2019
Sustainability
Report
1 of 92A message from our Chairman and CEO
I am pleased to welcome you to Edwards Lifesciences’ 2019 Sustainability Report. We are proud
that this report reflects upon the continued progress and commitment of Edwards to address and
respond to the needs of our stakeholders around the world. As we celebrate 20 years as an
independent company in 2020, we reflect upon the history of Edwards and the intentional way in
which we created a company focused on acting as a trusted, responsible partner. In 2000, we
created a foundational element for our company, our 
credo
 – which guides our values, spirit and
conscience – and our company 
aspirations
 – which are the goals that inspire our more than 14,000
talented global employees every day. Our credo and aspirations help us define our company’s strategic priorities and objectives. Our
sustainability strategy supports our business strategy. This complete integration has enabled us to deliver on our sustainability
commitments, while driving further growth and innovation for all our stakeholders.
As detailed in the sustainability report, we have set goals connected to each of our aspirations and measure our progress throughout the
year. I’m proud to share that in 2019 we met many of our environmental, social and governance 
goals
 in the areas of philanthropy, patient
engagement, ethics and compliance, environment, diversity and inclusion. Even more important, we have established new goals to
encourage our teams to strive to respond to the priority areas that matter most to our company and stakeholders. We continue to
sharpen the alignment of our goals to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) by focusing on those where we believe we can
have the greatest impact. In 2019, we focused on SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being; SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth;
and SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production.
We recognize that the global community is operating in a unique environment in 2020 as we work collectively to combat a global
pandemic. While few could have imagined facing a challenge so daunting as the global spread of COVID-19, it is inspiring to see how
Edwards’ employees and partners are responding to those in need. We are particularly grateful to our clinician partners and their
dedication to serving patients. We appreciate the strong leadership and brave commitment on the front lines responding to COVID-19.
We are committed to working together with our clinician partners, employees, governments and communities to do what we can to
address this global health crisis
.
It is an unprecedented situation such as this that provides a bold reminder of the impactful work of the global healthcare community. We
draw strength from our unwavering focus on providing life-enhancing and life-saving therapies for patients in need. We are proud to be
partners with physicians to provide tools and therapies for patients who are critically ill or impacted by structural heart disease, and to
work together to enable patient access and change the practice of medicine. We launched our “Reach for the Heart” campaign to
increase disease awareness in the U.S. We provided opportunities for many patient-employee connections across our global facilities,
listening and learning from their healthcare journeys. Our employees demonstrated their resolve and human kindness with community
involvement in many ways globally. For example, employees volunteered their time to create cloth masks and face shields and
supported their local food banks for children and families in need due to the closure of public schools and the economic impact of
business closures and social distancing.
We also continued to make positive progress in our global corporate giving efforts, including with our signature initiative, 
Every Heartbeat
Matters
. We are proud that, together with our global philanthropic partners, we met our goal of supporting the education, screening and
treatment of 1.5 million underserved people by 2020. We also initiated work with our partners on a new, more ambitious Every Heartbeat
Matters goal for the years ahead.
This year we again received 
recognition
 for our sustainability initiatives and while we are appreciative of these recent accomplishments,
there is still more work to do. We have recently engaged in an updated materiality assessment to ensure we are focusing on the
priorities that matter most to our stakeholders, and we continue to engage in regular stakeholder engagement to ensure the dialogue is
ongoing about our goals and initiatives. We endeavor to stay humble and to listen, and use this engagement as a way to hold our
leadership, employees and partners accountable for operating in a responsible, high-quality way.
Thank you for your partnership and support as we continue to pursue our goals and progress further in our sustainability journey. I am
proud of our strong team, community-minded employees and patient-focused culture. We know that when we act with purpose and as
trusted partners, we create a community unified in its mission to improve the quality of life around the world.
Michael A. Mussallem, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
2 of 92Edwards Lifesciences and COVID-19
While the full impact of COVID-19 on Edwards and our stakeholders will not be known for some time – and will certainly be discussed within
the 2020 sustainability report next year – it is important to acknowledge how Edwards’ commitments have been influenced or heightened by
the global pandemic.
The global response by Edwards’ clinician partners on the front lines of the evolving situation with COVID-19 has demonstrated strong
leadership and a brave commitment. At the same time, Edwards’ incredible employees each day have continued their work. At the outset of
the global spread of the virus, almost one-third of Edwards’ employees converted to remote work, transitioning our global office operations to
virtual platforms almost overnight. Thousands of Edwards’ manufacturing employees continued coming to the company’s facilities around the
world with extra safety precautions, to ensure the development, manufacture and delivery of our life-saving technologies to patients in more
than 100 countries. The unwavering commitment of our global manufacturing employees means that structural heart patients with urgent
needs have been able to receive treatment, and that the increasing number of critically ill patients have been able to be closely monitored at a
time when it was needed most. We also have teams providing their support in health care facilities around the world, living our Credo: Helping
Patients is Our Life’s Work, and Life is Now. In addition to sharing details about this response on our quarterly earnings call in April 2020,
Edwards’ CEO also discussed it with the local business publication, 
Orange County Business Journal
.
We are grateful to all of those in the global healthcare community responding to the needs of patients impacted by COVID-19. Edwards has
published 
two letters
 in response to the ongoing global pandemic to detail some of the steps the company has taken to support employees,
communities and patients, both in the short-term COVID response, and also to ensure the long-term resilience and sustainability of the
company. Our risk management and business continuity planning helped provide important foundations for how to approach our company
response related to COVID-19, but given the rapidly changing – and still changing – nature of what is happening around the world, it has been
critical for us to maintain agility and stay in constant communication with our employees throughout.
Edwards, like others, has taken many important steps to guard against the community spread of COVID-19. We have relied on trusted health
authorities, governments and local hospital policies to inform our decision-making. We implemented important measures at our facilities
worldwide to ensure the safety of our employees, while also continuing our critical work in providing life-saving technologies for patients. The
measures have included enhanced cleaning procedures, physical distancing in common areas at campuses, staggered work schedules and
flexible, remote schedules and providing personal protective equipment such as face coverings or face masks to our employees both at our
facilities and for those working in clinical settings.
For those employees who have been impacted by COVID, Edwards offers support in the form of a case manager who stays in close contact
with the employee to ensure their health needs are being addressed.
We also recognize the important role and impact of Edwards’ charitable partners in meeting both local and global community needs amidst
the pandemic. To respond to these needs, 
Edwards Lifesciences Foundation took action
 quickly to issue $1 million in emergency community
grants to partner organizations serving on the front lines of COVID-19 and providing safety net services such as financial assistance for food,
medication and rent to vulnerable communities where Edwards’ employees live and work around the world. Additionally, Edwards provided
donations of critical care technologies during this crisis to help underserved patients around the world.
3 of 92At our headquarters campus in Irvine, Calif., we continued the pay for our on-site café staff, even during periods where the numbers of
Edwards employees on campus did not require a full staff to prepare meals and some of the staff stayed home. As needs in our community to
address hunger became more evident, we engaged our café staff to prepare to-go meals for donation to local charitable organizations serving
the homeless and hungry. Between April and July 2020, Edwards provided more than 20,000 meals to organizations including Mercy House:
LINK, Mercy House: Costa Mesa Bridge Shelter and Illumination Foundation. 
The Orange County Register
 
provided additional information
 on
those receiving the meals. For those employees dining on campus, meals were provided free of charge or for a donation to the Second
Harvest Food Bank. We continue to stay closely connected to our charitable partners to understand other ways we can help our communities.
As the pandemic continues to impact healthcare worldwide, we have concern for many patients in the areas we serve, such as those affected
by heart valve disease, that are not getting treated. The reasons are varied and include fear of seeking treatment because of risk of COVID-19
in their communities, inability to get treated because procedures are being cancelled due to the strain on hospital resources or for personal
economic reasons, such as job loss or lack of insurance coverage. We know that COVID-19 is deadly and has created tremendous strain on
the health care system globally. But, sadly, we expect that because of this strain and associated treatment delays, some valve disease
patients will worsen and not survive the delay, given the deadly nature of these chronic conditions. This is a very difficult time for structural
heart patients and their doctors as they weigh the risk of COVID-19 versus the underlying progressive disease, and a number of organizations
have helped to provide information
 to educate them as they seek care. We are committed to working together with our clinician partners,
employees, governments and communities to do what we can to address this global health crisis.
We are fortunate that Edwards is a strong company and our priorities have been to focus on keeping our employees safe and helping patients
and customers in need, and we have been able to continue our patient-focused innovation work around the world. We have continued hiring for
our open positions globally and are focused on maintaining global supply because of the critical nature of our work. We are also 
working with
others in our industry
 to identify opportunities for us to work together to impact patient care and support the needs of smaller innovators in
medical technology. The dedication and passion of our employees is particularly admirable in this challenging time, and we are grateful for
their commitment to serving patients and their communities, affirming their dedication to our collective work for patients, improving and
enhancing lives.
4 of 92Sustainability report
Our approach
Welcome to Edwards Lifesciences’ 2019 Sustainability Report. While acting as a trusted partner in a responsible manner has always been a
key tenant at Edwards, we began formally reporting our sustainability progress in 2014. In 2019, we met many of our sustainability goals,
conducted a new materiality assessment, created new goals and built on our reporting. These actions reflect the integration of sustainability
into our business’ core strategy and our belief that sustainability is essential to long-term growth. This report has been prepared in accordance
with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (Core option). This report covers all global Edwards subsidiaries.
Our 
Credo
 and Aspirations help us define our annual strategic priorities and objectives and guide company culture. The Edwards Aspirations
represent the relationships and stakeholders that are important to the success of our company as we serve patients fighting cardiovascular
disease around the world, and they guide our sustainability efforts. Each Aspiration describes a theme that relates to our business
environment and our stakeholders. The table below shows alignment between our Aspirations and our sustainability efforts.
In 2015, the United Nations (UN) passed a resolution establishing 
17 
Sustainable Development Goals
 (SDGs) with the intent of creating a
more sustainable world by 2030. As part of the resolution, the UN identified a formal series of 230 targets and indicators for all nation-states in
order to demonstrate progress toward the goals. In 2019, we re-evaluated the connection between our sustainability targets and the SDGs.
We assessed the targets and indicators for each of the 17 goals and refocused our efforts on the three SDGs where we believe we can have
the most impact:
Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being - Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth - Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth,
employment and 
decent work for all
Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production - Ensure sustainable consumption and production
patterns
Through our business activities and philanthropic efforts, we believe Edwards can contribute meaningfully to these three goals, as illustrated in
the visual depiction below.
GRI 102-12, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47, GRI 102-54  
5 of 92Our aspirations
 
met    
 in progress    
 not met
Packaging lifecycle assessment and improvement to reduce 15% packaging waste for targeted high volume
commercial products by 2020
Transforming
patient lives with
breakthrough
medical
technologies
Edwards is driven by a passion to help patients, partnering with 
clinicians to develop
innovative technologies in the areas of 
structural heart disease
 and critical care
monitoring. We put 
patients first, working to produce better technologies that enable
better outcomes for patients.
Current sustainability targets
Remove barriers along the patient journey to
continuously increase treatment rates 
for all
indicated severe aortic stenosis patients
Ensure that our therapies are addressing the
needs of patients through an 
increasingly
collaborative patient engagement process
Empower and activate patients by
meaningfully increasing awareness of
structural 
heart disease globally by 2024
Excelling as a
trusted partner
through
distinguished
quality and
integrity
Edwards conducts business ethically and with integrity, providing the 
highest level of care
and respect for our partners. We are committed to the quality and safety of 
our products,
driving innovation and promoting resource efficiency.
Current sustainability targets
Drive continuous improvement efforts to
ensure no patient safety-related class I
product removals
100% of managers to complete learning
module on ethical decision making by 2020
6 of 92No significant disruption of product availability
Roll-out Sustainability Program and Review
process to strategic suppliers by 2020 
and
key suppliers by 2021, assessing current
plans and improving on any identified
opportunities
Achieve a 35% reduction in recordable injury
rates by 2025
Implement an Occupational Health & Safety
Management System consistent with ISO
14001 and 45001 standards at all of our
manufacturing locations by 2023
New sustainability targets
By 2021, aim to achieve information security
and privacy certifications for our 
digital and
connected medical device platforms:
UL2900 certification for our new
medical devices release, such as next
generation HemoSphere monitoring
platform
HITRUST certification for our upcoming
Cloud portal that will process 
regulated
patient health information of our
customers
Current sustainability targets
Fostering an
inclusive culture
where all
employees grow
and thrive
Fulfilling our mission to help patients requires a strong, healthy and 
talented workforce.
Edwards recruits top candidates, offers employee wellness and engagement 
programs
and fosters a diverse and inclusive culture to help employees deliver their best.
7 of 92Current sustainability targets
By 2022, all global employees to have
completed unconscious bias training, and new
hires within six months of employment
Year-over-year positive trending globally of
women in leadership positions
Year-over-year positive trending in U.S.
ethnically diverse talent in leadership 
positions
Annual top talent retention resulting in
voluntary turnover less than high 
performing
benchmarks
Highly engaged workforce that exceeds
industry, region and high performing
benchmarks for employee engagement
By 2020, expand Edwards employee
engagement with patients:
through interactive opportunities with at
least one patient in global 
offices with
>50 employees, increasing year-over-
year
through exposure to patient stories
reaching all employees annually
Passionate
engagement that
strengthens our
communities
Edwards is committed to strengthening the health of our global 
communities. With
patients as our top priority, we work to increase access to our innovative 
therapies,
improve efficiency of healthcare processes, improve awareness of and treatment for 
life-
threatening diseases and provide opportunities for our employees to give back.
8 of 92Current sustainability targets
Drive Edwards aspiration of 100% 
global
employee participation in charitable activity
with participation goals of 
100% for the SLT
and an increase in global participation as
measured by the Employee 
Engagement
survey
Packaging lifecycle assessment and
improvement to reduce 15% packaging waste
for 
targeted high volume commercial products
by 2020
By end of 2021, reduce air miles traveled by 3
million vs 2018 baseline
Every Heartbeat Matters will improve the lives
of 2.5 million more underserved 
structural
heart and critical care patients by the end of
2025
New sustainability targets
Electronic instructions-for-use roll-out to all
business regions by end of 2022
Supplier Code of Conduct policy development
and implementation by 2021
By 2025, reduce our environmental footprint
according to Edwards’ EHS plan
10% reduction of total energy usage
9 of 9235% 
renewable energy
10% reduction in water intake
10% reduction in total waste generation
(solid and 
hazardous)
10% reduction in greenhouse gas
emissions
Current sustainability targets
Delivering
exceptional
shareholder value
Through all of our sustainability initiatives and delivering on our 
focused company
strategy, Edwards positions our company for long-term profitability that will 
benefit our
stakeholders and also our bottom line.
Current sustainability targets
Integrate sustainability factors in the strategic
planning process annually
10 of 92Include sustainability targets in the CEO’s
performance goals annually
Current sustainability targets
To guide our strategy and disclosure, in 2015, we established a Sustainability Council comprising senior leaders from across the organization.
Each Council member has a sponsor from the Edwards Leadership Team who oversees the implementation of the sustainability strategy
within their part of the company. In 2016, we conducted our first materiality assessment, which allowed us to prioritize our management of
environmental, social and governance topics. We then set sustainability targets for each of our most material topics, which align naturally with
our Aspirations. Our team continues to assess and report progress on our targets annually.
In 2018, we consolidated several of our material topics to group those with similar management approaches. For instance, Employee
Recruitment, Engagement and Retention; Workplace Health and Safety; and Diversity and Inclusion are now grouped into Talent Management.
In 2019, we conducted a refresh materiality assessment using the Six Capitals of Integrated Reporting in prioritization of the identified material
topics. More information on our materiality refresh can be found on our 
Materiality 
& Stakeholder Engagement
 section. We also evaluated the
SASB Standards for Medical Equipment and Supplies and have incorporated certain metrics in this year’s report. Please see our Content
Index for more details.
We use 
Governance 
Maps
 to outline our accountability process for each material topic in one overarching, interactive graphic. In our 2018
report, we added Supply Chain Management and Talent Management to the map, which now covers seven material topics:
Ethics & Compliance
Product Safety & Quality
Edwards Lifesciences Foundation
Corporate Governance
Environment, Health & Safety
Supply Chain Management
Talent Management
11 of 92Sustainability report
Organizational profile
Edwards Lifesciences is the global leader in patient-focused medical innovations for structural heart disease and critical care monitoring. We
are driven by a passion for patients and are dedicated to improving and enhancing lives through partnerships with clinicians and stakeholders
across the global healthcare landscape.
Since Edwards was established as an independent public company in 2000, the company has grown to more than $4 billion in revenue with
product sales in more than 100 countries. We are dedicated to the development of medical technologies that improve both patient outcomes
and speed of recovery. Our technologies include transcatheter and surgical heart valve therapies and critical care technologies, such as:
Every year, Edwards Lifesciences creates new products with the power to save lives. In 2019, Edwards Lifesciences received several product
approvals for commercialization:
Edwards has continued our focus on innovation. Please see our 
Newsroom
 for updates on our latest innovations and approvals.
Also in 2019, we 
acquired CAS Medical Systems
 (CASMED), a medical technology company dedicated to non-invasive monitoring of brain
and tissue oxygenation.
GRI 102-1, GRI 102-2, GRI 102-3, GRI 102-4, GRI 102-5, GRI 102-6, GRI 102-7, GRI 102-8, GRI 102-41, GRI 102-9,
GRI 102-10, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 201-1, GRI 407-1  
Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement
 – Edwards’ transcatheter aortic heart valve replacement
technologies are designed to treat heart valve disease using catheter-based approaches that enable a
shorter procedure with excellent clinical outcomes, including a more rapid recovery, than open-heart
surgery
Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid Therapies
 – Edwards makes significant investments in the
development of catheter-based therapy options designed to treat highly prevalent mitral and tricuspid
valve diseases for the diverse group of patients who currently have limited or no effective treatment
options.
Surgical Structural Heart
 – Edwards is committed to being the partner of choice for cardiac surgeons
and helping transform patients’ lives by advancing surgical structural heart innovations. We are the
world’s leading manufacturer of tissue heart valves and surgical heart valve repair therapies, which are
used to treat a patient’s diseased heart valve.
Critical Care
 – Edwards is a world leader in hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a
patient’s heart function and fluid status across care settings. Our complete hemodynamic portfolio helps
clinicians make proactive clinical decisions and plays an important role in enhancing patient recovery.
Edwards 
SAPIEN 3 TAVR receives FDA approval for low-risk patients
 in the U.S.
Received 
CE Mark to expand use of the Edwards SAPIEN 3
 transcatheter heart valve for treatment of
low risk patients in Europe
Edwards 
PASCAL transcatheter system receives CE Mark
 for use in Europe
12 of 922019 sales by product line
2019 sales by geographic region
Edwards is incorporated in Delaware and headquartered in Irvine, California, USA. We operate major manufacturing facilities in the United
States, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica and Singapore. We also have a significant employee presence at regional locations
in Europe, Canada and Japan, with an office in Ireland where a manufacturing facility is under construction, expected to open in 2021 and
employ approximately 600 people. None of our North American employees are represented by a labor union. In various countries outside of
North America, we interact with trade unions and work councils that represent a limited number of employees.
Edwards by the numbers
Total Number of Operations
65 (7 manufacturing locations)
Total Number of Employees as of December 31, 2019
(Including Part-Time and Temporary Employees)
13,895
Global Employees by Gender in 2019
60% Female
40% Male
Transcatheter Heart Valve Therapy
Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid
Surgical Structural Heart
Critical Care
United States
Europe
Japan
Rest of World
13 of 92Note: In 2018, we announced the planned construction of a new manufacturing facility in Ireland expected to be complete in 2021.
Customers
Across the U.S. and international markets, our customers include physicians, medical professionals, hospitals and group purchasing
organizations. In 2019, we derived 58 percent of our sales from the U.S. and 42 percent from international markets.
Suppliers
Our primary direct materials suppliers provide:
We source about 80 percent of our manufacturing materials spend from preferred and strategic suppliers. We only add suppliers if new
technology or capability is required for our business and not already present in our supplier base. Recently, we added between five and eight
new direct materials suppliers per year. New suppliers undergo a thorough due diligence process, including screening for adverse conditions
or events. We prioritize partnerships with suppliers headquartered in countries that enforce stringent standards and regulations to help reduce
risks of non-compliance in our supply chain. For example, we source bovine pericardial tissue exclusively from the U.S. and Australia. Our
largest indirect suppliers provide telecommunication services, food and catering services, office supplies, uniforms, lab products and cloud
software. Please see our topic disclosures and governance map for more on Supply Chain management.
Extruded tubing and extrusions
Packaging materials
Electronic assemblies and cables
Chemicals
Contract manufacturing
Bovine pericardial tissue
Precision machining components
Guidewires
Injection molded components
14 of 92Governance Map
We use Governance Maps to show the process used to establish accountability for each material topic in one overarching, interactive graphic.
Each section describes who is involved when we set, execute and communicate our strategy for each of our material topics.
15 of 92Sustainability report
Materiality & stakeholder engagement
Edwards’ five Aspirations guide us in our work to positively impact patient lives. In 2015, we determined the topics covered in our report
through a comprehensive materiality assessment that engaged more than 60 internal and external stakeholders. In 2019, our Sustainability
Council completed our second materiality assessment to identify the most important topics for achieving our sustainability commitments. We
leveraged artificial intelligence (AI) and big data software and engaged 13 stakeholder groups through nearly 50 interviews. We also conducted
surveys for employees and patients and received nearly 1,000 responses. Our analysis combined both AI and human expertise to provide a
comprehensive materiality assessment, providing confidence in the results and insight into the areas of importance and emphasis. Our
materiality process:
Note: To learn more about our original materiality process, please see our 
2017 Sustainability Report
.
We had several objectives for the assessment refresh:
Learn more about the results of our assessment, and our business, by clicking through the tabs and topics in the matrix below.
GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47  
Update our value chain to reflect the evolution of the business and strategy
Further integration of sustainability factors into the strategic planning process to ensure our sustainability
goals continue to closely align with our business strategy
Collect evidence of Edwards’ value creation through the lens of sustainability
Determine sustainability strategy, key indicators and reporting practices
16 of 92Materiality matrix
 
Value Chain
Edwards Lifesciences’ 
Credo
 reinforces our dedication to providing innovative solutions for people fighting cardiovascular disease. We believe
that the management of our material topics supports this mission through our 
aspiration
 to Create Exceptional Shareholder Value. For each
topic, Edwards also considers where impacts directly occur throughout our manufacturing processes, geographic footprint and stakeholder
relationships. The map demonstrating our understanding of our impacts across our value chain can be found on pages 18 and 19 in our 
2017
Sustainability Report
.
17 of 92Sustainability report
Governance
Edwards Lifesciences is committed to responsible and ethical business practices. The Governance section of our 2019 Sustainability Report
contains our management approach and annual performance for the following material topics:
Ethics & Compliance
Corporate Governance
18 of 92Sustainability report
Ethics & compliance
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to manage ethics, compliance, corruption and bribery supports our 
aspirations
 of excelling as a trusted partner
through distinguished quality and integrity and delivering exceptional shareholder value.
Definition
Driving a culture of integrity that promotes ethical behavior at Edwards through training, policies and compliance with our code of conduct, as
well as relevant laws and regulations. Enacting management practices and policies to prevent corruption and bribery at Edwards, by our
employees or our third-party vendors.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 102-13, GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17, GRI 205-1, SASB HC-MS-270a.2  
Management approach
At Edwards Lifesciences, our commitment to ethics shapes all that we do. In ethics and compliance, we are committed to building our
success from a foundation of integrity and are dedicated to doing the right thing. In our work to develop lifesaving therapies, our leaders and
employees know every decision matters. We hold our global team accountable to the same high ethical standards, strengthening Edwards’
reputation as a trusted partner.
Governance map
19 of 92Global integrity program
Compliance and ethics are a part of who we are and what we do. Our Board of Directors and senior leadership are committed to maintaining
our ethical culture and give their unwavering support to our Global Integrity Program. We take pride in conducting our business with honesty,
openness and fairness and in accordance with legal standards and the highest ethical principles because it is the right thing to do. As we
continue to transform patient care through the development of breakthrough medical technologies, we remain committed to the strongest
business practice standards. Our Credo guides our actions as trusted partners with our customers, patients and colleagues.
Our Global Integrity Program is driven by our Corporate Responsibility group where we strive to embed compliance in every aspect of our
business. The Program includes written policies, communication, employee training, prompt investigations and root cause analysis,
appropriate discipline and remedial action, periodic risk assessments and audits and monitoring to achieve compliance. We measure the
effectiveness of our program in many ways, including cultural surveys, metrics on investigations, monitoring results, timeliness of remediation
activities, training effectiveness, distributor engagement and diligence results, amounts and types of interactions with customers and violations
of policies.
Global business practice standards
Edwards strives to be transparent regarding our standards for ethics and compliance. Our Global Business Practice Standards' or “
Titanium
Book
”, outlines ethical behaviors to which all employees, members of the Board of Directors, distributors and other key third-party contractors
must adhere. These Standards cover the following topics, among others:
To ensure effective implementation of our Standards, we expect employees and managers to engage in ethical behavior, ask questions when
in doubt and report wrongdoing.
Leadership training
We believe a culture of integrity exists only when each employee makes ethical decisions in their daily interactions. We have a goal for 100
percent of managers to complete a learning module on ethical decision making by 2020.
All professional employees must complete an annual online certification, reinforcing their commitment to the Standards. We conduct this
process in multiple languages, including Chinese, English, French, German, Japanese, Portuguese and Spanish. In conjunction with the
certification, we survey professional employees on topics such as fear of retaliation and whether they have reported misconduct. Our goal is to
ensure 100 percent of applicable employees certify to understanding and agree to comply with Edwards’ code of conduct on an annual basis.
Fraud
Corruption and bribery, including interactions with healthcare professionals and patients
Bidding, tenders and procurement
Sales and marketing practices
Interactions with patients, caregivers and patient organizations
Discrimination and other fair employment practices
Confidentiality of information, information security and privacy
Conflicts of interest
Antitrust/anti-competitive practices
Money-laundering and insider trading
Environment, health and safety
Product quality
Trade compliance
Employee and management responsibility
How to report misconduct
20 of 92Edwards integrity helpline
We aim to create a culture of trust in which all employees feel comfortable sharing their concerns. Hosted by a third party, the 
Edwards
Integrity Helpline
 is available 24/7 for Edwards employees around the world, as well as our third-party partners. Callers may choose to self-
identify or remain anonymous when reporting, where permitted by law. Our head of corporate investigations is immediately notified of all
reports to the helpline and opens an investigation based upon the concerns raised.
In addition to the helpline, we encourage employees to report issues to their managers, executive leadership team members and other
functional groups such as legal or human resources. They can also report concerns directly to the Ethics and Compliance team by email or
telephone. We treat all reports as confidential, promptly investigate any reports of misconduct and take appropriate disciplinary action,
including written warnings or dismissal. Edwards’ Board of Directors receives a quarterly briefing of all ethics-related reports and findings.
We store reports of alleged misconduct in a confidential global case management system. This system manages information for all aspects
of an investigation and allows us to analyze trends, recognize repeat offenders and modify our compliance program accordingly.
We strictly prohibit retaliation against any individual who reports a concern in good faith or participates in the company’s investigation. The
number of cases reported anonymously through the helpline in 2019 were significantly lower than the medical technology industry overall, as
reported by our independent third-party case management system provider. We maintain our goal to enhance Edwards’ culture of integrity,
where employees feel free to speak up, as measured by our annual compliance survey.
Interactions with healthcare professionals
The nature of our work means our employees regularly interact with healthcare professionals who help develop our products. Edwards has
long-held high standards for preventing corruption and bribery in connection with our external relationships so that these interactions remain
appropriate. We maintain policies governing employee and supplier relationships with healthcare professionals, including policies on meals,
gifts, entertainment, consulting, educational and research grants, discounts and rebates, and product training, among others. Edwards
prohibits facilitation payments, and we do not condone gifts or entertainment in pursuit of a business advantage. We detail these requirements
on pages 26-27 of our 
Global Business Practices Standards.
Edwards conducts business consistently in all countries. We require all employees, as well as agents acting on Edwards’ behalf, to adhere to
the following government regulations for preventing corruption:
Third-party and employee anti-corruption training
Edwards provides expanded due diligence and anti-corruption training to our global third-party sales intermediaries. We require certification
renewals to the Titanium Book and due diligence renewals every two to three years. We take time to get to know our sales intermediaries and
if we discover prior significant misconduct, we terminate the business relationship. A key principal for the company must certify compliance
with our distributor anti-corruption compliance policy.
Our corruption risk assessment covers 100 percent of our operations. Our Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Guidelines assist employees and
distributors in recognizing potential warning signs when dealing with customers and other third parties making informed and ethical decisions.
We conduct trainings on these guidelines for our distributors and require all professional employees to certify compliance online.
The U.S. Foreign Corruption Practices Act
The U.K. Bribery Act
All applicable local and regional laws, including anti-corruption and anti-competition laws
21 of 92Compliance with industry codes
Edwards’ collaboration with physicians is essential for the continued innovation of our technologies and therapies. We align our internal
standards for ethics with country-specific industry codes of conduct, provide annual and ad hoc training to relevant employees and require
adherence by all of our representatives. We are members of the following organizations and adhere to their respective codes:
Sales and marketing practices
We value our reputation as a leading company whose products and services are desired for their features, innovation, quality and value. We
honestly describe our products and services and take care to ensure that all promotional materials and communications are accurate,
balanced, substantiated and compliant with legal and regulatory standards. We ensure that our marketing practices are not off-label and do
not: mislead or omit important facts, promote a product before it is approved, promote a product for use other than for which it was approved
or unfairly criticize a competitor’s products or services.
Financial relationships with physicians
Collaboration with medical experts provides important value to our research and development efforts. Physicians can offer insight from the
user’s perspective and provide advice on product improvements that keep us at the forefront of innovation. Our most significant risks related to
corruption occur through our financial relationships with physicians. It is important that these relationships do not bias, or appear to bias, our
customers when making purchasing decisions regarding our products.
Edwards is transparent about the nature of these relationships and their benefit to all. In 2008, Edwards became the first of our peer group to
voluntarily and publicly disclose payments to physicians in the United States. Now, in accordance with the U.S. Affordable Care Act, we report
all financial relationships with U.S. physicians and teaching hospitals through the 
Open Payments
 system on the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services’ website.
AdvaMed (U.S., India and China)
ABRAIDI (Brazil)
Medtech Canada
Mecomed (Middle East & Africa)
AMID (Mexico)
KMDIA- Korea Medical Devices Industry Association
MTANZ-Medical Technology Association of New Zealand
TAMTA (Taiwan)
MDDSC (Vietnam)
MedTech Europe (Europe)
Abimed (Brazil)
ANDI-Asociacion Nacional de Empresarios de Colombia
The Japan Federation of Medical Devices Association
MMDA (Malaysia)
MTAA-Medical Technology Association of Australia
THAIMED-Thai Medical Device Technology Industry Association
Medical Council of India
MTIG-Singapore Medical Technology Industry Group (Singapore)
22 of 92Reporting requirements vary by country and by nature of the transactions. Edwards reports all grants that it funds in Europe pursuant to the
MedTech Europe Code and also reports certain transactions at the state or country level in several regions:
Massachusetts – pursuant to law since 2011
Vermont – pursuant to law since 2012
France – pursuant to law since 2013
Denmark – pursuant to law since 2014
Japan – voluntary report to meet industry code of conduct since 2014 and pursuant to Clinical Trials Act
since 2019
Romania – pursuant to law since 2015
Australia – pursuant to industry association request in 2016
Connecticut – pursuant to law since 2017
Netherlands – pursuant to law since 2017
Belgium – pursuant to law since 2017
Portugal – pursuant to law since 2017
Minas Gerais, Brazil – pursuant to law since 2018
South Korea – pursuant to law since 2018
Israel – pursuant to law since 2018
Saudi Arabia – pursuant to law since 2018
Columbia – pursuant to law since 2019
Italy – pursuant to industry code since 2019
23 of 92Annual performance
Global business practice standards
We require all professional employees to complete an annual online certification reinforcing their commitment to the Business Practice
Standards. In 2019, we surveyed and sought certification for almost 8,000 professional employees, representing 57 percent of our total
population. Our compliance team conducted the annual code of conduct certification and survey for all professional employees in seven
different languages and followed up in conjunction with executive leaders, resulting in 99.6 percent participation and certification. We also
revised and updated our Titanium Book online training module emphasizing areas of key risk for Edwards.
Also, in 2019, we held our seventh annual Titanium Day at more than 20 sites worldwide. Our annual Titanium Day refers to our 
Titanium
Book
, which is available in multiple languages including English, Vietnamese, Korean, Simplified Chinese, French, Japanese, Portuguese and
Spanish. On Titanium Day, we engage employees across geographies, job descriptions and cultures to reinforce Edwards’ Credo and culture
of integrity through games, activities and quizzes about ethics and integrity. We took the opportunity on this day to distribute and create
awareness about the revised Standards. We also celebrated our third consecutive recognition as one of the 
World’s Most Ethical Companies
.
Leadership training
In 2019, we also developed an online learning module on ethical decision-making for managers, rolling out the training in the U.S. in early 2020.
This represents significant progress toward our goal of implementing online ethical decision-making training for all managers by 2020.
Global integrity program
Every year we identify means by which we can improve our compliance program. In 2019, we revised several of our policies regarding
interactions with healthcare professionals to create simplified global standards and develop employee self-help tools to promote their use.
Edwards established detailed and globally consistent disciplinary guidelines to evaluate misconduct and violations of our Titanium Book,
policies or law. These guidelines help to ensure consistent enforcement and corrective actions around the world. In addition, we began
developing a data analytics and visualization platform focused on our customer relationship expenditures to better identify, understand and
mitigate our risk. This platform improves our ability to accurately and efficiently monitor numerous transactions and data sources. We also
partnered with our finance and IT teams to further strengthen data governance around collection of our financial transactions with global
healthcare professionals.
In 2019, we provided our fourth response to a robust third-party survey and assessment firm: The Ethisphere® Institute. The Ethisphere
survey reflects leading and current best practices for corporate ethical standards and offers companies a comprehensive look at their
programs. We confidentially responded to approximately 200 questions and provided significant supporting documentation on topics related to
corporate governance, compliance and ethics, leadership and sustainability. In early 2020, we were honored to be recognized for the fourth
consecutive year as one of the 
World’s Most Ethical Companies
.
Corruption and bribery
Edwards continually improves our governance and policies on corruption and bribery. In 2019, we provided training on the Titanium Book to
100 percent of new hires and all distributors were required to read, understand and commit to comply with the Titanium Book standards. We
also trained our distributors and employees in customer-facing roles on industry codes of conduct and healthcare compliance policies. We
completed due diligence on new and contractually renewed distributors worldwide and conducted risk-based monitoring of our distributors,
including site visits, interviews and review of books and records. We also continued to enhance our global risk-based due diligence process
for all other third-party vendors and service providers on a variety of risk-based topics. We conducted a biennial risk assessment and used
those findings to inform a global risk and action plan.
24 of 92Sustainability report
Corporate governance
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to improve corporate governance supports our aspiration of delivering exceptional shareholder value.
Definition
Corporate governance is the system of rules, practices and policies by which a company is directed and controlled. It is important to maintain
accurate, clear, and accessible transparency in corporate decision-making, organizational process and company operations to employees,
stakeholders, shareholders and the general public. Good corporate governance involves balancing the interests of a company’s many
stakeholders, such as shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, governments, the community and, for Edwards, a vital stakeholder
group: patients. Good corporate governance also involves promoting ethical and sustainable practices for the benefit of all stakeholders,
including proxy access, board diversity, fair executive compensation and accountability. Using corporate governance leadership structures and
behavior to influence and give voice to the corporate culture.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 102-18, GRI 102-20, GRI 102-22, GRI 102-23, GRI 102-24, GRI 102-35, GRI
102-37, GRI 102-38  
Management approach
Through our corporate governance practices, the Board of Directors and management create a responsible organization from the top, setting
the tone of our culture and supporting our strong reputation. This begins with our Chairman and CEO, who regularly meets with key
stakeholders including investors, customers, patients, employees and legislators, to discuss their needs and share our progress. Our Board
of Directors and management strive to implement policies and processes that promote ethical and sustainable corporate governance
practices for the benefit of all stakeholders. Our governance practices guide us as we grow, so that our leaders’ values align with those of our
company and our unique, patient-focused culture. Our CEO has a goal to include sustainability targets in his performance goals annually.
Governance map
25 of 92Our board of directors
A talented and knowledgeable team of directors oversees our organization. Our Board guidelines outline expectations for Board service that
demonstrate our commitment to ethical and effective corporate governance. These guidelines cover topics such as:
Our Board members share responsibility for oversight of the development of corporate strategy, financial and operational risk, information
security and cybersecurity, among other matters.
At Edwards, we always look to refresh our company and Board leadership. Our Board strives to maintain a highly independent, balanced and
diverse set of directors that collectively possess the expertise to ensure effective oversight of management. In 2019, Board independence was
88 percent, 38 percent of members were women, the average age of our members was 64 years and the average tenure was 7 years. The
independent directors evaluate the Board’s leadership structure on a regular basis to ensure that the approach continues to provide
independent oversight of the Company and serves the best interests of stockholders.
Our Chief Executive Officer also serves as the Chairman of the Board, and our Board believes this has been and continues to be an effective
approach for our Company. Edwards has experienced strong financial and operational growth over its 20 years as a public company, most
recently providing a cumulative TSR of 266 percent to stockholders from 2014 to 2019. Edwards’ 
2020 Proxy Statement
 further describes our
corporate governance policies and practices for shareholders.
Our Board has established two committees:
1.
 
Audit Committee
 – assists our Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities relating to:
2.
 
Compensation and Governance Committee
 – is responsible for:
The Compensation Committee maintains formal criteria for selecting director nominees who will best serve the interests of Edwards and its
Board size and composition
Director selection and qualification
Director responsibilities and operation of the Board
Responsibilities of Board committees
Board oversight for strategic planning and fiduciary responsibility
Director compensation
Process for performance evaluations
The integrity of the Company’s financial statements;
Compliance with the Company’s code of conduct and ethical standards, as well as legal and regulatory
requirements;
Enterprise-wide risk management practices, including the consideration of macro trends such as climate
change.
Determining the compensation of executive officers and recommending to our Board the compensation
of independent directors;
Overseeing management of succession planning, attraction and retention of talent, and risks related to
the design of executive compensation programs and arrangements;
Developing and recommending to the Board corporate governance guidelines for the Company;
Identifying, evaluating and recommending individuals qualified to be directors to the Board; and
Overseeing the evaluation of the Board and management.
26 of 92The Compensation Committee maintains formal criteria for selecting director nominees who will best serve the interests of Edwards and its
stakeholders. These written membership criteria state that Edwards “seeks a board with diversity of background among its members,
including diversity of experience, gender, race, ethnic or national origin and age.” Discussions have also included reviews of current director
skills against an established skills matrix and consideration of each director’s retirement horizon, as well as the Board’s self-evaluation and
peer evaluation processes. These criteria are more fully described on page 6 of the 
2020 Proxy Statement
.
Visit our 
Corporate Governance
 page to find the written charters, including a description of the full responsibilities of the committees.
Every year, the Board and each of the executive officers listed in the Proxy complete a questionnaire disclosing any other board memberships,
public and private, for the last five years and stock ownership, both their own and those owned by family members. The disclosure and
assessment of potential conflicts of interest arising from related persons transactions is described on page 79 of the 
2020 Proxy Statement
.
Our Board and our Executive Leadership Team prioritize diversity and inclusion. We consider diversity critical to our mission of transforming
patient care through medical breakthroughs. Our dedication and commitment to diversity and inclusion starts with our leaders and is visible
throughout Edwards. Our leaders regularly review internal activities to ensure that they foster a culture that actively and consistently values
diversity. Please see our 
Talent Management
 section for more information.
CEO pay ratio
Edwards believes incentive-based executive compensation programs can mitigate risks and foster long-term value creation and sustainable
growth. We design our compensation programs to align with the interests of our shareholders. Pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, our Proxy Statement contains the ratio of the total annual compensation of our CEO to the median of the total annual
compensation of all of our employees (excluding our CEO), which is reported in the annual performance section of this report. Our 
Proxy
Statement
 specifies our methodology for calculating this figure.
Governance for sustainability
Our Board’s Compensation and Governance Committee maintains formal oversight responsibilities for Edwards’ sustainability principles and
has regular discussions on our progress at meetings of our Board. Our Chairman and CEO also has performance management objectives for
improving our sustainability strategy, metrics and disclosures. A cross-functional Sustainability Council develops and drives the
implementation of these initiatives using a robust management framework. Led by our Chief Responsibility Officer, the Council comprises
leaders from functions across the organization.
Council members represent their areas of responsibility and collaborate to identify priorities, set goals and improve performance. They meet
regularly to review Edwards’ progress and develop implementation strategies. Our Chief Responsibility Officer reports on the Council’s
activities to our Board’s Compensation and Governance Committee, and to our Executive Leadership Team.
Enterprise Risk Management
Enterprise risk is assessed and prioritized using quantitative and qualitative inputs on multiple key dimensions, including:
Our strategic planning process summarizes key areas of strategic risk. Our Enterprise Risk Council reviews and prioritizes our top risks
quarterly and reviews updates provided to the Board and management. For each regularly scheduled board meeting, enterprise risk is
discussed to inform the Board on the latest posture of key risks. We have a strong business continuity process with standardized plans
across global manufacturing sites and routine exercises to test readiness. We have an agile crisis management process that leverages
insight and leadership from an experienced and cohesive management team. Please see our 
Governance Map
 for more details.
Patient Safety
Business and Financial metrics
Operational risks (disruptive events)
Reputation/Brand
Legal/Regulatory
Talent/Employee wellness
27 of 92Annually, and as needed, the Board’s Audit Committee, the CFO and Vice President of Enterprise Risk Management consider various potential
risks to the company, including those related to financial reporting, product development, continuity of operations, regulatory compliance,
succession planning, physical facilities and other topics.
Edwards is aware that changing weather patterns may cause business interruptions. In response, we incorporate the potential impact of
floods, wildfires and other weather events into our assessments. We work with our insurance provider to ensure our global facilities have
appropriate weather damage-prevention features, emergency response systems and business recovery processes. We continue to review
and assess the risk factors outlined in the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures for material relevance to Edwards and, where
needed, to shape appropriate mitigation strategies. For more information, please see “Risk Factors” in our 
Annual Report
 and “Board Role in
Risk Oversight” in our 
Proxy Statement
.
Cybersecurity
Our Information Security team, overseen by the Chief Information Officer, works to maintain best-in-class cyber and information security
practices with the objective of strengthening cyber resiliency. The team operates our Information Security Program, which follows the
principles of industry standards such as the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, ISO 27002 Standard, CIS Framework, SANS Top 20 Controls
and OWASP Top 10, among others. These frameworks allow us to apply our priorities in a consistent and risk-based manner. We leverage
these frameworks to ensure security controls aligned with best practices are consistently deployed across the business. Due to Edwards’
global presence, we must navigate regional expectations to ensure secure business continuity.
To prepare for potential cybersecurity incidents we maintain both a business continuity plan and cyber incident response plan with formalized
workflows, playbooks and simulation exercises that are conducted every year and involve our CEO. We also engage external partners to
conduct various audits and tests on our IT infrastructure to proactively identify potential vulnerabilities.
The Information Security team is an affiliated member and active contributor to improvements in the information security industry through the
following Information Security Committees:
We aim to achieve the following information security and privacy certifications for our digital and connected medical device platforms:
Edwards works to further strengthen our response and recovery mechanisms as a part of our cyber resiliency strategy.
Our Information Security policies are published in an employee handbook and on our web portal. Every new employee receives these policies
and Edwards conducts regular information security awareness and training campaigns. We also provide 
communication hotlines
 for
employees and external users to report any security incidents they see and escalate them right away. In addition, we provide 
product security
disclosures
 and contact information to report any product vulnerabilities.
Respecting the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
Edwards Lifesciences respects the privacy rights of everyone who interacts with us and we are committed to compliance with applicable
privacy and data protection requirements.
Privacy
Edwards Lifesciences does not sell or otherwise provide personal information to third parties for the third parties’ marketing purposes. For
more information, please see our 
Privacy Statement
.
National Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center (NH-ISAC)
Medical Device Innovation, Safety and Security (MDISS)
Advanced Med Tech (AdvaMed) Security Group
UL2900 certification
 for our new medical devices release, such as next generation Hemosphere
monitoring platform.
HITRUST certification
 for our upcoming Cloud portal that will process regulated patient health
information of our customers and patients.
28 of 92Annual performance
Edwards continually strengthens our governance structures to promote business success and drive our culture of responsibility.
Board of directors
As of 2019, the Board added five new directors over the prior six years. In July 2020, a new director was added increasing the board to nine
directors. These additions are the result of a thoughtful process that has involved the participation of all directors and occasionally an executive
search firm to assist in evaluating candidates. This process is designed to ensure that our Board benefits from fresh perspectives, diversity of
thought and a collective skillset that is aligned with the needs of our business. Most recently we saw the appointment of a new Lead
Independent Director and the election of a new director to Board. For more information, please see our Annual Meeting Updates press release.
With patients as a vital stakeholder, our Board takes special interest in patient engagement. In 2019, the Board attended the launch event for
Every Heartbeat Matters where they met with patients and Edwards Foundation partners. During select Board meetings, our directors meet
with patients who have been treated with our products, and Board members have toured hospitals to meet with physicians to discuss their
experiences with Edwards and gain insight into how Edwards can work to meet their challenges.
Engaging our shareholders
Throughout 2019, we continued our stakeholder engagement practices with our shareholders and incorporated feedback into our decision-
making processes. For information on Edwards’ engagement with shareholders please see our 
Proxy Statement
. Additional information about
Edwards’ corporate governance practices can be found in our 
Bylaws
, 
Corporate Governance Guidelines
 and the 
Charters of the Audit
Committee and the Compensation and Governance Committee
.
Status of pay-for-performance, executive compensation and CEO pay
ratio
In 2019, approximately 89 percent of the total direct compensation of our CEO, and an average of 74 percent of the total direct compensation
of our other Named Executive Officers, was performance-based. For more information, please see our 
2020 Proxy Statement
.
Based on SEC rules for CEO pay ratio disclosure and applying the methodology described on page 59 of the 
Proxy Statement
, we determined
that our CEO’s total compensation for 2019 was $11,520,973, and the median of the total 2019 compensation of all of our employees
(excluding our CEO) was $64,517. Accordingly, we estimate the ratio of our CEO’s total compensation for 2019 to the median of the total 2019
compensation of all our employees (excluding our CEO) to be 179 to 1.
Governance for sustainability
We continue to align our sustainability efforts with our Aspirations and patient-focused innovation strategy. Our corporate Aspirations are taken
very seriously throughout the organization. In 2019, we met our goal to integrate sustainability factors in the annual strategic planning process.
Also in 2019, we conducted a comprehensive materiality assessment refresh through engagement with internal and external stakeholders,
including the Board, which identified the sustainability topics that matter most to our stakeholders. This materiality refresh is discussed further
in the 
Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement
 section. Annually, the Chief Responsibility Officer provides the members of the Compensation
and Corporate Governance Committee with past and proposed future goals and solicits input. Part of the new director orientation program is
an introduction to the Chief Responsibility Officer who presents on both compliance and corporate sustainability.
Enterprise risk management
Edwards’ Board of Directors and ELT continually refine and strengthen our ERM process, aiming to better identify emerging risks and
minimize impact. In 2019, we made strides to integrate sustainability factors into our ERM process by incorporating ESG considerations into
our Strategic Planning process. The Strategic Planning process, in part, considers risks and opportunities to Edwards on a seven-year time
horizon. Incorporating sustainability factors into our risk assessments provides Edwards with a more robust understanding of potential risks to
the company. For more information, please see “Risk Factors” in our 
Annual Report
.
29 of 92Cybersecurity
Edwards experienced no cyber breaches or incidents of material impact in 2019. Attempted cyber-attacks on our network were detected and
responded to in a timely manner, resulting in no impact to the business.
Looking forward, our Information Security Program is focused on implementing new digital products that are certified under HITRUST and
UL2900 certifications. We are also focused on further building cyber resiliency throughout our value chain. We are closely monitoring new and
emerging cybersecurity regulations around the world, assessing their potential impacts to our business and responding accordingly.
GDPR
In 2019, Edwards engaged a third party to help drive our GDPR approach and activities. Edwards also performed an internal and external audit
specific to GDPR requirements to ensure we are meeting industry standards. Our work included data mapping of all systems processing
personal data; enhancing our online Privacy Statement, and Privacy Notices for employees, vendors and more; enhancing our incident
response process to include GDPR reporting requirements; and conducting training for our employees.
30 of 92Edwards Lifesciences is dedicated to improving the lives of patients fighting cardiovascular disease and critical illness. The Patients section of
our 2019 Sustainability Report contains our management approach and annual performance for the following material topics:
Sustainability report
Patients
Access to Healthcare
Patient Experience & Voice
31 of 92Sustainability report
Access to healthcare
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to improve access to healthcare supports our 
Aspirations
 of transforming patient lives with breakthrough medical
technologies and passionate engagement that strengthens our communities.
Definition
Supporting the provision of quality care to underserved and diverse patients in global communities; helping to remove regulatory, geographic
and economic barriers to treatment, ensuring patients have access to new therapies; participating in public policy development; providing
financial contributions in support of Edwards’ goals and aspirations; and developing innovations that allow our products to improve the
efficiency, safety and effectiveness of healthcare processes.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 203-2, GRI 415-1  
Management approach
Edwards Lifesciences believes patients should have access to affordable, high-quality care and new therapies, and that patient care can
always be improved. Unfortunately, patients in today’s global healthcare system often face numerous barriers to treatment. These can include
lack of disease awareness, restricted access to coverage, geographic barriers, inaccurate physician referrals and policy restrictions.
Edwards’ focus on improving access to care contributes to a more sustainable healthcare system and addresses unmet patient needs. It is
our goal to make the patient experience better, reduce overall healthcare costs and continuously improve quality of care. We address this in
our goal to remove barriers along the patient journey to continuously increase treatment rates for all indicated severe aortic stenosis patients.
This goal aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 3: Good Health & Well-Being.
Our programs began with the recognition that patients, providers and healthcare systems have come to recognize and require the monitoring
of more non-clinical health outcome measures like quality of life (QoL) that lead to meaningful changes in healthcare status.
Furthermore, with an increasingly aging population, longer life-expectancy, growth of evidence-based treatment options and constrained
budgets, governments and other payers globally are increasingly focused on covering and paying for technologies that are cost-effective
and/or cost-saving.
Global Health Economics & Reimbursement (GHER)
Edwards envisions a future where all patients in need have access to cardiovascular care. To that end, it is important that our treatments are
cost effective for healthcare systems. Cardiovascular care innovations can pose a challenge when healthcare systems are unequipped to
quickly adopt new technologies. Edwards seeks to bridge this gap by providing health economic data and tools to hospitals and healthcare
systems implementing our therapies.
Edwards employs a GHER team whose mission is to increase patient access by developing and defining the related clinical and economic
data that healthcare decision-makers need. The GHER team compensation is not linked to sales performance. Our dedicated GHER staff
supports customers’ and healthcare systems' efforts to improve patient outcomes and reduce costs. We work directly with healthcare
systems to provide the clinical and economic data that ensures equitable access, coverage and payment for our technologies is to be
available to patients in need.
32 of 92Improving access to care
Together with support from Edwards Lifesciences, the American Heart Association’s (AHA) new quality improvement initiative addresses need
for improvements in identification of patients with aortic stenosis and adherence to treatment guidelines. This new initiative around structural
heart disease will begin with an intensive approach to aortic stenosis in a select number of communities that will be identified in the first phase
of the initiative. These locations will be the front lines to identify best practices for in-patient and out-patient settings alike. The goal is to
improve the patient experience from symptom onset to appropriate diagnosis and follow-through, to timely treatment and disease
management. The program consists of evidence-based measurement development to better identify and treat patients, as well as multi-media
educational resources and self-management care plans for people living with structural heart disease. For more details please see 
AHA’s
press release
.
Edwards further supports improvements in the care pathway of structural heart disease patients through our CardioCare program. CardioCare
is a platform that automates clinical workflow to help improve symptom recognition and referral rates of patients with aortic stenosis and mitral
regurgitation among providers. Through the CardioCare program, heart teams and hospitals are better equipped to assist patients and
manage the care pathway for structural heart disease while identifying and addressing existing gaps in the care pathway. We leverage Artificial
Intelligence to review echocardiograms and support physician and nurse decision-making, enabling follow-up for heart valve disease patients.
By automating clinical workflow, the CardioCare program provides visibility to all patients in hospital systems with aortic stenosis and mitral
regurgitation, enabling providers to prioritize care for the most critical patients. For more information, please see our 
CardioCare
 page.
Philanthropic support
Edwards is proud to serve patients from diverse backgrounds, all around the world. Through the Edwards Lifesciences Foundation, we
support many philanthropic initiatives that increase access to healthcare for underserved patients. The Foundation works to expand access to
therapies in all geographic areas, including those in emerging markets through support of clinical education and medical mission work. We
aim to reach underserved regions all around the world, such as Africa, Brazil, China, Dominican Republic, Haiti, India, Jamaica, Peru, Puerto
Rico, Russia and Vietnam. Please see our 
Volunteerism & Giving
 section for more information on Edwards’ philanthropic efforts.
Every Heartbeat Matters
Our signature philanthropic initiative is 
Every Heartbeat Matters
 (EHM). The initial goal of EHM was to impact the global burden of heart valve
disease by supporting the education, screening and treatment of 1 million underserved people by 2020, which we met early, in 2019. Based on
the accumulated knowledge and experience over the past six years on how to have the greatest impact on patients, Edwards is focused on its
next phase of EHM. Our new goal is to improve the lives of 2.5 million additional underserved structural heart and critical care patients by the
end of 2025. This goal aligns with SDG 3: Good Health & Well-Being. More on this initiative can be found on our 
EHM
 page. A complete list of
grantees is available on our 
website
. Each partner is required to adhere to our
program and reporting guidelines
.
In addition to cash donations, we partner with an experienced organization, 
MAP International
, to offer EHM partners donated products to
perform humanitarian treatment for underserved structural heart and critical care patients outside the U.S.
Political activities
As a highly regulated medical technology company, public policy influences our ability to help patients. We are active in the policy making and
political process through regular and constructive engagement with government officials, policymakers and stakeholder groups. Our goal is to
advance sound public policy on areas related to patient-focused medical innovations for structural heart disease, critical care and surgical
monitoring, and to improve patient outcomes and enhance lives.
We outline our approach in our 
Policy on Political Activities
 and disclose all federal and state 
political contributions
 on our corporate website,
which we update twice per year.
33 of 92Annual performance
Edwards is passionate about increasing access for all patients in need. Each year, we challenge ourselves to do more—for our patients,
philanthropic partners and communities.
Global Health Economics & Reimbursement
Our Global Health Economics and Reimbursement (GHER) program strives to provide reimbursement education to individual hospitals or
health systems providing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) and other Edwards technologies. While working with TAVR
programs in support of their efforts to deliver quality care remained a top priority for Edwards throughout 2019, we also focused efforts
assuring the appropriate access for our new technologies in our Surgical Structural Heart business.
We also furthered our work with hospital sites on understanding and adopting best demonstrated quality practices and realizing care
efficiencies associated with TAVR and Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement. These efforts continue to increase overall patient access to care
and significantly reduce the costs of care.
In support of our Critical Care business, we continued the generation of evidence necessary to understand how intra-operative hypotension
can lead to poor patient outcomes and supported a provider quality initiative centered on the recognition and correction of this problem.
One health economics approach is social value analysis, which seeks to monetize the health benefits of a therapy and assess the relative
share of those benefits going to society (as health gains) versus returning to manufacturers (as profits). In February 2020, an analysis
commissioned by the Edwards GHER team was published in the 
American Journal of Managed Care
 demonstrating substantial social value
created from the use of TAVR as the treatment for inoperable aortic stenosis patients. Between 2018 and 2028, the study projects that TAVR
will yield a cumulative social benefit of up to $48 billion, with 80 percent of that benefit accruing to patients. These findings and analyses inform
a broader discussion of value and suggest that companies like Edwards Lifesciences can generate large returns for patients and society.
Improving access to care
In 2019, the American Heart Association (AHA) announced a new quality improvement initiative. With support from Edwards Lifesciences, the
patient-centered initiative is dedicated to improving disease recognition and appropriate treatment with an initial focus on a prevalent structural
heart disease, 
aortic stenosis
. According to AHA, the comprehensive and scalable program will raise patient awareness and deepen patient
engagement while delivering guideline-directed, optimal-care standards education.
Our CardioCare program has processed more than 830,000 echocardiograms through a national network of structural heart programs since
2015, with expectations to process 1,000,000 echocardiograms by the end of 2020. Currently in 2020, we have numerous sites engaged in the
CardioCare program around the U.S. with several research and development programs underway to further improve and expand the platform.
Educational initiatives for better care
In 2019, Edwards launched the “Reach for the Heart” Direct-to-Consumer Disease Awareness Campaign in the United States. This campaign
is intended to raise awareness about Heart Valve Disease (HVD) and improve treatment rates for patients diagnosed with HVD. While
knowledge and awareness of HVD is low, it affects millions of people. Up to 50 percent of those with severe aortic stenosis will die within two
years after symptoms begin, if left untreated. To address the low survival and diagnosis rates associated with this disease, Edwards designed
a campaign that would empower seniors and their loved ones to “Reach For The Heart”, turning the instinctual act of reaching out into a
simple, yet emotional, rallying cry to spread awareness about this fatal disease.
From mid-August to the end of December in 2019, the Reach for the Heart campaign showed strong performance:
Received more than 260,000 website visits to the campaign website, ReachForTheHeart.com
Achieved over 20,000 key meaningful website actions
Helped more than 350,000 seniors become highly aware of heart valve disease
34 of 92In addition to the campaign performance, Edwards employees have been actively engaged with the campaign through an organized internal
campaign initiative. There are several ways employees stay informed and get involved on campus:
As the campaign evolves, the Edwards Disease Awareness team remains focused on providing patients with the education and support they
need. In 2021, the campaign plans to expand its reach by continuing to provide relevant and meaningful education to patients and their loved
ones.
To learn more about the Reach for the Heart campaign visit:
Campaign Website: 
ReachForTheHeart.com
Facebook Page: 
Reach Out: Heart Valve Disease
YouTube Channel: 
Reach Out: Heart Valve Disease
Philanthropic support
Our philanthropic initiative, Every Heartbeat Matters (EHM), focuses on impacting the lives of underserved patients. By partnering with more
than 
60 patient- and cardiac-focused charitable partners around the world
, we have invested more than $30 million and countless hours of
employees' dedication to creating the EHM community. This includes:
Between 2014 and 2020, the EHM community has impacted the global burden of heart valve disease by educating, screening and treating over
1.7 million underserved people, surpassing our initial goal of 1 million.
Political & lobbying expenditures
In 2019, Edwards made $84,200 in 
state political contributions
, and the Edwards PAC made $183,500 in 
federal contributions
. A full list of
recipients and donation amounts is available on our 
website
. Additionally, a portion of our industry association membership dues were spent
on federal lobbying. These include:
Edwards received the highest score in the 
2019 CPA-Zicklin Index
 for political disclosure and accountability. Edwards is designated as a
“CPA-Zicklin Trendsetter.” In 2019, Edwards was also listed as a Best Practice Example for disclosing payments to trade associations. The
CPA-Zicklin Index benchmarks the political disclosure and accountability policies and practices of leading U.S. public companies. The Center
for Political Accountability in conjunction with the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research at The Wharton School at the University of
Pennsylvania produce the Index annually.
An online course about Disease Awareness is offered through Edwards’ Learning Management System
During the nationwide Heart Month in February, the Disease Awareness team hosted an on-campus
activity to raise awareness about HVD
Employees have shared personal stories about their own experiences with HVD
Employees are encouraged to take a campaign pledge to help continue providing awareness and
education about Heart Valve Disease amongst their families and communities
60 charitable partners
Underserved people reached in 46 countries
Nearly 165,000 underserved people have been screened for heart valve disease
More than 8,700 underserved people have received heart valve treatment
More than 38,000 clinicians caring for underserved patients have received training
Global Health Economics & Reimbursement
Advanced Medical Technology Association: $66,654
California Life Sciences Association: $30,730
35 of 92Sustainability report
Patient experience & voice
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to improve Patient Experience and Voice supports our 
aspiration
 of transforming patient lives with breakthrough
medical technologies.
Definition
Continuously improving the patient experience with products developed with feedback and input from patients while empowering patients to
support and aid each other.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 413-2  
Management approach
Edwards Lifesciences focuses on providing patient-centric innovations that save and enhance patient lives. We understand that too often
patients do not have influence over the diagnosis of their condition, the type of treatment they receive or how their care is delivered. We work to
incorporate patients’ input into the development of our products. By listening to patients and capturing their input through both qualitative and
quantitative methods, we can provide care that meets individual needs and preferences.
The Vice President of Patient Engagement is responsible for ensuring that all patient engagement activities are aligned with our Aspirations to
transform patient care through innovative technologies and to attract and engage talented employees. Our global Patient Engagement team
designs activities to better incorporate the patient perspective into our business strategy. We enable meaningful patient-driven innovation by
authentically empowering patients, advocates and healthcare stakeholders to widen access to treatments and transform quality of life.
Our work in this area aligns to SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being, in particular sub-target 3.4: by 2030, reduce by one third premature
mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being.
Growing the patient voice through partnerships
When patients use their voices, they do more than advocate for themselves—they inspire others to speak up and support each other in
working toward healthier outcomes. We believe in the work undertaken by patient advocacy groups and we are proud to support those
organizations through resource sharing and charitable contributions. Edwards Lifesciences Foundation provides charitable grants to the
American Heart Association for their 
Heart Valve Ambassador Program
, which connects heart valve patients to a group of dedicated
individuals who offer resources and support, as well as the Heart Valve Education Center, where patients can connect with and learn from
other patients. Our Foundation also supports 
Heart Valve Voice
 – a patient-focused advocacy organization that collects and shares patient
stories and advocates on behalf of patients’ interests. This global program reaches patients in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Ireland, Italy and
France. Other patient advocacy programs the Foundation supports include:
The Patient Experience
Mended Hearts Trained Accredited Patient Visitor Program
Mended Hearts Peer Advocate program
WomenHeart: National Coalition for Women with Heart Disease and Heart Champions program
Patient Advocate Foundation’s Heart Valve CareLine and Financial Aid Fund
36 of 92The Patient Experience
The experience for those suffering from cardiovascular disease remains complex and filled with obstacles. The treatment process can be
inconsistent from one patient to the next. Our annual 
Patient Experience
 event brings together patients and caregivers in multiple Edwards
locations around the world to connect and share their experiences with our employees and other patients. Through this program, Edwards
gains important insights into the patient journey, from symptoms and diagnosis through treatment and recovery, as well as the patient
concerns and challenges along the way. This input helps us identify opportunities to address gaps in care, and guides our efforts to develop
tools, support resources and programs to improve patient access, experience and outcomes.
Evidence
 indicates that empowered, engaged patients experience better clinical outcomes. For this reason, Edwards’ Patient Engagement
function maintains and consistently updates an approach to empowering patients, including sponsoring patient listening sessions, conducting
Science of Patient Input (SPI) studies, supporting patient advocacy groups that represent the patient’s voice and helping patients exercise their
voices to improve the healthcare system. This approach supports our goal to ensure that our therapies are addressing the needs of patients
through an increasingly collaborative patient engagement process. This goal aligns to SDG 3: Good Health & Well-Being.
Addressing patient needs and connection along the journey to heart
health
Edwards strives to ensure all patients have a voice in shaping their treatment experience, and we recognize that many patients benefit from
minimally invasive procedures. To increase access to minimally invasive procedures, Edwards drives innovation in Transcatheter Aortic Valve
Replacement (TAVR) technology. TAVR allows physicians to replace heart valves with a catheter instead of surgically opening the chest. To
learn more about patient experiences with Edwards’ heart valves, browse our collection of 
patient stories
.
Our industry-leading Edwards PatientConnect program offers dedicated care managers and peer ambassadors who support and help
patients navigate through what can be an overwhelming, arduous pathway from pre-treatment through recovery. Additionally, our TAVR Patient
Community Program supports patients post-procedure with educational materials, resources and opportunities to participate in peer support,
outreach and advocacy. This unique program helps support TAVR patients along their journey to heart health and enables them to connect
with other patients and get involved in improving the experience for future valve patients.
Edwards places a priority on gathering patient insights across the total product lifecycle, so we invest in patient preference studies among
various patient groups to determine the benefit-risk tolerance for new therapies. Using qualitative and quantitative methods, Edwards ensures
the patient voice is heard from development to commercialization of new technologies.
Patient resources
Edwards believes informed patients have a more successful treatment experience. Our 
website
 offers information on heart valve disease and
treatment, as well as FAQs and a glossary of terminology. Additionally, our 
NewHeartValve
 website provides comprehensive information on
aortic stenosis and options for treatment. Our Foundation also invests in educational resources for patients with 
Mended Hearts
, the 
American
Heart Association
 and with the 
Alliance for Aging Research Foundation
.
37 of 92Annual performance
Patient engagement and events
Listening to patients inspires us and drives improvement in our patient engagement initiatives. In 2019, our Patient Engagement team focused
on globalizing the Patient Experience events to bring opportunities for patient interaction to all Edwards employees, including our field teams.
For example, we provided nearly 5,000 employees the opportunity to have an in-person engagement with a patient. Through our Patient
Experience program, more than 150 patients and guests shared their stories with approximately 2,600 Edwards employees at seven global
locations. This included a first-ever Patient Experience event at our Ireland, Costa Rica, Japan and Singapore locations. In addition, we hosted
patient speakers at additional Edwards meetings, such as sales meetings and regional leadership summits, to reinforce and strengthen our
patient-focused culture. Edwards’ Patient Engagement team plans to hold annual patient interactions globally in all Edwards offices with more
than 50 employees.
Consistently embedding patient focus across Edwards
As Edwards continues to grow our business and expand across the globe, we consider it a top priority to maintain a consistent patient-centric
culture. To do so, in 2019, our Patient Engagement team began developing training modules that provide employees participating in patient
interactions with general guidelines and tips for creating a positive experience for all. We recognize that patient engagement provides a
powerful sense of purpose in our work for many of Edwards’ employees, and we continue to prioritize facilitating these connections.
In addition to maintaining consistency in our patient-focused culture across geographic locations, we also standardize our approach to
managing patient engagement from a corporate level. One effort is our newly created Patient Support Center, which acts as a centralized
place to collect, organize and address any patient inquiries received by Edwards. This will support the patient experience team in their work to
provide recommendations to initiatives around Edwards based on patient feedback or requests. The Center will help ensure we respond to
and resolve all patient inquires and provide us with quantifiable metrics to guide improvements in our response time.
38 of 92Sustainability report
Products
Edwards Lifesciences is a leader in patient-focused innovations for structural heart disease and critical care technologies. The products
section of our 2019 Sustainability Report contains our management approach and annual performance for the following material topics:
Product Safety & Quality
Supply Chain Management
39 of 92Sustainability report
Product safety & quality
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to maintain product safety and quality supports our aspiration of excelling as a trusted partner through
distinguished quality and integrity. Creating safe, quality products is the foundation of both our business success and culture. Our reputation
rests on delivering innovative, trustworthy products that save patient lives.
Definition
Monitoring, managing and reducing negative health and safety impacts of Edwards’ products. Maintenance of product quality and ensuring
Edwards' products are free from any deficiencies or defects.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 416-1, GRI 416-2, SASB HC-MS-250a.1, SASB HC-MS-250a.2, SASB HC-
MS-430a.2  
Management approach
High quality products are at the core of our commitment to being a trusted partner to patients and healthcare professionals. We hold ourselves
accountable for developing products that enable patients to enjoy long and healthy lives.
Product safety is part of our Quality Management System and we provide related training to employees through our Learning Management
System and in-person classes, when appropriate. The Edwards team determines the level of training necessary based on each role, taking
into account the amount of impact each role has on the safety of our products. Employees receive annual training and recertification based on
potential risk of the process on product or patient safety associated with their role. We also require re-training based on different trigger events
such as training or document content change, prolonged absence from executing the task or process, and process or product non-
conformance that requires employee training.
Edwards communicates our quality and safety standards to suppliers through the specifications and requirements in every purchase order as
well as in our Supplier Quality Agreements. To learn more about how we manage product safety and quality in our value chain, please visit the
Supply Chain Management
 section.
The 
governance map
 below illustrates our management structure for product quality and safety.
40 of 92Governance map
Regulatory compliance for quality
As a medical technology company, Edwards must comply with strict regulations regarding the design, development, manufacture and
distribution of our products and services. These include U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations as well as those set by
international regulatory bodies. We undergo frequent audits by these agencies to confirm compliance with all applicable standards and
regulations.
We have established a company-wide Quality System defined in our Edwards Lifesciences Quality Manual. The quality framework helps to
advance our goals of ensuring Edwards’ products and services satisfy customer requirements while complying with regulatory requirements
in every country where Edwards sells products. The regulatory requirements we adhere to include, but are not limited to, the following:
Our Quality System enables us to meet all regulatory requirements of each regulation in which we operate, where applicable.
*For manufacturers of medical devices, ISO 13485 is a widely accepted model for demonstrating compliance to worldwide laws and
regulations. The ISO standard meets the comprehensive requirements for a Quality Management System and ensures a consistent output.
The Edwards Lifesciences LLC ISO 13485 Certification includes the design, development, production and distribution of:
ISO 13485 Medical Devices – Quality Management Systems – Requirements for Regulatory Purposes*
ISO 14971 Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices
US Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act:
21 CFR part 11 – Electronic Records; Electronic Signatures
21 CFR part 820 – Quality System Regulations
93/42/EEC, 2003/32/EC European Medical Device Directive (MDD)
Canadian Medical Device Regulations (CMDR)
Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP)
Japan Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (JPAL)
Australian Therapeutic Goods Act 1989 and associated regulations
Brazilian Good Manufacturing Practices (RDC ANVISA 16/2013)
41 of 92Internal quality controls
Please review the strategy execution section of our Product Safety & Quality governance map for information on internal quality controls.
Our Global Product Complaint Handling System collects, analyzes and manages customer feedback regarding Edwards’ products. We
educate all Edwards employees regarding their reporting responsibilities and we require every individual to report complaints no more than 48
hours after receipt. We assess all feedback with the aim of continually improving our products to meet customer and patient needs.
Manufacturing execution system
Edwards has additional product quality and safety initiatives to streamline and improve our product manufacturing processes. Our
Manufacturing Execution System (MES) aims to reduce waste, inventory and cycle times while improving quality, efficiency and overall product
performance. This system helps increase compliance at our facilities and prepares us for FDA inspections.
Managing product recalls
Our Quality System focuses on the implementation of strong design and development work in our manufacturing processes. Please refer to
our governance map for information on how Edwards uses feedback mechanisms and conducts corrective actions.
If we determine a Field Corrective Action is necessary, the Vice President of Quality for the impacted unit is responsible for promptly executing
this action to remediate all affected products appropriately. In addition, we have systems in place for necessary actions to correct and prevent
the recurrence of the issue.
Edwards is committed to resolving any recall issues by following regulations of the markets/countries impacted and using our expertise in
quality management to implement required actions. We have a goal to achieve no significant disruption of product availability, which aligns with
SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being.
In the U.S., the FDA categorizes recalls into 
three classes
:
Biological Heart Valves, Heart Valve Delivery Systems, Valvuloplasty Catheters, Annuloplasty Rings;
Pericardial Patches, Accessories (Valve Handles, Valve and Ring Sizers, Trays, Heart Support
Devices), Suture Fastener and Delivery Systems, Transcatheter Valve Repair Systems, and
Cardiovascular and Vascular products; Cardioplegia Delivery Systems, Catheters for Perfusion,
Drainage, Pressure Monitoring, and Venting during Cardiopulmonary Bypass and accessories;
Accessories for Heart Valve Repair and Replacement; Instruments and Accessories; and Retractors.
Hemodynamic Monitoring Equipment, Disposables and Related Accessories; Medical Devices used for
the Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease; Medical Devices and Related Accessories used in the
Diagnosis and Treatment of Peripheral Vascular Disease; and Medical Devices used in Support of
Cardiopulmonary Bypass Surgery
Class I:
 Reasonable probability that the use of the product will cause severe adverse health
consequences or death
Class II:
 Use of the product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health
consequences
Class III:
 Use of the product is not likely to cause adverse health consequences
42 of 92Within the European Union, manufacturers must submit a Field Safety Notice to inform the National Competent Authority/Authorities of any
action taken to reduce risk of death or serious deterioration in health associated with the use of a medical device already on the market.
A team of Edwards engineers handles requests for information from customers regarding product quality and safety. The Vice President of
Product Safety or regional delegates conduct customer visits to monitor product performance and to track customer and patient satisfaction.
Managing clinical research
Edwards is committed to following all ethical considerations and regulatory requirements while conducting clinical research. We carry out our
research, including the use of any outsourced third-party vendor, in accordance with the recommendations guiding physicians in biomedical
research involving human subjects adopted by the 18th World Medical Assembly, Helsinki, Finland, 1964 and all subsequent updates. We
conduct research in accordance with Good Clinical Practice and applicable regulatory requirements to ensure patient safety. Examples of
such regulations include, but are not limited to, the following:
Edwards requires all applicable clinical research to have independent Ethics/Institutional Review Board approval and oversight as well as
patient authorization to participate in research – via a signed patient informed consent form – prior to initiation of research activities. We
employ the routine use of independent Data Safety Monitoring Boards (DSMBs) and Clinical Event Committees (CECs) in accordance with
FDA Guidance for Clinical Trial Sponsors – Establishment and Operation of Clinical Trial Data Monitoring Committees. Edwards also follows
Section 801 of the FDA Amendments Act (FDAAA 801 and the Final Rule) for public protocol registration of clinical trials and subsequent
reporting of clinical trial results. There are multiple ways to report product or research grievances directly to Edwards, including the
Edwards.com 
contact us
 web page. This page also provides a way for patients and healthcare providers to find privacy information and
request product information or removal of personal data.
United States of America:
21 CFR: Part 50 (Protection of Human Subjects), Part 803 (Medical Device Reporting), Part 812
(Investigational Device Exemptions), Part 814 (Premarket Approval of Medical Devices), Part 822
(Post Market Surveillance)
ICH E6 – Good Clinical Practice
European Union:
ISO 14155 Clinical Investigation of Medical Devices for Human Subjects – Good Clinical Practice
MDD 93/42/EEC European Medical Device Directive 93/42/EEC (MDD)
MEDDEV 2.7.1 revision 4 Clinical Investigations: Serious Adverse Event Reporting under
Directives 90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC.
Japan:
Japan Pharmaceutical Law (JPAL) Medical Device Ordinances
China
China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) Regulations
43 of 92Annual performance
Edwards Lifesciences’ performance highlights our relentless focus on managing and improving our quality control systems. Our goal is to
drive continuous improvement efforts to eliminate patient safety-related Class I product removals. This goal aligns to SDG 3: Good Health &
Well-Being.
Improving patient safety through device tracking
In 2013, the U.S. FDA established a 
Unique Device Identification
 (UDI) system that enables more comprehensive tracking of medical devices.
UDI system implementation will continue according to established compliance dates based primarily on device classification. Using UDI
numbers reduces the chance of patient misidentification of products. Edwards continues to implement this system within our processes in
alignment with the FDA’s 
required schedule
.
Product recalls
In 2019, Edwards executed two FDA Class I recalls which resulted in device retrievals, involving the IntraClude Intra-Aortic Occlusion Device
and Miller Balloon & Fogarty Dilation Atrioseptostomy Catheters.  Two additional Class I recalls involved updates to our Instructions for Use but
product was not removed; these related to the SAPIEN 3 Ultra Delivery System and the EV1000 Clinical Platform.  Systemic initiatives were
launched in 2019 to identify areas for improvement across all product lines, to ensure that all Edwards devices continue to meet our high
standards for quality and safety. Edwards provides complete information on recalls through the FDA’s 
publicly available database
 for medical
device recalls.
44 of 92Sustainability report
Supply chain management
Edwards Lifesciences’ supply chain management practices focus on product lifecycle, design and innovation, and commitment to product
stewardship supports our aspiration of transforming patient lives with breakthrough medical technologies.
Definition
Monitoring and assessing product quality, safety, social and environmental performance of Edwards’ suppliers. Innovating to improve quality,
design and performance of products and reducing environmental impacts of Edwards’ products throughout their lifecycle. Reducing
environmental and human health impacts from Edwards’ use of harmful materials and chemicals in products or operations.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 404-3, GRI 414-1, SASB HC-MS-430a.3  
Management approach
Supply Chain Management
To create industry-leading therapies for cardiovascular disease, we rely on our suppliers. We strive to improve our supplier base annually by
ensuring that our best suppliers work on our new products, that we continue to rationalize and reduce our supply base and that we improve
performance.
We know supply chain performance directly impacts innovation and the quality of our products, so we insist on high product quality and safety
at every level. Our Global Supply Chain and Product Quality departments collaborate with our key partner suppliers on risk management,
improvement action plans and consistent high product quality. Our supplier partnerships are essential in delivering the quality products that
drive Edwards’ success. We continuously strive to expand supplier engagement.
45 of 92Governance Map
In 2018, we created a governance map to illustrate our Supply Chain Management structure.
Edwards’ Supply Chain segmentation has established the top 12 strategic direct materials suppliers. Our goal is to roll-out a sustainability
program and review process to strategic suppliers by 2020 and key suppliers by 2021, assessing current plans and improving on any identified
opportunities. This goal aligns with SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production. Edwards Supply Chain holds an annual Partner
Forum to facilitate sustainability reviews and further alignment, to share progress on sustainability goals and practices, and to set expectations
for the coming year.
Supplier management overview
With approximately 400 direct material suppliers for all of our global products, Edwards is highly selective when evaluating and adding new
suppliers to our portfolio. To limit risk exposure, we avoid adding new direct materials suppliers, and only add them when there is a clear
business case, such as a new technology or new capability or capacity needs. In the few cases where we do add suppliers, we follow a
rigorous process that includes extensive due diligence. We have designated and prioritized a significant reduction of our direct materials
supplier base over the upcoming years.
We operate a Global Supplier Portal through which suppliers can access key information, provide feedback and notification of any significant
changes as required per the Quality Agreement. We request that they pre-notify us of product changes in a timely manner to allow us time to
qualify the change as necessary. By 2021, we have a goal to implement a Supplier Code of Conduct, which will be accessible in this portal.
With our global Part Qualification Process, we collaborate with suppliers on product manufacturability while improving product quality and cost.
Our global supplier capacity framework helps our suppliers plan their capacity for growth.
Our R&D Sourcing team is responsible for all direct materials source selection on all of our new products and components. This team
executes source selection per our global category strategies that identify the preferred and approved suppliers to award new products. These
suppliers represent our best performers and partnerships and we prioritize their bids on new product work. Edwards has dashboards and
metrics that track the amount of new product awarded to these suppliers. To facilitate prioritizing high-performing suppliers, the R&D Sourcing
Portal lists our preferred suppliers for each category and an Advanced Sourcing Lead participating on all of the R&D New Product teams. Our
system generates automated notifications when someone tries to award work to a non-preferred supplier.
46 of 92Assessing and monitoring supply chain risk
Before partnering with any new suppliers Edwards conducts a comprehensive supplier evaluation. Direct materials suppliers require on-site
assessment of facilities and quality control systems, as well as on-site Quality System audits. Once we approve a supplier, we periodically
conduct follow-up supplier audits and performance reviews to promote continual adherence to our standards. For every new part, the supplier
completes a form through which they disclose the material content of the products.
Edwards also has a global supply risk management and governance process that includes a global risk assessment process to evaluate
potential supply risks on key components and suppliers. These include risk due to location, material content and country regulations, as well
as sole source risks. We prefer doing business in countries with higher ethical standards and protections for information technology and
intellectual property, reducing the chance that sustainability violations will impact our stakeholders and business. Approximately 80 percent of
Edwards annual spend comes from these lower-risk locations.
We use a risk monitoring tool that provides updates on our suppliers’ business developments, acquisitions and credit performance as well as
financial default risk. Our team sets automatic alerts on key suppliers and immediately forwards important information to the designated
Edwards employee for evaluation and action, if necessary.
We assign all suppliers in our system a Risk Level by our Quality organization. Suppliers are designated either a Risk Level 1, 2 or 3 rating.
Risk level 1 represents the “highest risk,” for suppliers that could impact patient safety or product performance. To conduct any business with
these suppliers, they must be classified as “Approved” in our Quality System.
We conduct audits for high-risk suppliers to assess their quality systems in support of Edwards’ compliance to regulations applicable to
production of medical devices. Approval is granted upon completion of an audit, any corrective action plan and part qualification process. We
have an established decision tree process that considers the potential impact of supplied materials to patient safety and product performance,
which then assigns the risk level per part number sourced. Additionally, we established similar decision trees for service suppliers that fall
within the requirements of our quality management system to be qualified and monitored.
Localizing supply and distribution
Edwards protects both the environment and our bottom line by sourcing materials as close as possible to our manufacturing sites. Where
feasible, we strategically align distribution facilities with the global markets we serve, reducing the costs and environmental impacts of
transportation. Having achieved our goal for 2019, we have set a new goal to improve our network optimization by reducing air miles traveled
by 3,000,000 as compared to a 2018 baseline by the end of 2021. This goal aligns with SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth, SDG 9:
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production, and SDG 13: Climate Action.
Supply base by region
Supplier sustainability
North America
Asia
Europe
Latin America/Caribbean
47 of 92Supplier sustainability
Our most significant ESG impacts occur in various parts of the Edwards supply chain:
Because we want our suppliers to be long-term partners, Edwards values suppliers who exhibit sustainable practices. Edwards requires all
suppliers to employ ethical and responsible business practices. We adhere to the 
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010
 by
disclosing our actions to prevent human trafficking and slavery. Our 
Responsible Supply Chain Policy
 outlines our approach and expectations
for suppliers, which include:
Edwards has developed supplier metrics to measure quality levels and other expectations for each of our preferred suppliers. These include:
Supplier partnerships for innovation
Edwards builds collaborative, long-term relationships with strategic and key suppliers who support our vision for innovation and engage our
partner suppliers during the product innovation stage. Through our Value Engineering capability, we ask these suppliers to provide insight into
the design and manufacturing of new products. This includes supply chain employees on most research and development product teams to
facilitate supplier selection and early supplier involvement. In this way, we enable our research and development teams to collaborate with
suppliers throughout the product development process.
Intellectual property
Protecting intellectual property is important to maintaining Edwards’ leadership position in medical technology innovation. The strength of our
proprietary technology fuels our research and development of new, patient-focused solutions. Edwards owns more than 6,000 issued patents
and pending patent applications in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. We monitor our competitors to identify possible infringement, protect
our patents and take appropriate action when required. We actively generate new intellectual property (IP) and pursue acquisition of
complementary IP across our businesses.  We consider safeguarding Edwards’ IP in awarding business to preferred partner suppliers.
Product Quality – Across all sites, we continue to focus on improved process capability, yield
improvement and scrap reduction, thus allowing for a smaller amount of product needing to be disposed
of on an annualized basis.
Patient Safety/Impact – We worked to upgrade our new product development process and simplify our
Quality System to allow for continued focus on product improvement and building quality in at the source
during product development and launch.
Lean Manufacturing Efforts – We identify lines each year for reconfiguration to determine where and
how we can eliminate waste and increase outputs with the same amount of people, which reduces
environmental impact.
Fair labor practices
Environmental responsibility
Workplace health and safety
Ethical practices
Protection of human rights
Socially responsible behavior
Legal compliance
ISO13485 Certification where applicable
Completion of comprehensive quality audit with no critical findings
Minimum lot acceptance rates
Minimum scar-free rates
Minimum performance on good delivery and service levels
48 of 92Chemical & material stewardship
Edwards Lifesciences is committed to the long-term health of patients. Our goal is to ensure that our products are fully compliant with
chemical regulations and requirements. We have procedures in place to assess the materials in our products and make continuous
improvements to remove banned materials. Safety procedures protect our employees by limiting exposure to potentially harmful chemicals.
The Product Stewardship Steering Committee meets on a quarterly basis to provide updates on the status of each business unit’s activities as
well as updates on new or revised chemical regulations that will impact Edwards Lifesciences.
Edwards strives for 100 percent compliance with various materials regulations ranging from restricting the use of certain hazardous
substances in medical devices to labeling the products. For example, Europe’s 
Restriction of Hazardous Substances
 (RoHS)
directive restricts hazardous substances used in electrical and electronic equipment, whereas China RoHS requires these products to be
labeled appropriately. Our focus extends to our supply chain, where we require compliance with all applicable regulations for chemical and
materials use.
Hazardous materials regulations can evolve quickly. For example, 
REACH
 adds new substances of very high concern to its list every six
months. Edwards monitors these changes and, when we identify a pending restriction that might impact our business, we act immediately by
briefing our Steering Committee for Product Stewardship and begin assessing our products.
Supplier materials database
While Edwards already screens suppliers for hazardous substances, we know customers increasingly demand full transparency about
materials in their products. In 2015, we began developing our Material Compliance Module (MCM), an internal database to collect and manage
information about product materials, including packaging. We collect and upload supplier materials disclosures for REACH, RoHS and Conflict
Minerals to the database. It also contains packaging weight, dimension of packaging material and part numbers. The database enables us to
provide our customers with clear and complete reports on product composition, as well as packaging waste reports in Europe.
Conflict minerals
Striving to eliminate conflict minerals from our supplied materials in a continual process. We use 3TG (tantalum, tin tungsten and gold) for the
functionality and production of certain of our Critical Care products. Our 
Conflict Minerals Policy Statement
 describes our support of the
Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) disclosure requirement for conflict mineral sourcing. Since 2014, we have also published an
annual 
Conflict Minerals Report
 highlighting our progress. For every new part awarded to our suppliers, we require the applicable supplier to
submit a written disclosure of compliance to this standard. Each year, we work with a third-party consultant to monitor our progress, analyze
data and identify strategies to improve our performance.
Packaging design & innovation
Edwards strives to maximize the value and function of our products from design to end-of-life. We continue to strengthen our packaging
design process to enable safer, more efficient and cost-effective product delivery. This includes exploring sustainable solutions that decrease
the impact to our environment. For example, our Packaging Engineering teams are pursuing initiatives for developing alternate materials and
processes that may improve packaging performance while reducing cost and waste. In 2019, we made significant progress on our goal of
leveraging packaging lifecycle assessment and improvement to reduce 15 percent packaging waste for targeted high-volume commercial
products by 2020. And, we plan to roll-out electronic instructions-for-use to all business regions by the end of 2022. Both goals align to SDG 8:
Decent Work and Economic Growth and SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production.
49 of 92Annual performance
Supply chain management
During 2019, we met our goal of incorporating sustainability reviews at our top strategic suppliers and distributors by 2020. At our annual
Strategic Partner Forum, we met with 25 top partners discussing and educating on our supply chain management strategy and aspirations for
our sustainability journey and goals. We initiated multi-functional Quarterly Business Reviews with our strategic suppliers, which include
sustainability objectives currently focusing on environmental responsibility, workplace health and safety, legal compliance and ethical
practices. These reviews include a sustainability program assessment and alignment discussion on any gaps compared to Edwards’
approach. We will be expanding these business reviews to additional key suppliers in 2020.
We began phase one in 2019 that included collection of sustainability program information from our top partners and a pilot sustainability
survey, which received a 100 percent response rate. During 2020, we began phase two that includes sustainability program assessments,
gaps alignment discussions and supplier self-assessments and action plans to address identified gaps.
For the second year, in 2019, we carried out production capacity reviews with our preferred suppliers to ensure they have capacity in place, or
plans to scale up production, that aligns with our long-term strategic growth plans. We also implemented a database to collect and capture
materials composition and product compliance with key materials regulations such as REACH and RoHS.  We have a dedicated team
ensuring compliance to upcoming MDR regulations in Europe.
Packaging design, innovation and distribution
In 2019, Edwards completed five significant projects that led to early achievement of our goal to reduce packaging by 15 percent in targeted,
high-volume commercial products by 2020. This resulted in a total reduction of 150,000 kgs per year of packaging waste (based on current
sales volumes). The five projects included:
As Edwards continues to assess and address climate-related risks, we also recognize opportunities which have emerged. One such climate-
related opportunity is the use of more efficient modes and strategies for distribution of products. Edwards’ medical device products have low
energy demand, and therefore little opportunity to reduce environmental impacts in this area. However, we initiated new measures in our
distribution strategy to provide our products to global customers through more efficient ocean and air delivery methods. In 2019, we exceeded
our goal of improving our network optimization to reduce 2019 air freight by one million air miles (as compared to 2018 baseline) – achieving a
reduction of 1.87 million air miles. We accomplished this by expanding our supply base beyond North America to include additional product
lines at our Singapore facility, localizing distribution to our JAPAC region.
Conflict minerals
For the 2019 reporting period, Edwards conducted two stages of reasonable country of origin inquiry (“RCOI”), supplier and smelter, in
accordance with the Conflict Minerals Rule and the 
OECD
 Due Diligence Guidance.
We designed our supplier RCOI process to identify the smelters in our supply chain and to determine whether the 3TG in our in-scope
products originated in a covered country.
Packaging used for interplant shipment of Surgical Structural Heart implant devices was redesigned
from a 24-pack to a 48-pack style, reducing packaging materials by 32 percent.
Heart valve packaging previously required 36 temperature indicator tags per box. Newly redesigned
packaging allows for just 4 tags per box, resulting in an 88 percent packaging weight reduction.
Transcatheter Heart Valves Crimper Kit Size – 15 percent reduction in packaging materials
Transcatheter Mitral & Tricuspid Therapies Cardioband 1.5 Bundle Box – 50 percent reduction in
packaging volume
Critical Care VascuPouch Reduction Project – 15 percent reduction by weight
50 of 92Edwards’ suppliers that provided product level responses identified nine smelters in their CMRT responses during the 2019 reporting period
included four gold refiners and five tin smelters. All of the smelters and refiners identified by our suppliers for the 2019 reporting period have
been audited and recognized as conformant by the RMAP. Please see the 
Edwards’ Conflict Minerals Report
 for the 2019 fiscal year, as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 31, 2020.
Edwards also has a company- and mine-level grievance mechanism in place. We recognize the Conflict Free Smelter Program’s three audit
protocols for gold, tin/tantalum and tungsten as valid sources of smelter- or mine-level grievances. A company-wide grievance mechanism,
the Edwards Integrity Helpline, is available 24/7, through which our employees and suppliers can confidentially report a violation of our policies
without fear of retaliation. See the 
Ethics & Compliance
 section of this report for more. We also maintain an e-mail address
(
conflict_minerals@edwards.com
) for suppliers and employees to ask questions and voice concerns.
51 of 92Sustainability report
Workforce
Edwards Lifesciences’ employees drive our work with their passion for helping others. The Workforce section of our 2019 Sustainability
Report covers all of our business operations and contains our management approach and annual performance for the following material
topics:
Talent Management
Volunteerism & Giving
52 of 92Sustainability report
Talent Management
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to improve employee recruitment, engagement and retention supports our aspiration of Fostering an Inclusive
Culture Where all Employees Grow and Thrive.
Definition
Developing strategies for attracting, developing and retaining employees. Edwards Lifesciences strives to maintain and enhance a culture
reflective of our Credo and Aspirations. We believe that fostering a diverse, inclusive culture is critical to our long-term success as we help
more patients around the world. Our commitment to promoting workplace health and safety serves our Aspiration of fostering an inclusive
culture where all employees grow and thrive, while providing Edwards employees with health resources and safe working conditions.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 401-2, GRI 401-3, GRI 404-1, GRI 404-2, GRI 404-3, GRI 405-1  
Management approach
Edwards Lifesciences unites our employees around a common passion for improving the lives of our patients. Our top priority is to execute
our work with the utmost precision and care, because we know that our therapies have the power to impact patients’ longevity and quality of
life. Edwards is a growing company, and our 
culture
 is an important factor in attracting and retaining top talent that will continue to advance our
innovative technologies for the patients we serve.
Diversity is a vital part of our company culture, and also foundational to Edwards work to innovate life-saving therapies for patients. Diverse
talent is crucial for driving innovation. We foster a company culture that actively values diversity and is inclusive of people from a variety of
backgrounds and experiences.
Edwards believes our focus to help patients begins with the well-being of our employees. Maintaining a strong and healthy workforce enables
us to stay focused on our goals and dedicate our energies toward the development of life-saving therapies.
As we continue to grow our global footprint, we work to enhance our talent’s ability to think and operate on a global scale. As the workforce
demographics change, we also recognize the need to focus on how works gets done rather than where it gets done. The high expectations of
our partners and the patients we serve in the midst of a fast-changing world present a challenge as they require more agile methodologies and
mindsets, and new technological skillsets, such as artificial intelligence. We aim to foster and recruit talent that can exceed these expectations
in fulfilling the needs of patients.
The governance map below illustrates our Talent Management structure.
53 of 92Governance Map
In 2018, we created a governance map to illustrate our Talent Management structure.
Recruiting top talent
To attract and recruit top talent, Edwards leverages our strong culture in addition to providing competitive compensation and benefits
packages. Our goal is to have annual top talent retention resulting in voluntary turnover of less than high performing benchmarks. We offer
performance-based incentives, stock options, retirement plan options, paid time off, family leave and health, life and disability insurance.
Edwards recruits top students from universities across the world to join our team. Our opportunities for students include:
These programs continue to have a positive business impact. For example, through our TDP and University Engineering Program in 2019, 52
percent of eligible interns were hired for full-time positions (100 percent of offers accepted), and we have found that these employees are more
than twice as likely to become designated as Top Talent as those who did not intern. Individuals hired through the TDP and University
Engineering programs have an 89 percent combined retention rate.
Internships
Edwards University Summer Program
Finance Development Program
University Engineering Program
Clinical & Regulatory Development Program 
Engineering Technical Development Program
Strategic Leadership Development Program
Supply Chain Development Program
54 of 92Employee survey
Our multilingual global employee surveys, known as 
my
Voice, help us identify what we do well and what needs additional development or
attention from leadership.
The objectives of 
my
Voice include:
Our global employee engagement survey includes multiple categories including belonging, a diversity and inclusion indicator, where
employees rate the extent to which they agree with the statement: “I feel a sense of belonging at Edwards Lifesciences.”
Edwards partners with a third party to assess our performance, values and behaviors that drive engagement, alignment and other factors. We
also measure patient focus, innovation and quality as our business priorities. Employees complete the survey online using company
computers. We also send tablet devices to manufacturing sites to gather input from employees who do not have access to a computer on a
daily basis for their work.
Patients first
Edwards’ "Patients First" Credo in action serves as a force multiplier enabling Edwards to attract, engage and retain the best and brightest. A
priority is to expose all employees to patient stories and patient interactions annually to improve engagement and remind our team that working
at Edwards means making a difference in people’s lives. This goal aligns with SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being. Whenever our CEO
conducts an employee meeting, the meeting always concludes with a patient video or testimony, and many of the leaders throughout Edwards
include in their all hands meetings a patient video or story, as well. Patient videos are also shown in new hire orientations around the globe. For
more information on other Patients First programs, please see the 
Patient experience & voice
 section of this report.
Training & leadership development
Our greatest asset is our employees, and the unique knowledge and skills they provide. We host several 
Professional Development
 programs
designed to provide resources to support the growth of our company’s talent, including:
Talent Development Review (TDR)
The purpose of our TDR process is to continually support the growth of all employees through the effective assessment of talent throughout
the organization. We aim to identify and evaluate talent pools, enhance the strength of our talent through career development, and align our
business strategy and talent strategies. As part of the annual process, our CEO meets with each business unit and functional manager to
conduct a full review of their respective organizations’ talent and talent needs for Edwards to pursue its life-saving work and patient-focused
strategy.
Provide employees with the opportunity to share their open and honest feedback about what it’s like to
work at Edwards
Enhance our understanding of how we are doing, what is going well and what needs our attention
Take action to ensure we continue to foster an inclusive culture where all employees grow and thrive
Tuition assistance for continuing education and degree programs at higher educational institutions
Edwards University, an online platform, offers our employees a wide variety of training, education and
other resources, as well as learning partnerships with University of California, Irvine and eCornell
Aspire, our leadership development curriculum, offers skill-based open enrollment workshops, including
topics such as critical thinking, strategic execution, leading at Edwards, effective conversations,
powerful speaking, communicating among different personalities, leveraging diversity and emotional
intelligence
A variety of nomination-based programs that build leaders for the future offering emerging and senior
leaders challenging programming, coaching and assessments
Global Talent Management & Learning architects and develops career broadening experiences for
critical talent populations, globally and across business units
55 of 92Active and expanding mentoring programs
Mentors can help employees identify personal and professional goals, access resources and reach individual potential. We leverage various
mentoring programs across Edwards to build internal talent, transfer/share knowledge and increase employee engagement and satisfaction.
In tracking our program over the years, we found a strong correlation between mentorship participation and employee retention. Flash
mentoring is also being utilized to drive development through less formal, more rapid mentoring connections.
Diversity and inclusion programs
Diversity is more than numbers and statistics. Edwards’ vision is to foster a culture that actively and consistently values diversity. We aim to
become a leading workplace for diversity and inclusion. Please read more on our commitment to diversity in a recent 
letter from our CEO
.
Embracing a diverse workforce helps drive Edwards’ commitment to innovation. Companies with diverse talent have a wider range of
perspectives, which can foster a stronger pool of ideas, creativity and innovation. We have created a culture that understands the strength of
diversity, the power that comes from an inclusive environment and the impact that we can have on so many patients if we listen to the ideas
and diverse thinking of those around us.
Every year, we expand our diversity and inclusion through programs focused on attracting, engaging and developing diverse talent. Sample
activities focused on engaging and retaining diverse talent include:
Engaging employees in diversity
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERG) provide resources and support to Edwards employees. The four focus points of the ERG program
are professional development, networking and mentoring; education and awareness; recruiting; and community outreach. Our employees
participate in several ERGs that celebrate and advance diversity.  These include:
Career fairs for engaging traditionally underrepresented groups at conferences and university chapters
(e.g., National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) and the Society of Women Engineers)
Welcome Reception for summer interns recruited from the NSBE
Active engagement in the 
MedTech and BioTech Veterans Program,
 which connects transitioning
military professionals with careers in lifesciences companies
Panel discussions about managing your career at Edwards featuring guests from our executive or senior
leadership teams
Speed mentoring with senior leadership team members
Leadership development classes
Hospital observation opportunities to see our products in clinical use
Monthly mix & mingle social events
Summer externship program
56 of 92Employee Resource Group
Description
Network of Women (E.NOW)
Informs, involves and inspires all employees on the value of gender diversity and
inclusion to the Edwards culture, where employees grow and thrive.
MultiCultural
Fosters a community that attracts and enables Edwards’ employees across cultures
to be connected and empowered and reach their full potential. This ERG includes
our African Heritage Forum (AHF), Asian Society for Inclusion and Awareness
(ASIA), Hispanic Organization for Leadership and Advancement (HOLA), and
Middle Eastern Employee Resource Group (MEERG) chapters.
Friends of Veterans Network
Fosters a community of veterans and veteran-minded employees at Edwards to
enhance employee engagement, drive veterans’ talent strategy and serve the
veterans community.
Generations
Supports issues around work/life integration, parenting, elder care and family
caregiving. Chapters include Fertility, Adoption, and Fostering HOPE; Working
Parents; and NexGen (early career professionals).
Rainbow Alliance
Creates a community of LGBTQ+ members and allies that fosters employee
engagement and diversity of thought within Edwards through education, support,
visibility and advocacy; together, striving to cultivate an environment of acceptance
and respect for all employees.
Enable
Supports employees directly and indirectly affected by disabilities, identify ways to
recruit and employ individuals affected by disabilities.
ERGs provide effective levers to engage and support our diverse employees. Research has shown that ERG and mentor program participants
are more likely to perceive Edwards positively. The ERGs also provide avenues for Edwards employees to engage with communities,
particularly groups within communities with whom we might not have otherwise connected.
Preventing unconscious bias
Unconscious bias refers to the underlying beliefs, perceptions and assumptions we develop based on our past experiences. They can frame
the way we look at the world. As Edwards advances our culture of inclusion, it is important we educate employees around the identification
and adjustment of unconscious biases in the workplace. Building on our achievement of diversity training for all of our executive and senior
leadership team members and their direct reports, our new goal is that by 2022, all global employees will complete unconscious bias training
and new hires will complete the training within six months of their start date.
Edwards’ commitment to employees and fair and equitable pay
Edwards tracks remuneration patterns among our employees worldwide, and we continually look for ways to ensure fair and equitable pay
practices. Our ELT and Board recognize that fair and equitable pay is integral to achieving our goal of being a preferred employer. Please
review 
Edwards’ Commitment to Fair and Equitable Pay
 policy for information on our approach, governance and the Global Career
Framework. We have taken a number of steps toward our efforts on pay equity in the U.S. and developed plans that detail our strategy for
working toward pay equity in our global locations.
57 of 92Family Support and Benefits
To best meet the needs of our employees, we continually evolve our programs to provide a robust benefits package for our diverse and
growing population. In addition to periodically reviewing the market to understand the competitive landscape, we conduct research and
analysis on emerging trends, as well as the legislative landscape that can directly impact the benefit programs we offer to employees. In the
U.S., as of 2018, Edwards provides all employees – hourly and salaried – with 100 percent of their salary for six weeks of disability leave, even
though not all U.S. states require it.
Edwards offers subsidized offsite day care services to full-time employees. There are two “arms” of this benefit:
Total Wellness at Edwards
Edwards believes that better health leads to better performance, and the company ensures that we regularly sponsor wellness initiatives for
employees. Edwards also offers a competitive employee benefits package that includes health and welfare insurance, health savings
accounts and on-site programs.
Six pillars for total wellness
Edwards has six pillars for total wellness: Prevention, Nutrition, Physical Activity, Education, Financial Fitness, and Community Service. We
offer many programs to support our team members within each pillar. Please see our 
2019 Total Wellness Lookbook
 for some of our
offerings.
Some of our global wellness programs include:
All benefits and wellness programs are reviewed annually, and recommendations made to our Administrative and Investment Committee for
their review and approval.
We aim to offer a high performing, cost-effective healthcare program that encourages a healthy workforce. We hope to move employees from
passively consuming health care services to owning their health and wellness. We participate in custom industry surveys to benchmark our
programs to ensure these programs remain competitive. In addition, each region prioritizes and reviews their risk factors and develops
programs to address their specific health population needs.
Wellness and charity
Edwards offers opportunities for employees to support charity as they work toward their fitness goals. We have Fitness + Charity Challenges
that run most of the year and are open to all U.S. employees. After employees meet their fitness goals, Total Wellness donates proceeds to
support designated charitable organizations, such as the American Red Cross.
Back-up Care
Bright Horizons helps identify back-up dependent care options.  All U.S. employees can receive center-
based back-up childcare, as well as in-home care.
1
.
Additional Family Support
The Additional Family Support program is a resource to identify center-based and in-home care options
for short-term and/or long-term care needs, with a variety of benefits available to employees.
2
.
Preventive health exams and screenings
Financial education classes
Physical and mental health education seminars
Flu vaccinations
58 of 92Workplace health & safety
At Edwards, we are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all of our employees, visitors and guests who frequent our
facilities. We believe that a safe and healthy workplace not only helps prevent injuries, but it also helps us recruit, retain and engage talented
employees while driving employee satisfaction. Please see our 
Workplace health & safety
 section and supplemental 
Environment Health &
Safety
 (EHS) report for more.  Our safety record is in the top quartile of performance for our industry. Our two safety goals are: 1) by 2025,
achieve a 35 percent reduction in injury rates and 2) implement an Occupational Health & Safety Management System consistent with ISO
45001 and ISO 45001 standards at all our manufacturing locations by 2023. These goals align with SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic
Growth.
Edwards focuses on workplace design, early intervention and overall prevention of injuries and illnesses. We track and report injury rates and
consistently perform favorably when compared with our industry benchmarks. We strive to ensure employees who are injured on the job
receive appropriate medical care to help them recover and return to work in a healthy and productive manner. Edwards has not experienced a
work-related fatality by either full-time employees, temporary hires or on-site contractors since we began operating as an independent
business in 2000. Please see our annual 
EHS Report 
for more detailed occupational injury and illness prevention strategies and ergonomics
program.
Annual performance
Engaging employees in sustainability
In 2019, we continued making progress toward our goal to engage employees in sustainability efforts. This goal aligns with SDG 8: Decent
Work and Economic Growth and SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production. In 2019, as part of our materiality refresh assessment,
we engaged 13 stakeholder groups, including employees, through nearly 50 interviews. We also conducted surveys for employees and
patients and received nearly 1,000 responses. For more information on our materiality assessment, please see our 
Materiality & Stakeholder
Engagement
 section.
Ninety percent of professional employees who responded to our 2019 employee engagement survey reported participating in charitable
activities within the past 12 months. These results support our goal to drive Edwards’ aspiration of 100 percent global employee participation in
charitable activity with participation goals of 100 percent for the SLT and an increase in global participation as measured by the employee
engagement survey. Not only are most of our employees having a positive impact on our community, but we have also detected a relationship
between charitable activity participation and how our employees perceive working at Edwards. Those who indicated they participated in
charitable activities have significantly higher engagement results than those that did not participate. In addition to being more engaged, those
that participated in charitable activities also reported a higher sense of patient focus, culture and belonging. These results support our goal to
have a highly engaged workforce that exceeds industry, region and high performing benchmarks for employee engagement.
Edwards is dedicated to the communities that matter most to employees and encourages employees to participate in charitable events and
take advantage of our company matching donation program to increase charitable giving. For more information, please see our 
Volunteerism
& Giving
 section.
Patients first
In 2019, we shared patient stories and interactions with the vast majority of our employees at Edwards’ regional headquarters and
manufacturing facilities. To estimate the number of employees who experienced a patient story, we rely on the leaders of each regional office
and plant to assess the types of patient exposure methods used at their respective sites. We estimate that 96 percent of our global employees
were able to experience at least one patient story in 2019, and believe the majority had the opportunity to interact with multiple stories during
the year. This goal aligns to SDG 3: Good Health & Well-Being. In our 2019 employee survey, 90 percent of employees agreed that at
Edwards, we consider what is important to patients when making decisions. Below are some examples of our 2019 “patients first” activities:
59 of 92Training & leadership development initiatives
In 2019, we continued our global coaching program at Edwards. The program has been highly successful, reflecting a nearly 12 percent
improvement over the last year. This places Edwards in the top 25 percent of organizations at 17 points above the benchmark. A score in this
range indicates that employees are more satisfied and engaged when compared to employees at other organizations. The ability to leverage a
globally scalable solution like the Edwards Global Coaching program enables Edwards to be more agile and provide more opportunities for
coaching at all levels of the organization. It’s highly individualized, offering the ability for employees to receive coaching with the ability to have
people coached in their language of choice and meetings people where they are in their development and career journey.
Critical Jobs Development initiative
In 2019, we implemented several talent development programs and activities designed for critical talent populations. Several of these were
pilot programs launched globally across business groups to help target critical focus areas and measure business impact. We designed
communications strategies customized for each business group, as well as strategies to build leadership relationships and accelerate
emerging leaders’ development. We expanded mentoring programs to connect protégés with a range of mentors during speed sessions, in
addition to formal one-on-one mentors. We rolled out specific courses geared toward senior leaders including advanced presentation and
communications skills for executives. We launched a variety of learning sessions to build key technical competencies and to support
collaborative development and sharing of key technical and business knowledge. Additionally, we created career workshops for people leaders
to help them understand key motivators for professionals based on their life experiences, generation, etc.
Moving forward, we will further focus efforts around specific, critical jobs within each of the employee segments, including:
Talent Development Review (TDR)
In 2019, we implemented a new, standardized, system-enabled TDR process across the company to increase Edwards’ ability to strategically
manage talent around the globe, supporting compelling and successful employee careers. The implementation included leveraging our new
technology platform to better track employee career goals, competencies, progress and performance. We also re-evaluated and aligned the
definitions and criteria we use for different talent pools to ensure consistency across the business. These new enhancements and process
efficiencies will help us to:
The annual meetings for field personnel are mandatory and patient stories and/or in-person patient
testimonials are a content item at each
During regional all-employee meetings, employees engage with patients, including through patient
videos and panels featuring physicians and local Edwards representatives discussing patient care
Employees, both salaried and hourly, at our regional offices and manufacturing facilities are provided
time away from their roles to attend the employee meetings where patient stories are always featured
Our online platforms including NewHeartValve.com and ReachForTheHeart.com include patient stories
Leveraging skill set inventory heatmap data to identify emerging needs, successor pipeline and talent
development project prioritization
Creating success profiles for each critical job
Developing assessment tools and resources for each critical job
Identify and evaluate top talent and create relevant action plans
Enhance bench strength of core talent through career development and employee lifecycle strategies
Align business strategy and talent strategy
Identify key capabilities
60 of 92Mentoring programs
In 2019, we expanded our mentoring activities beyond the existing formal mentoring programs, to also include opportunities for flash, speed
and circles mentoring.  Traditional mentoring programs offer one-to-one pairing of mentor and protégé and a targeted six- to twelve-month
program to address a specific business need. These additional modes of mentoring allow employees to receive just-in-time and/or specific
development without having to be in a formal program. We offer flash and speed mentoring programs at Edwards offices around the world.
Circles mentoring is coordinated in a small group cohort format over time that creates a support system for skill and leadership development
and ideal for scaling across employee populations.  We have implemented Circles programs in University Relations and in our women’s ERG,
Edwards Network of Women.
Human Resource Technology
As Edwards continues to grow, our global Human Resources team is on a journey to enhance the experience of our valued employees. Our
first investment was to upgrade our HR technology, as it plays a major role in our ability to empower our employees to better manage their
careers and find answers to their HR-related questions quickly and easily.
In November 2019, we launched an all new “myHR” system that had been carefully designed to facilitate an elevated employee experience
through:
Since the launch of the myHR experience, approximately 87 percent of our employees have accessed myHR and just over 55 percent of those
employees leveraged one or more of the self-service capabilities that our new technology has to offer. Throughout the course of 2020, we will
continue to introduce new features and functionality as a way to further enhance our system capabilities and improve our employees’
experience with our HR systems.
Diversity & inclusion
In 2019, Edwards signed the 
CEO Action Pledge for Diversity and Inclusion
. This pledge demonstrates our commitment to advancing diversity
and inclusion within our organization and recognizing that change starts at the executive level.
In 2019, we expanded the Employee Resource Groups (ERG) network within the six ERG categories: Multi-Cultural, Friends of Veterans,
Generations, Edwards Network of Women, Edwards Rainbow Alliance and Enable. We held a Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Summit to expand
our ERG capabilities, share best practices and provide internal networking opportunities. We now have 11 ERGs and 29 chapters with
established budgets and enhanced tools and resources. Our E.NOW group launched the Amplify Global Development program reaching its
initial target of 200 participants. E.NOW also piloted 12 mentoring circles and flash mentoring with nearly 100 participants. We also launched
an internal editorial campaign featuring women leaders from across the company sharing career insights to inspire and empower women to
further their development.
We also conducted a global D&I survey that sought input to inform our strategy and direction. Through the survey we confirmed We were able
to confirm that over half of our employees are aware of and participating in ERGs. The survey also provided insight that informed programming
development, such as mentoring, networking leadership and skill building programs. We look to build upon our strong foundation and focus our
efforts on longer-term strategy development and actions.
Our diversity and inclusion goals are to achieve year-over-year positive trending globally of women in leadership positions, and to achieve year-
over year positive trending in ethnically diverse talent in leadership positions in the U.S. In addition, we plan to continue expanding our ERG
programs, initiatives and resources. For example, E.NOW has plans to further expand and evolve its Amplify Global Development program
and Mentoring Circles in 2020.
Robust search capabilities so our employees can easily find answers to all of their HR questions
24/7 mobile access to make our system and data available anytime, anywhere
One-stop-shop for our employees to centrally manage and update their personal information
A simplified and streamlined process to manage all phases of the HR lifecycle (e.g., recruitment,
compensation, talent management and learning) within a single system
61 of 92Global employees by gender in 2019
Global employees by type in 2019
62 of 92U.S. employees by ethnicity in 2019
*In 2019, we included ethnicity data for Puerto Rico along with the rest of the United States.
Women’s ranks in leadership globally*
As part of our CEO’s performance management objectives, we measure the number of female people leaders that are at the level of Sr.
Manager and above with the goal of year-over-year positive trending globally of women in leadership positions.  We monitor this specific
population because these roles have strong influence over the culture and future success at Edwards.  Our people leaders at Sr. Manager and
above are responsible for leading and making decisions regarding our talent. These people leaders impact company culture through their
leadership responsibilities related to hiring, engagement and development of our employees.  We consistently monitor our performance on this
metric to ensure that we have the diverse perspectives necessary among our leadership ranks to fuel our innovation, solve patients’ unmet
healthcare needs and continue to stay agile in a rapidly evolving industry.
2019 %
2018 %
2017 %
2016 %
Women in Leadership
33
32
31
30
*Senior manager and above female people leaders globally. Note the percentage change also reflects a year-over-year growing employee
population.
In addition, we annually benchmark our performance utilizing select McKinsey data sets. While we include the proportion of female people
managers in our CEO’s performance objectives, the McKinsey report includes all women in management (including those who do not manage
people). For 2019, our comparable female leadership population was equal to or exceeded the benchmark average in 4 of 5 levels when
compared to the McKinsey Women in the Workplace Report 2019.
Summer externship program
In coordination with the community organizations Girls Inc. of Orange County, 100 Black Men of Orange County and Achievement Institute of
Scientific Studies, we continued our annual summer externship program for underrepresented high school aged students. In 2019, 20
students participated in the externship program and had the opportunity to shadow Edwards employees from several functional areas of the
company. In addition, we provided students with development programs focused on soft skills, career panel discussions and speed
networking workshops.  Through the summer externship program, we aim to connect underrepresented groups with job experience, and to
strengthen the Edwards talent pipeline.
63 of 92Preventing unconscious bias
In 2019, we launched Cultivate Curiosity: Unconscious Bias e-learning giving employees flexibility in modality and location. Achieving Edwards'
patient-focused innovation strategy requires an inclusive culture where our employees can bring their best ideas to solve challenges and
achieve business goals. The role of our leaders is to understand the power of leveraging diversity of thought within teams to encourage
innovation to emerge at every level of the company. Objectives of the course include:
As of 2019, 100 percent of ELT, SLT and their Director and above direct reports completed the Unconscious Bias Training. Our current goal
states: by 2022, all global employees will have completed unconscious bias training, and new hires complete the training within six months of
employment.
Family support and benefits
We realize that starting a family is a very important time in life, so we strive to provide a variety of programs that support employees and their
families. Within the past year, we have expanded and enhanced our program offerings to support the needs of our employees. Effective
January 2020, our Parental Leave Program was expanded to include 12 weeks of 100 percent paid leave.
In 2020, we plan to further enhance our Back-up Care program with Bright Horizons to include an extra 10 back up care days for a total of 30
days per year. We will also introduce a new maternity program to support families through pre-pregnancy, during pregnancy and post
pregnancy.
Tuition assistance program
Edwards continues to offer employees tuition assistance for educational programs. We are experiencing an
increase in the utilization of this benefit.
 U.S. Employees Participating*
2019
%
2018
%
2017
%
Hourly Non-Exempt
26
< 1
16
< .1
17
< .1
Salaried Exempt Employees
123
3.6
119
2.6
99
3.7
Salaried Non-Exempt
32
3.6
33
2.7
25
3.1
*As of December 2019
Identify Bias
: Understand the neuroscience behind bias, build awareness and recognize the impact of
bias on behavior and decision-making.
Choose Courage
: Increase cultural competency skills to work effectively across similarities and
differences.
Cultivate Curiosity
: Develop the skillset of curiosity and empathy to build connections, mitigate bias and
accelerate performance and that of others.
64 of 92Parental leave
In 2019, Edwards continued to offer all U.S. employees the opportunity to take parental leave.
 
Male
Female
 
2019
2018
2017
2016
2019
2018
2017
2016
U.S. employees 40 or under**
1305
1,102
1,022
1,291
1535
1,266
1,154
1,565
Employees who took parental leave
93
43
37
26
126
111
129
101
Employees who returned from
leave
93
43
37
25
126
108
123
97
Employees still employed within 12
months after leave*
84
39
34
23
118
107
116
91
Return to work rate
100%
100%
100%
96%
100%
97%
95%
96%
1-year retention rate
90%
91%
92%
88%
94%
96%
90%
90%
*As of December 31, 2019
**As of June 2020
Total Wellness
Every year, Edwards becomes stronger in our mission to improve health—starting with our workforce. In 2015 and 2016, 93 percent of U.S.
Edwards employees participated in free biometrics screenings. Participation in this program increased to 94 percent for 2017/2018 and again
in 2018/2019. Please note that our program year runs from July 2018 through June 2019.
U.S. wellness numbers 2018-2019
U.S. Employee Participation in Biometric Screenings
94%
U.S. Employees Enrolled in an Edwards-Sponsored Medical Plan
90%
Health Costs Per Employee Per Year (PEPY)
2.6% under market PEPY
During 2019, Edwards continued to encourage employees to take incremental steps to improve their overall well-being through programs such
as Total Wellness and Know Your Numbers. In 2019, we met our goal to offer and encourage participation in programs aligning with all six
Total Wellness pillars at 100 percent of locations with more than 100 employees. In these locations, we offered programs and resources
covering all six Wellness pillars in the 2018/2019 program year. Locations with under 100 employees selected an area of focus specific to their
population health needs and implemented corresponding programs and resources. For more information, please see page 50 in our 
2019
EHS Report
.
Wellness and charity
In 2019, our Wellness + Charity programs made great strides. Edwards employees took 940,430,828 steps and donated $10,000 to American
Heart Association. More than 630 employees completed at least 12 workouts per month for our Workout + Charity program, donating $10,000
to the American Red Cross.
65 of 92Workplace Safety
Edwards has a strong commitment to preventing and reducing employee injuries. We track incident rates to improve our manufacturing
practices and promote a safe workforce. From 2018 to 2019, our global recordable injury rate and our global lost time incident rate continued
to decrease due to focused efforts related to our ergonomics program. Additionally, we are exceeding our 2020 target to beat our medical
industry recordable incident rate (RIR) benchmark by 25 percent.
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Global Lost Time Injury Rate Over Time (Days away from work cases per 100 employees)
 
0.20
0.62
0.42
0.32
0.36
0.35
0.51
0.49*
0.33*
Global Recordable Case (Injury) Rate Over Time (Cases per 100 employees)
 
0.78
1.83
1.42
1.28
1.13
1.23
0.99
1.04
.79
Edwards defines a recordable injury as any work-related injury requiring treatment beyond first aid, as defined in the US OSHA recordkeeping
standard 29 CFR 1904. For corporate reporting purposes, this definition is applied at all Edwards locations, regardless of local agency
reporting guidelines. Edwards defines a lost-time case as any work-related injury that results in a full day or more away from work, in
accordance with the U.S. OSHA recordkeeping standard 29 CFR 1904. Please see our 
EHS Report
 for more information on Workplace Health
& Safety performance in 2019.
External recognition for 2019 Employer of Choice 
Awards
Edwards ranks #25 in WSJ “Management Top 250” and received “All Star” designation
Edwards ranks #1 in industry and #15 overall on 2019 “JUST 100” (
Forbes
 magazine)
Edwards honored as 2020 Most Ethical Company (Ethisphere, 2019 data)
Edwards ranks #38 on the 100 Best Corporate Citizens List in 2018 (
Corporate
Responsibility
 magazine)
Edwards named as one of America’s Best Large Employers in 2019 (
Forbes
 magazine)
Edwards ranked as one of America’s Best-in-State Employers 2019 for both California and Utah
(
Forbes
 magazine)
Edwards ranked as one of Best Employers for New Graduates 2019 (
Forbes
 magazine)
Edwards ranks #23 on Forbes 2019 America’s Most Innovative Leaders list
Edwards CEO honored as one of the Best-Performing CEOs in the World (#12, 
Harvard Business
Review
, 2019)
66 of 92Sustainability report
Volunteerism & giving
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to encourage volunteerism and giving supports our 
aspiration
 of passionate engagement that strengthens our
communities.
Definition
Dedicating time, talent and resources to communities where Edwards’ employees live and work, and supporting community health and well-
being. Our volunteerism and giving work centers around increasing 
Access to Healthcare
, another material topic.
GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 413-1, GRI 413-2  
Management approach
Edwards Lifesciences believes our work can inspire hope and contribute to better lives for our patients, employees and communities. The
prioritization of volunteerism and giving is an important part of our corporate culture. Many of our employees feel personally connected to our
philanthropy and identify this commitment as a key reason why they are proud to work at Edwards.
Philanthropy at Edwards Lifesciences
As part of our commitment to our global community, we provide philanthropic support to important health-related and community causes,
which is one of the defining elements of our culture. Through our 
Global Corporate Giving
 program, Edwards Lifesciences Foundation
supports advancements in knowledge and improvements in quality of life. We leverage our expertise in structural heart disease and critical
care monitoring to elevate the impact of our philanthropy efforts. These initiatives include 
grants from the Edwards Lifesciences Foundation
,
strong employee volunteerism
, 
donation of our medical innovations
 
corporate donations
 and 
employee gift matching
 from our Foundation. We
support several employee matching gift programs including dollar-for-dollar match for all employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, an additional
match for employees serving in leadership positions with non-profits, and an additional match for our United Way Giving Campaign. The
purpose and goals of our philanthropy include:
At our corporate headquarters in Irvine, California, we open our facilities to host programs, fundraisers and meetings for local nonprofit
organizations, such as United Way and American Heart Association. We also provide externships for members of local organizations such as
Girls Inc. and Achievement Institute of Scientific Studies and regularly bring students onto our campuses to tour and learn about what it means
to work in medical technology and understand the paths our employees took to get where they are today.
Our foundation and philanthropy work take special care to navigate international granting dynamics and maintain compliance with reporting
requirements related to healthcare professionals.
Improve the lives of underserved patients by increasing access to healthcare and our donated
technologies
Execute our 
Every Heartbeat Matters
 philanthropic initiative with a goal to improve the lives of 2.5 million
underserved structural heart and critical care patients by the end of 2025
Inspire passionate employee engagement
Strengthen the communities in which our employees live and work
Live by the principles of Edwards Lifesciences’ Credo
67 of 92Employee volunteerism & giving
Edwards’ employees are caring individuals with a shared focus to improve lives. We have a strong, employee-led culture of giving and
volunteerism supported by an authentic commitment that spans from leadership across all employee populations. We encourage and provide
occasional opportunities for our employees to participate in giving activities during their workday. We have an aspiration that 100 percent of our
global employees will participate in a charitable activity of their choice each year with specific participation goals of 100 percent for the SLT and
an increase in global participation as measured by the Employee Engagement survey.
Edwards’ Strengthen Our Community committees are cross-functional groups of passionate employees dedicated to living Edwards’ Credo of
“creating a community unified in its mission to improve the quality of life around the world.” These committees organize our volunteerism
efforts globally, connecting Edwards’ volunteers with organizations that are addressing community needs. Each committee is empowered to
volunteer their time and talents according to both local community needs and the interest of employees in their region. Notably, Edwards
provides platforms, tools and resources for our employees to find a way of giving back that is meaningful and relevant to them.
Edwards’ culture of giving also comes to life through our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), organizations that lead communities of
employees from similar backgrounds/interest areas in representing that employee group in the community. You can find more information
about our ERGs in our 
Talent Management
 section of this report.
The Edwards Lifesciences Foundation
The 
Edwards Lifesciences Foundation
 strengthens and supports our passion for helping people around the world. This governance map
outlines the Foundation’s governance structure.
Governance map
In 2020, as many people face tremendous hardship from the COVID-19 pandemic, we will be more focused than ever on funding basic safety
net initiatives to help people struggling the most. See our initial giving response to COVID-19 
here
.
68 of 92Annual performance
Employee volunteerism and giving
Our employee engagement in philanthropic activities is truly global. For example, in 2019, more than 600 Edwards employees from the JAPAC
region gathered in Bali, Indonesia, for a regional meeting, where they volunteered their time for the Bali Children Foundation. They made school
kits, including stationery and backpacks, and contained donations for shoes, English dictionaries and other educational support. Likewise, our
teams in Australia and New Zealand, undertook several hours of community work through a local charity dedicated to creating opportunities for
disadvantaged children and their families and encourage them to participate more fully in society, using education as a key tool. In the
Dominican Republic, employees volunteered their time with 2Ft Prosthetics Foundation where they collaborated in building and donating 25
protheses to underserved patients who have undergone an amputation of lower limbs.
Edwards is energized by our work to support those in need and we seek to embed this spirit throughout our culture by encouraging our
employees to give back. In our employee engagement survey, 77 percent of our global employees reported they participated in at least one
charitable activity in the past 12 months. That rate increases to 90 percent participation from our professional employees in 2019. Every year,
we seek to inspire more charitable activity with an aspiration of reaching 100 percent participation each year, including our Executive and
Senior Leadership Teams.
Not only are the vast majority of our employees having a positive impact on our community, but we have also identified a relationship between
charitable activity participation and how our employees perceive working at Edwards. Those who indicated they participated in charitable
activities have significantly higher engagement results. In addition to being more engaged employees, those that participated in charitable
activities also reported a higher sense of patient focus, culture and sense of belonging.
Community activities at many of our global facilities included:
More than 300 employees in Singapore set a remarkable record, packing 80,000 meals for
underprivileged communities in Timor-Leste through the Rise Against Hunger International Organization
Our employees in Haina, Dominican Republic, delivered and installed 17 donated laptops in Brisas del
Eden for educating children of the community in computer sciences
Through Free Wheelchair Mission, our employees in Costa Rica assembled and donated 40
wheelchairs for people with disabilities
Employees in Australia trekked 135 kilometers over 5 days with friends to raise funds and awareness
with Zero2Hero for youth mental health and suicide prevention, allowing 80 young people to attend camp
and become mental health champions
More than 1,500 employees in Korea partnered with Korea Heart Foundation on a walkathon event, “One
More Step,” driving awareness on heart disease in Korea
Nearly 40 employees from our Asian Society for Inclusion and Awareness ERG volunteered their time
assembling 200 toiletry kits for the families of Children’s Hospital of Orange County patients to help with
unexpected hospital stays
In Israel, employees collected and donated school supplies, including schoolbags, pencil cases,
notebooks and lunch boxes, for low income first-grade children
In Canada, employees raised funds and hosted a food donation drive for Eden of Change food bank,
serving families and individuals facing hunger
In the U.S. at our Irvine headquarters, more than 140 employees assembled 500 post-operative patient
care packages for underserved patients who benefit from our Foundation's Every Heartbeat Matters
partners
69 of 92At least 45 Edwards leaders serve as members of more than 50 various non-profit Boards of Directors, helping to strategically guide the
mission and impact of community organizations across the globe. Edwards continues to offer a Board Training Program, where anyone
serving on a board can receive training on how to be an impactful board member, including an overview of non-profit governance, strategy and
financials. At the end of the training, interested employees can then be matched to opportunities with local, national or international non-profit
organizations that need their individual skills on their Board.
The Edwards Lifesciences Foundation
In 2019, Edwards Lifesciences Foundation encouraged applicants of the Community Grant program to apply for grants that strengthen the
community and leverage employee donated time and talent. Grants issued in the Community Grant program are generally smaller, with an
average amount of $5,000. Grants are issued to non-profit organizations that Edwards has multi-faceted relationships with, where we are
most often not just providing grant support, but also volunteering our time, serving as a Board member or advisory member, and donating
supplies via supply drives. In 2019, Edwards contributed $7.8 million in 
cash grants from our Foundation
, of which more than $2.4 million were
community grants. Including other cash, admin and product donations, corporate giving in 2019 totaled $11.1 million.
Further leveraging our relationships with these non-profit organizations, in 2019, the Foundation launched a new Volunteer Grant Program
intended to encourage more Edwards employees to give back their time and talent to the community. This program accepts grant invitations,
in partnership between an Edwards employee and a non-profit organization, to help off-set small costs related to community service projects.
This program offers an opportunity for Edwards Foundation to drive more impact in our local communities. For example, a team in our Irvine
office volunteered to rejuvenate an outdoor patio and garden for Human Options, a local housing facility for victims of domestic violence. Our
Foundation donated funds to purchase the tools, soil, plants and flowers to bring the garden back to life for those families in need.
Additionally, we align our Foundation giving with employee engagement through our foundation’s employee matching gift program, which
matches donations to non-profit organizations up to $5,000 per employee each year. In 2019, we matched more than $650,000 in employee
giving through this program.
Every Heartbeat Matters
Our philanthropic initiative, Every Heartbeat Matters (EHM), focuses on impacting the lives of underserved patients.
By partnering with more than 
60 patient- and cardiac-focused charitable partners around the world
, we have invested more than $30 million
and countless hours of employees' dedication to create the EHM community.
We rigorously measure and report the performance of this initiative to ensure our data accurately reflect our impact in underserved
populations. Between 2014-2020, the EHM community has impacted the global burden of heart valve disease by educating, screening and
treating over 1.7 million underserved people, surpassing the initial goal of 1 million.  Additionally,
Based on the accumulated knowledge and experience over the past six years on how to have the greatest impact on patients, Edwards is
focused on its 
next phase of EHM
 with our new, bold goal: We will improve the lives of 2.5 million additional underserved structural heart and
critical care patients by the end of 2025. For more on EHM, please see our 
dedicated web page
.
More than 38,000 clinicians received education to elevate heart care for underserved patients
Nearly 165,000 hearts have been screened by humanitarian care
8,700 underserved people have received heart valve treatment
The initiative has reached underserved people in 46 countries
70 of 92Sustainability report
Environment
Edwards Lifesciences conducts business with care and respect for the environment. Our environmental annual performance is captured in
our 
Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) Report
. This report covers all of our business operations and contains our management approach
and annual performance for the following material topics:
Our 
governance map
 illustrates the accountability structure for managing Environmental Health and Safety, including Energy and Emissions,
Waste, Water and Environmental Compliance.
Governance map
Energy & emissions
Waste
Water
Environmental compliance
71 of 92Edwards Annual Titanium Awards
Recognizes Ethical Employees
Each year, the Ethics and Compliance team at Edwards invite all
employees to nominate their colleagues for the Titanium Awards.
This annual award recognizes employees who:
Employees are recognized in four regions: USA, Latin America,
Asia Pacific, and Europe/Middle East/Africa/Canada. Winners are
selected by members of the Ethics and Compliance team with input
from the regional business. A global winner is then selected from
the regional winners.
The awards are presented during Edwards’ Titanium Day events
held at multiple Edwards locations around the world. All winners
receive an Edwards Heart Award, a framed certificate and local
recognition by a senior leader.
The global winner is invited to receive the Global Titanium Award
trophy from Edwards’ CEO at an all-employee meeting held at
Edwards’ headquarters in Irvine, California, USA.Sustainability report
Highlight Stories
have gone above and beyond in their
commitment to Edwards’ ethical principles as
described in the Edwards’ Global Business
Practice Standards, the ‘
Titanium Book
’
by conducting business with honesty and
integrity, as well as obeying all laws and
regulations
by treating colleagues with fairness and
respect in a safe work environment
by committing to being productive and
respectful members of the communities
where they do business
by acting in the best interests of
Edwards and its shareholders,
communicating effectively with
shareholders and protecting the
Company’s assets
exhibit courageous commitment to these
ethical principles daily
72 of 92Engagement on Independent
Chairman Stockholder Proposal
In 2019, a stockholder proposed that Edwards separate the
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer positions to
require that the Chairman position be held by an independent
director. 
The stockholder wrote that the proposal was required
because Edwards did not have a lead independent director at the
time and an independent Chairman would be best able to build up
the oversight capabilities of the Board
Edwards recommended against this proposal for many reasons
including that, in response to stockholder feedback, it had already
created a Lead Independent Director role, with duties that included,
among other things, approving Board meeting agendas and
schedules, providing feedback to management and advice to the
CEO and participating in the company’s stockholder outreach. 
In
addition, all members of the Board were already independent
directors, other than the CEO, with Board committees comprised
solely of independent directors. 
As set forth in the Corporate
Governance Guidelines, the independent directors evaluated the
Board’s leadership on a regular basis and assessed the
performance of the Lead Independent Director annually. 
Further, the
independent directors spent time with company executives and had
the freedom to access all employees and make site visits to meet
local management.
The Board believed, and continues to believe, that the current
leadership structure is in the best interest of Edwards since it
provides strong independent oversight from a Lead Independent
Director and strong leadership and continuity of expertise in
Edwards business operations and governance from the Chairman.
For more details, please see Proposal 4 to the 
2019 Proxy
Statement
, pp. 60-62, DEF 14A, filed 3/27/2019.
Every Heartbeat Matters Aims
Seeks to Improve the Lives of 2.5
million Additional Undeserved
Patients by 2025
Emmanuel Martin is a 15-year-old young man born and raised in the
rural mountains of southwestern Haiti, where he lives with his
parents and older brother. In January 2019, after years of worsening
heart valve symptoms, Emmanuel was diagnosed by Every
Heartbeat Matters partner, Haiti Cardiac Alliance, with a severely
damaged mitral valve as a result of rheumatic fever. In May 2019,
he traveled to Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, where he
underwent open-heart surgery by Dr. David Adams and The Mitral
Foundation, another Every Heartbeat Matters parter. Emmanuel
was treated with two donated Edwards heart valve repair rings
(Cosgrove-Edwards Annuloplasty Band and Carpentier-Edwards
Classic Annuloplasty Tricuspid Ring) and has since successfully
73 of 92recovered. He has returned to school in the eighth grade and is
particularly interested in math and science. In February 2020,
Emmanuel traveled to Edwards corporate headquarters in Irvine,
California, to share his journey and help Edwards learn about more
ways its philanthropy can help underserved patients like himself,
who face multiple social and economic barriers to care.
In 2014, Edwards launched Every Heartbeat Matters (EHM), a
philanthropic initiative that focuses on impacting the lives of
underserved patients. Based on the accumulated knowledge and
experience over the past six years on how to have the greatest
impact on patients, Edwards is launching its next phase of EHM that
aims to
EHM has a new bold goal – to improve the lives of 2.5 million
additional underserved structural heart and critical care patients by
the end of 2025. Learn about more patients like Emmanuel and
Every Heartbeat Matters at 
EveryHeartbeatMatters.org
.
2019 Patient Experience
Empowers Patients to Use Their
Voice
The Patient Experience is about bringing together people who have
benefitted from Edwards Lifesciences technologies, to connect with
our teams, with one another, and with patient organizations. We
engage an intimate group of patients who share their experience
and expertise. Their insights can help Edwards and our partners
have an impact on the lives of future patients.
At this event patient attendees:
broaden the initiative’s focus from heart valve
disease to all structural heart diseases and
critical support;
1
.
impact each stage of the patient journey, from
detection to treatment, with an additional
emphasis on recovery; and
2
.
establish an enhanced product donation
program that provides EHM partners with
access to donated Edwards products to
provide humanitarian treatment for
underserved patients outside the United
States.
3
.
Learn about heart valve and critical care
innovations
Meet Edwards leaders and employees
dedicated to serving the patient community
Participate in discussions to help improve the
74 of 92We hosted dozens of patients and care partners at our global
corporate headquarters to connect patients with each other and to
share more about the people behind their heart valve technologies
and the support services and networks dedicated to the heart
community. Visit our 
Patient Voice site
 to view highlights from our
2019 event.
Through initiatives led by Edwards and our non-profit partners, we
empower patients to use their experience to help themselves and
others and to build a community of patients who care about making
a difference. We support patient organizations around the world
because they are uniquely positioned to provide much-needed
services to patients. 
Whether the organization provides peer-to-
peer training and support, disease awareness and public education,
insights into the patient perspective, advocacy on policy initiatives,
opportunities for our employees to give back to the community, or
efforts to educate and empower patients to advocate on their own
behalf, we are proud to support their efforts to advance people's
health and quality of life.
Edwards PASCAL Transcatheter
System Receives Approval for
Use in Europe
In 2019, our PASCAL transcatheter valve repair system 
received
CE Mark
 for the treatment of patients in Europe with mitral
regurgitation. Mitral valve disease is complex, varied and prevalent,
and patients are in significant need of multiple safe and effective
therapies to treat debilitating symptoms that can lead to a high rate
of mortality. The introduction of the 
PASCAL system
 to clinicians
and patients in Europe provides a differentiated, minimally-invasive
therapy to address the needs of patients with mitral regurgitation.
In early 2020, the PASCAL system also received 
European approval
for the treatment of European patients with tricuspid regurgitation.
"Although the prevalence of tricuspid valve disease and the
associated mortality are high, there are limited effective treatment
options for these very symptomatic patients, who often cannot have
surgery due to the prohibitive risk," said Prof. Jörg Hausleiter, MD,
Medizinische Klinik der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München in
Munich, Germany. "Transcatheter tricuspid therapy can be
challenging due to the fragile leaflets and the large defects during
valve closure. In our experience, the PASCAL system's independent
grasping ability as well as the flexible and less traumatic clasp
design are important features for our patients."
patient-caregiver experience
Tour our manufacturing facility and meet
employees who designed or handcrafted the
patient’s device
Learn how to get involved and play a role in
supporting other patients and caregivers
75 of 92The PASCAL system is one of multiple transcatheter repair or
replacement therapies designed to address mitral and tricuspid
valve diseases that are under development by Edwards. It
represents the culmination of 20 years of innovation by Edwards to
develop a novel, differentiated and advanced platform for patients in
need. 
The company is building upon a long history of knowledge,
experience and commitment to advance transformative therapies
and develop a robust body of clinical evidence
Note: The PASCAL repair system is not approved in the United
States.
Nearly 40 Percent of Employees
Travel to Work by Alternative,
More Energy-Efficient Modes
For employee commuting, nearly 40 percent of our employees
travel to work in alternative, more energy-efficient modes of
transportation such as by bus, carpool or vanpool, hybrid and
electric vehicle, motorcycle, bicycle or other means. Bus
commuters make up approximately 29 percent of our global
workforce. Edwards is proud to provide and sponsor dedicated bus
services to our employees at our three largest manufacturing plants
in Singapore, Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic. Our bus
services provide rides to approximately 3,800 employees to and
from work. This effort reduces single car commuting by almost
55,000,000 kilometers each year.
In Singapore and the Dominican Republic, we provide fully
sponsored, no-cost tour-style coaches and local bus services to
approximately 3,400 employees. In Costa Rica, we provide low cost
subsidized bus services from local suppliers for over 350
employees. This number will likely grow to about 600 employees by
the end of 2020 and continue to increase as our plant in Costa Rica
scales up to full capacity and headcount.
In addition to bus transport,
Edwards supports
alternative commuting
through carpool and
vanpool programs,
commuter train subsidies
and onsite electric-vehicle
charging. Our employee
commuting program offerings vary by site and are tailored to meet
the needs of the local employee population and commuting profile.
For example, at our Irvine, CA headquarters, 102 electric vehicle
charging ports have been installed onsite in Edwards’ parking
structures to support the more than 230 electric-vehicle drivers who
work there. In addition to installing the charging stations, Edwards
promotes the use of electric vehicles by providing our Irvine
employees 2-hours of free charging each day for their vehicles,
which is typically sufficient to power their commutes to and from
work each day. In 2019, these stations had an over 75 percent
utilization rate during workday hours.
76 of 92New International Facilities
Designed to be Eco-Friendly
In 2019, we broke ground on our newest manufacturing plant in
Limerick, Ireland. During our property selection process, we
conducted a thorough evaluation of environmental risks, including
those related to cultural artifacts, protected wildlife and storm water
run-off impacts. This manufacturing plant is designed to be LEED
Platinum certified and nearly all energy will be renewably sourced to
ensure we uphold our commitment to minimize our impact to the
environment.
Also in 2019, we officially opened our state-of-the-art manufacturing
plant in Cartago, Costa Rica, which has grown to almost 700
employees, with an additional 500 planned headcount before the
end of 2020. Our new 25,500 square meter manufacturing plant is
being designed to uphold Costa Rica’s environmental reputation
and Edwards’ commitment to promote this eco-friendly image. In
fact, almost 100 percent of the energy used to operate our new
plant is derived from non-fossil fuel sources, including hydroelectric
and thermal sources of energy, which helps us drive down the
impact of climate change. Technology for the disposal of hazardous
and non-hazardous wastes also allows for waste-to-energy (WTE)
recovery during incineration. Our Costa Rica plant is in the process
to become LEED certified.
Packaging Materials Projects
Reduce Waste by at Least 15
Percent
Environmental considerations are incorporated into Edwards
packaging design, development and qualification processes and
procedures. Our goal is to develop and implement packaging
systems which not only meet our customer and industry
requirements, but also facilitate safer, more efficient and cost-
effective delivery while minimizing our impact to the environment.
Our Packaging Engineering teams are continually searching for and
evaluating options for alternate materials, processes and
sterilization methods that may improve packaging performance
while reducing wastes and air emissions. Environmental packaging
initiatives have resulted in reduced packaging materials and less
waste. In addition, stronger durability, smaller package sizes and
improved pallet configurations have resulted in improvements in
overall shipping efficiencies through our global supply chain
initiatives. In 2019, Edwards completed five significant projects to
achieve our goal of reducing packaging by 15 percent in targeted,
high-volume commercial products, resulting in a total reduction of
150,000 kgs per year of packaging waste (based on current sales
77 of 92volumes). 
Heart valve
packaging previously
required 36 TagAlerts® per
box. Newly redesigned
packaging allows for just
four TagAlerts® per box,
resulting in an 88 percent
packaging weight reduction
and anticipated packaging waste reduction of 2,766 kg per year.
TagAlerts® must be disposed as electronic or hazardous waste in
many countries; therefore, this project reduces both overall
packaging waste and customer regulated waste. 
Packaging used
for interplant shipment of Surgical Structural Heart implant devices
was redesigned from a 24-pack to a 48-pack style. The new design
reduces packaging materials by 32 percent.
ERG Events Serve Local
Communities from Health
Awareness to Back to School
Drives
Edwards aspires to be a global leader dedicated to fostering an
inclusive culture where all employees grow and thrive. Employee
Resource Groups (ERGs) help bring employees with common
interests together where they have an opportunity to share and
connect. Many of our ERGs actively participate in local volunteer
activities supporting and aligning with Edwards’ Strengthen Our
Community focus
In 2019, the African Heritage Forum, part of our Multicultural ERG,
participated in the Spirit of the Heart Community Education & Heath
Fair, the first-ever held in Orange County, in partnership with with
the 
Association of Black Cardiologists, Inc.
(ABC) and the 
National Council of Negro Women
. The Spirit of the
Heart initiative is a community-based program designed to help
community leaders, consumers and others understand the
disparities of cardiovascular disease and raise awareness that
heart disease is preventable with adequate access to care and
heart healthy practices that are essential for optimal living. With a
grant from the 
Edwards Foundation
, ABC along with local
physicians helped bring heart valve disease awareness to
underserved communities in Orange County. The weekend
consisted of a Health & Wellness Fair and a Community Forum
featuring presentations from distinguished guests, experts and
community leaders aiming to close the gap and engage others to
improve their cardiovascular health.
78 of 92Our Enable Disability ERG
celebrated Autism
Awareness Month by
hosting an education and
awareness event featuring
Aaron Likens, an award-
winning public speaker and
author. More than 100
employees attended the
event where they gained
insight from Aaron’s “Five
Most Important Things to
Know About Individuals
Affected by Autism.” In an
effort to leverage the
strength of our diverse
workforce through greater
inclusion, the Enable ERG exists to support employees directly and
indirectly affected by disabilities, identify ways to recruit and employ
individuals affected by disabilities and to support and identify ways
to contribute to the company and community at large. Our Enable
ERG also coordinated volunteer teams to build adaptive tricycles for
individuals with special needs. In partnership with OC Special
Spokes, the top winning teams presented bikes to individuals at the
Enable ERG Disabilities Awareness Month event.
Our Hispanic Organization
for Leadership and
Advancement (HOLA) and
the Middle Eastern
Employee Resource
Group (MEERG) partnered
with Project Hope Alliance
for a back to school drive
in Orange County. More
than 130 volunteers
contributed to the success
of the event and school
supplies were distributed
to children currently enrolled in Kindergarten through 12th grade.
Our employees generosity had a direct impact on the children’s
educational success; empowering them as they began a new
school year. Project Hope Alliance is a non-profit organization with a
mission of “Ending the cycle of homelessness, one child at a time.”
HOLA’s vision is to enhance the talent of all employees, increasing
leadership impact to Edwards and the local Hispanic Community.
MEERG’s mission is to unite individuals empowered by Middle
Eastern culture to cultivate, inspire, and contribute to the community
through personal and leadership development.
79 of 92Total Wellness Inspires
Employees with “Well-Being Your
Way”
As a dancer and cheerleader growing up, Amy Hytowitz, Sr.
Director, Global Communications at Edwards, was active and fit.
However, after two pregnancies and a million delicious life
celebrations, Amy began to move less and eat more, and she
gained a considerable amount of weight. She became sluggish and
increasingly concerned about the effect her unhealthy choices were
having on those around her, including her children. When she joined
Edwards Lifesciences, she saw the healthy choices of her
colleagues and she was inspired to join a local health program
where she met with a health care professional once a week to
review her biometrics, which helped her understand how her
lifestyle habits were affecting her body. She also attended weekly
meetings led by a nutritionist where she learned tips and tricks from
peers who were going through similar journeys. Amy also
committed to exercising 3-4 times a week to stay active. Since
then, she has lost 75 pounds and is motivated to keep going. “This
is a continuous journey but the changes I’ve seen have been
remarkable,” Amy shares. “Not only am I healthier, I’m also
emotionally lighter and I feel like I’m having a positive impact on
those around me.”
Our 
Total Wellness program
 inspires employees to build upon
healthy habits and, in 2019 through its “Well-Being Your Way”
initiative, provided a special focus on mental, cardiovascular and
financial well-being. 
From living an active lifestyle to better nutrition
and managing stress, Total Wellness provided employees with
valuable information to optimize their well-being all year long.
Record Breaking Participation in
AHA 2019 Orange County Heart
Walk
The American Heart Association is an important partner of Edwards
Lifesciences Foundation and we are proud to support their efforts
on lifesaving science and research. The annual OC Heart Walk is
one of our largest volunteer efforts, and in 2019 we were especially
energized by the outpouring of support for this important partner in
our local community. More than 1,150 Edwards employees, family
members and friends came out to donate money and walk or run to
help raise awareness for heart disease and stroke awareness. At
the event, Edwards employees and family members participated in
a 5K walk and/or 5K run. At the Edwards tailgate, children of
employees enjoyed face painting and a balloonist, along with photo-
booths and games for all. In addition, the Edwards choir gave a
heart-warming performance of the National Anthem at the opening
ceremony. Numerous volunteer coaches from 14 business groups
within Edwards led the campaign that raised more than $40,000 ,
which was eligible for the Foundation’s 
employee matching gift
program
.
80 of 92Edwards Employees Serve to
Help Alleviate Hunger Around the
World
During 2019, numerous employees gave of their time and
resources to serve those in need through a variety of organizations
that provide food to communities and families in need. These are a
few examples:
More than 300 team members at Edwards Singapore set a
remarkable record, packing 80,000 meals in less than 1.5 hours for
underprivileged communities in Timor-Leste through the Rise
Against Hunger (RAH) International Organization. The Singapore
team joins other Edwards groups who have partnered with RAH,
including Critical Care, THV Australia and Operations and Quality, to
relieve the global issue of hunger. RAH has been an Edwards non-
profit partner for many years, dedicated to eradicating worldwide
hunger by 2030, and provides packaged nutritious and fortified
meals to people living in extreme poverty. The Singapore event
packed and loaded 373 cases of meals onto vehicles to deliver to
those who truly needed our support. Our employees have many
opportunities to volunteer in their communities through our
Strengthen Our Community
 program, helping us drive towards our
aspiration of 100 percent of Edwards employees participating in at
least one charitable activity every year.
Edwards employees from
Irvine volunteered their
time for Second Harvest
Food Bank of Orange
County. Second Harvest
Food Bank of Orange
County is dedicated to
bringing nourishment and
hope to 290,000 hungry
people throughout Orange
County. The team helped sort and bag 10,000 pounds of red
onions, which helped to feed the hungry children, seniors and
families in Orange County.
Edwards employees in Israel collected and donated food for low
economy families in Or Yehuda. A variety of food was donated such
as sugar, flour, salt, pasta, cookies and more. The donations were
distributed to the families just before the holidays in Israel, so that
they could enjoy the festivities.
81 of 92Sustainability report
GRI content index
General standard disclosures
GRI
indicator
Description
Location/Direct
Answer
Secondary
Link
Additional
Links
Additional
Links
GRI 102-
14
Statement from senior decision-
maker
CEO Letter
Strategy and analysis
GRI 102-1
Name of the organization
Organizational Profile
GRI 102-2
Activities, brands, products, and
services
Organizational Profile
GRI 102-3
Location of headquarters
Organizational Profile
GRI 102-4
Location of operations
Organizational Profile
GRI 102-5
Ownership and legal form
Organizational Profile
GRI 102-6
Markets served
Organizational Profile
GRI 102-7
Scale of the organization
Organizational Profile
GRI 102-8
Information on employees and
other workers
Organizational Profile
Organizational profile
82 of 92GRI 102-
41
Collective bargaining agreements
Organizational Profile
GRI 102-9
Supply chain
Organizational Profile
GRI 102-
10
Significant changes to the
organization and its supply chain
No significant changes to the organization and its supply chain in 2019.
GRI 102-
11
Precautionary Principle or
approach
Not addressed at this
time
GRI 102-
12
External initiatives
Our Approach
GRI 102-
13
Membership of associations
Ethics and Compliance
GRI 102-
45
Entities included in the consolidated
financial statements
2020 Form 10-K,
Exhibit 21.1
GRI 102-
46
Reporting principles for defining
report content
Materiality &
Stakeholder
Engagement
Our Approach
GRI 102-
47
List of material topics
Materiality &
Stakeholder
Engagement
Our Approach
GRI 102-
48
Restatements of information
There are no
restatements of
previous years' data
GRI 102-
49
Changes in reporting
We have no significant
changes.
Identified material topics and boundaries
GRI 102-
40
Stakeholder groups engaged by the
organization
Materiality &
Stakeholder
Engagement
2018
Sustainability
Report
GRI 102-
42
Identification and selection of
stakeholders to engage
Materiality &
Stakeholder
Engagement
2018
Sustainability
Report
Stakeholder engagement
83 of 92GRI 102-
43
Organization's approach to
stakeholder engagement
Materiality &
Stakeholder
Engagement
2018
Sustainability
Report
GRI 102-
44
Key topics and concerns raised
during stakeholder engagements
Materiality &
Stakeholder
Engagement
GRI 102-
50
Reporting period
Calendar year
 
 
 
GRI 102-
51
Date of the last report
July, 2020
 
 
 
GRI 102-
52
Reporting cycle
Annual
 
 
 
GRI 102-
53
Contact point for questions
regarding the report
sustainability@edward
s.com
 
 
 
GRI 102-
54
Claims of reporting in accordance
with the GRI Standards
Our Approach
 
 
 
GRI 102-
55
GRI Content Index
GRI Content Index
 
 
 
GRI 102-
56
External assurance
EHS Report,
Verification Opinion
Statement GHG
Emissions
 
 
 
Report profile
GRI 102-
18
Governance structure
Corporate Governance
GRI 102-
20
Executive-level responsibility for
ESG topics
Corporate Governance
- Governance for
Sustainability
GRI 102-
22
Composition of the highest
governance body and its
committees
2020 Proxy Statement,
page 16-17
,
Corporate
Governance
Committees &
Charters
Corporate
Governance
Guidelines,
page 1
Governance
84 of 92GRI 102-
23
Chair of the highest governance
body
2020 Proxy Statement,
page 8; Corporate
Governance; Board of
Directors
Corporate
Governance
Board of
Directors
GRI 102-
24
Nominating and selecting the
highest governance body
2020 Proxy Statement,
page 5-6
Corporate
Governance
Guidelines,
page 2
GRI 102-
26
Role of highest governance body in
setting purpose, values, and
strategy
2020 Proxy Statement,
page 19-20
GRI 102-
28
Evaluating the highest governance
body's performance
Corporate Governance
2020 Proxy
Statement,
page 6
Corporate
Governance
Guidelines,
page 4
GRI 102-
35
Remuneration policies
2020 Proxy Statement,
pages 30-31, 34-35,
43-44, 49-51, 55
Corporate
Governance
Guidelines,
page 6
Corporate
Governance
GRI 102-
36
Process for determining
remuneration
2020 Proxy Statement,
page 27
GRI 102-
37
Stakeholders' involvement in
remuneration
2020 Proxy Statement,
pages 60, 63
Corporate
Governance
GRI 102-
38
Annual total compensation ratio
2020 Proxy Statement,
page 59; Corporate
Governance
Corporate
Governance
GRI 102-
16
Organization's values, principles,
standards and norms of behavior
Ethics & Compliance
GRI 102-
17
Mechanisms for advice and
concerns about ethics
Ethics & Compliance
Ethics and integrity
85 of 92Specific standard disclosures
GRI
indicator
GRI aspect
Description
Location
Secondary Link
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Economic
Performance
Management Approach
Organizational Profile
GRI 201-1
Economic
Performance
Direct economic value generated and
distributed
Organizational Profile
2019 Annual Report,
page 9
GRI 201-2
Economic
Performance
Financial implications and other risks
and opportunities due to climate change
EHS Report,
Emissions, pages 31-
34
GRI 201-3
Economic
Performance
Defined benefit plan obligations and
other retirement plans
2019 Annual Report,
pages 82-87
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Indirect
Economic
Impacts
Management Approach
Access to Healthcare
GRI 203-2
Indirect
Economic
Impacts
Significant indirect economic impacts
Access to Healthcare
Economic
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Energy
Management Approach
EHS Report
, Energy
page 15
GRI 302-1
Energy
Energy Use
EHS Report
, Energy
page 16-18
GRI 302-3
Energy
Energy Intensity
EHS Report
, Energy
page 16
GRI 302-4
Energy
Reduction of energy consumption
EHS Report
, Energy
page 18-21
Environmental
86 of 92GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Water
Management Approach
EHS Report
, Water,
pages 22
GRI 303-3
Water
Water withdrawal
EHS Report
, Water,
pages 22 and 24
GRI 303-1
Water
Interactions with water as a shared
resource
EHS Report
, Water,
page 22
GRI 303-5
Water
Water consumption
EHS Report
, Water,
page 23-24
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Biodiversity
Management Approach
EHS Report
,
Biodiversity, page 26
GRI 304-1
Biodiversity
Operational sites owned, leased, managed
in, or adjacent to, protected areas and
areas of high biodiversity value outside
protected areas
EHS Report
,
Biodiversity, page 26
GRI 304-2
Biodiversity
Significant impacts of activities, products,
and services on biodiversity
EHS Report
,
Biodiversity, page 26
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Emissions
Management Approach
EHS Report
,
Emissions, pages 27-
28
GRI 305-1
Emissions
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
EHS Report
,
Emissions, page 28
GRI 305-2
Emissions
Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
EHS Report
,
Emissions, page 28
GRI 305-3
Emissions
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
EHS Report
,
Emissions, page 29
GRI 305-4
Emissions
GHG emissions intensity
EHS Report
,
Emissions, page 28
GRI 305-5
Emissions
Reduction of GHG emissions
EHS Report
,
Emissions, pages 29-
30
GRI 305-6
Emissions
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances
(ODS)
EHS Report
,
Emissions, pages 30-
31
GRI 305-7
Emissions
NOx, SOx, and other significant air
emissions
EHS Report
,
Emissions, pages 30-
31
87 of 92GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Effluents and
Waste
Management Approach
EHS Report
, Waste,
pages 35-36
GRI 306-1
Effluents and
Waste
Water discharge by quality and
destination
EHS Report
, Waste,
page 37
GRI 306-2
Effluents and
Waste
Waste by type and disposal method
EHS Report
, Waste,
pages 37-39
GRI 306-3
Effluents and
Waste
Significant spills
EHS Report
, Waste,
page 40
GRI 306-4
Effluents and
Waste
Transport of hazardous waste
EHS Report
, Waste,
page 40
GRI 306-5
Effluents and
Waste
Water bodies affected by water
discharges and/or runoff
EHS Report
, Waste,
page 37
GRI 103-
2, 103-3
Environmental
Compliance
Management Approach
EHS Report
,
Compliance, pages 41-
43
GRI 307-1
Environmental
Compliance
Non-compliance with environmental laws
and regulations
EHS Report
,
Compliance, page 41
GRI 103-
2, 103-3
Supplier
Environmental
Assessment
Management Approach
EHS Report
, Supplier
EHS Assessment,
pages 44-45
GRI 308-1
Supplier
Environmental
Assessment
New suppliers that were screened using
environmental criteria
EHS Report
, Supplier
EHS Assessment,
pages 44-45
SASB
HC-MS-
410a.1
Product
Lifecycle
Discussion of process to assess and
manage environmental and human health
considerations associated with chemicals
in products, and meet demand for
sustainable products
EHS Report
,
Environment
Packaging
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Employment
Management Approach
Talent Management
GRI 401-
2
Employment
Benefits
Talent Management
GRI 401-
3
Employment
Retention rates after parental leave
Talent Management
Social
88 of 92GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Management Approach
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, page 46
GRI 403-
1
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Occupational health and safety management
system
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, page 46
GRI 403-
2
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Hazard identification, risk assessment, and
incident investigation
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, page 47
GRI 403-
3
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Occupational health services
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, page 50
GRI 403-
4
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Worker participation, consultation, and
communication on occupational health and
safety
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, pages 47-48
GRI 403-
5
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Worker training on occupational health and
safety
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, pages 48-49
GRI 403-
6
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Promotion of worker health
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, page 50
GRI 403-
7
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Prevention and mitigation of occupational
health and safety impacts directly linked by
business relationships
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, pages 51-52
GRI 403-
8
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Workers covered by an occupational health
and safety management system
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, pages 50-51
GRI 403-
9
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Work-related injuries
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, pages 50-51
GRI 403-
10
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Work-related ill health
EHS Report
,
Occupational Health and
Safety, pages 50-51
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Training and
Education
Management Approach
Talent Management
GRI 404-
2
Training and
Education
Programs for upgrading employee skills and
transition assistance programs
Talent Management
GRI 404-
3
Training and
Education
Employees receiving regular performance
reviews
Supply Chain
Management
Governance Map
Talent Management
Governance Map
89 of 92GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Diversity and
Equal
Opportunity
Management Approach
Talent Management
GRI 405-
1
Diversity and
Equal
Opportunity
Diversity of governance bodies and
employees
Talent Management
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Non-
Discrimination
Management Approach
Talent Management
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Supplier
Social
Assessment
Management Approach
Supply Chain
Management
GRI 414-
1
Supplier
Social
Assessment
New suppliers that were screened using
social criteria
Supply Chain
Management
EHS Report
, Supplier
EHS Assessment,
pages 44-45
SASB
HC-MS-
430a.2
Supply Chain
Management
Description of efforts to maintain traceability
within the distribution chain
Product Safety &
Quality
SASB
HC-MS-
430a.3
Supply Chain
Management
Description of the management of risks
associated with the use of critical materials
Supply Chain
Management
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Local
Communities
Management Approach
Patient Experience and
Voice
Volunteerism & Giving
GRI 413-
1
Local
Communities
Operations with local community engagement,
impact assessments, and development
programs
Volunteerism & Giving
GRI 413-
2
Local
Communities
Operations with significant impacts on local
communities
Patient Experience and
Voice
Volunteerism & Giving
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Anti-
corruption
Management Approach
Ethics & Compliance
GRI 205-
1
Anti-
corruption
Operations assessed for risks related to
corruption
Ethics & Compliance
SASB
HC-MS-
270a.2
Ethical
Marketing
Description of code of ethics governing
promotion of off-label use of products
Titanium Book, page 20-
21
Ethics & Compliance
SASB
HC-MS-
270a.2
Business
Ethics
Description of code of ethics governing
promotion of off-label use of products
Titanium Book, page 21-
23
90 of 92GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Public Policy
Management Approach
Access to Healthcare
GRI 415-
1
Public Policy
Political contributions
Access to Healthcare
About Us - Political
Disclosure
GRI 103-
1, 103-2,
103-3
Customer
Health and
Safety
Management Approach
Product Safety &
Quality
GRI 416-
1
Customer
Health and
Safety
Assessment of the health and safety impacts
of product and service categories
Product Safety &
Quality
GRI 416-
2
Customer
Health and
Safety
Incidents of non-compliance concerning the
health and safety impacts of products and
services
Product Safety &
Quality
SASB
HC-MS-
250a.1
Product
Safety
Number of recalls issued, total units recalled
Product Safety &
Quality
Metrics-At-A-Glance
SASB
HC-MS-
250a.2
Product
Safety
List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch
Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products
database
Product Safety &
Quality
Metrics-At-A-Glance
91 of 92Disclaimer
1
. 
Sustainability report
2
. 
Disclaimer
Sustainability report
Disclaimer
All statements other than historical facts included herein are estimates and forward-looking statements based on current business aspirations. We caution you that they are based on current expectations and are subject to risks and
uncertainties that are difficult to predict and may be beyond our control. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described under the caption “Risk Factors” in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such filings are
available in the Investor Relations Section of our website at 
www.edwards.com
 or at 
www.sec.gov.
 Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any estimate or forward-looking statement contained herein, which speak only as
of the date made. We take no obligation to update or clarify any such estimates or forward looking statements.
92 of 92