      
Edwards Lifesciences    
2021 Sustainability Report2EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEdwards Lifesciences is the  
global leader  of patient-focused  
medical innovations for structural heart  
disease and critical care monitoring.  
Driven by a passion for patients,  
the company is dedicated to improving  
and enhancing lives through partnerships  
with clinicians and stakeholders across  
the global healthcare landscape.Contents
 
A Message from our Chairman and CEO 3
Our Approach 4
Sustainability Targets 5
Organizational Profile 10
Governance Map 12
Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement 13 
Governance 14
Ethics & Compliance 14 
Corporate Governance 18
Patients 23
Access to Healthcare 23 
Patient Experience & Voice 27
Products 32
Product Safety & Quality 32 
Supply Chain Management 37 
Product Design & Innovation 43
Workforce 47
Human Capital Management 47 
Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging 55 
Volunteerism & Giving 61
Environment 64
Metrics-at-a-Glance 
Content Index 
Report Downloads 
3
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OverviewEdwards Life -
sciences  As the world has faced extraordinary challenges over the last several years – whether  
referring to the pandemic, country conflicts, natural disasters or resource challenges  
and shortages – it has created moments, big and small, for Edwards Lifesciences to  
lead in ensuring healthy and sustainable relationships with all of our stakeholders as  
we focus on and serve patients.
When Edwards was established in 2000, we formed the company around a Credo and  
Aspirations to define our culture and guide our actions. We defined who we are, what we  
do and how we serve others: patients, employees, customers, suppliers, communities  
and shareholders.
We have always operated in a multi-stakeholder model because it is fundamental to our 
ability to grow the value of Edwards over the long term. Sustaining the long-term growth 
and value creation of our company requires us to integrate sustainability practices into 
every corner of Edwards. We are not singular in emphasis, for example, solely thinking 
about the environment, particular social issues or governance; rather, we align our global 
company with our strategy and processes to pursue this vision.
I am pleased to welcome you to Edwards Lifesciences’ 2021 Sustainability Report, which 
details the continued progress and commitment of Edwards to address the needs of our 
stakeholders globally and to create shared value in the communities in which we operate, 
now and for future generations.
Throughout 2021, our nearly 16,000 employees worldwide continued to focus on patients 
and overcame the challenges of our dynamic environments to ensure our life-saving and 
life-enhancing therapies were delivered to patients in need. At the same time, our teams achieved key milestones, such as research and development, clinical trials and  
evidence generation to support our future therapies, in support of our long-term  
innovation strategy.
Our Credo and Aspirations help us define our company’s strategic priorities and  
objectives. As detailed in this report, our sustainability strategy, including our measurable  
sustainability targets, is also fully aligned with our values and business strategy.  
Following the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG), we focus our  
efforts on those goals where we believe we can have the greatest impact – UN SDG 3: 
Good Health and Well-Being; UN SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth; and  
UN SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production.
We made marked progress over the last year in the growth of our global teams while  
also continuing a focus on diversity, inclusion and belonging, as well as community  
engagement, at our global facilities. Notably in this year’s report, we are establishing  
a target to achieve carbon neutrality by 2030 and 1.5° C science-based targets. Through  
expansion of our global headquarters in Irvine, Calif., and construction or expansion  
of our manufacturing facilities in Ireland and elsewhere around the world, we have  
approached these projects with consideration for the environment. The new carbon  
neutrality target broadens our thoughtful focus to all areas of our operations as we  
deliver on our patient-focused innovation strategy.
We believe that by taking a long-term view and approach to our strategy and work,  
and continuing to maintain focused on the key stakeholders with whom we are engaged, 
we are creating a sustainable culture that will grow and thrive  even when faced with  
unpredictable challenges. I am proud of our strong team, community-minded employees 
and patient-focused culture.
We look forward to continuing our journey at Edwards to focus, measure and communicate  
about the ways in which we make a sustainable impact. Thank you for your interest in 
our efforts, and we look forward to continued engagement with our global stakeholders 
to form trusted partnerships to act together with purpose, and help even more patients 
around the world.
Michael A. Mussallem  
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer  
Letter from the  
Chairman and CEO
4
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OverviewEdwards Lifesciences is the global leader in patient-focused medical innovations for 
structural heart disease and critical care monitoring. We are driven by a passion for patients 
and are dedicated to improving and enhancing lives through partnerships with clinicians 
and stakeholders across the global healthcare landscape.
Edwards Lifesciences continues to focus on investing in our people, our innovative  
technologies and our growth, and even with the challenges of the last several years, has 
remained dedicated to helping as many patients as possible. We recognize that our work 
impacts many stakeholders around the world, and we are committed to contributing  
value to the communities in which we operate.
At Edwards, our Credo defines our culture, strategic priorities, and our vision for  
sustainability and long-term value creation. Our environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) or sustainability targets are closely aligned with our corporate aspirations and  
are intended to address those topics that have been assessed to be of most importance  
to Edwards and its stakeholders. We are proud to share our progress toward those  
targets, shown in the table below.The Edwards Lifesciences 2021 Sustainability Report has been prepared in  
accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and with reference 
to the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Based on  
our assessment of the SDGs, we have focused our efforts on those areas where  
we believe we can have the most significant and meaningful impact: 
UN SGD 3: Good Health and Well-Being - Ensure healthy lives and promote  
well-being for all at all ages
UN SGD 8:  Decent Work and Economic Growth - Promote inclusive and  
sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all
UN SGD 12:  Responsible Consumption and Production - Ensure sustainable  
consumption and production patterns.
Our  
Approach
5
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Sustainability T argets
•Remove barriers along the patient journey  
to continuously increase treatment rates  
for all indicated severe aortic stenosis  
patients 
Ensure that our therapies are addressing  
the needs of patients through an  
increasingly collaborative  patient  
engagement process  
Empower and activate patients by  
meaningfully increasing awareness of  
structural heart disease globally by 2024Transforming patient  
lives with breakthrough  
medical technologies
Edwards is driven by a 
passion to help patients, 
partnering with clinicians  
to develop innovative  
technologies in the areas  
of structural heart disease 
and critical care monitoring. 
We put patients first,  
working to produce  
better technologies that  
enable better outcomes  
for patients.Our Aspirationsmet                   in progress                 not met
Patients treated with  
Transcatheter Therapies600K+
6
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Sustainability Targets
•Drive continuous improvement  efforts to  
ensure no patient safety-related class 1  
product removals
No significant disruption of product  
availability
 
Achieve a 35% reduction in recordable  
injury rates by 2025
Achieve ISO 14001 and 45001 certification  
at all manufacturing plants by 2025
By 2021, aim to achieve information security and 
privacy certifications for our digital and connected 
medical device platforms: 
  •  UL2900 certification for our new medical  
devices release, such as next generation  
HemoSphere monitoring platform
  •  HITRUST certification for our upcoming Cloud 
portal that will process regulated patient 
health information of our customersmet                   in progress                 not met
Excelling as a trusted  
partner through  
distinguished quality  
and integrity
Edwards conducts business 
ethically and with integrity, 
providing the highest level  
of care and respect for our 
partners. We are committed 
to the quality and safety  
of our products, driving  
innovation and promoting 
resource efficiency.Our Aspirations
7
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Sustainability Targets
•By 2022, all global employees to have completed  
unconscious bias training, and new hires within  
six months of employment
Year-over-year positive trending globally  
of women in leadership positions
Year-over-year positive trending in U.S. of  
ethnically diverse talent in leadership positions
Annual top talent retention resulting in voluntary  
turnover less than high performing benchmarks
Highly engaged workforce that exceeds industry,  
region and high performing benchmarks for  
employee engagementmet                   in progress                 not met
Fostering an  
inclusive culture  
where all employees  
grow and thrive
Fulfilling our mission to  
help patients requires a 
strong, healthy and talented 
workforce. Edwards recruits 
top candidates, offers  
employee wellness and  
engagement programs and 
fosters a diverse and inclusive 
culture to help employees  
deliver their best.Our Aspirations
8
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Sustainability Targets
New Targets•Drive Edwards’ aspiration of 100% global  
employee participation in charitable activity  
with participation goals of 100% for the Senior 
Leadership Team (SLT) and an increase in global 
participation as measured by the Employee  
Engagement survey 
Every Heartbeat Matters will improve the lives of 
2.5 million more underserved structural heart and 
critical care patients by the end of 2025 
Electronic instructions-for-use roll-out to  
all applicable business regions by end of 2022
By 2025, reduce our environmental footprint  
according to Edwards’ EHS plan:
 •  10% reduction in waste generation intensity
 •  10% reduction in water withdrawal intensity
Achieve carbon neutrality by 2030  
and 1.5˚C science-based targets
Reduce product distribution air miles traveled by 
an additional 1.5 million by 2023 vs 2018 baseline Passionate engagement 
that strengthens our 
communities
Edwards is committed to 
strengthening the health  
of our global communities. 
With patients as our top  
priority, we work to increase 
access to our innovative  
therapies, improve efficiency 
of healthcare processes,  
improve awareness of  
and treatment for life-  
threatening diseases and 
provide opportunities for our 
employees to give back.Our Aspirations
met                   in progress                 not met
9
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWhile acting as a trusted partner in a responsible manner  
has always been a key tenet at Edwards, we began formally  
reporting our sustainability progress in 2014. To guide our ESG 
strategy and disclosure, in 2015, we established a Sustainability 
Council comprised of senior leaders from across the organization. 
Each council member has a sponsor from the Edwards  
Leadership Team who oversees the inclusion of sustainability 
within their part of the company. In 2016, we conducted our  
first ESG materiality assessment, which allowed us to identify and 
prioritize our management of key environmental, social and  
governance topics. We then set sustainability targets for each  
of our most important topics, which align naturally with our  
Aspirations. Our team continues to assess and report progress on 
our targets annually.
In 2019, we refreshed the materiality assessment using the Six 
Capitals of Integrated Reporting in prioritization of the identified  
important topics. More information on our materiality refresh  
can be found in our Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement   
section. In 2021, we further integrated sustainability factors, including   
our target setting process, into our overall corporate strategic 
planning process and initiated a readiness assessment for  
integrated reporting.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (Core option). This report 
covers all global Edwards subsidiaries. We also evaluated the 
SASB Standards for Medical Equipment and Supplies and have 
incorporated certain metrics into this year’s report. Please see 
our Content Index for more details. We annually report our 
climate and water impacts to CDP and respond to several sus-
tainability rating and ranking surveys, including DJSI. We publish 
periodic philanthropy reports on our corporate giving initiatives. 
In addition, we publish our Sustainability Metrics at a Glance, 
which offers a multi-page snapshot of the metrics most used by 
external stakeholders. We use an interactive Governance Map  
that outlines our accountability process for material topics.•
Delivering exceptional 
shareholder value
By delivering on our  
focused company strategy 
and implementing  
sustainability practices,  
Edwards positions itself  
for long-term profitability 
that will benefit our  
stakeholders and also  
our bottom line.Our Aspirations
Sustainability Targets
 met                   in progress                 not met
Integrate sustainability factors in  
the strategic planning process annually
Include sustainability targets in the  
CEO’s performance goals annually
New Target
Incorporate sustainability targets into the  
Senior Leadership Team annual performance  
objectives by 2022 
10
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OverviewOrganizational Profile
Edwards was established as an independent public company in 2000, and since then  
the company has grown to more than $5 billion in revenue in 2021 with product sales in  
approximately 100 countries. We are dedicated to the development of medical technologies  
that improve both patient outcomes and speed of recovery. Our technologies include  
transcatheter and surgical heart valve therapies and critical care technologies, such as:
 •  Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) – In partnership with physicians  
worldwide, Edwards continues to lead the development of minimally-invasive heart 
valve technologies enabling a streamlined procedure with excellent outcomes, rapid 
discharge and improved quality of life for patients with aortic stenosis. Through  
significant investment in technology advancement and clinical evidence, Edwards 
strives to further expand the treatment options for patients with aortic stenosis.
 •  Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid Therapies (TMTT) – Edwards is making  
significant investments in the development of a differentiated portfolio of therapy  
options designed to treat mitral and tricuspid valve diseases.
 •  Surgical Structural Heart (Surgical) – Edwards is committed to being the partner  
of choice for cardiac surgeons and helping transform patients’ lives by advancing  
surgical structural heart innovations. Edwards is the world’s leading manufacturer  
of tissue heart valves and surgical heart valve repair therapies, which are used to treat  
a patient’s diseased heart valve.
 •  Critical Care – Edwards is a world leader in advanced hemodynamic monitoring  
systems used to measure a patient’s heart function and fluid status in surgical and  
intensive care settings. Its complete hemodynamic portfolio helps clinicians make  
proactive clinical decisions and plays an important role in enhancing patient recovery. 
Every year, Edwards Lifesciences continues to innovate life-saving therapies.  
In 2021, Edwards Lifesciences introduced several products for commercial use. 
 •  Chinese sales initiated for the INSPIRIS RESILIA aortic surgical valve 
 •  Japanese approval of the MITRIS RESILIA Mitral Valve 
 •  Japanese approval to begin treating patients at low surgical risk with the  
SAPIEN 3 valve •  U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance for Hypotension Prediction   
Index software for noninvasive Acumen IQ Cuff
 •  FDA approval for the use of the Edwards SAPIEN 3 transcatheter valve with  
the Alterra adaptive prestent (SAPIEN 3 with Alterra) for patients with severe  
pulmonary regurgitation.
Edwards has continued our focus on innovation. Please see our Newsroom for updates  
on our latest innovations and approvals, as well as our Investor Relations site for quarterly 
Fact Sheets.
Edwards is incorporated in Delaware and headquartered in Irvine, California, USA.  
We operate major manufacturing facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico, the  
Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Singapore and Ireland. We also have a significant  
employee presence at regional locations in Europe and Japan, with an office in  
Ireland where a manufacturing facility was opened in 2021 with plans to increase the 
workforce to 850 people in the coming years. None of our North American employees  
are represented by a labor union. In various countries outside of North America, we  
interact with trade unions and work councils that represent a limited number  
of employees.2021 Sales by Product Line 2021 Sales by Geographic Region
n	United States   
n Europe    
n Japan   
n Rest of World65%17%
16%
2%n   TAVR
n   Surgical
n  Critical Care
n  TMTT57%
10%23%
10%
11
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OverviewEdwards by the Numbers
Customers 
Across the U.S. and international markets, our customers include physicians, medical professionals, hospitals and group  
purchasing organizations. In 2021, we derived 57 percent of our sales from the U.S. and 43 percent from international markets.
We source about 70 percent of our  
manufacturing materials from key and  
strategic suppliers. We only add suppliers  
if new technology or capability is required  
for our business and not already present in  
our supplier base. New suppliers undergo  
a thorough due diligence process, including 
screening for adverse conditions or events.  
We prioritize partnerships with suppliers  
headquartered in countries that enforce  
stringent standards and regulations to help  
reduce risks of non-compliance in our  
supply chain. For example, we source bovine 
pericardial tissue exclusively from the U.S.  
and Australia. Our largest indirect suppliers  
provide telecommunication services, food  
and catering services, office supplies,  
uniforms, lab products and cloud software.  
Please see our topic disclosures and governance 
map for more on Supply Chain management.Total Number of Operations 65 (7 manufacturing locations)
Total Number of Employees as of December 31, 2021  15,700  
(Including Part-Time and Temporary Employees) 
Global Employees by Gender in 2021 59% Female  
   41% MaleDirect Suppliers
Our primary direct materials suppliers provide:
 •  Bovine pericardial tissue
 •  Chemicals
 •  Contract manufacturing
 •  Electronic assemblies and cables
 •  Extruded tubing and extrusions
 •  Guidewires
 •  Injection molded components
 •  Packaging materials
 •  Precision machining components
12
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCorporate
Governance
Environmental
Health & Safety
Ethics &
Compliance
Product Safety
& QualityFoundationSupply  Chain
Management
Talent
ManagementGovernance Map
We use a Governance Map to show the process used to  
establish accountability for each material topic in one  
overarching, interactive graphic. Each section describes  
who is involved when we set, execute and communicate  
our strategy for each of our material topics.
Review our governance structures and practices  
on our website by clicking on the pie chart. 
13
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMateriality & Stakeholder Engagement 
Value Chain
Edwards Lifesciences’ Credo reinforces our dedication  
to providing innovative solutions for people fighting  
cardiovascular disease. We believe that the management  
of our material topics supports this mission through our  
aspiration focused on delivering exceptional value to  Edwards’ Aspirations guide us in our work to positively  
impact patient lives. In 2016, we conducted a materiality 
assessment to objectively determine what ESG topics  
were important to our stakeholders, and to inform and  
drive our sustainability strategy, reporting, and actions  
moving forward. This assessment engaged more than  
60 internal and external stakeholders. In 2019, our  
Sustainability Council completed a refresh of that  
assessment to identify and prioritize the most important 
topics for achieving our ESG commitments. We engaged 
multiple stakeholder groups and conducted surveys  
for employees and patients and received nearly 1,000  
responses. Such in-depth analysis delivered a  
comprehensive materiality assessment, which provided  
confidence in the results and insight into areas of  
importance and emphasis. Our materiality process: 
 
Note: To learn more about our original materiality  
assessment process, please see our 2017 Sustainability 
Report.
Materiality Matrix 
Learn more about the results of our assessment on ESG topics of importance to our stakeholders, and our business,  
by clicking on the matrix below.
our stakeholders. For each topic, Edwards also considers 
where impacts directly occur throughout our  
manufacturing processes, geographic footprint and  
stakeholder relationships. The map demonstrating our 
understanding of our impacts across our value chain can be 
found on pages 18 and 19 in our 2017 Sustainability Report.3Impact
MappingBenchmarking
& Executive
EducationIDENTIFICA TION
1 2Stakeholder
Engagement
Validation
Workshop 4 5Vision & 
Goal Setting 6VALIDATIONPRIORITIZA TION
STRA TEGIC
INTEGRAT ION
Synthesis
& Analysi s
14
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Edwards Lifesciences is committed to responsible and ethical business practices.  
The Governance section of our 2021 Sustainability Report contains our management  
approach and annual performance for the following material topics:
 •  Ethics & Compliance
 •  Corporate Governance
Governance
Ethics & Compliance
Edwards Lifesciences’ global ethics and compliance program supports our  
commitment to excelling as a trusted partner through distinguished quality  
and integrity and delivering exceptional value to our stakeholders.
Definition  
Driving a culture of integrity that promotes ethical behavior and compliance  
with our code of conduct, as well as with relevant laws and regulations, including  
anti-bribery and corruption. Management Approach  
At Edwards Lifesciences, our business, strategy and aspirations are built upon a 
strong culture of integrity. Edwards is committed to conducting our work according 
to the highest standards of business ethics. We value trusted relationships with our 
many stakeholders and recognize that our ability to improve patient lives around  
the world is dependent upon our reputation and credibility.
Governance Map
Corporate
Governance
Environmental
Health & Safety
Ethics &
Compliance
Product Safety
& QualityFoundationSupply  Chain
Management
Talent
Managementclick to view15
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Global Ethics and Compliance Program
Our Global Ethics and Compliance Program (the Program) establishes a comprehensive 
framework for promoting compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards  
of conduct, and reinforces our culture of integrity. Our Board of Directors and senior 
leadership are committed to upholding our ethical culture and to supporting our Global 
Ethics and Compliance Program.  
 1.  Governance.   Edwards’ Senior Vice President and Chief Responsibility Officer (CRO) 
leads Edwards’ Global Ethics and Compliance Program as well as its Sustainability 
Program. The CRO reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Edwards Board  
of Directors and provides regular updates on the Program to the Compensation  
and Governance Committee and the Executive Leadership Team (ELT). A Corporate 
Compliance Committee chaired by the CRO and comprised of a cross-section of  
senior leaders is tasked with assisting the CRO with implementation of the Program 
and meets regularly to discuss matters related to compliance risk and program  
effectiveness. Each region also has a dedicated regional compliance officer (RCO) 
who reports to the CRO and has responsibility for implementation and oversight  
of the Program. Each RCO chairs a regional compliance committee of regional  
leaders.
 2.  Global Business Practices Standards.  Edwards’ Global Business Practices Standards 
(known as the “Titanium Book”) serve as the foundation for Edwards’ Global Ethics 
and Compliance Program. The Titanium Book is considered our “Credo in action”  
and sets forth our values and expectations of all employees with regards to:
  •  The Marketplace:  We will conduct our business with honesty and integrity,  
as well as obey all laws and regulations. 
  •  Our Employees:  We will treat our colleagues with fairness and respect in  
a safe work environment. 
  •  Our Community:  We are committed to being productive and respectful  
members of the communities where we do business. 
  •  Our Company and Shareholders:  We will act in the best interests of Edwards  
and its shareholders, communicate effectively with our shareholders and  
protect the Company’s assets.
The Standards apply globally to all Edwards businesses and subsidiaries and to all  
employees, members of the Boards of Directors and agents of Edwards. The Standards 
are available in eight languages; and all professional employees are required to certify 
annually that they have read and agree to follow the Standards. 3.  Edwards’ Speak-Up Program.   The Titanium Book clearly states that ethical  
business conduct is the responsibility of every Edwards employee and that our  
employees are expected to raise any questions or concerns they may have about 
potential misconduct. Employees have several communication channels  
available to them for raising ethical questions or concerns, which are outlined  
not only in our Standards but also on the employee intranet, posters, wallet cards  
and other communications. Our Speak Up tool, the Edwards Integrity Helpline,  
is available to both employees and external parties, and allows for anonymous  
reporting.  It can be accessed globally by telephone or a web portal and is available 
24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Edwards strictly prohibits retaliation against any  
employee who raised a concern in good faith.
4.  Training and Communications. Edwards employees must complete a training 
program designed to ensure they understand and comply with our Global Business 
Practices Standards, policies and procedures, and Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Training. We expect our employees to be able to recognize and appropriately  
respond to potential compliance risks and ethical issues. Training is delivered 
through a combination of live sessions and targeted on-line training modules  
that are regularly reviewed and updated.     
5.  Risk Assessments, Auditing & Monitoring. Edwards regularly assesses the  
compliance risks that are facing the company and continuously updates and  
improves its Global Ethics and Compliance Program to address those risks.  
In addition, Edwards implements audit and monitoring plans to assess overall  
compliance and to identify any potential weaknesses in the program and/or  
need for corrective actions.
Anti-Corruption
Edwards adheres to all applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations, including but 
not limited to the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act, and we expect 
all third parties doing business on our behalf to uphold the same high standards.   
Edwards’ employees must complete annual training on anti-bribery and corruption.  
Edwards has also established a number of other internal controls to prevent bribery 
and corruption, including:
 •  Risk assessments and related monitoring
 •  Internal audits on financial controls pertaining to anti-bribery and corruption 
 •  Investigations of all reports of potential violations16
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Third-Party Management
Our third-party management program includes rigorous due diligence, training and 
monitoring to ensure compliance with anti-corruption laws and to promptly identify 
and remediate any potential issues.  
Interactions with Healthcare Professionals
Edwards’ collaboration with physicians is essential for the safe and effective use of  
our products as well as the continued innovation of our technologies and therapies.  
We have implemented a comprehensive framework of policies and procedures  
intended to ensure that our interactions with healthcare professionals are ethical,  
professional and free from even the appearance of improper inducement. We never  
want the actions of our employees (or third parties) to interfere with the independent  
medical judgment of healthcare professionals or the best interests of patients.   
Edwards complies with all applicable disclosure requirements and is transparent  
about its relationships with healthcare professionals. In 2008, Edwards became the  
first of our peer group to disclose payment voluntarily and publicly to physicians in  
the United States. Now, in accordance with the U.S. Affordable Care Act, we report  
all financial relationships with U.S. physicians and teaching hospitals through the  
Open Payments system on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ website.  
We also comply with all tracking and disclosure requirements that apply to medical  
device manufacturers around the world.
Responsible Marketing 
As a global leader, we deliver advanced products and services that are valued for  
their innovation, features, quality and performance. We comply with all applicable  
legal and regulatory requirements and ensure that our marketing and promotional  
communications are truthful, accurate and not misleading. We do not promote  
products for uses that have not been approved by the appropriate regulatory  
authority and we do not disparage the products or services of our competitors.  Annual Performance  
Global Business Practice Standards
We require all professional employees to complete an annual online certification  
of their commitment to follow the Global Business Practices Standards. In 2021,  
99.6 percent of Edwards’ professional employees completed the certification.
Global Ethics and Compliance Program
In 2021, we held our ninth annual Titanium Day event. On this day, we celebrate  
Edwards’ Credo by reinforcing our commitment to conducting business according to  
the high standards of business integrity and ethics through education and awareness.  
Although typically these events are conducted live at multiple sites around the world,  
in 2021 we moved to an online platform due to COVID-19 related precautions.  
Nonetheless, we connected with thousands of employees across multiple geographies 
through leadership presentations, panel discussions, videos and engaging educational 
activities focused on our Global Business Practices Standards (or “Titanium Book”).   
In early 2022, we received our sixth consecutive recognition as one of the World’s  
Most Ethical Companies. 
Leadership Training
In 2019, we developed an online learning module on ethical decision-making for  
managers, rolling out the training in the U.S. in early 2020, and achieved a 94 percent 
completion rate. We then met our target to have 100 percent of managers complete  
the learning module on ethical decision making by 2020. This course was assigned to  
all new managers at Edwards hired in 2021.
Corruption and Bribery
In 2020, we launched a comprehensive review of our Global Ethics and Compliance  
Program with particular emphasis on anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Learnings from 
that review identified opportunities for training enhancements.  In 2021, we developed 
an enhanced online global learning module on anti-bribery and anti-corruption  
required for all professional employees. We will continue to further enhance and improve  
our program, while also ensuring we are well positioned for sustainable growth.17
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
World’s Most Ethical Companies: For the sixth year in a row, Edwards  
Lifesciences was recognized by the Ethisphere Institute, a global leader in  
defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices, as one  
of the Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies®. Edwards is the only  
honoree in the medical technology industry, underscoring our commitment  
to leading with integrity and prioritizing ethical business practices.  
Newsweek’s America’s Most Responsible Companies:  Newsweek partnered  
with global data research firm Statista Inc. to publish its third ranking of  
America’s Most Responsible Companies 2022.  Statista worked from a universe 
of 2,000 public companies to determine which firms were top-performing when  
it came to doing good. Results are based on publicly available key performance  
indicators derived from Corporate Social Responsibility  Reports, Sustainability 
Reports, and Corporate Citizenship Reports as well as an independent survey 
among 11,000 U.S. citizens about their perceptions of the companies related to 
corporate social responsibility. The final list recognizes the top 499 most  
responsible companies in the United States, spanning 14 industries. Edwards 
ranked #277 overall.
HIGHLIGHT STORY
Edwards Receives Top Ethics  
and Citizenship Recognitions
Edwards Named One of America’s Most JUST Companies
Edwards Lifesciences was honored by being recognized as one of America’s Most  
JUST Companies, according to  JUST Capital,  a non-profit that ranks the largest  
publicly traded corporations in the United States on the issues Americans care about 
most. Edwards ranked #86 overall out of 954 for America’s best corporate citizens. 
Edwards was recognized, for the fifth consecutive year, for outperforming its peers  
on the criteria deemed to be most important, including providing workers with good  
benefits and supporting work-life balance; giving back to local communities;  
diversity, equity, and inclusion; leadership integrity and more.
18
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Corporate Governance
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to improve corporate governance supports our aspiration  
of delivering exceptional shareholder value.
Definition  
Corporate governance is a system of rules, procedures, practices, policies, and  
relationships by which a company is controlled and operates. 
  Management Approach   
     It is important to be accurate, clear, and transparent in disclosures regarding corporate 
decision-making, organizational process, and company operations. Good corporate 
governance involves balancing the interests of a company’s many stakeholders,  
including shareholders, employees, customers, the community and a vital stakeholder 
group for Edwards—patients.
    Through our corporate governance practices,  
the Board of Directors and management  
create a responsible organization from the top,  
setting the tone of our patient-focused culture,  
and supporting our strong reputation. This  
begins with our Chairman and CEO, who  
regularly meets with key stakeholders,  
including investors, customers, patients,  
employees and legislators, to discuss  
their needs and share our progress.  
In addition, our CEO includes  
sustainability targets in his  
performance goals annually. Our  
Board of Directors and management  
strive to implement policies and  
processes that promote ethical and  
sustainable corporate governance  
practices for the benefit of all stakeholders.  Corporate
Governance
Environmental
Health & Safety
Ethics &
Compliance
Product Safety
& QualityFoundationSupply  Chain
Management
Talent
Management  Governance Map  
                click to view  Our Board of Directors
A talented and knowledgeable team of directors oversees our organization.  
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines outline expectations for Board service that 
demonstrate our commitment to ethical and effective corporate governance.  
These guidelines cover topics, such as: 
 •  Board size and composition
 •  Director selection and qualification
 •  Director responsibilities and operation of the Board
 •  Director access to management and independent advisors
 •  Responsibilities of Board committees 
 •  Board oversight for strategic planning and fiduciary responsibility
 •  Director compensation
 •  Director orientation and continuing education
 •  Succession planning
 •  Recoupment of performance-based compensation
 •  Process for performance and annual evaluations of the Board
Our Board members oversee corporate strategy, financial and operational risk,  
information security and cybersecurity, and sustainability, among other matters.
At Edwards, the directors evaluate the Board’s leadership structure on a regular  
basis to ensure that the approach continues to provide independent oversight of  
the company and serves the best interests of all stakeholders. This includes a robust 
director evaluation and Board refreshment process. Our Board strives to maintain  
a highly independent, balanced and diverse group of directors that collectively  
possesses the expertise to provide proper oversight of management. After the  
company’s 2021 annual stockholders’ meeting, 87.5 percent of the Board was  
independent, 37.5 percent of the Board were women, and 25 percent of the Board 
were ethnically diverse. The average age of our directors was 65 years and the  
average tenure was seven years. 19
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Our Chief Executive Officer also serves, and has served, as the Chairman of the Board 
of the company since the company went public more than 22 years ago. Our Board 
believes this has been, and continues to be, an effective approach for our company as 
Edwards has experienced strong financial and operational growth under this leader-
ship structure, most recently providing a cumulative total shareholder return of 315 
percent to shareholders from 2016 to 2021. Edwards’ 2022 Proxy Statement further 
describes our corporate governance policies and practices.
Our Board has established two committees:
1. Audit Committee – assists our Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities  
relating to, among other matters, the following:
 •  Integrity of the company’s financial statements;
 •  Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements;
 •  Monitoring the independent registered public accounting firm’s qualifications, 
performance and independence;
 •  The performance of the company’s internal audit function;
 •  The company’s investment and hedging activities; and
 •  Enterprise-wide risk and management practices related to those risks, including, 
but not limited to, manufacturing processes and supplier quality, product  
development processes and systems, continuity of the company’s operations  
and information technology infrastructure and cybersecurity and information  
security risks.
2. Compensation and Governance Committee – is responsible for, among other 
things, the following:
 •  Determining the compensation of executive officers and recommending to  
our Board the compensation of nonemployee directors;
 •  Overseeing management of succession planning, attraction and retention  
of talent, and risks related to the design of executive compensation programs  
and arrangements;
 •  Developing and recommending to the Board corporate governance guidelines; •  Identifying, evaluating and recommending individuals qualified to be directors  
to the Board;
 •  Overseeing the evaluation of the Board and management; 
 •  Overseeing the company’s principles, programs and practices on sustainability  
topics, including environmental and social affairs; and
 •  Overseeing the company’s program for engaging with shareholders on corporate  
governance and other matters relating to the meetings of the company’s shareholders.
Additionally, our Board, led by the Compensation and Governance Committee, is  
responsible for assessing, identifying, evaluating, and, ultimately, recommending to 
shareholders, individuals qualified to be directors of the company. The Compensation  
and Governance Committee maintains formal criteria for selecting director nominees  
who will best serve the interests of Edwards and its stakeholders. These written  
membership criteria state that Edwards “seeks a board with diversity of background 
among its members as determined by the Board in its business judgment, which may  
include diversity of experience, gender, race, ethnic or national origin, age or other  
factors as the Board determines appropriate.” The director nominations process also  
includes a review of current director skills against an established skills matrix and  
consideration of each director’s retirement horizon, as well as the feedback received 
through the Board’s self-evaluation and peer evaluation. Please see pages 6-7 of our  
2022 Proxy Statement for a more in-depth description of the criteria.
Visit our Governance page to find the written charters, including a description of the  
full responsibilities of the committees.
ESG  targets included  
in 100%  of ELT
performance goals20
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
CEO Pay Ratio
Edwards believes incentive-based executive compensation programs can mitigate 
risks and foster long-term value creation and sustainable growth. We design our 
compensation programs to align with the interests of our shareholders. Pursuant to 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, our Proxy Statement contains the 
ratio of the total annual compensation of our CEO to the median of the total annual 
compensation of all our employees (excluding our CEO), which is reported in the  
annual performance section of this report. Page 60 of our 2022 Proxy Statement 
specifies our methodology for calculating this figure.
Governance for Sustainability
Our Compensation and Governance Committee maintains formal oversight  
responsibilities over Edwards’ sustainability principles, environmental and social  
affairs and regularly reports and discusses the company’s progress on these topics  
with the full Board. Our Chairman and CEO also has performance management  
objectives for improving our sustainability strategy, metrics and disclosures.  
A cross-functional Sustainability Council develops and drives the implementation  
of these initiatives using a robust management framework. Led by our CRO, the 
Council is comprised of senior leaders from various functions across the organization.
Council members represent their areas of responsibility and collaborate to identify 
priorities, set sustainability targets and implement strategies to improve performance 
against achieving those targets. They meet regularly to review Edwards’ progress and  
develop implementation strategies. Our CRO reports on the Council’s activities to our 
Compensation and Governance Committee, and to our ELT. This year we are also  
aiming to incorporate sustainability targets into the Senior Leadership Team’s annual 
performance objectives. 
Enterprise Risk Management
Enterprise risk is assessed and prioritized using quantitative and qualitative inputs  
on multiple key dimensions, including, among other things:
 •  Patient safety
 •  Business and financial metrics
 •  Operational risks (disruptive events) •  Reputation and brand
 •  Legal and regulatory
 •  Talent and employee wellness
Our Strategic Planning process, in part, considers risks and opportunities to Edwards  
on a seven-year time horizon. Our Enterprise Risk Council reviews and prioritizes our  
top risks quarterly and reviews updates provided to the Board and management. The 
Council discusses enterprise risk at each regularly scheduled Board meeting to inform  
the Board on the latest posture of key risks. We have a strong business continuity  
program with standardized plans across global manufacturing sites. We routinely  
run exercises to test readiness. Incorporating sustainability factors into our risk  
assessments provides us with a more robust understanding of potential risks to the 
company. We have an agile crisis management process that leverages insight and  
leadership from an experienced and cohesive management team. Please see our  
Governance Map for more details.
Annually, and as needed, the Audit Committee, the CFO and the Senior Vice President  
of Enterprise Risk Management consider various potential risks to the company,  
including those related to financial reporting, product development, continuity of  
operations, regulatory compliance, succession planning, physical facilities and other 
topics. The full Board of Directors and the Senior Vice President of Enterprise Risk  
Management also consider potential risks to the strategic plan in connection with  
the annual strategic review.
Edwards is aware that changing weather patterns may cause business interruptions.  
In response, we incorporate the potential impact of floods, wildfires and other weather 
events into our assessments. We have established emergency response systems and 
business recovery processes and test them regularly. We work with our insurance  
provider to ensure our global facilities have appropriate weather damage-prevention 
features and resilient infrastructure. We continue to review and assess the risk factors 
outlined in the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) for material 
relevance to Edwards and, where needed, to shape appropriate mitigation strategies.  
For more information, please see “Risk Factors” on page 12 of our  2021 Annual Report  
and “Board Role in Risk Oversight” on page 14 of our 2022 Proxy Statement.21
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Cybersecurity
Our Audit Committee regularly reviews cybersecurity and information security  
risks, and our Information Security team, overseen by the Chief Information  
Security Officer, works to maintain best-in-class cyber and information security 
practices with the objective of strengthening cyber resiliency. The team operates  
our Information Security Program, which follows the principles of industry standards 
such as the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, ISO 27002 Standard, CIS Framework, 
SANS Top 20 Controls and OWASP Top 10, among others. These frameworks allow 
us to apply our priorities in a consistent and risk-based manner. We leverage these 
frameworks to ensure security controls aligned with best practices are consistently 
deployed across the business. In addition, we work with trusted and leading third  
parties to help us assess and strengthen our cybersecurity program maturity and  
continually enhance our processes.
To prepare for potential cybersecurity incidents, we maintain both a business  
continuity plan and cyber incident response plan with formalized workflows,  
playbooks and simulation exercises conducted periodically and involving our CEO.  
We also engage external partners in conducting various audits and tests on our IT  
infrastructure to proactively identify potential vulnerabilities.
The Information Security team is an affiliated member and active contributor to  
improvements in the information security industry through the following  
Information Security Committees:
 •  National Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center (NH-ISAC)
 •  Medical Device Innovation, Safety and Security (MDISS)
 •  Advanced Med Tech (AdvaMed) Security Group
We achieved UL2900 certification for our new medical devices release, such as our 
next generation HemoSphere monitoring platform. We further aim to achieve  
HITRIST certification for our upcoming Cloud portal for our digital and connected 
medical device platforms, which will process the regulated patient health information 
of our customers and patients. Edwards works to further strengthen our response and recovery mechanisms  
as a part of our cyber resiliency strategy.
Our Information Security policies are published in an employee handbook and on  
our web portal. Every new employee receives these policies, and Edwards conducts 
regular robust information security awareness and training campaigns for our 
employees regarding cybersecurity. We also provide communication hotlines for 
employees and external users to report any security incidents they see and escalate 
them right away. In addition, we provide product security disclosures and contact  
information to report any product vulnerabilities.
Respecting the General Data Protection Regulation
Edwards respects the privacy rights of everyone who interacts with us and we are 
committed to compliance with applicable privacy and data protection requirements.
Privacy
Edwards does not sell or otherwise provide personal information to third parties  
for the third parties’ marketing purposes. For more information, please see our  
Privacy Statement.
Approach to Taxation
Edwards is committed to responsible tax management and transparency across  
our extensive global operations and business activity. With sales in more than  
100 countries, our tax contribution is substantial and global in scope, which has  
a significant impact on communities throughout the world.
Our approach to taxes is grounded in three principles: 1) compliance with local and 
international laws and regulations; 2) a commitment to business excellence that 
aims to maximize efficiencies and competitiveness; and 3) consideration of the  
interests of multiple stakeholders, including governments and tax authorities,  
customers, shareholders and the communities where we operate our business.  
For more information, please see our Position Statement on Tax. 22
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Governance for Sustainability
We continue to align our sustainability efforts with our patient-focused innovation  
strategy, guided by our Aspirations and our Credo. In 2021, we again met our target to  
integrate sustainability factors into the strategic planning process annually, furthering  
our alignment of sustainability targets with our overall corporate goals. 
Enterprise Risk Management
Edwards’ Board of Directors and ELT continually refine and strengthen our enterprise  
risk management (ERM) process, aiming to better identify emerging risks and minimize 
impact. In 2021, we continued to integrate sustainability factors into our ERM process by 
incorporating ESG considerations into our Strategic Planning process, reviewing our  
climate risks, and refining business continuity plans. Using the TCFD’s risk assessment 
framework, we assessed risks and provided an overview to our enterprise risk council.  
Additionally, Edwards conducted multiple business continuity exercises in 2021, which  
focused on natural disaster risk. For more information, please see “Risk Factors” on  
page 12 of our 2021 Annual Report.
In 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to be a key risk that has impacted companies 
and organizations around the world. Edwards’ ERM program continued to provide risk 
leadership as the company has managed through the pandemic. In this capacity, the ERM 
program has provided insight into the company’s COVID-19 road map, response plans  
and protocols. 
Cybersecurity
Edwards experienced no cyber breaches or incidents that had a material impact in 2021.  
Attempted cyber-attacks on our network were detected and responded to in a timely 
manner. We have not incurred material expenses from information security breaches  
or security breach penalties or settlements over the last three years.
In March 2022, we achieved UL2900 certification for our new medical devices release, 
such as our next generation HemoSphere monitoring platform. Looking forward, our  
Information Security Program is focusing on implementing new digital products with  
HITRUST certification. We are also focusing on further building cyber resiliency  
throughout our value chain. We are closely monitoring new and emerging cybersecurity  
regulations around the world, assessing their potential impacts to our business and  
responding accordingly.Annual Performance
Edwards continually strengthens our governance structures to promote business  
success and drive our culture of responsibility.
Board of Directors
Our Board remains committed to ensuring we have the appropriate skills, experience 
and diversity to independently guide and oversee Edwards’ long-term strategy. The 
diverse range of qualifications and skills represented by our directors are provided on 
page 7 of our 2022 Proxy Statement. None of our directors serve on more than two 
other public companies and all are committed to fulfilling their board responsibilities. 
For more information, please see our 2022 Proxy Statement.
Engaging our Shareholders
Throughout 2021, we continued our stakeholder engagement practices with  
our shareholders and incorporated feedback into our decision-making processes.  
For information on Edwards’ engagement with shareholders, please see our  
2022 Proxy Statement.  Additional information about Edwards’ corporate governance 
practices can be found in our Bylaws, Corporate Governance Guidelines and the  
Charters of the Audit Committee and the Compensation and Governance Committee. 
Visit our Governance page to find the written bylaws, guidelines and charters.
Status of Pay-for-Performance, Executive Compensation  
and CEO Pay Ratio
In 2021, approximately 91 percent of the target total direct compensation of our CEO, 
and an average of 79 percent of the target total direct compensation of our other 
Named Executive Officers, was performance-based. For more information, please  
see our 2022 Proxy Statement.
Based on the SEC rules for CEO pay ratio disclosure and applying the methodology  
described on page 60 of the 2022 Proxy Statement, we determined that our CEO’s  
total compensation for 2021 was $13,613,305, and the median of the total 2021  
compensation of all our employees (excluding our CEO) was $73,036. Accordingly,  
we estimate the ratio of our CEO’s total compensation for 2021 to the median of the 
total 2021 compensation of all our employees (excluding our CEO) to be 186 to 1.23
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Patients
Access to Healthcare
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to improve access to healthcare supports our Aspirations   
of transforming patient lives with breakthrough medical technologies and passionate  
engagement that strengthens our communities.
Definition  
Supporting the provision of quality care to underserved and diverse patients in  
global communities; helping to remove regulatory, geographic and economic barriers  
to treatment, ensuring patients have access to new therapies; participating in public  
policy development; providing financial contributions in support of Edwards’ goals  
and aspirations; and developing innovations that allow our products to improve the  
efficiency, safety and effectiveness of healthcare processes.Management Approach  
Edwards Lifesciences believes patients should have access to high-quality care  
and new therapies that deliver value, and that patient care can always be improved. 
Unfortunately, patients in today’s global healthcare system often face numerous 
barriers to treatment. These can include lack of disease awareness, restricted access 
to coverage, geographic barriers or challenging referral pathways. Edwards’ focus on 
improving access to care contributes to a more sustainable healthcare system and 
addresses unmet patient needs. 
It is our goal to make the patient experience better, reduce overall healthcare costs 
and continuously improve quality of care. We address this in our target to remove 
barriers along the patient journey to continuously increase treatment rates for all 
indicated severe aortic stenosis patients. This target aligns with the UN SDG 3:  
Good Health & Well-Being. 
Our programs began with the recognition that patients, providers and healthcare 
systems have come to increasingly recognize the value of non-clinical health  
outcome measures such as quality of life, which can lead to meaningful changes  
in healthcare status.
Furthermore, with a growing aging population, longer life-expectancy, growth  
of evidence-based treatment options and constrained budgets, governments  
and other payers globally are increasingly focused on covering and paying for  
technologies that are cost-effective and/or cost-saving.24
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Global Health Economics & Reimbursement (GHER)
Edwards envisions a future where all patients in need have access to cardiovascular  
care. To that end, it is important that our treatments are cost effective for healthcare 
systems. Cardiovascular care innovations can pose a challenge when healthcare systems  
are unequipped to quickly adopt new technologies. Edwards seeks to bridge this gap  
by providing health economic data and tools to hospitals and healthcare systems  
implementing our therapies.
Edwards employs a GHER team whose mission is to increase patient access by developing  
and defining the related clinical and economic data that healthcare decision-makers 
need. Our dedicated GHER staff supports customers’ and healthcare systems’ efforts to 
improve patient outcomes and reduce costs. We work directly with healthcare systems 
to provide the clinical and economic data that supports equitable access, coverage and 
payment so that our technologies can be available to patients in need.
Improving Access to Care
Together with continued support from Edwards Lifesciences, the American Heart  
Association’s (AHA) quality improvement initiative addresses the need for  
improvements in identification of patients with aortic stenosis and adherence to  
treatment guidelines. This initiative around structural heart disease has an intensive  
approach to aortic stenosis in a select number of communities.  These locations are  
the front lines to identify best practices for in-patient and out-patient settings alike.  
The goal is to improve the patient experience from symptom onset to appropriate  
diagnosis and follow-through, to timely treatment and disease management. The  
program consists of evidence-based measurement development to better identify  
and treat patients, as well as multi-media educational resources and self-management 
care plans for people living with structural heart disease. This initiative addresses our  
target to remove barriers along the patient journey to continuously increase treatment 
rates for all indicated symptomatic aortic stenosis patients. This target aligns with   
UN SDG 3: Good Health & Well-Being. For more details, please see AHA’s website.Philanthropic Support
Edwards is proud to serve patients from diverse backgrounds, all around the world. 
Through the Edwards Lifesciences Foundation, we support many philanthropic  
initiatives that increase access to healthcare for underserved patients. The Foundation 
works to expand access to therapies in all geographic areas, including those in emerging 
markets, through support of clinical education and medical mission work. We aim to 
reach underserved regions all around the world, such as Africa, Brazil, China, Dominican 
Republic, Haiti, India, Jamaica, Peru, Puerto Rico, Russia and Vietnam. Please see our 
Volunteerism & Giving section for more information on Edwards’ philanthropic efforts.
Every Heartbeat Matters
Our signature philanthropic initiative is Every Heartbeat Matters (EHM). Launched  
in 2014, EHM partners with more than 50 charitable organizations to support the  
humanitarian needs of underserved patients globally. We are committed to improving 
the lives of 2.5 million additional underserved structural heart and critical care patients 
by the end of 2025.This target aligns with UN SDG 3: Good Health & Well-Being.  
More on this initiative can be found on our EHM page. A complete list of grantees is 
available on our website. Each partner is required to adhere to our program and  
reporting guidelines.
In addition to cash donations, we partner with an experienced organization, MAP  
International, to offer EHM partners donated products to perform humanitarian  
treatment for underserved structural heart and critical care patients outside the U.S.
Political Activities
As a highly regulated medical technology company, public policy influences our ability 
to help patients. We are active in the policy making and political process through regular 
and constructive engagement with government officials, policymakers and stakeholder 
groups. Our goal is to advance sound public policy on areas related to patient-focused 
medical innovations for structural heart disease, critical care and surgical monitoring, 
and to improve patient outcomes and enhance lives.
We outline our approach in our Policy on Political Activities and disclose all federal and 
state political contributions on our corporate website, which we update twice per year.25
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Performance  
Global Health Economics & Reimbursement
Our GHER program strives to provide reimbursement education to individual hospitals  
or health systems providing TAVR and other Edwards technologies. While working with 
TAVR programs in support of their efforts to deliver quality care remained a top priority  
for Edwards throughout 2021, we also focused efforts supporting the appropriate access 
for our new Surgical Structural Heart technologies. For example, global markets provide  
a significant opportunity to impact patient care. In 2021, we first launched our MITRIS  
RESILIA valve for mitral valve replacement in Japan. Just six months post-launch, the  
MITRIS RESILIA valve became the leading mitral valve replacement therapy in Japan.  
In early 2022, the MITRIS RESILIA valve also received approval from the U.S. FDA.
We also furthered our work with hospitals on understanding and adopting best  
demonstrated quality practices and realizing care efficiencies associated with TAVR  
and Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement. These efforts continue to increase overall  
patient access to care and significantly reduce the costs of care. In 2021, Edwards  
announced that a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing TAVR to surgery demonstrated 
that TAVR with the SAPIEN 3 valve is an economically dominant treatment strategy,  
offering improved outcomes and reduced cost. Treatment with the SAPIEN 3 valve  
resulted in cost savings of more than $2,000 per patient through the two-year  
study period.
In 2021, Edwards also announced clinical and economic results from the 3M  
(multidisciplinary, multimodality, but minimalist) TAVR Economic Study. The 3M-  
TAVR study demonstrated positive findings supporting similar clinical outcomes  
and substantial cost savings associated with minimalist TAVR when compared with  
conventional TAVR in patients at intermediate risk for surgery. For example, index  
hospitalization costs for patients in the 3M cohort were $10,843 lower per patient,  
driven by reductions in procedure duration, anesthesia costs and length of stay.  
Cumulative cost differences out to 30 days post procedure were $11,305 lower in the  
3M cohort compared to traditional TAVR. Please see the press release for more details.
In support of our Critical Care business, we continued the generation of evidence  
necessary to understand how intra-operative hypotension (low blood pressure)  
can lead to poor patient outcomes and that our Hypotension Prediction Index (HPI) 
 technology has proven to reduce intraoperative hypotension. In 2021, we initiated  
a new study, HPI SMART BP, to evaluate HPI’s impact on patient outcomes with the 
first patient enrolled in the fourth quarter of 2021. Social value analysis is a health economics approach that seeks to monetize the health 
benefits of a therapy and assess the relative share of those benefits going to society  
(as health gains) versus returning to manufacturers (as profits). Published in 2021,  
Edwards supported a white paper by the USC Schaeffer Center for Health Policy &  
Economics titled “The Social Value of Disseminating Transcatheter Aortic Valve  
Replacement”, which estimates TAVR will generate cumulative social value of about 
$115 billion between 2011 and 2040 for patients who were medically managed.
Improving Access to Care
As a national sponsor, Edwards continues to support the AHA’s quality improvement 
initiative Target: Aortic Stenosis. This patient-centered initiative is dedicated to driving 
efforts for timely diagnosis and treatment of aortic stenosis, appropriate treatment 
and improved quality of care by raising awareness and understanding of aortic stenosis 
signs and symptoms, and positively empowering people to better manage their risks 
and self-management with patient and caregiver resources. According to AHA, the 
comprehensive and scalable program raises patient awareness and deepens patient 
engagement while delivering guideline-directed, optimal-care standards education.
Educational Initiatives for Better Care
Following our online “Reach for the Heart” Direct-to-Consumer Disease Awareness 
Campaign, Edwards recently launched a nationwide direct-to-consumer unbranded 
television advertising campaign, Just Getting Started, to drive awareness of patients  
to TAVR therapy. This advertisement directs the viewer to our educational website  
offering a free TAVR Info Kit, which includes:
 •  Education on severe aortic stenosis
 •  Information on TAVR as a treatment option
 •  Videos of patients sharing their experiences with TAVR
 •  Discussion guide for talking with your doctor
 •  List of hospitals in your area that perform TAVR
To learn more about the Just Getting Started campaign visit: JustGettingStarted.com
To learn more about the Reach for the Heart campaign visit:
Campaign Website: ReachForTheHeart.com
Facebook Page: Reach Out: Heart Valve Disease
YouTube Channel: Reach Out: Heart Valve Disease26
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Philanthropic Support
Through our philanthropic initiative, EHM, we are committed to improving the lives 
of 2.5 million additional underserved structural heart and critical care patients by the 
end of 2025. Since announcing this new commitment in 2020, we have impacted more 
than 400,000 underserved patients and we are on track to meet our goal. This impact 
includes each stage of the patient journey:
 •  Detecting nearly 160,000 underserved structural heart disease patients
 •  Treating more than 135,000 underserved structural heart disease patients
 •  Recovering more than 100,000 underserved cardiac and high-risk patients 
This success during a particularly challenging time is due to the innovation of our  
partners. For example, clinicians stayed up into their nights to connect via video to  
guide healthcare workers as they treated patients in other parts of the world; clinical  
education forums shifted to virtual learning platforms; and new programs were  
established to meet the needs of the world today. By partnering with more than  
60 patient- and cardiac-focused charitable partners around the world, we have  
invested more than $30 million and countless hours of employees’ dedication to  
creating the EHM community. For more on the EHM initiative, please see our  
Volunteerism & Giving section of this report.
Political and Lobbying Expenditures
In 2021, Edwards made $90,000 in state political contributions, and the Edwards  
PAC made $203,000 in federal contributions. A full list of recipients, contribution 
amounts, and policy is available on our website. Additionally, a portion of our industry 
association membership dues were spent on federal lobbying. These include:
 •  Advanced Medical Technology Association: $30,284
 •  California Life Sciences Association: $14,490
Edwards received the highest score in the 2021 CPA-Zicklin Index for political  
disclosure and accountability. Edwards is designated as a “CPA-Zicklin Trendsetter.”  
The CPA-Zicklin Index benchmarks the political disclosure and accountability policies 
and practices of leading U.S. public companies. The Center for Political Accountability 
in conjunction with the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research at The Wharton 
School at the University of Pennsylvania produce the Index annually.HIGHLIGHT STORY
EHM Partner Performs Life-Saving  
Heart Surgeries in Mongolia
Our Every Heartbeat Matter’s partner, Heart Saving Project (HSP), is a  
Japanese non-profit organization in which Japanese pediatric cardiologists  
and anesthesiologists travel to Mongolia to conduct heart screening and  
catheterization for children and to educate local doctors. A long-term goal 
of HSP is to train and support pediatric cardiologists in Mongolia on how to 
perform life-saving heart surgeries. When COVID-19 prevented in-person 
missions,they created new ways to assist in vital surgeries through live,  
video-sharing technologies and telemedicine. Pictured is a surgery in  
process in the city of Ulaanbaatar.
27
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Patient Experience & Voice
Edwards Lifesciences works to improve the patient experience and engage  
the patient voice to support our aspiration of transforming patient lives with  
breakthrough medical technologies. As one of Edwards’ most material sustainability  
topics, we continue to evolve our program to better meet the needs of our patients.  
Understanding the patient experience and listening to patient voices strengthens  
our innovation, production, and delivery of solutions to help those fighting  
cardiovascular disease. 
Definition  
Continuously improving the patient experience with therapies developed with feedback 
and input from patients while empowering patients to support and aid each other.
Management Approach   
We understand that too often patients do not have influence over the diagnosis of  
their condition, the type of treatment they receive or how their care is delivered.  
Edwards Lifesciences focuses on providing patient-focused innovations that save  
and enhance patient lives. Patient experience and voice is one of our most material  
sustainability topics—excelling in being patient-first is consistent with our Credo. 
Edwards’ vision to improve the quality of care for millions is led by technology, clinical 
evidence and innovative solutions to improve patient care. 
Edwards is a leader among medical technology companies in establishing a formal  
patient engagement function designed to lead and empower everyone in the  
company to engage with, learn from and support patients and their families to improve 
the healthcare experience. We are a leader in our industry in best practices, including 
being the first medical device company to publish global guidance on how and why we 
work with patient organizations. This helps provide disclosure and transparency into  
our relationships to prevent potential conflicts of interest. 
While Edwards Lifesciences throughout its history has always had a “patients first”  
culture and organizational focus, Edwards’ CEO has a performance management  
objective tied to increasing employee exposure to patients, which further promotes  
a strong culture consistent with the Credo and our Aspirations.  The Vice President of Medical Affairs and Patient Engagement is responsible for  
ensuring that all patient engagement activities are aligned with our Aspirations to 
transform patient care through innovative technologies and to attract and engage  
talented employees. Our global Patient Engagement team creates opportunities  
to better incorporate the patient perspective into our business strategy. They  
enable meaningful patient-driven innovation by authentically empowering  
patients, advocates and healthcare stakeholders to broaden access to treatments 
and transform quality of life.
Evidence indicates that empowered, engaged patients experience better clinical  
outcomes. For this reason, Edwards’ Patient Engagement function maintains and  
consistently updates an approach to empowering patients, including sponsoring  
patient listening sessions, conducting Science of Patient Input (SPI) studies,  
supporting patient advocacy groups who represent the patient voice and  
collaborating with patients to exercise their voices within the healthcare system.
GRAPHIC HERE?
Growing the Patient Voice through Partnerships
When patients use their voices, they do more than just advocate for themselves— 
they inspire others to speak up and support each other in working toward healthier 
outcomes. We believe in the work undertaken by patient advocacy groups, and we  
are proud to support those organizations through resource sharing and charitable 
contributions.
28
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Edwards Lifesciences provides charitable grants to the American Heart Association  
for their Heart Valve Ambassador Program, which connects heart valve patients  
to a group of dedicated individuals who offer resources and support, as well as the 
Heart Valve Education Center, where patients can connect with and learn from other 
patients. We also partner with the AHA on Target: Aortic Stenosis. This program  
enhances the patient experience from symptom onset to appropriate diagnosis  
and follow-through, to timely treatment and disease management. The  
program consists of evidence-based measurement development to better  
identify and treat patients, as well as multi-media educational resources and  
self-management care plans for people living with structural heart disease.
The company supports Heart Valve Voice US – a patient-led non-profit that  
focuses on improving the diagnosis, treatment and management of heart valve 
disease and elevating the patient voice. Heart Valve Voice US is part of Edwards’ 
international support of Global Heart Hub, a growing global patient advocacy  
non-profit federation of heart valve patient organizations reaching patients in 
Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Italy, Germany, France, Japan, Australia, 
Brazil and several other countries. 
Other patient advocacy programs Edwards supports include:
 •  Mended Hearts Trained Accredited Patient Visitor and Peer-to-Peer  
Advocate programs
 •  Mended Hearts Clinical Trial Awareness campaign that educates,  
empowers and encourages valve patients to explore all options
 •  Alliance for Aging Research’s annual Heart Valve Disease  
Awareness campaign
 •  Disease awareness programs led by patient organizations Sepsis  
Alliance and Conquering Congenital Heart Disease
Additional global patient organization support can be found on our  
Patient Voice web page.The Patient Experience
The experience for those suffering from cardiovascular disease remains complex and 
filled with obstacles. The treatment process can be inconsistent from one patient to 
the next and evidence indicates that empowered, engaged patients experience better 
clinical outcomes. For this reason, Edwards’ Patient Engagement function maintains 
and consistently updates the company’s approach to empowering patients, including 
sponsoring patient listening sessions, conducting Science of Patient Input (SPI) studies, 
supporting patient advocacy groups who represent patients’ voices and helping  
patients and their care partners exercise their voices to improve the healthcare system.
Annually, Edwards hosts The Patient Experience. This event brings together  
patients and their care partners to connect and share their experiences with our  
employees and other patients. Before the global COVID-19 pandemic, these events 
were held on an annual basis in multiple Edwards locations around the world.  
During the pandemic, Edwards’ team pivoted to virtual engagements to ensure the 
continuity of engagement between patients, care partners and Edwards employees. 
Through this program, Edwards gains important insights into the patient journey,  
from symptoms and diagnosis through treatment and recovery, as well as the  
concerns and challenges that are faced along the diagnosis and treatment pathway. 
This approach supports our target to ensure that our therapies are addressing the  
needs of patients through an increasingly collaborative patient engagement process. 
This target aligns to UN SDG 3:Good Health & Well-Being.
Addressing Patient Needs and Connection  
Along the Journey to Heart Health
Edwards strives to ensure all patients have a voice in shaping their treatment  
experience, and we recognize that many patients benefit from minimally invasive  
procedures. To increase access to minimally invasive procedures, Edwards drives  
innovation in TAVR. TAVR allows physicians to replace heart valves with a catheter  
instead of surgically opening the chest. To learn more about patient experiences  
with Edwards’ heart valves, browse our collection of patient stories.29
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Our Edwards PatientConnect program extends our support for patients beyond  
their TAVR procedure, empowering them through information, resources and  
opportunities to participate in peer support, educational programs and advocacy.  
By cultivating a community of patients who want to stay informed and to share  
their experience with others, together we are improving the lives of people living  
with heart valve disease.
Patient Resources
After the launch of Edwards’ newly created Patient Support Center (PSC) in 2020,  
we saw the need for this patient resource continually increase. The PSC is a dedicated 
resource for patients or their care partners who have questions related to Edwards’ 
products or services.
 We continue to focus on raising patient awareness and ensuring patients have the  
resources and access to the therapies they need. To read more about our educational 
initiatives for better care and our work to improve access, please see our Annual  
Performance in the Access to Healthcare section of this report. Edwards.com offers information on heart valve disease and treatment, as well as  
FAQs and a glossary of terminology. Additionally, our Reach for the Heart disease  
awareness website, along with NewHeartValve and YourTissueValve websites  
provide comprehensive information on aortic stenosis and options for treatment. 
Edwards places a priority on gathering patient insights across the total product  
lifecycle, so we invest in patient preference studies among various patient groups  
to determine the benefit-risk trade-offs for new therapies. Using qualitative and  
quantitative methods, Edwards ensures the patient voice is heard from development  
to commercialization of new technologies.
Patient Voice in Product Design and Development
Edwards works to incorporate patients’ input into every stage of our product  
development. By listening to patients and capturing their input through both  
qualitative and quantitative methods, we can provide care that meets individual  
needs and preferences. From early-stage product design to early feasibility studies  
and clinical trials, integrating patient input makes our products more effective.  
This aligns with our Aspiration to ensure that our therapies are addressing the needs   
of patients through an increasingly collaborative patient engagement process,  
and that we will also continue to evolve how patient input is integrated into  
product development. 
We look to continue developing quantitative data to evaluate the relative  
importance and value of products through the eyes of the patient community.  
We are the first medical device company to develop and publicly publish these kinds  
of studies, leading the charge in improving the patient experience. Some of our most  
recent work studied patient preferences when choosing between aortic stenosis  
(AS) treatments, taking into account the risk-benefit analysis that is done when  
choosing between two types of valve replacements. The study focused on the patient  
experience and how patients weigh the decision on what valve replacement to  
pursue, which informs Edwards’ future product development approach. In 2021, we 
broadened our approach globally, studying AS patient preferences in Australia and  
Japan to incorporate patient perspectives into market access decisions. We also  
completed a study aimed to quantify patients’ preferences for benefits and risks  
associated with treating degenerative mitral regurgitation via open heart surgical  
repair versus a beating-heart surgical approach.
1   Mack M, Leon M, Thourani R, et al.  Transcatheter aortic-valve replacement with a balloon-expandable valve in low-
risk patients. N Engl J Med 2019;380:1695-705.
2   Wood, D.A.; Lauck, S.B.; Cairns, J.A. et al. The Vancouver 3M (Multidisciplinary, Multimodality, But Minimalist) Clinical 
Pathway Facilitates Safe Next-Day Discharge Home at Low-, Medium-, and High-volume Transfemoral Transcatheter 
Aortic Valve Replacement Centers: The 3M TAVI Study. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2019With TAVR as a treatment option to treat progressive AS disease,  
we believe the current paradigm needs a deeper look30
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Performance  
As Edwards continues to grow our business and expand across the globe, we consider it a 
top priority to maintain a consistent patient-focused culture. We recognize that patient 
engagement provides a powerful sense of purpose in our work for many of Edwards’  
employees, and we continue to prioritize facilitating connections between patients,  
caregivers and our employees. 
Patient Support Center
The Patient Support Center (PSC) was created to provide compassionate, responsive 
support that contributes to a consistent, positive experience with the company.  
During 2021 as awareness of the PSC grew, inquiries more than doubled compared  
to the prior year, with growth in particular in questions about post-procedure topics.  
Those inquiring are directed to their physicians for any questions that relate to medical 
advice. In 2021, the PSC also began supporting patient inquiries about Edwards’  
clinical trials. 
The PSC continued providing an early signal of patient interest and activity for “hot” 
topics. For example, when COVID-19 vaccines were approved, we quickly learned that 
patients had questions about vaccinations and their heart valves.
Patient Engagement and Events
As a result of COVID-19, we converted our 2020 Patient Experience event to a global,  
virtual model in 2021, allowing employees to safely engage with patients through live  
videoconferencing. While the experiences were different than our in-person Patient  
Experience events, the virtual format allowed for more employees to participate, resulting 
in more employees hearing patient stories and nearly doubling year-over-year employee 
exposure to patients. 
As part of this inspired pivot, in 2021 we launched a new hybrid patient listening session 
framework and hosted six sessions reaching 2,000+ employees. This increased our  
employee engagement with patients by 29 percent and allowed us to learn directly from 
patients about their journeys with structural heart disease, and better guide a number of 
our internal workstreams and efforts to improve patient access, experience and outcomes. 
In May 2022, we were pleased to be able to host The Patient Experience (TPE) in person at 
our global headquarters in Irvine, Calif. – the first live event of this type since 2019. True to our Credo of creating a community unified in improving the lives of patients all 
around the world, TPE has become an important way for us to hear from those who are  
directly impacted by our therapies. During TPE, we learn valuable insights from this  
community of patients and caregivers – lessons that ultimately impact what we do at  
Edwards, every day. In early 2022, we returned to our in-person model that was  
especially unique because this group of patients included many who were scheduled  
to attend in 2020. More than 80 patients, care partners and guests attended from  
around the U.S. and Canada.
Elevating Partnerships Focused on Patient Voice
Throughout 2021, we were challenged to find new, creative ways to continue our work  
in amplifying patient voices in what was largely a virtual engagement environment.  
To maximize impact, we focused on our established partnerships as an area of opportunity 
to increase impact. The pandemic continued to provide unique opportunities to grow these 
partnerships and reach even more patients, including:
 •  Through financial support from Edwards, Mended Hearts trained more peer-support 
ambassadors to provide support to heart valve patients online and virtually, expanding 
their ability to reach more patients than prior years (typically, ambassadors connected 
with other patients in the hospital or over the phone)
 •  With a grant from Edwards, Heart Valve Voice US, the Global Heart Hub and scores of 
patient organizations continued working to reach patients through social and earned 
media to educate them on the risks of avoiding heart disease care in the pandemic
 •  Patient organizations supported through Edwards Foundation grants voiced their  
support for public policies to allow for increased patient access to telehealth services
 31
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
May 2022, Edwards Lifesciences welcomed 80 visitors, including patients,  
their care partners and guests to our Irvine, Calif.  corporate headquarters  
to get an insiders’ look into our more than 60-year history, meet the teams  
who made their heart valves and share their inspirational journeys with  
our employees. 
Sarah Sue, a 20-year-old Ohio State University student who attends school  
on a volleyball scholarship, was among them. She and her parents, Mike and  
Carole, spent an emotional two days getting to know the company behind the 
heart valve technology that has forever changed their daughter’s life.
Sarah Sue is a congenital heart patient who had her first open-heart surgery  
soon after birth. She had to have subsequent surgeries, and, in December 
2020, she made the decision to have her pulmonary valve replaced in order to  HIGHLIGHT STORY
Transforming Lives, One Patient at a Time  
continue playing volleyball. The transcatheter heart valve therapy had her  
back on the court just a few weeks after surgery, playing the game she loves. 
Now, every time she steps onto the volleyball court, she thanks her new  
heart valve, which she affectionately calls Valerie.  Sarah Sue has become  
a patient advocate through her collaboration with the AHA and is able to  
bring hope to other families by sharing her journey.
with hybrid 
events   Employee-to-patient 
engagement up  
29%  32
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Edwards Lifesciences is a leader in patient-focused innovations for structural heart  
disease and critical care technologies. The products section of our 2021 Sustainability  
Report contains our management approach and annual performance for the following  
material topics:
 •  Product Safety & Quality
 •  Supply Chain Management
 •  Product Design & Innovation
Product Safety & Quality
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to maintain product safety and quality supports our  
aspiration of excelling as a trusted partner through distinguished quality and integrity. 
Creating safe, quality products is the foundation of both our business success, our  
culture, and our purpose. Our reputation rests on delivering innovative, trustworthy  
products that save patient lives.
Definition  
Monitoring, managing and reducing negative health and safety impacts of Edwards’  
products. Maintenance of product quality and ensuring Edwards’ products are free  
from any deficiencies or defects.
Products
Management Approach  
Our products are the essence of our business and enable patients to enjoy long  
and healthy lives. In order to remain a trusted partner to patients and healthcare  
professionals, we are committed to maintaining the high quality of our products. 
Employees are trained on product safety as part of our Quality Management  
System through LearningPath Learning Management Systems or in-person classes. 
The duration of the training is dependent on each employee’s role and how much  
impact they have over product safety. 
Employees receive annual training and recertification based on potential risk of 
the process on product or patient safety associated with their role. We also require 
re-training based on different trigger events such as training or document content 
change, prolonged absence from executing the task or process, and process or  
product non-conformance that requires employee training.
Edwards communicates our quality and safety standards to suppliers through the 
specifications and requirements in every purchase order as well as in our Supplier 
Quality Agreements. To learn more about how we manage product safety and quality   
in our value chain, please visit the Supply Chain Management section.
The Governance Map  on the next page illustrates our management structure  
for product quality and safety.33
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Governance Map 
Regulatory Compliance for Quality
As a medical technology company, Edwards must comply with strict regulation  
requirements regarding the design, development, manufacture and distribution of  
our products and services. These include U.S. FDA regulations as well as those set by  
international regulatory bodies. We undergo frequent audits by these agencies to c  
onfirm compliance with all applicable standards and regulations.
We have established a companywide Quality System defined in our Edwards Lifesciences 
Quality Manual. Edwards’ products and services satisfy customer requirements while 
complying with regulatory requirements in every country where Edwards sells products. 
The regulatory requirements we adhere to include, but are not limited to:
 •  ISO 13485 Medical Devices – Quality Management Systems –  
Requirements for Regulatory Purposes*
 •  ISO 14971 Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices
 •  U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act:
   • 21 CFR part 11 – Electronic Records; Electronic Signatures
   •  21 CFR part 820 – Quality System Regulations
 •  (EU) 2017/745, European Medical Device Regulationsclick to view •  Canadian Medical Device Regulations (CMDR)
 •  Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP)
 •  Japan Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (JPAL)
 •  Australian Therapeutic Goods Act 1989 and associated regulations
 •  Brazilian Good Manufacturing Practices (RDC ANVISA 16/2013)
 •  China Regulations on Supervision and Administration of Medical Devices   
(Decree No. 739)
Our Quality System enables us to meet regulatory requirements as applicable.
*For manufacturers of medical devices, ISO 13485 is a widely accepted model for  
demonstrating compliance to worldwide laws and regulations. The ISO standard meets  
the comprehensive requirements for a Quality Management System and ensures a  
consistent output. The Edwards Lifesciences LLC ISO 13485 Certification includes the  
design, development, production and distribution of:
 •  Biological Surgical Heart Valves and Accessories (Delivery System and Inflation  
Device, Handles, Sizers, Trays, Suture Fastener, Heart Support Device)
 •  Transcatheter Heart Valve Systems (Biological Heart Valves, Delivery Systems,  
Balloon Catheters) and Accessories (Access Devices, Inflation Devices and Crimpers)
 •  Transcatheter Valve Repairs and Replacement Systems (Implants, Delivery System) and  
Accessories (Insertion Accessories, Loading System, Dilator Kit, Stabilizer, incl. Base Plate)
 •  Annuloplasty Rings and Accessories (Handles, Sizers, and Trays)
 •    Biological Pericardial Patches for the Area of Heart Valve Replacement, Repair  
and Reconstruction
 •  Catheters, Cannula and Occlusion Devices and Accessories (Introducers Sheaths,  
Percutaneous Insertion Kits)
 •  Hemodynamic Monitoring Equipment and Disposables; Medical Devices used for  
the Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease; Medical Devices used in the Diagnosis  
and Treatment of Peripheral Vascular Disease; and Medical Devices for the  
Treatment of Diseases of the Heart and the Central Circulatory System
Internal Quality Controls
Please review the strategy execution section of our Product Safety & Quality  
governance map for information on internal quality controls.
Our Global Product Complaint Handling System collects, analyzes and manages  
customer feedback regarding Edwards’ products. We educate all Edwards employees  
regarding their reporting responsibilities, and we require every individual to report  
complaints no more than 48 hours after receipt. We assess all feedback with the aim  
of continually improving our products to meet customer and patient needs.Corporate
Governance
Environmental
Health & Safety
Ethics &
Compliance
Product Safety
& QualityFoundationSupply  Chain
Management
Human Capital 
Management34
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Manufacturing Execution System
Edwards has additional quality system and manufacturing initiatives to streamline and 
improve our product manufacturing processes. Our Edwards Production System aims to 
reduce waste, inventory and cycle times while improving quality, efficiency and overall 
product performance. This includes key initiatives to our Quality and Global Supply Chain 
programs including Smart Factory and Next Gen Quality. These are deployed in each of  
our business units and operation sites that implement a proactive quality focus through 
device performance and process controls, with an aspiration of achieving 6 Sigma  
productivity. These programs help increase compliance at our facilities and prepare us  
for external audits.
Managing Product Recalls
Our Quality System focuses on the implementation of strong design and development 
work in our manufacturing processes. Please refer to our governance map for information 
on how Edwards uses feedback mechanisms and conducts corrective actions.
If we determine a field corrective action is necessary, the Vice President of Quality for the 
impacted unit is responsible for promptly executing this action to remediate all affected 
products appropriately. In addition, we have systems in place for necessary actions to  
correct and prevent the recurrence of the issue.
Edwards is committed to resolving any recall issues by following regulations of the  
markets/countries impacted and using our expertise in quality management to  
implement required actions. We have a target to achieve no significant disruption of  
product availability, which aligns with UN SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being.
In the U.S., the FDA categorizes recalls into three classes:
 •  Class I: Reasonable probability that the use of the product will cause severe  
adverse health consequences or death
 •  Class II: Use of the product may cause temporary or medically reversible  
adverse health consequences
 •  Class III: Use of the product is not likely to cause adverse health consequencesWithin the European Union (EU), manufacturers must submit a field safety notice  
to inform the National Competent Authorities of any action taken to reduce risk of  
death or serious deterioration in health associated with the use of a medical device  
already on the market.
A team of Edwards engineers handles requests for information from customers  
regarding product quality and safety. The Vice President of Product Safety or regional 
delegates conduct customer visits to monitor product performance and to track  
customer and patient satisfaction.
Managing Clinical Research
Edwards is committed to following all ethical considerations and regulatory  
requirements while conducting clinical research. We carry out our research,  
including the use of any outsourced third-party vendor, in accordance with the  
recommendations guiding physicians in biomedical research involving human  
subjects adopted by the 18th World Medical Assembly, Helsinki, Finland, 1964,  
and all subsequent updates. We conduct research in accordance with Good Clinical  
Practice and applicable regulatory requirements to ensure patient safety. Examples  
of such regulations include, but are not limited to:
 United States of America:
  •  21 CFR: Part 50 (Protection of Human Subjects), Part 803 (Medical Device  
Reporting), Part 812 (Investigational Device Exemptions), Part 814  
(Premarket Approval of Medical Devices), Part 822 (Post Market Surveillance)
  • ICH E6 – Good Clinical Practice
 European Union:
  •  ISO 14155 Clinical Investigation of Medical Devices for Human Subjects –  
Good Clinical Practice
  •  (EU) 2017/745, European Medical Device Regulations MDD 93/42/EEC
  •  MEDDEV 2.7.1 revision 4 Clinical Investigations: Serious Adverse Event  
Reporting under Directives 90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC
 Japan:
  • Japan Pharmaceutical Law (JPAL) Medical Device Ordinances
 China:
  • National Medical Products Administration (NMPA)35
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Performance  
Edwards Lifesciences’ performance highlights our relentless focus on managing and  
improving our quality control systems. Our target is to drive continuous improvement  
efforts to eliminate patient safety-related Class I product removals. This target aligns  
to UN SDG 3: Good Health & Well-Being.
Improving Patient Safety through Device Tracking
In 2013, the U.S. FDA established a Unique Device Identification (UDI) system that  
enables more comprehensive tracking of medical devices. UDI system implementation  
will continue according to established compliance dates based primarily on device  
classification. Using UDI numbers reduces the chance of patient misidentification of  
products.
Next Generation Quality 
In 2021, Edwards launched the Next Gen Quality program, which will strategically  
transform our quality system to support growth and drive scalability, adapt quickly to the 
changing regulatory landscape, and deliver innovative technologies with unparalleled 
quality and speed. Next Gen Quality focuses on several processes including: streamlining   
design control processes to be fit for purpose; improving new material qualification 
through the use of automation and standardization; optimizing incoming components  
inspection process; and simplifying our internal regulatory approval process. 
Throughout 2021 and in 2022, Edwards has made significant progress in advancing our 
Next Gen Quality objectives. We standardized roles and responsibilities; made procedural 
updates to simplify product development workflows; and improved the quality training 
curriculum and certification standards. Our Quality Labs focused on automating systems  
to shorten the timeline for approval while adopting new industry standards. Quality  
control inspection process improvements were made across many of our manufacturing 
sites, utilizing risk management, Critical Control Point methodology, and automated data 
capture technology. With a strong culture of quality, all Edwards employees are empowered 
to challenge our systems, identify opportunities, and prioritize continuous improvement. 
Our commitment to Edwards’ patient-focused innovation strategy remains top of mind  
as we continue to transform our quality system for the future.
Product Recalls
In 2021, Edwards did not have any Class I recalls resulting in device retrievals. Edwards  
provides complete information on recalls through the FDA’s publicly available database   
for medical device recalls.Edwards requires all applicable clinical research to have independent Ethics or  
Institutional Review Board approval and oversight as well as patient authorization  
to participate in research – via a signed patient informed consent form – prior to  
initiation of research activities. We employ the routine use of independent Data 
Safety Monitoring Boards and Clinical Event Committees in accordance with FDA 
Guidance for Clinical Trial Sponsors – Establishment and Operation of Clinical  
Trial Data Monitoring Committees. Edwards also follows Section 801 of the FDA  
Amendments Act (FDAAA 801 and the Final Rule) for public protocol registration  
of clinical trials and subsequent reporting of clinical trial results. There are  
multiple ways to report product or research grievances directly to Edwards,  
including the Edwards.com contact us webpage. This page also provides a way  
for patients and healthcare providers to find privacy information and request  
product information or removal of personal data.
~2 ,000  Engineers
7Manufacturing  
Locations Around  
the World
Resilient Supply Chain36
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
HIGHLIGHT STORY
Edwards MITRIS RESILIA Valve Receives  
FDA Approval for Mitral Replacement Surgeries
This highlight story and referenced news release includes forward-looking statements within  
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the  
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but  
are not limited to, statements made by Dr. Accola and Mr. Chopra and statements regarding  
expected product benefits, patient outcomes, future plans related to the product lines, objectives 
and expectations and other statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements 
are based on estimates and assumptions made by management of the company and are believed  
to be reasonable, though they are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our forward-  
looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we do not undertake  
any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after  
the date of the statement. Investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking 
statements.Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements based on a  
number of factors as detailed in the company’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. 
These filings, along with important safety information about our products, may be found  
at Edwards.com.
Edwards, Edwards Lifesciences, the stylized E logo, Carpentier-Edwards, Carpentier-Edwards 
PERIMOUNT, MITRIS, MITRIS RESILIA, PERIMOUNT, and RESILIA are trademarks of Edwards  
Lifesciences Corporation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.  
This statement is made on behalf of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and its subsidiaries.
In early 2022, Edwards Lifesciences received approval from the U.S. Food  
and Drug Administration (FDA) for the MITRIS RESILIA valve, a tissue valve  
replacement specifically designed for the heart’s mitral position. This therapy  
is the company’s latest innovation offering advanced RESILIA tissue with an  
anti-calcification technology that also allows devices to be stored under dry  
packaging conditions, facilitating ease of use.
RESILIA tissue is bovine pericardial tissue and serves as the platform for 
Edwards’ new class of valves. “For patients who need mitral valve replacement,  
the advanced MITRIS RESILIA valve is based on a trusted pericardial valve  
platform, designed to mimic the native valve and incorporating tissue with  
integrity-preservation technology that will potentially allow the valve to last  
longer,” said Kevin Accola, M.D., Cardiovascular Surgeon, AdventHealth  
Orlando.Edwards is dedicated to partnering with clinicians to develop patient- 
centric innovations for complex surgical structural heart procedures that  
improve long-term care and outcomes for patients. The introduction of the  
MITRIS RESILIA valve completes the portfolio of surgical heart valve  
innovations incorporating the advanced RESILIA tissue, including an aortic  
valve, an aortic valved conduit and now a mitral valve.  Edwards continues  
to invest in innovations in the surgical structural heart field.
In addition to FDA approval, the MITRIS RESILIA valve has also received  
regulatory approval in Japan, Canada, and other countries globally. 
For more information, please see the related press release and product page. 37
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Supply Chain Management
Edwards Lifesciences’ supply chain management practices focus on product  
lifecycle, design and innovation, and product stewardship, supporting our aspiration  
of transforming patient lives with breakthrough medical technologies.
Definition  
Monitoring and assessing the product quality, safety, social and environmental  
performance of Edwards’ suppliers, and maintaining responsible procurement practices. Governance Map
The governance map illustrates our Supply Chain Management structure.  
Corporate
Governance
Environmental
Health & Safety
Ethics &
Compliance
Product Safety
& QualityFoundationSupply  Chain
Management
Human Capital 
Managementclick to view
Procurement Practices 
With more than 300 direct material suppliers for all of our global products, Edwards  
is selective when evaluating and adding new suppliers to our portfolio. To limit risk  
exposure, we avoid adding new direct materials suppliers, only adding them when there 
is a clear business case, such as new technology or new capability or capacity needs.  
In the few cases where we add suppliers, we follow a rigorous process that includes  
extensive due diligence. As a result, we have designated and prioritized a significant  
reduction of our direct materials supplier base over the upcoming years.
In 2021, Edwards developed a Supplier Code of Conduct that sets forth expectations  
for suppliers working with Edwards. As a next step, we are working toward supplier  
acknowledgement of the requirements of the Code. The Code also ties our expectations 
to our Credo and the importance of business integrity, in addition to the following:Management Approach
Supply Chain Management
We create industry-leading therapies for cardiovascular disease through  
partnerships with our suppliers. We strive to improve our supplier base annually  
by ensuring our best suppliers work on our new products, continuing to rationalize  
and reduce our supply base and improving performance.
We know supply chain performance directly impacts innovation and the quality  
of our products, so we insist on high product quality and safety at every level.  
Our Global Supply Chain and Product Quality departments collaborate with our  
key partner suppliers on risk management, improvement action plans and  
consistent high product quality. Our supplier partnerships are essential in  
delivering the quality products that drive Edwards’ success. We continuously  
strive to improve our procurement practices and expand supplier engagement.
Edwards’ Supply Chain segmentation has established the top 15 strategic direct  
materials suppliers. Edwards Supply Chain holds an annual Partner Forum to facilitate 
sustainability reviews and further alignment, share progress on sustainability targets  
and practices, and set expectations for the coming year.38
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
intellectual property, reducing the chance that sustainability violations will impact  
our stakeholders and business. Approximately 80 percent of Edwards’ annual spend 
comes from lower-risk locations.
We assign all suppliers in our system a Risk level by our Quality organization.  
Suppliers are designated either a Risk level 1, 2 or 3 rating. Risk level 1 represents the 
“highest risk” for suppliers that could impact patient safety or product performance.  
We must classify Risk level 1 suppliers as “Approved” in our Quality System to conduct 
any business with them.
We conduct audits in accordance with our quality system requirements. These audits 
target the highest-risk suppliers to assess their quality systems, supporting Edwards’ 
compliance with applicable regulations for medical device production. Approval is 
granted upon completion of an audit, a corrective action plan and a part qualification 
process. Our established decision tree process considers the potential impact of supplied 
materials to patient safety and product performance, assigning the risk level per part 
number sourced. Additionally, we established similar decision trees for service suppliers 
falling within the requirements of our quality management system, to receive  
qualification and monitoring.
Localizing Supply and Distribution
Edwards strives to protect both the environment and our bottom line by sourcing  
materials as close as possible to our manufacturing sites. Where feasible, we  
strategically align distribution facilities with the global markets we serve, reducing 
transportation costs and environmental impacts. Our new target for 2023 is to  
reduce product distribution air miles traveled by an additional 1.5 million compared  
to our 2018 baseline, to decrease freight and distribution costs. 
Supplier Sustainability
We have a number of sustainability considerations throughout Edwards’ supply chain:
 •  Product Quality – Across all sites, we continue to focus on improved process  
capability, yield improvement and scrap reduction, allowing for a smaller amount  
of product disposal on an annualized basis.
 •  Patient Safety and Impact – We upgraded our new product development  
process and simplified our Quality System, allowing for continued focus on product  
improvement and building quality at the source during product development  
and launch. •  Labor and employment standards, prohibition of child labor,  
human trafficking, and fair working conditions
 • Data privacy and confidentiality
 • Environmental standards
With our global Part Qualification Process, we collaborate with suppliers on product 
manufacturability, while improving product quality and cost. Our global supplier  
capacity framework helps our suppliers plan their capacity for growth. We also review 
sustainability and business continuity planning in Quarterly Business Reviews with  
our top strategic and key suppliers to align on key initiatives. These processes keep our 
strategic and key suppliers engaged and informed on our goals and expectations.
Assessing and Monitoring Supply Chain Risk
Before partnering with any new suppliers, Edwards conducts a comprehensive  
supplier evaluation and supplier on-boarding process. Direct materials suppliers also  
require on-site assessment of facilities, quality control systems, and Quality System  
audits. Once Edwards approves a supplier, we periodically conduct follow-up supplier  
audits and performance reviews to promote continual adherence to our standards.  
For every new part, the supplier completes a form through which they disclose the  
material content of the products.
Edwards also has a global supply risk management and governance process that  
includes a global risk assessment process to evaluate potential supply risks on key  
components and suppliers. These include risks due to location, material content and 
country regulations, as well as sole source risks. We prefer doing business in countries 
with higher ethical standards and protections for information technology and  n	North America  
n Asia    
n Europe   
n Latin America/Caribbean9%
72%11%8%Direct Suppliers  
by Region39
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
 •  Lean Manufacturing Efforts – We identify manufacturing lines each year for  
reconfiguration to determine where and how we can eliminate waste and increase 
outputs with the same number of people, reducing environmental impact.
 •  Product Design & Innovation – We build collaborative, long-term relationships  
with strategic and key suppliers who support our vision for innovation and engage 
our partner suppliers during the product innovation stage.
Because we want our suppliers to be long-term partners, Edwards values suppliers  
who exhibit sustainable practices. Edwards requires all suppliers to employ ethical and 
responsible business practices. We adhere to the California Transparency in Supply 
Chains Act of 2010 by disclosing our actions to prevent human trafficking and slavery. 
Our Responsible Supply Chain Policy outlines our approach and expectations for  
suppliers, including:
 • Fair labor practices  • Protection of human rights
 • Environmental responsibility  • Socially responsible behavior
 • Workplace health and safety  • Legal compliance
 • Ethical practices
Edwards has developed supplier metrics to measure quality levels and other  
expectations for each of our preferred suppliers. These include:
 •  ISO 13485 Certification where applicable  • Minimum scar-free rates
 •  Completion of comprehensive quality • Minimum performance on good   
audit with no critical findings   delivery and service levels
 • Minimum lot acceptance rates
We gather supplier metrics through the Due Diligence Questionnaire (DDQ). All  
Regulated Suppliers and high-spend Non-Regulated Suppliers must undergo an  
additional evaluation through the DDQ. The DDQ requires suppliers to respond to  
questions in four main topic areas: environmental considerations, public disclosures, 
employee health & safety, and other topics of concern. We accept or deny suppliers 
based on their responses to the DDQ.
There are four questions in the DDQ that we consider “drop out” criteria. These  
questions must be answered favorably in order for the supplier to be considered an  
Edwards supplier partner. A negative response on these criteria will result in an  
automatic “drop out.” These “drop out” minimum criteria are: •  Environment. The supplier must comply with all product-related hazardous  
materials and trade regulations, such as WEE, RoHS, REACH, TSCA, BPA, DEHP,  
ODS and others.
 •  Employment and Safety. The supplier must comply with all employment laws  
and regulations and industry employment practices, as applicable to the countries  
in which they operate.
 •  Human Rights. Per our Code of Conduct, Edwards respects the human rights of  
all workers and does not tolerate any form of human rights or labor abuses in its  
supply chain. The supplier must comply with the UK Modern Day Slavery regulations, 
U.S. Human Trafficking regulations and California (USA) Transparency in Supply 
Chains Act. 
 •  Child Labor. The supplier must not employ children under 16 years of age in job  
tasks that may have higher safety and health risks than adults.
Any other DDQ responses that are answered unfavorably will be evaluated on an  
individual basis with consideration for overall company reputation and risk. To read more 
about the Supplier EHS Assessment approach, please refer to our 2021 EHS Report.
Supplier Partnerships for Innovation
Edwards builds collaborative, long-term relationships with strategic and key suppliers 
who support our vision for innovation and engage our partner suppliers during the  
product innovation stage. Through our Value Engineering capability, we ask our strategic 
and key suppliers to provide insight into the design and manufacturing of new products. 
This includes supply chain employees on most research and development product teams 
to facilitate supplier selection and early supplier involvement. In this way, we enable our 
research and development teams to collaborate with suppliers throughout the product 
development process.
Edwards is a member of the Medical Device Industry Supply Chain council, an  
informal network that identifies opportunities to improve the medical devices supply 
chain. Edwards provides in-depth views of supply chains, sharing strategic and tactical 
approaches to address challenges and opportunities, and positively influences the  
industry standard for operational efficiency and effectiveness.  To read more about the 
supply chain council, please visit their website.
Intellectual Property
Protecting intellectual property is important to maintaining Edwards’ leadership  
position in medical technology innovation. The strength of our proprietary technology 40
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
fuels our research and the development of new, patient-focused solutions. Edwards 
owns more than 6,000 issued patents and pending patent applications in both the U.S. 
and foreign jurisdictions. We monitor our competitors to identify possible infringement, 
protect our patents and take appropriate action when required. We actively generate 
new intellectual property (IP) and pursue the acquisition of complementary IP across 
our businesses. We consider safeguarding Edwards’ IP in awarding business to preferred 
partner suppliers.
Chemical and Material Stewardship
Edwards Lifesciences is committed to the long-term health of patients. Our goal  
is to ensure that our products are fully compliant with chemical regulations and  
requirements. Our procedures assess the maxterials in our products and allow for  
continuous improvements in removing banned materials. Safety procedures protect  
our employees by limiting exposure to potentially harmful chemicals.
The Product Stewardship team provides quarterly updates on the status of each  
business unit’s activities and updates on new or revised chemical regulations that  
will impact Edwards Lifesciences.
Edwards strives for 100 percent compliance with various materials regulations  
ranging from restricting the use of certain hazardous substances in medical devices  
to product labeling. For example, Europe’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) 
directive restricts hazardous substances used in electrical and electronic equipment, 
whereas China’s RoHS requires these products to be labeled appropriately.  
Our focus extends to our supply chain, where we require compliance with all applicable 
regulations for chemical and materials use.
Hazardous materials regulations can evolve quickly. For example, REACH adds new  
substances of very high concern to its list every six months. Edwards monitors these 
changes and, when we identify a pending restriction that might impact our business,  
we act immediately by briefing our Steering Committee for Product Stewardship and 
begin assessing our products.
Conflict Minerals
We use 3TG (tantalum, tin/tungsten and gold) for the functionality and production of 
certain of our parts and products. We have issued a Conflict Minerals Policy Statement 
and established a conflict mineral program to identify 3TGs in our products, to obtain 
responses from our direct and indirect suppliers to assess where the materials have been HIGHLIGHT STORY
2021 Edwards Annual Supplier Partner Forum
At its annual Partner Forum, Global Supply Chain hosted key and strategic  
suppliers for information sharing and networking and to hear about current  
and upcoming business priorities at Edwards. Awards were also presented  
to suppliers based on performance.
The Partner Forum topics included updates from each of the Edwards  
Business Unit’s R&D departments including live demonstrations of our  
new products. There was a Listening Session where a patient talked about 
her experience before and after receiving an Edwards valve replacement.  
Suppliers who directly contributed to the patient’s implant were invited  
on stage. There were also presentations discussing planned initiatives for 
2022 and our expectations of suppliers for the year. 
After the Forum, supplier feedback expressed excitement about the  
direction Edwards is heading and clear expectations on how each can  
contribute to raising the bar going forward.41
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Performance  
Supply Chain Management
In 2021, we continued to focus on strengthening our procurement practices. We put  
forth a significant effort to uplift supplier performance in our top strategic and key  
suppliers, who account for a significant percentage of our direct material spend. We  
completed and documented technical assessments to help identify gaps in supplier  
capability and maturity. These technical assessments then allowed us to develop  
improvement plans to bolster supply chain resilience and partnership. 
In 2020, we engaged a third party to evaluate our direct suppliers and multiple  
diversity categories were identified, such as small, disadvantaged businesses. We  
are now tracking our U.S. suppliers utilizing a diversity metric dashboard. Going forward, 
we are working closely with Edwards’ VP of Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging to set new  
goals specific to supplier diversity. We also achieved our target of successfully deploying  
our Sustainability Program and Review process to strategic suppliers in 2020 and 2021.   
We look forward to engaging our key suppliers in this process throughout 2022.
In 2021, we completed the integration of MedAccred into our quality system, a medical  
device industry-managed supply chain oversight program that identifies and verifies  
compliance to critical manufacturing process requirements. This quality improvement 
program aims to enhance patient safety, improve device quality, and reduce recalls.  
We will also begin leveraging MedAccred existing audits for sterilization. Additionally, 
through MedAccred, Edwards has been asked to participate in an FDA working group  
focused on supply chain resiliency in medical devices, which kicked off in 2022.
In 2021, our top strategic suppliers completed supplier management training  
initiatives for improved quality performance, including development of improvement  
and implementation plans. In 2022, we will expand the program to our top 40 suppliers. 
Supply Chain Resilience 
Edwards responded quickly and efficiently to supply chain needs in response to the  
COVID-19 pandemic. Like many companies, our team had to adjust to remote working  
environments when necessary, leveraging technology to keep us connected with each 
other and our suppliers. We focused on resilience and communication to ensure stability 
and long-term partnership. sourced and publish an annual Conflict Minerals Report disclosing our findings. Each 
year, we work with a third-party consultant to monitor our progress, analyze data and 
identify strategies to improve our program. Please see our Responsible Supply Chain  
page for supply chain policy statements and conflict minerals reports.
HIGHLIGHT STORY
Edwards Sets Carbon Neutrality Target
As we pursue our patient-focused innovation strategy, Edwards  
understands the importance of addressing climate change and is committed 
to driving a meaningful reduction in our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.  
In early 2022, Edwards set a new target to achieve carbon neutrality by the 
year 2030 and a commitment to set and achieve SBTi-recognized reduction 
targets for both our Scope 1, 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions.
As part of our commitment to achieve carbon neutrality by 2030, we plan to 
transition the majority of our global electricity demand to renewable sources 
over the course of the next seven years through a variety of methods, including 
onsite and offsite renewable energy generation.
We intend to establish a science-based target with SBTi in line with a 1.5°C  
scenario and are currently engaged with SBTi for approval on specific reduction 
targets for GHG emissions from our Scope 1 and 2 direct operations and Scope 3 
value stream.
1 Includes commitment to set and achieve SBTi-recognized Scope 1 and 2 and Scope 3 science-based targets
2 2020 baseline year
3 Waste and water targets were achieved in 2021; new targets currently under evaluationCarbon neutral by  
2030 and 1.5˚C  
science-based  
targets110% reduction in 
waste generation  
intensity by 20252,310% reduction in 
waste withdrawl  
intensity by 20252,3ISO 14001 & 45001  
certification at all  
manufactoring plants35% reduction in  
recordable incident 
rate by 20252
42
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
HIGHLIGHT STORY
New Ireland Manufacturing Facility LEED  
Gold Certified
In 2021, Edwards opened its newest manufacturing plant in Limerick,  
Ireland.  The facility operates on 100% renewable electricity, primarily 
from wind energy, and is Edward’s first LEED Gold certified, carbon neutral, 
and zero waste-to-landfill manufacturing plant, and Ireland’s first  
medical device manufacturing plant to achieve LEED Gold V4 certification. 
The new Ireland plant combines innovative design with critical  
functionality and features obstacle-free clean rooms and recreational 
spaces for our employees to enjoy. The building has capacity for three  
ISO 7 clean rooms, laboratories, a cafeteria, gym, and external  
athletic courts.
We continued our extensive expansion to our Irvine headquarters during 
2021, including the completion of our new LEED Platinum Entry Pavilion, 
LEED Gold Dream Big Complex, and LEED Gold Café and Conference Center. 
LEED, Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is the most widely 
used green building rating system in the world and provides a framework 
for healthy, highly efficient, and cost-saving green buildings.Risk mitigation methods included enhancements of supply network systems and  
continuity during uncertain times for many of our suppliers. Additionally, our strategic  
and key suppliers keep us informed of any potential impacts to the supply chain during 
Quarterly Business Reviews. We also presented three suppliers with a formal award at our 
annual supplier forum recognizing their responsiveness to Edwards during the pandemic. 
Distribution Network Optimization
During 2021, Edwards continued to address climate-related risks through our global  
product distribution strategy. Our medical device products have low energy demand;  
however, we continued to transform our distribution network to provide our products  
to global customers through more efficient delivery methods. In 2021, we exceeded our 
target to reduce product distribution air miles traveled by 3 million compared to our  
2018 baseline despite pandemic-related logistical challenges. We have since established  
a new target to reduce product distribution air miles traveled by an additional 1.5 million  
by 2023. 
New Goal: By 2023, reduce product distribution air miles traveled by an additional  
1.5 million vs. our 2018 baseline.ution air miles reduced in 2020 were 7.9 million,  
achieving an 80% overall reduction (as compared to 2018 baseline)
We continue to focus on long-term changes in the way we distribute products globally.  
Our product distribution strategy aims to improve normal business shipments by shifting 
away from air shipments or sourcing closer to the point of demand. This includes utilizing 
more localized ground transportation and ocean liners with temperature-controlled  
containers. Through these methods, we can achieve cost efficiencies and carbon footprint 
reduction, and we expect further optimization in product lines through 2023.
Conflict Minerals
For the 2021 reporting period, Edwards conducted two stages of reasonable country  
of origin inquiry (RCOI), supplier and smelter, in accordance with the Conflict Minerals  
Rule and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Due  
Diligence Guidance.
We designed our supplier RCOI process to identify the smelters in our supply chain and to 
determine whether the 3TG in our in-scope products originated in a covered country.
Edwards’ suppliers that provided product level responses identified 15 smelters in their 
CMRT responses during the 2021 reporting period that included 3 gold refiners, 1 tantalum 
smelter and 11 tin smelters. All the smelters and refiners identified by our suppliers for the 
2021 reporting period have been audited and recognized as conformant by the Responsible 
Mineral Assurance Process. Please see the Edwards’ Conflict Minerals Report for the 2021 
fiscal year, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 31, 2022.43
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Product Design & Innovation
At Edwards, we constantly innovate to better meet the needs of patients with  
cardiovascular disease. Our focus on innovation allows us to develop life-saving  
products and therapies that transform the lives of patients around the world.
Definition  
Designing products to better meet the needs of patients; investing in research and  
development; and employing innovative methods and solutions to improve design  
and performance of products.  
Management Approach
Product design and innovation continues to set Edwards apart. Our patient- 
focused innovation strategy is unwavering, differentiated and global. We are  
uniquely focused. At a time when medical technology companies are diversifying,  
we remain laser-focused on innovations for structural heart disease and critical  
care monitoring. We bring our decades of expertise and clinical knowledge to  
better advance potential solutions.
Another key element of our strategy is bold innovation, and we are pursuing a rich  
pipeline. We know that change doesn’t come easily and must be supported with  
strong evidence. We are focused on innovations that change the practice of medicine, 
supported by rigorous clinical trials to achieve best-in-class outcomes. 
Leadership is the third key component of our innovation strategy. We believe that  
when you are the first, you become a key contributor to shaping value creation and  
tackling unknown problems from multiple perspectives, including patient needs,  
regulatory issues, commercial and time constraints and more.  Our products and  
services address patient illnesses that are vastly undertreated. Developing the safest, 
most efficacious products grounded with robust evidence is at the heart of our  
mission to improve patients’ lives.
Edwards is a highly cross-functional organization that strives to include and respect  
diverse perspectives and is willing to explore novel solutions. Our culture allows us  
to be patient focused and employ a global innovation mindset while remaining agile  
and curious. Dreaming big, owning failures and challenging the system must also  
include a tolerance of risk, whether it be to new approaches to product design,  
cutting-edge trial methodologies allowing us to go to market faster or new proctoring 
techniques to support heart valve implants during a pandemic.  Our approach to a patient-focused innovation strategy is outlined through our  
commitment to innovation, leadership, and our singular focus. 
Patient- Focused innovation Strategy
To deliver on our commitments to high-quality products, Edwards employs a rigorous 
design and product development process that incorporates multiple design and  
management reviews as stage gates when designing new products. Quality Manage-
ment System requirements are also integral to the design process to ensure quality  
and manage risk. To learn more about the Quality Management Systems, please visit 
the Product Safety & Quality section.
 
Strategy and Execution
The Executive Leadership Team (ELT) critiques our portfolio strategy in various annual 
meetings, including strategy meetings, our Annual Operating Plan (AOP) reviews and 
other ELT meetings that occur throughout the year. Annually, the Board approves the 
Company’s Strategic Imperatives, and it is from these Strategic Imperatives that our 
key operating drivers (KODs) – quantifiable strategic milestones that include financial 
objectives and are tracked using a points system across our entire organization –  
are derived. The KODs contemplate near and long-term objectives of our multi-year  
strategy, which outlines our portfolio, pipeline innovation and overall innovation  
strategy. We use KODs to translate these strategic goals into quantifiable metrics to  
be achieved in any given year. 
Product design and innovation goals are central to our strategy execution. Excluding  
the sales representatives out in the field, all Edwards employees in every business unit, 
region and function, including our ELT, have compensation tied to our KODs, a key  
component in our annual employee incentive plan. All employees are updated on KOD 
progress quarterly though all-employee meetings and separate business team meetings.  
We report on our KOD progress in the Annual Performance section of this report.
44
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
   In 2021  Edwards invests
17%+  of annual sales   
into product  innovationThroughout the design and innovation process from conception, prototype, first  
in human, clinical trials, regulatory approval and product launch or roll out, each  
business leadership team is deeply involved in our pipeline innovation strategy as well  
as detailed design decisions. Through our product development process, these leaders  
participate in all stages of product development from concept selection through  
to launch.  
At Edwards, we regularly evaluate the need for new policies, procedures and  
programs to improve our approach to design and innovation. We must continue to  
develop and commercialize new products and technologies to remain competitive in  
the cardiovascular medical technology industry. We believe that we are competitive  
primarily because we deliver excellent clinical outcomes that are supported by  
extensive data, and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product  
performance and reliability. These differentiated clinical outcomes are in part due  
to the level of customer and clinical support we provide.
Product Development Process
Our product development process is a streamlined and flexible approach to accommodate 
the needs of each business area and all new products. The process includes a core team 
comprising an independent reviewer and delegates from multiple functions, if applicable. 
When sufficient technical information is available, a design review can take place. After  
the design review approval, and when all design and development plan deliverables are 
completed and approved, a gate review is held at the end of each phase.
Managing Regulatory Changes
The cardiovascular segment of the medical technology industry is dynamic and subject 
to significant change due to cost-of-care considerations, regulatory reform, industry 
and customer consolidation and evolving patient needs. The ability to provide products 
and technologies that demonstrate value and improve clinical outcomes is becoming 
increasingly important for medical technology manufacturers.Notable new challenges include a changing regulatory landscape, such as Europe’s  
conversion from the outdated 1992 Medical Device Directive to the 2021 Medical  
Device Regulation. The updated regulations present new timeline considerations  
when introducing innovation to Europe, historically and most likely first region for  
market entry. 
Packaging Design & Innovation
Product protection of life-saving devices is essential, and we realize that packaging 
solutions can be optimized as we continue to deepen our understanding of our global 
supply chains and expand on our knowledge of materials and designs. Edwards strives 
to maximize the value and function of our products from design to end-of-life. We 
continue to strengthen our packaging design process to enable safer, more efficient 
and cost-effective product delivery. This includes exploring sustainable solutions that 
decrease environmental impact. 
Our medical device products (primarily the heart valves and implantable devices) have 
low direct energy and emissions impact and the choice of materials from which they are 
constructed is limited and stringently regulated. In addition, these devices remain in the 
patient, therefore, there is little opportunity for product takeback. However, we have 
initiated new measures to minimize packaging waste associated with our products, 
which has the impact of reducing waste and cost, as well as indirect emissions. We are 
actively working on sustainable packaging projects focused on reducing the use of foam 
on a few existing commercialized cardiovascular product packages.
Edwards realizes that collaboration is the key to driving sustainability within the  
medical packaging ecosystem and our commitment and aspirations to lead and  
develop sustainable packaging solutions has resulted in Edwards joining the Health 
Care Packaging Recycling Council (HPRC) in 2022.  
We remain on track to roll out electronic instructions-for-use to all applicable business 
regions by the end of 2022. Both targets align to UN SDG 12: Responsible Consumption 
and Production. 
The Edwards Product Stewardship Team also evaluates and ensures product  
compliance with chemical disclosure and material content regulations such as  
REACH, RoHS, California Proposition 65, and WEE. This includes evaluation of product 
compliance with regard to specific chemicals or substances of concern, such as DEHP, 
PFOA, BPA, Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) and similar adverse compounds.  
For more details, please see our Environmental, Health and Safety report.45
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Edwards Receives Clearance  
for Hypotension Prediction  
Index Software for Noninvasive  
Acumen IQ Cuff
In June 2021, Edwards received U.S. FDA clearance  
of its Acumen Hypotension Prediction Index (HPI) software with the 
Acumen IQ finger cuff. This is the first noninvasive solution that unlocks 
Acumen HPI software and uses machine learning to alert clinicians of the 
likelihood a patient is trending toward hypotension, or low blood pressure. 
Until now, Acumen HPI software has only been available for patients  
using an invasive arterial line.
“Numerous studies, including our research, have demonstrated an  
association between intraoperative hypotension and increased risk of 
acute kidney injury, myocardial injury and even death,” said Kamal  
Maheshwari, M.D., MPH, anesthesiologist from Cleveland Clinic  
Foundation. “The noninvasive Acumen IQ cuff provides the opportunity  
to reduce hypotension in a broader range of patients, including those who 
do not require an invasive arterial line. The cuff, along with the predictive 
capabilities of Acumen HPI software to proactively manage hypotension, 
will have a meaningful impact on patients.”
In addition to unlocking predictive capabilities, Acumen IQ cuff  
provides access to automatically calculated, beat-to-beat hemodynamic  
parameters including mean arterial pressure and cardiac output. 
“This latest predictive technology demonstrates our commitment to  
patient care and providing clinicians with ‘smart’ monitoring tools that 
allow for better prediction and management,” said Katie Szyman,  
Edwards’ corporate vice president, critical care. 
For more information, please see the related press release and  
product page.
HIGHLIGHT STORY
Annual Performance
Incentivizing Strong Product Design and Innovation
Performance measures for incentive compensation are linked to our Strategic  
Imperatives through the achievement of KODs. These measures are designed to  
create long-term value for all stakeholders and hold executives accountable for  
their individual and Edwards’ performance.
In 2021, there were four Strategic Imperatives from which the KODs were derived.  
We do not disclose our KODs in detail because we believe doing so would cause a meaningful 
competitive disadvantage. However, we provide additional transparency on the structure 
and outcomes of the 2021 Annual Incentive Plan KODs with specific illustrative examples  
of milestones below to indicate the nature and types of milestones included in our KODs.
 1.  Our first imperative was to lead the global expansion of TAVR and accelerate the 
treatment of aortic stenosis. Since 2020, we have achieved milestones on two  
TAVR clinical trials which will lead to expanded indications over time, the EARLY  
TAVR and PROGRESS trials. We have also reached milestones on the advancement  
of our next-gen product portfolio and have strong OUS TAVR growth. 
 2.  Our next imperative was to transform the treatment of mitral and tricuspid valve  
disease. We have completed enrollment of the CLASP IID pivotal trial, achieved clinical  
enrollment milestones for tricuspid therapies and technical milestones advancing 
next-gen mitral and tricuspid therapies
 3.  Our third imperative was to extend our global presence in surgical heart valves  
and critical care. Since then, we have extended our leadership position in Surgical 
Structural Heart through the adoption of premium technologies, developed strong 
global growth in Critical Care and Surgical Structural Heart despite the impact of 
COVID-19 on hospital staffing. We have also carried out advancements of Critical Care 
technologies including hardware, algorithm development, and smart recovery  
technologies.
 4.  Our final imperative was to strengthen capabilities and talent to execute key  
initiatives and fortify culture. Substantial progress has been accomplished on building 
or expanding manufacturing facilities to prepare for future growth and patient needs. 
Additionally, we have reached global supply chain milestones through innovative 
efforts that enabled continuous production of life-saving heart valve therapies and 
critical care technologies.46
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
In December 2021, Edwards received approval from the U.S. FDA for the  
use of the Edwards SAPIEN 3 transcatheter valve with the Alterra adaptive  
prestent (SAPIEN 3 with Alterra) for patients with severe pulmonary regurgitation.
The Edwards SAPIEN 3 Transcatheter Pulmonary Valve (TPV) system combines the proven 
SAPIEN 3 transcatheter heart valve and the Alterra adaptive prestent to expand transcatheter 
therapy options for congenital heart valve disease patients. The Alterra prestent compensates 
for variations in size and morphology of the right ventricular outflow tract to provide a stable 
landing zone for the SAPIEN 3 valve.
“The FDA approval of the SAPIEN 3 with Alterra is great news for patients around the world, 
many of whom have endured numerous surgical procedures to treat their congenital heart 
disease,” said Dr. Evan Zahn, M.D., Director of Guerin Family Congenital Heart Program at  
the Smidt Heart Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, and principal investigator for the  
ALTERRA clinical trial. “The outstanding outcomes achieved by SAPIEN 3 with Alterra will  
expand the range of patients who require pulmonary valve replacement that we can now treat 
with minimally invasive therapy. This will result in significant improvements in quality  
of life and a reduction in the number of surgeries and procedures that a congenital heart  
patient requires over the course of their lifetime.”
While pulmonic heart valve replacements represent a small fraction of the heart valve  
replacements done each year, it is generally required to replace valves in adolescent and adult 
patients suffering from Tetralogy of Fallot or other congenital heart valve defects. “Many 
of these patients endure repeated open-heart surgeries to address heart conditions present 
since birth, which takes a huge toll on their ability to lead normal lives. The SAPIEN 3 with 
Alterra provides a new treatment option that can reduce the number of invasive procedures 
these patients face in their lifetimes,” said Larry Wood, corporate vice president,  
transcatheter aortic valve replacement.
For more information, please see the related press release and product page.
Edwards Receives Approval for SAPIEN 3  
with Alterra Prestent for Transcatheter  
Pulmonic Valve ReplacementHIGHLIGHT STORY
Underlying these Strategic Imperatives are approximately 80  
specific KOD metrics and milestones relating to, among other  
things, research and development, commercial and financial  
milestones in each of the four business units, key initiatives to  
increase patient access to our therapies and specific milestones  
for global supply chain as it relates to launches of products,  
supply, capacity, quality, productivity, service and capabilities.  
Approximately 25 percent of the KODs include a financial  
component.
Stakeholder Collaboration  
Edwards is also dedicated to collaborating with clinicians to  
develop patient-centric innovations for complex surgical  
structural heart procedures that improve long-term care and  
outcomes for patients. For example, in 2021 we launched the  
HARPOON Beating Heart Mitral Valve Repair System, which can  
help transform care for many patients with degenerative mitral  
regurgitation. We believe the demand for surgical structural heart 
therapies is growing worldwide and that our innovation strategy 
will continue to extend our leadership and patient impact.
Product Design & Innovation in a Pandemic  
Our manufacturing operations have continued to respond to  
impacts related to COVID-19, and we have been able to supply  
our technologies around the world. Across the organization,  
we are proactively managing inventory, assessing alternative  
logistics options, and closely monitoring the supply of  
components. In 2021, we continued to advance our portfolio  
of catheter-based solutions, such as SAPIEN 3, which has an  
estimated cost savings of more than $2,000 per patient and 
a significant improvement in quality-adjusted life expectancy 
through the two-year study period. This improvement reflects  
a disciplined approach for advancing the technology, procedural 
techniques, and partnership with regulators.  47
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Workforce
Edwards Lifesciences’ employees drive our work with their passion for helping others.  
The Workforce section of our 2021 Sustainability Report covers all of our business  
operations and contains our management approach and annual performance for the  
following material topics:
 •  Human Capital Management
 •  Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging
 •  Volunteerism & Giving
Human Capital Management
Edwards Lifesciences focuses on initiatives that continuously innovate and improve  
employee recruitment, engagement and retention to support fostering an inclusive  
culture where all employees grow and thrive.
Definition  
Developing strategies for attracting, developing and retaining talent. Edwards Lifesciences 
strives to maintain and enhance a culture reflective of our Credo and Aspirations. We believe 
that fostering a diverse, inclusive culture is critical to our long-term success as we help more 
patients around the world. Our commitment to promoting workplace health and safety 
serves our Aspiration of fostering an inclusive culture where all employees grow and thrive, 
while providing Edwards employees with health resources and safe working conditions.Management Approach  
Edwards Lifesciences unites our employees around a common passion for improving 
the lives of our patients. Our top priority is to execute our work with the utmost  
precision and care because we know that our therapies have the power to impact  
patients’ longevity and quality of life. Edwards is a growing company, and our culture 
is an important factor in attracting and retaining top talent that will continue to  
advance our innovative technologies for the patients we serve.
Diversity is a vital part of our company culture, and foundational to Edwards’ work  
to innovate life-saving therapies for patients. Diverse talent is crucial for driving  
innovation. We foster a company culture that actively values diversity and is inclusive 
of people from a variety of backgrounds and experiences. Please see our Diversity, 
Inclusion and Belonging  section for more details.
Edwards believes our focus on helping patients begins with the well-being of our  
employees. Maintaining a strong and healthy workforce enables us to stay focused on 
our goals and dedicate our energies toward the development of life-saving therapies.
As we continue to grow our global footprint, we work to enhance our talent’s ability 
to think and operate on a global scale. The high expectations of our partners and the 
patients we serve in the midst of a fast-changing world present a challenge as they 
require more agile methodologies and mindsets, and new technological skillsets.  
We aim to foster and recruit talent that can exceed these expectations in fulfilling  
the needs of patients.48
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Governance Map  
The governance map below illustrates our Human Capital Management structure.
People Strategy
As we scale to reach more patients around the world, we have integrated our  
Talent & Organization (T&O) Strategy with our Edwards Strategic Planning process. 
The purpose of our T&O Strategy is to anticipate dynamic global trends related to  
our workforce, develop our talent to meet future organizational needs, and positions  
us to be well-poised for ongoing market success. The T&O Strategy enables us to  
explore external workforce signals, share insights, and identify and build emerging  
capabilities across our organization. The T&O Strategy framework takes a  
comprehensive approach that includes envisioning the future of our work (the  
“what” and “how” we deliver our patient-focused strategy), planning our workforce 
(the “who” joining our community of trusted partners), and designing our workplace 
(the “where” and “when” work gets done). This consistent and scalable approach 
looks across all our business units, regions, and significant functions to align and  
elevate priorities, critical capabilities, and organizational evolutions in line with our 
strategic plan. This integrated approach informs our yearly objectives and fuels  
our talent roadmap across the strategic horizon.Recruiting Top Talent
Attracting, developing, and retaining talent is fundamental to our success. The  
primary goals of our human capital strategy are to attract and maintain a motivated, 
professional workforce and to ensure alignment on our patient-focused innovation 
strategy. To attract and recruit top talent, Edwards leverages our strong culture in  
addition to providing competitive compensation and benefits packages, including   
offering performance-based incentives, stock options, retirement plan options,  
remote work options, paid time off, family leave and health, life and disability  
insurance. Our target is to have annual top talent retention resulting in voluntary  
turnover less than high-performing benchmarks.
Edwards recruits top students from universities across the world to join our team.  
Our opportunities for students include:
 • Internships
 • Edwards Summer Immersion Experience
 • BS/MS Development Programs
 • MBA Development Programs
 • Professional Areas of Development
Employee Engagement Survey
We believe in empowering our employees and providing avenues that enable their  
voices to be heard. We conduct a multilingual global employee survey, called myVoice,  
to gather feedback in a confidential manner. We gain insights on various topics including 
patient focus, diversity, inclusion and belonging, quality, innovation, and engagement.
Edwards partners with a third party to assess how our performance, values and  
behaviors drive engagement. We collect concise and insightful results and put  
them into action to make Edwards an even better place to work. Our survey results  
often exceed external benchmarks, and the insights we uncover are used to take specific 
action, such as tailored leadership development training. Our favorable survey results  
have also been linked to employee retention.Corporate
Governance
Environmental
Health & Safety
Ethics &
Compliance
Product Safety
& QualityFoundationSupply  Chain
Management
Human  Capital 
Managementclick to view49
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Patients First
Edwards’ “Patients First” culture in action serves as a force multiplier enabling  
Edwards to attract, engage and retain the best and brightest. One of our priorities is  
to ensure all employees have exposure to patient stories and patient interactions  
annually to improve engagement and remind our team that working at Edwards means 
making a difference in people’s lives. This target aligns with UN SDG 3: Good Health and 
Well-Being. Our CEO conducts quarterly employee meetings, and always concludes  
with a patient video or testimony. Many of the leaders throughout Edwards include in 
their all-hands meetings a patient video or story, as well. Patient videos are also  
shown in new hire orientations around the globe. For more information on other   
patient engagements, please see the Patient Experience & Voice section of this report.
Training and Leadership Development
Our greatest asset is our employees, and the unique knowledge and skills they provide. 
We host several Professional Development programs designed to provide resources to 
support the growth of our company’s talent, including:
 •  Tuition assistance for job-related continuing education and degree programs  
at higher educational institutions
 •  Edwards University, an online platform, offers our employees a wide variety of 
training, education and other resources, as well as learning partnerships with  
University of California, Irvine; eCornell; MIT; and Mind Tools
 •  Aspire, our global leadership development curriculum, offers skill-based open  
enrollment workshops, including topics such as critical thinking, strategic  
execution, career development strategy, effective conversations, powerful  
speaking, communicating among different personalities, leveraging diversity  
and emotional intelligence
 •  A variety of nomination-based programs, including our new Accelerated  
Development Program, are designed to build leaders for the future by  
offering emerging and senior leaders challenging programming, coaching  
and assessments
 •  Global Talent Management and Learning architects and develops career  
broadening experiences for critical talent populations across Edwards’  
businesses and globallyTalent Development Review (TDR)
Our Human Capital Management (HCM) governance includes a global TDR process  
as well as an HCM dashboard. The purpose of our TDR process is to align our talent  
strategies with business strategy, assess talent against future organizational needs, 
evaluate critical talent populations, and enhance the strength of our succession  
planning. Our HCM dashboard is generated quarterly and provides insights on key  
metrics related to areas such as attraction and growth rates, retention trends, diversity, 
and employee sentiment. Our CEO meets with the Chief Human Resources Officer and 
Corporate Vice President of each business unit, function and region to conduct a full  
annual review of their respective organizations’ talent and talent needs for Edwards  
to pursue its life-saving work and patient-focused strategy.
Active and Expanding Mentoring Programs
Mentors can help employees identify personal and professional goals, access resources  
and reach individual potential. We leverage various mentoring approaches and programs 
across Edwards to build internal talent, share knowledge and increase employee  
engagement and satisfaction. In tracking our mentoring initiatives over the years,  
we found a strong correlation between mentorship participation and employee  
retention. Flash mentoring is also being utilized to drive development through less  
formal, more rapid mentoring connections.
Total Well-being at Edwards
Edwards believes that better health leads to better performance, and the company  
ensures that we regularly sponsor wellness initiatives for employees. Edwards also  
offers a competitive employee benefits package that includes health and welfare  
insurance, health savings accounts and on-site programs.
Recognizing that mental well-being is as important as physical health, Edwards  
is dedicated to helping our global employees focus on their mental well-being.  
In October 2021, in alignment with World Mental Health Day, we launched Mind+,  
which is designed to elevate employee mindsets on mental well-being by helping  
to reduce the stigma surrounding mental health and creating awareness regarding  
the tools and resources Edwards has available to support them.   
In early 2022, we re-branded Total Wellness to Total Well-being, which is designed  
to create a more holistic and unified approach to addressing the whole person. We  
encourage employees to leverage their comprehensive benefits package and the  
lifestyle programs and resources offered by Edwards as tools to support all aspects  
of their well-being.  50
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Edwards’ pillars for total well-being were updated in 2022: Prevention, Nutrition,  
Physical Activity, Mind+, Financial Fitness, and Community Service. The education  
pillar, which was critical when the wellness program launched to create more  
understanding and awareness, was removed as education now flows through all  
of the well-being pillars. The Mind+ pillar was added to reinforce the importance  
of mental well-being.
We offer many programs to support our team members within each pillar. Please see  
our 2022 Total Wellness Lookbook for some of our offerings. All benefits and wellness 
programs are reviewed annually, and recommendations made to our Administrative  
and Investment Committee for their review and approval.
We aim to offer a high performing, cost-effective healthcare program that encourages 
a healthy workforce. We hope to move employees from passively consuming health care  
services to owning their health and wellness. We participate in custom industry surveys 
to benchmark our programs to ensure these programs remain competitive. In addition, 
each region prioritizes and reviews their risk factors and develops programs to address 
their specific health population needs.
Wellness and Charity
Physical activity has been proven to enhance brain function, improve sleep, help  
protect against certain cancers and strengthen heart health. To help employees stay  
in motion, we offer several programs including our Global Movement Challenge,  
featured in our highlight story in this section. As part of this program, Edwards offers 
opportunities for employees to support charity as they work toward their movement 
goals. Those who reach the top two tiers within our global movement challenge will  
be entered into a raffle where two winners have the opportunity to direct a charitable  
contribution to a charity of their choice on behalf of the Edwards Foundation. 
Workplace Health & Safety
At Edwards, we are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all of  
our employees, visitors and guests at our facilities. We believe that a safe and healthy 
workplace not only helps prevent injuries, but it also helps us recruit, retain and  
engage talented employees while driving employee satisfaction. To achieve a safe  and healthy workplace, we believe in establishing robust EHS management systems, 
implementing strong EHS governance and driving a culture of ownership and  
accountability. Please see our supplemental Environment Health & Safety (EHS)  
report for more information.  
Our safety record is in the top quartile of performance for our industry. Our two  
safety targets are: 1) by 2025, achieve a 35 percent reduction in injury rates and 2) all 
manufacturing facilities achieve certification against the internationally recognized  
ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and ISO 45001 Occupational Health  
& Safety Management System standards by 2023. New manufacturing plants are  
given three years from date of start-up to achieve certification. These targets align  
with UN SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth.
Edwards focuses on workplace design, early intervention and overall prevention  
of injuries and illnesses. We track and report injury rates and consistently perform  
favorably when compared with our industry benchmarks. We strive to ensure  
employees who are injured on the job receive appropriate medical care to help them  
recover and return to work in a healthy and productive manner. For example, while  
all of our locations provide access to off‐site medical clinics, our larger locations  
also employ on‐site nurses and medical professionals to assist in both work and  
non-work-related injury and personal health needs. Edwards has not experienced  
a work-related fatality by either full-time employees, temporary hires or on-site  
contractors since we began operating as an independent business in 2000. Please  
see our annual EHS Report for more detailed occupational injury and illness  
prevention strategies and the ergonomics program.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, there was heightened focus on keeping employees 
safe and healthy. To accomplish this, Edwards focused on a multi-layered effort,  
involving improved ventilation and sanitation in Edwards’ facilities, masking  
requirements indoors, promotion of vaccination and onsite COVID-19 vaccination  
clinics, timely case management and contact tracing, and heightened efforts to  
educate employees. Edwards’ employees had far higher vaccination rates than their 
surrounding communities, exceeding 90 percent in much of the globe. 51
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
HIGHLIGHT STORY
Employee Programs Prioritize  
Staying Fit – Mentally and Physically
Now more than ever, emphasis on mental and physical well-being is critical  
to a healthy workforce. Our mental well-being is as important as physical health; 
in fact, the two are interconnected. Mental well-being includes emotional,  
psychological, and social well-being, and it affects how employees think, feel,  
and respond to life’s stressors.
We recently launched two pivotal programs at Edwards to inspire and support  
our teams to nourish their mind and bodies.
Mind+ Leader Video Series
The Mind+ Leader video series features Edwards Lifesciences senior leaders in a 
casual and open conversation with Dr. Tista Ghosh, Vice President of Employee 
Health, sharing unique advice for elevating their mindsets and those of their teams. These leaders openly share real examples in their lives of how they think  
about mental well-being, tactics to nurture it, times they grappled with stress  
or well-being and how they recommend focusing on their own, and colleagues’  
mental health. 
Videos are shared regularly with employees, along with other educational  
resources available to support their mental health.
Global Movement Challenge
A partnership with Walkingspree has  
made staying active easy and engaging  
for Edwards employees as part of our  
Global Movement Challenge.  
Walkingspree is a digital app that does  
the heavy lifting for employees who can  
set steps goals, track steps, log activity, 
challenge co-workers and earn prizes.
Employees simply engage in physical  
activity and the Walkingspree app  
automatically syncs from their device. 
Points are earned for different activities 
and achieving program milestones,  
all incentives for staying active. The  
camaraderie and competitive fun  
of tracking results against co-workers  
has had a ripple effect, with close to  
80 percent of participating employees  
averaging more than 7,000 steps per day, 
better than the U.S. national average.
52
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Performance  
COVID-19 Pandemic Response
As we entered the second year of the COVID-19 pandemic, Edwards’ team continued to 
display its flexibility and resilience. Our resilient global supply chain team continued to 
come to work in-person at our manufacturing facilities around the world, ensuring that we 
could continue to uphold our companies’ mission and bring our most important lifesaving 
technologies to patients in need. Our committed field teams continued to develop new 
ways to support physicians, and finally our engineers never ceased in their innovation of 
our array of technologies. 
In 2021, Edwards continued to support our global employees in the face of the uncertainty 
of the ongoing pandemic. We have continued to do so through: 
 •  Specific COVID-19 communication strategies for people leaders and employees,  
which were communicated on a regular basis
 •  A dedicated Edwards COVID-19 Global Information Website containing global  
and regional resources for all employees, such as news updates, internal policies  
and key announcements, guidebooks, videos, IT help resources, volunteer  
opportunities information, and HR resources
 •  A partnership with Providence to provide a facility, staff and funding to operate  
a COVID-19 vaccination clinic at the Edwards headquarters campus over several  
months, giving approximately 9,000 vaccine doses for free – and the promise  
of more as the effort turned mobile in local communities throughout Orange  
County, Calif.
Remote Work During the Pandemic
Throughout the global pandemic in 2020, 2021 and into 2022, Edwards has provided  
continuing opportunities for employees to have flexible and, where needed and possible,  
remote work schedule options. While we continue to focus on ensuring collaboration to  
support our ability to serve patients worldwide,  we are pleased to have employees working 
on site at our facilities around the world.  We have also maintained flexibility in response  
to local conditions and regulations to promote the health and safety of our employees.  
Employee Engagement Survey and Charitable Activity
Eighty two percent of professional employees who responded to our 2021 employee  
engagement survey reported participating in charitable activities within the past 12 
months. These results support our target to drive Edwards’ aspiration of 100 percent global 
employee participation in charitable activity with participation goals of 100 percent for  
the SLT and an increase in global participation as measured by the employee engagement survey. Not only are most of our employees having a positive impact on our community, 
but we have also detected a relationship between charitable activity participation and 
how our employees perceive working at Edwards. Those who indicated they participated 
in charitable activities have significantly higher engagement results than those that did 
not participate. In addition to being more engaged, those that participated in charitable 
activities also reported a higher sense of patient focus, culture and belonging. These results 
support our target to have a highly engaged workforce that exceeds industry, region and 
high performing benchmarks for employee engagement. This target aligns with UN SDG 8: 
Decent Work and Economic Growth.
Edwards is dedicated to the communities that matter most to employees and encourages 
employees to participate in charitable events and take advantage of our company match-
ing donation program to increase charitable giving. For more information, please see our 
Volunteerism & Giving section.
Patients First
In 2021, we shared patient stories and interactions with the vast majority of our employees 
through virtual meetings, as well as at Edwards’ regional headquarters and manufacturing 
facilities as in-person gatherings were resumed. To estimate the number of employees 
who experienced a patient story, we rely on the leaders of each regional office and plant to 
assess the types of patient exposure methods used at their respective sites. We estimate 
that 97 percent of our global employees were able to experience at least one patient story 
in 2021, and believe the majority had the opportunity to interact with multiple stories or 
patient speakers during the year. This target aligns to UN SDG 3: Good Health & Well-Being. 
In our 2021 employee survey, 90 percent of employees agreed that at Edwards, we consider 
what is important to patients when making decisions. Below are some examples of our 
2021 “patients first” activities:
 •  The annual meetings for field personnel are mandatory and patient stories  
and/or in-person patient testimonials are a content item at each
 •  During regional all-employee meetings, employees engage with patients  
through patient videos and panels featuring physicians and local  
Edwards representatives discussing patient care
 •  Professionals and Front Line Professionals at our regional offices and  
manufacturing facilities are provided time away from their roles to attend  
the employee meetings where patient stories are always featured
 •  Our online platforms including NewHeartValve.com and ReachForTheHeart.com  
include patient stories
 •  Dedicated internal website, Dose of Edwards Goodness, sharing uplifting stories  
from Edwards colleagues and patients around the world to all employees53
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Training and Leadership Development Initiatives
In 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic all training and development continued as live  
virtual formats across the globe. New skills were required for leaders and employees in 
terms of new remote working environments. In 2021, we incorporated hybrid working  
environments and continued to enable training to go to the employees rather than have 
the employees come to the training. Our virtual training methodologies removed capacity 
and time zone constraints. We expanded upon existing programs, including:
 •  Global individualized coaching
 •  Remote worker training series
 •  Exploring leadership for individual contributors
 •  Webinars and targeted skills in live online development sessions
These programs continue to have a positive business impact. For example, through our  
TDP and University Engineering programs in 2021, 50 percent of eligible interns were  
hired for full-time positions with a 95 percent offer acceptance rate. We have found that 
these employees are more than twice as likely to become designated as top talent as  
those who did not intern. Individuals hired through the TDP and University Engineering 
programs have an 83 percent combined retention rate.
Also in 2021, we launched our newest global nomination-based development program,  
the Accelerated Development Program, which offers a unique opportunity to accelerate  
select employees’ leadership capabilities through rich and targeted development and  
executive support. The program also includes a charitable leadership element that is  
focused on linking their future leadership behaviors with our patient-focused culture  
and innovation business strategy.
Mentoring Programs
In 2021, we continued to expand our mentoring opportunities beyond the traditional  
programs, offering flash, speed and circles mentoring.  These additional modes of  
mentoring allow employees to receive just-in-time and/or specific development  
without having to be in a formal program. Flash mentoring provides a fast and flexible  
option for one-time mentoring discussions. Speed mentoring is delivered as part of  
large team events, where participants are exposed to many different mentors in quick  
succession. Circles mentoring is coordinated in a small group cohort format over time  
that creates a support system for skill and leadership development and ideal for scaling 
across employee populations.  We have implemented Circles programs in University  
Relations and in our women’s ERG, Edwards Network of Women.Total Well-being
Every year, Edwards becomes stronger in our mission to improve health – starting with  
our workforce. In 2015 and 2016, 93 percent of U.S. Edwards employees participated in free 
biometrics screenings. Participation in this program increased to 94 percent for 2017/2018 
and has remained steady at that participation rate for 2018/2019 and 2019/2020.  In order 
to mitigate additional burden on the healthcare system during the pandemic, Edwards 
pivoted our biometric screening program for 2020/2021 to include only a voluntary Health 
Risk Assessment. The biometric screening program resumed as normal for 2021/2022.  
Please note that our benefit plan year runs from July through June.
U.S. Well-being Numbers for 2020-2021
We believe the well-being of our employees has a direct correlation with the success  
of our company.  Each of our seven global manufacturing locations provide benefits  
associated with occupational health commensurate to their worker population, culture, 
and availability of such programs in their local communities. In 2021, our occupational 
health staff hosted numerous COVID-19 and flu shot clinics across our global locations  
to ensure our employees had convenient access to vaccinations. In addition, employee 
health benefits include weight-loss coaching, lactation consulting, and smoking cessation  
programs, among others.  At some of our locations we provide on‐site fitness centers,  
basketball courts, bicycle facilities and large fields for soccer and other outdoor activities.
Workplace Safety
We continue to invest in the development of tools, systems and our EHS professionals to 
help us achieve our EHS objectives. Our commitment to preventing injury and illness and 
promoting well-being extends to both manufacturing and non-manufacturing operations 
and includes all employees, as well as contractors and visitors present at our facilities. In 
2021, Edwards’ recordable incident rate was 0.68 and our lost time incident rate was 0.28, 
continuing an overall declining trend in work-related injuries over the course of the last 
several years. U.S. Employee Participation in Biometric Screenings194%
U.S. Employees Enrolled in an Edwards-Sponsored Medical Plan 90%
Health Costs Per Employee Per Year (PEPY) 2.6%
1The 2020-21 program was a voluntary HRA, so the reported number is the same as 2019.54
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Cumulative trauma illnesses represent 51 percent of Edwards’ work-related injuries and 
illnesses. The majority of our cumulative trauma illnesses come from our valve network 
manufacturing locations, where manual sewing of tissue valves introduces the ergonomic 
risk factors of repetition, force, and sustained postures. As such, we pursue aggressive 
strategies in our manufacturing plants and engineering departments that aim to address 
ergonomic risks with appropriate prevention and control measures throughout the design 
and manufacturing process. In 2021, 164 new ergonomic workstations were installed at our 
Irvine, Calif., manufacturing plant. The new workstations include adjustable microscopes 
and chairs to adjust posture-related injury risks from valve sewing. Please see our 2021 EHS 
Report for more information. 
Global Lost Time Injury Rate for 2011-2021 
Edwards defines a recordable injury as any work-related injury requiring treatment beyond first aid, as defined 
in the U.S. OSHA recordkeeping standard 29 CFR 1904. For corporate reporting purposes, this definition is  
applied at all Edwards locations, regardless of local agency reporting guidelines. Edwards defines a lost-time 
case as any work-related injury that results in a full day or more away from work, in accordance with the U.S. 
OSHA recordkeeping standard 29 CFR 1904.
ISO Certification
As of 2021, six of our seven manufacturing sites are certified to ISO 14001, with our  
newest manufacturing plant in Ireland expected to achieve certification in 2023. In  
addition, our European Field and Commercial Region also holds ISO 14001 certification.   
Our manufacturing plants are now working toward achieving ISO 45001 certification.   
Currently, four of our seven manufacturing sites are certified, with our Irvine plant  
recently achieving certification in 2021. The remaining three sites are on schedule  
to become certified on time with our internal deadlines.2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Global Lost Time Injury Rate Over Time (Days away from work cases per 100 employees)
0.20 0.62 0.42 0.32 0.36 0.35 0.51 0.49 0.33 0.32 0.28
Global Recordable Case (Injury) Rate Over Time (Cases per 100 employees)
0.78 1.83 1.42 1.28 1.13 1.23 0.99 1.04 0.79 0.63 0.68
External awards and recognition received for 2021:
 •  Most Sustainable Companies (Barron’s)
 •  Management Top 250 (Wall Street Journal)
 •  America’s Most Responsible Companies (Newsweek)
 •  America’s Most Just Companies “JUST 100” (JUST Capital/Forbes magazine)
 •  Top 100 Companies Supporting Healthy Families and Communities  
(JUST Capital)
 •  World’s Most Ethical Company (Ethisphere)
 •  America’s Best Large Employers (Forbes magazine)
 •  Best Employers for New Graduates (Forbes magazine)
 •  World’s Top Female-Friendly Companies (Forbes magazine)
 •  Trendsetter in Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability  
(CPA Zicklin Index)55
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging
Edwards Lifesciences’ diversity, inclusion, and belonging initiatives uplift  
our employees and customers, while supporting our aspiration of fostering  
an inclusive culture where all employees grow and thrive.
Definition  
Promoting diversity in Edwards’ leadership, employee population, and  
suppliers by fostering an inclusive culture; evaluating and providing fair pay  
and equal opportunity for all employees regardless of background.
Management Approach
At Edwards, our Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging (DIB) mission is to ensure  
that we foster a culture that embraces diversity through inclusion and belonging.  
Our goal is to improve patient care and business results through the attraction,  
development and retention of great talent.  Our culture of inclusion and belonging, 
along with the retention of great talent, also enhances our brand and reputation,  
and supports overall employee engagement.
Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Programs
Fostering a diverse, inclusive culture where all of our employees can grow and  
thrive is central to who we are as an organization. We are deeply committed to  
passionate employee engagement that strengthens our communities. Edwards’  
vision is to foster a culture that actively and consistently values diversity. We aim  
to become a leading workplace for diversity and inclusion. 
We consider diversity critical to our mission of transforming patient care through  
medical breakthroughs. At Edwards, we understand that there is true value in diversity 
of thought. Companies with diverse talent have a wider range of perspectives, which 
can foster a stronger pool of ideas, creativity and innovation. Embracing a diverse 
workforce helps drive Edwards’ commitment to innovation and allows our company  to be more adaptable in the evolving business environment. We have created a  
culture that understands the strength of diversity, the power that comes from  
an inclusive environment and the impact that we can have on so many patients  
if we listen to the ideas and diverse thinking of those around us. 
In 2019, Edwards signed the CEO Action Pledge for Diversity and Inclusion.  
This pledge demonstrates our commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion 
within our organization and recognizing that change starts at the executive level.
Every year, we expand our diversity and inclusion through programs focused on  
attracting, engaging and developing diverse talent. Sample activities include:
 •  Career fairs for engaging traditionally underrepresented groups at conferences 
and university chapters (e.g., National Society of Black Engineers and the  
Society of Women Engineers)
 •  Active engagement with MedTech Color and MedTechWomen, and in the  
MedTech and BioTech Veterans Program, which connects transitioning military 
professionals with careers in lifesciences companies
 •  Project Search partnership program provides internship opportunities for  
young adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities to foster career  
development and work experience with a goal of transitioning into permanent 
employment
 •  Panel discussions about managing career opportunities at Edwards  
featuring guests from our executive or senior leadership teams
 •  Global individualized coaching 
 •  Leadership development classes, in-person and virtual
 •  Hospital observation opportunities to see our products in clinical use
 •  Monthly networking events
 •  Variety of remote work opportunities
 •  Employee listening sessions
 •  Virtual interview, assessment, and on-boarding capabilities56
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Employee Resource Group  Description
 Informs, involves and inspires all employees on the value of gender diversity and inclusion to the  
Edwards culture, where employees grow and thrive.
 Fosters a community that attracts and enables Edwards’ employees across cultures to be  
connected and empowered and reach their full potential. This ERG includes our African Heritage  
Forum (AHF), Asian Society for Inclusion and Awareness (ASIA), Hispanic Organization for Leadership  
and Advancement (HOLA), and Middle Eastern Employee Resource Group (MEERG) chapters.
  Fosters a community of veterans and veteran-minded employees at Edwards to enhance  
employee engagement, drive veterans’ talent strategy and serve the veterans community.
 Supports issues around work/life integration, parenting, elder care and family caregiving.  
Chapters include Fertility, Adoption, and Fostering HOPE; Working Parents; and NexGen  
(early career professionals).
 Creates a community of LGBTQ+ members and allies that fosters employee engagement and  
diversity of thought within Edwards through education, support, visibility and advocacy; together,  
striving to cultivate an environment of acceptance and respect for all employees.
Supports employees directly and indirectly affected by disabilities, identify ways to recruit and employ  
individuals affected by disabilities.Network of
Women (E.NOW)Engaging Employees in Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERG) provide resources and support to Edwards employees.  
The four focus points of the ERG program are professional development, networking and 
mentoring; education and awareness; recruiting; and community outreach. Our employees 
are welcome and encouraged to participate in ERGs that celebrate and advance diversity,  
inclusion and belonging. These include:ERGs improve employees’ experiences – research has shown that ERG and mentor  
program participants are more likely to perceive Edwards positively. The ERGs also  
provide avenues for Edwards employees to engage with communities, particularly 
groups within communities with whom we might not have otherwise connected.  
Overall, ERGs deepen our understanding of different cultures, people and experiences. 
They allow us to support and empower employees to expand their networks and  
accelerate their own growth and development.57
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Performance  
Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Programs
In 2021, DIB bolstered its program with additional resources and a new DIB leadership  
role, a Vice President of Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging, to drive strategy throughout  
the organization. This role is responsible for the vision, leadership, and strategic planning 
of initiatives that promote DIB as essential elements of our culture and Credo. The Vice 
President is also a member of our Sustainability Council, which is described more in depth 
in the Corporate Governance section of the report. 
This year we have continued to build upon our strong foundation and focus on longer-  
term DIB strategy development and actions. In 2021 we created an internal online  
Community of Support offering tools and resources designed to provide support for  
employees to engage in meaningful discussions. Edwards recognizes the importance  
of inclusion and understanding diverse perspectives and this Community offers  
resources and materials to help employees learn tactics and take action to build an  
even more inclusive culture at Edwards. 
In 2021 , we further expanded the ERG network within the six ERG categories:  
Multi-Cultural, Friends of Veterans, Generations, Edwards Network of Women, Edwards 
Rainbow Alliance and Enable. Generations chapters now include Boomers; Caregivers;  
Fertility, Adoption, and Fostering HOPE; NexGen (early career professionals); Working  
Parents and Let’s Talk (mental wellbeing). We now have 13 ERGs and 39 chapters with  
established budgets and enhanced tools and resources. Each month, our ERGs are the  
driving force behind several recognized commemorative month activities, such as  
Black History Month, AAPI Month, Women’s History Month, Pride Month and Autism  
Acceptance Month. These are opportunities to celebrate the cultures, identities and  
backgrounds of employees and patients. Building awareness and promoting initiatives 
across a variety of affinity groups, our ERGs held more than 125 global events in 2021. 
New in 2021, ERGs power our Connection Groups, which provide support and  
deepening our work in the community and include:
 •  In support of Attention Deficient Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Autism  
Spectrum Disorder (ASD), monthly connections providing support and opportunity  
to share, listen and learn
 •  Raising Rainbows, a support group focused on parents of those who are members  
of the LGBTQ+ community
 •  Fertility, Adoption and Fostering HOPE, monthly connections for a time of sharing  
and support with others who have similar journeysPreventing Unconscious Bias
Unconscious bias refers to the underlying beliefs, perceptions and assumptions we  
develop based on our past experiences and can frame the way we look at the world.  
As Edwards advances our culture of inclusion, it is important we educate employees 
around the identification and adjustment of unconscious biases in the workplace. 
Achieving Edwards’ patient-focused innovation strategy requires an inclusive  
culture where our employees can bring their best ideas to solve challenges and achieve 
business goals. The role of our leaders is to understand the power of leveraging diversity 
of thought within teams to encourage innovation to emerge at every level of the  
company.
 •  Our Cultivate Curiosity: Unconscious Bias e-learning module gives employees  
flexibility in modality and location. Objectives of the course include:
 •  Identify Bias: Understand the neuroscience behind bias, build awareness  
and recognize the impact of bias on behavior and decision-making
 •  Choose Courage: Increase cultural competency skills to work effectively across  
similarities and differences
 •  Cultivate Curiosity: Develop the skillset of curiosity and empathy to build  
connections, mitigate bias and accelerate performance and that of others
Edwards’ Commitment to Employees and Fair and Equitable Pay
Edwards tracks remuneration patterns among our employees worldwide, and we  
continually look for ways to ensure fair and equitable pay practices. Our ELT and Board 
recognize that fair and equitable pay is integral to achieving our goal of being a preferred 
employer. Please review Edwards’ Commitment to Fair and Equitable Pay policy for 
information on our approach, governance and the Global Career Framework. We have 
taken steps toward our efforts on pay equity in the U.S. and developed plans that detail 
our strategy for working toward pay equity in our global locations.58
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
We continue to expand our ERG programs, initiatives and resources, particularly in 
alignment with our diversity and inclusion goals. We aim to achieve year-over-year 
positive trends globally of women in leadership positions, and to achieve year-over  
year positive trends in ethnically diverse talent in leadership positions in the U.S.  
As of 2021, the E.NOW Amplify Global Development program has had nearly 800  
global participants. The Amplify program is a learning journey focusing on the habits 
and behaviors that help women grow their careers. Through self-driven learning,  
targeted topics and peer mentoring, participants clarify their vision, plan intentional 
actions and widen their influence, impact, and network.
During the year, we also refined and expanded our ENOW mentoring program to include 
peer-to-peer Mentoring Circles. These are small peer groups that meet monthly to 
share experiences, create an environment for growth and empowerment, keep each 
other accountable and offer support and coaching for one another. Each circle has one 
to two moderators and six to eight participants with a six-month commitment. In 2021, 
we had 13 circles piloted in the U.S with approximately 130 participants. In 2022, we are 
expanding this program to all our global ENOW regions.
Edwards’ Social Impact Investment Fund
In 2021, Edwards announced the Social Impact Investment fund, to expand access 
to capital in underserved communities. The $100 million fund aims to advance racial 
equity through economic development, especially in predominantly Black and un-
derserved communities in the U.S. Edwards committed to a range of investments to 
provide additional capital for targeted programs, economic initiatives and community 
development projects. For example, in October 2021, $25 million was allocated to the 
Providing Real Opportunities for Progress by Edwards Lifesciences (PROPEL) Fund,  
a New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) equity fund focused on advancing progress towards 
racial equity by closing the health, wealth, and opportunity gaps in communities of 
color. To read more about the Social Impact Investment Fund, please see the  
press release and an interview with Scott Ullem, CFO.
Edwards’ Workforce Representation
Edwards hires top talent, offers employee wellbeing and engagement and fosters a 
diverse and inclusive culture to help employees deliver their best. We are proud that 
our talented and passionate workforce exceeds industry, region and high performing 
benchmarks for employee engagement. More in-depth information on our workforce 
can be found in our 2021 EEO-1 statement. n	Female
n Male 41%
59%
 U.S. Employees by Ethnicity in 2021*
n White - 35.8%   
n	Asian - 34.9%
n Hispanic - 22.6%    
n Black/African American - 2.3%
n Two or more races - 2.2%
n	Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander - .7%
n American Indian/Alaskan Native - .4% 
n Not Specified - 1% Global Employees by Type in 2021 
n	Professional 
n Hourly40%
60%Global Employees by Gender in 2021
*In 2021, we included ethnicity data for Puerto Rico along with the rest of the United States.59
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Women’s Ranks in Leadership Globally*
As part of our CEO’s performance management objectives, we measure the number  
of female people leaders that are at the level of Sr. Manager and above with the target of 
year-over-year positive trending globally of women in leadership positions. We monitor 
this specific population because these roles have strong influence over the culture and  
future success at Edwards. Our people leaders at Sr. Manager and above are responsible for 
leading and making decisions regarding our talent. These people leaders impact company 
culture through their leadership responsibilities related to hiring, engagement and  
development of our employees. We consistently monitor our performance on this metric  
to ensure that we have the diverse perspectives necessary among our leadership ranks to 
fuel our innovation, solve patients’ unmet healthcare needs, and continue to stay agile in  
a rapidly evolving industry. 
Percent of Women in Leadership  
*Senior manager and above female people leaders globally. Note the percentage change also reflects  
a year-over-year growing employee population.
In addition, we annually benchmark our performance utilizing select McKinsey data sets. 
While we include the proportion of female people managers in our CEO’s performance  
objectives, the McKinsey report includes all women in management (including those  
who do not manage people). For 2021, our comparable female leadership population  
was equal to or exceeded the benchmark average in four of five levels when compared  
to the McKinsey Women in the Workplace Report 2021.
Preventing Unconscious Bias
As of 2019, 100 percent of ELT, SLT and their Director and above direct reports completed 
the Unconscious Bias Training. Our current target states: by 2022, all global employees  
will have completed unconscious bias training, and new hires complete the training within 
six months of employment. At the end of 2021,100 percent of Associate Managers and 
above were trained, and we are on track to achieve this goal in 2022.2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
34.3% 33.7% 33.1% 31.8% 30.9%HIGHLIGHT STORY
Creating Community 
and Encouraging  
Authenticity
Edwards aspires to be a global leader dedicated   
to fostering an inclusive culture where all  
employees grow and thrive. Our Employee  
Resource Groups (ERGs) bring employees with 
common interests together and play a central role in advancing Diversity,  
Inclusion & Belonging (DIB). These groups typically represent a marginalized  
community and support our workforce with a sense of belonging.
Enable ERG - Autism Spectrum Disorder and  
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder  
The Edwards Enable ERG celebrated Autism Awareness Month in a profound way, 
hosting an education and awareness event featuring guest speaker, Temple  
Grandin. Diagnosed with autism in 1950, she is a renowned professor, autism  
activist, and author of The Autistic Brain, among other books.  
This flagship event was co-hosted with another ERG, Edwards Network of  
Women. Grandin’s message – those on the autism spectrum are valuable  
contributors to society and the working world – was inspiring for all. Parents can 
teach their autistic child at various ages to develop important skills for life and 
work. The event had the largest online attendance of all Edwards ERG programs  
and was recorded for future viewing by all global employees. 
Our Enable ERG provides education and support for employees directly and  
 indirectly affected by disabilities, including Autism Spectrum Disorder and  
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Enable strives to identify ways to recruit 
and employ individuals with disabilities and focuses on ways to contribute to the 
company and community-at-large. In 2021, Enable’s partnership with Project 
Search helped to place several employees with disabilities in meaningful careers  
at Edwards. 
60
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Fertility, Adoption & Fostering HOPE (FAFH)
“The road to parenthood can be a rollercoaster with many ups and downs …  
the journey can be such an isolating experience, and even those with the best of  
intentions, can’t relate. But having the support of those who have been in your  
shoes is like a warm blanket wrapped around you to keep you warm in your coldest 
moments,” one FAFH member shared.
FAFH connects and supports those whose lives have been touched by fertility,  
adoption and/or fostering.  Not only do they share their own personal journeys  
Edwards launched a 20-day ally challenge in support of Pride month to  
deepen employees allyship and understanding of LGBTQ+ communities.  
Employee teams took on daily micro-challenges, each about 10 minutes, 
which underscored LGBTQ+ equity and identity. There were videos, coming  
out stories, pronoun education, insights on LGBTQ+ laws, a day to wear pride 
and more. Employees were encouraged to share reflections after each  
challenge, with many responses including messages of inspiration and insight.of building their families; the group also provides resources, education and  
awareness, and guest speakers, and the group participates in community events  
to give back to fertility, adoption and foster organizations. 
Recently, guest speakers from Holt International shared how to meet the needs  
of vulnerable children, barriers to attachment, intercountry adoption perspectives  
and insights from an adoptee.
Rainbow Alliance / Raising Rainbows
The mission of the Edwards Rainbow Alliance  is to create a community  
of LGBTQ+ members and their allies that fosters employee engagement and  
diversity of thought through education, support, visibility, and advocacy. 
Within this resource group is a unique body of support, Raising Rainbows,  
dedicated to parents and others whose loved ones are either young adult  
members of the LGBTQ+ community or whose children are exploring their  
sexuality or gender. The purpose is to offer encouragement and empathy to  
one another so that employees can bring their best selves home to the ones  
they love. 
The monthly meetings include informal sharing and, frequently, guest  
speakers from the community who can offer education and advice for those  
navigating a new or challenging chapter in their family’s story. In early 2022, 
LGBTQ Center OC shared tips and resources to help our employees support  
their young loved ones on their journeys.  
Allyship for Pride
Allyship (noun) – efforts by a group to advocate for the interests of  
marginalized groups in society. HIGHLIGHT STORIES
61
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Volunteerism & Giving
Edwards Lifesciences’ work to encourage employee charitable activity and giving  
supports our culture and aspiration of passionate engagement that strengthens  
our communities.
Definition  
Dedicating time, talent and resources to communities where Edwards’ employees live  
and work and supporting community health and well-being. Our charitable activities  
and giving efforts focus on impacting underserved structural heart and critically ill patients 
through our Every Heartbeat Matters initiative which increases access to healthcare via 
humanitarian care, as well as strengthens the communities where we live and work.
Management Approach  
Our commitment to charitable giving and participation in philanthropic causes is  
one of the defining elements of Edwards Lifesciences’ culture. We believe our work  
can inspire hope and contribute to better lives for our patients, employees and  
communities. Many of our employees feel personally connected to our philanthropy  
and identify this commitment as a key reason why they are proud to work at Edwards.
Philanthropy at Edwards Lifesciences
At Edwards, we champion important health-related and community causes to  
improve the lives of underserved patients and strengthen communities. Through our 
Global Corporate Giving,  Edwards Lifesciences Foundation supports advancements in 
knowledge and improvements in quality of life. We leverage our expertise in structural 
heart disease and critical care monitoring to elevate the impact of our philanthropic  
efforts. Some examples of initiatives include grants from the Edwards Lifesciences  
Foundation, passionate employee charitable activity, donation of our medical  
innovations, corporate donations and employee gift matching from our Foundation.  
We also sponsor several employee matching gift programs including dollar-for-dollar 
match programs, an additional match for employees serving in leadership positions  
with non-profits, and an match for our United Way Giving Campaign. The purpose  
and goals of our philanthropy include:  •  Improve the lives of underserved patients by increasing access to  
healthcare and our donated technologies
 •  Execute our Every Heartbeat Matters philanthropic initiative with a target  
to improve the lives of 2.5 million additional underserved structural heart  
and critical care patients by the end of 2025
 • Inspire passionate employee engagement in charitable activity
 • Strengthen the communities where our employees live and work
 • Live by the principles of Edwards Lifesciences’ Credo
Edward continues to make serving our local communities a top priority of our giving  
efforts. At our offices around the world, we open our facilities to host programs,  
fundraisers and meetings for local non-profit organizations, such as United Way  
and American Heart Association. We also provide externships for members of local  
organizations such as Girls Inc. and Achievement Institute of Scientific Studies and  
regularly bring students onto our campuses to tour and learn about what it means to 
work in medical technology and understand the paths our employees took to get  
where they are today.
Our foundation and philanthropy work to navigate international granting dynamics, 
laws and regulations, and maintain compliance with reporting requirements related  
to healthcare professionals.
Employee Charitable Activity and Giving
Our employees embody Edwards’ focus on improving lives and our communities.  
The authentic commitment to giving and charitable activity spans from leadership 
across all employee populations, cultivating a strong, employee-led culture of  
helping others. 
Edwards’ commitment to this culture is shown by providing the infrastructure for  
employees to feel supported and encouraged to participate in charitable activities.  
We provide monthly opportunities for participation in charitable activities during  
their workday and encourage employees to give a few hours of Edwards time a  
few times a year. 62
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Our more than 25 global Strengthen Our Community committees are cross-  
functional groups of passionate employees dedicated to living Edwards’ Credo  
of “creating a community unified in its mission to improve the quality of life  
around the world.” These committees organize our global volunteerism efforts, 
connecting Edwards’ volunteers with organizations that are addressing community 
needs, often funded by the Edwards Foundation. Each committee is empowered to  
give their time and talents according to both local community needs and the  
interest of employees in their region. Notably, Edwards provides platforms, tools 
and resources for our employees to find a way to give back that is meaningful  
and relevant to them. 
Edwards’ culture of giving also comes to life through our ERGs, organizations  
that lead communities of employees from similar backgrounds or interest areas. 
Please find more information about our ERGs in our Human Capital Management  
section of this report.
Governance Map  
The governance map below outlines the Foundation’s governance structure.
Corporate
Governance
Environmental
Health & Safety
Ethics &
Compliance
Product Safety
& QualityFoundationSupply  Chain
Management
Human Capital 
Management
click to viewAnnual Performance  
During 2021, our employees have continued to show up and give more. Amid  
unprecedented challenges for underserved patients and communities, the Edwards  
Foundation provided $21 million to charitable causes around the world, including:
 •  Approximately $8.5 million in donated Edwards technologies  
for urgent humanitarian patient support
 •  Launch of the Heart-to-Heart Employee Relief Fund, supporting  
employees during times of financial hardship or natural disaster
 •  Employees supporting the needs of our EHM partners via the  
first-ever EHM Pro Bono Corps, providing knowledge and expertise
 • Foundation funding focusing on increasing healthcare access and equity
 • Amplified employee giving through our Employee Matching Gift program
 •  Increased in-kind donations including food, refurbished computers  
and personal protective equipment
Employee Charitable Activity and Giving
Edwards is energized by our work to support those in need, and we seek to embed  
this spirit throughout our culture by encouraging our employees to support others 
and give back.
In 2021, we had a 90 percent response rate on our engagement survey with over 
13,000 employees responding. We found that Edwards employee engagement  
scores outpaced the global top performing companies benchmark and those in  
our industry. Coming in above this benchmark showcases our workforces’  high  
level of engagement.
Not only are our employees incredibly engaged, but they are also firm believers in 
giving back to the communities we serve. According to the same survey, 82 percent 
of our employees stated they participated in charitable activities over the prior 12 
months, through volunteering Edwards’ or their personal time, or donating money  
or goods to non-profit organizations. This brings us closer to our company-wide 
aspiration to have 100 percent employee participation in engagement in charitable 
activities each year. Across the Senior Leadership Team, 100 percent stated they  
participated in charitable activities. Of those individuals who participated in a  
charitable activity, they reported having a higher level of patient focus, engagement, 
culture, belonging, empowerment, and innovation than individuals who did not  
participate in charitable activities. This is a testament to how integral philanthropy  
is to Edwards and our workforce.63
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
HIGHLIGHT STORYHighlights of 2021 global employee community giving activities and in-kind donations:
 •  Our Edwards New Zealand team provided one classroom with books and equipment 
for the entire school year, providing 40 backpacks with books, pencils, glue and other 
essentials for the school year
 •  Members of our University programs in Orange County, Calif., worked with  
elementary aged students to complete a STEAM “supertower” project, supporting  
the next generation of STEAM leaders
 •  Employees from our office in Germany built a garden and benches at a facility that 
supports families with children who are suffering with mental health issues
 •  Our Irvine employees individually decorated and filled 144 holiday food boxes to be 
passed out to families at our adopted elementary school with predominantly at-risk 
students, Washington Elementary
 •  Edwards employees in the Dominican Republic uplifted a local community center  
and library by doing wall repairs and painted the center for local children to have a  
new space
 •  Employees from India cooked and served 76,000 nutritious meals to patients,  
staff and caregivers who were treating COVID-19 patients
The Edwards Lifesciences Foundation
In 2021, Edwards’ global giving totaled nearly $21 million with over $8 million in cash  
grants from our Foundation, and approximately $8.5 million in donations of technologies   
for humanitarian aid. Additionally, we align our Foundation giving with employee  
engagement through our foundation’s employee matching gift program, which matches 
donations to non-profit organizations up to $5,000 per employee each year.  
View list of partners and grants. 
Every Heartbeat Matters
Our philanthropic initiative, EHM  focuses on improving the lives of underserved patients. 
Between 2014-2020, the EHM community impacted the global burden of heart valve  
disease by educating, screening and treating over 1.7 million underserved people,  
surpassing our initial goal of  1 million. 
Based on the accumulated knowledge and experience over the previous six years on how to 
have the greatest impact on patients, Edwards is now focused on its next phase of EHM: we 
will improve the lives of 2.5 million additional underserved structural heart and critical care 
patients by the end of 2025. This target aligns with UN SDG 3: Good Health & Well-Being.
Together with more than 50 current charitable partners we have:
1.  Broadened the initiative’s focus from heart valve disease to all structural heart  
diseases and critical care support;  Meeting Partner Needs  
with Edwards’ Expertise:  
EHM Pro Bono Corps
Through our EHM initiative, we worked  
with our partners--including Cincinnati  
Children’s Hospital, Pyxera Global and the  
incredible medical team at Fort Apache Native American Indian Reservation –  
to launch the first ever EHM Pro Bono Corps in Whiteriver, Arizona.  As a part of  
this initiative, a dedicated group of Edwards employees is giving Edwards’ time  
and their talents in communication, clinical knowledge, economics and research  
to analyze opportunities for the Reservation to provide a cardiac echo screening 
program to all the residents of the community.  In June 2022, the team returned  
to the Reservation to continue their charitable work, that began in 2021. We  
are excited to continue to identify potential opportunities to bring Edwards’ 
knowledge and expertise to our EHM partners and increase impact for the  
humanitarian patients they serve. HIGHLIGHT STORY
2.  Impacted each stage of the patient journey from detection to treatment, with an  
additional emphasis of recovery, and;
3.  Established an enhanced product donation program that provides EHM partners  
and others doing humanitarian care with access to donated Edwards products to  
provide humanitarian treatment for underserved patients outside the U.S. in  
partnership with MAP International; this includes donations of our most advanced  
surgical heart valves, heart valve repair rings, and critical care monitors and sensors. 
Since launching this new phase of EHM in 2020, the charitable partners of this  
philanthropic community have impacted over 400,000 underserved patients. Despite  
the challenges faced by the COVID-19 pandemic in providing global humanitarian care for 
underserved patients, our charitable partners have preserved and innovated opportunities  
to improve patient lives. From virtual clinical education platforms to distance mentorship  
and support of clinicians from under-resourced institutions as they treat complex patient 
cases, to pushing forward with global travel as the opportunity becomes available, this 
charitable community remains committed to its patients.
For more on EHM, including stories of impact, please see our dedicated web page.
64
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES    2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Edwards Lifesciences conducts business with care and respect for the environment.  
Our environmental annual performance is captured in our Environmental Health &  
Safety (EHS) Report. This report covers all of our business operations and contains our 
management approach and annual performance for the following material topics:
 •  Energy & emissions • Waste
 • Water • Environmental compliance 
EHS Policy
At Edwards Lifesciences, we recognize that safe and environmentally responsible  
operations bring shared value to our patients, our employees, our stakeholders, and the 
communities in which we operate.
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace by identifying and controlling 
hazards and risks, minimizing our impact on the environment through pollution  
prevention efforts, and operating in compliance with legal requirements and applicable 
standards. Through a culture of engagement and ownership, we will set goals and  
communicate our progress on a journey of continual improvement.
Environment
Governance Map
Our Governance Map illustrates the accountability structure for managing  
Environmental Health and Safety, including Energy and Emissions, Waste,  
Water and Environmental Compliance.
Corporate
Governance
Environmental
Health & Safety
Ethics &
Compliance
Product Safety
& QualityFoundationSupply  Chain
Management
Human Capital 
Managementclick to view
Achieve carbon neutrality   
by 2030  and 1.5˚C  
science-based targets