 
 
 
 
   
2020   
Environment, Health and Safety Report  
(covering  January 1 to December 31, 20 20)  
 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  2 Table of Contents  
 
Introduction ......................................................................................................................................................................... 3 
EHS at Edwards  .............................................................................................................................................................. 3 
Management Approach  ................................................................................................................................................... 4 
Materiality and Boundaries  .............................................................................................................................................. 6 
Changes in 2020  ............................................................................................................................................................. 9 
EHS Targets  .................................................................................................................................................................. 10 
Performance Report  .......................................................................................................................................................... 11 
2020 Performance Summary  ........................................................................................................................................ 11 
Materials  ........................................................................................................................................................................ 12 
Energy  ........................................................................................................................................................................... 14 
Water  ............................................................................................................................................................................. 20 
Biodiversity  .................................................................................................................................................................... 25 
Emissions  ...................................................................................................................................................................... 26 
Waste & Effluents  .......................................................................................................................................................... 33 
Compliance  ................................................................................................................................................................... 39 
Supplier EHS Assessment  ............................................................................................................................................ 42 
Occupational Health and Safety  .................................................................................................................................... 44 
Security  ......................................................................................................................................................................... 54 
Community Engagement  ............................................................................................................................................... 55 
Data Summary  .............................................................................................................................................................. 56 
Certificates  .................................................................................................................................................................... 65 
 
 
 
Cover  and above photos:   
Construction on our new Irvine headquarters Dream Big Complex was completed in 2020 and we began moving into 
our new state- of-the-art laboratories at the end of the year .  The site is constructed and furnished with environmentally 
friendly building materials, solar panel systems, low water appliances, site- wide xeriscaping and energy efficient 
lighting, air handling systems and building automation.  Along with our manufacturing plants in Costa Rica and Ireland, 
our Dream Big Complex will become LEED certifi ed in 2021.    
  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  3 Introduction  
Edwards Lifesciences (Edwards) is pleased to present our 2020 Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Annual Report 
covering the period from January 1st to December 31st, 2020.  This report supplements the 2020 Edwards Sustainability 
Report , which contains information about the sustainability topics most material to our business and how we manage 
them.  O ur EHS Annual Report  reflects our progress towards meeting our EHS targets and our commitment to:  
• Protect the health and safety of our employees , the environment  and our communities  
• Prevent workplace injuries and illnesses  
• Use natural resources and energy more efficiently and reduce air emissions, wastes and releases  
• Implement robust EHS management systems  
• Assess and manage EHS impact  across our supply chain and manufacturing activities  
• Consult with stakeholders on and raise awareness of EHS issues  
• Continually monitor and regularly report our EHS performance both inside and outside the organization 
The guiding principles of our EHS Program are stated in our Environment, Health and Safety Policy .  
Our EHS commitments and Policy are approved by Edwards  Executive Leadership, Senior Management , Corporate 
Sustainability Council  and EHS Leaders .  
EHS at Edwards  
Edwards Lifesciences  (Edwards)  is the global leader in patient focused medical innovations for structural heart disease, 
as well as critical care and surgical monitoring.   Driven by a passion to help patients, our company collaborates with the 
world’s leading clinicians and researchers to address unmet healthcare needs, working to improve patient outcomes 
and enhance lives.  Headquartered in Irvine, California, Edwards treats advanced cardiovascular disease with its life 
saving innovations, which are sold in approximately 100 countries.   Many of our company’s products are considered 
industry gold standards and over 95% percent of our sales are from products in leading market positions.   Edwards has 
manufacturing operations in North America, Central America, Europe, Singapore and the Caribbean and numerous 
regional and administrative offices around the world.  
At Edwards, we are guided by our Credo which states,  “through our actions, we will become trusted partners with 
customers, colleagues, and patients – creating a community unified in its mission to improve the quality of life around 
the world.”   Achieving safe, healthy and environmentally responsible operations  is an essential part of this philosophy.   
Strong EHS programs promote employee engagement and satisfaction, strengthen our  relationships with the 
communities in which we operate and allow us to meet and exceed the expectations of our stakeholders.  The internal 
and external benefits of our EHS programs are important to the overall success of our  business and help us live up to 
our Credo and Edwards Aspirations to…  
• Transform patient lives with breakthrough medical technologies  
• Excel as a trusted partner through distinguished quality and integrity  
• Foster an inclusive culture where employees thrive and grow  
• Demonstrate passionate engagement that strengthens our communities  
• Deliver exceptional shareholder value  
More information regarding the importance of our Edwards Sustainability Program, including a statem ent from our 
Chairman and CEO, can be found online in our 2020 Edwards Sustainability Repor t. 
Environment, Health and Safety Policy : 
Edwards Lifesciences will provide a safe and healthy workplace, promote environmental excellence in our 
operations and communities and participate in the EHS programs of our customers and stakeholders. Edwards 
will comply with relevant government regulations, medical device industry standards and other requirements 
to which the company subscribes.  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  4 Management Approach  
The Edwards EHS Management System aligns with the ISO 14001 and I SO 45001 management system principles of 
the Plan- Do-Check -Act cycle  and continual  improvement .  Critical elements of our EHS Management System include:  
• Establishing an Edwards EHS Policy rooted in our Credo and Aspirations  
• Demonstrating leadership commitment to EHS   
• Identifying significant risks , opportunities, environmental impacts and health and safety hazards  
• Adopting EHS objectives  at both corporate and manufacturing plant -levels 
• Establishing and implementing systems to maintain compl iance, prevent injuries and reduce pollution  
• Executing EHS programs, processes and operational controls  
• Evaluating performance through internal and third- party audits and management reviews  
• Identifying and executing continual  improvement opportunities  
Reporting Structure, Roles and Responsibilities  
Our Global EHS Team reports through Edwards Global EHS & Facilities Engineering function under our Corporate Vice 
President of Global Supply Chain (GSC).  This EHS structure allows EHS accountability, resources,  and strategies to 
align directly with our manufacturing and supply chain business objectives and targets,  including our suppliers, 
manufacturing operations, distribution and logistics and customer interface.  EHS is also able to effectively support our 
research and development and worldwide regions, salesforce and field clinicians and services employees.  
The Global EHS Team continues to serve as an integral part of Edwards’ sustainability initiatives, with the Senior Director of Global EHS serving as a core team member of  the Corporate Sustainability Council.  Each Edwards 
manufacturing plant is supported by its own local management and EHS team . 
Edwards EHS and Sustainability Organizational Structure  
                  
 
 
 Board of Directors
Chairman & 
CEO
Corporate Vice President, 
Global Supply Chain
Global 
Manufacturing Plants
Manufacturing Plant 
EHS Global Engineering & 
Technical Services
Global EHS & 
Facilities 
EngineeringChief Responsibility 
Officer
Edwards 
Sustainability 
CouncilCorporate Vice 
Presidents
Non-Manufacturing 
Operations 
(R&D, Regional Offices)Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  5 Role  Responsibility  
Chairman & CEO  Responsible for  Edwards overall EHS and Sustainability Performance.  
Chief Responsibility 
Officer  Responsible for leading  Edwards Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 
Programs.  
Edwards Sustainability 
Council  Responsible for developing and driving companywide Sustainability initiatives using a 
robust management framework.   Comprised of a cross -functional team of senior 
leaders  from across the Edwards organization.     
Worldwide  EHS & 
Facilities Engineering  Responsible for EHS governance, strategy and goal setting .  Establishes EHS global 
policies and standards, provides subject -matter expertise and develops global tools 
and systems  for all Edwards Operations, both manufacturing and non- manufacturing.   
Led by the Senior Director of Global EHS & Facilities Engineering and Senior Director 
of Global EHS.   Aligns our EHS program with overall corporate and business unit  
strategies.  
Manufacturing Plant EHS  Deploys EHS programs , managem ent systems  and initiatives to  support Edwards 
global EHS strategy and address manufacturing plant  EHS risks and opportunities.  
Ensures compliance with Edwards standards as well as local rules and regulations.  
Supports ongoing needs of manufacturing plant operations.   Comprised of a team of 
EHS professional s at each manufacturing plant.  Plant EHS leads are members  of the 
manufacturing plant leadership team, reporting directly to each plant leader.       
 
Governance and Accountability  
The Compensation and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors has oversight over Edwards sustainability 
efforts and periodically reviews reports on our progress.  Our Chairman and CEO has performance management 
objectives for improving our sustainability strategy, metrics,  and disclosures.  Led by our Chief Responsibility Officer, 
the Edwards Sustainability Council develops and drives the implementation of these ini tiatives.   The Sustainability 
Council comprises leaders from various functions across Edwards, including our Global  Senior Director of 
Environmental Health & Safety.  Council members represent their specific areas of responsibility and collaborate to 
ident ify aspects and impacts, prioritize risks and 
opportunities,  and set short and long- term goals to improve 
our overall sustainability performance.  
Edwards Global EHS  and Manufacturing Plant EHS are 
maintained as separate entities accountable to different functions under Edwards Global Supply Chain.   This 
separation ensures transparency and objectivity when 
evaluating and reporting the regulatory compliance of 
manufacturing operations, where the majority of Edwards 
EHS compliance risk and sustainability oppor tunities exist .  
While Global EHS reports through Global Supply Chain, the 
EHS policies and standards  developed under Global EHS 
apply to all of Edwards employees and operations, such as 
policies on maintaining compliance, preventing injuries and 
reducing pollution.   Edwards locations also develop site-
specific  EHS policies and procedures appropriate to local 
regulations or cultural attributes , which are consistent with 
and meet the overall requirements of our Global EHS 
standards .  
In order to ensur e accountability, Global EHS  monitors and reports companywide EHS performance on an ongoing 
basis to corporate management and relevant business leaders.   Edwards manufacturing and non- manufacturing 
locations are then responsible for assessing and providing  the resources (headcount, training, ongoing expense, capital 
investments ) needed to deliver  EHS compliance and performance for their areas of responsibility .   
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  6 Grievance Structure, Ethics,  and Integrity  
As part of EHS governance, the Edwards EHS  policy and commitments are included in the Edwards Titanium Book of 
Global Business Practice Standards  which establishes our g lobal policies on corporate ethics and expectations.  The 
Titanium Book is pr inted in multiple languages and available to all employees and suppliers world wide.  In addition, any 
employee may present an anonymous  grievance related to EHS practices through our Edwards Speak ‐Up Program .  
Through this program, internal and external parties can report concerns to a third- party hosted Edwards Integrity 
Helpline  or make reports to the Helpline through the internet.  Any matter reported through the Helpline is treated 
confidentially and sh ared only with those that need to know for purposes of an investigation and, if appropriate, 
corrective action.   Reports can be made anonymously, as permitted by local law.  Grievances are reviewed and 
addressed by Edwards ’ Chief Responsibility Officer  and reported to our CEO when appropriate.  
In 2020 there were no internal or external grievances related to EHS concerns 
reported to Edwards.   Edwards was also selected as one of Ethisphere’s World’s 
Most Ethical Companies , in addition to several other industry awards  and accolades .  
This is the fifth year in a row that Edwards has received this distinguished honor, and 
we are one of only two medical technology companies to be recognized in 2020, and 
the only one in the United States.  More information about our global integrity and 
ethics program and for reporting a grievance or concern may be found on the 
Corporate Responsibility page of the Edwar ds Lifesciences website.  
Materiality and Boundaries  
GRI 101 
In 2019, Edwards conducted a refresh of our materiality assessment in order to understand any changing priorities in 
environmental, social and governance (ESG)  topics since our first materiality assessment in 2015 .  This 2019 
assessment continues through 2020 as the tool to help us identify our most salient opportunities and risks associated with our sustainability program.  More information on the 2019 material assessment, including a description of the methodology used to conduct the assessment, can be found in our 2019 Edwards Sustainability Report .  
EHS topics which emerged as material to Edwards are contained in the matrix below : 
 
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  7 Topic  Description  & Boundary   
● CLIMATE RISK  
 
Tier II  
 Strengthening Our 
Communities  
  “Climate Risk” refers to the risks and potential impacts resulting from the effects of global 
climate change.  These risks include transition risks related to policy, technology, market 
and reputation, as well as physical risks from extreme weather events, changing weather 
patterns, r ising sea level s and air temperature.  
 At Edwards, risks associated with climate change which may impact the financial well -
being of our global business are assessed and managed through our Corporate Risk Management function.  
 
Boundaries: Edwards Manufacturing and Non- Manufacturing Operations and Supply 
Chain  
 
For more information, see the Emissions section  of this Report . 
● ENERGY & 
EMISSIONS  
 
Tier II  
 Strengthening Our 
Communities  “Energy and Air Emissions” refers to direct and indirect energy consumption and 
emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG), SOx, NOx , particulate matter  and other 
hazardous air pollutants which may result from our  manufacturing processes  and facility 
operations .   
 
Direct energy sources at facilities owned and operated by Edwards include the use of 
natural gas for space heating and water processes, diesel  fuel for emergency generators, 
propane for auxiliary fuel purposes and gasoline for company -driven vehicles.  Our 
indirect energy includes electricity purchased from utility providers to support operations.  
Other indirect energy which is not owned or controlled by Edwards includes energy 
consumed for employee business travel and personal commuting to and from work.  
 Boundary: Edwards Manufacturing and Non- Manufacturing Operations, Employee 
Business and Personal Commuting     
 
For more information, see the Energy and Emissions sections  of this Report . 
● ENVIRONMENTAL 
COMPLIANCE  
 Tier III 
 
Excelling as a Trusted 
Partner  “Environmental Compliance” refers to the Edwards’ adherence to all applicable laws, 
regulations , Edwards standards and industry norms related to protecting the environment.  
We have established environmental compliance programs for air emissions, wastewater, 
storm water, hazardous waste management and disposal and spill response and prevention.   
 Edwards manages environmental compliance in conjunction with occupational health and 
safety compliance through the ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 management system 
frameworks.  
 Boundary: Edwards Manufacturing and Non- Manufacturing Operations  
 
For more information, see the Compl iance section  of this Report .  
● PRODUCT 
LIFECYCLE  
 Tier II  
 Strengthening Our 
Communities  “Product Lifecyle” refers to the process of managing the entire lifecycle of a product 
through inception, engineering design and manufacture, service and disposal of 
manufactured products  and packaging.    
 For Edwards, product lifecycle refers both our products and packaging with regards to the 
selection, elimination, management and reporting of ma terials of concern in compliance 
with REACH, RoHS , the Montreal Protocol, Conflict Minerals and a variety of other 
reporting obligations .   
 Boundary:  Edwards Manufacturing and Non- Manufacturing Operations  
 
For more information, see the Materials section  of this Report . Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  8 ● WASTE  
 
Tier II  
 Strengthening Our 
Communities  “Waste” refers regulated or non -regulated waste  materials generated at our facilities which 
may be treated, recycl ed and or disposed.  Regulated waste includes hazardous and 
biohazardous waste generated primarily from manufacturing operations and R&D activities.  Non -regulated waste consists of regular, non- industrial trash.  The majority of 
waste generated by Edwards occurs at our man ufacturing plants and is, therefore, the 
focus in this report.     
 Boundary: Edwards Manufacturing Operations  
 
For more information, see the Waste section  of this Report .  
● WATER 
 
Tier II  
 
Strengthening Our 
Communities  “Water” refers to the withdrawal, consumption and discharge of water for manufacturing 
processes, facility operations, employee personal use and property landscaping.  
 
Boundary: Edwards Manufacturing and Non- Manufacturing Operations  
 For more information,  see the Water section of this Report .  
● WORKPLACE 
HEALTH & SAFETY  
 Tier II  
 
Excelling as a Trusted 
Partner  “Workplace Health & Safety” refers to Edwards’ efforts to protect the well -being of 
employees and on- site contractors through compliance and injury prevention programs.  
 Boundary: Edwards Manufacturing Operations, Edwards Non- Manufacturing Operations  
 For more information, see the Occupational Health and Safety section of this Report . 
 
Boundary Definitions  
“Edwards Manufacturing Operations”  includes seven active  global manufacturing plants  which are listed below:  
 
“Edwards Non- Manufacturing Operations” includes  more than 50 global sales and commercial support offices located in 
the following regions:  
 
“Employee Business and Personal Commuting” i ncludes  employee travel by airplane, train, bus, vehicle and bicycle for 
business purposes or employee personal commuting to and from work.   This includes all Edwards employees 
worldwide.  
Irvine, California (Headquarters)    Haina, Dominican Republic  
Añasco, Puerto Rico      Shannon/Limerick , Ireland  
Cartago, Costa Rica      Singapore  
Draper, Utah  
 
Note:  Our Horw, Switzerland facility was closed in 2018.  We continue to report historical numbers for years prior to 
2018 for the purpose of comparing to baseline numbers used to measure our performance against targets.  In 2020, 
our newest manufacturing plant in Limerick, Ireland remained under construction, with completion and final delivery 
scheduled for early 2021, and is not included in this report unless specifically referenced.  
North America (NORAM)     Japan, Asia Pacific (JAPAC)  
Latin America (LATAM)      Europe, Middle East, Africa (EMEA)  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  9 Changes in 20 20 
GRI 102-10 
In 2020, Edwards continued to successfully grow in product mix, size, revenue, headcount, real estate and overall 
manufacturing operations .  During this growth, we achieved all but one of our long- term injury targets and environmental 
footprint  reduction targets .  We identified the following changes in our business operations which have had an impact on 
our EHS and sustainability reporting:  
• Edwards revenue increased about  1% from $ 4.348 to $4.3 86 billion,  2019 to 2020, even with the global 
challenges presented by the COVID -19 outbreak.  
• Our headcount grew 8.6%  from 13,900 to 15, 100 employees worldwide year-end employment numbers . 
• We increased our nonmanufacturing global real estate, clinical services,  and administrative functions . 
• We completed final and significant stages of construction of our future LEED -certified Dream Big Complex 
in at our Irvine headquarters and manufacturing plant in Costa Rica.  
• Our health and safety program emphasized our response to the COVID -19 global outbreak in order to 
ensure we limited exposures, prevented occupational illnesses , implemented effective case management 
protoc ols and provided necessary benefits to our employees infected by the virus.  
• We strengthened our global EHS program by further enhancing our EHS network across global operations, 
increasing management influence and commitments and integrating EHS deeper int o our strategic 
planning processes.  
• We completed our first phase at revamping our global EHS policies, programs and procedures by incorporating them into a master global compliance, standards procedures program to ensure all of our 
global sites operate under uniform EHS requirements.  This includes our commitment to launch our one-stop- shop EHS Management Systems and reporting software program in 2021.  
• Except for the impact of COVID -19, there were no other internal or external changes in EHS topics which 
impacted our EHS performance.  
• We had no other significant changes to our safety and environmental materiality and related topics.  
 
Impact of COVID -19 on our EHS Performance in 2020:  
 
 
 
As with almost all organizations worldwide, Edwards was impacted by the global outbreak of the coronavirus SARS -
CoV-2 (COVID -19) and was required to refine and execute enterprise- wide and site- level pandemic response plans . 
 
Local governments categorized all  seven (7) global manufacturing plants  and field operations  as essential 
businesses  due the necessity of providing our life saving medical devices across the world; especially our critical 
care products which were vita l to the treatment of COVID -19 hospitalized patients.  
 The following items should be noted for this report : 
 In each section of this report, we provide a short summary of how COVID -19 impacted each reporting topic .  
For example, in our Energy  section, we describe the impact of new work -from- home policies on facility 
energy consumption.  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  10  In the Occupational Safety and Health section of this report, we provide information regarding our COVID -19 
response and illness prevention plans at our  Corporate Headquarters,  global manufacturing plans,  and 
worldwide field operations . 
 Throughout the global outbreak , Edwards maintained operations as an essential business  with e mployee 
work hours  increasing 2.5% from 2019 to 2020.  While COVID -19 did have an impact in revenue and 
therefore environmental intensity metrics, absolute environmental measures and injury/illness rates reflect 
Edwards manufacturing plants and field personnel operating at full capacity and productivity.  
 In order to minimize health and safety risk and maintain physical distancing at our manufacturing plants , 
regional offices  and Corporate Headquarters,  most administrative and office personnel worked from home.  
We are including their safety and environmental i mpact numbers as if they continued to work full -time onsite.  
 
EHS T argets  
GRI 103-02 
Edwards has adopted 5- Year EHS Plans since 2000, including 2000- 2005, 2006- 2010, 2011- 2015 and, currently, 2016-
2020.  We systematically improve our planning strategies as we continue to meet the changing needs of our  business 
and stakeholder expectations for EHS compliance, reducing pollution and preventing injuries.   These targets are rooted 
in our Edwards Aspirations and support our overall EHS objectives.  Annually, we re-evaluate our goals by reviewing 
our own performance and by benchmarking peer companies and industry publications to ensure these goals  remain 
relevant.  This report covers the period of January 1st through December 31st, 2020 and closes out  our five- year 
reporting cycle.   Performance against our stated EHS targets is the focus of this Report and is covered in detail in the 
remaining sections.  
In addition, we pleased to announce our next set of  five-year EHS targets for the period of 2021- 2025.  
 2016 -2020 Target  2021 -2025 Target  
EHS 
Compliance   No serious or willful violations   No serious or willful violations  
 Achieve ISO 14001 certification at all 
existing manufacturing plants by the end of 2018 and at new manufacturing plants 
within 3 years of start -up  Achieve ISO 14001 certification at all 
existing manufacturing plants by 2023  
 Prepare for ISO 45001 certification at all 
manufacturing plants (certification target 
planned for next 5 -year cycle)   Achieve ISO 45001 certification at all 
existing manufacturing plants by 2023  
Injury & Illness 
Prevention   Beat medical device industry benchmark 
for recordable injuries and illnesses (RIR) by 25%, based on publicly reported 
industry injury rates   Reduce injuries 35% from 201 9 baseline  
Environmental 
Stewardship   Maintain 0% change in energy use*   Achieve 10% reduction in energy 
consumption*  
 Achieve 35% profile in renewable energy 
sources*  
 Achieve 15% reduction in water use*   Achieve 10% reduction in water 
withdrawal*  
 Achieve 20% reduction in hazardous 
waste disposal*   Achieve 10% reduction total waste  
disposal * 
 Achieve 20% reduction in non -hazardous 
waste disposal*  
 Complete packaging lifecycle 
assessments and improvements to reduce 
15% packaging waste for targeted high-
volume commercial products by 2020  
 Maintain 0% change in greenhouse gas 
emissions*   Achieve 10% reduction in greenhouse gas 
emissions*  
 Complete a global energy assessment by 
2020   Complete a global energy assessment by 
2022 
 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  11 Performance Report  
2020 Performance Summary  
2016 -2020 Targets  2016 -2020 Performance  
 No serious or willful violations  Target achieved  
0 serious or willful violations  
 Achieve ISO 14001 certification at all existing 
manufacturing plants by the end of 2018 and at new 
manufacturing plants within 3 years of start -up Target achieved  
100% existing plants certified; start- up locations are 
on plan  
 Prepare for ISO 45001 certification at all 
manufacturing plants (certification target planned for 
next 5 -year cycle)  Target achieved  
43% plants certified;  remaining plants are on plan 
 Beat medical  device  industry benchmark for 
recordable injuries and illnesses (RIR) by 25%, 
based on publicly reported industry injury rates * Target achieved  
65% below industry benchmark  
0.63 IRR: Best recordable rate in Edwards history  
 Maintain 0% change in energy use, normalized by 
annual revenue  Target achieved  
4.2% reduction  
 Achieve 15% reduction in water use, normalized by 
annual revenue  Target achieved  
15% reduction  
 Achieve 20% reduction in hazardous waste  disposal , 
normalized by annual revenue  Target not achieved  
26% increase due to increased research & 
development and validation activities  
 Achieve 20% reduction in non-hazardous  waste 
disposal , normalized by annual revenue  Target achieved  
21% reduction  
 Maintain 0% change in greenhouse gas emissions , 
normalized by annual revenue  Target achieved  
16% reduction  
 Complete packaging lifecycle assessments and 
improvements to reduce 15% packaging waste for 
targeted high- volume commercial products by 2020  Target achieved  
5 projects completed with 15% or greater reduction 
in packaging waste; total reduction of 150,000 kg/yr 
See 2019 EHS Report  
 Complete a global energy assessment by 2020  In progress  
Site studies delayed due to COVID -19 travel 
restrictions ; target deadline extended to 2022  
* Includes Edwards employees and temporary employees, based on OSHA incidence rate calculation of: (# incidents x 
200,000)/hours worked ; 2018  USA Bureau of Labor Statistics, NAICS 3391: Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing 
Additional metrics including 5 -year historical results are available in the Data Summary section of this Report.  
  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  12 Materials   
2016 -2020 Target  2016 -2020 Performance  
 Complete packaging lifecycle assessments and 
improvements to reduce 15% packaging waste for 
targeted high- volume commercial products by 2020  Target achieved  
5 projects completed with 15% or greater reduction 
in packaging waste; total reduction of 150,000 kg/yr 
(based on current sales volumes)  
(refer to our 2019 EHS Report for details)  
More information on progress towards our packaging reduction target can be found in our 2020  Edwards Sustainability Report .  
Management Approach  
GRI 103  
At Edwards , we are commit ted to designing packaging systems  which meet customer and medical device regulatory 
requirements , while remaining cost-effective and minimiz ing impact to the environment .  As we strive to continually 
improve our packaging, we are required to balance a number of risks and opportunities including cost of packaging, 
materials and resource availability, stringent medical device packaging and labeling requirements, stakeholder 
expectat ions and shipping costs.  
There are many regulatory and industry restrictions which dictate or limit our options when it comes to decisions 
regarding material selection and renewable vs. non- renewable resources, recycled content and reclaimed products and 
their packaging materials .  Our goal is to ensure our products are fully compliant with chemical and materials 
regulations and medical device requirements.  We have procedures in place to assess the materials in our packaging and products and make continual  improvements to ensure our products are free of banned or environmentally adverse 
materials.   Safety procedures , material selection criteria and our design processes also protect our employees  and the 
public  by limiting exposure to potentially harmful chemical s, air pollution and wastes.  
In 2019, we met our 2015- 2020 target to reduce packaging of targeted high- volume commercial projects by 15%.  
Please refer to our 2019 EHS Report for more information and details on specific products, projects,  and results .  Refer 
to our EHS Sustainability Report for more information and details regarding our materials and packaging programs.  
As a result of meeting our target one year ahead of schedule, and looking towards the future, we revamped our product stewardship organization, leadership and engineering staff to provide a stronger focus at meeting our materials and packaging regulatory requirements, quality, social issues, environment, employee safety and community health.  
Our new Product Stewardship team reports up to our Sr. Director of Strategy and Vice President of Global Worldwide 
Engineering.   The team, including as cross function of business unit product stewards and subject matter experts , 
meets on a quarterly basis to drive our commitment of product stewardship governance across our global business 
units, evaluate our status on material compliance and provide complete visibility across Edwards into our material 
composition and product lifecycle leadership.  
Our focus includes regulatory programs  such as REACH, RoHS, Conflict Minerals, California Proposition 65 and Waste 
from Electronic and Electrical Equipment (WEE).  We also evaluate our compliance to specific chemicals or substances 
of concern, such as DEHP, PFOA, BPA , Persistent Organic Pollut ants (POPs) and similar adverse c ompounds.  
We believe our new approach will provide three primary benefits to Edwards, our patients and our communities:  
• Differentiate capabilities to shape the future  
• Develop the ability to rapidly respond to change  
• Provide a strong foundation to support Edwards growth  
 
Product Materials and Disclosures  
Edwards is committed to meeting our material content disclosure requirements, such as REACH, RoHS, Conflict 
Mineral s, California Proposition 65 and local disclosures as appli cable.  Information regarding our materials strategies 
and disclosures (including Conflict Minerals) is further discussed in our 2020 Edwards Sustainability Report . Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  13 In 2018, we cr eated a new Supplier Portal that automates the process of collecting supplier responses into our Material 
Compliance Module.  The collection and reporting or our product materials aligns  with the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals SDG 8: Decent W ork and Economic Growth and SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and 
Production.   This process has been successfully implemented and we continue to grow our database with material 
information and knowledge to meet our compliance and customer expectations.  
In ma ny instances, we are asked to provide specific product or packaging materials and environmental information 
during our customer qualification and tender bidding processes.  Although requests come from across the globe, our 
most common requests are from our  customers in Europe, specifically France, Germany, Italy and Spain.  We also 
have larger purchasing groups who frequently make inquiries regarding our overall sustainability efforts, including global responsibility, social programs, energy, greenhouse gas es, packaging and product material content.   In addition, we 
screen our suppliers to ensure they are compliant with local environmental and safety regulations, as well as reporting of REACH, RoHS, Conflict Minerals and related materials regulations and res trictions.  
Packaging Materials 
Environmental considerations are incorporated into Edwards packaging design, development and qualification 
processes and procedures.  Our goal is to develop and implement packaging systems which not only meet our customer and industry requirements, but also facilitate safer, more efficient and cost -effective delivery while minimizing 
our impact to the environment.  Our Packaging Engineering teams are continual ly searching for and evaluating options 
for alternate materials, processes and sterilization methods that may improve packaging performance while reducing wastes and air emissions.   
Appropriate recycling logos, stamps and insignias are used on packaging m aterials as required for EU Packaging 
Waste Directive 94/62/EC and Electronic & Waste Directive 2002/96/EC.  Environmental packaging initiatives have resulted in reduced packaging materials and less waste.  In addition, stronger durability, smaller package sizes and 
improved pallet configurations have resulted in improvements in overall shipping efficiencies through our global supply 
chain initiatives.   
Refer to our 2020 Edwards Sustainability Report for specific programs and results regarding our product s tewardship, 
material compliance and packaging reduction initiatives.  
Recycled Material Input  
GRI 303- 2 
Medical device regulations and industry standards restrict or ban the use of recycled or reused materials in our products and primary packaging materials.  This topic is not considered material  for Edwards . 
Reclaimed Products and Packaging  
GRI 30 3-3 
Hospi tals, clinics,  and other customers are required to manage used medical products and packaging materials in 
accordance to their own local medical waste and biohazardous materials regulations, handling and disposal controls.  This topic is not considered mat erial for Edwards . 
  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  14 Energy  
2016 -2020 Target  2016 -2020 Performance  
 Maintain 0% change in energy use, normalized by 
annual revenue  Target achieved  
4.2% reduction  
Additional metrics including 5 -year historical results are available in the Data Summary section of this Report.  
Impact to energy usage from COVID -19 in 2020:  
 
In general, the impact of COVID -19 did not significantly change our direct and indirect energy use in 2020 for our 
environmental reporting purposes.  However, it did significantly change the energy used outside the organization.  
 
The following impacts were considered for this report:  
• Edwards global manufacturing plants continued to operate as essent ial businesses  in all of the countries in 
which we operate in order to provide necessary medical devices to our customers and patients; specifically, 
our Critical Care products were essential for the treatment and care of COVID -19 affected patients 
throughout the world.  
• Although most of our nonmanufacturing employees worked from home or telecommuted much of the year, 
the impact at our plants was minimal as the majority of energy used is to maintain manufacturing operations.  
• For our global workforce outside of manufacturing plants, we continued to assume they used the same 
energy consistent with prior years, which is based on a square footage calculation and industry benchmark.  
• Our direct and indirect total energy use increased approximately 7 % year -over-year primarily due to the 
growth of our new manufacturing plant in Costa Rica.  
• Our energy used outside the organization, such as for employee commuting and travel, significantly reduced 
to due travel restrictions related to COVID -19.  Overall, energy use outside of the organization decreased 
approximately 36 %. 
 
Management Approach  
GRI 103  
The scope of Edwards’ energy management program covers our areas of operational control and includes all owned 
and leased locations across the globe, including all manufacturing locations and non- manufacturing regional offices.  
Additionally, Edwards considers energy consumed outside of our organization which is  a result of employee commuting 
and business travel.  Our approach towards managing energy  is consistent with our overall EHS management approach 
of Plan- Do-Check -Act, continual improvement, governance and assignment of roles and responsibilities discussed 
earlier in the Introduction: Management Approach and EHS Compliance sections of this Report.  Annually, each 
manufacturing plant assesses its energy -related aspects and impacts and incorporates appropriate energy conservation 
and protection objectives into annual operating plans.   At a companywide level, we continually assess our energy -
related risks, which include higher energy costs, unreliable supply , intermittent energy outages due to natural and 
manmade disasters and long- term adverse impact on the environment from greenhouse gas emissions.  We then 
assess opportunities to mitigate these r isks and reduce overall environmental impact.  Specific to energy , we embrace  
opportunit ies to ensure our newly constructed manufacturing plants , nonmanufacturing buildings  and existing facility 
renovation projects incorporate energy -efficient design and i nfrastructure, such as LEED gold and silver certification 
programs .  Additionally, we are looking closely at our global energy mix and finding ways to increase our use of 
renewable energy sources.    
For reporting purposes, Edwards tracks energy consumption in the following categories:  
Energy Type  Source  Examples  
Direct  
 Natural gas  
Diesel fuel  
Propane  
Gasoline  Steam boilers  
Emergency generators  
Forklifts, cogeneration plant , cafeteria use  
Gasoline for company -operated vehicles  
Indirect   Electricity  Electricity purchased  from utility providers  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  15  Renewable electricity generated on -site from solar panels  
Outside the 
Organization  Business Travel  
Employee Commuting  Air & rail travel  
Individual vehicle, bus, rail , pedestrian transport to and from work  
 
Our energy target is based upon an evaluation of past performance, risks,  and opportunities, as well as benchmarking 
against peer companies in the medical device industry.  As Edwards continues to rapidly grow , we have chosen to set a 
norma lized energy target  based upon annual revenue.   
Edwards compiles direct and indirect energy use data for our global manufacturing plants through review of utility 
provider invoices, purchas ing record s and onsite logs .  Our method for estimating direct and indirect energy  use at each 
non-manufacturing office location is based upon square footage and published energy use factors .  Based on records 
and estimation factors, we have adopted a 0.95  confidence level in reporting of our direct and indirect energy use data.  
For energy used outside the organization from sources that  Edwards does not own or control , such as energy used for 
business travel and employee commuting, we ver ify employee travel records through our travel management partner  
and estimate employee commuting choices through the use of questionnaires , sales fleet mileage reports, Edwards  
commuting program registrations (e.g. onsite electric vehicle charging station records , employee ridership programs, 
MetroLink accounts ) and parking lot surveys.  We have adopted a 0.80 confidence level for our “other indirect” energy 
use data.    
Edwards has openly report ed our energy  management practices and metrics through CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure 
Project)  since 2014.   These public reports may be found at www.cdp.net . Direct and Indirect Energy Use.  
GRI 302- 1, GRI- 302-3 
Edwards uses direct and indirect energy onsite for cooling, heating, steam generation, cogeneration, lighting, 
emergency diesel generators, company -owned vehicles, cafeteria services, manufacturing equipment and office 
equipment.  A breakdown of energy use for 2020 by application is  shown in the table below.   
Application  Manufacturing  
Energy Use (GJ)  Non-Manufacturing  
Energy Use (GJ)  Total  
Energy Use (GJ)  
Electricity  
Cooling, lighting, manufacturing equipment, 
office equipment  311,860  34,765 346,614 
Natural Gas  
Space heating, water heating, steam generation, 
manufacturing systems & equipment  96,811  19,239 116,050 
Diesel Fuel  
Emergency generators  23,980  0 23,980  
Propane  
Cogeneration plant, cafeteria  102,923  0 102,923  
Gasoline  
Company -operated vehicles  346 0 346 
Total  535,920  54,004  589,924 
 
Edwards generates onsite electricity primarily from our propane cogeneration plant in Puerto Rico and solar panel 
systems at our Irvine, CA headquarters and Nyon, Switzerland European headquarters .  For the purposes of this 
Report, all energy consumed duri ng the process of generating onsite electricity is reported in the tables and graphs 
above.  To avoid double- counting, electricity generated onsite is not included in this data, however, more information 
regarding our onsite electricity generation is repor ted later in this section.   Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  16 In 2020, Edwards consumed a total of 589,924 GJ of 
energy at our global manufacturing and non-
manufacturing locations.  Approximately 60% of this 
was indirect energy  purchased from utility providers.  
The remaining 40 % was direct energy generated from 
onsite owned or controlled sources  at our 
manufacturing and non- manufacturing locations.   This 
represents an increase in absolute direct and indirect 
energy of 7% over 2019  and an increase of 69 % over 
our 2015 baseline year.    
However, s ince 2015, Edwards has grown in size and 
revenue much faster than we have increased our 
energy  use.  When normalized by annual revenue, 
Edwards’ energy intensity has reduced 4% since 
2015.  This result beats our five- year 0% change in 
energy use target.   
From 2015 to 2020, our average cost of energy decreased from $32. 49 to $24. 11 per GJ .  This decrease in energy cost 
over time can be attributed to our new  cogeneration plant in Puerto Rico, increase in solar power generation and 
reconfiguration in our electrical distribution system in Irvine and organic growth of our Irvine and Draper sites which 
have relatively lower energy cost s when compared to our other manufacturing plants.   The  overall impact of our year -
over-year energy intensity and cost reductions has been approximately $20.77 million  in energy  cost avoidance from 
2016  to 2020.  
 
Direct and Indirect Energy Mix  
GRI 302- 1 
In 2020, E dwards  received  17% of our energy from renewable sources  like hydroelectric, solar , geothermal and wind 
energy.  The remaining 83% of our energy came from traditional fossil fuel -based sources like natural gas, coal , and oil.  
This is a  24% improvement from 2018, when Edwards ’ renewable energy consumption was  only 13% of total energy .   
 
 
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  17  
As Edwards continues to evolve o n our sustainability journey , we realize the importance of investing in renewable 
energy .  Evidence of this is our  latest investments to build energy efficient, LEED -certified facilities in Cost a Rica and 
Ireland, where we are constructing our newest manufacturing plants, and in Irvine, where we are expanding our current 
headquarters campus .  While we are already seeing the impact  of these investments  a significant improvement  in 
renewable energy  in 2020 versus 2018, i t is expected that when these manufacturing plants come on- line and reach full 
capacity, our use of renewable energy will increase further and our reliance on fossil fuel -based energy will significantly 
decrease.   We are estimating that by the year 2025, we will have doubled our renewable energy mix  and between 30-
40% of our total energy consumption will be from renewable sources.  
In Costa Rica,  over 99% of the electricity received from the public utility comes from renewable sources , primarily 
hydroelectric .  While some propane is required at our Costa Rica manufacturing plant to power onsite boilers  and 
cafeteria equipment , the remainder of the plant is powered by Costa Rica’s “green” energy .  As the Costa Rica plant 
continues to grow , a larger proportion of Edwards’ manufacturing work will  be supported by renewable energy sources.  
 
 
In Ireland, where we have established a start -up manufacturing plant in Shannon and are currently moving into our new 
state -of-the-art manufacturing plant in Limerick , our local electricity partner is providing us with 100% renewable energy , 
primarily in the form of wind energy.   In 2020, Ireland operations comprised of only  1% of Edwards’ total energy use.  As 
our Ireland manufacturing capabilities come online over the next several years, we will see a significant shift in our 
energy mix towards more renewable sources.  
At our other global locations, we are continuously look ing for opportunities to invest in renewable energy sources.  At 
our Irvine, CA headquarters we continue to add solar panels with every  facility expansion project.  At our D ominican 
Republic, Costa Rica and Ireland locations , we are evaluating opportunities to install  photovoltaic panels for solar 
energy generation.    
  
 
Application  2020 Result  
Non-renewable fuels purchased and 
consumed (TJ)  127.2  
Non-renewable steam/heating/cooling 
purchased (TJ)  116.1 
Non-renewable electricity purchased (TJ)  246.1  
Renewable electricity purchased (TJ)  100.5  
Total non -renewable energy (TJ)  489.4  
Total renewable energy (TJ)  100.5  
Total cost of energy ($USD)  $14,222,150  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  18 Energy Use Reduction  
GRI 302- 4 
Over 91% of Edwards total energy use occurs at our seven global manufacturing locations.   Approximately 60‐ 70% of 
all energy consumed in our manufacturing locations is used to preserve the integrity of our clean room manufacturing 
environments, which includes providing constant air circulation and maintaining narrow temperature and humidity 
ranges .  Our manufacturing areas typically use about eight  to ten times more energy per square foot than our non-
manufacturing and office areas. The high ener gy use at our manufacturing sites is essential to maintain the quality and 
efficacy of our life‐ saving medical devices  by ensuring we meet FDA and other regulatory -driven quality requirements .  
Our reductions in year -over-year energy intensity can be attributed to steady, incremental improvements in energy  
efficiency at our  manufacturing locations.  In 2020, manufacturing plants in Irvine, Draper and Puerto Rico held absolute 
energy use at or below 2019  levels, even though manufacturing continued through COVID -19 business restrictions.     
Energy Use Outside the Organization  
Edwards tracks and reports energy consumption for business travel and employee commuting.   Business travel 
includes employees traveling for the purpose of work  by air or rail .  We began tracking and incorporating business travel 
data into our reporting in 2015 .  Employee commuting includes employee daily travel to and from the normal workplace.  
Daily mileage logged by our sales teams and field- based clinicians is  also included in our employee commuting data.   
We began tracking and incorporating employee commuting data into our reporting in 2016 .  For reporting purposes,  we 
assume each employee commutes to work 260 days per year.   
Outside the Organization Energy Use 
(GJ) 2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  
Business Travel  
Air, rail  197,155  226,553  262,140  304,890  357,720  82,035  
Employee Commuting  
Individual vehicle, bus, train, motorcycle  Did not track  233,894  345,158  356,817  331,071  357,204  
Total  197,155  460,447  607,298  661,707  688,791  439,239  
 
In 2020, 439,239 GJ of energy was consumed outside the organization for business travel and employee commuting.  
While this represents a 36 % reduction in absolute energy use over prior year, the change can be mostly attributed to 
business travel restrictions imposed by government authorities to control the spread of COVID -19.  However, we 
continue to anticipate long term trend of reducing energy used outside the organization to continue in 2021 and beyond 
as more of our employees commit to energy efficient alternatives for commuting as with increased uses in bus, train, vanpool, carpool, hybrid and electric vehicles and telecommuting options.  
   
Over 99% of Edwards business travel is by air.  Approximately 65% of this air travel is  in the North America region.   The 
majority of Edwards business travel by rail occurs in Europe.   In 2020, our energy used for travel decreased 77% due to 
travel restrictions  imposed by local governments to control the spread of COVID -19.  We expect that our travel mileages 
will return to regular pre- COVID levels in mid -year 2021 and beyond.  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  19 Typically, about 40% of our employees travel to work  in alternative, more energy -efficient modes of transportation s uch 
as by bus, carpool or vanpool, hybrid and electric vehicle , motorcycle, bicycle,  or other means .  In 2020, in order to 
practice our physical distancing policies during COVID -19, we suspended our vanpool and carpool practic es. 
However, in 2020 we continued our company sponsored employee bus commuting services in the Dominican Republic, 
Singapore and Costa Rica manufacturing locations while practicing good COVID -19 safety measures.   We provide bus 
transportation to 4,655 commuters who make up approximately 30% of our global workforce .  This effort reduces single 
car commuting by over 65,000,000 kilometers each year.  
In Singapore and the Dominican Republic, we provide fully 
sponsored, no- cost tour -style coaches and local bus services to 
approximately 3, 700 employees.  In Costa Rica, we provide low -
cost subsidized bus services from local suppliers for over 900 
employees .  In addition to bus transport, Edwards supports 
alternative commuting through carpool and vanpool  programs, 
commuter train subsidies and onsite electric -vehicle charging.  Our 
employee commuting program offerings vary by site and are 
tailored to meet the needs of the local employee population and 
commuting profile.    
 
 
Luxury coaches provided to our employees in Singapore  
 
On our employee buses, i n order to help prevent the spread of COVID -19, we practiced necessary health checks, 
sanitization and physical distancing at all of our locations.  
   
Seats demarcated for alternate  
seating to maximi ze distance  Employees disinfecting hands  
prior to entering the buses  Sanitizing buses before  
and after each trip  
 
Energy Generated  
Our commitment to solar energy at our sites not only helps to reduce operating costs, but also provides clean, 
renewable energy to our local utility providers.  
At our Irvine, CA  headquarters we continue to expand our solar energy generation capacity.   Our  existing photovoltaic 
panel  system s generated more than 1.3 million kilowatts of electricity in 2020, which is a nearly a 20% increase over the 
prior year.  With expansion of solar at our new Dream Big technology and R&D complex  in 2021, we expect to incr ease 
our solar generation to increase another  15-20%.  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  20  
New Dream Big  
Technology R&D Complex   
Solar panels on top of our parking 
structures surrounding our central park   
Solar panels in our newest  
parking structure  
 
In addition to our Irvine headquarters, we also are equipped with solar panel systems at our EMEA/LATAM headquarters in Nyon, Switzerland.   
Energy from Products and Services  
Energy consumption from the use of Edwards’ medical devices and professional serv ices by our customers and 
stakeholders is minimal and not material to Edwards’ overall environmental footprint.  
Water  
2016 -2020 Target  2016 -2020 Performance  
 Achieve 15% reduction in water use , normalized by 
annual revenue  Target achieved  
15% reduction  
Additional metrics including 5 -year historical results are available in the Data Summary section of this Report.  
Impact to water consumption from COVID -19 in 2020:  
 
In general, the impact of COVID -19 did not significantly change our water consumption in 2020 for our environmental 
reporting purposes.  
 
The following impacts were considered for this report:  
• Edwards global manufacturing plants continued to operate as essential businesses  in all of the countries in 
which we operate in order to provide necessary medical devices to our customers and patients; specifically, our Critical Care products were essential for the treatment and care of COVID -19 affected patients 
throughout the world.  
• Manufacturing operations and our Irvine headquarters represents about 75% of our headcount and 90% of 
our water consumption; neither were significantly changed year over year impacts of COVID -19 restrictions.  
• Although most of our nonmanufacturing employees worked from home or telecommuted much of the year, the impact at our plants was minimal as the majority of water is used to maintain manufacturing operations 
and not for day -to-day employee hygiene and consumption.  
• For our global workforce outside of manufacturing plants, we estimated an increase of water consumption based on an increase in headcount growth.  For EHS reporting, we assumed that employees continued to consume 50 liters per workday, regardless if they telecommuted or were physically present at our sites.  The 
total represents less than 10% of Edwards global water consumption and any impact from COVID -19, 
therefore, is relatively insignificant to our global reporting.  
 
 
Management Approach  
GRI 10 3, GRI 303- 1 
The scope of Edwards’ water management program covers  our areas of  operati onal control and includes all owned and 
leased locations across the globe,  including all manufacturing locations , non-manufacturing regional offices  and 
individuals working remotely in the field.  Our approach towards managing water and effluents is consis tent with our 
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  21 overall EHS  management  approach of Plan- Do-Check -Act, continual improvement, governance and assignment of 
roles and responsibilities discussed earlier in the Introduction: Management Approach and EHS Compliance sections of 
this Report .  Annually, each manufacturing plant assesses its water -related aspects and impacts and incorporates 
appropriate water conservation and protection objectives into annual  operating and capital investment  plans.  At a 
companywide level, we continually assess our water -related risks  which include higher cost of water, water shortages  
and rationing, fluctuations in water quality  and unreliable water delivery in the case of drought or other climate- related 
changes.   We then assess opportunities to mitigate these risk s and reduce our overall environmental impact.  Specific 
to water, we have identified the opportunity to reduce water consumption through the installation of water -efficient 
facility design (including LEED certified buildings) , equipment and fixtures , installation of  recycl ing or reuse systems 
where possible, partner ing with local utility providers on water recycling programs  and utilizing drought tolerant plants 
and xeriscape design in our landscape and garden areas.    
Our water  target is based upon an evaluation of past performance, risks and opportunities  and benchmarking against 
peer companies in our  medical device industry.  As Edwards continues to rapidly grow, we have chosen to set a 
normalized water target  based upon annual revenue.  
Compared to general industry and our medical device peers, Edwards does not require a significant amount of water i n 
our manufacturing operations or processes, nor does Edwards store a significant amount of water onsite at any of our 
global locations , with the exception of emergency fire sprinkler water reservoirs and tanks .  Instead, the majority of 
water used at Edwards facilities is for manufacturing employee handwashing, personal consumption, cafeteria and 
restroom use, landscaping,  and facilities equipment support.  Process water is used at some manufacturing facilities for 
production- related equipment and tooling,  washing and chemical solutions dilution.   
For reporting purposes, Edwards compiles water use data for our global manufacturing plants through review of utility 
provider invoices, purchase records, on‐ site logs, water permit records and/or monitoring devi ce records.   On the 
average, Edwards manufacturing locations , including our corporate headquarters in Irvine,  use approximately 16 0 to 
170 liters of water per day per employee.  Our method for estimating water use at each of our  non-manufacturing office 
locations and by remote field personnel  is based upon employee headcount and an assumption that each employee 
uses approximately 5 0 liters of water per workday for personal hygiene and consumption,  over a period of 260 
workdays per year.   Based on records and estimation factors, we have adopted a 0.90 confidence level in reporting of 
our water data.  
Edwards has openly reported our water management practices and metrics  through CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure 
Project) since 2014.   These public reports may be found at www.cdp.net . 
Water Withdrawal  
GRI 303- 3 
In 2020, Edwards water withdrawal was  573,020 cubic meters .  Across Edwards, 85% of our water is provided by third-
party  public utility providers.   The rema ining water is sourced from a variety of on- site and off -site sources.   
In addition to receiving water from the public utility, our 
Singapore manufacturing plant receiv es 46% of its water from 
the Singapore government ’s NEWater systems.  NEWater is 
high- grade reclaimed water produced from used water 
treated with UV disinfection and advanced membrane technologies.  NEWater is ultra- clean and safe to drink.   
Currently, Singapore’s NEWater treatment plants can now 
meet up to 40- 50% of the country’s water needs.   By 2060, 
NEWater is expected to meet up to 55% of Singapore’s future 
water demand.    Edwards is proud to partner with Singapore 
to utilize this breakthrough and effective technology to 
provide 12% of Edwards’  total water supply.    
At our Puerto Rico manufacturing plant, approximately 3 6% 
of water comes from on- site wells.  This well water comprises 
approximately 3% of our global wat er withdrawal.    
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  22 At our Irvine Headquarters, we have installed various landscaping strategies to reduce water consumption, including 
smart irrigation systems and a commitment to drought tolerant xeriscape plantings.   Not only does this reduce our need 
for water irrigation, but also provides a campus environment consistent with Southern California’s Mediterranean 
climate and natural chaparral.  
  
Xeriscaping with drought tolerant plants at our Irvine manufacturing  
and newly opened Dream Big technology and R&D center  
Water Recycling  
Our Dominican Republic manufacturing plant operates an onsite wastewater treatment and reclamation plant .  Prior to 
its installation, much of the business park’s wastewater was discharged to the sanitary sewer with limited treatment.  
Now, in addition to treating our discharge water, the wastewater treatment plant allows us to collect and recycle up to 30% of the treated wastewater for reuse in our restrooms  and other non- potable water applications .  In 2020, recycled 
water from the treatment plant totaled 3,200 cubic meters  and 4% of the manufacturing plant’s water  use.  Globally, this 
translates to about a 1% contribution towards our overall  water sourc ed.  In the future, we expect this contribution to 
continue to increase by several times .  Water recycled from our Dominican Republic wastewater treatment plant helps 
us meet our water use needs without withdrawing additional water from the natural environment.   
Additionally, several of our global locations have facilities equipment and landscaping systems which reuse water.  For example, our Costa Rica manufacturing plant has installed systems to collect, filter and reprocess chiller water for repeat use.  At our Irvine, California headquarters, water used to irrigate our Living Wall is collected in an underground tank, treated and recycled to minimize water withdrawal for irrigation.  
 
Our signature Living Wall at our Irvine Headquarter s 
Excess landscaping water  is reclaimed, processed and reused 
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  23 Our Central Park is laid with artificial turf to reduce water consumption and overall maintenance  
 
For consistent reporting and accounting purposes, r ecycled wastewater is not included in our water withdrawal total  but 
is counted towards our water use metrics.      
Water  Use 
GRI 303- 5 
In 2020, Edwards used 576,220 cubic meters of water.  This represents an absolute increase of 5% over prior year, and 
an increase of 50% over our 2015 baseline year .  Since 2015, Edwards  has grown in size and revenue faster than we 
have increased our water use.  When normalized 
by annual revenue, Edwards has reduced water 
use from 154 to 131 cubic meters per $1,000,000 
sales revenue from our baseline year .  This is 
equivalent to a normalized reduction of 15%  since 
2015, which is exactly the target we established in our 2016 to 2020 EHS Strategic Plan.  We believe 
that, when measured against  revenue,  our water 
use is about 40% less than our industry peers.    
Our average water cost has increased from $1. 84 
to about $1.93 per 1,000 liters  from 2015  to 2020 
due to inflation and local pricing structures .  
Despite this increase in water cost,  overall impact 
of our year -over-year reduction in water use 
intensity  has been approximately $596,000 in water  cost avoidance from 2016 to 2020.   
Water use reduction efforts at Edwards have 
focused  primarily on incorporating water -efficient equipment and 
landscaping into our facility design and construction projects.  This includes  the installation of low -flow appliances and 
fixtures  (waterless urinals, low flush toilets, hands free sinks, smart irrigation systems) , use of air -cooled chillers in place 
of cooling towers  and drought -tolerant 
landscaping in water -stressed regions .  We also 
incorporate low water xeriscaping strategies for 
the landscaping at our Irvine headquarters , Utah 
manufacturing site and some of our other  global 
locations.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water -Stressed Regions  
According to the World  Resources Institute ( WRI) Aqueduct, a global water risk -mapping tool, only our Irvine, California 
manufacturing plant and corporate headquarters is located in a “high” water stressed region.  In 2020, this tota l water 
withdrawal and total water use at this site was 183,256 cubic meters , with 100% of the water sourced from  a third-party 
public utility.   This represents a reduction of 21,495 cubic meters, or 10%, from 2019 to 2020.  
Our Draper, Utah manufacturing plant is located in a “low -medium” water stressed region.  The remaining 
manufacturing sites are located in “low” stress regions or areas where water stress data is not available.   
Most of our global non- manufacturing locations are small office spaces whic h serve fewer than 50 people.  While 
regional office water use, in global aggregate, is considered a material reporting topic, we do not report individual office 
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  24 water withdrawal and use in relation to local water stress levels.  This is because water use volumes for each individual 
site are very low.  Instead, we assume water consumption of 5 0 liters per day per person for our nonmanufacturing 
locations.  This ensures that our public reporting of water withdrawal is as accurate as feasibly possible.  
 Irvin e, CA  Draper, UT  Dominican 
Republic  Puerto Rico  Costa Rica  Ireland  Singapore  
Water Stress 
Level  High  Low-Medium  Low Not Available  Low Low Not Available  
2020 Water 
Withdrawal (m3) 183,256  32,229  66,498  52,879  45,963  72 145,245  
2020 Water Use 
(m3) 183,256  32,229  69,698  52,879  45,963  72 145,245  
 
Water Discharges  
Water quality discharge requirements at each Edwards site is  determined by local regulations and discharge limits.  
While we do not consolidate water discharge data at a companywide level, the Global EHS team ensures our sites meet 
applicable limits for discharges through periodic audits.  Parameters of concern inc lude toxics, pH, total organic 
compounds, particulate matter, oil and grease and other  potential  contaminants .   
We do not discharge to any open lakes, rivers, reservoirs,  or other fresh water sources.  In most cases, discharges to 
the sanitary sewer are r egulated through general or source- specific permits issued by the local water agency.  
Monitoring devices , automatic gate valves  and alarm systems are also installed as needed to ensure compliance with 
local requirements  and industry best practice.  For mo re information on industrial wastewater discharges, see the 
Effluents and Waste section of this Report.  
Edwards does not conduct industrial operations in outdoor , storm water -exposed areas.  All three of our US facilities in 
California, Utah and Puerto Rico are covered under No Exposure Certificates (NECs) in accordance with the 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)  Clean Water Act.  In addition, structural and non- structural source control best 
management practices (BMPs) are employed at each of our facilities to prevent contamination of storm water.  These BMPs include common area landscape management and litter control, regular inspection of catch basins, parking lot 
sweeping and maintenance, garbage dumpster coverage, secondary containment for chemical use and storage areas, 
spill and high- level alarm systems for fuel and oil -based equipment, employee training and labeling of storm drains.  
Additionally, low impa ct development (LID) and treatment control BMPs are incorporated into any new construction 
projects.  LID and treatment control BMPs include installation of stormwater treatment units, bioretention planters and bioswales  which filter storm water prior to discharge to the environment .      
 
  
Pictured are just some of the low impact development and treatment control best management practices employed at our Irvine, California headquarters.  Storm 
water controls are intended to remove potential pollutants such as metals, pesticides, nutrients and other organics from the rainwater and landscaping irrigation 
which falls onto our Corporate campus and drains to the nearby Newport Bay and Sand Diego Creek watersheds.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  25 Biodiversity  
Impact to Biodiversity from COVID -19 in 2020:  
 
None 
 
Management Approach  
GRI 103  
At Edwards, we respect biodiversity by minimizing environmental impacts from our operations  and encouraging our 
employees t o work with our communities to enhance the health of our local ecosystems.   Biodiversity is not considered 
by our external or internal stakeholders to be a material topic  for Edwards.  Nevertheless, we consider the risk and 
potential impact on local ecosystems when making key decisions regarding our facilities and manufacturing operations .  
Impacts on Biodiversity  
GRI 30 4-1, GRI 304-2 
No Edwards owned or leased facilities are located in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value, according to 
the World Database of Protected Areas compiled by  the UN Environment World Conservation Monitoring Centre.   We 
currently operate seven manufacturing sites in five  different countries  and over 100 regional offices throughout the 
world .  Each of our manufacturing sites is located in clean industrial or mixed‐ use areas adequately provided with 
infrastructure capacities which help us limit our environmental impacts; including such items as clean drinking water, 
wastewater treatment plants, access  to air pollution control technologies, mass transportation,  clean fuel sources and 
appropriate waste disposal options.  Two of these sites are located in international trade‐ zone industrial parks which 
typically host a variety of other non‐ national companies and are controlled to a cleaner extent than their neighboring 
communities.   Our other five  sites are located in industrial parks or mixed industrial/residential areas and are thereby 
obligated to manage their environmental aspects  appropriately .  
As part of our ISO  14001 environmental management system strategy , manufacturing plants r outinely  assess  their 
environmental  aspects and impacts  with respect to local biodiversity .  From this assessment, plants then establish 
specific and measurable environmental objectives to reduce their significant impacts.  Progress towards achieving 
objectives is monitored at regular intervals and reported to senior management.  
Habitats Protected or Restored  
GRI 30 4-3 
While there are no Edwards locations located in habitat protected areas nor subject to habitat restoration, our 
employees volunteer in habitat reforestation and other community outreach activities in order to enhance our local habitats and help strengthen our  communities.   More information on our community outreach activities can be found in 
the Community Engagement  section of this Report  and the Volunteerism & Giving section of the 2020 Edwards 
Sustainability Report .  
 
 
 
 
 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  26 Emissions  
2016 -2020 Target  2016 -2020 Performance  
 Maintain 0% change in greenhouse gas emissions , 
normalized by annual revenue  Target achieved  
16% reduction  
Additional metrics including 5 -year historical results are available in the Data Summary section of this Report.  
Impact to GHG and Air Toxic Emissions from COVID -19 in 2020:  
 
In general, the impact of COVID -19 did not significantly change our GHG and air toxic emissions in 2020 for our 
environmental reporting purposes.  
 
The following impacts were considered for this report:  
• Edwards global manufacturing plants continued to operate as essential businesses  in all of the countries in 
which we operate in order to provide necessary medical devices to our customers and patients; specifically, 
our Critical Care products were essential for the treatment and care of COVID -19 affected patients 
throughout the world.  
• Manufacturing operations and our Irvine headquarters represents about 90% of our reported Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions and 100% of our reported air toxic emissions.  
• For Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from our non- manufacturing regional offices, we assumed that all sites 
operated at 100% capacity with regards to energy consumption and GHG emissions.  
• Although most of our nonmanufacturing employees worked from home or telecommuted much of the year, 
we presumed 100% of our employees reported to work for the purposes of reporting Scope 3 emissions related to employee commuting of GHG emissions outside of the organization.  
• Due to restrictions on business travel by air or train, our Scope 3 emissions related to business commuting 
reduced almost 70%  as reported by our corporate travel provider.  
 
Management Approach  
GRI 103  
Edwards is committed to reducing adverse air emissions resulting from all aspects of our  business.  The scope of our  
emissions management  program covers our areas of operational control and incl udes all owned and leased locations 
across the globe, including all manufacturing locations and non- manufacturing regional offices.  Additionally, Edwards 
measures emissions generated outside of our organization which result from  business travel and employ ee commuting.   
Specifically, four categories of emissions  are considered for reporting purposes:    
• Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions from direct energy used within our organization.  
• Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions from indirect energy  used within our organization.  
• Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions from energy used for business travel and employee commuting.  
• Other significant or toxic air emissions  including o zone- depleting substances  (ODS) , Nitrogen oxides (N Ox), 
Sulphur oxides ( SOx), particulate matter (PM) and hazardous air pollutants , including ethylene oxide (EO) . 
Our approach towards managing e missions is consistent with our overall EHS management approach of Plan- Do-
Check -Act, continual improvement, governance and assignment of roles and responsibilities discussed earlier in the 
Introduction: Management Approach and EHS Compliance sections of this Repor t.  At a companywide level, we 
continually assess our emissions -related risks, which include potential costs and taxes related to greenhouse gas 
emissions, additional regulatory obligations, stakeholder dissatisfaction and damage to Edwards reputation and impacts 
from short -term and long- term climate change.  We then assess opportunities to mitigate these risks and reduce our 
overall environmental impact.  Specific  to emissions,  we have opportunity to reduce our energy intensity across the 
organization and shift  towards renewable energy sources , engage in transparent and public reporting of environmental 
data, and develop robust business continuity and emergency preparedness plans .  We are also focused on ens uring 
effective air pollution treatment controls for manufacturing processes which generate pollutants of concern, such as 
ethylene oxide used for our medical device sterilization process.  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  27 Our emissions target is based upon an evaluation of past performance, risks and opportunities, as well as 
benchmarking against peer companies in the medical device industry.  As Edwards continues to rapidly grow, we have chosen to set a normalized emissions  target based upon annual revenue.  Edwards is specifically  focus ed on reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions .  Approximately 90% of our Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions are generated from  our seven global manufacturing sites .  For this reason, we track 
and manage our energy and emissions at each manufacturing plant closely.  Annually , each manufacturing plant 
assesses its energy  and emissions -related aspects and impacts and incorporates appropriate energy conservation and 
emissions reduction objectives into annual operating and capital investment  plans .   
For greenhouse gas reporting, Edwards follows the accounting principles outlined in The Greenhouse Gas  (GHG)  
Protocol  Corporate Standard and GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.   The m ethods for c ollecting energy data, which 
serve as the basis for Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas reporting,  is described in the Energy section of this Report.  
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions are calculated using both location- based and market -based methods.   For the 
purpose of reporting against our current emissions target, Edwards uses location- based data.  Edwards does not use 
offsets when calculating greenhouse gas emissions.  
Information on the specific emissions factors used to calculate our greenhouse gas emissions is  detailed in the Data 
Summary section of this Report.   Based on our methodology, we assume a confidence level of 0.95 in reporting of our 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions.  Additionally, our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse data has undergone an external assurance process, provided by Apex  Companies, LLC.   A verification statement is included at 
the end of this Report.     
Edwards has openly reported our emissions management practices and metrics in through CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2014.   These public reports may be found at www.cdp.net .  
Scope 1 & 2 G reenhouse Gas Emissions  
GRI 305-1, 305- 2, 305- 4 
In 2020, Edwards Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions from our global manufacturing and non- manufacturing 
locations totaled 46,262 MT CO2e.  Approximately 70% of this was Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity.  T he 
remaining 30% was Scope 1 emissions  generated from onsite use of fossil fuels  at our manufacturing and non-
manufacturing locations.  This represents an absolute increase in greenhouse gas emissions  of 11% over prior year 
and an increase of 48% over our 2015 baseline year.   
  
Since 2015, Edwards has grown in size and revenue much faster than we have increased our greenhouse gas emissions use.  When normalized by annual revenue, Edwards’ greenhouse gas  intensity has reduced by  16% since 
2015.  This result beats our five- year 0% change target.  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  28 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emis sions 
GRI 30 5-3 
Edwards’ Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions  reporting covers 
emissions from b usiness travel and personal  commuting.  
Business travel includes employees traveling for the purpose of 
work  by air or rail .  Personal commuting includes employee daily 
travel to and from the normal workplace.  Daily mileage logged 
by our sales teams and field- based clinicians is included in our 
employee commuting data.  For more information on methodology used to collect travel and commuting data, see the Energy  section of this Report.   While Edwards has programs in 
place to support the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from Scope 3 sources, we have not adopted formal reduction 
targets in this category.   
In 2020, our S cope 3 greenhouse gas em issions f or busi ness travel and personal co mmuting totaled 31,263 MT C O2e 
which represents a 40% decr ease in emissions f rom t he prior ye ar.  This i mpact  is a result of COVID -19 restrictions on 
air travel i n the global r egions i n which we operate, accounting for a reduction from 51, 550 in 2019 to only  31,263 MT 
CO2e in 2020.    
In 2021 and beyond, w e expect  to see a continued decline of G HG em issions (when compared to employee commuting 
and revenue) with increased participation i n energy- efficient e mployee commuting alternatives such as bus,  train and 
vanpool r idership and the use of hyb rid and electric ve hicles.   For m ore information on this t opic,  see the Energy section 
of this R eport. 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reductions 
GRI 305-5 
Our reduction in greenhouse gas em issions i ntensity ca n be attributed to increases i n renewable energy and 
incremental i mprovements i n energy ef ficiency  at m ost of our gl obal m anufacturing plants.  More information on specific 
2020 projects and progress  in this ar ea is i ncluded in t he Energy section of t his R eport.    
One of t he key i nitiatives dr iving Edwards’  renewable energy and energy ef ficiency  gains is our approach to facility 
design and construction.  Edwards has i mplemented a robust , global co nstruction strategy which ensures t hat a ll new 
and renovated buildings are constructed in a manner w hich minimizes envi ronmental impact, i ncluding greenhouse  gas 
emissions.   This appr oach began in t he mid -2010’s,  with improvements and expansions t o our I rvine headquarters,  and 
continues w ith momentum i nto the construction of our tw o newest  manufacturing plants  in Costa Rica and Ireland, a s 
well as adding solar panel s to our cu rrent si te in the Dominican Republic and installing more so lar panels at our multi -
building expansion project  currently underway at our Irvine headquarters.    
Part of our gl obal co nstruction strategy includes  pursuing L eadership in Energy  and Environmental D esign (LEED ) 
certification whenever f easible.  To gain LEED certification, E dwards has i ncorporated sustainable design principles into 
our bui ldings i ncludi ng sustainable site selection, ener gy efficient l ighting power and controls,  ener gy-efficient 
equipment and appliances,  renewable energy sources,  low-emitting materials,  alternative transportation provisions,  
recycled materials,  water use  reduction measures,  and enhanced commissioning.  In the past  five years,  Edwards has 
received LEED ce rtification for two major co nstructi on projects and plans  to pursue LEED certification for three 
additional pr ojects in 2021 or early  2022.  These projects were originally sch eduled for ce rtification in early 2021, 
however, r estrictions i mposed due to COVID -19 by l ocal g overnments on construction projects del ayed our 
certifications f or appr oximately si x months.     
Location  Project  Level  Year  
Irvine, CA  “Life is Now Center”  administrative building  Gold  2016  
Irvine, CA  Starr Atrium  Platinum  2017 
Irvine, CA  “Dream Big  Complex ” R&D and administrative buildings  Planned 202 1/2022  
Costa Rica  New manufacturing facility  Planned 202 1/2022  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  29 Limerick  New manufacturing facility  Planned 202 1/2022  
Ozone -Depleting Substances  
GRI 305- 6 
Edwards has eliminated all o zone‐ depleting substances (ODS) from our manufacturing operations, including Freon 
previously used for cleaning and degreasing of products.   Although we still use ODS in some of our air ‐conditioning 
systems, including R ‐22, R ‐134A and R ‐410A, we have processes to leak test each unit, recover any spent ODS during 
maintenance and report emissions to our local air quality management agencies.   In 2020, our Puerto Rico facility 
replaced three older R -22 air conditioning systems with a single, new ODS -free air handling unit and chiller.  
Because our global emissions of ODS are minimal we do not consider them material nor significant to our air emissions 
reduction efforts . It is estimated that no more than 25 kilograms  of ODS is emitted  annually from all of our locations 
worldwide. As Edwards  leases most of our global  non-manufacturing locations, we are not able to control  or track  the 
ODS usage for  air handling equipment in these office buildings.  
Other Significant Air Emissions  
GRI 305- 7 
We track hazardous air pollutants and toxic 
emissions from manufacturing processes and facilities  equipment including nitrogen oxides 
(NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), reactive organic gases (ROGs or VOCs) and air toxi cs, such as 
ethylene oxide.   Many of our manufacturing 
locations  report air emissions annually to 
government agencies  as required by local 
regulation.  Emissions calculations and reporting are verified by Global EHS during periodic audits  
to ensure accurac y and compliance with permits 
and local limits .  We also install air pollution 
control equipment where it is available and technologically feasible, such as installing catalytic convertors on emergency generators, 
dust collectors in machine shops and treat ment systems for our sterilization operations.
 
We calculate NOx, S Ox, ROG/VOC, PM, and CO based on combustion of direct energy sources at our manufacturing 
facilities.  Although our manufacturing room isopropyl alcohol cleaning processes generate fugitive VOC emissions, we 
do not include fugitive VOC emissions in our companywide data at this time.  How ever, individual locations report their 
site VOC fugitive emissions as necessary to their local government air quality management agencies.   We assume a 
0.90 confidence level for the hazardous air pollutant emissions reported.   
In 2020, air emissions rema ined relatively the same as in 2019.  This can be attributed directly to our consistent year -
over-year manufacturing activity and output for 2020.    
Ethylene Oxide Emissions  
At our Puerto Rico facility, we perform EO  sterilization  for both Edwards and non- Edwards medical device products .  
Our EO sterilizer operates under stringent US OSHA  and EPA regulations to protect our  employees, neighbors and 
local environment.   We treat or neutralize over 99% of all of the EO  processed at our facility prior to discharge to the 
atmosphere.   We have also installed a c ontinuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) to measure EO  output on an 
ongoing basis and provide alarms or warnings if EO  levels  become a concern.   As required by regulation, t he 
effectiveness of our contr ol technology is verified by the local environmental agency  at regular intervals, and whenever 
changes in the equipment occur.  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  30 In 2020, Edwards had no EO emissions 
exceedances.  In 2020, EO emissions were 
reduced 39% over the prior year  primarily  as a 
result of improving our EO treatment efficiency rate to from 99.6% to 99.8% year over year.  The 
increase in pollution control efficiency was 
primarily due to infrastructure improvements 
made in ventilation systems and m ore effective 
methods to capture EO emissions.  We also had a decline of EO overall usage of 3% which is attributed to both changing business demand as 
well as a deliberate decision to transfer some medical device product families to alternative 
methods of  sterilization, which eliminates the 
need for EO  sterilization.  Further improvements 
are planned in 2021  to capture and treat fugitive 
emissions, as well improve our sterilization cycle 
efficiency.   We are also developing strategies to improve our on- site and contracted offsite EO sterilization cycles in 
order to sterilize our products using reduced EO volumes per sterilization or pallet cycle.  
Since our baseline of 2015, we have reduced overall EO usage by 49%  and absolute emissions by 84 %.  
Climate Risk  
Edwards  identif ies and assesses  climate -related risks as part of  an integrated approach to managing overall business 
risk.  Edwards has  established an Enterprise Risk Council  to guide the company risk management strategy .  Led by our 
Vice President of Risk Management and comprised of key executive and senior leaders, t he Council m eets quarterly to 
conduct  a systematic review  and mitigation planning for strategic, operational, financial, regulatory, cybersecurity and 
climate -change risks .  The Council periodically  reports strategy, key findings,  and progress directly to the Edwards 
Board of Directors  in accordance with Task Force on Climate- related Financial Disclosures ( TCFD ) recommendations .  
Additionally, Edwards’ property insurer –  a global leader in resiliency engineering and business continuity –  periodically 
assesses each of Edwards manufacturing sites to help identify opportunities for continued property enhancements that 
help protect from climate- related risks.          
   
In assessing climate -related risk s, Edwards conducts formal analysis of the likelihood, potential consequence and 
required response related to various climate change impacts.   In this assessment, Edwards considers both transition 
and physical risks.  Through risk analysis, the following areas  have been determined to be of particular interest and 
materiality to Edwards:  
 
Category  Climate -Related Risk  Potential Impact to Edwards  
Regulations & 
Policy  • Increased pricing, taxes, cost 
of greenhouse gas emissions  
• Enhanced emissions reporting 
obligations  
• Litigation exposure  Edwards considers the risk of current and emerging regulations  to be 
relevant.  This includes t he cost associated with enhanced regulatory 
reporting obligations, additional regulatory r equirements for Edwards 
products and services, and potential carbon tax.   For example, in California, 
the enactment of Assembly Bill 32,  California Global Warming Solutions Act 
of 2006 set a goal  to reduce statewide  greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 
levels  by 2020 and to 80% below 1990 levels by  2050.   Legislation such as 
AB 32 has the potential to impact the cost of compliance for Edwards.  
Impacts from the Paris Agreement may also create additional regulatory 
obligations and cost for Edwards global operat ions.    
Technology  • Substitution of existing 
processes and distribution 
channels for lower emissions 
technologies  
• Costs to transition to lower 
emissions technologies  
• Opportunities to explore renewable energy sources and 
agreements with utility 
providers  Edwards considers the impact of technology the be relevant, as we continue 
to invest in technologies which contribute towards our reduced carbon 
footprint.  This includes both the replacement of current equipment with 
lower emissions options, suc h as our installation of our cogeneration plant in 
Puerto Rico, as well as the cost to transition to lower emissions technologies, such as installation of solar panels which is aligned with our 
commitment to renewable energy and low -environmental impact 
construction strategies.    
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  31 Market  • Changing customer 
preferences during tender 
bidding process  
• Increased demands from 
investors and stakeholders  
• Uncertain conditions in global 
markets  
• Decreases in reliability of 
supply chain needs and 
requirements  Edwards considers changes in global and local markets to be relevant.  Of 
specific interest are increased cost for raw materials and increased 
demands from investors and stakeholders to meet s ustainability 
performance expectations.  Cost of raw materials has impact on both direct 
materials used in manufacturing, as well as fuel costs which impact energy 
generation, supply chain distribution and employee transportation.      
Reputation  • Impacts of community and 
public perceptions  
• Increased internal and external 
stakeholder interests or 
concerns  Edwards considers our reputation and public image to be highly relevant, 
especially in regard to our products and patient safety.  As s tated in our 
Credo and company Aspirations, we strive to be a “trusted partner” to our 
stakeholders and local communities.  Undesirable environmental events or 
performance would have a negative impact on our reputation and business.  
Acute Weather 
Change  • Increases in severity or 
frequency of extreme weather 
events  
• Impacts from unreliable utilities  Edwards considers acute weather changes such as extreme weather events 
and changing precipitation levels to be relevant.  This risk is especially 
relevant  to Edwards locations located in the Caribbean region, which 
encounter seasonal  tropical storms and hurricanes.   
Chronic Weather 
Change  • Impacts from changes in 
precipitation patterns or 
general weather cycles  
• Impacts of rising temperatures 
and sea levels  Edwards considers chronic weather changes such as increased global air 
and sea temperatures to be relevant.  This pertains specifically to the potential for water scarcity in water -stressed regions where Edwards 
facilities are located, as well as increased  risk of wildfire which may impact 
the supply chain.  
 
 Edwards address es and mitigates these climate -related risk s through a variety of approaches : 
Environmental Targets :  As part of our overall Sustainability strategy, Edwards sets  short and long- term 
environmental targets and objectives to drive improvement s in climate -risk areas.  Edwards ’ timeframes for 
short and long- term target  timeframes set in consideration with TCFD recommendations.   Long- term targets 
typically span five to seven years , in alignment with Edwards’ strategic planning cycle, and are set at the 
companywide level.  These targets cover the climate- related topics of  energy  consumption, greenhouse gas  
emissions  and water use.  Progress towards meeting long -term targets is reported to Edwards leadership, 
Board of Directors  and the public  annually.   Short -term environmental objectives, which span one to two years  
and support Edwards’ long- term targets , are established at the site level  based upon locally relevant aspects , 
impacts, risks and opportunities .  Progress toward s meeting short -term objectives  is reported through site 
leadership at regular intervals throughout the year.   Financial incentives are provided to Edwards managem ent 
for achieving Sustainability and climate- related targets.  
EHS Management System :  Edwards has established EHS management systems consistent with the ISO 
14001 and ISO  45001 management system s at each of our global  manufacturing locations.  As part of these 
management system s, each location evaluates environmental risks and opportunities  at a site- level every year .  
This risk analysis helps establish site-level EHS objective- setting and business continuity planning.   For more 
information on our ISO  14001 and ISO  45001 management systems , refer to the Compliance section of this 
Report.    
Business Continuity Planning:   All Edwards major manufacturing and office locations have established 
business continuity plans .  These plans are intended to ensure operational resiliency in the event of a natural or 
manmade disaster.   Plans are reviewed and revised on a periodic  basis, and proactive measures are taken to 
ensure adequate processes, equipment and provisions are in place to both prevent and respond to various 
emergency scenarios.   For example, emergency generators have been installed at all Edwards manufacturing 
plants  to prevent business disruption in the event of a power f ailure.  In areas where severe storms or 
hurricanes are a threat, equipment is secured to rooftops and facility drainage patterns are assessed and improved to prevent flooding.   Edwards also conducts  tabletop reviews at eac h facility on a periodic basis to 
test and improve emergency procedures and communication plans.    
Property  Risk Assessment :  Through our property loss prevention provider, risk modeling for all of our global 
manufacturing locations  is completed.   Third -party physical reviews of each manufacturing plant are conducted 
on a periodic risk -based schedule, and preparedness and prevention measures are implemented, as 
recommended by our property  loss prevention provider.  For example, in our Caribbean locations, the risk of Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  32 extreme weather events  such as hurricanes is determined to be significant.  Therefore, we have made 
substantial improvements t o our roofing structures, window shutters , loading dock doors and outside equipment 
in order to prevent or reduce potential damage to our facilities.   Our property  loss prevention provider also 
provides Edwards with guidance on emergency action plans , in order to ensure robust procedures are in place 
to manage emergencies.   
Through these targeted programs , which are ongoing and based upon continual improvement, Edwards assesses and 
takes action to mitigate risk from a variety of natural and manmade disaster scenarios including, but not limited to 
climate -related events.  In accordance with TCFD rec ommendations, a summary of location specific risks and 
implemented controls is included in the table below.   
Event  Edwards Location  Risk/Opportunity  Prepare dness & Prevention Activities  
Earthquake  Dominican Republic; 
Draper, UT; Irvine, 
CA; Puerto Rico  Structural damage, equipment 
damage, utility outage, loss of 
production, employee safety  Fire sprinkler bracing , automatic gas valve shutoff, 
seismic building design, equipment bracing, emergency 
generators, employee notification systems and plans, 
business recovery plans  
Tropical Storm/ 
Hurricane  Dominican Republic; 
Puerto Rico  Structural damage, water damage, 
utility outage, loss of production, 
employee safety  Storm -resistant building and equipment design, 
emergency generators, cogeneration plant, storm 
monitoring, employee notification systems and plans, 
business recovery plans  
Winter Storm  Draper, UT  Water damage, utility outage, loss 
of production, employee safety  Emergency generators, storm monitoring, employee 
notification systems and plans , business recovery plans  
Flood  Costa Rica; Draper, 
UT; Puerto Rico  Water damage, loss of production, 
employee safety  Stormwater runoff design, emergency generators, 
employee notification systems and plans, business 
recovery plans  
Drought / 
Wildfire  Irvine, CA; Puerto 
Rico; Singapore  Water sanctions, structural 
damage, equipment damage, 
utility outage, loss of production, 
employee safety  Water conservation strategies , water reuse systems , 
fire-resistant building materials , fire monitoring, 
employee notification systems and plans, business 
recovery plans  
Volcano  Costa Rica  Structural damage, equipment 
damage, utility outage, loss of 
production  Fire sprinkler bracing, automatic gas valve shutoff, 
seismic building design, equipment bracing, emergency 
generators, employee notification systems and plans, 
business recovery plans  
 
As Edwards continues to assess and address climate- related risks, we also recognize opportunities which have 
emerged.  Climate- related opportunities vary depending on the region and market.  A summary of these opportunities is 
below.  
 
Category  Climate -Related Opportunity  Potential Impact to Edwards  
Resource 
Efficiency  • Use of more efficient modes of 
transportation for employees  
• Use of more efficient modes 
and strategies for distribution 
of products  
• Transition to more efficient 
buildings, equipment and 
production activities  
• Reduced water consumption  Edwards is committed to embracing opportunities to better use resources 
wherever technologically and financially feasible.  We have made 
measurable improvement in our investment in renewable energy, onsite 
cogeneration of electricity and heat, packaging reduction and treatment and 
reuse of  wastewater.  We have also implemented a construction strategy 
which focuses on low -environmental impact and LEED certification.  The 
overall outcome of these efforts is reduced cost, increased employee 
satisfaction and enhanced reputation.  
Energy Source  • Use of lower -emission energy 
sources  
• Onsite energy generation  
• Implementation of new 
technologies  
 Edwards embraces opportunities to improve the reliability of our energy and 
increase renewable energy use, as evidenced by our LEED certification, 
onsite solar energy systems, cogeneration and utility provider partnerships.  
Our newest manufacturing plants in Costa Rica and Ireland receive almost 
100% of their electricity from renewable energy sources.  The overall 
outcome of these efforts is reduced cos t, increased employee satisfaction 
and enhanced reputation.  
Products & 
Services  • Use of more efficient modes 
and strategies for distribution 
of products  Edwards’ medical device products have low energy demand, and therefore 
little opportunity to reduce environmental impacts in this area.  However, we 
have initiated new measures in our distribution strategy to provide our 
products to global customers through more efficient ocean and air delivery 
methods.  The overall outcome of this effort is reduced cost.  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  33 Markets  • Participation in government 
incentive programs  
• Access to new assets and 
locations  Edwards has arranged with local governments to help source and offset the 
installation cost of various renewable energy (solar) and water conservation 
systems.  Our proven environmental record and demonstrated commitment 
to low environmental -impact construction has also resulted in financial 
benefits throug h various grants or tax subsidies.  The overall outcome of 
these efforts is reduced cost, increased employee satisfaction and 
enhanced reputation.  
Resilience  • Onsite energy generation  
• Participation in renewable 
energy programs  Edwards is committed to increasing resilience through our ongoing efforts to 
improve energy efficiency and increase renewable energy, as evidenced by 
our LEED certification, onsite solar and cogeneration systems and 
incremental improvements in energy intensity year over year.  Currently, we 
are also exploring opportunities to participate in “green” energy programs 
through our utility providers.   
 
Waste  & Effluents  
2016 -2020 Target  2016 -2020 Performance  
 Achieve 20% reduction in hazardous waste  disposal , 
normalized by annual revenue  Target not met  
26% increase  due to new processes and validation  
 Achieve 20% reduction in non -hazardous waste 
disposal , normalized by annual revenue  Target achieved  
21% reduction  
Additional metrics including 5 -year historical results are available in the Data Summary section of this Report.  
Impact to Waste & Effluents from COVID -19 in 2020:  
 
In general, the impact of COVID -19 did not significantly change our waste generation or ef fluent discharges in 2020 
for our environmental reporting purposes ; however, working- from- home impacted our office- related nonhazardous 
waste and recycling results.  
 The following impacts were considered for this report:  
• Edwards global manufacturing plants continued to operate as essential businesses  in all of the countries in 
which we operate in order to provide necessary medical devices to our customers and patients; specifically, our Critical Care products were essential for the treatment and care of COVID -19 affected patients 
throughout the world.  
• Manufacturing and our Irvine headquarters  operations  represent 100% of our reported waste generation.  
o Although nonmanufacturing regional offices generate nominal amounts of nonhazardous waste and 
recycling, the volumes are insignificant to our overall reporting of these environmental aspects and 
indicators.  
• Due to our aggressive physical distancing and work -from- home policies during COVID -19, our office- related 
waste generation and recycling was significantly reduced at our Irvine headquarters.  
 
Management Approach  
GRI 103  
The scope of Edwards’ effluent and waste management program covers our areas of operational control and includes 
effluents and waste from our seven global  manufacturing locations .  While we ensure responsible waste management  
at all non-manufacturing regional offices , the vast majority of waste generated by Edwards occurs at our manufacturing 
locations and so the focus of our programs and reporting is in these areas of operation.  The volumes of hazardous 
waste disposal from administrative and office buildings represents a very small portion of Edwards’ total hazardous waste generation and are not considered material to our overall environmental footprint.  However, each non-manufacturing site manages regulated waste, such as electronics, fluorescent lamps,  and batteries, in accordance with 
local r equirements and best management practices.   Non- manufacturing sites also implement non- hazardous waste Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  34 management  and recycling programs as appropriate for their location and lease arrangement s, as appropriate and 
feasible.  
Our approach towards managing e ffluents and waste is consistent with our overall EHS management approach of Plan-
Do-Check -Act, continual improvement, governance and assignment of roles and responsibilities discussed earlier in the 
Introduction: Management Approach and EHS Compliance sections of this Report.  Annually, each manufacturing plant 
assesses its effluent and waste- related aspects and impacts and incorporates appropriate waste reduction objectives 
into annual operating plans.  At a companywide level, we continually  assess our waste -related risks, which include 
higher waste disposal costs or  taxes, long- term liabilit ies associated with hazardous waste disposal , potential for 
transportation- related incidents, impact s on local habitats and depletion of natural resources.   We then assess  
opportunities to mitigate these risks and reduce our overall environmental impact.   Specific to effluents and waste, we  
have opportunity to eliminate, substitute, reuse, recycle and treat both hazardous and non -hazardous wastes.  
Our waste program is  focused on the monitoring and management of the following key aspects  and impacts : 
Wastewater Discharge Management:   Water quality discharge requirements at each Edwards site are 
determined by local regulations and discharge limits.  While we do not consolidate water discharge data at a 
companywide level, the Global EHS team ensures sites meet applicable limits for discharges through periodic 
audits.  Parameters of concern include toxics, pH, metals, total organic compounds, particulate mat ter, oil and 
grease and other  potential contaminants .  We do not discharge to any open lakes, rivers, reservoirs or other 
fresh water sources.  In most cases, discharges to the sanitary sewer are regulated through general or source-specific permits issued by the local water agency.  Monitoring devices, automatic gate valves and alarm 
systems are also installed as needed to ensure compliance with local requirements and industry best practice.  In our Haina, Dominican Republic plant we installed an onsite wastewater treatment plant to not only treat our 
discharges to meet or exceed government requirements, but also to reuse treated water in several of our non-potable water activities.  
• Edwards Puerto Rico was recognized by the Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority (PRASA) for 
Compliance Excellence for maintaining effective wastewater discharge controls and performance for 
year 2019 (due to COVID -19, actual award was received in 2021).  This is the highest recognition 
available from the regulatory authority.  
 
Hazardous Waste Management:   Hazardous waste is managed in accordance with Edwards global EHS 
standards as well as local government requirements.  This includes proper handling, labeling, storage, inspection,  and disposal.  Hazardous was te disposal is documented on appropriate manifest or bill -of-lading 
forms.   Our disposal and waste reduction methods include, in order of priority, elimination, reduction, recycling 
or reuse, waste- to-energy, incineration, treatment and landfill.  In most cases, our plants are regulated by 
hazardous waste disposal permits and must report disposal weights to local or country authorities.   For our 
reporting purposes, hazardous waste includes all “regulated” waste such as batteries, fluorescent lamps and 
biohazardous or medical waste.   For reporting purposes, one- time construction and demolition wastes are not 
included in annual hazardous waste figures.   
Non- Hazardous Waste Management:   Non- hazardous  waste includes all non- hazardous and non- regulated 
refuse generated from our manufacturing and office activities, as well as support ing areas such as cafeterias  
and onsite documentation and printing services .  Our non-hazardous waste management methods, in order of 
priority, include reduction, reuse, recycling, incineration, treatment and landfill .  For  reporting purposes, one-
time construction and demolition wastes are not included in annual non- hazardous waste figures.    
Spill Prevention and Response :  Spill Prevention and Response programs are implemented at all Edwards 
manufacturing locations  with a focus on risk identification and engineering, administrative and work practice 
controls such as secondary containment, double- walled tanks, alarm and notification systems, preventive 
maintenance, locked valves on fuel -tank containment structures  and periodic visual inspections.  Additionally, 
personnel at each site are trained on appropriate spill response and clean- up escalation levels.  In many cases, 
our sites contract with hazardous materials specialists for emergency clean- up services , in the event that a 
professional response is needed.  Edwards reports all spills and releases in accordance with reporting 
thresholds designated by local or country government agencies.  Edwards sites also escalate spill and release incidents to the Global EHS Team.  At the Corporate level, Edwards tracks spills and releases that result in 
employee exposure, property damage or environmental risk.   In 2020, we had no spills or releases above 
thresholds  which required reporting to government authorities.  
 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  35 Hazardous Materials Transportation :  National and international standards establish requirements related to 
hazardous materials transportation and reporting of transportation incidents.  Edwards holds all appropriate 
certifications and licenses for any hazardous materials shipment or transport that takes place.  In many cases, Edwards contracts with hazardous materials transport firms to ensure compliance with applicable transportation 
regulations.  All incidents related to transport of hazardous materials are reported to the Global EHS Team.   In 
2020, we had no vehicle or transportation incidents above thresholds which required reporting to government authorities.  
Surface and Storm water Protection:   Protection of surface and storm waters is managed in accordance with 
Edwards global EHS standards as well as locally issued permits and government regulations .  Edwards does 
not conduct industrial operations in outdoor, storm water -exposed areas.  All three of our US facilities in 
California, Utah and Puerto Rico are covered under No Exposure Certificates (NECs) in accordance with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Clean Water Act.  In addition, structural and non- structural source 
contr ol best management practices (BMPs) are employed at each of our facilities to prevent contamination of 
storm water.   
Our waste targets are based upon an evaluation of past performance, risks,  and opportunities, as well as benchmarking 
against peer companies in the medical device industry.  As Edwards continues to rapidly grow, we have chosen to set 
normalized waste targets based upon annual revenue.  
For reporting purposes, Edwards compiles eff luent and waste data for our global manufacturing plants through review of 
waste manifests and bills -of-lading, weigh tickets, service provider  invoices , recycler reports, on‐ site logs, water permit 
records and/or monitoring device records.  These document s are used to determine both waste quantities and methods 
for disposal.   We do not include one- time construction and demolition wastes in our annual reporting figures.  Based on 
records and estimation factors, we have adopted a 0.90 confidence level in reporting of our effluent and waste data.  
Water Discharge  
GRI 306-1, 306- 5 
In 2020, Edwards discharged approximately 5 73 cubic meters  of domestic and industrial wastewater to publicly owned 
treatment works (POTW ).  Of this, 526 cubic meters of  water were from our  seven global manufacturing locations  and 
47 cubic meters of water were from our global non- manufacturing offices.  This represents a 6% increase in year -over-
year companywide water discharge which is consistent with our manufacturing growth i n Singapore, Costa Rica and 
Ireland.  
Although most POTWs which receive our wastewater treat and then discharge to the environment, in Singapore, our 
POTW collects, processes,  and returns wastewater to consumers as NEWater .  While all Edwards sites are subject to 
discharge limits for parameters such as temperature, pH, biological oxygen demand ( BOD ), chemical oxygen demand 
(COD ), organics, inorganics, total suspended solids  (TSS) and heavy metals, the discharge parameters for the 
Singapore operations are more stringent than in other countries because of NEWater recycling.   The table below 
summarizes the primary  discharge parameters and results at our global manufacturing locations:    
Location  Discharge Parameter Summary  
Costa Rica  No BOD limit.  Trade -zone industrial park determines discharge parameters.  No exceedances in 20 20.  
Dominican Republic  No BOD limit.   Wastewater processed through onsite treatment plant before discharge.  No exceedances in 20 20. 
Draper, UT  BOD limit of 300 mg/l.  One metals exceedance reported in 20 20.  Refer to EHS Compliance  section of this 
Report.  
Ireland  No BOD limit.  No exceedances  in 20 20.  
Irvine  No BOD limit.  Total organic carbon discharged from site is less than 0.50 mg/l.  No exceedances reported in 
2020.  
Puerto Rico  No BOD limit.  Total organic carbon discharged from site is less than 0.1 mg/l.  No exceedances reported in 20 20. 
Singapore  BOD limit of 50 mg/l.  Industrial discharges monitoring through electronic gate valve in sewer line.  No 
exceedances reported in 20 20.  
 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  36 At our Dominican Republic manufacturing plant, our wastewater treatment plant not only treats domestic and industry 
wastewater before discharge to the POTW, but also allows us to recycle and return 25% of the treated wastewater to 
our non‐ potable water sources  for reuse, such as toilets and chillers , thereby reducing our total water discharge volume.  
Edwards does not release industrial wastewater to surface or subsurface waters, s uch as through injection wells, direct 
discharges to lakes or streams or other dispersions.   All outdoor storage of hazardous materials, such as hazardous 
waste yards and diesel fuel generator tanks, are both covered from exposure to rain water and provided with secondary containment systems for spill and release prevention.   
Water discharge volumes at Edwards are nearly equivalent to water withdrawal volumes, except for landscaping water 
and some evaporation from facilities related chillers and associated equipment.  For more detailed information on site-
by-site water withdraw al (and subsequently discharge), refer to the Water section of this report.  
Hazardous Waste  
GRI 30 6-2 
Edwards defines hazardous waste as any waste with properties that make it dangerous or capable of having a harmful effect on human health or the environm ent.  Included in this definition are all wastes which have hazardous 
characteristics of ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity and toxicity as well as other regulated wastes such as biohazardous and medical waste (including medical plastics) , electronic waste, fluorescent lamps,  and batteries.   Other waste 
materials maybe also be listed as specific hazardous wastes, if required by country or local regulation.    
In 2020, Edwards disposed of approximately 1, 746 metric ton s (MT) of hazardous waste from our sev en global 
manufacturing plants .  This represents an increase of 31% over prior year  and an increase of 121% over our 2015 
baseline year.   While during the same periods, when normalized by revenue, ou r hazardous waste increased 30% year-
over-year and only 26% from our 2015 baseline.  Even though Edwards has continued to grow in both size and 
complexity, our hazardous waste generation has outpaced our growth and our five- year result did  not match our 
aggressive long- term target to reduce hazardous waste disposal  by 20% when normalized by revenue.    
 
The increase in hazardous waste generation is primarily attributed to new products and enhancement of manufacturing 
equipment and processes which aggressively began in 2018 and continued through 2020.  Validation of our 
manufacturing processes is required in order to meet stringent FDA and global medical device quality assurance 
regulations and involves thorough testing of our equipment, procedures,  and chemicals in order to ensure efficac y.  
While validation activities represent growth and a bright future for our business, validation results in an increase in hazardous waste disposal without  resulting financial benefit until the products are brought to market.  In 2020, we had 
major validation activities occurring at four of our seven global manufacturing plants.  All of these plants —Singapore, 
Irvine, Costa Rica,  and Ireland—are part of our fast -growing Implant Valve Network.  The largest relative increase in 
hazardous waste disposal was at our Irvine plant, where we saw an increase of 57% over the prior year associated with 
the development of new product and manufacturing technologies, followed by increases in Costa Rica of 41% and 
Singapore of 23%.  All of these increases are a result of investing in our Heart Valve Implant network ’s future product 
improvements and manufacturing innovations.  Our established Caribbean based Critical Care operations realized 
reductions over prior years with Puerto Rico decreasing by 3% and Dominic an Republic decreasing by 1 4%. 
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  37 Our total cost for hazardous waste disposal in 2020 was $1,622,000, 
an increase of $154,000 from 2019.  From 2015 to 2020, our 
average hazardous waste disposal cost decreased 22%, from $1.18 
per MT in 2015 to $0.93  per MT in  2020.  This reduction i n cost is 
due to enhancing our partnerships and efficiencies with our 
hazardous waste contractors and by instituting processes to more 
effectively manage higher volume waste streams generated on- site, 
including the ability to dispos e of bulk production wastes used for  
beneficial reuse in fuels blendi ng.  The overall impact of our year -
over-year hazardous waste intensity and cost reductions has been 
approximately $795,000 in cost avoidance from 2016 to 2020.  
We recycle approximately 32 % of our hazardous waste, primarily 
through the energy recovery from high- BTU rated wastes, including 
manufacturing solvents , most of which are generated at our Costa Rica and Irvine locations .  Approximately 62% of our 
hazardous  waste is incinerated in order to reduce future liabilities and risks to the community.   Less than 2 % of our 
hazardous waste is not qualified for recycling, incineration or treatment  and is disposed of in hazardous waste-
authorized landfill s.  
Non- Hazardous  Waste  
GRI 30 6-2 
Edwards defines non- hazardous waste as any waste not managed as hazardous or regulated waste and includes non -
hazardous waste which is both disposed and recycled.   It primarily includes all wastes that are allowed to be disposed 
in local landfills, but also may include wastes  that are otherwise required to be recycled by local governments .   
In 2020, Edwards disposed of approximately 2,944 metric tons ( MT) of 
nonhazardous waste from our seven global manufacturing  locations , 
which represents a 17% reduction from our prior year of 3,547 MT.  
This figure includes all non- hazardous waste incinerated, treated, sent 
to landfill,  AND recycled.   When compared to our baseline year of 2015, 
we have increased absolute volumes of waste by 37% while Edwards 
revenue growth during this time period was 74%.  Since 2015, Edwards 
has grown in size and revenue faster than we have increased our non-hazardous waste disposal .  When normalized by annual revenue, 
Edwards has reduced non- hazardous waste disposal by 21% since 
2015, thereby beating our five- year target to reduce generation by 20%.  
The reduction in non- hazardous waste is attributed to numerous 
initiatives at our manufacturing plants as well as reductions in office and nonmanufacturing wastes while employees were working from home during COVID -19.  The largest impact of our recycling efforts came from significant reductions 
in recycling of our plastics and corrugate.   While plastic recycling increased approximately 5% year -over-year, our 
corrugate recycling came to a standstill due to the impact of the COVID -19 pandemic and the shift to recycling of higher 
grade corrugate for the global packaging market.  We hope to s ee this impact rebound in the future years as the 
economy recovers from the COVID -19 pandemic  and the need for recycling of our corrugate increases .  In 2019, 
significant efforts began to reduce packaging waste from our high- volume commercial products  and we are continuing 
these efforts today.  We expect that in future years, we will start to see the impact of ongoing packaging waste reduction efforts.   
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  38     
Our total cost for non- hazardous waste disposal in 2020 was $ 393,000.  Since 2015, our nonhazardous waste disposal 
cost, excluding recycling, increased from $201 per MT to $213 per MT, or $12 per MT.   The overall impact of our year -
over-year non-hazardous waste and recycling intensity and cost reductions has been approximately $495,000 in waste  
disposal cost avoidance from 2016 to 2020.  
Recycling  
Edwards recycles hazardous and non- hazardous waste streams  whenever possible.  While our primary focus is to 
reduce the overall quantities of waste generated, we understand the importance of ensuring was te is sent for recycling 
wherever possible.  Examples of non- hazardous waste sent for recycling include paper, corrugate, plastics, wood 
pallets, metal scrap, consumer cans and bottles, cafeteria oils and grease, electronics,  and landscaping waste.  
Exampl es of hazardous waste sent for recycling include manufacturing solvents, water diluted with biocides, medical 
plastics, fluorescent lamps,  and batteries.  
We recycled  1,318 metric tons  (MT) of non-hazardous waste and 559 MT of hazardous waste from our manufacturing 
locations  in 2020.  This represents 40 % recycling rate for our total company waste, which is a 5 % increase from 201 9.  
Since 2015, Edwards has maintained a consistent total recycling rate of recycling approximatel y 40% of all of our total 
waste generated, even with continuous fluctuations in our hazardous and nonhazardous waste volumes.    
In 2020, Edwards invested $46,383 in recycling of nonhazardous waste 
at our global manufacturing locations.  While the cost of recycling varies 
greatly from country -to-country , Edwards makes every effort to promote 
recycling  regardless of  whether there is a financial benefit or a cost.  Due 
to technological complexities in the different countries in which we 
operate, approximatel y half of our sites pay to recycle, while other half 
receive payment.   Other recycling initiatives are required by our landlord 
and property management companies and incorporated into our lease 
agreements.  
 
 
 
Incidents and Adverse Impacts 
GRI 30 6-3, 306-4 
In 2020, Edwards had no significant spills or environmental releases above regulatory reporting thresholds at any of our 
locations worldwide nor did Edwards have any adverse incidents related to transportation of hazardous materials .  
Edwards had no water discharges t o stormwater  runoff which have had a material adverse impact on any water body or 
habitat.  
Each of Edwards’ manufacturing facilities has written emergency response procedures that address such risks as fires, 
chemical spills, unpermitted airborne releases  and storm water discharges, security considerations, hurricanes , 
earthquakes  and other related hazardous materials and environmental risks.   Typically, local regulations also require 
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  39 specific emergency response and preparedness plans for businesses.   Emergency response plans and preparedness 
activities are evaluated during EHS audits.  
Edwards does not directly transport hazardous materials off of its owned and operated properties.  Instead, Edwards 
contracts with different suppliers as appr opriate for the shipment of hazardous materials, such as either hazardous 
waste contractors or third- party shipping companies.   These service providers  prepare hazardous materials for 
shipment and ensure the appropriate documentation is available for each transport for both domestic  and international 
shipments.  
Compliance  
2016 -2020 Target  2016 -2020 Performance  
 No serious or willful violations  Target achieved  
0 serious or willful violations  
 Achieve ISO 14001  certification  at all existing 
manufacturing plants by the end of 2018 and at new 
manufacturing plants within 3 years of start -up Target achieved  
100% existing plants certified; start- up locations are 
on plan ; Costa Rica newly certified in ISO 14001  
 Prepare for ISO 45001 certification at all 
manufacturing plants (certification target planned for 
next 5 -year cycle)  Target achieved  
43% plants certified;  remaining plants are on plan 
for certification by end -of-2023  
Additional metrics including 5 -year historical results  are available in the Data Summary section of this Report.  
Impact to Compliance from COVID -19 in 2020:  
 
COVID -19 Impact:  Edwards is categorized as an essential business  in all of the countries in which we operate, 
including our manufacturing operations, distribution,  and field support teams inside of hospitals and medical facilities.  
As such, our plants are subject to inspections and inquiries from local health official s to ensure protocols are 
implemented to help monitor and prevent the spread of COVID -19 in our work areas.    
 ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 Recertifications:  In 2020, we were able to work with our accredited ISO auditors in 
order to perform site certification or recertification audits either remotely or with a minimum on- site staff.  All sites 
were successfully certified or recertified per ISO accreditation requirements.  
 
Government Inspections:  In 2020, government agencies tended to postpone on- site inspections for such items as 
air emissions, hazardous waste, chemical handling,  and occupational safety.  Instead, we experienced a high 
number of COVID -19 health inspections, both in person and virtual, by government health and safety agencies to 
ensure our essential manufacturing operations were meeting the requirements and expectations of local health authorities.  In 2020, we had 10 separate health agency inspections and inquiries with regards to maintaining our 
COVID -19 protocols and meeting local government health agency requirements.  Agency representatives approved 
all of our preventive and response measures and issued no findings or recommendations at any of our sites.    
 
Third Party Audits:  Due to restrictions on travel and in order to meet our protocols to help prevent the spread of 
COVID -19, on- site 3
rd Party audits were not conducted at our manufacturing sites in 2020.  However, we are in the 
process to implement these audits later in 2021 after COVID -19 vaccinations are administered and travel and 
quarantine restrictions are lifted.    
 
Global Internal EHS Audits:  Due to restrictions on travel, we were only able to complete an in- person Global EHS 
Audit of our Puerto Rico location in January 2020.  To manage risks at other sites, we established virtual audit processes, on- going communications, submittal of documentation for verification and focused primarily on higher 
compliance and operational risks of concern.  We plan to return to a full on- site audit schedule in late 2021/early 
2022 after COVID -19 va ccinations are administered and travel and quarantine restrictions are lifted.    
 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  40 Management Approach  
GRI 10 3 
At Edwards we recognize compliance to individual EHS laws and regulations  in each country and municipality  is the 
minimum requirement for us to conduct  business and operate our manufacturing facilities.   Pursuant to our EHS  Policy, 
we will comply with all relevant government regulations, medical device industry standards and other requirements to  
which we  subscribe.   This applies to all of our  global  manufacturing and non- manufacturing operations and includes all 
employees, as well as temporary workers, contractors and visitors present at our facilities.   The risks of non- compliance 
include violations and fines , disruption of business, harm to people or the environment and damage to Edwards’ 
reputation.  Safe and compliant operations allow us the opportunity t o establish stakeholder trust, enhance our working 
relationship with government agencies, protect people and the environment, ensure business continuity and provide a 
competitive advantage during customer tender and bidding processes.   We also include EHS compliance as part of our 
supplier and contractor approval processes.  
We believe EHS compliance can be achieved through robust EHS management systems, strong EHS governance and 
a culture of employee ownership and accountability.   We believe the ownership of meeting requirements belongs in the 
hands of  our employees and their supervisors who are directly managing our risks, opportunities, aspects and hazards. 
The function of our EHS professionals is to educate our employees, provide them with the tools to effectively  do their 
jobs and to monitor their performance in the spirit of continual  improvement.  
Our compliance targets are based upon our commitment to provide a safe and healthy workplace, promote 
environmental excellence,  and comply with government regulations, as stated in our EHS Policy.    
ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018 Managemen t Systems  
Edwards has adopted the ISO management system principles of Plan- Do-Check -Act and continual  improvement as the 
basis for our EHS management system.  We believe that by identifying our environmental impacts and safety hazards, prioritizing our ris ks and opportunities,  and implementing effective programs and controls we can consistently achieve 
EHS compliance, prevent injuries and reduce environmental impact .  As part of the ISO framework, the effectiveness of 
our EHS programs is evaluated at regular intervals and plans and programs are adjusted as necessary.   Performance is 
regularly reported to our executive leadership and site management team s.    
In 2016, Edwards manufacturing plants were challenged to achieve ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Managem ent 
System  certification by the year 2018, o f which five sites met this challenge.  In 2020, our Costa Rica manufacturing 
plant achieved this goal, which now makes six of our seven sites certified in ISO 14001:2015.   As a bonus, our 
European Region also ac hieved and maintains ISO 14001:2015 certification for our non- manufacturing operations in 
Europe.  Our  newest plant  in Ireland is on track to meet this goal by the end of 2023 to meet our internal requirement to 
become certified within three years of start ing operations.   
Manufacturing plants are now working towards achieving ISO 45001: 2018 Occupational Health & Safety Management 
System certification.   Currently, 50% of our manufacturing plants are certified and the remaining 50% are on schedule 
to become certified by the end of 2023.  
Recertification to the ISO standards occurs i n three- year cycles  and 3
rd party surveillance audits are conducted in non-
certification years .  Copies of ISO certificates are included at the end of this R eport.  
Last 
Certification/  
3-year Cycle  Irvine , CA Draper , UT Dominican 
Republic  Puerto 
Rico  Costa Rica  
(2017 
start -up) Ireland  
(2021 
start -up) Singapore  Europe  
ISO 14001:2015  2018  2020 2018  2018  2020  Planned by 
2023 2018  2018  
ISO 45001:2018  Planned  by 
2023 Planned by 
2023 2018  2018  Planned  by 
2023 Planned by 
2023 2019  n/a 
EHS Governance  
Our EHS governance program consists of the following elements:  
Government Inspections:  Government agency inspections indicate if our global locations  are meeting their 
compliance, permit and reporting obligations.   Typically, our manufacturing locations are inspected for 
compliance requirements for air emissions, haz ardous waste, medical waste, storm water, wastewater, safety Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  41 standards, employee exposures, fire safety and overall chemical management.   The outcome of each 
government inspection is reported to Global EHS and the business unit  leadership team.   Any violat ions or 
concerns are tracked through a corrective action process  to ensure effective closure.  
Third ‐Party Audits:  Every three years, or as determined by risk, each manufacturing location is  audited by a 
third-party EHS consulting firm to assess compliance to EHS regulations, corporate standards  and overall 
management of significant risks, environmental aspects,  and safety hazards.   Audit reports  are provided to 
Global EHS, reported to management,  and monitored and tracked for effective closure of any findings or 
concerns.   Edwards locations which are ISO 14001 and/or ISO 45001- certified also undergo recertification 
audits every three years by an independent, accredited certification body.   Additionally, t hird ‐party property 
protection and emergency preparedness a udits are conducted at regular intervals  by our property  insurance 
provider.  
Global EHS Audits:  Annually, or as determined by risk, each location is assessed by Global EHS for 
conformance to Edwards EHS st andards  and management of significant risks, environmental aspects and 
safety hazards.  Reports are provided to management and monitored for effective closure of any findings or concerns . 
Internal EHS Inspections:   Edwards manufacturing and non- manufacturing locations are respons ible for 
conducting internal EHS self -inspections based on internal audit protocols applicable to the location and 
business unit.    
EHS Due Diligence:  Edwards implements a corporate due diligence process for evaluating EHS risks and 
opportunities for business acquisitions, divestitures and other property transactions.  Such due diligence may 
include Phase I and Phase II Environmental Site Assessments , including asbestos, lead and chemical 
contamination surveys .  In 2020, due diligence was completed for  the acquisition and expansion of properties 
at our headquarters expansion in Irvine, California to accommodate our growth in research & development and 
administrative support functions .    
2020 EHS Compliance  
In 2020, Edwards had no serious or willful violations issued by any environmental, health or safety government agency.  Globally, Edwards underwent 23 government agency inspections, which resulted in no concerns or notices of violation.  
In 2020, we had 10 separate health agency inspections and inquiries with regards to maintaining our COVID -19 
protocols and meeting local government health agency requirements.  Agency representatives approved all of our preventive and response measures and issued no findings or significant recommendations at any of our sites.  
 
 
Voluntary Environmental Agreements  
Since 1995, Edwards has partnered with the California Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) to address the 
remediation of contaminated groundwater at a former manufacturing location in Irvine, California.  Remediation activities 
are aimed at cleaning up low levels of freon detected in the groundwater.  The groundwater is not considered potable 
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  42 nor available for agricultural purposes  and poses  no threat to public health and safety.  The groundwater was allegedly 
contaminated due to activities performed prior to Edwards Lifesciences becoming its own corporate entity in 2000.  The 
extent of environmental or financial risk is not significant for reporting purposes.  
Supplier E HS Assessment  
Impact to Supplier Assessments from COVID -19 in 2020:  
 
None 
 
Management Approach  
GRI 103  
At Edwards we recognize a strong partnership with our suppliers can add strength to our EHS commitments to maintain 
compliance, prevent injuries and reduce pollution.  As such, we incorporate EHS considerations in both our supplier and contractor programs commensurate to the overall EHS impacts and risks their products and ser vices may present while 
doing business with Edwards.  
At Edwards, we include both Regulated Suppliers  and Non-Regulated Suppliers  in our global environment and safety 
programs.  
• Regulated Suppliers:  Our Regulated Suppliers  are those companies who have more direct involvement and 
potential risk to Edwards business operations, security and reputation.  These suppliers typically support our 
manufacturing and regulated business activities, such as supplying manufacturing components or having direct  
access to our information technology for financial, business operations or research & development activities.   
Regulated Suppliers also include our direct suppliers  who supply parts or materials for our manufacturing 
operations.  They are responsible for  helping Edwards meet requirements for material disclosure programs 
such as California Proposition 65, REACH, RoHS, Conflict Minerals, Environmental Packaging, Chemical 
Stewardship and Lifecycle Design.  Direct suppliers serve our  Global Supply Chain organization.  Guided by 
our Edwards Aspiration to Transform Patient Care Through Innovative Technologies , Global Supply Chain 
monitor s and assess es the product quality, safety, social and environmental performance of  our suppliers .  
More information regarding our direct suppliers and supply chain performance is located on our 2020 Edwards 
Sustainability Report . 
• Non- Regulated Suppliers:   Non- Regulated Suppliers include suppliers and contractors who do not fall under 
the category of Regulated Supplier.  This group is largely comprised of i ndirect suppliers that provide materials 
and services which are not directly incorporated into our medical device products , such as office equipment, 
computer equipment, janitorial, security, cafeteria services and various employee services and conveniences.  
Although some of our indirect suppliers provide only materials, many also provide onsite services to each of our 
locat ions.  EHS performance of  indirect suppliers  providing onsite services is managed through the EHS 
program at each location, as these suppliers often have a direct impact on the EHS performance at the 
individual site level . 
Supplier Code of Conduct  
Edwards ’ Titanium Book of Global Business Practice Standards  state s our guiding business and ethical principles as 
they relate to the marketplac e, our employees and our community.   It is expected that , as an extension of our business, 
our suppliers meet the same standards to which Edwards holds itself.   The Titanium Book  covers topics such as, but 
not limited to,  competition laws, bribery and corruption, trade compliance, product quality, anti -money laundering, 
sustainability, conflicts of interest  and bidding, tenders and procurement.   The Titanium Book  is available in multiple 
languages to our suppliers , contract ors and employees .   
Any supplier, contractor, employee, member of the public or any person outside of the Edwards organization m ay also 
present a grievance related to EHS practices or ethics  through our Edwards Speak ‐Up Program
.  More information on 
this Program can be found in the Grievance Structure, Ethics and Integrity  section of this Report .  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  43 Supplier Screening  
GRI 30 8-1 
All Regulated and Non- Regulated suppliers  are included in a Level 1 preliminary screening processes as part of our 
EHS and Sustainability supplier due diligence program.  Suppliers are searched across a library of public database 
sources to identify  any concerns or “flags ” in the following areas:  
Environment Health & Safety  Civil & Human Rights  
Employee Health & Safety  
Materials Labeling & Handling 
Chemical Use  
Emissions & Waste  
Environmental Stewardship  
Sustainability  Civil & Human Rights Violations  
Child Labor  
Forced Labor   
Harassment, Abuse & Discrimination  
Excessive Working Hours  
Minimum Wage  & Non -Payment  Modern  Day Slavery  & Human Trafficking  
Diversity  
Employee Rights  
Fair Working Conditions  
Unsafe Work Conditions  
 
All Level 1 screening flags are reviewed by the Global EHS Team and other subject -matter experts  and then the 
supplier is a ccepted or denied.   
In addition, all Regulated Suppliers and high -spend Non- Regulated Supplier s must undergo an additional Level 2 
evaluation which requires that they complete our  EHS & Sustainability Due Diligence Questionnaire (DDQ).  The DDQ  
requires that the supplier provide responses on the following topics:  
Environmental Considerations  Employee Health & Safety  
Environmental Policy & Practices  
Environmental Citations or Fines 
ISO 14001 C ertification  
Hazardous Materials (e.g. REACH, RoHS, TSCA)  Health & Safety Policy & Practices  
Health & Safety Citations or Fines  
ISO 45001 Certification  
Injuries, Illnesses & Fatalities  
Public Disclosures  Other Topics of Concern  
Corporate Sustainability Report ing 
Global Reporting Initiative  Reporting Standards  
CDP  Reporting for Climate Change, Water , Supply Chain, Forests 
& Cities  Equal Opportunity Employer  
Employee Turnover Rate  
Minority or Women -Owned Business Enterprise  
Modern Day Slavery & Human Trafficking  
Child Labor  
 
Based upon the DDQ responses, the supplier will be  accepted or denied.  There are four questions in the DDQ which 
are considered “drop out” criteria.   These questions must  be answered favorably in order for the supplier to be 
considered as an Edwards supplier partner .  A negative response for these criteria will result in automatic “drop out.”   
These “drop out” minimum criteria are:   
• Environment.  The s upplier must comply with all product related hazardous materials and trade regulations, 
such as WEE, RoHS, REACH, TSCA, BPA, DEHP, ODS and others . 
• Employment & Safety.  The s upplier must comply with all employment laws and regulations and industry 
employment practices as applicable to the countries  in which they operate.  
• Human Rights.  The supplier must comply  with United Kingdom Modern Day Slavery regulations, United 
States Human Trafficking regulations and California (USA) Transparency in Supply Chains Act . 
• Child Labor.  The supplier  must  not employ children under 16 years of age in job tasks which may have higher 
safety and health risks than adults  
Any other DDQ responses which are answered unfavorably will be evaluated on an individual basis wit h consideration 
for overall company reputation and risk .   
Supplier Screening Results  & Supply Chain Impacts   
Our supplier s creening program  was launched in 2018.   At the program onset, 26,631 existing suppliers were passed 
through our Level 1 screening.  Since then, an additional 7,864 new suppliers have undergone Level 1 screening and 
465 Direct Suppliers or high- spend Indirect Suppliers have completed our Level 2 DDQ evaluation.  In 2020, we had no 
supplier s rejected due to concerns related to significant actual or potential negative EHS impacts.  No other negative 
EHS impacts have been identified in the supply chain.     Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  44 Year  # New Suppliers  # New Suppliers Completing 
Level 1 Screening  # New Suppliers Completing 
Level 2 Evaluation  # New Suppliers Rejected 
for EHS Concerns  
2018  2,787  2,787  (100%)  30 (1%)  0 (0%)  
2019  2,975  2,975  (100%)  212 (8%)  1 (<1%)  
2020  2,102  2,102 (100%)  223 (11%)  0 (0%)  
Occupational Health and Safety  
2016 -2020 Target  2016 -2020 Performance  
 Beat medical  device  industry benchmark for 
recordable injuries and illnesses (RIR) by 25% , 
based on publicly reported industry injury rates  Target achieved  
65% below industry benchmark*  
0.63 IRR: Best result in Edwards safety history  
*Includes Edwards global employees and temporary employees, based on OSHA incidence rate calculation of: (# incidents x 
200,000)/hours worked ; 2019  USA Bureau of Labor Statistics, NAICS 3391: Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing . 
This rate does not include COVID -19 related cases suspected of being transmitted at work in 2020.  
 
Additional metrics including 5 -year historical results are available in the Data Summary section of this Report.  
 
Impact to Occupational Heal th and Safety  from COVID -19 in 2020:  
 
COVID -19 played a significant role in our global OHS program for 2020.  
 COVID -19 Impact:   Edwards is categorized as an essential business  in all of the countries in which we operate, 
including our manufacturing operations, distribution,  and field support teams inside of hospitals and medical facilities.   
As such, employees worked and performed their job responsibilities while protecting themselves and other s from 
potential exposure to COVID -19.  Many of our field clinicians and product experts worked in hospitals, clinics and 
treatment facilities alongside healthcare professionals while helping save COVID -19 positive and symptomatic 
patients . 
 
Working from Home:  Although a majority of our manufacturing and manufacturing- support employees remained 
on-site, almost all of our non- manufacturing employees worked off -site, or alternated coming to work, in order to 
achieve physical distancing requi rements necessary to prevent the spread of COVID -19.  During this time, we 
provided our at -home employees with necessary technology  and computer accessories to establish and effective and 
ergonomically safety work environment.  
 
Illness and Prevention Plans:   All of our manufacturing locations, regions and Irvine headquarters operations 
established written COVID -19 prevention plans and implemented steps necessary to protect our employees, their 
families,  and the public from exposure to, or spreading, COVID -19.  These plans addressed such items as campus 
monitoring, personal hygiene, workplace sanitization, physical distancing, health screenings, self -reporting, medical 
services,  and COVID -19 testing.  
 Case Management:   Our Human Resources team established a global employee self -reporting on- line system early 
on during the COVID -19 outbreak in order to monitor and man age confirmed cases and contact tracing.   
 
Government Reporting:   As required by regulations, such as in California, all COVID -19 positive cases,  and 
potential contact if appropriate, were reported to appropriate agencies pursuant to workers compensation, State regulations and local County ordinances.  
 Employee Interactions:   Although formal face- to-face safety training and safety committees were either suspended 
or reduced in capacity, we maintained our regulatory and company requirements by conducting virtual meetings or using other methods and strategies to ensure employees were properly trained, informed,  and involved.  
 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  45 Management Approach  
GRI 103, GRI 403- 1 
At Edwards we are committed to protecting the safety and well -being of our employees , onsite contractors, visitors,  and 
guests .  Pursuant to our EHS  Policy, we will provide a safe and healthy workplace.   This princip le, along with peer 
benchmarking, serves as the basis for our occupational health and safety target.  A safe and healthy workplace 
prevents injuries and illness es, and in the process, builds employee trust and engagement, improves productivity,  and 
reduces  manufacturing expenses and insurance- related costs .   
 
To achieve a safe and healthy workplace, we believe in establishing robust EHS management systems, implementing 
strong EHS governance,  and driving a culture of ownership and accountability.   Additionally, we recognize that building 
capability within our Edwards EHS function is fundamental to the success of our EHS  program.  We continue to invest 
in the development of tools, systems and our EHS professionals to help us achieve our EHS objectives.  Our commitment to preventing injury and illness  and promot ing well-being extends to both manufacturing and non-
manufacturing operations and includes all employees, as well as contractors and visitors present  at our facilities  as well 
as our local communities .  Both internal and external stakeholders consider Occupational Health & Safety to be a 
material topic for Edwards.  
 
Edwards’ Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Management System is based on the industr y-recognized principles of 
ISO 45001:2018.   Critical elements of our EHS Management System include:  
• Implementing an OHS management system not only to meet our regulatory obligations, but to provide a 
framework of injury and illness prevention and continual improvement  
• Establishing an Edwards EHS Policy rooted in our Credo and Aspirations  
• Demonstrating leadership commitment to EHS  
• Identifying significant risks , opportunities, environmental impacts and safety hazards  
• Developing EHS objectives at bot h corporate and manufacturing plant -levels  
• Establishing and implementing systems to maintain compliance, prevent injuries and reduce pollution  
• Executing EHS programs, processes,  and operational controls  
• Evaluating performance through internal and third- party audits and management reviews  
• Identifying and executing continual  improvement opportunities  
As part of our EHS Management System, our EHS strategy and objectives are reviewed and adjusted annual ly.  
Performance against objectives  is tracked on a monthly  basis  at the manufacturing plant and regional levels.  
Specifically,  for manufacturing, OHS objectives are incorporated into plant -level scorecards which include both injury 
and illness rate targets and OHS leading indicator criteria .   
Hazard Identificat ion, Risk Assessment,  and Incident Investigation  
GRI 403- 2 
Edwards adopts a risk -based approach to managing safety, consistent with ISO 45001:2018 principles.  Manufacturing 
Plant EHS teams work with local supervisors and manufacturing associates to quantify risk s associated with various job 
activities.  Risk assessments may take the form of a sitewide  safety risk register , job safety analyses  (JSAs),  process 
hazard analyses (PHAs),  industrial hygiene risk assessments , ergonomic risk assessments  or personal protective 
equipment (PPE) assessments.  We also complete EHS evaluations for new equipment, including such areas as machine safety, ergonomics and personal protective equipment.  Where risk s are found to be above predetermined 
acceptable threshold level s, additional measures are  implemented to control the hazards and lower the risk s.  Edwards 
follows the Hierarchy of Controls when implementing safety hazard control measures .    
Additionally, Edwards encourages employees to be proactive in identifying hazards in their work areas.  Employees are 
free to report any hazard or concern without fear of reprisal and some of our safety reporting programs allow for anonymous reporting.  Edwards sites employ various methods to facilitate  hazard identification, including safety 
suggestion boxes,  Facilities Help Tickets, Good Saves  programs and other  near miss and safety concern reporting 
programs .  Hazards may also be identified during facilities or product design review  and during routine inspections or 
safety walks .  Once hazards or concerns are reported, they are reviewed, routed to the appropriate personnel and 
tracked to resolution.    
When EHS-related incidents occur, Edwards requires that a thorough investigation be completed to identify the root 
cause and ensure corrective actions are tak en to remove the immediate hazards and prevent recurrence.  Incident 
investigations are conducted by the responsible supervisor and manager with support from the local EHS team, and Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  46 may include interviews, a walkthrough of the incident scene, review of doc ument s and records  and review of 
surveillance videotape or photos .  At Edwards, we emphasize that the purpose of an incident investigation is to prevent 
recurrence, not to find fault nor assign blame.  Corrective and preventive actions  resulting from the i ncident investigation 
are tracked to closure.   
Employee  Participation, Consultation and Communication  
GRI 403- 4 
Due to local cultures and differing regulations, each of Edwards’ manufacturing locations employs a different strategy 
towards encouraging management ‐employee interface with regard to workplace health and safety.  
 
For example, regulations at our Dominican Republic, Costa Rica and Singapore locations require us to establish safety committees comprised of both management and produc tion employees, conduct periodic meetings, maintain minutes of 
discussions, conduct joint investigations of accidents and near misses and report their committee status to the local government safety authorities.   In some cases, we must also notify the local health authorities of who is on our safety 
committees and provide access to our meeting agendas and action items.  
 
In Irvine, Californi a, we have identified approximately 50 key supervisors and they attend EHS trainings and discussions 
each month with the Irvine EHS team.   These 50 supervisors, in turn, communicate with their own manufacturing and 
laboratory departments and discuss EHS topics with their own individual employees.   Each supervisor is thus able to 
customize the safety topics and discussions to fit his or her individual department’s risks and opportunities.  
 
In Puerto Rico, our safety committee is typically 63% employees and 37% management.   The committee holds weekly 
safety meetings.  The agenda is well structured, published and always start s with a Safety Minute covered by a 
volunteer sharing a safety event from their personal life.  Many times, the personal safety experience relates back to the 
working environment.   The Puerto Rican team  also shares  safety minutes at All ‐Employee meetings hosted by our 
General Manager and other members of the leadership team.  
 As part of our culture of ownership and accountability, we expect our Plant Leadership to own worker participation and 
consultation programs at the plant -level.  We typically do not tr ack information about specific worker ‐management 
representation and topics of discussion at our manufacturing sites at the Global EHS level.  However, Global EHS 
receives reports on and monitors high risks or opportunities, such as those directly related to employee injuries, 
accidents or significant near misses.  
 
As each location is different in terms of culture and risk, we do not  employ a single approach to soliciting feedback  and 
participation from our global employees. However, we apply common elements as appropriate:  
• Encouraging employees to participate in hazard identification and Speak Up if they determine workplace 
conditions may be unsafe or may be improved  
• Site-level safety  committees and management -employee open forums  
• Employee anonymous  suggestion programs : such as our corporate Ask Mike (our CEO) and equivalent 
plant level programs to anonymously ask our plant leaders questions  
• Employee hazard or Good Save programs  
• Edwards’ anonymous Speak
‐Up and Integrity Hotline open to both internal employees and external 
stakeholders to report ethics or confidential concerns  
• Process improvement and Kaizen activities  
• Cross -functional team evaluation of equipment and product lines during design, purchasing and validation  
• Utilization of contractors and consultants for professional and technical feedback on OHS  programs and 
risks 
• Utilizing our Occupational Health services professionals and nurses to participate in identifying workplace 
hazards, evaluating potentially impacted employees, tr eating employees who are injured or have a 
workplace illness (including cumulative trauma) and participating in our investigation and corrective action 
processes  
 
Training and Awareness  
GRI 403- 5 
Each of our global manufacturing locations provides  EHS training in order to ensure compliance with EHS regulations  
and educate our employees on safe and environmentally responsible work practices  and procedures .  Our regional non-Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  47 manufacturing locations also provide necessary EHS training commensurate to the risks  and impacts of their 
administrative office functions, typically specific to accident prevention and emergency evacuation.    
EHS topics covered in training include:  
• Edwards EHS Management Systems:   EHS Policy, objectives, incident reporting and investigation, 
communication in alignment with ISO14001:2015 and I SO 45001:2018 requirements . 
• Safety and Health:   Injury and illness prevention, c hemical safety and hygiene, fall protection, powered 
industrial trucks, electrical safety, lockout -tagout, radiation safety, personal protective equipment, 
occupational noise, bloodborne pathogen exposure control, ergonomics  and other topics in alignment with 
applicable requirements including those of USA OSHA, Puerto Rico OSHA, Singapore Ministry of 
Manpower , Ireland Health and Safety Authority , and other agencies.  
• Environmental Protection:   Air pollution, hazardous waste, storm water, industrial wastewater  in 
alignment with USA Environmental Protection Agency , USA Department of Transportation, Puerto Rico 
Departm ent of Natural and Environmental  Resources (formerly EQB), Singapore National Environment 
Agency, Costa Rica Secretaría Técnica Nacional Ambiental , Dominican Republic Ministry of the 
Environment and Ireland Environmental Protection Agency requirements  
• Emergency Preparedness:  Spill response, CPR/First Aid/AED  in alignment with applicable local 
requirements  
Training formats vary from instructor -led, web- based, read -and-review  and on- the-job training.   The training method 
selected will vary depending upon topic and audience.  The effectiveness of training may be evaluated through written 
quiz, practical examination or by worker observation.  Training requirements vary by location and by individual , based 
upon local EHS legal requirements and employee job assignments.   Training plans are structured by the EHS team who 
is most familiar with applicable safety and compliance requirements,  and then assigned in our Learning Management 
System (LMS) by supervisors who are most familiar with their employees and their  work tasks .  Training completion is 
tracked in our LMS.  All of global manufacturing locations are held accountable for meeting their regulatory and 
company required training obligations through our Corporate EHS and 3rd party auditing programs (see EHS 
Compliance section of this Report ).  
For EHS topics , like slip and fall awareness, which are not covered in formal training courses  but might require general 
employee awareness , there are a variety of means to communicate these safety messages.  Some of these means 
include safety communication boards and television screens, electronic newsletters , Injury Flash Alerts  and team 
huddle safety talks .  
Additionally, we recognize that  the continual development of our global EHS professionals is fundamental to the 
success of our EHS program.  Annually, EHS professionals set development plans as part the Edwards Talent 
Development Program.  In addition to encouraging EHS professionals to pursue general business and technical degree 
and certificate programs, the team is encouraged to attend industry conferences , seminars,  and training classes.  
Currently many of our  global EHS professionals hold Lead Auditor certificati ons in one or both ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 
45001:2018, creating a network of  internal auditing resources within Edwards .  In future years, our network of internal 
auditors will travel across our global sites and business units for cross -auditing purposes to benefit Edwards EHS 
program and further enrich the development of our EHS professionals.   
Occupational Health Services and Promotion of Worker Health  
GRI 403- 3, GRI 403-6 
We believ e the well -being of our employees has a direct correlation with the success 
of our safety and environmental performance.  Healthier employees tend to have fewer injuries and participate more openly in our EHS programs to help us identify 
risks and opportunit ies for improvement.  In conjunction with traditional employee 
benefits of insurance, vacations, medical leave,  and other work policies, we also 
provide a variety of benefits focused on overall  employee health and safety at work . 
Each of our s even global manufacturing locations provide benefits associated with 
occupational health and safety commensurate to their work er population, culture and 
availability of such programs in their local communities.   For example, while all of our 
locations provide access to off ‐site medical clinics, our larger locations also employ 
on‐site nurses and medical professionals to assist in both work and nonwork -related  
Edwards Six Pillars of Wellness  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  48 injury and personal health needs.   In 2020, we provided or arranged for flu shots for all of our employees across the 
world and held outside health clinics and exercise sessions at our Irvine, California headquarters.  
Our occupational health services professionals participate with our EHS team and supervisors in the identification of 
risks and hazards, such as ergonomics and bloodborne pathogens, both proactively before and injury or illness is 
reported and reactively with assistance in injury investigations.  Root causes are identified and corrective actions are implemented to help reduce the risk of a repeat injury to another employee.  All employees have access to our occupational health professionals and their information is maintained confidential pursuant to local regulations and industry practices.  
Although COVID -19 prevented us from performing many in- person activities, our teams reached out to employees 
remotely with virtual clinics and wellness sessions to promote health while remaining off -site.  Typically, our health 
events and benefits include such areas as mammograms, lactation rooms, weight loss  clinics, yoga classes, stretching 
breaks and smoking cessation programs.   At some of our locations we provide on‐ site fitness centers, basketball courts, 
bicycle facilities and large fields for soccer and other outdoor activities.  
Our global Human Resources team leads  a health and wellness  campaign based on Six P illars of W ellness .  The 
campaign is designed to enhance employee satisfaction, reduc e injuries and illnesses, and improv e overall employee 
well‐being and job satisfaction.   More information on the Edwards wellness offerings can be found in our 2020 Edwards 
Sustainability Report . 
For example, in our Czech Republic regional office we receive fresh fruit and vegetables from a local market to distribute among the three kitchens in our facility.  The fresh fruit is service every day and employees are free to take 
whatever items they want.  In 2020, we made an extra point to ensure our work surfaces were well sanitized and 
employees maintained proper physical distancing when enjoying their healthy snacks.  
    
Our Czech Republic employees enjoying a mid- afternoon health snack.  
 
Occupational health and employee wellness offerings at each of our manufacturing locations is summarized below:  
Location  Onsite 
Nurses and 
Clinic  Onsite 
Physician  
Visits  Offsite 
Medical 
Clinic  Fitness 
Center  Organized 
Sports & 
Fitness  Ergonomics 
& Stretching 
Programs  Healthy 
Lifestyle 
Programs  
Costa Rica      
onsite    
Dominican 
Republic         
Ireland  Planned for new Limerick manufacturing plant  in 2021  
Irvine      
onsite    
Puerto Rico        
Singapore      
subsidy     
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  49 Utah      
onsite    
2020 Injury and Illness Data  
GRI 403- 8, GRI 403- 9, GRI 403- 10 
For 2020, in the data table at the end of this report, we began reporting specific details related to Edwards employees 
vs. Contract Labor (Contingent Workforce), for such items as total headcount, hours worked, recordable injury rates and lost time injury rates.  We are also including statistics for potential COVID -19 exposures occurring at work which may 
have contributed to employees’ contracting COVID -19. 
Edwards has not experienced a work -related fatality  of an employee, temporary  employee,  or on‐ site contractor since 
we began operating as an independent company in 2000.  Our 2020 safety target established in 2016 was to beat the 
medical industry recordable incident rate (RIR) benchmark by 2 5%; our 2020 result beat this benchmark by 65 %.  Our 
final Recordable Injury Rate of 0.63  (or a little more than six injuries per 1,000 employees) is the best injury rate 
recorded in Edwards’ history.   This rate excludes potential one- time COVID -19 workpl ace exposures.  
Our injury rate is based on a 2020 average of 14,482 global employees, manufacturing employee overtime hours and 
temporary employees working in our facilities.  From 2019  to 2020, our global recordable incident rate decreased from 
0.79 to 0. 63, or by 20% and our Lost Time Injury reduced from 0.33 to 0.32.  This reduction is primarily due to efforts 
related to our effective Ergonomics Program  where were decreased from 56 to 38 cumulative trauma illnesses year -
over-year by implementing more effective injury prevention and early intervention strategies . Cumulative trauma 
continues to contribute to ar ound 45% of our recordable inci dents  related t o our manual sewing and assembly 
processes  and is, therefore, a priority for our manufacturing objectives.   Edwards is considered among the best-in-
industry safety performance, which we have benchmarked to be around 0.6 for RIR and 0.25 for LTIR . 
 
Edwards defines a recordable injury  as any work -related injury requir ing treatment beyond first aid, as defined in the US 
OSHA recordkeeping standard 29 CFR 1904.   For corporate reporting purposes, this  definition is applied globally at all 
Edwards  locations , regardless of local agency reporting guidelines.  
Edwards defines a lost-time case as any work -related injury that results in a full day or more away from work, in 
accordance with the US OSHA recordkeeping standard 29 CFR 1904.  
In 2020, our Singapore manufacturing plant completed its best ergonomics recordable injury performance year of achieving only 0.14 ergonomic injuries and illnesses per average headcount, a year -over-year improvement of over 
70%.  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  50 Ergonomic injury and illness trend at our Singapore plant  
Ergonomics Program  
GRI 403- 7, GRI 403-9 
Cumulative trauma illnesses represent approximately 45% of Edwards’ work -related injuries and illnesses.  The majority 
of our cumulative trauma illnesses come from our valve network manufacturing locations, where manual sewing of 
tissue valves introduces the ergonomic risk factors of repetition, force and sustained postures .  As such, we  pursue 
aggressive strategies in our manufacturing plants and engineering departments  which aim to address ergonomic risks 
with appropriate prevention and control measures throughout the design and manufacturing process.  In 2020, we 
continued to improve and refine our approach for implement ing ergonomic  solutions at our Irvine m anufacturing plant 
and are expanding these effective solutions throughout our global manufacturing network . 
Our approach to ergonomics is in accordance with the Hierarchy of Controls and includes:  
• Quantitative risk assessment thro ugh the use of  detailed video and in- person analysis, ergonomic 
measurement equipment (e.g. force meters) and an Edwards -developed ergonomic risk assessment  tool 
• E limination and substitution of high ergonomic risk s through automation or redesign during New Product 
Introduction stage based on risk assessment scoring  
• Ergonomic manufacturing tools, equipment and fixtures  including tissue- holding templates  and custom 
sewing needles  
• Engineering improvements at the individual workstation level, including ergonom ic worktables , chairs and 
microscopes  
• Stretching and microbreak programs  
• Employee ergonomics training and awareness campaigns  
• Rotation programs organized by operation risk assessment score to ensure manufacturing lines and rotations are evenly balanced  
• Early injury and illness identification and intervention programs which include individual ergonomic 
assessments  
• Onsite occupational health staff dedicated to providing individual ergonomic support as needed  
These measures have reduced our ergonomically related injuries and illnesses from 56 in 2019 to 38 in 2020, equivalent to a 32% reduction.  Edwards also closely monitors employees who have experienced an ergonomic illness 
to ensure they are provided the care and resources needed to return them back to health and work at full capacity.  
In 2020, we met a new challenge when the majority of our nonmanufacturing employees began working from home due to physical distancing requirements that were implemented to prevent the spread of COV ID-19.  To help improve at -
home office and working areas, employees were given the opportunity to order a new mouse, keyboard, monitor, foot 
rest and other accessories to help reduce ergonomic stress.  We also provided guidance on proper stretching exercis es 
and virtual at -home workplace assessments.  During these assessments, employees provide videos and photos of their 
work areas as well as conducting video conferencing to provide further guidance into improving their at -home office 
conditions.  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  51         
Examples of postures for our virtual ergonomic  assessment program  
 
Our COVID -19 Preparedness and Prevention Program  & Safety Performance  
As early as January 2020 we began implementing our COVID -19 prevention plans at our Singapore facility and began 
preparing for the potential impact and roll -out of COVID -19 prevention strategies at all of our other locations across the 
world.  We established our COVID -19 Leadership Council  led by our Vice President of Risk Management  and Chief 
Scientific Officer  in consul tation with Edwards ’ Executive Leadership Team , comprised of our President & CEO, 
Corporate Vice President of Global Supply Chain and Quality, Corporate Vice President of Human Resources and 
several other company leaders.  Our core COVID -19 Council members include representatives from our plant and 
regional management, Human Resources , Global Supply Chain, Legal , Communications and Environment, Health and 
Safety . 
Under the leadership of the Council, we developed written protocols , training materials , communications and 
implementation strategies covering topics such as at -home health monitoring, at -work temperature and health 
screenings, physical distancing, masks and respirators, personal hygiene, sanitizing work areas, contractor and visitor guidelines, travel rest rictions, warehouse and distribution operations, working from home, field and clinical services 
protocols and maintaining safety and hygiene within our manufacturing operations.  The COVID -19 Council continues to 
meet  regularly by scheduled conference call s to discuss risks, opportunities and further direction and strategies  to help 
reduce the impact of COVID -19 to our employees, patients, communities, stakeholders,  and overall operations.  
As part of our COVID -19 Case Management process, Human Resources est ablished an on- line self -reporting tool for 
our approximately 15, 000 global employees to report suspected or known COVID -19 exposures, symptoms,  and 
illnesses.  When receiving any report, HR conducts further evaluations to ensure potentially affected employees receive the best medical care and work benefits  available as well as conducting management for close- contacts and other 
potentially affected persons .  If potential exposure occurs at work , we take action to identify close contact persons who 
are requi red to quarantine.  We also t horoughly clean and sanitize work areas where a positive COVID -19 tested 
person has been.  
We also established a Know Before You Go travel advisory for employees required to travel while conducting Edwards 
business at hospitals and clinics  and mandatory quarantine or testing when employees return from travel before they 
can return to our work areas .  Finally, our EHS and Corporate Logistics teamed together to source the purchasing of 
N95 filtering facepiece respirators and other personal protective equipment for Edwards’ 700 field services employees and clinicians required to work in hospitals and medical centers side- by-side with known or potentially affected COVID -
19 patients and work areas.  
Results of Our COVID -19 Preparedness and Prevention Program  
Our program has been extraordinarily successful in prevention the spread of COVID -19 among employees at our sites.  
Of our almost 15 ,000 global employees, our Case Management and employee tracing investigations determined that 
only 27 employees were suspected of contract ing COVID -19 while in the course of employment at Edwards.  Twelve of 
these cases occurred from Edwards’ field employees working in hospitals and medical centers while treating COVID -19 
patients or working in COVID -19 environments.  
As are result, COVID -19 related illnesses contracted at work account for 23 % of Edwards global injuries and illnesses.  
Even with these cases, our injury rate increased only slightly from 0.79 to 0. 81 year-over-year; still meeting the target to 
beat our medical industry benchmark by 25%.   With regards to recording lost time, we adopted the protocol that our 
manufacturing employees receive 14 days of lost time due to a COVID -19 illness whereby non- manuf acturing 
employees receive 14 days of restricted work while working in quarantine from home.  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  52     
Below are a few examples of the actions and programs we have in place to protect our employees and prevent the 
spread of COVID -19. 
Face Coverings and Physica l Distancing : 
 
All of our global locations require face coverings which 
are provided free- of-charge from Edwards.  Only face 
coverings approved by our EHS professionals may be worn while working at or visiting an Edwards site.  
 We also require six -feet of  physical distancing at all 
times, except when Countries adopted different norms, or when employees may be closer than six -feet by 
providing respirators, PPE and implementing similar sanitizing and hygiene control measures.  
    
     
 
 COVID -19 Volunteer Ambassador Teams  
 
Our sites have established volunteer and safety committee 
ambassador teams to help monitor compliance to our 
COVID -19 protocols and help employees obtain face 
masks, personal protective equipment or general information about COV ID-19 safety at work.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At-Work Health Screenings  
 
Our security teams screen all employees, 
contractors and visitors for COVID -19 related 
illness symptoms, included temperature screening using touch- free infrared thermometers.  
Symptomatic persons are instructed to return home and seek medical attention in necessary.  
 
   
 
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  53        
Frequent Cleaning and Sanitization  
 
All of our high- touch areas are frequently cleaned and 
sanitized with CDC approved solutions in our office areas and or alcohol -based or other qualified solutions in 
our manufacturing areas.  
 
For areas where known or highly suspect  COVID -19 
affected employee may have visited, we deploy Electrostatic Clorox 360 or equivalent disinfecting 
protocols.  
 
 
Working from Home & Ergonomics  
 
Throughout the COVID -19 pandemic only essential 
manufacturing and support persons have been 
allowed to access our work sites.   Employees working 
from home are provided computers and accessories 
needed to perform their work safely.  We also provide  
virtual at -home office ergonomic assessments.  
   
    
Alternate seating & hand sanitizing in Cartago  
 Employee Share Transportation Services  
 
In 2020, we suspended our rideshare programs, 
including carpooling, vanpool and Metrolink susidies.  At 
locations where we provide employee busing, we 
implemented careful steps to ensure we conduct health 
screenings, alternate seating and vehicle sanitizat ion. 
  
 
Front Lobby Programs  
 In Singapore, we require visitors and contractors to 
self-register  and complete COVID -19 electronic 
declaration forms.  We also installed a thermal scanner and alert system at our main entrance and 
exit point to monitor real -time worker temperatures.  
     
    
 
  
Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  54 Security  
Impact to Security  from COVID -19 in 2020:  
 
COVID -19 did not create any significant security considerations for Edwards in 2020.  However, we restricted or 
significantly limited access to our global locations from visitors and non- essential contractors in order to help limit 
potential COVID -19 exposures and prevent the spread of the virus.  
 
 
At Edwards we deploy robust security practices to ensure the safety of our employees,  visitors,  environment, facilities, 
patients,  and intellectual property.   Security practices discussed in this report relate to the security of our employees 
and environment.   Security considerations which do not directly impact our employee health or the environment, such 
as cyber security or intellectual property protection, are not within the scope of this Report but are discussed elsewhere 
in our 2019 Edwards Sustainability Report .  
At each of our global manufacturing plant s we implement security measures commensurate to the assessed risks to our 
employees and facilities. Although security is managed locally by each site, our overall security strategies and 
objectives are directed by our Irvine- based Corporate Services Security Team.  
Security personnel are the first point of contact for  guests and contractors arriving at our  Edwards  manufacturing plants .   
Security personnel not only screen individuals before entering our properties, but also help communicate our EHS and 
Security policies at the point of entry.  
While security measures taken at each manufacturing plant are customized to local needs, the following controls are 
commonly deployed:  
• Gated and fenced properties  
• Professional contracted security services; 24/7 guards and security personnel  
• Remotely accessed surveillance cameras  
• Employee badge readers  
• Contractor screening processes  
• Escorted guest s and visitors  
• Alarm systems and notification devices with automatic notifications to local authorities  
• Emergency response plans to address security and other concerns  
• Participation in employee accident and injury events to ensure emergency responders have access to  
the injured persons as well as isolating nonessential persons from incident scenes  
• Department of Homeland Security (USA) Hazardous Materials Security Plans , where applicable  
• Training of contracted security personnel in Edwards applicable EHS procedures and protocols  
• Protection of hazardous materials in locked cages and storage areas  
• First responders for emergencies occurring after -hours  
• Department of Transportation security plans for transport of hazardous materials at US locations  
Based on our  Corporate Sustainability materiality assessment EHS security was not determined to be a material topic 
by our internal and external stakeholders.   Still, because security may have a direct impact on the safety of our 
employees and protection of the environment, we implement procedures and measures to manage potential security 
risks.   We also incorporate security into our global Business Continuity and Risk Management strategies.  
  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  55 Community Engagement  
Impact to Community Engagement from  COVID -19 in 2 020: 
 
COVID -19 safety protocols restricted our manufacturing locations’ community outreach programs as most of these 
involve volunteer groups gathering for such programs as beach cleanups, park tree plantings, outdoor health promotions and various encounters with the public to promote and enhance EHS in our communities.  
 
 
GRI 4 13-1 
At Edwards we respect and value human health and the environmental well -being of the communities in which we live 
and operate.  We  aspire to demonstrate passionate engagement that strengthens our communities .  This is evident in 
the results of our materiality assessment, which indicate that Volunteerism and Giving as a highly material topic for 
Edwards.  While our Global Corporate Giving strategy drives mo st of our philanthropy programs, many community EHS 
efforts are planned and executed at local levels by employee volunteer teams at our global sites  with the support of 
local management .  We take care to ensure that our EHS outreach efforts are meaningful,  results -oriented and 
transparent with our neighbors and communities.  
EHS community engagement  events are selected by the site based upon the needs of the local community as well as 
the interests of our employees.  These events  often involve beach and park  clean‐ ups, reforestation efforts , blood 
drives, cancer and heart  disease awareness walks, and community EHS or emergency preparedness meetings.   More 
information on our global philanthropic and community engagement efforts  are report ed in our 2020 Edwards 
Sustainability Report  and on the Edwards Global Corporate Giving website.  
Operations with Significant Ne gative Impacts on Local Communities  
GRI 4 13-2 
We are pleased to report that Edwards has no significant actual or potential negative environmental, health or safety 
impacts on or local communities.  In addition, in 2020 there were no offsite  spills or releases to ground, air or water.  
The environmental impacts of our operations meet regulator y requirements and industry best practices for pollution 
prevention.  Our EHS impacts are reported in other relevant sections of this  Report.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  56 Data Summary  
Energy Indicators  
Edwards Global Data  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  
Energy Use – Direct (GJ)  98,910  109,017  193,040  227,974  243,086  243,29 9 
Energy Use – Indirect (GJ)  250,465  283,459  281,662  280,496  310,016   346,6 25 
Energy Use – Total Direct + Indirect (GJ)  349,374  392,476  474,702  508,470  553,103  589,9 24 
Energy Intensity (GJ/$1MM Revenue)  140 132 138 137 127 134 
Energy Use – Outside the Organization (GJ)  197,155  460,447  607,298  661,707  688,791  439,240  
Energy Use – Direct, Indirect & Outside the Organization (GJ)  546,529  852,923  1,081,999  1,170,177  1,241,894  1,029,163 
Data Coverage - % All Edwards Sites Reported  80 95 95 100 100 100 
 
2020 Detailed Data  Direct Energy 
Sources  Direct Energy Use 
(GJ) Indirect Energy Use 
(GJ) Renewable Energy 
Use (GJ) Non-Renewable 
Energy  Use (GJ) Total  Energy 
Use (GJ)  
Manufacturing Sites  
Costa Rica  P 6,594  31,741  31,475  6,860  38,335  
Dominican Republic  D, P 1,329 45,069  6,229  40,168  46,39 7 
Draper, UT  NG, D, P, G  18,594  31,927 2,747 47,774  50,521  
Ireland  NG 625 4,891  4,891  624 5,517 
Irvine, CA  NG, D, P, G  71,410  106,638  42,655 135,393  178,048  
Puerto Rico  D, P, G  118,800  10,721  643 128,878  129,521  
Singapore  NG, D, P, G  6,708 80,873  880 86,701  87,581  
Manufacturing Total  NG, D, P, G 224,060  311,860  89,520  446,398 535,9 20 
Non-Manufacturing Regions  
Australia  NG  451   815   118   1,148   1,266  
Austria  NG  204  369   261  312  573  
Belgium  NG  263   475   67   671   738  
Brazil  NG  247   446   313   379   692  
Canada  NG  326   590   381  535 916 
China  NG  1,342   2,425   587 3,180  3,767  
Columbia  NG  57   103   80   80   160  
Czech Republic  NG  1,820   3,290   224   4,886  5,110  
Denmark  NG  3   6   3   6   9  
Finland  NG  3   6   2   7   9  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  57 France  NG  335   605   99   840   940  
Germany  NG  593   1,072   291   1,374   1,665  
Greece  NG  92   167   41   219   260  
India  NG  607   1,096   157   1,546   1,703  
Ireland  NG  32   57   16   73   89  
Israel  NG  3,819    6,901    197  10,522  10,720  
Italy NG  266   481   144  602 747 
Japan  NG  3,421    6,201    905  8,727  9,632  
Korea  NG  354   641   19  976 995 
Malaysia  NG  392   708   116 984 1,100  
Mexico  NG  123   221   34   310   344  
Netherlands  NG  190   344   43   491  534 
Norway  NG  3   6   6   3   9  
Poland  NG  149   270   29   390   419  
Portugal  NG  58   104   38   124   162  
Russia  NG  8   14   2   19   21  
South Africa  NG  239   431   23   647   670  
Spain  NG  397   718   222   893   1,116  
Sweden  NG  117   211   109   219   327  
Switzerland  NG  1,432   2,588   1,642   2,378   4,020  
Taiwan ROC  NG 223 404 98 529 627 
Thailand  NG  212   384   31  565 596 
Turkey  NG  55   99   28   125   153  
UAE  NG  72   130   74   128   203  
United Kingdom  NG  206   372   81   497   578  
USA  NG  1,117   2,018   320   2,815   3,135  
Non-Manufacturing Total  NG 19,239  34,765   6,800    47,203   54,004  
All Edwards        
Global Total  NG, D, P, G  243,299  346,625  96,321  493,602  589,924  
NG = Natural gas, D = Diesel, P = Propane, G = Gasoline , E = Electricity  
 
 
 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  58 Water Indicators  
Global Data  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  
Water Withdrawal – Third Party Public Utility (Municipal) (m3) 342,629  420,921  450,961  437,016  471,825  486,447  
Water Withdrawal – Third Party NEWater (Municipal) (m3) 26,183  31,899  41,589  55,888  58,888  67,519  
Water Withdrawal – Municipal Water Supplies (m3) 368,812  452,820  492,550  492,904  530,713  553,966  
Water Withdrawal – Groundwater (m3) 14,077  5,193  18,961  13,456  12,21 1 19,054  
Water Withdrawal – Surface Water (m3) 500 1,528  1,600  800 0 - 
Water Withdrawal – Total (m3) 383,388  459,541  513,111  507,161  542,92 4 573,020  
Water Recycled (m3) - - - - 3,847  3,200  
Water Use – Total (m3)  383,388  459,541  513,111  507,161  546,770  576,220  
Water Use – Total (m3/$1MM Revenue)   154 155 149 136 126 131 
Data Coverage - % All Edwards Sites Reported  95 95 95 95 95 95 
 
2020 Detailed Data  Water Withdrawal - Third 
Party Public Utility (m3) Water Withdrawal - 
NEWater (m3) Water Withdrawal - 
Groundwater (m3) Water Withdrawal – 
Surface Water (m3) Water Withdrawal - Total 
(m3) 
Manufacturing Sites  
Costa Rica                                45,963  0 0 0                               45,963  
Dominican Republic  66,498  0 0 0 66,498  
Draper, UT  32,229  0 0 0 32,229  
Ireland  72 0 0 0 72 
Irvine, CA  183,256  0 0 0 183,256  
Puerto Rico  33,825  0 19,054  0 52,879  
Singapore  77,726  67,519  0 0 245,245  
Manufacturing Total  441,27 5 67,519  19,054  0 529,342  
Non-Manufacturing Regions  
Australia   819   0   0 0  819  
Austria   325  0  0  0  325  
Belgium   390  0  0  0   390  
Brazil   1,092   0  0  0   1,092  
Canada   715   0   0  0   715  
China   2,873   0  0 0  2,873  
Columbia   117   0  0  0   117  
Czech Republic   2,886   0  0  0  2,886  
Denmark   78  0 0   0  78  
Finland   52  0 0 0  52  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  59 France   936  0 0 0  936  
Germany   2,184  0 0 0  2,184  
Greece   182  0 0 0  182  
India   1,053  0 0 0  1,053  
Ireland   78  0 0 0  78  
Israel   2,418  0 0 0  2,418  
Italy  741  0 0 0  741  
Japan   5,590  0 0 0  5,590  
Korea   546  0 0 0  546  
Malaysia   442  0 0 0  442  
Mexico   273  0 0 0  273  
Netherlands   442  0 0 0  442  
Norway   65  0 0 0  65  
Poland   286  0 0 0  286  
Portugal   78  0 0 0  78  
Russia   39  0 0 0  39  
Singapore   507  0 0 0  507  
South Africa   182  0 0 0  182  
Spain   1,196  0 0 0  1,196  
Sweden   273  0 0 0  273  
Switzerland   1,742  0 0 0  1,742  
Thailand   546  0 0 0  546  
Turkey   26  0 0 0  26  
UAE   130  0 0 0  130  
United Kingdom   780  0 0 0  780  
USA   468  0 0 0  468  
Non-Manufacturing Total  30,550  0 0 0 30,550  
All Edwards  
Global Total  486,447  67,519  19,054  0 573,020  
 
 
 
 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  60 Emissions Indicators  
Edwards Global Data  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  
GHG Emissions – Scope 1 (MT CO2e)   5,446   6,059   10,891   12,659   13,800  14,416  
GHG Emissions – Scope 2, Location -Based (MT CO2e)   25,723   28,854   27,678   28,118   27,931  31,845 
GHG Emissions – Scope 2, Market -Based (MT CO2e)  Not available  28,001  31,799 
GHG Emissions – Scope 1 & 2, Location -Based (MT CO2e)   31,169   34,913   38,569   40,777   41,73 1  46,262 
GHG Intensity – Scope 1 & 2 (MT CO2e /$1MM Revenue ) 12.5 11.8 11.2 11.0 9.6 10.5 
GHG Emissions – Scope 3 (MT CO2e)   36,737   41,385   45,188   47,204   51,550  31,263  
GHG Emissions – Scope 1, 2 & 3, Location -Based (MT CO2e)   67,906   76,298   83,757   87,981   93,280  77,525 
SOx Emissions (kg)   57   73   5,600   8,328   9,344  13,636  
NOx Emiss ions (kg)   51,535   63,975   76,651   90,613   99,265  97,527  
PM Emissions (kg)   231   286   503   643   711  828 
ROG/VOC Emissions (kg)   52,513   65,190   83,903   100,978   110,850  113,593  
CO Emissions (kg)   86,865   107,848   127,286   149,911   164,157  159,725  
EO Emissions (kg) *  774  1,044   272  264 155 125 
Data Coverage - % All Edwards Sites Reported  80 95 95 100 100 100 
*In 2020 we revised our methodology for calculating EO emissions based on recommendations from the EPA and local authorities.  This has resulting in a reported reduction in our emissions 
reporting from 2015 through 2020.  
2020 Detailed Data  Scope 1 GHG  
(MT CO2e)  Scope 2 GHG , Location -Based  
(MT CO2e)  Scope 1 & 2 GHG , Location -Based  
(MT CO2e)  
Manufacturing Sites  
Costa Rica                392                           21               413 
Dominican Republic                  106                       6,545             6,651  
Draper, UT             1,116                      2,588            3,604  
Ireland                  365                         516               881  
Irvine, CA             3,891                       6,700          10,592 
Puerto Rico             7,246                      2,177            9,422 
Singapore                365                      8,909             9.275   
Manufacturing Total          11,381                    27,457           40,838   
Non-Manufacturing Regions  
Australia   25   169   194  
Austria   11 17 28 
Belgium   14   23   37  
Brazil   13   14   28  
Canada   18  23 41 
China   73 422 495 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  61 Columbia   3   4   7  
Czech Republic   99   458   557  
Denmark   0   0   0  
Finland   0   0   0  
France   18   12   30  
Germany   32   125   157  
Greece   5   25   30  
India   33   220   253  
Ireland   2   6   8  
Israel   208 1,068  1,276  
Italy  15   44   58  
Japan   187  903 1,090  
Korea   19 96 115 
Malaysia   21 128 150 
Mexico   7   29   36  
Netherlands   10  42 52 
Norway   0   0   0  
Poland   8   53   62  
Portugal   3   10   14  
Russia   0   1   2  
South Africa   13   108   121  
Spain   22   58   79  
Sweden   6   1   7  
Switzerland   78   21   99  
Taiwan ROC  0 21 21 
Thailand   12 51 62 
Turkey   3   13   16  
UAE   4   24   28  
United Kingdom   11   26   38  
USA  61  173   233  
Non-Manufacturing Total  1,035  4,389  5,424  
All Edwards     
Global Total  14,416  31,845 46,262  
Scope 1 emissions factor s: DEFRA 2019  
Scope 2 emissions factors : EPA eGRID 2018, Puerto Rico GHG Report 2014, DEFRA 2019, IEA 2019, supplier/utility  emissions factors  
Scope 3 emissions factors:   Transportation Energy Data Book (Edition 38),  travel management partner emissions factors  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  62 Waste Indicators 
Global Data  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  
Hazardous Waste – Recycling/Fuels Blending (MT)  283 302 309 154 208 559 
Hazardous Waste – Incineration/Treatment (MT)  465 578 689 759 1,029  1,091  
Hazardous Waste – Other (MT)  0 5 11 41 0 - 
Hazardous Waste – Landfill (MT)  20 3 7 1 26 34 
Biohazardous/Medical Waste – Incineration (MT)  21 18 20 58 67 63 
Hazardous Waste – Total (MT)  788 906 1,036  1,013  1,329  1,746 
Hazardous Waste – Total (MT/$1MM Revenue)   0.316  0.306  0.302  0.272  0.306  0.398  
Non-Hazardous Waste – Recycling (MT)  874 925 1,034  1,091  1,668  1,318  
Non-Hazardous Waste – Incineration (MT)  52 63 79 66 15 13 
Non-Hazardous Waste – Other (MT)  10 1 19 22 123 0 
Non-Hazardous Waste – Landfill (MT)  1,206  1,435  1,651  1,809  1,741  1,613  
Non-Hazardous Waste – Total (MT)  2,142  2,424  2,783  2,988  3,547  2,944 
Non-Hazardous Waste – Total (MT/$1MM Revenue)  0.859  0.818  0.810  0.802  0.816  .677 
All Waste – Total (MT)  2,930  3,330  3,819  4,000  4,876  4,691  
Data Coverage - % All Edwards Sites Reported  100 100 100 100 100 100 
 
2020 Detailed Data  Hazardous Waste (MT)  Non-Hazardous Waste 
(MT)  Total Waste (MT)  Non-Hazardous Waste 
Recycling (%)  Total Waste Recycling 
(%) 
Manufacturing Sites  
Costa Rica  222 74 296 45 11 
Dominican Republic  10 533 543 89 87 
Draper, UT  78 504 581 59 51 
Ireland  2 31 33 100 94 
Irvine, CA  463 980 1,442 26 24 
Puerto Rico  30 417 447 51 49 
Singapore  941 407 1,348 3 1 
Manufacturing Total  1,746 2,528 4,274 45 30 
 
EHS Compliance  Indicators  
Global Data  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020 
Government Inspections  38 31 29 29 36 23 
Serious or willful violations  0 0 0 0 0 0 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  63 Minor violations  2 5 1 2 7 0 
Offsite spills or releases  0 0 0 0 0 0 
Stakeholder EHS grievances  0 0 0 0 0 0 
Due diligence concerns related to M&A  0 0 0 0 0 0 
Natural disaster or severe weather -related events  0 0 1 0 0 0 
Penalties assessed ($)  0 0 560 0 1,880  0 
Data Coverage – % All Edwards Sites Reported  100 100 100 100 100 100 
 
Occupational Health & Safety Indicators   
Global Data **** 2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  
Number Edwards Employees  (average)  and % workforce       14,482  (96%)  
Number Contracted / Contingent Workforce  and % workforce       600 (4%)  
Number of hours worked by Edwards Employees       28,085,055  
Number of hours worked by Contracted / Contingent Workforce       1.256,432  
Employee Fatalities  for Edwards & Contracted employees  0 0 0 0 0 0 
Number of high -consequence work -related injuries  for Edwards 
and Contracted employees  0 0 0 0 0 0 
Rate of high -consequence work -related injuries  for Edwards and 
Contracted employees  0 0 0 0 0 0 
Number of Edwards employees work -related injuries  and 
illnesses (excluding COVID -19 cases)       90 
Number of Edwards employees work -related injuries and 
illnesses (including COVID -19 cases)       117 
Number of Contracted / Contingent Workforce work -related 
injuries  and illnesses (excluding COVID -19 cases)       2 
Number of Contracted / Contingent Workforce work -related 
injuries and illnesses (including COVID -19 cases)       2 
Number of Edwards employees Lost Time work -related injuries 
and illnesses (excluding COVID -19 cases)       45 
Number of Edwards employees Lost Time work -related injuries 
and illnesses (including COVID -19 cases)       54 
Number of Contracted / Contingent Workforce Lost Time work -
related injuries and illnesses (excluding COVID -19 cases)       2 
Number of Contracted / Contingent Workforce Lost Time work -
related injuries and illnesses (including COVID -19 cases)       2 
Recordable Incident Rate (RIR)*  (Edwards employees)  0.77 0.70 0.53 0.65 0.41 0.46 
Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)*  (Edwards employees)  0.33 0.28 0.40 0.50 0.32 0.38 
Recordable Incident Rate (RIR)* (Contracted employees)       0.33 Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  64 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)* (Contracted employees)  1.02 1.35 2.36 0.40 0.36 0.33 
Recordable Incident Rate (RIR)* (Total workforce , excluding 
COVID -19 illnesses for 2020)  1.13 1.23 0.99 1.04 0.79 0.63 
Recordable Incident Rate (RIR)* (Total workforce, including 
COVID -19 illnesses for 2020)  1.13 1.23 0.99 1.04 0.79 0.81 
Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)* (Total workforce, including 
COVID -19 illnesses for 2020)  0.36 0.35 0.51 0.49 0.33 0.38 
Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (Employee -only) – 
occupational illness cases per million hours worked**  3.84 3.52 2.67 3.26 2.06 2.32 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (Employee -only) – lost time 
cases per million hours worked**  1.65 1.39 2.01 2.49 1.62 1.92 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate ( Contract -only) – lost time 
cases per million hours worked***  5.11 6.76 11.80  2.02 1.78 1.67 
Data Coverage - % All Edwards Sites Reported  100 100 100 100 100 100 
*Includes Edwards employees and temporary employees  as indicated, b ased on OSHA incidence rate calculation  of: (# incidents x 200,000)/hours worked  
**Includes 100% of employees (excluding contract labor), based on incidence rate calculation of: (# incidents x 1,000,000)/hours worked  
***Includes 100% of contract -labor, which represents less than 10% of our wor kforce, based on incidence rate calculation of: (# incidents x 1,000,000)/hours worked  
****Includes COVID-19 positive illnesses where employee more likely than not contracted COVID -19 during the course of employment (i.e., hospital field clinician, COVID -19 positive coworker) ; 
22% of all injuries in 2020 were attributed to COVID -19 positive employees  
  Edwards Lifesciences  2020 EHS Report  65 Certificates  
  
WATER RESOURCES   •  ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES   •  INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE   •  SAFETY   •  CLIMATE CHANGE  
 
  
VERIFICATION OPINION  DEC LARATION  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
 
Apex Companies LLC, (Apex ) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reported by Edwards Life sciences  for the per iod stated be low. This verification declaration  applies t o the 
related information included within the  scope of work described below.   
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of Edwards  Lifesciences . Edwards  Lifesciences  is 
respon sible for the prep aration and fair pr esentation of  the GHG  statement  in accord ance with the criteria . Apex’ s 
sole responsibility was to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG e missions reported, and on 
the underlying systems an d processes used to coll ect, analyze and rev iew the information. Apex is responsible for 
expressing  an opinion on the GHG statement  based on the verification.  Verification activi ties applied in a limited level 
of assurance verification  are less extensive i n nature, tim ing and ext ent than in a  reasonable lev el of assurance 
verification.   
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:  
• Operational Control  
• Worldwide  – seven manufacturing facilities and approximately 100 regional  offices in over 40 countries  
• Exclusio ns from the scope of the reporter’s GH G emissions statemen t  
o Refriger ants  
Types of GHGs : CO 2, N2O, CH 4 
GHG Emiss ions Stat ement: 
• Scope 1: 14,400 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent  
• Scope 2  (Location -Based) : 31,800 metric ton s of CO 2 equivalent  
• Scope 2 (Market -Based): 31,800 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent 
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Sc ope 2 GHG emiss ions statement  were  primarily  histor ical in 
nature . 
Period covered by GHG emissions  verification : 
• January 1, 2020 to Decemb er 31, 2020 
Criter ia against which verification  conducted:  
• World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standa rd  
Reference Standa rd:  
• ISO 14064 -3 Second  edition 2019 -04: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: S pecification wi th guidance for  the 
valida tion and verification of greenhouse g as state ment s 
Level of Assurance  and Qualifications : 
• Limited  
• This verification used a materiality threshold of 5% for aggregate errors in sampled data  for each of the 
above indic ators  
  
  Page 2 
 
 
WATER RESOURCES   •  ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES   •  INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE   •  SAFETY   •  CLIMATE CHANGE  
 
GHG Verification Metho dology:  
Evidence -gathering procedures included but were not limited to:   
• Interviews with relevant personnel of Edwards  Lifesciences ;  
• Review  of documentary evidence produced by Edwards  Lifesciences ;  
• Revie w of Edwards  Lifesciences  data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, 
analysis and review of inform ation used to determ ine GHG emissions ; and 
• Audit of sample of data  used by Edwards Lifesciences  to determine  GHG emissions.  
Verification  Opinion:  
Based on the process and proced ures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissions stateme nt shown 
above:  
• is not mate rially correc t and is not a fair re presentation of the GHG emis sions data and information; an d 
• has not been  prepared in acco rdance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol  Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard . 
It is our opinion that Edwards  Lifesciences  has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation  and 
analysis of qu antitative data for determination of the se GHG emissions for t he stated period a nd boundaries. 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence  
Apex  is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety , Social and Enviro nmental 
management services including as surance with over 30 years history in pr oviding these  services.   
No member of the verification team has a business relationship with Edwards  Lifesciences , its Directors or Managers 
beyond that requ ired of this assignment.  W e conducted this ver ification inde penden tly and to our knowled ge there 
has been no con flict of interest.  
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their 
day-to-day business activities.  
The v erification team has  extensive exp erienc e in conducting assura nce over e nvironmental, social, ethical and 
health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an 
excellent understanding of Apex’s  standard methodology fo r the verifica tion o f greenhouse gas emiss ions data.  
Attestation:  
 
 
Benjamin Robinson , Lead Verifier      Christopher Ostermann , Technical Revi ewer  
Project Manager         Division Manager  
Apex Companies, LLC       Apex Companies, LLC  
Lakewood, Col orado       Atlanta , Georgia   
May 07, 2021 
This verification st atement, including th e opinion expressed he rein, is pro vided to Edwards  Lifesciences  and is  solely for the ben efit 
of Edwards  Lifesciences  in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We cons ent to the release of this stat ement by you to CDP  
in order to satisfy the terms  of CDP  disclosure r equirements but wi thout accepting or assuming any resp onsibility or liabi lity on our 
part to CDP or to any other party who may  have access to this statement . 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE  
 The Certification Body  
of TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH  
certifies that  
 
 Edwards Lifesciences S.A.  
Route de l'Etraz 70  
1260 Nyon  
Switzerland  
 
including the sites and scope of application  
see enclosure  
has established and applies  
an Environmental Management System . 
An audit was performed, Report No.  707074551 . 
Proof has been furnished that the requirements  
according to  
ISO 14001:2015  
are fulfilled.  
The certificate is valid from 2018 -04-10 until 2021 -04-09. 
Certificate Registration No.: 12 104 47536 TMS . 
  
 
Product Compliance Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
Page 1 of 3   
 
 
05/2019
139 
 
 
Enclosure of  Certificate Registration No.:  
12 104 47536 TMS  
 Sites  Scope of application  
 Edwards Lifesciences S.A.  
Route de l'Etraz 70  
1260 Nyon  
Switzerland  Central function for the management system.  
 Edwards Lifesciences S.L.  
Parque Tecnológico de Valencia, Ronda Narciso 
Monturiol 11, Bloque A  
46980 Paterna  
Spain  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
repair for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences Czech Republic s.r.o.  
Karolinská 661/4  
186 00 Prague 8  
Czech Republic  Import, Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Import, distr ibution, sales 
and technical training, repair and sales of spare 
parts for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences Services GmbH  
Edisonstraße 6  
85716 Unterschleißheim  
Germany  Distribution and sales of vascular  and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
technical training, repair and sales of spare parts 
for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences UK Ltd.  
3 The Sector  
Newbury Business Park, Berkshire RG14 2 PZ 
United Kingdom  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
repair for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences SAS  
Immeuble Gershwin 1 Rue Arnold Schoenberg  
78280 Guyancourt  
France  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
technical training, repair and sales of spare parts 
for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences BV  
Verle ngde Poolseweg 16  
4818 CL Breda  
Netherlands  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
technical training, repair and sales of spare parts 
for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences Bvba  
Pontbeekstraat 4 - 3rd floor  
1702 Dilbeek  
Belgium  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
repair for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
  
 
Product Compliance Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
Page 2 of 3   
 
 
05/2019
140 
 
 
Enclosure of  Certificate Registration No.:  
12 104 47536 TMS  
 Sites  Scope of application  
 Edwards Lifesciences (Portugal) Lda  
Rua das Lagoas Pequenas Edificio 5A - 5° Piso  
2744 -017 Porto Salvo  
Portugal  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales  
and repair for monitoring systems for  
metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences AG Branch  
Karolinská 661/4  
186 00 Prague  
Czech Republic  Import, Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Import, distribution,  
sales and technical training, repair and sales of 
spare parts for monitoring systems for  
metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
Product Compliance Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
Page 3 of 3   
 
 
05/2019
141 
 
 
CERTIFICATE  
 The Certification Body  
of TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH  
certifies that  
 
 Edwards Lifesciences Bvba  
Pontbeekstraat 4 - 3rd floor  
1702 Dilbeek  
Belgium  
 
has established and applies  
an Environmental Management System for 
Distribution and sales of  
vascular and cardiovascular devices.  
Distribution, sales and repair for monitoring systems  
for metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.  
An audit was performed, Report No.  707074551 . 
Proof has been furnished that the requirements  
according to  
ISO 14001:2015  
are fulfilled.  
The certificate is valid in conjunction  
with the main certificate from 2018 -04-10 until 2021 -04-09. 
Certificate Registration No. : 12 104 47536/08 TMS . 
  
 
Product Compliance Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
  
 
 
05/2019
142 
 
 
CERTIFICATE  
 The Certification Body  
of TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH  
certifies that  
 
 Edwards Lifesciences AG Branch  
Karolinská 661/4  
186 00 Prague  
Czech Republic  
 has established and applies  
an Environmental Management System for 
Import, Distribution and sales of  
vascular and cardiovascular devices.  
Import, distribution, sales and technical training,  
repair and sales of spare parts for monitoring systems  
for metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.  
An audit was performed, Report No.  707074551 . 
Proof has been furnished that the requirements  
according to  
ISO 14001:2015  
are fulfilled.  
The certificate is valid in conjunction  
with the main certificate from 2018 -04-10 until 2021 -04-09. 
Certificate Registration No. : 12 104 47536/10 TMS . 
  
 
Product Complian ce Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
  
 
 
05/2019
143CERTIFICATE
The Certification Body  
of TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH  
certifies that
Edwards Lifesciences S.L.  
Parque Tecnológico de Valencia,  
Ronda Narciso Monturiol 11, Bloque A  
46980 Paterna  
Spain
has established and applies  
an Environmental Management System for 
Distribution and sales of  
vascular and cardiovascular devices.  
Distribution, sales and repair for monitoring systems  
for metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.  
An audit was performed, Report No.  707074551 . 
Proof has been furnished that the requirements  
according to  
ISO 14001:2015
are fulfilled.  
The certificate is valid in conjunction  
with the main certificate from 2018 -04-10 until 2021 -04-09. 
Certificate Registration No. : 12 104 47536/02 TMS .
Product Compliance Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
05/2019
144 
 
 
ZERTIFIKAT  
 Die Zertifizierungsstelle  
der TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH  
bescheinigt, dass das Unternehmen  
 
 Edwards Lifesciences Services GmbH  
Edisonstraße 6  
85716 Unterschleißheim  
Deutschland  
 für den Geltungsbereich  
Distribution und Verkauf von  
vaskulären und kardiovaskulären Produkten.  
Distribution, Verkauf und technische Schulungen, Reparatur  
und Verkauf von Ersatzteilen für Überwachungssysteme  
für metabolische und kardiovaskuläre Parameter.  
ein Umweltmanagementsys tem 
eingeführt hat und anwendet.  
Durch ein Audit, Bericht -Nr. 707074551 , 
wurde der Nachweis erbracht, dass die Forderungen der  
ISO 14001:2015  
erfüllt sind.  
Dieses Zertifikat ist gültig in Verbindung  
mit dem Hauptzertifikat vom 10.04.2018 bis 09.04.2021 . 
Zertifikat -Registrier -Nr.: 12 104 47536/04 TMS . 
  
 
Product Compliance Management  
München, 11.04.2018  
  
 
 
05/2019
145 
 
 
CERTIFICATE  
 The Certification Body  
of TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH  
certifies that  
 
 Edwards Lifesciences BV  
Verlengde Poolseweg 16  
4818 CL Breda  
Netherlands  
 has established and applies  
an Environmental Management System for 
Distribution and sales of  
vascular and cardiovascular devices.  
Distribution, sales and technical training, repair and  
sales of spare parts for monitoring systems for  
metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.  
An audit was performed, Report No.  707074551 . 
Proof has been furnished that the requirements  
according to  
ISO 14001:2015  
are fulfilled.  
The certificate is valid in conjunction  
with the main certificate from 2018 -04-10 until 2021 -04-09. 
Certificate Registration No. : 12 104 47536/07 TMS . 
  
 
Product Compliance Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
  
 
 
05/2019
146 
 
 
CERTIFICATE  
 The Certification Body  
of TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH  
certifies that  
 
 Edwards Lifesciences S.A.  
Route de l'Etraz 70  
1260 Nyon  
Switzerland  
 
including the sites and scope of application  
see enclosure  
has established and applies  
an Environmental Management System . 
An audit was performed, Report No.  707074551 . 
Proof has been furnished that the requirements  
according to  
ISO 14001:2015  
are fulfilled.  
The certificate is valid from 2018 -04-10 until 2021 -04-09. 
Certificate Registration No.: 12 104 47536 TMS . 
  
 
Product Compliance Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
Page 1 of 3   
 
 
05/2019
147 
 
 
Enclosure of  Certificate Registration No.:  
12 104 47536 TMS  
 Sites  Scope of application  
 Edwards Lifesciences S.A.  
Route de l'Etraz 70  
1260 Nyon  
Switzerland  Central function for the management system.  
 Edwards Lifesciences S.L.  
Parque Tecnológico de Valencia, Ronda Narciso 
Monturiol 11, Bloque A  
46980 Paterna  
Spain  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
repair for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences Czech Republic s.r.o.  
Karolinská 661/4  
186 00 Prague 8  
Czech Republic  Import, Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Import, distr ibution, sales 
and technical training, repair and sales of spare 
parts for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences Services GmbH  
Edisonstraße 6  
85716 Unterschleißheim  
Germany  Distribution and sales of vascular  and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
technical training, repair and sales of spare parts 
for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences UK Ltd.  
3 The Sector  
Newbury Business Park, Berkshire RG14 2 PZ 
United Kingdom  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
repair for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences SAS  
Immeuble Gershwin 1 Rue Arnold Schoenberg  
78280 Guyancourt  
France  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
technical training, repair and sales of spare parts 
for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences BV  
Verle ngde Poolseweg 16  
4818 CL Breda  
Netherlands  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
technical training, repair and sales of spare parts 
for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
 Edwards Lifesciences Bvba  
Pontbeekstraat 4 - 3rd floor  
1702 Dilbeek  
Belgium  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales and 
repair for monitoring systems for metabolic and 
cardiovascular parameters.  
  
 
Product Compliance Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
Page 2 of 3   
 
 
05/2019
148Enclosure of  Certificate Registration No.:  
12 104 47536 TMS
Sites  Scope of application  
Edwards Lifesciences (Portugal) Lda  
Rua das Lagoas Pequenas Edificio 5A - 5° Piso  
2744 -017 Porto Salvo  
Portugal  Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Distribution, sales 
and repair for monitoring systems for  
metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.  
Edwards Lifesciences AG Branch  
Karolinská 661/4  
186 00 Prague  
Czech Republic  Import, Distribution and sales of vascular and 
cardiovascular devices. Import, distribution,  
sales and technical training, repair and sales of 
spare parts for monitoring systems for  
metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.  
Product Compliance Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
Page 3 of 3  
05/2019
149CERTIFICATE
The Certification Body  
of TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH  
certifies that
Edwards Lifesciences (Portugal) Lda  
Rua das Lagoas Pequenas Edificio 5A - 5° Piso  
2744 -017 Porto Salvo  
Portugal
has established and applies  
an Environmental Management System for 
Distribution and sales of  
vascular and cardiovascular devices.  
Distribution, sales and repair for monitoring systems 
for metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.  
An audit was performed, Report No.  707074551 . 
Proof has been furnished that the requirements  
according to  
ISO 14001:2015
are fulfilled.  
The certificate is valid in conjunction  
with the main certificate from 2018 -04-10 until 2021 -04-09. 
Certificate Registration No. : 12 104 47536/09 TMS .
Product Complian ce Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
05/2019
150CERTIFICATE
The Certification Body  
of TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH  
certifies that
Edwards Lifesciences UK Ltd.  
3 The Sector  
Newbury Business Park, Berkshire RG14 2PZ  
United Kingdom
has established and applies  
an Environmental Management System for 
Distribution and sales of  
vascular and cardiovascular devices.  
Distribution, sales and repair for monitoring systems  
for metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.  
An audit was performed, Report No.  707074551 . 
Proof has been furnished that the requirements  
according to  
ISO 14001:2015
are fulfilled.  
The certificate is valid in conjunction  
with the main certificate from 2018 -04-10 until 2021 -04-09. 
Certificate Registration No. : 12 104 47536/05 TMS .
Product Compliance Management  
Munich, 2018 -04-11 
05/2019
151CERTIFIES THAT THE 
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM  
ESTABLISHED AT 
EDWARDS LIFE SCIENCIES
P.O. Box 1577 Añasco, PR 00610 -1577  
Complies with : 
ISO 14001 :201 5 
The scope of certification includes: 
Manufacturing not elsewhere classified (IAF Code 23)  
Manufacturing of Cardiovascular Catheters  
CERTIFICATION DATE:  2018-09-01 
REGISTRATION No.:  20180109 -01 
EXPIRATION DATE:  2021-02-12 
ACREDITATION No.:  AMSCB -0914 -002-16 
For the Certification Board  
Celso Alvarado  
PRESIDENT  
05/2019
152 
  
CERTIFIES THAT THE  
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM  
ESTABLISHED AT 
 
EDWARDS LIFE SCIENCIES  
P.O. Box 1577 Añasco, PR 00610 -1577  
 
Complies with : 
ISO 45001:201 8 
The scope of certification includes:  
Manufacturing not els ewhere classified (IAF Code 23)  
Manufacturing  of Cardiovascular Catheters  
 
CERTIFICATION DATE:  2018-09-01 
REGISTRATION No.:  20180109 -02 
EXPIRATION DATE:  2021-02-12 
ACREDITATION No.:  AMSCB -0914 -002-16 
 
 
For the Certification Board  
 
 Celso Alvarado  
PRESIDENT  
 
05/2019
153 
  This certificate is property of QSI Auditing & Certification Servic es, LLC,  
618 E South Street, Suite 500, Orlando, FL 32801  
Certification is validated periodically via Surveillance  Audits . 
To validate this certificate please scan the QR code  or visit: www.qsicertifications.com/validate  
CS 9.0.0.0.2 VERSION F - DATE 2019 -04-01  
 
 
 
CERTIFIES THAT THE  
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGE MENT  SYSTEM  
ESTABLISHED AT 
 
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES , LLC.  
12050 Lone Peak Parkway, Draper, UT 84020, USA.  
 
 
Complies with : 
ISO 14001:201 5 
The scope of certification includes:  
Manufacturing not elsewhere classified (IAF Code 23) 
The manufacturing of mixed plastic medical devices  
and hand assembly of heart valve products .  
 
CERTIFICATION DATE:  2020 -28-10 
REGISTRATION No.:  R2020 1028 -02 
EXPIRATION DATE:  2023 -27-10 
ACREDITATION No.:  AMSCB -0914 -002-16 
 
For the Certification Board  
 
 Celso Alvarado  
PRESIDENT  
 
complies with:
THIS CERTIFICATE IS THE PROPERTY OF QSI AUDITING & CERTIFICATION SERVICES, LLC,. ORLANDO, FLORIDA
1802 N. ALAFAYA TRAIL, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA 32826
CERTIFICATION IS VALIDATED PERIODICALLY VIA SURVEILLANCE AUDITS
VISIT www.qsiamerica.com/accreditation.html FOR A LIST OF CURRENT ACCREDITATIONS
CS 9.0.0.0.2 VERSION E
Certifies that the Environmental Management System established at
ISO 14001:2015I
S
O
1
4
0
0
1I
S
O
1
4
00
1
ISO 14001
Edwards Lifesciences
Parque Industrial Itabo, Carretera Sánchez Km 18.5
Haina, Republica Dominicana. P.O. Box 18H.
and is hereby registered under the following scope: 
Medical Devices, IAF Code # 40
The scope of certification includes: Manufacturing and assembly 
of medical devices
CERTIFICATION DATE
REGISTRATION No.EXPIRATION DATE
ACCREDITATION No
.:
:::09/18/2018R18091801-0109/17/2021AMSCB-0914-002-16 
05/2019
155THIS CERTIFICATE IS THE PROPERTY OF QSI AUDITING & CERTIFICATION SERVICES, LLC,. ORLANDO, FLORIDA
1802 N. ALAFAYA TRAIL, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA 32826
CERTIFICATION IS VALIDATED PERIODICALLY VIA SURVEILLANCE AUDITS
VISIT www.qsiamerica.com/accreditation.html FOR A LIST OF CURRENT ACCREDITATIONS
CS 9.0.0.0.2 VERSION E
and is hereby registered under the following scope: Certifies that the Occupational Health and Safety Management System established at
ISO 45001:2018
ISO 45001
complies with:
Medical Devices, IAF Code # 40Edwards Lifesciences
Parque Industrial Itabo, Carretera Sánchez Km 18.5
Haina, Republica Dominicana. P.O. Box 18H.
The scope of certification includes: Manufacturing and assembly 
of medical devices
CERTIFICATION DATE
REGISTRATION No.EXPIRATION DATE
ACCREDITATION No
.:
:::09/18/2018R18091801-0209/17/2021AMSCB-0914-002-16 I
S
O
4
5
0
0
1I
S
O
4
5
0
0
1
05/2019
15605/2019
157PSB Singapore
CERTIFICATE
The Certification Body
ofTUVSUDPSBPteLtd
certifies that
r—ttifii
|[S| Edwards Lifesciences
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD
35 Changi North Crescent
Singapore 499641
has established and applies
an Environmental Management System for
Production of Biological Heart Valves and their subassemblies
Proof has been furnished that the requirements
according to
ISO 14001 : 2015
are fulfilled. The certificate is valid from 2018-08-14 to 2021-10-25
Certificate Registration No. 2015-0660
Date of Print: 2018-08-16
^t£f0
SIEW Kwai Heng, Tiffany
Certification Manager
Business Assurance Division
Management Systems'SACACCREDITED
CERTIFICATION
BODY
•ismaiamiau
Page 1 of 1
Please refer to www.tuv-sud-psb.sa for current certificate status in the "Directory of Management System Certified
Companies".
TUV SUD PSB Pte Ltd • 1 Science Park Drive • Singapore 118221 TOVy
05/2019
158 
  This certificate is property of QSI Auditing & Certification Servic es, LLC,  
618 E South Street, Suite 500, Orlando, FL 32801  
Certification is validated periodically via Surveillance  Audits . 
To validate this certificate please scan the QR code  or visit: www.qsicertifications.com/validate  
CS 9.0.0.0.2 VERSION F - DATE 2019 -04-01  
 
 
 
CERTIFIES THAT THE  
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGE MENT  SYSTEM  
ESTABLISHED AT 
 
EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES  
Cartago , Costa Rica  
 
Complies with : 
ISO 14001:201 5 
The scope of certification includes:  
Manufacturing not elsewhere classified  (IAF Code 23) 
Manufactura de stents y válvulas cardiacas   
 
 
CERTIFICATION DATE:  2020 -07-10 
REGISTRATION No.:  R2020 0710 -01 
EXPIRATION DATE:  2023 -07-09 
ACREDITATION No.:  AMSCB -0914 -002-16 
 
For the Certification Board  
 
 Celso Alvarado  
PRESIDENT  
 
