Sustainability 
Report
20192 
UnitedHealth Group was consciously built with the restless mindset, adaptable capabilities, culture and the enduring human values to help lead 
in the development of the next-generation health system in a socially conscious way. As a company, we feel an urgent responsibility to make the entire health system work better for everyone – those who experience care, those who provide care and those who pay for care.
As an enterprise, we are extremely proud to be publishing our first sustainability report and acknowledge we are doing so in unprecedented 
times. The impact of the COVID-19 global health crisis and the actions we are taking to support our communities, members, patients, care providers, customers, government partners and team members and their families is, and will remain, our top priority as events unfold in the months ahead. Details on our efforts to date are included in this report, and we will continue to take meaningful actions as we experience and learn more and work to do our part in resolving this global health crisis. 
Our culture, values and mission – helping people live healthier lives and helping make the health system work better for everyone – align with our 
long-term strategy to develop the next-generation health system that increases access to care, makes care more affordable, enhances the care experience and improves health outcomes. We do this by focusing on our core business priorities:
Reinventing Health Care Delivery. Achieving high-quality outcomes, lower costs, and improved consumer and physician satisfaction, driven by our high-performing local care practices.
Transforming Pharmacy Care Services.  
Driving transparent, digitally enabled, clinically integrated, high-quality pharmacy services at lower costs with more consumer responsive point-of-sale discounts.
Accelerating Digital and Advanced Technologies.  
Simplifying data exchange, improving connectivity, lowering costs and driving distinctive outcomes in every aspect of the health system through our highly secured, information-enabled digital platforms.
Advancing Consumer-Centric Benefits.  
Offering affordable products that align incentives with healthy behaviors to guide people to a more engaged and healthier lifestyle.
Distinguishing Health Banking and Payment Services.  
Automating and deepening the integration among physicians, consumers and payers by offering the broadest range of health banking and payment services. 
The ultimate goal for us is clear: to achieve our mission in a socially conscious way. Throughout this report – our first Sustainability Report – I hope you learn more about how the activities across our company are contributing to our mission. We will continue to build upon this important work and provide more information in future reports.
We are guided in our work by responsible business practices that drive our behaviors, our commitment to investing in and developing our 
workforce, and addressing our environmental practices and policies. And we will do more, focused on working with others, to eradicate long-standing health disparities in America and to create a more diverse U.S. health workforce, restlessly working to better serve society by leading in the development of the next-generation health system.
Sincerely, 
David S. Wichmann 
Chief Executive OfficerA Message from  
Our CEO3About 
UnitedHealth Group4
8Leading in the Development of the  
Next-Generation Health System
22 Our People and Culture
26Responsible 
Business Practices
32 Environmental Health
36 Performance DataWhat Sustainability Means 
to UnitedHealth Group
The 325,000 employees of UnitedHealth Group, Optum 
and UnitedHealthcare are driven by a shared mission and are dedicated to leading in the development of the next-generation health system in a socially conscious way, one person, one health system at a time. We are dedicated to earning the opportunity to serve more people and driving distinctive shareholder and societal returns by focusing on the following objectives.
 •Leading in the Development of the Next-Generation Health System: As Americans face rising health care costs, UnitedHealth Group is committed to a future where every person has access to high-quality, affordable health care that meets their unique needs.
 •Building and Shaping the Health Workforce: Meeting the unique needs of patients is achieved by advancing a diverse and inclusive health system workforce and investing in future workforce needs.
 •Reducing Costs and Achieving Better Outcomes: We are focused on providing transparency and incentives to help customers make their best health care decisions while offering innovative solutions to address social determinants of health like housing, food security and transportation. We are committed to expanding value-based care models that reimburse physicians based on keeping people healthy and providing the appropriate care. 
 •Inclusion and Diversity: At UnitedHealth Group, the extraordinary happens when we value, include and learn from diverse people and perspectives. We build stronger connections with each other, deliver products and services that work better for those we serve, and achieve more meaningful results. Our data-driven approach to talent attraction and development helps us build a culture of inclusion focused on developing a pipeline of diverse leaders. 
 •Responsible Business Practices: Strong and effective governance practices — developed over 40 years through board diversity and independence, a commitment to ethics and integrity, an emphasis on data security, and supply chain management — support our ability to lead in the development of the next-generation health system. 
 •Environmental Health: We recognize the important role the environment plays in the health of every community and we are committed to mitigating our impact on the environment through our environmental management system, stakeholder engagement and stewardship initiatives that have led to a 3.87% carbon reduction year-over-year.4
|      About UnitedHealth Group
About  
UnitedHealth Group 
The 325,000 people of our organization leverage the core competencies of our company – 
information, technology and clinical engagement – to deliver improved outcomes, lower costs  
and a better health care experience for the people we are privileged to serve.
Our mission is to help people live healthier lives and help make the 
health system work better for everyone. To achieve our mission: 
 •We seek to enhance the performance of the health system and improve the overall health and well-being of the people we serve and their communities. 
 •We work with health care professionals and other key partners to expand access to quality health care, so people get the care they need at an affordable price. 
 •We support the patient-physician relationship and empower people with the information, guidance and tools they need to make personal health choices and decisions. 
Our two complementary businesses – Optum and UnitedHealthcare –  
are driven by this unified mission and vision to achieve the quadruple aim of health care: improve health care access and affordability, enhance the health care experience, achieve better health outcomes for the individuals and organizations we are privileged to serve and provide an environment where clinicians can thrive and operate at the top of their professional capacities.
As a mission-driven enterprise we are connected by our five core 
values that inspire our behavior as individuals and as an enterprise.
 •Integrity: Honor commitments. Never compromise ethics. 
 •Compassion: Walk in the shoes of people we serve and those with whom we work.
 •Relationships: Build trust through collaboration. 
 •Innovation: Invent the future, learn from the past. 
 •Performance: Demonstrate excellence in everything we do. The breadth and scope of our diversified company help to consistently improve health care quality, access and affordability. Our ability to analyze complex data and apply deep health care expertise and insights allows us to serve people, care providers, businesses, communities and governments with more innovative products and complete, end-to-end offerings for many of the biggest challenges facing health care today.
For additional information, please visit
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/who-we-are5
  About UnitedHealth Group      |      Stakeholder Engagement 
and Materiality
UnitedHealth Group regularly engages with our stakeholders to 
promote proactive, transparent and consistent dialogue regarding our business and sustainability impacts. 
Key Stakeholders
 •Consumers
 •Employees
 •Customers 
 •Physicians and other health care professionals
We regularly collect and use feedback from our stakeholders to help us improve our business and react to their recommendations and concerns in a timely and appropriate manner. We engage with our key stakeholder groups in a variety of ways. 
Key Engagement Approaches
 •Customer forums and one-on-one meetings
 •Conferences
 •Earnings calls
We review feedback from our stakeholders with our executive leadership and board of directors to inform the strategic direction of our company and address critical issues of concern. Such feedback, combined with extensive peer and industry benchmarking on environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics, has been considered in determining our most material ESG topics. To determine the content included in our sustainability report, we have organized our highest priority ESG topics into four categories: Leading in the Development of the Next-Generation Health System, Our People and Culture, Responsible Business Practices and Environmental Health. •Suppliers
 •Policy-makers and regulators
 •Investors
 •Nonprofit partners
 •Employee listening surveys, weekly town halls, direct feedback
 •Social media
 •Surveys
Material Topics Discussed in this Report
Leading in the Development of the Next-Generation Health System •Building and Shaping the Health Workforce
 •Reducing the Total Cost of Care
 •Strengthening the Patient-Physician Relationship
 •Achieving Better Health Outcomes
 •Rewarding Quality, Effective Care
 •Building Healthier Communities
 •Public Policy 
Our People and Culture •Inclusion and Diversity
 •Human Capital Management
 •Employee Health and Well-Being
Responsible Business Practices •Corporate Governance
 •Ethics and Compliance
 •Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
 •Supply Chain Management
Environmental Health •Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions
 •Waste and Recycling
 •Water
5   About UnitedHealth Group      |      $242.2B
Total Revenues
$3.6B
Innovation/Research and Development Investments each year
325K
Employees, including:
 •120K clinical professionals
 •45K customer-facing team members
 •35K technology professionals
137M
Unique Individuals Served
$70M
Charitable Contributions
Recognition 
 •Dow Jones Sustainability Index – World and North American Index member since 1999. 
 •Civic 50 – Recipient for nine consecutive years.
 •JUST Capital – member of the JUST 100 since 2019.
 •Newsweek Green Rankings – Top 10% of largest  
500 U.S. companies.
 •The National Business Group on Health – "Best Employers: Excellence in Health & Well-Being" top-tier Platinum award.
 •CDP Climate 2019 – B Score.
 •Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index – “Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality.”
 •Disability Equality Index (DEI) – “2020 DEI Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion."
 •INROADS – Frank C. Carr Award recipient.
 •Viqtory – 2020 Military Friendly Employer. 
 •2019 CPA-Zicklin Index – Trendsetter. •Fortune’s World's Most Admired Companies – No. 1 rank in the insurance and managed care sector for the 10th straight year.
16
|      About UnitedHealth GroupOur Response 
to COVID-19
Improving Clinical Science  
and Public Health
UnitedHealth Group has leveraged our clinical knowledge, 
expertise and resources to help develop and advance new innovations to fight COVID-19. In partnership with leading industry and academic institutions, we have:
 •Pioneered a study and received FDA approval on a noninvasive, self-administered swab procedure to expand COVID-19 testing, reducing exposure for health care workers and preserving personal protective equipment.
 •Conducted a study to validate the effectiveness of polyester swabs and saline transportation to improve the availability of supplies for COVID-19 testing.
 •Supported the Mayo Clinic’s groundbreaking research into the therapeutic potential of using plasma from COVID-19 survivors. 
 •Partnered with the University of Minnesota, Boston Scientific and Medtronic to deploy 3,000 light ventilators to address critical shortages in the nation’s supply of ventilators.
Ensuring Access to Care 
To protect the health of our members and support our customers , 
we have increased access to coverage, expanded benefits and enhanced administrative flexibilities. For example, we: 
 •Announced the provision of more than $1.5 billion in direct customer and consumer support through premium credits, cost-sharing waivers and other efforts.
 •Waived all cost-sharing for COVID-19 testing and treatment for our members during the public health emergency.
 •Allowed early prescription refills and increased home delivery options for medications.
 •Expanded access to virtual care by redeploying 14,000 Optum clinicians to telehealth capabilities.
 •Launched a new coverage initiative – Get Covered – to help engage and connect uninsured individuals to existing health care coverage options.
 •Conducted proactive personal outreach to support seniors and the most vulnerable populations among our members.
 •Offered a special enrollment period for fully insured customers to allow employees who did not opt in for coverage during the regular enrollment period to secure coverage. 
Supporting the Health Workforce 
and Strengthening the Health Care 
Delivery System 
We are committed to protecting and supporting the health 
workforce and are partnering with national organizations to care for those who are leading the response by providing resources to meet their clinical, emotional and mental health needs. For example, we:
 •Joined forces with Microsoft to launch ProtectWellTM, an 
innovative safety protocol, process and technology initially launched for the health care workforce to prevent the unnecessary spread of disease, and later adapted to the The coronavirus (COVID-19) is 
profoundly impacting the health of 
people around the world, as well as the 
global economy. The safety and health of the people we serve, our team 
members, their families, and the 
communities where we work and live 
are our highest priority. Our response to COVID-19 includes more than 
$100 million in investments designed 
to help at-risk populations, support communities and protect the health care workforce. To aid the health care 
system’s response to this public health 
crisis, we have provided $2 billion in advance payments to care providers to support their liquidity. In addition, 
we have provided more than $1.5 
billion in premium and out-of-pocket relief for employers and individual 
insured populations.   SPECIAL TOPIC
6 |      About UnitedHealth Group7
  About UnitedHealth Group      |      For additional information, please visit
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/newsroom/addressing-covid
 •Provided $10 million to support more than a dozen community 
organizations serving vulnerable populations in hardest hit states, including: Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, New Jersey, New York and Washington.
 •Donated $5 million to help people experiencing food insecurity and 
homelessness, including support for 66 food banks in  
30 states in partnership with Feeding America; food deliveries for vulnerable seniors in 27 states in partnership with Meals on Wheels America; and emergency shelter and medical respite care for individuals experiencing homelessness in 17 states in partnership with the National Health Care for the Homeless Council.
Addressing the Global Impact of COVID-19
We have committed $10 million to help respond to urgent needs in the international communities where we operate, including Brazil, Chile, Colombia, India, Ireland, Peru, Philippines and Portugal. We have developed partnerships with leading nongovernmental organizations, universities and public health systems in each country. Our efforts include addressing food insecurity and funding health care and hygiene supports for vulnerable individuals and families, helping expand local health care system capacity by donating select community hospitals for use by the public system, providing ICU and regular beds for public system patients and creating a personal protective equipment education curriculum for clinicians. To advance patient care, we also created new telemedicine capabilities and expanded our owned ICU bed capacity to meet patient needs.
workplace. ProtectWellTM – now offered free of charge to all 
employers, screens individuals for COVID-19 symptoms and clears 
symptom-free employees for work each day. 
 •Accelerated nearly $2 billion in provider payments to help ease 
the financial burden on providers, in April.  
 •Partnered with the CDC Foundation, Direct Relief and American Nurses Foundation with an initial $8 million investment to provide over 1.3 million masks, gowns and other protective equipment to frontline health care workers across the nation and to build a virtual support system to aid America’s 4 million nurses.
 •Provided free access for mental health professionals to the Sanvello Clinician Dashboard, a virtual way to engage patients that includes secure video therapy and text-based messaging and scheduling.
Caring for Our Employees and their Families 
The health, wellness and safety of our 325,000 team members – including 120,000 clinical professionals – and their families is a top priority for our enterprise. To support and protect them during this global pandemic, we have:
 •Increased compensation and provided additional housing, transportation and emotional support services for our frontline clinical workforce serving in high incidence communities. 
 •Hardened our safety-first work environment for individuals caring for patients across our more than 1,500 facilities and in their homes. 
 •Executed our comprehensive business continuity plans and clinical safety protocols to keep team members safe.
In addition, to ensure the health and safety of all team members, we have:
 •Retained our entire workforce and are paying full wages.
 •Temporarily transitioned nearly 90% of our nonclinical workforce to a work at home status, while maintaining all service levels.
 •Provided our team members with special enrollment periods, access to backup caregiving resources, health, wellness and stress management tools, and more.
 •Paid full wages to team members who have COVID-19 or are subject to a quarantine, with no requirements to take paid time off. All COVID-19 costs are covered fully with no cost sharing. We also launched UnitedCARES, a program to support employees and their family members diagnosed with COVID-19.
Supporting Vulnerable Populations 
By collaborating with national and local nonprofits, UnitedHealth Group and the United Health Foundation are helping support the most vulnerable populations in our communities. For example, we are:
 •Provided $5 million to support a United Health Foundation partnership with AARP Foundation intended to serve over 1 million seniors impacted by COVID-19, delivering meals and providing tools to increase social connection.
 •Converted many of our cafeterias to provide more than 75,000 meals a week for people in need and keeping our cafe team employed. 8
|      Next-Generation Health SystemIt won’t be easy. The cost of health care in the U.S. continues to rise, 
and per capita spending on health care is at the highest level in history, exceeding an average of $11,000 annually. Meanwhile, the United States is facing a shortage of health care workers, with 62 million Americans living in counties with a shortage of primary care physicians.  
UnitedHealth Group recognizes the unique opportunity we have 
to help solve these challenges. That is why we are leading in the development of a next-generation health system in a socially conscious way – a system that increases access to care, makes care more affordable, enhances the care experience and improves health outcomes.
We work tirelessly every day, partnering with others, to play an 
increasingly valuable role in modernizing health care by: 
 •Pursuing sustainable universal coverage for all Americans,  a commitment we have supported since 2001, by strengthening the system of coverage programs offered today and offering a wider range of consumer-responsive plan designs. 
 •Collaborating to achieve market-leading affordability, with the goal of reducing health care cost trends closer to general inflation. 
 •Achieving world-class consumer and physician satisfaction, focused on raising Net Promoter Score levels closer to 70 across the company and higher in care settings and among our patients with the greatest health care needs.
 •Generating individual health records – with deeply personalized and AI-enabled recommendations on next best actions – for consumers and their physicians, to simplify decision-making and drive improved health outcomes. We are driving value for society by building on our strategic global growth objectives. Our agenda is purpose-built to align with the changes necessary to develop a more modern and effective health system. We are actively involved in helping to improve the health of our members by:
Reinventing health care delivery – to find, intercept and manage conditions early.
Transforming pharmacy care services – 
to a focused, whole-person approach.
Accelerating digital and advanced technologies – 
to enable a more intelligent system.Advancing consumer-responsive benefits – 
to address consumer needs/means.
Distinguishing health banking and payment services – 
to more broadly serve consumers and their doctors.
We are creating a next-generation health system by building and shaping the health workforce, reducing the total cost of care, strengthening the patient-physician relationship, rewarding quality, effective care and achieving better health outcomes. And we are working to build healthier communities and engaging in public policy to support our mission.
UnitedHealth Group is committed to a future where every person has access to high-quality 
affordable health care that meets their unique health care needs and financial means. With an 
aging population, increased prevalence of chronic disease and an increasing level of uninsured 
individuals due to COVID-19, the need has never been greater.IN THIS SECTION
Building and Shaping 
the Health Workforce →
Reducing the Total Cost of Care →Strengthening the 
Patient-Physician Relationship →
Achieving Better Health Outcomes →Rewarding Quality, Effective Care →Building Healthier Communities →Public Policy →Leading in the 
Development of the Next-Generation Health System9
Next-Generation Health System      |      
IN THIS SECTION
Building and Shaping 
the Health Workforce →
Reducing the Total Cost of Care →Strengthening the 
Patient-Physician Relationship →
Achieving Better Health Outcomes →Rewarding Quality, Effective Care →Building Healthier Communities →Public Policy →Building and Shaping  
the Health Workforce
UnitedHealth Group has long understood the importance of 
developing a health workforce that is best equipped to meet the needs of patients and the health system broadly, which we believe is achieved by advancing a diverse and inclusive workforce, investing in the health data analyst workforce, improving the existing workforce capacity and revitalizing primary care.
We recognize that diversity, and the unique perspectives it brings, 
can improve communication within the health care system and reduce health disparities. 
Advance a Diverse and 
Inclusive Workforce
Patients are more open to receiving care and guidance from 
practitioners of their own race or ethnicity, indicating that greater diversity among health professionals may improve health outcomes and health care delivery, while reducing health disparities particularly in underserved communities. That is why we are working to cultivate a health workforce that reflects the diversity of society to ensure that all communities receive the highest quality care.Diverse Scholars Initiative 
The United Health Foundation’s Diverse Scholars Initiative is creating a modern health workforce by increasing the number of primary care health providers ready to deliver personalized, culturally competent care. Through this initiative, we provide undergraduate, graduate and doctorate-level scholarships to students demonstrating financial need who are pursuing a degree that will lead to a career as a primary care health professional and indicate a commitment to working in underserved communities and community health centers. 
Since the program launched in 2007, the United Health 
Foundation has provided more than $23 million in assistance and funded nearly 3,000 scholarships for diverse undergraduate and graduate students, including 240 scholars from 45 states  for the 2019 – 2020 academic school year.
“Without the financial support, I’d be struggling 
to find money to finish nursing school ... the United Health Foundation forums have allowed me to connect with so many amazing young people from across the country. They all want to make a difference, just like I do, and it’s so exciting to collaborate with each other and share ideas for how we can improve our communities. ”
– D’Ayn DeGroat, a Diverse Scholars Initiative Student
SPOTLIGHT
9 Next-Generation Health System      |      DIVERSE SCHOLAR ACADEMIC LEVEL
DIVERSE SCHOLAR RACE & ETHNICITY36%
Doctorate6%
Graduate58%
Undergraduate
14%
American Indian/
Alaska Native
2%
White
2%
Native Hawaiian/
Other Pacific 
Islander20%
Asian
27%
Black/African
American
35%
Hispanic/Latino10
|      Next-Generation Health SystemRevitalize Primary Care
Primary care providers play a critical role in the health care system. 
They provide direct patient care and counsel patients on the appropriate use of specialists and advanced treatment options. Having enough primary care providers also contributes to better health outcomes, including lower mortality rates and more appropriate utilization of services delivered by specialists or hospitals. 
More than 19% of Americans live in an area with a shortage of 
primary care providers, and the shortfall is projected to reach between 20,000 and 55,000 over the next decade. As one of the largest employers of clinicians in the United States, we recognize the unique role clinicians – including advanced care practitioners – play in helping to solve the growing primary care shortage in America.
 •UnitedHealth Group’s Center for Clinician Advancement: Created to support the development and career advancement for UnitedHealth Group nurses, the program has evolved to support all licensed clinicians, totaling more than 45,000 individuals in all 50 states and several countries around the world. Through our academic partnerships and program offerings, which include tuition discounts and support enabling clinicians to find programs that meet their academic goals and achieve advanced degrees, there were 289 degree-program graduates in 2019. 
 •OptumCare Clinical Well-being Programs: Using the National Academy of Medicine’s model for improving clinician well-being, OptumCare nationwide is implementing workflow improvements to maximize the time spent with patients, and value-based care models to recognize and reward for quality of care that leads to increased patient satisfaction; and building a community among OptumCare clinicians to help develop connections and address loneliness experienced by clinical professionals.
Invest in the Health Data Analyst Workforce
Health care is becoming increasingly data dependent, requiring new skillsets and capabilities, including an increased reliance on the role of data scientists. However, the increased demand for data scientists has led to a general shortage of analytics professionals. We recognize this critical workforce need and have made several investments to help grow the health data analyst workforce and create a pipeline of future data scientists and technologists. Through partnerships with leading universities including Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, the University of Minnesota, the University of North Carolina and the Atlanta University Center Consortium, we have awarded over $12 million to expand health data analytics learning opportunities for university students and working professionals. 
$12M+
Invested to expand health data analytics education
Improve Existing Workforce Capacity
Professional development and continuing education are important components of developing the next-generation health workforce. UnitedHealth Group offers employees a wide variety of benefits that support training and professional development opportunities and employees are provided assistance with payment for education costs, including tuition reimbursement programs that totaled over $10 million in 2019. These programs enable employees to achieve their full potential and operate at the top of their license within health care. 11
Next-Generation Health System      |      
Reducing the Total  
Cost of Care
Health care spending in the United States is on an unsustainable 
path and is expected to reach $6 trillion by 2028 or 20% of gross domestic product. UnitedHealth Group is working across the health care system – with consumers and providers – to address the escalating and unsustainable cost of care. We believe better health outcomes and experiences, at a lower total cost, are possible, which will help change the trajectory of health care spending in America. 
We believe this is accomplished by strengthening consumer 
engagement, transparency and incentives, optimizing sites of care to ensure patients receive the highest quality care for their treatment and diagnosis, applying value-based incentives that focus on health outcomes, and eliminating surprise billing to improve the health care experience.
Consumer-Responsive Benefit Designs
We are offering more choice and flexibility with more modern and personal plan designs that better meet the unique coverage needs and financial means of people. These benefit designs are more consumer responsive and address social determinative care, especially for those who have the greatest and most complex needs. 
Strengthen Transparency, Engagement 
and Incentives for Consumers
We understand that selecting the right care provider and the 
right treatment option can be challenging, as pricing and quality of care varies greatly. 
Over the past decade, we have developed a broad portfolio of 
resources to help people comparison shop for health care based on quality and cost. Today, we provide consumers access to more information about their health care options than ever before, whether searching for the right site for care or a preferred provider. Our products and services include Rally’s cost-transparency tools that save consumers $500 to $1,000 per year; UnitedHealth’s Premium® program that provides information about high-quality physicians; and MyScript Finder, a pharmacy transparency tool that serves 56 million members and saves, on average, $49 per script.
Collectively, UnitedHealthcare’s transparency resources are 
available to over 30 million plan members, and people who have used these services have paid nearly 30% less, on average, than nonusers.Optimizing the Site of Care with  
Centers of Excellence
Today’s health care consumer has the option to receive health care 
services in a variety of clinical settings. Each of these locations – at home, a physician's office, a surgery center or a hospital – have different levels of expertise, skill and equipment that can affect the cost and quality of care that a patient receives. However, patients often face challenges in selecting the best site of care for their diagnosis and treatment. For procedures requiring a high level of skill and experience, some patients are diagnosed and receive treatment at facilities with lower success rates and a higher incidence of complications.
UnitedHealth Group understands there is a meaningful opportunity 
to drive greater affordability through new product and network designs that ensure care is delivered at the most effective and efficient site for a patient’s needs. We have established Optum Centers of Excellence (COE) that connect members directly to high-quality, cost-effective care. COEs are high-performing programs within a hospital or medical facility that have met rigorous 
qualification criteria and have a proven history of clinically superior 
and cost-effective outcomes. Our current COE network includes bariatric surgery, cancer, spine and joint, congenital heart disease, neonatal care, fertility, solid organ/stem cell transplants and ventricular assist devices.  
32%
Reduced hospital readmissions for joint replacement surgeries and 23% for spine fusion
37%
Fewer complications for joint replacement surgeries
and 3%-5% for spine fusion
40%
Lower length of hospital stay per case and a 41% lowermortality rate for patients with congenital heart diseaseCENTERS OF EXCELLENCE IMPACT
12
|      Next-Generation Health SystemStrengthen the Patient- 
Physician Relationship
At UnitedHealth Group, we are dedicated to improving the patient-
physician relationship through real-time health information that makes it easier for patients and their physicians to make the best possible care decisions. We seek to do this by providing navigation and decision support tools, delivering actionable and deeply personalized health information through individual health records, streamlining prior authorization, driving transparency and health literacy to improve the health care experience and personalizing care for complex populations.
Accelerate Digital and Advanced Technologies
We are accelerating a modern digital health care system by offering an innovative consumer digital engagement platform. We are also applying advanced technology, such as our patented clinical ontology, discovering breakthrough artificial intelligence (AI) capacities within health care and how it can be applied at scale, and growing our Internet of Things platform, which is helping patients and their caregivers monitor and manage chronic disease wherever they are. This enables a more intelligent health care system that improves the way patients and their physicians achieve better health outcomes.
Deliver Actionable Intelligence through 
Individual Health Records
Obtaining a complete and historical view of a patient’s health can 
be a difficult task. Patient records often reside in several different provider systems that often do not communicate with each other. Without a complete set of health care records, it can be difficult for clinicians to ensure they are making the best possible treatment recommendations for patients, which can result in suboptimal care. 
That’s why we have developed a patented, fully integrated, portable, 
real time and dynamic Individual Health Record that includes AI-enabled next best action recommendations. 
 •We are equipping physicians and individuals with a deeply personalized, 360-degree view so patients no longer need to remember all their medications, conditions and procedures. 
 •Market evidence and our own studies show this technology drives better health outcomes and experiences at significantly lower costs. 
Enable Navigation and Decision Support Tools
Navigating the health care system has become an increasingly 
challenging task because of the complex relationships among insurers, hospitals and clinicians. Patients may be uncertain about the cost of various treatments and medications or they may have difficulty navigating billing issues after treatment. We’re helping individuals navigate these complexities through a series of physician and consumer support tools.
 •Advocate4Me: A customer service model that connects members with a single point of contact for resolving an issue and then goes one step further by sharing information with the member, often highlighting recommended health actions, like scheduling a screening. 
 •Navigate4Me: A program for individuals facing complex conditions who would benefit from personalized navigation by receiving additional one-on-one guidance and support.
 •Point of Care Assist™: A technology that adds real-time 
patient information – including clinical, pharmacy, labs, prior authorization, eligibility and cost transparency – to existing electronic medical records to make it easier for physicians to understand a patient’s need at the point of care.
 •Advanced Communication Engine (ACE) Smart Edits: A technology that catches errors in submitted claims early in the payment process by alerting providers of errors and allowing them to quickly make corrections to ensure claims are paid accurately and efficiently. We estimate nearly 3 million denials were potentially avoided through early intervention for claims issues using ACE Smart Edits.
Transform Pharmacy Care Services
We are taking a focused, whole-person approach through our diversified pharmacy care services model. OptumRx is treating patients holistically, aligning pharmacy, medical and behavioral health needs using data and evidence-based protocols to enable end-to-end management of care. We remain focused on achieving the highest-quality outcomes, the lowest net cost of drugs for patients and the best patient experience.
PreCheck MyScript from OptumRx provides important coverage, cost 
and approval information at the time the prescription is being issued based on the patient's health care benefits. On average, members have saved $225 per prescription when prescribers selected the lower cost alternatives suggested by the PreCheck MyScript tool.277K
Providers using the tool
6.6M
Members
$225
Savings per prescriptionPRECHECK MYSCRIPT IMPACT
13
Next-Generation Health System      |      Achieving Better 
Health Outcomes
Achieving better health outcomes requires a coordinated approach 
to account for individual needs. We believe this is accomplished by strengthening home-based care, driving transparency and health literacy, improving chronic disease management and changing behaviors through prevention and wellness incentives to improve health outcomes. 
Reinvent Health Care Delivery
Through OptumCare, we are reinventing health care delivery globally in 35 U.S. regions and South America, serving over 25 million patients. Direct delivery of care by physicians is pivotal as OptumCare seeks to coordinate each patient's care journey with a focus on proactive, preventive medicine, especially for those with the most acute needs. We apply our consumer engagement platform, Rally, and the Individual Health Record program together with OptumCare’s practice capacities to identify conditions earlier and manage them more effectively.
Strengthen Home-based Care
Studies have shown that most people prefer to receive care at home rather than moving to an institution or receiving treatments in a facility. UnitedHealth Group has developed a series of programs that enable patients to safely and effectively receive care from the comfort of their home.
 •Virtual Visits: Provides patients with online and mobile access to care, enabling eligible UnitedHealthcare members to talk with a doctor 24/7 by video without an appointment. Doctors can provide diagnoses for a range of nonemergency medical conditions and prescribe and send medications as needed. Virtual visits usually cost less than $50 and typically take about 20 minutes to complete.
 •Vivify: Provides patients with an at-home monitoring system that can consolidate data from any biometric sensor (such as a blood glucose monitor or pulse oximeter) and any consumer tracking device and make the data available to their clinician. Timely alerts prompt the clinician to proactively conduct interventions over text messaging, video or phone. Today, more than 70 health systems and provider organizations – with a total of over 800 facilities – are using the Vivify platform.
Drive Transparency and Health Literacy
Navigating the health care system can be challenging. It’s estimated that more than 90 million adults have low health literacy or difficulty understanding and using their health information, which is linked to poor health outcomes. UnitedHealth Group research estimates improving health literacy can reduce emergency room visits by 10% and hospitalizations by 18%. Our health literacy programs include:
 •Health Literacy Innovations Program: Instills health literacy into our culture by promoting the development of simple, accessible and understandable communications, programs and services.
 •Just Plain Clear® Glossary: Defines thousands of health care terms in English, Spanish and Portuguese to help consumers make informed health care decisions. Won a Gold Aster award for Outstanding Patient Education Website.
HouseCalls
Factors such as social isolation can impede many seniors’ ability to obtain the health services they need, which can place them at greater risk for developing undiagnosed conditions, unmonitored worsening of existing conditions, and declining mental health.
Our HouseCalls program provides Medicare 
Advantage members with an in-home annual medical exam by an advanced practice clinician. The goal of a HouseCalls visit is to bring health services to members who may be unable or unwilling to travel to receive needed care. During the visit, the clinician conducts a complete health history overview and physical exam, identifies health risks and gaps in care, and identifies any factors that may be negatively impacting the patient’s health. Each assessment results in an individualized care plan and referrals to additional social services, if necessary.SPOTLIGHT
2.2K Clinicians completing HouseCalls
1.7M  In-home visits administered
14% Reduction in hospital admissions
900K+ Referrals to care management programs
1.5M+ Gaps in care closed
99%  Member satisfaction
91% Repeat visit acceptanceHOUSECALLS IMPACT IN 2019
13 Next-Generation Health System      |      14
|      Next-Generation Health System
Special Needs Initiative
Families with children who have special needs often 
encounter additional barriers in securing appropriate care. UnitedHealth Group created the Special Needs Initiative in 2017 to serve families who have children with special health care needs from birth to age 17. Advisers proactively identify eligible families and resolve issues on behalf of the families and their health care providers.
“This particular program is wonderful. I don't believe 
you can do anything additional … All insurance carriers should do it and feel this is fantastic. I thank you very much. ”
– Anonymous Special Needs Program Family Member
The Special Needs Initiative was created in 2017 
to help remove barriers to care, ease the burden of health system navigation and improve member experiences by bringing an enhanced level of service to families of children with special needs. The program serves families who have children with special health care needs from birth to age 17. Families that are eligible for the program are proactively identified and assigned a single-point-of-contact adviser. Advisers resolve issues on behalf of the families and their health care providers, create custom care plans, provide care coordination and arrange for access to social services.SPOTLIGHT
100K Families enrolled
23% Reduction in claims rework
8% Reduction in inpatient visits
23% Reduction in appeals
$8M In out-of-pocket savings
$1.1-$1.4K Medical cost savings per child per yearSPECIAL NEEDS INITIATIVE IMPACT SINCE 2017Improve Chronic Disease Management
Patients with chronic or complex conditions including cancer, diabetes, chronic kidney disease and mental health disorders often need additional support to maintain and improve their overall health. By 2030, an estimated 80 million Americans will suffer from three or more chronic conditions. 
Optum’s disease management programs work to combine proactive 
patient outreach, interdisciplinary care coordination, and actionable data and insights to improve care delivery, resulting in closing over 105 million gaps in patient care in 2019.
Diabetes Management
Over 30 million Americans currently live with diabetes. Without 
proper interventions, up to 1 in 3 Americans may suffer from diabetes by 2050. Managing diabetes is highly dependent on patient self-management.  However, nearly 50% of diabetes patients fail to meet their target glucose levels. UnitedHealth Group’s Diabetes Management Program uses individualized care plans and digital support to make it easier. Through this program, patients have access to a care team that can consist of designated registered nurse care coaches, medical directors, pharmacists, social workers, behaviorists and registered dietitians. The care team and patients use digital tools to communicate with each other, set goals, track progress and monitor biometrics from insulin pumps and glucose monitors. The care team also works with patients to arrange referrals for other programs, such as Real Appeal – which offers weight loss coaching – or the Diabetes Health Plan – which offers reduced or waived copays for diabetes-related office visits. 
In 2019, our Diabetes Disease Management program helped patients 
identify and close over 14 million gaps in their diabetes care. 
Personalized Care for Complex Populations
Individuals facing complex illnesses often face unique challenges in navigating the health care system. We have developed multiple programs to better serve patients by creating a fully coordinated and personalized experience, enabled by data-driven insights that have consistently shown higher health outcomes at lower costs. This is made possible through programs designed to close gaps in care for patients who are not receiving the care recommended for them, and a specialized focus on how to best serve children with special needs who have additional complexities in receiving basic health care.105M+
Gaps in care closed in 201915
Next-Generation Health System      |      
Changing Behaviors through Prevention and Wellness
Our Rally wellness platform helps members maintain and improve their health with personalized tools, challenges, rewards and support 
to address tobacco cessation, sleep issues, healthy eating and stress reduction.
Rally’s unique program provides individuals with a single destination to manage their health by engaging members through health surveys, 
personalized prevention and support programs, rewards, coaching and support and transparency tools. Rally is now available to 55 million consumers nationwide and has paid over $1.7 billion in health-related incentives since 2016.
RALLY IMPACT
51%
Quit rate through Quit-for-Life tobacco cessation program68%
Sleeping program participants report more sleep61%
Healthy eating program participants report improved diets90%
Stress reduction program participants report improvement in stress management16
|      Next-Generation Health SystemEnable Data and Insights to Improve Care
Public health officials, researchers and policy-makers are faced with 
the important task of improving community health and well-being. However, in many instances, they lack actionable data to objectively identify risks and opportunities to public health, as well as track health trends over time. We have resources dedicated to using data, insights and research as well as deploying clinical trials and pilot programs to improve care.
OptumLabs
OptumLabs was formed as a collaborative for leading health services, 
researchers and data scientists to apply an array of analytics to solve real-world health care challenges. Bringing the right resources together can be challenging, and health care data can be difficult to evaluate, access and accurately aggregate into sufficiently large data sets to enable high-value analytics. 
OptumLabs partners with leading organizations, including the 
Mayo Clinic, University of California Health System, Johns Hopkins University and AARP, to develop insights using this data. Through these partnerships, UnitedHealth Group published 49 peer-reviewed research papers in 2019 on topics including cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, mental health, opioid use and hearing loss. 
UnitedHealth Group Research & Development
UnitedHealth Group’s Research & Development (R&D) function is 
an innovation engine intended to positively impact patient health on a global scale. Our R&D efforts are driven by math, data and clinical science, but also focus on the human connections required to understand, manage and prevent the chronic diseases that afflict nearly half of the world’s population. To do so, our team tracks the latest in science, technology, and clinical care, including what we can learn from our own data. We then apply this information via research studies, clinical trials, and pilot programs that identify new ways to prevent, detect, and intercept disease for our members.
Advance Evidence-based Medicine
Addressing real-world health care challenges often requires the collaboration of leading health care researchers, accessing complex health care data sets and applying the latest analytic techniques. This combination of assets leads to improvements in evidence-based health care design and delivery, clinical outcomes and health care costs. Bringing these needed resources together can be difficult as health care data is often hard to evaluate and difficult to accurately aggregate into evidence-based findings. That’s why we’re collaborating with leading health care researchers and academicians to advance actionable evidence-based research to help solve some of health care’s biggest challenges. 
For additional information, please visit
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/what-we-doRewarding Quality, 
Effective Care
UnitedHealth Group maintains a relentless focus on quality, and we 
believe health care quality can be improved through incentivizing high-performing physicians to focus on patient outcomes.
Value-based Care and Incentivizing  
High-Performing Physicians
UnitedHealth Group is committed to expanding value-based care, 
a model that reimburses providers based on the quality of care they deliver and patients’ health outcomes. We recognize the importance of keeping people healthy and rewarding physicians for coordinating and providing the appropriate care.
Historically, the health care system has operated by paying care 
providers based on the quantity of services they deliver. We are focused on shifting the focus to reimbursing care providers based on the quality of care they deliver and patients’ actual health outcomes. We are partnering with providers to ensure high-quality care for patients through:
 •Valued-Based Arrangements and Bundled Payments We have been a leader in establishing Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs), which are partnerships with care providers and hospitals assigned responsibility for caring for a defined group of members and incentivized to maximize the quality of patient outcomes. These agreements reward physicians for keeping people healthy by coordinating care, achieving positive health outcomes and preventing dangerous and costly complications. In 2019, UnitedHealthcare had $79 billion worth of payments tied to value-based care arrangements.
 •Physician Quality and Efficiency Ratings UnitedHealth’s Premium® program develops designations for physicians based on quality and cost-efficiency. The program includes quality information for more than 380,000 physicians, which is used by UnitedHealthcare members to select providers. Physicians can access the specific data used to determine their designation and how they compare to other physicians treating similar patients and conditions.
87%
Increase in quality performance for ACOs 
servicing employer-sponsored plan participants compared to non-ACOs
17%
Lower hospital admission rates for ACOs serving employer-sponsored and individual plan participants compared to non-ACOsVALUE-BASED CARE IMPACT17
Next-Generation Health System      |      17 Next-Generation Health System      |      Building Healthier Communities
At UnitedHealth Group, we combine our knowledge, expertise 
and compassion to support the communities where we live and work. Our philanthropic efforts are an extension of our mission, to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. Through our foundations – the United Health Foundation, and the UnitedHealthcare Children’s Foundation – and our businesses, we provide grants to local and national organizations, help families who need medical support and invest in solutions to address social determinants of health including affordable housing and food security. We also make in-kind contributions, participate in disaster relief efforts and volunteer our time and resources to support important causes around the world to help provide high-quality affordable health care for everyone.
Since 2000, we have contributed more than $1 billion to the 
communities where we live and work. Through our company’s targeted grant-making activities, as well as those of the United Health Foundation, we are cultivating the future health workforce, connecting individuals to quality care, improving the care experience and helping seniors, children and vulnerable populations achieve better health. 
United Health Foundation
Founded in 1999, the United Health Foundation is committed to 
developing and supporting innovative and evidence-based activities that help the health system work better. The foundation identifies meaningful partnerships and initiatives that have the potential to be scaled – leading to improved access to care, better health outcomes and healthier communities.
Approach to Philanthropy
We believe that through partnerships with trusted organizations we can improve the health and well-being of people. We focus on collaborating with our partners to understand the specific health challenges faced by the local communities we serve. 
Informed by UnitedHealth Group’s expertise, experience and 
broad capabilities, we deploy a disciplined approach to cultivating strategic philanthropic partnerships, such as issuing a Request for Proposal (RFP) to select organizations that align with our mission and funding objectives. We conduct multidimensional evaluations of RFP responses that include in-depth discussions with each applicant to identify metrics and measures of success that best reflect our philanthropic objectives.
We are focused on establishing enduring relationships with our 
philanthropic partners and seek to become a partner of choice through additional support such as opportunities for our employees to volunteer and provide in-kind support. Through an annual survey of our grant partners, we have learned our partners’ experiences with the United Health Foundation have remained consistently positive, with partners noting the benefits of connectivity to different parts  
of our company.
America’s Health Rankings
For more than three decades, United Health Foundation’s America’s Health Rankings has provided an analysis of national health on a state-by-state basis by evaluating a historical and comprehensive set of health, environmental and socio-economic data to determine national health benchmarks and state rankings. As the longest running state-by-state analysis of our nation’s health, America’s Health Rankings provides actionable, data-driven insights that stakeholders can use to understand a population’s health in a holistic, inclusive manner and affect positive change.SPOTLIGHT
Annual ReportAnalyzes a comprehensive set of behaviors, public and health policies, community and environmental conditions, and clinical care data to provide a holistic view of the health of the people across the country.
Senior ReportPresents a comparative health analysis for the U.S. population aged 65 and older.
The Health of Women 
and Children Report
Focuses on women of reproductive age, infants and children under age 18, emphasizing the population groups where change can make generational differences.
Health of Those Who Have 
Served Report
Explores the differences in health and health-related measures between those now serving or who have served in the military and the civilian population.$1B+
Contributed since 2000 to the  
communities where we live and work
17 Next-Generation Health System      |      REPORTS PRODUCED TO ADDRESS  
THE HEALTH OF THE NATION18
|      Next-Generation Health System
Affordable Housing Investments
UnitedHealth Group understands that access to safe and affordable 
housing is one of the greatest obstacles to better health, making it a determinant that affects people’s well-being and quality of life. Nearly 15 million Americans lack access to stable housing. The financial burden of unaffordable housing can prevent families from meeting other basic needs including nutrition and health care and is particularly significant for low-income families. 
In 2011, we began working with leading affordable-housing advocates 
to invest in real estate developments that would increase access to housing, health care and social services. UnitedHealth Group has surpassed $500 million in investments in new affordable housing 
to remove social barriers to better health for people in underserved communities, resulting in more than 5,400 new homes for seniors, veterans, individuals with disabilities and those struggling with homelessness in 84 communities in 19 states and Washington, D.C.
Unused Rx Donations
Unused, unopened or returned medications often go to waste 
because of requirements to destroy them. Through a partnership between the OptumRx Overland Park, Kansas, home delivery facility and the state of Kansas, the state Legislature passed the Kansas Unused Medication Donation Act in 2008. The act allows for the donation of unused medications by adult care homes, mail service pharmacies and medical care facilities to Federally Qualified Health Centers, health care clinics serving indigenous people and community mental health centers in the state of Kansas.
Since the program’s implementation, we have donated more 
than $30 million in prescription medications to help tens of thousands of Kansans in need. Donations include diabetic supplies, antibiotics and anti-depressants that are now being used to benefit thousands of Kansans who often lack access to the affordable medications they need.$500M+
Investments made for new affordable  
housing since 2011
$30M+
Prescription medications donated  
in Kansas since 2008Empowering Health 
Commitment 
We think about food as medicine, so we’re enabling 
food banks to provide more fresh, healthy food by investing in refrigeration, training, mobile food pantries and meal delivery programs. That’s why UnitedHealthcare established Empowering Health, a commitment to expand access to care and address social determinants of health. Since 2018, the food banks we supported have distributed over 47 million meals to communities where we live and work. 
In Tennessee, the Mid-South Food Bank was able 
to purchase two Nutrition on Wheels refrigerated mobile pantry trucks and three refrigerator/freezer units for school-based food pantries. The Nutrition on Wheels trucks visit medical clinics and senior centers that serve uninsured and underserved Memphis residents, including medical clinics operated by other Empowering Health partners, and distribute fresh and healthy food to the people who need it most. Through these efforts, Mid-South Food Bank has been able to provide more than 260,000 meals to residents of Memphis and surrounding areas.
Circle the City 
Partnership
Maricopa County, Arizona, has an estimated 
71% of the state's homeless population. To address the complex health care needs of individuals experiencing homelessness, the United Health Foundation is partnering with Circle the City in Phoenix, Arizona, through a three-year, $1 million grant to help the organization provide health care services in a new Medical Respite Center at the Maricopa Human Services Campus. The organization’s homeless continuum of care is one-of-a-kind in the state and is a model for the nation.
The expanded physical, mental health and social 
services at the new location are enabling Circle the City to continue to support patients in successful transitions from inpatient to outpatient settings and implement key processes and analytics to triage frequent users to appropriate levels of intervention within the organization’s services. Circle the City delivered over 8,700 medical or behavioral health encounters to nearly 200 individuals in 2019. All residents received a comprehensive care management plan, with 90% of residents completing their medical plan. As a result, 72% of patients achieved better health outcomes and were discharged from respite care to supportive housing environments in the Phoenix area.
19
Next-Generation Health System      |      
$50M
Total contributions supporting causes and 
communities around the world in 2019
19K
Charities supported worldwide in 2019 through the United for Giving program 
2.6M
Total employee volunteer hours donated in 2019UNITED FOR GIVING PROGRAM IMPACTDisaster Relief
UnitedHealth Group focuses and coordinates community-based disaster relief efforts through local business leaders and with nonprofit partners that provide direct relief to those in need. These efforts are tailored to the impacted communities and are coordinated closely with local authorities to ensure our response is timely and impactful. Additionally, UnitedHealth Group operates a Help Line staffed by our trained mental health specialists who offer free emotional support to people affected by disasters. We also provide our members who have been impacted by a disaster with timely and actionable resources to help find a care provider or obtain early prescription refills. 
Employee Giving and Volunteerism
Our employees have a long history of giving generously to charitable causes they care deeply about and volunteering their personal time, skills and energy to serve others. United for Giving, UnitedHealth Group’s year-round giving program, supports employees’ desires and efforts to give back to the communities where they live and work. 
Through United for Giving, we support our employees and the 
causes they care most about by matching employee contributions – dollar for dollar – to nearly all nonprofit organizations, doubling their impact. In addition, employees who volunteer 30 hours each year, earn a $500 giving reward to donate to the nonprofit of their choice. 
In 2019, our employee giving program resulted in a total contribution 
of $50 million, including $23.3 million in matching donations, to over 19,000 charities worldwide. Our employees also donated 2.6 million hours of volunteer time in 2019.UnitedHealthcare Children’s Foundation
Founded in 1999, UnitedHealthcare Children’s Foundation (UHCCF) seeks to improve children’s lives and help families gain access to the care they need through medical grants. UHCCF embraces and supports the concept of facilitating access to health-related services that have the potential to significantly enhance either the clinical condition or the quality of life of the child, and that are not fully covered by the available commercial health insurance plan. UHCCF provides financial assistance toward the family’s share of the cost of medical services.
Since 2007, UHCCF has awarded 23,000 grants valued at $51 million 
to children and their families across the United States. Families can receive up to $5,000 annually per child ($10,000 lifetime maximum per child), and do not need to have insurance through UnitedHealthcare to be eligible. UHCCF is aiming to award 50,000 medical grants by 2030 to children and families in need. 
For additional information, please visit
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/what-we-do/building-healthier-communities
www.americashealthrankings.orgwww.uhccf.org20
|      Next-Generation Health System
Public Policy
UnitedHealth Group engages in efforts to help shape and 
inform public policy decisions that advance our mission. The 325,000 team members of UnitedHealth Group feel a deep obligation to engage in public policy discussions and meaningfully contribute to the development of the next-generation health system, in a socially conscious way.
Our Engagement
At UnitedHealth Group, our public policy engagement is focused on addressing the most pressing health care challenges and opportunities. Public policy efforts are led by UnitedHealth Group’s External Affairs organization, with engagement and partnership across the Optum and UnitedHealthcare businesses. Overall, key areas of focus include:
Developing and advancing public policy solutions.
Conducting internally generated research to 
unearth key insights on the most pressing issues facing the health care system. 
Partnering with leading academic institutions to 
work jointly on health care research and data analysis efforts.
Fostering strategic partnerships on policy and 
advocacy initiatives with key stakeholders.
Priorities 
We are committed to solutions that advance a modern, high-performing, simpler health care system built on the strengths and successes of today’s health care system.
We are advancing policy solutions that expand access 
to coverage to enable choice and competition, with the goal of achieving universal coverage. Our solutions leverage existing successful coverage platforms – employer-sponsored insurance, Medicaid and Medicare Advantage – that are providing cost-effective, consumer-responsive, and innovative health care benefits to an overwhelming majority of Americans today. We also support the modernization of Medicare Fee-For-Service by integrating care coordination capabilities and other value-based, private-sector solutions – maximizing value for beneficiaries and the government.21
Next-Generation Health System      |      
We are focused on improving health care affordability with the 
goal of reducing health care cost trends nearer to general inflation –  
through care delivery reforms that improve the value health care 
consumers receive by transitioning nearly all health care and a significant portion of drug spending to value-based arrangements, and shifting care to more efficient sites of service. We also continue to support the elimination of harmful taxes and fees that increase the cost of coverage to workers and their families, taxpayers and government.
We are committed to enhancing the health care experience so it 
is simpler, more transparent and results in world-class consumer and physician satisfaction. Achieving a better experience requires more standardized and streamlined processes in quality measurement. We are also committed to building health care workforce capacity to help bolster a primary care workforce capable of advancing high-quality, affordable and convenient health care.
We are advancing solutions to drive better health outcomes by 
empowering an informed, engaged and aligned health system that uses evidence-based clinical pathways and reduces the burden of disease. Driving better outcomes necessitates universal access to digitally enabled individual health records; aligned incentives among providers, consumers and payers; tailored benefits and programs for individuals with multiple chronic conditions; and coordination of social and medical benefits to more effectively address determinants of health. 
Political Contributions 
In addition to our engagement in public policy activities, we make political contributions that have the potential to improve the delivery of health care and affect our business, employees and the communities in which we operate. Political contributions are made in accordance with our Political Contributions Policy. To promote transparency of our political contribution activity, we publish semi-annual political contribution reports on our website .
For additional information, please visit
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/insights-solutions
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance22
|      Our People and Culture
A Commitment to Our People and Culture
UnitedHealth Group is committed to building and engaging 
our team of 325,000 people. These team members serve from more than 2,300 locations across 17 countries, and communicate with our members, patients, providers and customers in up to 61 languages, all in service of our mission. 
We have adopted a core set of talent principles to guide how we 
achieve business success through our people and culture:
 •Know our talent as well as we know our business.
 •Have visibility to talent across the enterprise.
 •Expect our leaders to grow and support the movement of talent.
 •Treat leadership talent as an enterprise asset.
 •Use a consistent approach and criteria to make key talent decisions.
 •Make UnitedHealth Group known as a place to build careers through rich experiences.
 •Provide employees with clear expectations and feedback.
 •Create an inclusive environment where diverse people, experiences and perspectives make us better.
More than 150 leaders throughout the enterprise serve as culture facilitators, and over 24,000 culture ambassadors work to ensure our values are understood and demonstrated across the organization and that we are driving toward our desired culture. This volunteer culture community creates and leads culture and engagement activities and programs that underscore our commitment to health and wellness, inclusion and diversity, social responsibility and serving our customers, partners and each other.A Commitment to Human Rights
UnitedHealth Group believes supporting human rights is core to advancing our mission. We are committed to advancing a company culture that embraces inclusion, diversity, innovation and growth, while upholding the highest ethical standards in the way we operate internally and externally. In line with the United Nations’ Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, our commitment extends to respecting the human rights of all those with whom we engage and employ.Our People 
and Culture 
At UnitedHealth Group, we celebrate our people, ideas and experiences – creating a culture where 
all team members are appreciated, valued and able to reach their full potential. We join together as 
individuals, forming a team as diverse as the people we serve – one person at a time – tackling 
challenges and seizing the opportunity to improve health and health systems. IN THIS SECTION
Inclusion and Diversity →
Human Capital Management →Employee Health and Well-Being →
325K
People
2.3K+
Locations in 17 countries
61
Languages23
Our People and Culture      |      Inclusion and Diversity
At UnitedHealth Group, inclusion and diversity fuel the insights and 
ingenuity that make achieving our mission possible. 
Dave Wichmann, UnitedHealth Group CEO, signed the CEO Action 
for Diversity and Inclusion™, joining more than 750 CEOs of the world’s leading companies and business organizations, to affirm our commitment to advance workplace inclusion and diversity.
UnitedHealth Group named a chief inclusion and diversity officer 
and created a Center of Excellence to help drive and activate our culture, inclusion and diversity strategy and initiatives, including our internal business councils and external partnerships with local, regional and national organizations that share our commitment to inclusion and diversity. 
Culture, Inclusion and Diversity Councils
Our culture, inclusion and diversity councils — led by senior leaders — create strategies that drive value and impact, focusing on three key priorities: 
 •Diverse leadership advancement. 
 •Reducing the impact of unconscious bias and improving health equity and equitable access.
 •Being stewards and champions of our servant leader culture. 
Inclusion and Diversity Programs and Initiatives
 •Inclusion and Diversity Education. A dedicated inclusion and diversity learning system is available to all employees to help build greater knowledge and awareness of inclusion and diversity, create personal connections and develop new skills.
 •United We Belong: Celebrating Connections. A monthly educational series is offered to employees to celebrate and honor different cultures, perspectives and history. This helps us connect with each other on a deeper, more compassionate level and better understand the impact our history has on the realities we experience today. 
 •Connecting Communities. We are committed to finding modern ways to connect and engage diverse communities across our company. We are currently testing a digital platform to enable our team members to connect, share experiences, support one another and collaborate in ways that celebrate diversity and provide a sense of belonging and inclusion.
Human Capital Management
Talent Attraction
We have a bold mission that attracts individuals who are uncommonly talented, data-driven, determined to make a difference, and comfortable operating outside their comfort zone at an exhilarating pace. Our comprehensive talent sourcing strategy helps us identify diverse individuals who are intensely committed to our ambitious goals while never losing sight of the people we serve. Our environment is designed to empower our team members to do their life's best work in helping transform health care. IN THIS SECTION
Inclusion and Diversity →
Human Capital Management →Employee Health and Well-Being →
23 Our People and Culture      |      23 Our People and Culture      |      69%
Female
31%
MaleGLOBAL WORKFORCE GENDER DIVERSITY
U.S. WORKFORCE RACE & ETHNICITY
58%
White
1%
Other2%
Two or More 
Ethnic Groups
2%
Not Specified8%
Asian16%
Black/African
American
13%
Hispanic/ 
Latino24
|      Our People and CultureBuilding Our Diverse Team
We are committed to hiring a diverse workforce reflective of the 
people and communities we are privileged to serve. Our areas of focus include:
Racial and Ethnic Diversity 
Through partnerships with organizations including the Executive 
Leadership Council, INROADS, Prospanica, National Black MBA Association, Management Leadership for Tomorrow and Advancing Minorities' Interest in Engineering (AMIE), we seek to attract diverse talent, better support and engage with diverse communities and provide resources where they are most needed through board leadership and participation.
Disability Inclusion
Our enterprise strategy has evolved and substantially grown to 
promote more disability inclusion, and we are proud to launch an All Abilities Internship Program in 2020, to provide interns with disabilities meaningful employment opportunities. 
Military Internship Program
In partnership with the Department of Defense SkillBridge Program, 
UnitedHealth Group Military Internships provide career skills training and workforce reintegration to transitioning active duty service members across all branches of the United States military. This program has successfully converted 77% of interns into employees with 91% retention to date. 
LGBTQ+ Community 
We invest in the LGBTQ+ community to ensure everyone feels 
supported and is well served by supporting organizations such as the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, the LGBT Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA) Marketing trek, the ROMBA annual conference and various local Pride activities around the world. 
Early Career Opportunities
UnitedHealth Group creates opportunities for students to begin their 
careers at the company and see firsthand how they can contribute to the future of health care. In 2019, nearly 800 interns from more than 250 colleges and universities participated in our Enterprise Internship Experience. Our Technology Development Program is an early technology career program offering internship and full-time opportunities in eight states, India and Ireland, with more than 400 interns in 2019. Our MBA program has grown to over 100 interns, developing graduate students into future leaders who will directly impact the health care system for the betterment of individuals and communities. 
Talent Development 
At UnitedHealth Group, we understand the importance of identifying and providing opportunities for our people to achieve their personal goals and realize their full professional potential. 
Our continuous learning culture enables employees to seek high 
impact learning experiences and identify and close skill gaps to take advantage of career growth opportunities.
We are shifting our learning and development programs to offer 
more curated and experience-based learning opportunities, through learning ecosystems and learning experience platforms that leverage AI and machine learning to identify and provide individualized development opportunities. 
Our leadership development programs are targeted to experienced 
and emerging leaders focused on building our pipeline of women and diverse leaders within our organization.
Talent Management 
To maintain a sustainable and diverse talent pipeline of people of high character, we rely on our Common Language of Leadership (CLL), a shared language that clearly and objectively defines our expectations, enables an environment where everyone has the opportunity to learn and grow, and helps us identify, develop and deploy talent that will drive us toward achieving our mission.
CLL was introduced in 2019 to our senior leaders and managers. 
Since the introduction, 32% of our workforce, or 67,000 employees have conducted self-assessments in the CLL app and nearly 20% of our workforce has created a development plan as a result of their insights and manager discussions. We will continue to analyze aggregate results to assess the organization’s talent strengths and readiness to adapt to the dynamic needs of the enterprise.
Data-Driven Approach to Talent Review
We rely on data to consistently assess talent, identify strengths and 
gaps in our existing workforce, and identify leadership potential and development opportunities for critical talent. In 2019, we piloted an Assessment of Potential (AoP) tool to help us identify employees with the capacity to move into leadership roles. We used those results, combined with other data points, to create a Talent Index to assess talent within our organization and support decisions regarding succession planning and mobility opportunities. 
Employee Listening 
Listening to our team members is one way we help build and reinforce 
a culture of inclusion and encourage our employees to bring their best selves to work every day. In the past 10 years, we have measured employee sentiment annually through an Employee Engagement Index. Through focused and measurement-driven action, we have improved the employee experience, reduced turnover and increased productivity. As our workforce grows, diversifies and becomes more geographically dispersed, understanding the employee experience at a more local level has become more important. In 2018, we began transitioning to a continuous listening strategy that will enable us to collect and respond to employee feedback in a more timely and targeted manner. 
Since that transition, we have conducted four major employee surveys 
and collected more than 400,000 responses used to provide timely and actionable insights to leaders across our enterprise.
Pay Equity 
UnitedHealth Group is committed to pay equity for all employees. 
Fair and equitable compensation practices within a pay-for-performance framework support our culture and are critical to achieving our mission. We regularly perform reviews of our compensation practices and evaluate pay equity in several respects, including by gender, ethnicity and race. Our most recent review of our workforce
2 indicates there is no difference in pay between 
females and males performing similar work at similar levels. In addition, minority groups within the United States are paid the same as Caucasians performing similar work at similar levels.1.4K+
Interns and recent graduates from our programs hired to begin their careers at UnitedHealth Group in 201925
Our People and Culture      |      
Stride
Launched in 2019, Stride is a program that aims to make healthy 
living easier by giving employees access to resources on fitness, nutrition and stress management. 
One of our Stride goals is to promote healthy eating. To achieve 
this goal, we took several actions throughout 2019, including: 
 •Revamped on-site food policies to require that a minimum of 
70% of offerings be healthy options, including in our vending machines, company stores and cafeterias.
 •Eliminated sugary beverages, replaced soda machines with Bevi water machines and added tea and coffee selections in our break rooms. 
 •Offered Zipongo services – a digital nutrition platform that provides personalized meal recommendations based on biometrics and food preferences – to all our U.S. based employees. 
 •Implemented teaching kitchens and a food blog with recipes to increase food literacy.
We also launched Moving Minutes at select sites, encouraging team members to walk for 15 minutes following a meal during the workday. Additionally, in 2019, we launched Sanvello and Talk Space to support the mental health of our employees, a supplement to our existing Employee Assistance Program.Employee Health 
and Well-Being
UnitedHealth Group is committed to helping our employees 
manage their health and wellness, in addition to managing their health care costs.
Employee Benefits
Our employee benefit strategy is focused on providing all employees with choices and simplifying the benefits experience. Ultimately, we aspire to provide peace of mind and financial protection. We offer competitive health and well-being benefits options to regular full-time and part-time employees working at least 20 hours per week, and we significantly contribute to covering the cost of benefits.
Key employee benefits include: 
 •Paid paternity leave 
 •Work from home arrangements
 •Child care benefits 
 •Employee discounts 
 •Tuition reimbursement 
 •The United for Giving Program, which supports volunteering 
and charitable giving opportunities.
Rally for Health
Team members have access to the Rally well-being portal where  
they can find educational information and support on a variety of  
well-being topics. Team members and their spouses/domestic 
partners who are enrolled in an eligible medical plan are rewarded when they take an active role in their health by completing a health survey and biometric screenings. Employees can earn up to $600 ($1,200 if their spouse or domestic partner participates) for completing certain health actions when enrolled in an eligible medical plan. These rewards are paid either as medical plan premium discounts or as pretax health savings account contributions.70%+
On-site food offerings are required  
to include healthy options
For additional information, please visit
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/who-we-are/our-culture
www.stride.uhg.com26
|      Responsible Business Practices
Responsible  
Business Practices IN THIS SECTION
Corporate Governance →
Ethics and Compliance →Data Privacy and Cybersecurity →Supply Chain Management →
Corporate Governance
Strong and effective governance practices are critical to 
UnitedHealth Group’s long-term value creation. 
Our board has enhanced governance policies over time to align 
with best practices, drive sustained shareholder value and serve the interests of shareholders. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee reviews corporate governance practices at least annually and recommends modifications to strengthen our governance to the board for approval. Please review our proxy statement and Corporate Governance webpage for additional information on our corporate governance policies and board committees.  
Board Structure, Diversity and Independence 
We believe an effective board consists of a diverse group of individuals who bring a variety of complementary skills and a range of personal and business experience to their positions. The collective experience of our directors covers a wide range of geographies and industries including health care and clinical practice, insurance, consumer products, technology, capital markets and financial services, and roles in academia, corporate governance, government and business leadership. Our directors may serve on no more than three other public company boards and our CEO may serve on no more than one other public company board. 
We also strive to maintain a balance of tenure on the board, and since 
January 2017 we have appointed six new directors and five directors have retired. Independent board leadership is another important component of our governance structure. We separate the positions  
of CEO and chair, and our bylaws require the company to have either an independent chair of the board or a lead independent director. Shareholder Rights 
We value and respect the rights of our shareholders and have implemented strong shareholder practices. Our directors are elected annually by a majority vote of our shareholders. UnitedHealth Group does not have a dual class share structure and we have no supermajority shareholder approval provisions, as each share of common stock is entitled to one vote. We do not have a shareholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a ‘‘poison pill.’’ Shareholders have the right to call a special meeting and to act by written consent. Our bylaws also contain proxy access with standard market provisions.
Sustainability Governance
UnitedHealth Group has a long-standing commitment to sustainability. The Public Policy Strategies and Responsibility Committee oversees UnitedHealth Group’s public policy, health care reform and modernization activities, political contributions, external affairs, community and charitable activities, and corporate social responsibility. The executive vice president of Corporate Affairs is a member of the Office of the CEO, manages UnitedHealth Group’s sustainability efforts and engages external stakeholders on ESG initiatives.Our ability to lead in the development of the next-generation health system is supported 
by the management structure and responsible business practices we have developed over 
our more than 40-year history. 
Our principles of ethics and corporate governance outline the behaviors and responsibilities that 
provide the foundation for our actions, how we protect the data with which we are entrusted, and the expectations we set for our suppliers. These practices ensure we are working to achieve our 
mission in a manner consistent with our values and that protects the reputation of our company.
For additional information, please visit
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/who-we-are/our-culture/ethics-integrity27
Responsible Business Practices      |      
IN THIS SECTION
Corporate Governance →
Ethics and Compliance →Data Privacy and Cybersecurity →Supply Chain Management →Ethics and Compliance
At UnitedHealth Group, we understand the tremendous 
responsibility to do what is best for the health and well-being of the millions of individuals and families who rely on us. 
Our values — integrity, compassion, relationships, innovation and 
performance — guide our behavior and help us maintain the trust that comes with this responsibility. By adhering to our values, we are well-positioned to be a positive influence on the future of health care and achieve our mission of helping people live healthier lives and helping make the health system work better for everyone. 
Code of Conduct: Our Principles 
of Ethics and Integrity
Our Code of Conduct provides guidelines for helping us sustain 
the highest possible standards of ethical behavior in our work. The code sets our expectations for ethical conduct across our company, including:
 •Integrity
 •Accountability
 •Fair Competition and Fair Dealing
 •Privacy and Information Security
 •Our Assets and the Environment
 •Government Interactions
 •Communications
 •A Safe and Supportive Working Environment
UnitedHealth Group’s Compliance and Ethics Office maintains the Code of Conduct, reviewing it regularly to ensure continued support of our commitment to integrity and good corporate conduct.
Collectively, the expectations set forth in our Code of Conduct 
provide a clear guide for our employees to navigate potentially challenging ethical situations, including corruption and bribery, discrimination, confidentiality of information, conflicts of interest, and anti-competitive practices. The Code of Conduct applies to employees, contractors and subsidiaries. New team members are required to complete training on the code as part of their onboarding, and employees confirm annually they have read the code and will adhere to its principles. 
Senior leadership oversees the enterprise Compliance and Ethics 
program and provides regular reports to the Audit Committee of the 
UnitedHealth Group board of directors that detail performance on 
key ethics and compliance indicators. UnitedHealth Group's Internal Audit and Advisory Services department, in partnership with an independent audit firm, provides objective and credible audit and advisory services that identify and mitigate risks throughout the company to improve quality and enable growth across the enterprise, including periodic audits of the Compliance and Ethics program.
99.6%
Employees annually attesting  
to the Code of Conduct2Compliance and Ethics Policies  
and Related Documents
UnitedHealth Group maintains internal policies at the enterprise, business segment and department levels that provide more specific direction beyond the core elements of the Code of Conduct. Examples of key Compliance and Ethics policies include:
 •Anti-Corruption Policy 
 •Anti-Kickback Policy
 •Anti-Trust Policy
 •Conflicts of Interest Policy
 •Economic Sanctions and Sanctions Monitoring Policy
 •False Claims Acts Compliance Policy
 •Gifts and Entertainment Policy
 •Human Rights Policy
 •Insider Trading Policy
 •Interactions with Pharmaceutical, Medical Device or Biotech Manufacturers, Wholesalers or Distributors
 •Marketing Practices Policy
 •Non-Retaliation Policy
 •Outside Directorships Policy
 •Related-Person Transactions Approval
 •Social Media Policy and Guidelines
 •Travel and Expense Management Policy
 •U.S. Federal Government Contracting Policy
Reporting Concerns
We encourage our employees to speak up if they see an apparent violation of company policy, laws, regulations or contractual obligations. UnitedHealth Group provides many ways to report ethical, legal, regulatory and policy concerns, including the Compliance 
and Ethics HelpCenter . Any employee or outside party can report 
ethical concerns through the HelpCenter anonymously, where permitted by law, and are protected from retaliation whenever they report a concern in good faith. Reports are reviewed, analyzed and investigated by the appropriate officials within UnitedHealth Group. 
Expectations for Vendor and Partners
Our commitment to ethical standards extends to our external affiliates and partners through UnitedHealth Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which is incorporated in our contractual business agreements.
Marketing Practices
Our communications with our customers, members, employees, clinicians and other stakeholders reflect our values and our commitment to high standards of personal and institutional integrity. Our sales and marketing activities serve our business objectives, foster enduring relationships with our stakeholders, and build trust individual-by-individual. Our reputation stands upon the relationships we maintain with the public, the press and all who are touched by our company.
Marketing materials are reviewed for accuracy and clarity and 
for compliance with applicable laws and regulations, such as the Medicare Communications and Marketing Guidelines set by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Our materials contain straightforward descriptions of the services we offer so our members can make informed decisions about their health care and, together, we can help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone.28
|      Responsible Business PracticesData Privacy and 
Cybersecurity
We believe health care data and related information should be used 
solely for the purposes of improving individual health, advancing health system performance and to aid in new discovery.
While health care data and information are critical to our ability to 
serve the health care system, this information is highly sensitive and personal. As a result, we have an obligation to build and maintain the trust and confidence of our stakeholders, ensuring we can protect the information for all those we serve and fulfill our obligation to appropriately and properly use this information. The primary tools we use to fulfill these obligations are our cybersecurity and privacy and data governance programs.
UnitedHealth Group manages cybersecurity and privacy and data 
governance through a framework that provides our team members with training and resources that support their day-to-day activities, assesses the risks our company faces and establishes polices and safeguards to protect our systems and the information of those we serve. Our Code of Conduct outlines our commitment to protecting the information with which we are entrusted.
Supported by a comprehensive set of principles, our policies and 
programs describe appropriate uses of data and the safeguards that protect the confidentiality and integrity of our systems including, but not limited to:
 •Enterprise Information Security policies.
 •Enterprise Resiliency and Response Program.
 •An Incident Management Program that encompasses cybersecurity, privacy and compliance obligations.
 •Privacy and Data Protection policies, including guidance on information handling.
 •Enterprise Data Governance Program, including related policies.
 •Enterprise Risk Management and Information Risk Analysis programs. 
 •Safe with Me employee training and awareness program.
UnitedHealth Group’s chief information officer, chief privacy 
officer, and chief information security officer are responsible for administering our data privacy and security programs. The Audit Committee of the board of directors receives regular updates on critical issues related to our information security risks, cybersecurity strategy and business continuity capabilities.
Protecting Health Care Data
UnitedHealth Group works to continuously enhance our data protection practices and improve the standards for data security across our industry. 
Continuous Evaluation of our Systems
At UnitedHealth Group, we regularly evaluate the security maturity 
of our systems. This assurance program includes vulnerability assessments and penetration tests conducted by our internal team and qualified external assessors. These efforts allow us to identify operational and design risks and vulnerabilities in our systems. We use these tests to help us identify opportunities to address emerging security threats and improve the security of our systems as we continually work to enhance our ability to protect the information and data to which we have access.
Annually, we conduct an enterprise information risk assessment 
(EIRA) in conjunction with UnitedHealth Group’s overall enterprise risk management assessment. In the EIRA, we complete a comprehensive review of internal and external threats and evaluate changes to the information risk landscape to inform the investments and program enhancements we will make in the coming year.
Industry Collaboration Through HITRUST
We believe protecting personal health information is the 
responsibility of the entire health care system. In 2008, UnitedHealth Group entered into a partnership with organizations from across our industry to develop a common security framework for the health care industry. The result of this collaboration is the HITRUST Risk Management Framework, which combines best practice standards from frameworks such as HIPAA, ISO, EU GDPR, NIST and PCI to provide a scalable, risk-based certification for health care organizations and organizations that participate in the health care supply chain. UnitedHealth Group uses this framework in conjunction with other vulnerability and risk assessments as part of our continuous monitoring framework to assess our key application and technical systems and continually enhance our cybersecurity practices.
UnitedHealth Group requires our highest risk third-party suppliers 
with access to our information systems, customer data or health plan member data, and acquired companies to provide evidence of their security controls and obtain and maintain a HITRUST certification or an acceptable alternate third-party validated assessment.29
Responsible Business Practices      |      Supply Chain Management
UnitedHealth Group partners with suppliers who are integral to 
helping us achieve our mission. Our supply chain consists of two distinct supplier bases: direct and indirect suppliers. UnitedHealth Group purchases pharmaceuticals and health care products through our direct suppliers and other goods and services (for example, Marketing, IT equipment and services, etc.) through our indirect suppliers. Our procurement departments collaborate with internal business segments to identify, engage and manage our supplier base to meet business objectives, enable growth and mitigate risk for UnitedHealth Group and the individuals it serves. We maximize value in our supply chain by creating competitive markets for our internal business needs to ensure we buy the right goods and services, from the right suppliers, for the right price. 
Vendor Risk Management
UnitedHealth Group executes an enterprise-wide Vendor Risk Management Program that is centrally managed by Enterprise Sourcing & Procurement (ES&P). This program serves as the structure and framework for vendor risk management and includes a set of common standards, including regulatory and compliance requirements, applicable to suppliers that participate in the health care value chain. The program identifies supplier risk and provides contractual assurance that regulatory requirements are met prior to providing goods or services to UnitedHealth Group. The program also assists in ensuring the company’s Code of Conduct is being followed.
Because UnitedHealth Group is entrusted to protect individuals’  
most sensitive and personal health data, we place the utmost 
importance on protecting our data and information systems.  
In support of that objective, we require suppliers with access to our information systems, customer data or health plan member data to have the appropriate security controls in place prior to doing business with us. The assurances we obtain and maintain may include a supplier obtaining and maintaining their HITRUST certification or  
an acceptable alternate third-party validated assessment. 
Promoting Supplier Best Practices
We ensure our suppliers meet our performance expectations through a systematic Supplier Performance Management Program that monitors each supplier’s performance on a monthly basis on contractual Service Level Agreements related to service delivery, quality and value delivery. 
Data-driven supplier performance scorecards are shared quarterly 
with executive leadership to identify performance trends and areas of opportunity in order to develop improvement plans for underperforming suppliers. Suppliers are evaluated on criteria such as financial stability, cybersecurity and regulatory compliance, organization resiliency, diversity participation and Net Promoter Score. 
30
|      Responsible Business PracticesAdding Value and Reducing Costs in the 
Health Care Supply Chain
Pharmacy is the most frequent touch point in health care. Our 
OptumRx business works directly with pharmaceutical manufacturers to secure discounts that lower the overall cost of medications. Through our pharmacy care services model, we provide whole-person care that aligns pharmacy and medical needs to achieve lower net costs, decrease the total cost of care, improve health outcomes and simplify the consumer experience. 
We also operate a mail-order service and function as a specialty 
pharmacy and infusion provider, working directly with drug wholesalers and distributors to ensure consistency of the brand and generic drug supply and a reliance on that drug supply. In addition, we contract directly with pharmaceutical manufacturers for the procurement of specialty medications and infusion therapies for distribution to various sites of care, including home delivery.
Supplier Diversity 
UnitedHealth Group’s supplier diversity program demonstrates our commitment to developing a supplier base that reflects our communities and the customers we serve. Fulfilling this commitment helps drive value creation for our business, positively impacts the communities we serve, and allows us to extend our societal impact beyond our members and customers.  Our supplier diversity program is managed through our ES&P team. Every RFP managed by the ES&P team targets inclusion of at least one diverse supplier, where available. RFPs are evaluated through a balanced scorecard that considers supplier diversity alongside other factors such as cost, quality and service delivery. In addition, supplier diversity objectives are built into the development strategies and the annual performance objectives for all categories managed by the ES&P team. 
Our ES&P team works to identify opportunities for certified minority-
owned, women-owned, veteran-owned, disability-owned, LGBTQ+-owned and other historically underutilized businesses. We also work with state and local government agencies, minority business groups and advocacy organizations to identify sourcing opportunities for diverse suppliers where possible.
UnitedHealth Group’s Tier 2 supplier diversity program extends our 
supplier diversity efforts deeper into our supply chain. Through this program, participating suppliers are expected to incorporate supplier diversity into their own sourcing practices. UnitedHealth Group receives a supplier diversity spending report from each participating supplier on a quarterly basis.
In 2020, UnitedHealth Group will facilitate several development 
events designed to build the capabilities of our diverse suppliers. These events will focus on initiating and maintaining strong customer relationships and developing effective digital marketing, among other topics. We will also initiate a formalized mentoring initiative that partners diverse suppliers with our employees to enhance key supplier capabilities. 
31
Responsible Business Practices      |      
SPOTLIGHT
Achieving Better Health 
Through Supplier Diversity
Connecting our members to clinically and culturally 
competent care is a critical part of building healthier communities and achieving better health outcomes. One way our supplier diversity initiative supports these efforts is by better enabling us to identify and connect with vulnerable populations. HealthCare Dynamics International (HCDI) is a clinician-founded, minority- and woman-owned business that applies culturally and linguistically appropriate grassroots engagement strategies for hardest to reach members to improve the quality of care. HCDI’s work helps close care gaps for individuals who need care but may be fearful or unable to seek it. We use their evidence-based, innovative “Caring for Your Health” tool to address the social determinants of health to close four HEDIS and Value-Based Purchasing (VBP) gaps in care. From 2018 to 2019, HCDI results reflected a 55% increase in member engagement and a 187% increase in gap closures. HCDI’s work, as well as the work of many of UnitedHealth Group’s diverse supplier partners, is a critical part of delivering high-quality health care for our members. Impact
Since 2014, UnitedHealth Group has spent over $3 billion with  
diverse suppliers. We have conducted an impact assessment3 of 
our diverse supplier spending to better understand how our efforts 
are supporting local communities. The study considers the direct economic impact our spending has on our suppliers, the indirect impact our suppliers have on their suppliers and the impact our investments have on the communities where our suppliers operate.  
In 2019, our direct spending contributed to over $1.3 billion in revenues earned by businesses in UnitedHealth Group’s diverse supply chain and their communities. In addition, our direct spending supported over 10,600 jobs and $566 million in employee wages. 
$1.3B
Revenues earned by businesses in UnitedHealth Group's diverse supply chain and their communities
10K+
Jobs supported by our direct spending, including $566 million in employee wages
Supplier Diversity Partnerships and Recognized Certifications
 •National Minority Supplier Development Council  and 24 regional affiliates
 •Women Business Enterprise National Council 
and nine state affiliates
 •U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
 •National Veterans Business Development Council
 •Disability:IN
 •National LGBT Chamber of Commerce 
 •National Association of Women Business Owners
55%  Increase in member engagement
187%  Increase in gap closuresHCDI RESULTS FROM 2018 TO 2019
For additional information, please visit
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/suppliers
31 Responsible Business Practices      |      32
|      Environmental Health
Environmental  
Health 
At UnitedHealth Group, we understand the 
important role the environment plays in the health 
of every community. It represents a key part of 
what makes the communities in which we live and work sustainable, viable and healthy. To achieve our mission, we are committed to mitigating our 
impact on the environment. 
We encourage and promote environmentally 
responsible behavior by our company, our employees and our partners.IN THIS SECTION
Governance →
Environmental Stakeholder 
Engagement→
Environmental Stewardship→
7, 3 9 8
Waste Disposed
(Metric Tonnes) 
6,415
Paper Recycling
(U.S. Tons)7, 9 6 4
Waste Used/ 
Recycled/Sold
(Metric Tonnes)
Governance
Our environmental expectations, goals and strategies to manage 
our energy, waste and water use are outlined in our Corporate Environmental Policy and Environmental Impact Statement. We work to decrease our company’s overall environmental impact by reducing our carbon footprint, ensuring efficient use of water and energy, developing and implementing comprehensive recycling and waste management programs, and engaging our employees and partners through thoughtful, goals-based environmental stewardship. 
The Public Policy Strategies and Responsibility Committee of the board 
of directors oversees UnitedHealth Group’s Corporate Environmental Policy. The vice president of Global Operations and Facilities Management facilitates the enterprise’s environmental management efforts, including but not limited to goal setting, strategy development, performance and risk management, project execution and reporting. Oversight is provided by UnitedHealth Group’s chief financial officer and senior vice president of Corporate Services. 
Global Operations and Facilities Management leads our 
Environmental Management Team, a cross-functional working group including representatives from Corporate Services, Corporate Affairs, ES&P, and Enterprise Health and Safety. The membership also includes business representatives from Optum and UnitedHealthcare. 
2019 WASTE BY DISPOSAL METHOD33
Environmental Health      |      IN THIS SECTION
Governance →
Environmental Stakeholder 
Engagement→
Environmental Stewardship→
Environmental 
Management System
UnitedHealth Group maintains an 
Environmental Management System (EMS) in collaboration with our real estate services partner, Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL), to manage environmental data and compliance obligations. Environmental performance data and results, a variety of third-party tools and assessments and input from internal and external stakeholders are used for an annual EMS evaluation and alignment with an independent audit performed every three years. 
Reducing Paper Waste
UnitedHealth Group’s Shred All Program allows us to securely protect and ultimately shred our paper documents. Since the Shred All Program launched in 2010, UnitedHealth Group has standardized and optimized the program results and strengthened compliance, and we have securely destroyed and recycled 72,766 tons of paper and saved more than 1.2 million trees. In 2019 alone, we securely destroyed and recycled 6,415 tons of paper and saved more than 109,000 trees. 
In addition to our Shred All Program, UnitedHealth Group has invested in digital capabilities to minimize the amount of paper in our 
business operations. Our members opt in to receive communications such as informational letters, explanation of benefits, and health statements digitally, which also benefits them as they receive communications more quickly and via their preferred method. In 2019 we sent more than 375 million documents digitally to members.UNITEDHEALTH GROUP LEED CERTIFIED FACILITIES 
(MILLION SQ. FT .)  |
3.02019201820172016
  |0.0  |1.0  |2.034
|      Environmental HealthEnvironmental Stakeholder 
Engagement
We engage our stakeholders to help achieve stated goals 
and leverage our stewardship efforts.
Employees 
Our culture empowers team members to become aware of and engage in actions to preserve the environment, conserve natural resources and reduce energy in our business operations
At our Optum headquarters in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, employees 
have formed a self-initiated Green Team to identify and implement environmental programs in their workplace. In less than a year, the team, which has grown to over 40 employees, has conducted interviews and assessments to identify waste, energy and water improvement opportunities that could reduce the impact of the campus on the environment. The team has collaborated with executive leadership to implement composting programs in line with our 2018 waste assessment. In addition, they helped develop the “Dine In” option in the Café, whereby employees eating in the cafeteria have the option to use reusable plates and silverware – reducing single-use food waste containers. Going forward, the Green Team’s efforts will frame strategies to broaden more employee engagement opportunities. 
Suppliers and Partners 
We engage our suppliers and business partners to reduce the environmental impact of our supply chain. Notably, we engage our partners to ensure efficient distribution and logistics. We formally review the sustainability practices of our most critical suppliers to identify supplier policies and goals for waste and carbon reduction, recycling and other sustainability measurements. Over the past two years, we assessed an average of 500 suppliers annually to or approximately 30% of our annual spend, to understand practices in these areas in support of maturing our supply chain sustainability program. The results of these assessments are being used to better understand how we will evaluate supplier environmental risk and performance in the future, and we plan to launch a formal supplier sustainability program in 2020.
Products and Services 
We remain focused on introducing innovative approaches, products and services that minimize the impact our enterprise has on the environment, improve personal health and promote healthier populations in local communities. OptumRx Sustainable 
Packaging
In 2018 OptumRx became the first major 
pharmacy care services company to introduce fully sustainable medication packaging. The updated packaging replaced foam and polystyrene with 100% renewable cotton that is biodegradable, compostable, reusable and recyclable. This packaging delivers temperature-sensitive prescriptions to consumers' homes while ensuring the safety and quality of the medication remain intact. By using the new packaging to deliver more than 5 million prescriptions in 2019, OptumRx had annual savings of:SPOTLIGHT
3M+
Pounds of carbon dioxide
27M+
Gallons of water
4M
Kilowatt hours of energy
For additional information, please visit
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/what-we-do/environment35
Environmental Health      |      Environmental Stewardship
At UnitedHealth Group, we work to minimize the impact our business operations have 
on the environment by promoting a company culture that enables energy and natural resource conservation. We concentrate our efforts in the following areas
4: 3.87%
Carbon Reduction YOYApproach Goal ProgressEnergy and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) EmissionsWater Waste and Recycling
 •Decrease our environmental impact through energy conservation and renewable energy. 
 •Incorporate energy efficiency and high-performance design in construction practices.
 •Invest annually in energy efficiency projects to reduce carbon emissions.  • Implement measures that ensure the efficient use of water within our operations.
• In 2016, water usage was evaluated at sites in water sensitive regions.
• In 2017, water usage was evaluated in the balance of the controllable domestic office portfolio.
• In 2018, water-related projects were developed at 33 locations.• Divert waste from landfills while minimizing overall waste generated in our operations.
• In 2018, we conducted a waste assessment at the Optum headquarters, UnitedHealth Group’s largest office facility, to identify waste reduction opportunities.
• Identify opportunities to implement waste and recycling best practices across the global portfolio.
Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 (Market-Based) GHG emissions by 3% by the end of 2023 from our 2017 baseline (for our U.S. administrative portfolio and large pharmaceutical sites).In 2019, UnitedHealth Group established 
a goal to implement water efficiency measures across our controllable  
domestic office portfolio (70 U.S. locations in 18 states) to ensure a minimum of 75% of the occupied square footage meets or exceeds LEED guidelines for indoor water efficiency by the end of 2020.In 2019, we established a goal to implement an enhanced waste management pilot program at the Optum corporate headquarters, focused on: 
• Incorporating organics recycling programs. 
• Evolving recycling practices.
• Diverting waste from landfills. 
The intent of the pilot program is to identify how program elements impact our waste diversion rate.
• UnitedHealth Group is on track to meet the intent of our multiyear market-based carbon reduction goal. Year-over-year carbon reduction is tracking at 3.87%.
• Annual third-party verification and assurance of energy consumption and GHG emissions.
• Secured over 8.2 million kWh of renewable energy through energy supply contracts at 16 facilities, offsetting 100% of Scope 2 emissions.
• UnitedHealth Group has over 2.1 million square feet of LEED certified facilities at our Minnesota headquarters campuses and across the India portfolio.
5• UnitedHealth Group is on track to meet our water goal. Water-related projects were implemented at 14 sites, which will reduce water usage by at least 2.6 million gallons per year.
• Annual third-party verification and assurance of water consumption.Optum Corporate Headquarters  
Pilot Activities:
• Implemented food waste composting from all back-of-house food service operations and catering events.
• Piloted a paper towel composting program aimed at educating team members about composting and promoting better sorting of paper towels from other waste streams.
• “Dine In” at the Café allows employees eating in the dining room to usereusable plates and silverware – reducing single-use food waste containers.
2019 Plastic Reduction Activities:
• All facilities in the Philippines and  
India have transitioned from single-use plastic bottles to glass bottles.
Annual third-party verification and  
assurance of waste disposal, recycling and shredded paper. 36
|      Performance Data
Performance Data  
Our People and Culture
2016 2017 2018 2019
Global Workforce 230,000 260,000 300,000 325,000
Employee Engagement* 82% 83% 83% NA
Employee Experience* NA NA NA 71%
Employee Volunteer Hours 1.3M 1.5M 2.5M 2.6M
Hours of Training per Employee 
(Average per FTE)54 42 43 52
Workforce Diversity
% Female (Global Workforce) 66% 69% 66% 69%
% Female (U.S. Workforce) 72% 74% 73% 73%
% People of Color (U.S. Workforce) 41% 38% 38% 40%
Gender Leadership Diversity% Female in Management Positions 55% 56% 55% 55%
% Female in Junior Management Positions 62% 63% 62% 62%
% Female in Top Management Positions NA 34% 38% 36%
% Female in Revenue-Generating Roles 63% 63% 63% 62%
People of Color Leadership Diversity (U.S. Workforce)% People of Color in Management Positions 25% 25% 25% 26%
% People of Color in Junior Management Positions 33% 32% 33% 34%
% People of Color in Top Management Positions 9% 10% 11% 11%
% People of Color in Revenue-Generating Roles 27% 27% 27% 27%
Workforce Generational Diversity
Gen X 50% 49% 47% 46%
Millennial 37% 40% 43% 45%
Baby Boomer 13% 11% 10% 9%
Traditionalist <1% <1% <1% <1%
Gen Z NA NA <1% <1%UnitedHealth Group tracks a variety of key performance 
indicators across our material topics.
*In 2019, we transitioned from employee engagement to a more comprehensive employee experience index which will be our new measurement going forward.37
Performance Data      |      
Responsible Business Practices
Corporate Governance 2017 2018 2019
One Share One Vote Yes Yes Yes
Proxy Access Yes Yes Yes
Say on Pay Frequency Annual Annual Annual
Directors on Board 11 11 11
Independent Directors 9 9 9
Female Directors 3 3 3
Directors of Color 2 2 2
Average Director Tenure 12.6 10.2 12.5
Separate CEO/Chair Yes Yes Yes
Lead Independent Director or Chair Yes Yes Yes
Majority Voting for Directors Yes Yes Yes
Supply Chain Management 2017 2018 2019
Supplier Diversity
Tier 16
Total Spend with Diverse Suppliers $617M $683M $683M
Diverse Suppliers 1,096 1,138 1,035
Average Spend/Diverse Supplier $563K $600K $650K
Tier 2
Participating Suppliers 40 50 60
Spend with Diverse Suppliers $60M $76M $95M
Economic Impact
Jobs Created and Sustained through the  
Supplier Diversity Program3 10,614
Supplier Sustainability
Suppliers Screened for Sustainability Programs & Practices 562 43338
|      Performance DataEnvironmental Health7
2016 2017 2018 2019
Energy (MWh)
Total Energy Consumption 372,857 366,475 365,005 375,673
Non-Renewable Energy Use NA NA 364,269 367,457
Renewable Energy Use NA NA 736 8,216
Reduction of Energy Consumption 1.7% 0.4% (2.9%)
Energy Intensity (per USD revenue, billions) 2,017.19 1,821.46 1,613.30 1,551.37
Carbon Emissions (mtCO2e)
Scope 1 15,838 16,570 13,933 17,709
Scope 2 (Location-Based) 161,303 156,719 153,754 153,004
Scope 2 (Market-Based) NA NA 155,700 149,418
Scope 3 146,373 127,671 298,680 429,812
Total (Scope 1 + 2 Location-Based) 177,141 173,289 167,687 170,713
Total (Scope 1 + 2 Location-Based + 3) 323,514 300,960 466,367 600,524
Emissions Reduction  
(Scope 1 + 2 Location-Based) (%)2.2% 3.2% (1.8%)
Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 + 2 Location-Based)  
(per USD revenue, billions)958.35 861.28 741.17 704.97
Water (Mio. m3)
Water 0.85 0.82 0.74 0.65
Waste (Metric Tonnes)
Total Waste Generated 13,487 15,898 15,521 15,361
Waste Used/Recycled/Sold  7,514  8,824  8,475 7,964
Confidential Paper Recycling (U.S. tons) 7,263 8,355 7,743 6,415
Waste Disposed 5,973 7,074 7,046 7,398
Environmental Operations (Square Feet, millions)LEED Certified Facilities 1.7 1.6 1.6 2.139Forward-Looking Statements
The statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook 
contained in this document include “forward-looking” statements which are intended to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the federal securities law. The words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “should” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions and trends and involve risks and uncertainties. We discuss certain risks that may affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations more fully in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Actual results may vary materially from expectations expressed or implied in this document or any of our prior communications. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 
Sources
1 From FORTUNE, ©2020 FORTUNE Media IP Limited. All rights 
reserved. Used under license. FORTUNE and FORTUNE World’s Most Admired Companies are registered trademarks of FORTUNE Media IP Limited and are used under license. FORTUNE is not affiliated with, and does not endorse the products or services of, UnitedHealth Group. 
2 Integrated employees only.
3 Economic impact modeling developed by CVM, a supplier.io 
company, based on an analysis of data provided by UnitedHealth Group and information from additional sources: US Federal and State Government Revenues: https://www.usgovernmentrevenue.com/total; US GDP Information: https://www.bea.gov/; IMPLAN: https://www.implan.com/; BEA Input-Output Multipliers: https://apps.bea.gov/regional/rims/rimsii/
4 Note that the UnitedHealth Group Environmental Policy includes 
several focus areas beyond those listed in the table. 
5 LEED is a globally recognized green building rating system that 
certifies high-performance design and construction practices.
6 Includes Opex, Medex and 2019 OptumCare's non-integrated 
entities diverse supplier data.
7 Please see UnitedHealth Group’s Environmental Impact Statement 
for detailed footnotes regarding this data.About this 
Report
This report covers our last complete 
fiscal year, dating January 1, 2019, to 
December 31, 2019. Please contact 
sustainability@uhg.com with any questions regarding this report or our sustainability practices.44
|      About UnitedHealth Group©2020 All Rights Reserved. 
Published 8/6/20