SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT  
2020Fulfilling Our Mission2   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
A MESSAGE FROM  
OUR CEO
UnitedHealth Group is a health and well-being company led by 330,000 team members united in our 
mission to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. We 
are pharmacists, physicians, nurses and social workers. We are technologists, data scientists, engineers 
and researchers. We are care advocates, administrators, project managers and more. 
Together, we are committed to helping build a compassionate and patient-centered health system that 
ensures every person has access to affordable, high-quality health care that meets their unique needs. 
While each of us brings a diverse set of experiences, perspectives and expertise, we share a profound 
sense of responsibility to ensure our company and society broadly become more sustainable each day. 
Within the pages of this report, you will find a comprehensive and transparent description of our 
commitments, actions and achievements: how we are helping to expand access to high-quality, affordable 
care for everyone, improve the experiences for providers and patients and achieve better health outcomes 
for the people we are privileged to serve. You will see examples of our progress in addressing health 
disparities and advancing health equity, including the investments we are making to build a more diverse 
and inclusive health workforce well beyond our own company – a workforce that reflects the breadth of 
the communities and people we are privileged to serve. 
Lastly, you will find stories of compassion, bravery, ingenuity and resilience as we describe how our 
team members continue to serve on the front lines of care and support the most vulnerable among our 
neighbors and communities during this extraordinary time of need. 
As a company, we view sustainability as a core element of our business strategy. We are constantly striving 
to ensure progress in our efforts by having clear and measurable goals and welcoming the engagement, 
input and accountability from our many stakeholders.
Importantly, we submit this report with a certain degree of humility. While we are proud of our progress to 
date, we understand just how much more work must be done to realize society’s collective aspirations and 
our potential as a company. We will continue to work in partnership with others across the health system 
and beyond to advance our mission and help to create a modern, high-performing health system.
Sincerely, 
Andrew Witty  
CEO, UnitedHealth GroupUNITEDHEALTH GROUP   3
Sustainability is an extension of our business strategy, culture and mission as we work 
to help ensure the health care system works better for everyone. At UnitedHealth 
Group, we are committed to providing distinct value for those we are privileged to serve, including our shareholders and society broadly. 
We are dedicated to earning the opportunity to serve more people and drive shareholder and societal value by focusing 
on the following material topics determined through broad stakeholder engagement and approval from our senior 
leaders and Board of Directors. This year, we are pleased to introduce Long-Term Commitments that reflect our focus 
and determination to fulfill our mission and business strategy. Sustainability is foundational to our business and these 
ongoing efforts will lead to new commitments that are important to our company as health care evolves and through 
our continued engagement with stakeholders to improve health care for all people and positively impact society.WHAT SUSTAINABILITY MEANS 
TO UNITEDHEALTH GROUP
HELPING TO CREATE A MODERN,  
HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM
We are committed to a future that expands access to care, 
improves health care affordability, enhances the health 
care experience and achieves better health outcomes.
Partnering with key stakeholders, we are advancing 
health equity, building healthier communities and 
supporting the ongoing response efforts to COVID-19.
 
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
For more than 40 years we’ve developed strong and 
effective governance practices through compliance, 
board diversity and independence, a commitment to 
ethics and integrity, and an emphasis on data security 
and supply chain management.OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE
We celebrate our people, ideas and experiences, creating 
a culture where all team members are appreciated, 
valued and able to reach their full potential. We join 
together as individuals – forming a team as diverse as 
the people we serve – in meeting our responsibility to 
improve the health system.
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
We recognize the important role the environment plays in the health of every community and we are committed to 
mitigating our impact on the environment. 
About UnitedHealth Group  ........................... 5
A Modern, High-Performing Health System  ...8
Our People and Culture  ............................... 36
Responsible Business Practices  .................. 44
Environmental Health  .................................. 54
Performance Data  ....................................... 60CONTENTS4   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
We proactively engage our stakeholders to promote transparent and continuous dialogue regarding our business and 
sustainability efforts. 
In 2020, we embraced a broader and more proactive 
engagement process with stakeholders, conducting more one-on-one interviews and discussions and 
applying feedback in our ongoing efforts. 
We solicit input from a diverse group of stakeholders – 
including consumers, employees, customers, health care 
professionals, suppliers, policy-makers, shareholders 
and nonprofit partners – through a variety of formal 
and informal methods including forums, surveys and 
individual meetings. 
Each stakeholder’s unique perspective helps inform our 
material topics and ongoing approach to sustainability. 
Many of the issues identified through stakeholder 
engagement – including achieving universal coverage, 
improving health care affordability, advancing value-
based care, simplifying the health care experience, 
advancing health equity and addressing the determinants of health – informed the development of 
our sustainability agenda. 
Although the priorities of each stakeholder may vary, 
there is a common expectation that UnitedHealth Group 
has the responsibility and capabilities to address the 
most pressing challenges facing the health care system. 
We will continue to take an intentional approach to 
stakeholder engagement efforts and how we take action 
on the feedback we receive.UnitedHealth Group has a long-standing commitment to sustainability supported by our senior leaders and Board  
of Directors.
Our sustainability efforts are overseen by the executive vice president of Corporate Affairs – in partnership with senior 
leaders across the company – and include engagement with external stakeholders on environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) initiatives. The Public Policy Strategies and Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors is 
formally charged with overseeing our sustainability strategy and performance. Additional committees of the Board of 
Directors have responsibility for ESG topics, including the Audit, Compensation and Human Resources, and Nomination 
and Corporate Governance committees.
Our day-to-day sustainability agenda is overseen by a collaborative collection of leaders across Optum, 
UnitedHealthcare, Global Operations and Facilities Management, Clinical, Human Capital, Finance, Compliance and 
Privacy, Legal and Risk Management, Compliance and Regulatory Affairs, and Enterprise Resiliency and Response.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITYSUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
UNITEDHEALTH GROUP   5
ABOUT 
UNITEDHEALTH 
GROUP 
Supported by 330,000 team members, we leverage 
information, technology and clinical excellence to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone.6   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Harnessing the combined capabilities of our two distinct, yet complementary businesses – Optum and 
UnitedHealthcare – we are working to improve health care quality, access and affordability. Through the innovative 
capabilities of our businesses – and by partnering with governments, employers, health care providers and others – we 
are striving to create a simpler, more effective health system for those that experience, provide and pay for care.
An information and technology-enabled health 
services business comprised of OptumHealth, 
OptumInsight and OptumRx. Delivering services that 
help to modernize the health system and improve overall 
population health.A leader in health benefits, providing broad access 
to high-quality, cost-effective health care locally. 
Delivering value to people in all stages of life, at all income 
levels through health benefit programs for individuals, 
employers, and Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.OUR BUSINESSESWe seek to enhance the performance of the health 
system and improve the overall health and well-being of the people we serve and their communities.
We work with health care professionals and other key 
partners to expand access to quality health care so people get the care they need at an affordable price.
We support the physician-patient relationship and 
empower people with the information, guidance and tools they need to make personal health 
choices and decisions.FULFILLING OUR MISSION OUR CORE VALUES
Integrity 
 
Compassion 
 
RelationshipsInnovationPerformanceHonor commitments.  
Never compromise ethics.
Walk in the shoes of the people we 
serve and those with whom we work.
Build trust through collaboration.Invent the future, learn from the past.Demonstrate excellence in  
everything we do.
WHO WE SERVE
Individuals Brokers Providers Employers Governments Employees PayersCorporate Culture
• Civic 50 – Recipient for nine straight years
• 2020 CMS Health Equity Award
• National Business Group on Health – 2020 Best 
Employers: Excellence in Health & Well-Being 
top-tier Platinum award
• JUST Capital – member of the JUST 100 in 2020
• Viqtory – 2020 Military Friendly Employer
• WayUp’s Top 100 Internship ProgramRECOGNITION
$58M
in COVID-19 relief
$48M
through the United 
for Giving employee 
giving program18k
charities supported 
worldwide through 
the United for 
Giving program2.6M
hours volunteered by employeesDow Jones Sustainability Index –  
Named to the World and North 
American Indices since 19992020 BY THE NUMBERS
$257.1B
Total Revenues
$4B
Innovation/Technology/
Research and Development Investments142M
Unique Individuals Served
$147M
In Charitable Contributions, including:330k
employees worldwide, including:
40k
customer-facing 
team members30k
technology professionals125k
clinical professionalsUNITEDHEALTH GROUP   7
Inclusion & Diversity
• Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index – 
“Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality”
• Disability Equality Index® (DEI) – “2020 DEI Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion”
• Chile Mujeres, PwC and PULSO “Women’s Talent Boosting Award”
Environment
• Named to the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Leadership Band in 2020 for efforts to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions
• CDP Climate 2020 – A- score
Fortune’s World’s Most Admired 
Companies – No. 1 rank in the insurance 
and managed care sector8   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
 HELPING TO CREATE A 
MODERN, HIGH-
PERFORMING 
HEALTH SYSTEM HELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   9
WHAT WE’RE FOCUSED ON: 
Expanding access to care through a long-standing 
commitment to achieve universal coverage by 
harnessing digital tools and virtual platforms and 
investing in primary care. 
Improving health care affordability through cost 
transparency, advancing value-based care, optimizing 
where patients receive care and lowering the cost of 
prescription drugs. 
Enhancing the health care experience by improving 
patient and clinician satisfaction and providing 
personalized, dedicated member support and 
culturally competent care. 
Achieving better health outcomes by managing 
chronic disease, applying a holistic approach to 
mental health care and improving health literacy. 
Advancing health equity with personalized care 
tailored to an individual’s needs, helping to build a diverse health workforce, improving the health of 
underserved communities and leveraging data to 
reduce disparities in care. 
Building healthier communities through our social 
responsibility efforts, including philanthropic grants, 
in-kind contributions and supporting our employees 
who volunteer their time and resources in the 
communities where they work and live. 
COVID-19 has meaningfully impacted people and health systems across the globe. Economic and social disruptions 
have demonstrated opportunities to innovate and improve how 
people access and receive high-quality care. It underscored 
in a profound way for our 330,000 team members the unique 
opportunity and responsibility we have to make health care more 
accessible and affordable for all people. 
At UnitedHealth Group, we are grounded in our long-standing 
commitment to advancing ideas and solutions – alongside 
government and private sector partners – to fulfill our mission.10   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
UnitedHealth Group is committed to helping ensure every person has access to high-quality, 
affordable health care that meets their unique health care needs and financial means. 
We are helping to connect people to care with digital tools and virtual platforms, 
improving access to primary care with workforce investments and leveraging a national network of 1.4 million provider relationships to help people get the right care when and where they need it.EXPANDING ACCESS  
TO CARE
 2M+
consumer engagements  
through UnitedHealthcare’s  
GetCovered program
For more than 20 years, we have advocated for policies 
to achieve universal coverage in the United States by 
strengthening and expanding existing coverage options. We 
believe the 29 million uninsured Americans can be covered 
by building upon existing, proven coverage platforms – 
employer-sponsored insurance, Medicaid and Medicare 
Advantage – and through modernizing exchanges, 
strengthening and expanding Medicaid and enabling more 
flexibility, competition and choice in the individual market.OUR COMMITMENT TO ACHIEVE UNIVERSAL COVERAGE
The impact of COVID-19 and the resulting economic challenges have led to an increase in the number of 
uninsured individuals. To help individuals who lost 
their employer-based health insurance coverage 
during this period, UnitedHealthcare launched 
GetCovered, a no-cost public service that provides 
information and resources to individuals on how to 
access available health insurance coverage options.HELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   11
Virtual care platforms  are delivering evidence-based 
care to people where and when they need it most. 
We are working to expand and improve access to mental 
health services through Optum’s AbleTo – a virtual mental health platform that analyzes claims data – to proactively 
connect members to licensed behavioral health providers 
who develop a personalized treatment plan.CONNECTING PEOPLE TO CARE
Remote monitoring tools support patient care by providing clinicians with patient data that enables timely, 
proactive health care interventions that can improve 
engagement and education and collect insights on the 
determinants of health. 
Our remote monitoring platform – Vivify – gives clinicians 
the ability to monitor high-risk individuals in their home 
and provide important home-based interventions to help 
improve health outcomes.
AbleTo Outcomes
50%
reduction in 
depression48%
decrease in 
hospitalizationsVivify Outcomes
Up to  74%
reduction in hospital 
readmissionsUp to  40%
reduction in mortalityDigital capabilities are increasingly important in helping people access care. For example, we are bringing convenient, quality care to people in their home, which improves their experience and results in better health outcomes.12   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Research shows increased access to primary care is associated with better health outcomes, a higher likelihood of 
receiving preventive care such as immunizations and screenings, early disease detection and treatment and better 
chronic disease management. 
However, more than 25% of Americans do not have a primary care physician. Projected physician shortages – particularly 
for primary care – underscore the ongoing need to support and develop a 21st century health workforce and identify new 
and innovative ways for people to access primary care at a location that is convenient for them. IMPROVING ACCESS TO PRIMARY CARE
Primary care support in states 
like Nevada – where the number 
of active primary care physicians 
per capita falls below the national 
average – presents an important 
opportunity to help develop this 
21st century health workforce.
The United Health Foundation 
provided $3 million to the 
University of Nevada, Las Vegas 
(UNLV) School of Medicine to help 
create three community clinics 
and develop a course curriculum for an 18-month clerkship 
program to support medical 
students who are pursuing a 
career in primary care. 
49
students graduated 
in 2021 with clerkship 
experienceUNLV Program
Virtual primary care improves 
access to care in underserved 
areas by connecting people 
to a primary care physician. 
UnitedHealthcare members 
who do not have a primary 
care physician experience 
10% higher health care costs 
on average. Additionally, our 
consumer sentiment survey results show that 26% of Americans prefer a virtual relationship with a primary 
care physician. 
In response and to help our members, UnitedHealthcare 
launched its Virtual Primary Care plan in 2020 that 
covers basic health screenings, minor urgent care visits 
and appropriate chronic health conditions. These efforts 
have helped our members identify a designated primary 
care physician and we are eager to expand this program 
in the future. 
600k
members in 11 markets 
gained access to virtual 
primary careUHC Virtual 
Primary Care PlanHELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   13
OUR COMMITMENT
About Our Commitment 
Preventive care services – including routine wellness visits, cancer and other health related screenings, management of chronic conditions and vaccinations – help detect and 
prevent illness, disease and other health risks.
Why It’s Important 
Expanding access to preventive care helps improve early 
disease identification and prevention, which is essential 
to an individual’s long-term health and well-being. As 
recommended by the U.S. Preventive Services Task 
Force, preventive care such as wellness visits provides an opportunity to strengthen the patient-physician 
relationship by ensuring providers and their patients 
discuss healthy behaviors and take action to prevent 
illness and improve health. 85% of our members will receive preventive 
care services annually by 2030 
How We’ll Do It 
In 2019, 78% of our members received preventive care services. By partnering with and supporting our national network of 1.4 million provider relationships, we are 
committed to ensuring 85% of our members receive 
preventive care services annually by 2030. Digital tools and 
personalized navigational support can help people identify 
a care provider that meets their unique needs, and value-based care arrangements that prioritize care coordination 
can improve access to recommended screenings. 
Potential Impact 
According to the Department of Health and Human Services, 
evidence-based preventive services have been shown to 
reduce death, disability and diseases such as cancer, heart 
disease, diabetes and influenza. Wellness visits have been 
shown to expand access to care through higher rates of 
preventive services such as depression screenings and 
follow-up planning, cancer screenings and vaccinations. 14   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
IMPROVING HEALTH CARE 
AFFORDABILITY
IMPROVING COST 
TRANSPARENCYUnitedHealth Group is committed to helping reduce health care costs both at an 
individual and system level. We are fulfilling that commitment by helping consumers access the right care at the right time and place, reducing prescription drug costs and expanding value-based care to pay for outcomes rather than volume of services. 
The cost of health care in the United States continues to increase, with overall spending 
reaching $3.8 trillion in 2019 or more than $11,500 per person. Costs are expected to continue to increase, exceeding $6 trillion by 2028. We are committed to helping lower the cost of care for those we serve. Working across the health system – with governments, customers, providers and consumers – our objective is to help change the trajectory of health care spending to lower the total cost of care. 
UnitedHealth Group has developed a broad 
portfolio of products and services to help people 
compare health care services based on quality 
and cost. We are providing consumers and their 
physicians access to more information about their 
health care options than ever before, whether 
searching for the right site of care or a preferred 
provider. 
Empowering people with information about 
health care quality and cost helps them 
make more informed choices. Collectively, 
UnitedHealthcare’s transparency tools are 
available to over 27 million members who can search prices for more than 820 services. People 
who use transparency tools pay 36% less, on 
average, than nonusers. 
PreCheck MyScript®, a digital transparency 
tool from OptumRx, helps patients navigate 
the complexities of prescription drug pricing 
by providing price and coverage information to 
physicians at the point of prescribing. It offers 
clinically appropriate, lower-cost options and 
calculates exactly how much each drug option will 
save the patient, while leaving ultimate decision-
making to the patient and their physician.563k
clinicians have access
14M
unique members 
impacted
$225
average savings 
per prescription for 
consumersPreCheck 
MyScript ImpactHELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   15
Reducing avoidable ED 
visits lowers costs for the health system. Two-thirds of visits to the hospital 
ED by privately insured 
individuals are avoidable, 
often involving conditions 
like bronchitis, flu or nausea. 
Optum’s Rally® platform uses digital 
transparency tools that allow consumers 
to see the cost of care before they receive it, helping people avoid the ED in favor 
of lower-cost settings when clinically 
appropriate. 
ADVANCING VALUE-BASED CARE
OPTIMIZING SITE OF SERVICE14%
higher likelihood members get 
preventive cancer screenings
15%
fewer hospital admissions
16%
fewer ED visitsACO Outcomes
Rally 
Outcomes
9%
decrease in ED 
utilizationOptum Care 
Outcomes
Up to  30%
lower cost of care compared 
to Medicare fee-for-service
9 out of10
patients would send their  
friends to Optum CareUnitedHealth Group is committed to advancing value-based care, with a focus on helping providers transition into arrangements where they are financially accountable 
for their patients’ care. UnitedHealthcare partners closely with care providers on value-
based contracts that emphasize care coordination by providing actionable data and care 
management tools that deliver better outcomes at a lower cost to consumers, governments 
and the health system.
Accountable Care Organizations (ACO) – consisting of groups of health care providers 
that work together to coordinate patient care – provide higher-quality care at a lower cost. 
Providers are paid based on their ability to deliver improved patient outcomes and a better 
experience. 
UnitedHealthcare currently operates more than 1,500 accountable care agreements in 
which providers take on more financial accountability for their patients’ care. Commercial 
ACO members are more likely to see a primary care provider, get preventive screenings and 
avoid a hospital admission or visit to the emergency department (ED).
UnitedHealth Group recognizes there is a meaningful opportunity to drive greater affordability for consumers and the 
health system by helping people access high-quality care in a low-cost setting. Treating patients in such settings can 
generate significant savings for the health system – including consumers, employers and government programs. 
$320Bcould be saved over the next decade by treating common 
conditions in primary care settings instead of the ED
Improving access to high-quality, low-
cost care settings can generate significant 
savings for the health system. For example, 
conducting more joint replacement surgeries 
in ambulatory surgery centers instead of 
a hospital among commercially insured 
individuals could save the health system  $20 billion over 10 years. 
More than 53,000 employed and aligned 
Optum Care physicians are serving nearly  
20 million U.S. patients in the most 
appropriate care settings, from primary and 
specialty care to urgent care, outpatient surgical 
care and in-home care. Our physician-led, 
technology-enabled care settings are working 
to lower the overall cost of care for consumers 
and the health system broadly with a holistic, 
high-quality approach to patient care.16   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
About Our Commitment  
Medical care provided at sites of care that meet quality 
and cost-efficiency criteria predictably leads to better 
health outcomes at a lower cost for the consumer. In 
particular, ambulatory surgery centers and stand-alone 
imaging centers frequently provide the same or better 
quality care at a lower cost compared to a hospital.
Why It’s Important 
The cost of care varies considerably depending on 
where care is provided. For example, the average price 
for routine diagnostic imaging at a hospital outpatient 
department can be 165% more than the price of a test 
performed at a stand-alone imaging center or physician’s office. Consistent with the Department of Health and 
Human Services’ Healthy People 2030 goal of reducing 
preventable hospital visits, helping people access care 
in high-quality, lower-cost settings makes care more 
affordable and may lead to better health outcomes.More than 55% of outpatient surgeries and 
radiology services among our members will 
be delivered at high-quality, cost-efficient 
sites of care by 2030OUR COMMITMENT
How We’ll Do It 
In 2019, 47% of outpatient surgeries and radiology 
services among our members were delivered at high-
quality, cost-effective sites of care. By equipping 
physicians with point-of-care tools that facilitate shared 
decision-making and help guide patients to the most 
appropriate, low-cost care setting, we are committed 
to ensuring more than 55% of outpatient surgeries and 
radiology services among our members are delivered at 
a high-quality, cost-efficient site of care by 2030. Digital tools can also help members identify the care setting that 
best suits their medical and financial needs and improve 
convenient access to quality care providers.  
Potential Impact 
Helping consumers access high-quality, cost-efficient 
sites of care can have a significant impact on the total 
cost of care, resulting in more affordable care and better 
health outcomes for the patient. For example, conducting 
more joint replacement surgeries in ambulatory surgery 
centers could save the U.S. health system $3 billion 
annually and lead to 500,000 fewer hospitalizations. 
And shifting routine diagnostic tests from an outpatient hospital department to a stand-alone imaging center or 
a physician’s office could reduce spending by 62% and 
save consumers more than $300 per test.HELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   17
Americans spend more than $1,200 per year, on average, on prescription drugs – among the highest in the world. 
UnitedHealth Group is actively working to reduce prescription drug costs for consumers, governments and employers. LOWERING THE COST OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
Drug discounts are among the 
solutions we are actively advancing 
to help lower out-of-pocket costs for 
consumers while maintaining choices 
and stable premiums, even as drug 
prices continue to increase.
In 2020, OptumRx and UnitedHealthcare led the industry 
in expanding point-of-sale prescription drug discount 
programs to all new employer-sponsored plans – making 
medications more affordable for consumers by applying 
the discount at the pharmacy counter and improving 
health outcomes through medication adherence. 
OptumRx’s commitment to prescription drug affordability 
also includes a drug discount card program – available to 
all Americans – that delivers up to 80% consumer savings 
on retail prices at over 64,000 pharmacies. Specialty drugs  treat some of the most complex 
diseases, with the potential to significantly impact 
people’s lives. However, high-cost specialty drugs 
account for nearly 50% of drug spending in the U.S. 
Research shows that administering specialty drugs 
in physicians’ offices and patients’ homes – instead 
of hospital outpatient settings – can save between 
$16,000 and $37,000 per patient per year for the five 
conditions that account for more than 75% of specialty 
drug spending. Our nurses are caring for more patients 
at home, making 20,000 home visits per month, on 
average, to administer these drugs. 
OptumRx’s personalized, consumer-centric care model 
also helps patients manage the complexities of specialty 
drugs by improving medication adherence, ultimately 
leading to lower medical costs and better health outcomes. $189
annual consumer 
savings from point-of-
sale discounts
OptumRx Specialty Pharmacy Services Impact on Patients
Inflammatory Conditions Hepatitis C
20%
higher medication 
adherence4%
lower medical 
costs21%
higher medication 
adherence10%
lower medical 
costs18   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Research shows that patients with better care experiences have better outcomes –  
making experience a critical component of quality health care. We measure the experience of the people we serve so we can eliminate burdens, improve health outcomes and innovate customer-centric solutions.
UnitedHealth Group is dedicated to providing a seamless, personalized experience 
for anyone interacting with the health care system, including consumers and health care providers. We do this by innovating and offering distinctive tools and services to help people navigate and interact with a complex health system, ultimately seeking to achieve world-class experiences for those we are privileged to serve. 
We assess our progress toward creating world-class customer experiences using the 
Net Promoter System (NPS), which holistically measures the experiences we deliver to the people we are privileged to serve, including how likely a person is to recommend our company to their friends or family.ENHANCING THE HEALTH 
CARE EXPERIENCE
We strive to help people have the best possible experience with the health system. For example, we offer mobile tools 
that provide real-time access to benefits and individual profile information, personalized navigation for those who need 
it most and care programs with the right blend of human and digital support. SUPPORTING OUR MEMBERS THROUGH PERSONALIZATION
Dedicated member support is critical for 
vulnerable patients who have more complex 
medical needs that often result in higher 
costs and more frequent interactions with 
the health system. 
UnitedHealthcare’s Special 
Needs Initiative eases the 
burden of health system 
navigation and improves our 
members’ experiences by 
bringing an enhanced level 
of service to families of children with special 
needs. The program supports these families from birth to age 17 with a dedicated team of 
advisers who resolve issues on their behalf. 
Personalized navigation from a single 
contact – as opposed to a traditional 
call center model – can help consumers 
effectively and seamlessly navigate a 
complex health system.UnitedHealthcare’s personalized support 
programs – Advocate4Me and Navigate4Me 
– provide members with a single advocate who 
can help them make informed decisions about 
their medical care.
Navigate4Me – a program for Medicare 
Advantage members facing complex medical 
conditions – provides an adviser who coordinates 
care, addresses claims issues and develops 
a personalized care plan with recommended 
actions, such as scheduling health screenings. 
More than 1 million Medicare Advantage 
members were assigned a navigator in 2020. 
Advocate4Me matches members with advocates 
who provide guidance when they have questions 
about their health plan and overall health and need assistance finding personalized solutions 
for their individual situation. This personalized 
service has resulted in improved outcomes and 
lower costs for our members.435k
members enrolled in clinical 
and wellness programs
1.7M+
clinical gaps in care proactively 
identified by advocates for 
Medicare Advantage and Dual 
Special Needs Plan members
Up to  4%
total cost savings in enhanced 
advocacy programs10%
improvement in  
consumer loyalty (NPS)Advocate4Me 
Outcomes
70+
NPSSpecial Needs 
InitiativeHELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   19
UnitedHealth Group is committed to partnering with providers to streamline and simplify administrative work, helping to 
create a best-in-class experience for them and the people they serve. Supporting providers with tools and resources to 
help them spend more time with patients can reduce provider burnout and improve the patient-physician relationship. ENHANCING THE PROVIDER EXPERIENCE
Clinical decision support tools at the point of care 
ensure the right information is available for clinicians to 
follow optimal clinical pathways and spend more time 
with their patients. 
UnitedHealthcare’s Point of Care Assist tool – which 
integrates patients’ UnitedHealthcare health data 
within the electronic medical record – helps clinicians 
identify potential gaps in care and estimates costs based 
on individual coverage. Use of Point of Care Assist – 
available to more than 400,000 new physicians in 2020 – 
reduces their administrative burden by streamlining prior 
authorization and helps patients access lower-cost sites 
of care, reducing their out-of-pocket costs. 
By providing up-to-date clinical information – including 
the latest medical research – Optum’s OptimalCare 
platform helps clinicians make informed care decisions based on the latest scientific evidence. Used in over half 
of our care delivery organizations and embedded in the electronic medical record workflow, OptimalCare allows 
patients to participate in the care decision process by 
engaging in treatment plans at the point of care. 
Improving physician well-being and reducing 
burnout can help ensure more people have access to 
a primary care physician. One-fifth of Americans live 
in an area with a shortage of primary care physicians 
and physician burnout could compound the projected 
shortage of up to 55,000 primary care physicians over 
the next decade.
In 2020, in partnership with the 
American Academy of Family 
Physicians, the United Health 
Foundation established a training 
program to help family physicians 
change the culture of health care organizations and improve physician wellness using 
operational improvements and change management tactics. 
200
family physicians will 
undergo training to lead 
change for improved 
clinical well-being576k
physicians have access  
to Point of Care Assist®
30%
improvement in 
directing consumers to 
lower-cost sites of careImpact of 
Clinical Decision 
Support Tools20   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
UnitedHealth Group is committed to helping improve health outcomes and reducing 
the burden of disease. Today, 60% of Americans have chronic conditions and we 
anticipate this will continue to increase with the aging population. Additionally, 1 in 5 adults experience a mental illness each year. 
We strive to take a holistic approach to delivering care, preventing chronic disease, 
addressing health disparities and deploying resources to improve health literacy. By enhancing the performance of the health system, we can better meet the needs of the communities and people we serve.ACHIEVING BETTER 
HEALTH OUTCOMESHELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   21
Treatment of chronic conditions accounts for more than $1 trillion in direct health care costs each year and the 
prevalence of chronic disease continues to grow. Using data analytics – combined with individualized care plans 
and digital tools – our clinical programs are proactively engaging patients to provide personalized support through 
designated care teams. MANAGING CHRONIC DISEASE
Digital diabetes management helps those who struggle to meet their target glucose levels and are at risk for 
adverse health events and long-term organ damage. 
UnitedHealth Group’s Level2® digital therapy equips 
eligible patients with a continuous glucose monitor, an activity tracker, app-based alerts and one-on-one clinical 
care to encourage healthier lifestyle decisions. Early 
results suggest that Level2 can result in a meaningful 
reduction in blood sugar levels and, for some patients, 
reduce or eliminate the use of medication.
Supporting cancer patients and their families can help manage long-term 
secondary side effects and preemptively monitor for reoccurance while  
receiving intensive therapy. 
Through Optum’s Cancer Support Program – which provides specialized 
oncology case management from diagnosis and treatment to end-of-life 
or survivorship – our members engage with a cancer nurse to help them 
make informed decisions about their care, while receiving high-quality 
care from our Cancer Centers of Excellence network. In collaboration with 
the member’s treating physician, Optum nurses help prevent avoidable 
hospital and emergency department (ED) visits for those at high risk of 
complications and side effects.Optum’s Cancer Support 
Program Outcomes
10%
reduction in cancer 
medical spend compared 
to nonparticipants6%
reduction in inpatient 
admissions resulting 
from cancer 
complications
90%
of patients with an 
HbA1c greater than 
8 saw improvement 
within 90 days
37%
of patients who reported 
medication de-escalation 
were able to fully stop 
medicationsLevel2 Outcomes*
*Level2 population assessment by OptumLabs of over 5,500 Level2 members 
reported March 2021. 598 patients experienced medication de-escalation.22   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Close 600 million gaps in care for our 
members by the end of 2025OUR COMMITMENT
About Our Commitment 
Gaps in care occur when there is a discrepancy between 
clinically recommended care and the actual care 
delivered. Common gaps include missed wellness visits, 
vaccinations or screenings, and medication non-adherence. 
Why It’s Important 
Early identification of gaps in care leads to better health 
outcomes and improves people’s long-term health by 
reducing ED visits and preventing disease progression. 
The U.S. Surgeon General’s National Prevention Strategy 
supports the delivery of evidence-based preventive care 
in various settings to identify diseases early and help 
people make informed decisions about their health, resulting in better health outcomes.How We’ll Do It In 2019, we closed 104 million gaps in care for our 
members. We are committed to closing an additional  
600 million gaps in care between 2021 and 2025 by 
helping providers with real-time analytics and decision 
support tools at the point of care. We will connect with 
patients in their home – including through Optum’s 
HouseCalls program – and enable access to convenient 
primary care and virtual care options. Our dedicated 
member service agents, equipped with member health data, will provide personalized care coordination to help 
identify preventive care opportunities early.  
Potential Impact 
Research shows closing gaps in care with in-home 
assessments decreases hospital admissions by up to 14% 
and increases physician office visits by 2% to 6%, helping 
to reduce health risks, lower overall costs and improve 
health outcomes.HELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   23
More than 51 million adults in the U.S. live with mental illness. And more than half of adults 
with mental illness do not receive the mental health services they need. 
Providing holistic mental health care to these individuals by combining pharmacy care and 
clinical services helps patients obtain the medications they need, often resulting in improved health outcomes for those with complex medical conditions. For example, Optum’s Genoa 
Healthcare specialty pharmacies blend telepsychiatry and clinical services to deliver high-
quality care to those with depression, schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Genoa partners with 
community mental health clinics to provide pharmacy care services to patients in the same 
facility where they receive their medical care, creating a seamless experience for vulnerable 
and disadvantaged populations that results in better health outcomes. IMPROVING MENTAL HEALTH CARE
Understanding health information and the language of health is critical to helping people navigate the complexities of 
the health care system, understand their care needs and make important decisions. Our research shows that seniors –  
who use more health care services and take more medications compared to other age groups – benefit from health 
literacy investments as it helps them make informed decisions, often resulting in better health outcomes. 
Low health literacy costs the health system up to $240 billion per year due to higher hospitalizations, increased ED use 
and worse health outcomes. 
Our Health Literacy Innovations Program has worked to provide consumers with clear, simple, actionable health 
information, while our Just Plain Clear® Glossary was developed to help people understand complex health terms. ADDRESSING HEALTH LITERACY
Seniors in counties 
with the highest 
health literacy 
levels experience
26%
fewer avoidable 
hospitalizations
18%
fewer ED visits
13%
lower costs per 
beneficiaryGenoa Healthcare 
Outcomes
90%
medication  
adherence rates
40%
fewer hospitalizations
90+
NPS
 140k+
visits to our Just Plain Clear®  
Glossary in 202024   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
ADVANCING  
HEALTH EQUITY
Stemming from our long-standing belief that all individuals should 
have access to high-quality, affordable health care that meets their 
unique health care needs, UnitedHealth Group is deeply committed to advancing health equity in the U.S. and around the world. 
Our 330,000 team members are dedicated to fulfilling the 
opportunity and responsibility we have to meaningfully contribute to advancing health equity, addressing health disparities and closing gaps in care for the most vulnerable populations. 
For more than two decades, UnitedHealth Group has led efforts to 
identify, monitor and address health disparities – in collaboration with community organizations and national partners – to advance health equity. While we have made measurable progress, much more is needed to eliminate health disparities and achieve health equity.Eliminating health 
disparities would reduce 
health care costs by
$230B
over four yearsHELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   25
We are helping to build the 21st 
century health workforce to 
provide culturally competent 
care to underserved populations. 
Since 2007, the United Health 
Foundation’s Diverse Scholars 
Initiative has provided more 
than $23 million to fund 
nearly 3,000 scholarships for 
students of color pursuing 
careers as primary care health 
professionals, particularly in 
underserved communities. We are helping to grow a more diverse health analytics and 
technology workforce by 
partnering with the University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill and 
Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities (HBCUs), including 
the Atlanta University Center 
Consortium. 
We also support students 
through the Optum Technology 
STEM program, in which Optum 
employees volunteer to provide science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics training to 
students underrepresented in 
health technology, with a focus 
on girls and Black and Hispanic/
Latino students. Different communities have different needs, and we are working to meet the unique 
needs of people by providing care and services tailored to each individual. Research shows eliminating health disparities would reduce indirect costs associated with 
disease and mortality.
Seeking to spur innovation around health equity, UnitedHealth Group established a 
Health Equity Services Program more than a decade ago. This initiative has identified 
several opportunities to better understand our members’ unique needs, identify gaps 
in care and deliver tailored health solutions.
Through that program, we developed health disparity action plans for all 
UnitedHealthcare Community & State health plans that focused on specific 
populations and health measures that need improvement. Working with community 
health workers in Hawaii, Michigan and Ohio, we helped identify gaps in postpartum 
care for Medicaid enrollees and designed culturally and regionally tailored 
interventions. The action plans – which earned UnitedHealthcare the CMS Health 
Equity Award in 2020 – significantly reduced disparities in postpartum care for 
underserved communities. 
We are committed to developing a diverse health workforce by increasing the number of providers equipped to deliver 
personalized care and advancing a culture that embraces inclusion, diversity, innovation and growth.DELIVERING PERSONALIZED CARE  
BASED ON AN INDIVIDUAL’S NEEDS
PROMOTING EQUITY AND DIVERSITY  
IN THE HEALTH WORKFORCE83%
reduction in postpartum 
care disparities for 
Black women in Ohio
40%
reduction in postpartum 
care disparities for  
rural women in Hawaii42%
reduction in postpartum 
care disparities for Black 
women in MichiganHealth Disparity 
Action Plan 
Outcomes
$10M
to support health informatics 
training at HBCUs since 2017
160
students from HBCUs enrolled in 
health informatics training since 2017
7k+
students at 103 schools 
participated in Optum Technology 
STEM training since 2019234
scholarships in 36 states provided by the 
Diverse Scholars Initiative in 202026   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Individual health is deeply influenced by external factors, including one’s environment, education, housing and 
employment. We partner with communities nationwide to expand access to care and address the determinants of 
health for underserved and uninsured individuals and families. 
We work to reduce health disparities through philanthropic partnerships that address specific community health 
needs, including $9 million in targeted philanthropic partnerships to address localized maternal health disparities in 
Nevada, New York, Ohio, Texas and Washington, D.C.
We also supported the Guiding Recovery and Creating Empowerment 
(GRACE) program at Woman’s Hospital in Louisiana, which connects women 
who have opioid use disorder to community resources, treatment and 
support throughout their pregnancy and for six weeks after giving birth.
Through a partnership with Pathways – an organization that provides mental 
health services in 10 counties in rural, northeastern Kentucky – we helped 
children in hard-to-reach communities receive needed care by improving 
access to telehealth.IMPROVING THE HEALTH OF UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES
GRACE Impact in 
Louisiana in 2020
12%
improvement in 
average birth weight21%
decline in NICU visits
Pathways 
Partnership 
Outcomes
~6.5k
pediatric patients received 
mental health services
~20k
telehealth visits  
with children
133
children diverted 
from the EDHELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   27
We conduct research and analysis using data from across communities – with a special focus on people  
who have been underrepresented in or underserved by medical research – to better understand, monitor and 
address health disparities.LEVERAGING DATA AND EMERGING ANALYTICS TO 
MONITOR AND ADDRESS DISPARITIES IN CARE
We provide insights and analyses on our nation’s health 
through comprehensive reports in America’s Health 
Rankings (AHR), which provide a detailed picture by state 
of disparities in health by race, ethnicity, gender, age, 
education and income. 
Supported by the United Health Foundation, AHR has 
produced more than 50 reports over 31 years analyzing 
behavioral, environmental, social and economic factors 
to help public health officials, policy-makers, advocates 
and individuals understand the population’s health in a 
holistic, inclusive manner. 
We’re pleased to report that in 2021, the United Health 
Foundation will issue a new America’s Health Rankings 
report – focused specifically on the breadth, depth and 
persistence of health disparities at the state and national 
levels – to provide data and insights that inform solutions for advancing health equity. We are also studying the effects of COVID-19 on those with sickle cell. Through a partnership with the 
Morehouse School of Medicine, we are seeking to 
improve access with digital tools and technologies for 
primary care providers in underserved communities 
across the Southeast.
We are engaged in research for vulnerable populations. 
Recognizing there is a significant racial disparity in the 
use of ACE inhibitors to manage hypertension, we helped 
rapidly scale a 10,000-person virtual clinical trial with 
Yale University that found seniors taking ACE inhibitors 
who test positive for COVID-19 are 40% less likely to need 
hospitalization than those who do not.
28   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
BUILDING HEALTHIER 
COMMUNITIES
At UnitedHealth Group, we combine our knowledge, 
experience and compassion – as a company and as individuals – to support the communities where we live and work. 
Through our businesses and foundations, our social 
responsibility efforts seek to build healthier communities by improving health care access, affordability, experiences and outcomes. We do this through philanthropic grants, in-kind contributions and disaster relief efforts, and by supporting our employees who contribute their resources and volunteer their time to important causes around the world.
Our philanthropic giving and charitable commitments 
are overseen by the UnitedHealth Group Office of Social Responsibility and delivered by UnitedHealth Group, Optum, UnitedHealthcare and our charitable organizations, the  
United Health Foundation and the UnitedHealthcare  
Children’s Foundation. $1.1B
contributed since 2000
4.6k+
communities supported 
across all 50 states
134
communities supported 
through charitable 
contributions greater than $25kHELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   29
Our social responsibility strategy is guided by core areas of focus including expanding access to care, building and 
shaping the health workforce and using data for good.OUR IMPACT ON COMMUNITIES
MEET THREE OF OUR SCHOLARS
Vanessa Nuñez
Growing up in Dos Palos, California, Vanessa saw how individuals who were 
not fluent in English and lacked health 
insurance had difficulty accessing care. As an aspiring medical professional studying at UCLA, she hopes to help 
strengthen the connection between 
patient care and social services.Selome GhebremedhinBorn in the African nation of Eritrea and raised in Dallas, Texas, Selome 
hopes to provide services as a 
pediatric dentist for those unable to afford care. She also recognizes the importance of understanding 
the needs of various cultures and 
customs. Mao LinThe son of Chinese immigrants, Mao hopes to attend medical school 
and work as a doctor in geriatric 
and palliative care. He believes that better communication with individuals who struggle due to 
language barriers can ensure they 
get the care they need.
Expanding access to care in local communities promotes wellness, improves disease prevention efforts and helps 
people manage their chronic disease. Greater access to care also helps advance health equity by reducing disparities 
and addressing the determinants of health. 
In 2020, we continued our long-standing investment in affordable housing by committing $100 million to develop more 
than 1,000 new homes for seniors and families, all with connections to health and wellness services and social supports.  
We are also measuring the impact of connecting affordable housing with health services on residents’ health and well-being. 
We have awarded $14 million to connect at-risk individuals to high-quality care through telehealth, mobile medical 
units, home visits and school-based care programs in multiple communities.
Building and shaping a health workforce that can meet the needs of patients and the health system broadly helps 
improve access to care and creates a better patient experience.
The United Health Foundation’s Diverse Scholars Initiative is working to cultivate a diverse health workforce that reflects 
society by increasing the number of primary care health providers equipped to deliver more personalized, culturally 
competent care. Through this initiative, we provide undergraduate-, graduate- and doctorate-level scholarships to students who are pursuing a degree that will lead to a career as a primary care health professional and who indicate a 
commitment to working in underserved communities or community health centers.20k
community partners 
supported in 202011.9k
new or preserved homes 
across 23 states and D.C.$549M
in affordable housing  
investments since 20112.6k
children received 
telehealth visits in 2020163k
preventive screenings 
conducted30   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Using data to inform health care advancements is helping 
the health system work better by producing insights on 
the nation’s health. 
America’s Health Rankings (AHR) is the longest 
running state-by-state analysis of the nation’s health, 
evaluating a historical and comprehensive set of health, 
environmental and socioeconomic data to determine 
national health benchmarks and state rankings. 
We regularly release data that provides an objective 
measurement of each state’s strengths and areas of 
opportunity and important insights into health differences 
among populations, including adults age 65 and over, 
women of reproductive age, infants and children and 
those who have served in the U.S. armed forces. We partner with leading public health experts, academic institutions and 
nonprofit organizations to amplify the 
impact of America’s Health Rankings. 
For example, since 2016, we have 
partnered with the Military Officers 
Association of America, the nation’s largest association 
of military officers, to produce a national portrait on the 
health and well-being of those who have served in the 
U.S. armed forces. This distinctive body of research has been used by policy-makers to, among other purposes, 
help improve the health of women veterans and active-
duty service members.
UnitedHealth Group provides distinctive giving experiences for all of our team members to give back to the communities 
where they work and live, across the nation and around the world, through charitable donations and volunteering.HELPING OUR EMPLOYEES IMPACT THEIR COMMUNITIESUSING INSIGHTS TO IMPROVE POPULATION HEALTH
During a difficult year for the Twin Cities in Minnesota 
following the murder of George Floyd, we were committed 
to ongoing efforts to rebuild parts of the community 
damaged by the civil unrest. We are grateful to our 
employees who have volunteered their time and worked 
with community leaders to support rebuilding efforts.
$48M
donated18k
nonprofits globally 
received support1.7k
employees 
volunteered19k
hours to help rebuild impacted 
communities in the Twin Cities93k
employees donated time2.6M
hours volunteeredEmployee volunteering is a unique feature of our United for Giving program. We encourage, support and reward 
employee community volunteer service by awarding 
employees who volunteer 30 hours per year with a $500 
grant to the nonprofit of their choice.1.2M
people accessed AHR 
data in 2020, a 70% 
increase over 2019
Employee giving is enabled through our year-round 
United for Giving program. We support our employees 
and the causes they are most passionate about by 
matching their contributions – dollar for dollar – to the 
nonprofit of their choice.Our employee assistance fund provides an opportunity for our team members to show compassion and provide 
support to their fellow colleagues during times of need.
In July 2020, we launched United for Each Other – our 
employee assistance fund – allowing employees to 
donate to colleagues impacted by natural disasters and 
qualifying catastrophic events, including Hurricanes 
Sally, Laura, Hanna and Isaias, and wildfires on the West 
Coast. The program is funded primarily by employee 
donations from across the company.HELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   31
To support vulnerable 
populations – including older 
adults, individuals who are 
uninsured, and those experiencing 
homelessness and food insecurity 
in the hardest hit communities in the United States and 
around the world – we provided more than $100 million, 
including $58 million in charitable contributions. 
For example, partnering with the AARP Foundation, we 
provided $5 million to support efforts to serve more than 
1 million seniors experiencing food insecurity and social 
isolation and mobilized our cafeteria and food service 
teams to make meals for those in need. 
AN UPDATE ON OUR 
COVID-19 RESPONSE
Since the onset of the pandemic, our highest priority has remained the health, safety 
and support of the communities and people we serve – including our dedicated team of 330,000 people and the heroic members of the broader health workforce around the world.
We have taken action to ensure easy access to affordable care and streamline 
processes for administering health care for our members, health care providers, customers, employers and consumers.
$2B
in direct customer and 
consumer support
17k+
Optum clinicians  
redeployed to 
telehealth70M
meals provided to those in 
need around the worldFor our members, we provided 
direct customer and consumer 
support through premium credits, 
cost-sharing waivers and other 
efforts. We also waived all cost 
sharing for COVID-19 diagnosis 
and treatment, removed all 
COVID-19 prior authorizations and 
expanded access to virtual care by 
redeploying Optum clinicians to telehealth capabilities.32   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
To protect the health workforce and support the care delivery 
system, we accelerated nearly $2 billion in payments to care 
providers to provide needed liquidity for the health system. 
Additionally, UnitedHealth Group was selected by the Department 
of Health and Human Services to assist in the processing and 
distribution of CARES Act funding to providers, which supported 
care-related expenses and lost revenue due to COVID-19 and helped 
ensure uninsured Americans received needed testing and treatment.
OptumServe has helped provide nearly 4 million tests in 
underserved communities throughout the U.S. Additionally, 
our STOP COVID initiative focused on serving people of color 
by working with trusted community partners in five targeted 
communities to provide testing as well as wraparound support. 
STOP COVID Provided
31k
COVID tests23k
health and safety kits 
that included hand 
sanitizer and cloth masks9k
food boxes
To support the communities and people we are 
privileged to serve, our $58 million in charitable 
contributions helped at-risk populations, assisted 
communities and protected the health workforce. 
It also helped respond to urgent needs in the 
international communities where we operate. 
Through the United Health Foundation,  
we contributed nearly $5 million to the CDC 
Foundation, Direct Relief, the American Nurses 
Foundation and state-based organizations to 
support the nation’s health workforce during  
the COVID-19 crisis. This funding was used  
to purchase and distribute personal protective equipment (PPE) to hard-hit states across the 
nation and support frontline health care workers.
In South America, we partnered with local 
governments to provide access to our hospitals, 
including lending nearly 300 beds for use by Brazil’s 
public health system. We donated PPE and other 
supplies to communities we serve throughout Brazil 
as well as in Chile, Colombia and Peru.$100B+
in CARES Act funding  
processed and distributed  
to providers $2B
in accelerated 
payments to care 
providers
85k
surgical gowns750k+
gloves1.8M
face masks
United Health Foundation Funding ProvidedHELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   33
We partnered with industry stakeholders, leveraging our clinical knowledge, expertise and resources to develop new 
treatments, testing procedures and lifesaving equipment. 
Research  
has led to
94k+
critically ill COVID 
patients receiving 
convalescent 
plasma therapy100k+
people and ~500 
companies used 
ProtectWell in 2020
Partnering with Microsoft, we launched ProtectWell®, 
a return-to-workplace protocol that enables employers to bring employees back to the workplace in a safer 
environment. We contributed $5 million to the Mayo Clinic as it 
developed treatment innovations involving convalescent plasma therapy. 
We developed and tested a new FDA-approved self-
administered COVID-19 swab protocol that led to meaningfully improved testing efficiency and safety and 
the protection of health care workers.
We collaborated with pharmaceutical partners –  
including Johnson & Johnson (and its Janssen 
Pharmaceutical Companies) and Eli Lilly – to boost 
vaccine and treatment research efforts.
We deployed senior executives to support major 
scientific discovery and relief efforts, including providing 
assistance to the World Health Organization in the 
development of a global strategy for vaccine discovery 
and distribution, and developing and deploying a field-
based hospital system in New Jersey.For our team members and their families, we have 
taken steps to ensure their safety , providing them with 
resources and support as they continue to serve the members, patients and customers who depend on us. We 
transitioned 90% of our nonclinical workforce to a work-
at-home status while maintaining all service levels.We also launched UnitedCARES, a high-touch support program for team members with a family member 
diagnosed with COVID-19, and offered emergency 
backup child care reimbursements and a transportation 
assistance allowance for those who rely on public 
transportation.34   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
OUR ENGAGEMENTPUBLIC POLICY
UnitedHealth Group engages in efforts to help shape and inform public policy 
decisions that ensure all people have access to high-quality, affordable health care. Our participation – including making political contributions – is designed to improve the health care system and positively impact the people we are privileged to serve, our employees and shareholders. 
Our public policy engagement is focused on addressing 
the most pressing health care challenges and opportunities 
in the communities where we live and work. Public 
policy efforts are led by UnitedHealth Group’s External 
Affairs organization, with engagement and partnership 
across UnitedHealth Group, including the Optum and 
UnitedHealthcare businesses. We engage government 
officials at the federal, state and international levels, serving 
as a trusted and solutions-oriented voice in the important 
discussions about health care reform and modernization.Overall, key areas of focus include: 
• Developing and advancing public policy solutions. 
• Conducting internally generated research to provide key insights on the most pressing issues 
facing the health system. 
• Partnering with leading academic institutions 
to work jointly on health care research and data 
analysis efforts. 
• Fostering strategic partnerships with key 
stakeholders on policy and advocacy initiatives.
HELPING TO CREATE A MODERN, HIGH-PERFORMING HEALTH SYSTEM   35
OUR PRIORITIES
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONSWe are committed to helping ensure every person has access to high-quality, affordable health care that meets their 
unique health care needs and financial means. We support solutions that build on the strengths of today’s health 
system and leverage innovative, proven, private-sector approaches and successful public-private partnerships. Our 
priorities include:
Achieving Universal Coverage  by strengthening and 
expanding existing coverage options and public-private 
partnerships. We believe that the 29 million uninsured 
individuals in the U.S. can be covered through Medicaid, 
exchanges and the individual market.
Improving Health Care Affordability with the goal of 
reducing health care costs for consumers, employers, 
governments and the broader health care system. We 
believe this can be accomplished through a series of 
solutions, including transitioning to value-based care, 
addressing the high cost of prescription drugs and 
delivering more care at lower-cost sites of service with 
better clinical outcomes.Enhancing the Health Care Experience by expanding the use of secure digital tools that deliver personalized, 
actionable cost and quality information, streamlining 
and standardizing quality measurement and increasing 
workforce capacity by amending state and federal scope 
of practice laws. 
Achieving Better Health Outcomes by improving care 
quality to reduce the burden of disease. We believe 
improved health outcomes can lower health care  
costs by 40% by compensating providers for cost-effective, high-quality care, promoting evidence-based 
clinical approaches to care delivery and improving 
health literacy. 
Political contributions are part of our efforts to advance solutions intended to ensure all people have access to high-quality, affordable health care. Our Political Action Committee is managed by a long-established governance 
process that includes a thorough review and approval of each contribution, and public disclosure of contributions 
in accordance with our Political Contributions Policy , including publishing semiannual political contribution reports 
on our website. The Board of Directors’ Public Policy Strategies and Responsibility Committee has oversight of political contributions and our advocacy efforts.Additional public policy information can be found in The Path Forward on UnitedHealth Group’s website.36   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
OUR PEOPLE 
AND CULTUREOUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE   37
UnitedHealth Group’s mission – to help people live 
healthier lives and help make the health system work 
better for everyone – is advanced and enabled through 
the dedication and commitment of our 330,000 team 
members globally. We are united by our culture and 
values – integrity, compassion, relationships, innovation 
and performance. We strive to create an inclusive and 
engaging environment in which people can do their 
life’s best work, enabling healthier lives and helping to 
create a modern, high-performing health system.
To ensure our people flourish, we take a data-driven, 
science-based and human-centered approach to 
attracting, developing and retaining the world’s best 
diverse talent.
WHAT WE’RE FOCUSED ON: 
Fostering an inclusive, equitable and diverse 
environment where all team members are appreciated, 
valued and able to reach their full potential. 
Sustaining high performance and resilience by 
supporting employee well-being and rewarding and recognizing outstanding performance. 
Developing and growing our talent with robust virtual 
onboarding and digital self-assessment tools.CELEBRATING OUR PEOPLE, 
IDEAS AND EXPERIENCES, AND CREATING A CULTURE OF INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY .38   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
At UnitedHealth Group, we approach inclusion, equity and diversity like any other business priority, with clear 
leadership accountability and a data-driven approach to setting priorities and measuring progress. FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE  
AND DIVERSE ENVIRONMENT
Fulfilling our mission and long-term strategy begins with an inclusive, equitable and diverse 
culture, and a workforce reflective of the communities and people we are privileged to serve. We are committed to advancing inclusion and diversity by fostering a culture where all team members are appreciated, valued and able to reach their full potential. 
LEADERSHIP ACCOUNTABILITY
We formed the Equity Advancement Board (EAB) in 
2020, comprised of senior leaders from across the 
company who guide our strategy to advance equity at 
UnitedHealth Group. The EAB works in collaboration 
with our Culture, Inclusion & Diversity (CID) Center of 
Excellence, our Human Capital organization and our 
internal CID business councils to enable a more diverse 
health workforce and support the communities we serve.We monitor our progress toward growing employee representation of women globally and people of color 
in the United States. We leverage insights from our 
employee surveys to improve hiring, development, 
engagement and retention of our talent. In 2020, our 
Performance Data provides more transparency on our 
workforce with enhanced data reporting on people of 
color and external hiring.
16
countries with 
employees125k
clinical  
professionals40k
customer-facing 
team members30k
technology 
professionalsOUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE   39
CREATING SHARED UNDERSTANDING
CONNECTED COMMUNITIESAt UnitedHealth Group our mission calls us, our values  
guide us, inclusion and diversity fuels us, and our culture 
brings us together.
To foster a culture of inclusiveness, we promote education, 
ongoing dialogue, connection and awareness to mitigate 
the effects of unwelcome bias and support an environment 
where every employee can bring their authentic self to work.
A dedicated learning system reaches all employees to 
help build greater knowledge and awareness of inclusion and 
diversity, create personal connections and develop new skills. 
In support of Our United Culture, in 2020 we introduced a new 
digital platform to meet the demands of a remote workforce 
during COVID-19. The program reinforces our culture, with new 
content including topics such as unconscious bias, allyship, 
resilience and resourcefulness, and job calling and purpose. 
Our Culture Ambassadors bring our culture to life through 
enterprisewide training, initiatives and social responsibility 
events that promote living our values, connecting our talent 
and supporting our mission.
We launched Connected Communities, our companywide employee resource groups. These all-inclusive communities 
support employees by enabling them to connect with colleagues who have the same – or different – life experiences 
and backgrounds. Facilitated by a digital platform, the program empowers our team members to connect, collaborate, 
share experiences and support one another.
African American 
Experience
Unidos (Hispanic  
and Latin descent)Disability Inclusion
Women LEADAsians United
U.S. Military, Veteran 
Team Members and 
SpousesPride at UHG
Working Parents United
Our United Culture
~500
leaders participated  
in 2020
30k+
Culture Ambassadors, a 
16% increase from 2019
62%
experienced a greater 
sense of belonging40   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
ENHANCING DIVERSITY SOURCING  
AND TALENT STRATEGIES
We continuously seek to improve our efforts to increase diversity in our workforce, anchored by successful programs 
that recruit team members and leaders who are women, people of color, military members and veterans, LGBTQ+, 
people of all ages, and people with disabilities.
We are enhancing racial and ethnic diversity partnerships with a broad range of organizations, including the Executive 
Leadership Council, Prospanica, National Black MBA Association, National Association of Hispanic Nurses and Advancing 
Minorities’ Interest in Engineering. These partnerships support the development and mentorship of diverse talent 
pipelines and connect new sources of talent to career opportunities in our workforce.
Through a partnership with INROADS – a nonprofit that 
helps identify, accelerate and elevate the development 
of underrepresented talent – UnitedHealth Group places 
diverse college students from across the country in 
impactful internship positions throughout our company 
in areas such as finance, sales, technology, marketing 
and human capital. 
Our Disability Inclusion Internship Program provides 
individuals of all disabilities meaningful employment 
opportunities. The Disability Equality Index® named 
UnitedHealth Group one of the best places to work for 
disability inclusion in 2020. Earning a top score reflects the company’s strong alignment with leading disability 
inclusion practices and the opportunity to go even 
further with our efforts. 
We recruit active-duty and veteran members of 
the military and their spouses through programs, 
partnerships and events. The partnership with the 
Department of Defense SkillBridge Program and our 
UnitedHealth Group Military Fellowship program provides 
career skills training and workforce reintegration to 
transitioning active-duty service members. 
We support the LGBTQ+ community by investing in 
organizations such as Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA) and 
Proud to Work. UnitedHealth Group earned a 100% 
rating in the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2020 
Corporate Equality Index and was designated as one of the Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality.
We create opportunities for students with diverse 
backgrounds to begin their careers at our company and see firsthand how they can contribute to the future of 
health care through career development and internship 
programs.
95
students from historically 
underrepresented 
backgrounds interned with 
UnitedHealth Group in 2020
68%
of fellows converted  
to employees
93%
retention rateINROADS
Military  
Fellowships~800
interns from approximately 
200 colleges and universities 
participated in our Enterprise 
Internship Experience
269
interns participated in  
our Technology Development 
Program globally
75
interns participated 
in our graduate level 
internship programStudent  
OpportunitiesOUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE   41
SUPPORTING PAY EQUITY
A 2020 review of our integrated workforce – including our 
global operations – indicates females earn $1 for every $1 
males earn performing similar work at similar levels. In 
addition, people of color in the U.S. earn $1 for every $1 white 
employees earn performing similar work at similar levels.In addition, to prevent pay inequities at hire, we do not 
ask candidates in the U.S. about salary history during the 
hiring process. This practice helps us remove any bias 
that can come from the crafting of initial compensation 
packages based on salary history.
We are committed to and continue to prioritize pay equity for all employees. Fair and equitable compensation practices 
within a pay-for-performance framework support our culture and are critical to achieving our mission. 
We continue to work with independent, third-party experts to perform reviews of our compensation practices and 
evaluate pay equity in several respects, including by gender, ethnicity and race. 42   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SUSTAINING HIGH 
PERFORMANCE, WELL-
BEING AND RESILIENCE
MENTAL HEALTH  
AND RESILIENCE
We take a holistic approach to our employees’ health, 
supporting both their physical and mental health. 
All employees have access to Optum’s Sanvello® – a 
digital tool for stress, anxiety and depression – which offers a variety of virtual mental health support including 
self-care, peer support, coaching and therapy.
To support our clinical workforce, we introduced several 
programs to specifically address emotional well-being, 
resilience, burnout prevention and collaboration within 
the clinical environment, recognizing the added stress of 
caring for patients during a global pandemic.11k
employees registered 
for Sanvello, including 
4.8k during the onset 
of COVID-19
31%
decrease in self-
reported anxietyOur Rewards for Health Program supports the health journeys of our employees and their families with incentives to 
take positive actions to improve their health.IMPROVING HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
Rewards for Health Program Outcomes
44%
completed a 
preventive screening78%
completed a risk 
assessment or survey29%
met personal body 
mass index target40%
met personal blood 
pressure targetWe foster an environment in which our team members can do their life’s best work in 
service of the communities and people we serve. 
Our team members bring their whole selves to fulfill our mission. In return, we actively 
support our colleagues  in every facet of their lives – from their well-being and resilience 
to rewarding and recognizing outstanding performance. OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE   43
DEVELOPING AND 
GROWING OUR TALENT
Helping to create a modern, high-performing health system requires a workforce that 
is constantly learning and innovating. Career pathing needs to start early, with robust virtual onboarding and digital tools for self-assessment, development planning and learning to help our team members grow their careers at UnitedHealth Group. 
Our talent development initiatives 
provide employees with self-assessment 
tools, learning experiences, formal 
and informal education, mentoring 
opportunities and rotations to grow their 
skills and careers. 
These programs offer curated and 
experience-based learning opportunities 
that leverage artificial intelligence and 
machine learning to identify and provide 
individualized development opportunities. 
We offer robust career development 
through our Center for Clinical Advancement, Optum Tech University, 
Technical Leadership Development, 
and investments in the training and 
development of our team members.Our Common Language of Leadership 
(CLL) provides a vocabulary to describe 
the behaviors necessary for success, 
ensuring we have a shared language to 
objectively define our expectations for 
leaders to identify, develop and deploy 
talent. 
Employees use a web-based application 
to self-assess their skills and behavioral 
practices and our proprietary system 
uses algorithms to present them with 
the best development pathways based 
on their individual results and needs. This common language is woven into 
our processes for identifying, selecting, 
rotating, developing and rewarding talent 
across the organization.151k
employees completed a 
self-assessment to identify 
strengths and opportunities
67k
employees received 
feedback from their 
manager about their skills
119k
employees have created a career 
goal in their Development Action PlanCommon Language  
of Leadership
44   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS 
PRACTICESRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES   45
UnitedHealth Group’s ability to help in the development 
of a modern, high-performing health system is 
supported by the management structure and 
responsible business practices we have developed over 
our more than 40-year history.
Our principles of ethics and corporate governance 
outline the behaviors and responsibilities that provide 
the foundation for our actions, how we protect the data 
with which we are entrusted, and the expectations we set 
for our suppliers. These practices ensure we are working 
to achieve our mission in a manner consistent with our 
values and those of society at large.
WHAT WE’RE FOCUSED ON: 
Maintaining strong and effective corporate governance 
to drive sustained shareholder value and respond to the 
interests of our shareholders.
Adhering to our values through ethics and compliance 
that guide our behavior and help us remain a trusted partner. 
Maintaining data privacy and cybersecurity, recognizing 
our obligation to build and maintain the trust and 
confidence of our stakeholders and customers, ensuring we can protect the information for all those we serve.
Partnering with suppliers to maximize value in our 
supply chain to ensure we buy the right goods and 
services, from the right suppliers, for the right price, in a timely manner. 
Committing to supplier diversity by developing 
a supplier base that reflects the communities and 
customers we are privileged to serve. MORE THAN 40 YEARS OF 
DEVELOPING STRONG AND EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES 46   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
We believe an effective board consists of a 
diverse group of individuals who bring a variety of 
complementary skills and a range of personal and 
business experience to their positions. The collective 
experience of our directors covers a wide range of 
geographies and industries including health care 
and clinical practice, insurance, consumer products, 
technology, capital markets and financial services, and 
roles in academia, corporate governance, government 
and business leadership. Our directors may serve on no more than three other public company boards and 
our CEO may serve on no more than one other public 
company board.CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
We also strive to maintain a balance of tenure on the board. Since January 2017, six new directors have been 
appointed and five directors have retired. Independent 
board leadership is another important component of 
our governance structure. We separate the positions of 
CEO and chair, and our bylaws require the company to 
have either an independent chair of the board or a lead 
independent director. 
We value and respect the rights of our shareholders 
and have implemented strong shareholder practices. 
Our directors are elected annually by a majority vote of 
our shareholders. UnitedHealth Group does not have a 
dual class share structure and we have no supermajority shareholder approval provisions, as each share of 
common stock is entitled to one vote.
We do not have a shareholder rights plan, commonly 
referred to as a ‘‘poison pill.’’ Shareholders have the right 
to call a special meeting and to act by written consent. 
Our bylaws also contain proxy access with standard 
market provisions.
UnitedHealth Group has a long-standing commitment 
to sustainability. The Public Policy Strategies and 
Responsibility Committee oversees UnitedHealth Group’s 
public policy, health care reform and modernization 
activities, political contributions, and sustainability 
and social responsibility initiatives. The executive 
vice president of Corporate Affairs has management 
responsibility for these activities and engages external stakeholders on ESG initiatives.
Strong and effective governance practices are essential to UnitedHealth Group’s 
long-term value creation. Our board has enhanced governance policies over time to align with best practices, drive sustained shareholder value and be responsive to the interests of our shareholders.
To strengthen our governance, the Board of Directors’ Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee reviews corporate governance practices at least annually and recommends modifications to the board for approval. 
Additional information on our corporate governance policies and board committees is available in our proxy statement 
and on our Corporate Governance webpage . RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES   47
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
At UnitedHealth Group, we understand our tremendous responsibility to do what is best 
for the health and well-being of the millions of people we are privileged to serve. Our values – integrity, compassion, relationships, innovation and performance – guide our behavior and help us maintain the trust that comes with this responsibility.
By adhering to our values, we are well-positioned to achieve our mission to help people 
live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone.
UnitedHealth Group’s Compliance and Ethics Office 
maintains our Code of Conduct, reviewing it regularly to 
ensure continued support of our commitment to integrity 
and good corporate conduct.
Collectively, the expectations set forth in our Code 
of Conduct provide a clear guide for our employees 
to navigate potentially challenging ethical situations, 
including corruption and bribery, discrimination, 
confidentiality of information, conflicts of interest, and 
anti-competitive practices. The Code of Conduct applies 
to all employees, contractors and subsidiaries. New team 
members are required to complete training on the code as 
part of their onboarding, and employees confirm annually they have read the code and will adhere to its principles. 
Our Code of Conduct provides guidelines for helping us sustain the highest possible standards of ethical 
behavior. The code sets expectations for ethical conduct 
across our company, including:
• Integrity
• Accountability
• Fair Competition and Fair Dealing 
• Privacy and Information Security
• Our Assets and the Environment
• Government Interactions
• Communications
• A Safe and Supportive Working Environment48   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS POLICIES 
AND RELATED DOCUMENTSSenior leadership oversees our Compliance and Ethics program and provides regular 
reports to the Audit Committee of the UnitedHealth Group Board of Directors that 
detail performance on key ethics and compliance indicators. UnitedHealth Group’s 
Internal Audit & Advisory Services department provides objective audit and advisory 
services that identify and mitigate risks throughout the company including periodic 
audits of the Compliance and Ethics program.
We encourage our employees to speak up if they see an 
apparent violation of company policy, laws, regulations or 
contractual obligations. We provide many ways to report 
ethical, legal, regulatory and policy concerns, including 
the Compliance and Ethics HelpCenter. Any team 
member or outside party can report ethical concerns 
through the HelpCenter anonymously, where permitted 
by law, and is protected from retaliation whenever they 
report a concern in good faith. Reports are reviewed, analyzed and investigated by the appropriate individuals 
within UnitedHealth Group.
Our communications with customers, members, 
employees, clinicians and other stakeholders reflect our 
values and commitment to high standards of personal 
and institutional integrity. Our sales and marketing 
activities serve our business objectives, foster enduring 
relationships with our stakeholders, and build trust 
one person at a time. Our reputation stands upon the 
relationships we maintain with the public, the media and 
those who interact with our company.
Our marketing materials are reviewed for accuracy 
and clarity and for compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations, such as the Medicare Communications and 
Marketing Guidelines established by the U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. These materials seek to 
contain straightforward descriptions of the services we 
offer so our members can make informed decisions about 
their health care. 98%
of employees  
annually attest to the 
Code of Conduct
UnitedHealth Group maintains internal policies at the 
enterprise, business segment and department levels 
that provide more specific direction beyond the core 
elements of the Code of Conduct. Examples of key 
Compliance and Ethics policies include:
• Anti-Corruption Policy 
• Anti-Kickback Policy
• Anti-Trust Policy
• Conflicts of Interest Policy
• Economic Sanctions and Sanctions Monitoring Policy
• False Claims Acts Compliance Policy
• Gifts and Entertainment Policy
• Human Rights Policy
• Environmental Health and Safety Policy
• Insider Trading Policy
• Interactions with Pharmaceutical, Medical Device or 
Biotech Manufacturers, Wholesalers or Distributors
• Non-Discrimination Policy
• Non-Retaliation Policy
• Personal Information Privacy and Data Protection
• Reporting Misconduct 
• Political Contributions Policy
• Outside Directorships Policy
• Related-Person Transactions Approval
• Social Media Policy and Guidelines
• Statement of Ethical Marketing
• Travel and Expense Management Policy
• U.S. Federal Government Contracting PolicyRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES   49
DATA PRIVACY AND 
CYBERSECURITY
We believe health care data and related information should be used solely for the 
purposes of improving individual health, advancing health system performance and to aid in new health care discoveries.
While health care data and information are critical to our ability to serve our 
customers and the health system, this information is highly sensitive and personal. As a result, we have an obligation to build and maintain the trust and confidence of our customers and stakeholders, ensuring we can protect the information for all those we serve and fulfill our obligation to appropriately and properly use this information. The primary tools we use to fulfill these obligations are our cybersecurity and privacy and data governance programs.
50   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
We regularly evaluate the security maturity of our 
systems. This assurance program includes vulnerability 
assessments and penetration tests conducted by our 
internal team and qualified external assessors. These 
efforts allow us to identify operational and design risks 
and vulnerabilities in our systems. We use these tests 
to help us identify opportunities to address emerging 
security threats and improve the security of our systems 
as we continually work to enhance our ability to protect 
the information and data to which we have access.
Annually, we conduct an enterprise information risk 
assessment (EIRA) in conjunction with UnitedHealth 
Group’s overall enterprise risk management assessment. 
In the EIRA, we complete a comprehensive review of 
internal and external threats and evaluate changes to the 
information risk landscape to inform the investments and 
program enhancements we will make in the coming year.
Our IT infrastructure and information security 
management system have been audited by external 
auditors in the last fiscal year – including HITRUST CSF – 
and through internal audits.
We believe protecting personal health information is 
the responsibility of the entire health care system. In 
2008, UnitedHealth Group entered into a partnership 
with organizations from across our industry to develop a common security framework for the health care 
industry. The result of this collaboration is the HITRUST 
Risk Management Framework, which combines best 
practice standards from frameworks such as HIPAA, 
ISO, EU GDPR, NIST and PCI to provide a scalable, risk-
based certification for health care organizations and 
organizations that participate in the health care supply 
chain. UnitedHealth Group uses this framework in 
conjunction with other vulnerability and risk assessments as part of our continuous monitoring framework to assess 
our key application and technical systems and continually 
enhance our cybersecurity practices.UnitedHealth Group manages cybersecurity and privacy and data governance through a framework that 
provides our team members with training and resources 
that support their day-to-day activities, assesses the 
risks our company faces and establishes polices and 
safeguards to protect our systems and the information of 
those we serve. 
Our Code of Conduct outlines our commitment to 
protecting the information with which we are entrusted.
Supported by a comprehensive set of principles, our 
policies and programs describe appropriate uses of data 
and the safeguards that protect the confidentiality and 
integrity of our systems, including:
 
• Enterprise information security policies.
• An enterprise resiliency and response program.
• An incident management program that encompasses 
cybersecurity, privacy and compliance obligations.
• Privacy and data protection policies, including guidance on information handling.
• An enterprise data governance program, including related policies.
• Enterprise risk management and information risk analysis programs.
• The Safe with Me employee training and awareness program.
UnitedHealth Group’s chief information officer, chief 
privacy officer and chief information security officer 
are responsible for administering our data privacy and 
security programs. The Audit Committee of the Board 
of Directors receives regular updates on critical issues 
related to our information security risks, cybersecurity 
strategy and business continuity capabilities.
We are establishing a Cybersecurity Leadership Council 
(CLC) to enable aligned executive ownership and delivery 
of information security initiatives across UnitedHealth 
Group. The chief information officer of each line of 
business or a chief information security officer will 
sponsor each initiative and lead implementation. The CLC 
will oversee analysis, risk tolerance, policy, funding and 
implementation of information security initiatives, and the transition to standard operating processes to ensure 
sustainability.RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES   51
SUPPLY CHAIN 
MANAGEMENT
UnitedHealth Group executes an enterprisewide 
Supplier Risk Management Program that is centrally 
managed by our Enterprise Sourcing & Procurement 
(ES&P) team. This program provides the structure and 
framework for supplier risk management and includes 
a set of common standards, including regulatory and 
compliance requirements, applicable to suppliers that 
participate in the health care value chain. 
Because UnitedHealth Group is entrusted with the 
protection of individuals’ most sensitive and personal 
health data, we place the utmost importance on protecting 
our data and information systems. We require suppliers 
with access to our information systems, customer data or 
health plan member data to have the appropriate security 
controls in place prior to doing business with us, including 
maintaining their HITRUST certification or an acceptable 
third-party validated assessment.
We ensure our suppliers meet our performance 
expectations through a systematic Supplier Performance 
Management Program that monitors our most critical 
suppliers’ performance on a monthly basis on contractual 
Service Level Agreements related to service delivery, 
quality and value delivery. 
Data-driven supplier performance scorecards are 
shared quarterly with executive leadership to identify performance trends and areas of opportunity in order to develop improvement plans for underperforming suppliers. Suppliers are evaluated on criteria such 
as financial stability, cybersecurity and regulatory 
compliance, organization resiliency, diversity 
participation and NPS.
We are adding value and reducing costs in the health 
care supply chain. Pharmacy is the most frequent 
touch point in health care. OptumRx works directly with 
pharmaceutical manufacturers to secure discounts that lower the overall cost of medications and create tailored 
formularies – or drug lists – to ensure people get the right 
medications. We then negotiate with pharmacies to lower 
costs at the point of sale.
We also operate prescription home delivery – which 
has led to 20% better medication adherence – provide 
multidose packaging and function as a specialty 
pharmacy and infusion provider. We work directly with drug wholesalers and distributors to ensure consistency 
of the brand and generic drug supply, and a reliance on 
that drug supply.
We engage our suppliers and business partners to reduce 
the environmental impact of our supply chain and ensure 
efficient distribution and logistics. We formally review the 
sustainability practices of our most critical suppliers to 
identify supplier policies and goals for waste and carbon reduction, recycling and other sustainability measurements.UnitedHealth Group partners with suppliers who are integral to helping us achieve 
our mission. Our supply chain consists of two distinct supplier bases: direct and indirect suppliers. UnitedHealth Group purchases pharmaceuticals and health care products through our direct suppliers and other goods and services through our indirect suppliers. 
Our procurement departments collaborate with our business segments to identify, 
engage and manage our supplier base to meet business objectives, enable growth and mitigate risk for UnitedHealth Group and the individuals we serve. We maximize value in our supply chain by creating competitive markets for our internal business needs to ensure we buy the right goods and services, from the right suppliers, for the right price, in a timely manner. 52   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Supplier diversity is managed by our ES&P team.  
Every request for proposal (RFP) managed by the 
Enterprise Sourcing & Procurement (ES&P) team targets 
inclusion of at least one diverse supplier, where available. 
RFPs are evaluated through a balanced scorecard that 
considers supplier diversity alongside key factors such 
as cost, quality and service delivery. In addition, supplier 
diversity objectives are built into the development 
strategies and the annual performance objectives for all 
categories managed by the ES&P team. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
UnitedHealth Group’s supplier diversity demonstrates our commitment to developing 
a supplier base that reflects the communities and customers we are privileged to serve. Fulfilling this commitment helps drive value creation for our businesses, positively impacts the communities we serve, and allows us to extend our societal impact beyond our members and customers. 
Our ES&P team works to identify opportunities for 
certified minority-owned, women-owned, veteran-owned, 
disability-owned, LGBTQ+-owned and other historically 
underutilized businesses. We also work with state 
and local governments, minority business groups and 
nonprofit organizations to identify sourcing opportunities 
for diverse suppliers where possible.
We extend our supplier diversity efforts deeper into 
our supply chain by working with Tier 2 suppliers. Participating suppliers are expected to incorporate 
supplier diversity into their own sourcing practices. We 
receive a supplier diversity spending report from each 
participating supplier on a quarterly basis.
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES   53
Diverse suppliers played a notable role in 
supporting our STOP COVID initiative by 
securing much needed PPE and providing 
print and fulfillment services, public 
relations support and temporary labor 
resources for underserved communities 
affected by COVID-19.
We developed a pro bono accelerator 
model to build the capacity of diverse 
suppliers, with the goal of growing their business with us, as well as other 
companies. In 2020, we piloted the 
program with Bracane, a Black- and 
woman-owned consultancy focused on 
clinical research in minority populations 
and health disparities. Through this 
partnership, Bracane was better 
positioned to help more clients create an 
equitable care environment and increase their own revenue growth. We plan to 
expand this program in 2021 and beyond.
Additionally, over the past two years, 
we’ve established a Supplier Diversity 
Ambassador Program, a cross-functional 
working group of business partners who 
help to build awareness of the value of 
supplier diversity and drive greater use of diverse suppliers across our company. 
Since its inception, the program has 
helped increase centrally managed spend 
with diverse suppliers by 10% annually.
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY PARTNERSHIPS 
AND RECOGNIZED CERTIFICATIONS
• National Minority Supplier Development Council 
and 23 Regional Affiliates 
• Women Business Enterprise National Council  and 14 Regional Partner Organizations
• U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs• National Veterans Business Development Council
• Disability:IN
• National LGBT Chamber of Commerce
• National Association of Women Business Owners
• Diversity Alliance for Science$1.1B
in revenues earned by 
businesses in our diverse 
supply chain
8.2k+
jobs supported
$443M
in employee wagesIn 2020 our direct 
spending on diverse 
suppliers resulted inOver the past decade, UnitedHealth Group has spent over $3.5 billion with 
diverse suppliers.
We have conducted an impact assessment 
of our diverse supplier spending to better 
understand how our efforts are supporting 
local communities. This study considers 
the direct economic impact our spending 
has on suppliers, the indirect impact our suppliers have on their suppliers and 
the impact our investments have on the 
communities where our suppliers operate. 
In 2021, we’re excited to host our inaugural 
Diverse Supplier Summit, at which 
external partners can learn more about our 
company and connect with our business 
and procurement community, as well as our prime suppliers who are also interested 
in engaging with diverse suppliers.
*
*Economic impact modeling developed by Supplier.IO based on an analysis of data provided by UnitedHealth Group and information from additional sources.54   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL 
HEALTHENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH   55
At UnitedHealth Group, we understand the important 
role the environment plays in the health of every 
community. We believe the environment is a key part of 
what makes the communities in which we live and work 
sustainable, viable and healthy. We also appreciate 
that a changing environment can impact our ability to 
accomplish our mission. 
We value and promote genuine, environmentally 
responsible behaviors on behalf of our company, our 
employees and our partners in the communities we 
are privileged to serve. And we behave in a way that 
will reduce our environmental footprint by taking 
meaningful and transparent actions.
WHAT WE’RE FOCUSED ON: 
Maintaining sound governance and oversight of our environmental management efforts. 
Minimizing our impact on the environment by reducing 
our carbon footprint, efficient water and energy usage, 
comprehensive waste management programs and employee engagements.
Engaging our stakeholders – including team members 
and partner organizations – to promote and practice 
environmental responsibility.RECOGNIZING THE ROLE 
THE ENVIRONMENT PLAYS IN THE HEALTH OF EVERY COMMUNITY56   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL 
GOVERNANCE
Our environmental management efforts are overseen by UnitedHealth Group’s chief 
financial officer and senior vice president of Corporate Services. The Public Policy Strategies and Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors oversees our Corporate Environmental Policy .
The vice president of Operations and Facilities Management is responsible for goal setting, strategy development, 
performance and risk management, project execution, reporting and leading our Environmental Management team – a 
cross-functional working group including representatives from Enterprise Real Estate Services, Enterprise Sourcing & 
Procurement, Enterprise Health & Safety, Enterprise Resiliency and Response, Corporate Affairs, Human Capital, Legal 
and representatives from our Optum and UnitedHealthcare businesses. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH   57
Reducing carbon emissions  has been a long-standing 
priority for our company. Our global energy conservation 
program is a fundamental part of our carbon emissions 
reduction strategy, focusing on the integration of core 
sustainability principles in the management of our global 
real estate portfolio. 
Our 2020 reported annual carbon emissions data is the 
most comprehensive to date and includes integrated 
global real estate operations in the United States, the 
Republic of Ireland, the United Kingdom and the Asia-
Pacific region. MINIMIZING OUR IMPACT 
ON THE ENVIRONMENT
To implement low cost/no cost energy 
conservation projects and to identify 
capital investment opportunities, our 
facilities management team works in 
partnership with the Environmental 
Management Team. For instance – at 
the Optum Headquarters in Eden 
Prairie, Minnesota – our upgrade of 
fluorescent lamps to LED has helped to 
reduce our overall electricity usage. 
Additionally, we strive to apply high-
performance design and construction 
best practices across our real estate portfolio. 
2x
In 2020, UnitedHealth 
Group more than 
doubled our purchase 
of unbundled renewable 
energy credits.
8k
fluorescent lamps upgraded to 
LED at the Optum headquarters2.7M
square feet of LEED certified facilities 
across UnitedHealth Group’s portfolio427k
kWh reduction in annual electricity 
use due to Optum lamp upgrades
UnitedHealth Group is committed to transparently minimizing our company’s 
environmental impact by reducing our carbon footprint, ensuring efficient use of water and energy, developing and implementing comprehensive recycling and waste management programs, and engaging our employees and partners in thoughtful, goal-based environmental stewardship. 58   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
We identify water efficiency opportunities through 
construction standards that routinely incorporate water 
efficient fixtures and fittings for planned projects. In 
response to COVID-19 and with a special focus on 
employee health and well-being, we deployed touchless 
fixtures and upgraded restrooms across the U.S. 
 
80%+of our managed U.S. sites 
meet LEED criteria, achieving our water efficiency goal
Diverting waste from landfills and minimizing waste 
generated in our operations help reduce our impact 
on the environment. In 2020, we completed our Twin 
Cities Waste Pilot Program that implemented back of house composting and more sustainable USDA Certified 
Biobased and Green Seal Certified brown paper towels at 
our Eden Prairie and Minnetonka, Minnesota, sites. 
Across six sites in California we also implemented front of 
house composting, which included adding compost bins 
to employee breakrooms and cafés. These best practices 
will be deployed to our Eden Prairie and Minnetonka sites. 
Bevi flavored-water dispensers were installed across U.S. 
locations as part of Stride – our internal employee well-
being program – which reduced the use of single-use 
beverage containers. 4k
touchless fixtures 
installed at sites 
across the U.S.155
sites received 
restroom 
upgrades
We are managing and reducing paper-based waste generated from our business operations through Shred All, our confidential paper recycling program, as well as investments in digital 
capabilities that help us reduce paper use in our business operations. 
We’ve implemented a multiyear project to reduce the quantity of printers at administrative office 
locations. In 2020, we also deployed new employee productivity tools to help enable more efficient 
and digitally focused solutions.
Our members can opt in to receive digital communications for informational letters, explanation of 
benefits and health statements. Beyond reducing paper-based communications, those who opt in 
receive communications more quickly and via their preferred method.4.9k
tons of paper 
destroyed and recycled 
in the U.S. in 2020
83k
trees saved in 20204.7Mestimated single-use 
bottles saved since 2019 by installing water dispensers
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH   59
Our culture empowers team members to engage in 
actions to preserve the environment, conserve natural 
resources and reduce energy in our business operations. 
United for the Planet – a team initially formed by 
employees in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, to identify and 
implement environmental programs in the workplace –  
expanded nationwide in 2020 and participation grew 
nearly eightfold. ENGAGING OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS
UnitedHealth Group is committed to engaging our stakeholders – which include our 
team members and partner organizations – in our efforts to promote and practice environmental responsibility.
The United for the Planet team 
helped build the framework for 
location-based landfill diversion 
goals and provided employee 
education to help with initiatives 
such as expanding food and 
paper towel composting and 
recycling best practices.Our United for the Planet  
team grew to  
300+
employees in 2020  
from 40 in 2019
60   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PERFORMANCE 
DATAPERFORMANCE DATA   61
OUR PEOPLE & CULTURE1
2018 2019 2020
Global Workforce 300k 325k 330k
Employee Engagement283% NA NA
Employee Experience2NA 71% 76%
Employee Volunteer Hours 2.5M 2.6M 2.6M
Hours of Training per Employee  
(Average per FTE)3 35 28 19
Workforce Diversity
% Female (Global Workforce) 66% 69% 70%
% Female (U.S. Workforce) 73% 73% 75%
% People of Color (U.S. Workforce)441% 40% 41%
Gender Leadership Diversity% Female in Management Positions 55% 55% 56%
% Female in Junior Management 
Positions62% 62% 62%
% Female in Top Management 
Positions38% 36% 37%
% Female in Revenue-Generating 
Positions63% 62% 63%
Workforce Generational Diversity
% Traditionalists (75+) <1% <1% <1%
% Baby Boomers (56-74) 10% 9% 8%
% Generation X (41-55) 47% 46% 45%
% Generation Y/Millennial (25-40) 43% 45% 47%
% Generation Z (Under 25) <1% <1% <1%
Hiring and Voluntary Turnover% External Female Hired  
(U.S. Workforce)73% 72% 74%
% External People of Color Hired  (U.S. Workforce)51% 53% 52%
% Asian 9% 8% 7%
% Black/African American 21% 21% 20%
% Hispanic/Latino 16% 19% 20%
% Two or More Ethnic Groups 4% 4% 4%
% All Other Races 1% 1% 1%
% Total Voluntary Turnover  (Global Workforce)13% 14% 12%2018 2019 2020
People of Color Leadership Diversity (U.S. Workforce)
% People of Color in Management 
Positions27% 27% 29%
% Asian 8% 8% 9%
% Black/African American 8% 8% 8%
% Hispanic/Latino 8% 8% 9%
% Two or More Ethnic Groups 2% 2% 2%
% All Other Races 1% 1% 1%
% People of Color in Junior 
Management Positions34% 34% 36%
% Asian 5% 5% 5%
% Black/African American 13% 12% 13%
% Hispanic/Latino 12% 13% 14%
% Two or More Ethnic Groups 3% 3% 3%
% All Other Races 1% 1% 1%
% People of Color in Top Management Positions10% 11% 11%
% Asian 5% 5% 6%
% Black/African American 2% 2% 2%
% Hispanic/Latino 2% 3% 2%
% Two or More Ethnic Groups 1% 1% 1%
% All Other Races <1% <1% <1%
% People of Color in Revenue-Generating Positions27% 27% 28%
% Asian 6% 6% 6%
% Black/African American 9% 9% 9%
% Hispanic/Latino 9% 9% 10%
% Two or More Ethnic Groups 2% 2% 2%
% All Other Races 1% 1% 1%
Our Performance Data is primarily focused on data from our integrated entities. 
Our consolidated EE0-1 , representing U.S.-based employees as of December 
2020, is available for download on our website.62  2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH82018 2019 2020
Corporate Governance
One Share One Vote Yes Yes Yes
Proxy Access Yes Yes Yes
Say on Pay Frequency Annual Annual Annual
Directors on Board 11 11 10
Independent Directors 9 9 8
Female Directors 3 3 3
Directors of Color 2 2 2
Average Director Tenure 10.2 12.5 13.1
Separate CEO/Chair Yes Yes Yes
Lead Independent Director or Chair Yes Yes Yes
Majority Voting for Directors Yes Yes Yes
2018 2019 2020
Energy (MWh)Total Energy Consumption 365,005 375,673 381,692 
Non-Renewable Energy Use 364,269 367,457 362,045 
Renewable Energy Use 736 8,216 19,647 
Reduction of Energy Consumption 0.4% (2.9%) (1.6%)
Energy Intensity (per USD revenue, 
billions)1,613.30 1,551.37 1,484.37 
Carbon Emissions (mtCO2e)
Scope 1 13,933 17,709 24,487
Scope 2 (Location-Based) 153,754 153,004 156,751
Scope 2 (Market-Based) 155,700 149,418 148,741
Scope 3 298,680 429,812 213,495 
Total (Scope 1+2 Location-Based) 167,687 170,713 181,238 
Total (Scope 1+2  
Location-Based + 3)466,367 600,524 394,733 
Emissions Reduction (Scope 1+2 Location-Based) (%)3.2% (1.8%) (6.17%)
Emissions Intensity (Scope 1+2 Location-Based)  (per USD revenue, billions)741.17 704.97 704.82 2018 2019 2020
Water (Mio. m3)
Municipal Water Use  0.74  0.65 0.56
Waste (Metric Tonnes)
Total Waste Generated  15,521  15,361 14,366
Waste Used/Recycled/Sold  8,475  7,964 6,709
Waste Disposed  7,046  7,398 7,658
Confidential Paper Recycling (U.S. tons)  7,743  6,415 4,888
Environmental Operations (Square Feet, millions)
LEED Certified Facilities  1.6  2.1  2.7 2018 2019 2020
Supplier DiversityTotal Spend with Diverse Suppliers  
(Tier 1 and Tier 2)
5 $602M  $617M $717M
Tier 16
Diverse Suppliers 744 670 627
Average Spend/Diverse Supplier $707K $780K $894K
Tier 2
Participating Suppliers 50 60 78
Economic Impact
Jobs Created and Sustained through  
our Supplier Diversity Program7 7,672 8,221
Supplier Sustainability
Suppliers Screened for Sustainability 
Programs & Practices562 433 491ABOUT THIS REPORT   63
This report covers the complete 
fiscal year, dating January 1, 2020, to December 31, 2020. Please contact sustainability@uhg.com with any questions regarding this report or our sustainability efforts.ABOUT THIS  
REPORT
1. Our social indicators (e.g., our people and culture data) cover over 75% 
of our revenue.
2. In 2019, we transitioned from employee engagement to a more comprehensive employee experience index which represents our new measurement going forward.
3. Training hours are restated from the 2019 report due to a learning management system methodology change.
4. Updates or changes to employee records (e.g., employees increasingly declaring their race/ethnicity or updates to job information) have impacted representation, therefore we have restated our 2017-2019 data.
5. Includes UnitedHealth Group’s and Optum Care’s nonintegrated entities’ operating expense with certified U.S. diverse suppliers. This is a restatement from the 2019 report due to removal of medical expense from the calculation and combining Tier 1 and Tier 2 spend.
6. This is a restatement from the 2019 report due to removal of medical expense from the calculation.
7. Applies to Tier 1 Diverse Supplier spend only. 
8. Please see UnitedHealth Group’s Environmental Impact Statement for detailed footnotes regarding this data.Forward-Looking Statements
The statements, estimates, projections, guidance or 
outlook contained in this document include “forward-
looking” statements which are intended to take 
advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the federal 
securities law. The words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” 
“estimate,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “outlook,” “plan,” 
“project,” “should” and similar expressions identify 
forward-looking statements. These statements may 
contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions and trends and involve risks and uncertainties. 
We discuss certain risks that may affect our business 
operations, financial condition and results of operations 
more fully in our filings with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, including our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q 
and 8-K. By their nature, forward-looking statements 
are not guarantees of future performance or results and 
are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that 
are difficult to predict or quantify. Actual results may vary materially from expectations expressed or implied 
in this document or any of our prior communications. 
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking 
statements, which speak only as of the date they are 
made. We do not undertake to update or revise any 
forward-looking statements, except as required by law. ©2021 All Rights Reserved.