Helping Build 
Healthier 
CommunitiesOur Mission
Our mission is to help people live healthier lives and to help make the health system work better for everyone.
Our Culture
The people of UnitedHealth Group are aligned around core values that inspire our behavior as individuals and  
as an organization: 
Integrity.  Honor commitments. Never compromise ethics. 
Compassion.  Walk in the shoes of people we serve and those with whom we work. 
Relationships.  Build trust through collaboration. 
Innovation.  Invent the future and learn from the past. 
Performance.  Demonstrate excellence in everything we do.
Contents
2     Our People
4     Our Partners
8     Environment
9     Awards & Recognition
UnitedHealth Group   |   Helping Build Healthier Communities
On the cover:  The United Health Foundation and Recipe for Success, an organization committed to combating childhood 
obesity, have teamed up to change the way children understand and choose what to eat. Helping the community provide 
healthier diets for kids can promote better food choices in future generations, the effects of which can last a lifetime.UnitedHealth Group   |   Helping Build Healthier Communities   |   1The people of UnitedHealth Group are driven by our mission to help people live healthier lives and to 
help make the health system work better for everyone. Our social responsibility and philanthropic eff  orts 
are aligned with our mission and values, supporting initiatives that combine our knowledge, experience 
and compassion — as an enterprise and as individuals — to improve health quality and outcomes in the communities where we live and work.
Our People and Our Partners
Our aspiration for higher-quality care for all and health care systems that serve more people with better care 
worldwide presents a huge opportunity. Our people demonstrate their conviction to helping build healthier communities by giving generously to charitable causes they care deeply about and volunteering their personal time, skills and energy to serve others. Through the power of collaboration and teamwork with partners who share our concerns and our desire to make life better for others we are making meaningful progress around the world.DRIVEN BY OUR MISSION AND SUPPORTED BY 
OUR CORE VALUES, WE ARE HELPING BUILD HEALTHIER COMMUNITIES.
UnitedHealthcare  (www.uhc.com) serves nearly 
50 million people worldwide by off  ering medical 
benefits for individuals and students; employers of all sizes; and Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries and retirees.Optum  (www.optum.com) is a leading information 
and technology-enabled health services business that delivers intelligent, integrated solutions that help modernize the health system and improve overall population health.Our Company
UnitedHealth Group serves people through two distinct, complementary businesses:2    |   UnitedHealth Group   |   Helping Build Healthier CommunitiesUnitedHealthcare  
Children’s Foundation
Since 2007, the UnitedHealthcare Children’s Foundation 
(UHCCF) has offered medical grants that provide financial 
relief for families who have children with medical needs 
not covered, or not fully covered, by their commercial 
health insurance plan. Families do not need to have 
UnitedHealthcare insurance to be eligible. 
Through the generosity of more than 6,500 UnitedHealth 
Group employees, the United Health Foundation, other 
individuals and corporations, UHCCF celebrated  
a record year in 2018, awarding 3,242 medical grants. Over 
the last 11 years, the organization has awarded more than 
18,600 grants valued at $45.1 million, and has impacted the 
lives of more than 80,000 individuals. The UHCCF is well on  
target to award its 20,000th medical grant in 2020.  
 To learn more about the UnitedHealthcare Children's 
Foundation, visit www.UHCCF.org.Employee Giving  
& Volunteering
Our people generously contribute all year long to causes 
and organizations close to their hearts. The United Health 
Foundation, a not-for-profit, private foundation established 
by UnitedHealth Group and dedicated to improving health 
and health care, matches employee contributions, dollar 
for dollar, to nearly all nonprofit organizations, doubling 
the impact. Employees have the ability to give whenever, 
wherever and however they choose.
In 2018, employee contributions combined with the United 
Health Foundation match totaled $55 million. Employees 
contributed to 23,000 charitable causes.
In addition to financial support, our people give their time  
and talents to help build healthier communities.  
For example, employees recently provided flu shots for 
homeless individuals in Chile; filled backpacks with new 
school supplies and donated them to Flint, Michigan, area 
students; upgraded school fitness spaces in Los Angeles, 
Chicago and Hartford; and packed meals to fight hunger 
throughout the United States. Our People
UnitedHealth Group’s year-round  giving  program supports employees’ desires and efforts to give back 
to the communities where they live and work, across the nation and around the world. Through charitable 
contributions and volunteering, our people are deeply and personally involved in improving the health 
and welfare of their neighbors.
UnitedHealth Group   |   Helping Build Healthier Communities   |   3Employee volunteer hours 
donated in 2018 totaled
2.5MCharities supported 
worldwide through the 
giving program totaled
23,000Our People by the Numbers
Employee giving program 
contributions totaled 
in 2018$55M
The people of UnitedHealth Group, Optum and 
UnitedHealthcare are committed to serving the communities 
where they live and work. In 2018, they contributed 
2.5 million volunteer hours to help others – 1 million more 
hours than in 2017.  Here are just two examples of the 
impact of their charitable initiatives:
The Walk to End Alzheimer’s
Team members from across UnitedHealth Group participated 
in the Walk to End Alzheimer's to show their commitment 
to helping the millions of seniors who are aff  ected by this 
devastating disease. More than 1,400 UnitedHealth Group 
employees took part in walks in 96 cities across the U.S., 
raising nearly $150,000 for Alzheimer's care, support and research.Help for Homeless Veterans
Optum and UnitedHealthcare team members joined forces to 
pack veteran care kits, containing hygiene and comfort items, 
and helped distribute them to homeless veterans through the 
American Red Cross' Service to the Armed Forces program. 
Teams collected soap, shampoo, conditioner, dental care 
products and more. 
With the outpouring of support from team members, 
UnitedHealthcare and Optum were able to assemble 500 
care kits, double their goal of 250. The kits were distributed 
in Minnesota during a Stand Down event where supplies and 
services are provided to homeless veterans.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/socialresponsibilityTo read more stories about how our employees 
support their local communities, visit:
Team members from across 
UnitedHealth Group participated in the Walk to End Alzheimer's to show their commitment to helping the millions of people and their families aff  ected by this disease.
FEATURE:  TEAM MEMBERS UNITE TO SERVE THEIR COMMUNITIES4    |   UnitedHealth Group   |   Helping Build Healthier CommunitiesOur Partners
The power of partnerships and collaboration is key to building healthier communities.  We partner with 
organizations committed to making health care better through innovation, local insight and perseverance 
in the face of tremendous challenges. Together, we're discovering new insights into the health of our 
communities and helping to create the path to a healthier future. These partnerships focus on the following four areas: Connecting Individuals to Quality Care; Creating a 21st Century Health Workforce; 
Supporting Whole-Person Health; and Serving Distinct Populations. 
Community Outreach Targets Oral Cancer 
in Kentucky 
Kentucky has a growing problem with access to dental care 
and oral health services. According to the United Health Foundation’s 2018 America’s Health Rankings, the number of dentists per capita has declined for three straight years.
Kentucky also has one of the nation’s highest incidences of 
oral cancer, according to the National Institutes of Health, and the prevalence of oral cancer in Harlan, Letcher and Pike counties in eastern Kentucky is as much as 54 percent higher than the state average. Oral cancer has a high rate of mortality; only about 57 percent of people survive five years after diagnosis, due in large part to late discovery.
A $1 million grant from the United Health Foundation is
helping the University of Kentucky College of Dentistry (UKCD) launch its “Eradicate Oral Cancer in Eastern Kentucky” project, 
an integrated outreach and care program delivered to community residents through their local health departments. 
The goal of the three-year project is to raise public awareness of the symptoms of oral cancer and its link to heavy alcohol 
and tobacco use, provide approximately 1,000 oral cancer screenings at local health departments and help connect patients who need additional care to cancer specialists. 
UKCD will share the findings from the “Eradicate Oral Cancer in Eastern Kentucky” project in presentations to state and 
national organizations, along with guidance on how the program could be replicated or adapted in other communities.Connecting Individuals to Quality Care
A grant from the United Health Foundation is helping the 
University of Kentucky College of Dentistry launch a project to "Eradicate Oral Cancer in Eastern Kentucky."UnitedHealth Group   |   Helping Build Healthier Communities   |   5Insight into the Health of Military 
Service Members
In October, the United Health Foundation released the 2018 
America's Health Rankings Health of Those Who Have Served Report. This report, created in partnership with the Military Off  icers Association of America (MOAA), is the only national resource to provide comprehensive population-based insights 
into the health of those who have served.
Among the 2018 report's key findings:
•  Those who have served are more likely than civilians to report 
that their health is very good or excellent.
•  Men and women who have served have higher rates of 
depression, anxiety and frequent mental distress than civilian men and women.
The report also documents some encouraging markers of preventive and primary care where those who have served fare better than their civilian counterparts.• Colorectal Cancer Screening: 72.4 percent vs. 66.0 percent• Dental Visit: 69.6 percent vs. 65.2 percent
• Flu Vaccine: 50.6 percent vs. 37.0 percent
• Unmet Medical Need Due to Cost: 8.7 percent vs. 14.1 percent
In total, this report features 31 health measures, including 10 new measures focused on mental health and opioid misuse. These 
new markers of health off  er greater data-driven insights into the strengths and challenges associated with the health of these individuals. By providing new insights on opportunities to improve the health of those who have served, this report reflects the United Health Foundation's commitment to supporting the health of military service members, veterans and their families.Improving Access to Mental Health Care 
for Children 
Suicide among children and teenagers in the U.S. is on the rise. 
Mental health care, especially for children, is lagging behind demand as clinicians struggle to address whole-person health for all age groups. According to the United Health Foundation’s 2018 America's Health Rankings, Kentucky has seen a 25 percent 
increase in teen suicides since 2016. Pathways, Inc., and the 
United Health Foundation recently announced a three-year, $930,000 grant to expand mental health services for young people in eastern Kentucky, using telehealth technology to reach children in underserved rural areas.
Since 1967, Pathways has provided community-based mental 
health care across 10 counties in northeastern Kentucky. It is the only agency in the region that employs psychiatrists for children and adolescents.
The United Health Foundation grant enables Pathways to provide better access to specialty mental health care for the 3,000 
children it serves. Pathways will install and operate telehealth technology at its 16 outpatient off  ices and specialty residential units, eliminating the need for families to drive as long as two hours to access a mental health specialist.
"With the United Health Foundation as our partner, we will be able to provide life-changing services for children and families who 
need specialized mental health care," said Dr. Kimberly McClanahan, chief executive off  icer, Pathways. "We will also be able to 
address the shortage of mental health care providers in rural Kentucky through our new telehealth technology."
Supporting Whole-Person Health
Serving Distinct PopulationsKentucky Health and Family Services Cabinet Secretary Adam Meier 
joined the United Health Foundation and Pathways to announce an initiative to expand mental health services for children in eastern Kentucky using telehealth technology.
The United Health Foundation released the America's Health Rankings Health of Those Who Have Served Report, a check-up on the health of individuals who have served on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces.6    |   UnitedHealth Group   |   Helping Build Healthier Communitieswww.unitedhealthgroup.com/socialresponsibilityFor more information on these and many other 
partnerships and programs, please go to: 
Our Partners by the Numbers
Charitable contributions and 
community relations support 
provided by UnitedHealth Group 
and the United Health Foundation 
for 2018 totaled 
$70MThrough the Diverse Scholars 
Initiative, the United Health 
Foundation has awarded nearly 
2,500 scholarships totaling
since 2007$20MOrganizations supported 
through grants and business 
contributions numbered
2,300
 in 2018Educating the Next Generation of Health 
Data Experts
Investing in tomorrow's health care data scientists is vital 
to helping solve some of the health system's toughest 
challenges and creating the actionable insights needed 
to improve care quality and health outcomes. In 2018 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and the United Health 
Foundation joined forces to expand access to health 
informatics educational opportunities and applied health 
data science research experiences through the Rensselaer 
Institute for Data Exploration and Application (IDEA).
To address the growing need for a larger workforce of 
health data analysts and technologists, the United Health 
Foundation contributed a three-year, $1.1 million grant to launch the "Rensselaer Health Informatics Challenges in 
Technology Education (INCITE) Pipeline" to prepare students through several interrelated initiatives, including:•  enhancing curricula to make health informatics more accessible to  students from an array of majors such as biology 
and mathematics;
• creating a new "synthetic data generator" to expose students to real-world health data challenges and test solutions; and• promoting experiential learning through online challenges available to students at Rensselaer and around the world.
“Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute is a leader in bringing together the physical, digital and biological worlds to drive research 
innovations and distinct educational opportunities,” said Rensselaer President Dr. Shirley Ann Jackson. “Our partnership with the 
United Health Foundation will enable us to expand opportunities for researchers and students to tackle the tough challenges of 
our health care system through the integration of human intelligence with machine intelligence.”
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, founded in 1824, is America’s first technological research university. For nearly 200 years, 
Rensselaer has been defining scientific and technological advances worldwide and addressing the global challenges facing the 
21st century – to change lives, to advance society, and to change the world.
Creating a 21st Century Health Workforce
The Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and the United Health Foundation 
have launched a partnership to address the growing need for a larger workforce of health data analysts and technologists.UnitedHealth Group   |   Helping Build Healthier Communities   |   7
In the Greater Columbus, Ohio, area, three families lose a 
baby every week. To address this critical public health issue, 
the Greater Columbus Infant Mortality Task Force developed 
recommendations to reduce the community’s alarming 
infant mortality rate by 40 percent and cut the racial health 
disparity gap in half by 2020. CelebrateOne was created to 
train and deploy community health workers to help carry out 
the task force's recommendations. One of these community 
health workers is Vanitia Turner.
Vanitia Turner (pictured above, third from left), a mother 
to six children and grandmother to 16 grandchildren, was 
inspired to join CelebrateOne because she knew firsthand 
the painful reality of losing a child too soon. In 2011, Kendalyn 
Rose Gore, Vanitia’s granddaughter, died from sudden infant 
death syndrome while asleep at home. 
Vanitia is helping reduce infant mortality in Columbus by 
connecting Columbus area mothers to essential health and social services, including prenatal care and education, 
easy-to-use cribs, transportation and emergency food 
and housing. “I don’t think any parent or grandparent should go through the death of a child when it’s preventable,” 
says Vanitia. “We want to see babies thrive in their first year 
and thereafter.”CelebrateOne is charged with tackling the most significant factors that contribute to Columbus’ high infant mortality rate:
• Babies born too soon or too small; 
• Exposure to tobacco smoke during pregnancy and 
  secondhand smoke in the early days of life; 
• Sleep-related deaths; and • Health inequities that lead to higher infant mortality 
  rates for black children.
CelebrateOne and Columbus Public Health set a goal of 
adding 72 new community health workers to conduct 
outreach to women of childbearing age in eight Columbus communities. These community health workers are trained 
to connect mothers and mothers-to-be with resources, 
programs and services – such as prenatal care and safe sleep 
practices – to help reduce infant mortality. The initiative was 
funded by a $1.7 million partnership grant from the United Health Foundation in 2016.
As of November 2018, a total of 87 local residents have 
completed the community health worker certification 
program through The Ohio State University College of 
Nursing, surpassing the initial goal of 72. The community 
health workers have educated approximately 25,400 
Columbus mothers and mothers-to-be.
www.unitedhealthgroup.com/socialresponsibilityTo read more stories about our partners, visit:
CelebrateOne community health 
workers are helping mothers in the Greater Columbus, Ohio, area ensure babies are on the best path to a healthy and safe first year of life.
FEATURE:  PARTNERING TO HELP MORE BABIES CELEBRATE THEIR FIRST BIRTHDAY8    |   UnitedHealth Group   |   Helping Build Healthier CommunitiesEnvironment
The environment plays an important role in the health of every community. UnitedHealth Group is committed 
to minimizing our impact on the environment through responsible business operations and creating a company 
culture that heightens our employees’ awareness of the importance of preserving the environment and 
conserving energy and natural resources.
UnitedHealth Group’s green business practices in our day-
to-day work are reducing our impact on the environment in 
various ways across the enterprise. For example, our OptumRx 
business is the first major pharmacy care services company 
to introduce fully sustainable medication packaging that 
replaces polystyrene, or foam. Safeguarding medications 
during home delivery is vital. Many medications, including 
specialty prescriptions, must be kept within strict temperature 
ranges to arrive safely and undamaged at their destinations. 
The new OptumRx packaging is made from 100 percent 
renewable cotton and is biodegradable, compostable, reusable 
and recyclable, while also ensuring the safety and quality of 
medications remain intact.With the elimination of foam commonly used in medication 
home delivery for approximately 4 million prescriptions each 
year, OptumRx projects annual savings of:
• Nearly 2 million pounds of carbon dioxide;  
• 17 million gallons of water; and  
• 4 million kilowatt hours of energy.
UnitedHealth Group also strives to reduce the use of paper and 
increase the amount of paper recycled by offering customers, 
clients, partners and employees paperless options through 
online tools and electronic delivery of forms, billing and other 
information. 
In our facilities, we are endeavoring to reduce controllable 
energy use and greenhouse gas emissions; implement green 
building construction practices; reduce indoor, outdoor and 
cooling tower water use; and align with LEED Guidelines to 
reduce the waste generated by our operations.
Generated a
year-over-year increase in 
tons of paper recycledfunded energy projects 
including interior and 
exterior lighting upgrades15%
Implemented
low cost/no cost energy and 
water conservation projects45Completed
29
Maintained business operations 
in LEED-certified facilities 
(Leadership in Energy & 
Environmental Design) totaling
square feet1.6MRecycled
tons of paper and saved
trees142,0408,355 
Reduced year-over-year 
controllable energy use by
and year-over-year 
greenhouse gas emissions by1.6% 
3.7% UnitedHealth Group Environment by the Numbers*
*Data as of year-end 2017.UnitedHealth Group   |   Helping Build Healthier Communities   |   9Awards & Recognition
• UnitedHealth Group is the top ranking company in the insurance and managed care sector
on Fortune’s 2019 “World’s Most Admired Companies” list. This is the ninth straight year  
UnitedHealth Group ranked No. 1 overall in its sector.
• UnitedHealth Group is listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and
Dow Jones North America Index for 2018 and ranked No. 1 in the Health Care and Providers
& Services Sector. The company has been named to the indices annually since 1999.
• In 2018, for the seventh consecutive year, The Civic 50, a Points of Light initiative that highlights  
companies that improve the quality of life in the communities where they do business, ranked  
UnitedHealth Group one of America’s  50 m ost community- minded compan ies.
• UnitedHealth Group was named one of America’s Most JUST Companies by JUST Capital and 
Forbes in 2018. The JUST 100 rankings measure how U.S. companies perform on issues Americans  
care about most, including worker pay and treatment, customer respect, product quality and  
environmental impact.
• UnitedHealth Group ranked in the top 10 percent o f the largest 500 U.S. companies in corporate  
sustainability and environmental impact in Newsweek's 2017-2018 Green Rankings.
• In 2018, for the eighth consecutive year, the National Business Group on Health honored  
UnitedHealth Group with a “Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles” to p-tier Pla tinum award.
• UnitedHealth Group was named a 2019 M ilitary Friendly Employer  by Viqtory, a veteran-owned  
business that connects the military community to civilian opportunity. www.unitedhealthgroup.com
UnitedHealth Group Center  
9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343
©2019 UnitedHealth Group. All Rights Reserved. UnitedHealth Group is a registered trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.Last update: January 2019
CG120002_0119