2021
ESG Action Report
People. Passion.  
Possibilities.®                 2021 ESG Action Report 3
A Message from Our 
Chairman and CEO
I am tremendously proud to introduce our 2021 Environment, Social & Governance 
(ESG) Action Report. This report reflects how we work with integrity and intention 
to advance patient health and a sustainable business that will deliver for our 
stakeholders for years to come. Powered by 50,000 employees around the globe, it is 
the responsibility and the privilege of everyone at AbbVie to support our communities, 
better our society and help the patients of today and tomorrow.
Since AbbVie was founded in 2013, we have worked to help patients suffering from a 
wide range of diseases and conditions. In 2020, our mission grew in scope and ability 
with the acquisition of Allergan and this past year was our first full year operating 
as a new combined company. Today, we are better positioned for continued growth 
with leadership positions across the key therapeutic areas of immunology, oncology, 
neuroscience and eye care, and aesthetics. 
We have a proven track record of developing new innovative medicines that have 
made a remarkable impact for patients and will continue to change lives for years 
to come. Since our inception, we have achieved more than 21 major product or 
indication approvals. Through our pipeline of promising therapies, we anticipate the 
potential approval of more than a dozen new products or major indications over the 
next two years. These important milestones have the potential to help millions of 
additional patients.  
In addition to our medicines, we continued to deliver on our commitment to 
society. Together with our nonprofit partners, we advanced health and educational 
opportunities for underserved communities through our philanthropic commitments 
and continued to address the impact of COVID-19 through humanitarian support 
and employee volunteering efforts. Through our patient assistance programs, we 
provided free medicines in the United States to more than 170,000 patients who 
were experiencing financial need. Reaffirming our commitment to environmental 
sustainability, we committed to join the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) to 
contribute to climate action by advancing our science-based emission targets.
In our 10th year as an independent company, I am grateful for our employees and our 
partners, and what we have done together to help patients and contribute to society 
over the past decade. I am confident in the future as we continue our mission to 
advance science and make a remarkable impact on people’s lives.  
Sincerely,
Richard A. Gonzalez 
Chairman and CEO 
Table of Contents 
Company Overview   6
• Our Business  7
• Our Approach to ESG  7
• Our ESG Framework   8
• Our Material Drivers   8
• Board and Executive Oversight of ESG 10
• Our ESG Council  11
Environmental  12
• Environmental Sustainability  13
Social 20
• Product Innovation 21
• Product Quality and Safety  24
• Patient Health and Engagement  25
• Patient Access and Affordability 30
• Human Capital Management  33
• Community & Partner Engagement and Impact  42
Governance  48
• Corporate Governance 48
• Business Ethics 50
• Supply Chain Sustainability  55
Looking Ahead  58
Indexes  60
• UN Sustainable Development Goals  60
• SASB Index: Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals  644 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 5
Disclaimer and Looking Forward Statements 
The information and opinions contained in 
this report are provided as of the date of this 
report and are subject to change without 
notice. AbbVie does not undertake to update 
or revise any such statements. Company 
goals are aspirational and not guarantees or 
promises that all goals will be met. Certain 
statistics and metrics relating to ESG 
matters are estimates and may be based 
on assumptions or developing standards. 
This report may contain or incorporate by 
reference public information not separately 
reviewed, approved, or endorsed by 
AbbVie and no representation, warranty, or 
undertaking is made by AbbVie as to the 
accuracy, reasonableness, or completeness 
of such information. Inclusion of information 
in this report is not an indication that 
the subject or information is material to 
AbbVie’s business or operating results. This 
report is not intended to create legal rights 
or obligations.
Some statements in this report are, or may 
be considered, forward-looking statements 
for purposes of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words 
"believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project" and 
similar expressions, among others, generally 
identify forward-looking statements. 
AbbVie cautions that these forward-
looking statements are subject to risks and 
uncertainties that may cause actual results 
to differ materially from those indicated in 
the forward-looking statements. Such risks 
and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, failure to realize the expected benefits 
from AbbVie's acquisition of Allergan 
plc ("Allergan"), failure to promptly and 
effectively integrate Allergan's businesses, 
competition from other products, challenges 
to intellectual property, difficulties inherent 
in the research and development process, 
adverse litigation or government action, 
changes to laws and regulations applicable 
to our industry and the impact of public 
health outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics, 
such as COVID-19. Additional information 
about the economic, competitive, 
governmental, technological and other 
factors that may affect AbbVie's operations 
is set forth in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," of 
AbbVie's 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-
K, which has been filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, as updated 
by its subsequent Quarterly Reports 
on Form 10-Q. AbbVie undertakes no 
obligation to release publicly any revisions 
to forward-looking statements as a result of 
subsequent events or developments, except 
as required by law.6 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 7
AbbVie’s mission is to discover and deliver innovative 
medicines and products that solve serious health issues 
and enhance people’s lives today and address the medical 
challenges of tomorrow. 
We strive to have a remarkable impact on people’s lives 
across several key therapeutic areas: immunology, oncology, 
neuroscience, eye care, and virology in addition to products 
and services across our aesthetics portfolio. Our state-of-
the-art research, development and manufacturing centers 
across the world allow us to move the best ideas forward 
faster and deliver transformative change. Our global 
headquarters is in North Chicago, IL, United States.
We pride ourselves on a long tradition of strong corporate 
governance and financial controls, led by our board of  directors. They play an active and vital role in overseeing our 
strategic direction and our performance against all objectives 
on behalf of our stakeholders. More details on our board 
and approach to Corporate Governance can be found in the 
Corporate Governance  section of this report and our 2022 
Proxy Statement. 
This past year was our first full year operating as a new 
combined company since our acquisition of Allergan plc 
(Allergan) on May 8, 2020.  As such, KPIs contained in this 
report are reflective of this combined organization unless 
otherwise noted. Previous year’s KPIs inclusive of only 
AbbVie data can be found in previous editions of AbbVie’s 
ESG Action Report. Our Business
 
Transforming lives
We inspire hope and transform 
lives every day. We make decisions 
based on our deep caring and 
compassion for people, delivering 
a lasting impact to our patients, 
their families, our employees and 
the community.   
Acting with integrity
We strive to always do the right 
thing. With uncompromising 
integrity at the heart of everything 
we do, we pursue the highest 
standards in quality, compliance, 
safety and performance. Driving innovation
We innovate relentlessly in 
everything we do to tackle unmet 
needs. We invest in the discovery 
and development of new medicines 
and healthcare approaches for a 
healthier world.
Embracing diversity  
and inclusion
We treat everyone equally, with 
dignity and respect. Around the 
world, our employees embrace 
diverse backgrounds and 
perspectives, which allows us all to 
achieve our best. 
Serving the community
We are proud to serve and support 
the community and do our part to 
protect the environment. We make 
a remarkable impact that's felt 
within healthcare and beyond.AbbVie is a research-driven biopharmaceutical 
company that takes on the toughest health 
challenges. But we do more than treat 
diseases—we embrace the responsibility 
of making a remarkable impact on people’s 
lives through the innovative medicines and 
solutions we create together. This is driven 
by our compassion for people, commitment 
to innovation and inclusion, service to the 
community and uncompromising integrity. 
At AbbVie, we care deeply for patients, 
customers and their caregivers, our employees 
and our communities. We strive to always do 
the right thing, pursuing the highest standards in quality, compliance, safety and performance. 
We invest and innovate relentlessly to tackle 
unmet needs, creating new medicines and 
healthcare solutions for a healthier world. 
Globally, our employees represent diverse 
backgrounds and perspectives, and our 
company values treating everyone with dignity 
and respect—which we believe allows us 
to achieve our best. We proudly do our part, 
serving and supporting our communities and 
protecting the environment so we can make a 
lasting impact on healthcare and beyond. 
As a research-driven global biopharmaceutical company, we 
apply the same high standards and rigor to the medicines 
and solutions we pursue, to how we operate our business. 
We recognize that our company and our industry hold a 
unique opportunity to make a real difference in people’s 
lives, but it's not just the breakthroughs we achieve that 
matter, it’s also the paths we take to achieve them. We are 
advancing ESG initiatives that contribute to the sustainable 
growth of our company so that we can create positive impact 
for generations to come. Our leaders are stewards of our 
ESG mission, and our people are committed to ensuring 
our research, innovations and collaborations put impact for 
people, communities and our world first. We evaluate our efforts relative to external frameworks such 
as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the Task Force 
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), the United 
Nations Sustainability Development Goals (UN SDGs) and the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). Our SASB 
Index performance is included as an appendix at the end of  
this report. 
Acting responsibly is ingrained in everything we do. It is how 
we drive a long-term, sustainable business that makes a 
genuine and lasting positive impact for patients, employees 
and communities. In 2021, we enhanced our ESG framework 
and governance while delivering sustainable solutions that 
improve the health of our business and society.Our Approach to ESGCompany Overview
Our Principles8 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 9
Our Materiality MapImportance to stakeholders
Impact to AbbVieCommunity & Partner  
Engagement and ImpactSupply Chain SustainabilityHuman Capital Management 
• Employee Recruiting, 
Development & Retention
• Equity, Equality, Diversity  
& InclusionProduct Innovation
Product Quality & Safety
Patient Health & Engagement
Patient Access & Patient AffordabilityBusiness Ethics
Environmental SustainabilityEnvironmental 
Social 
Governance Categories  VERY HIGH
HIGH
MODERATEOur ESG Framework is built around three foundational 
pillars that align with our enterprise goals and principles. 
These have been developed based on an analysis of our 
material issues, considering the topics of most interest and 
relevance to our company and our stakeholders—including 
our patients, patient organizations, employees, investors, 
regulators and government, payers and providers, suppliers 
and nonprofit partners. Collaboration with stakeholders is critical to our success. 
We strive to create value by building engaging, long-term 
relationships with each of our partners and stakeholders. 
Through these relationships, we engage in regular dialogue 
to understand evolving needs, interests and expectations 
of AbbVie. From these interactions, we develop our 
understanding of meaningful issues and identify additional 
opportunities to improve and make an impact. 
We discover and deliver 
innovative medicines that solve 
serious health issues  and enhance 
people’s lives by pushing the 
boundaries of innovation, putting 
people and patients first, creating 
high-quality therapeutic solutions 
and ensuring their safety, efficacy 
and accessibility. We unlock the full potential of 
diverse and talented teams—
and partners—to deliver today 
and into the future. We do this 
by attracting and retaining the 
best talent, embracing diversity of 
thought and through collaboration. 
We know that when we unlock the 
full potential of our people and our 
partners, we accelerate innovation, 
enhance people’s lives, and meet our 
business objectives.We innovate with integrity and 
intention to advance long-term 
patient health and business 
resiliency. We ensure that we are 
prepared for the future by operating a 
sustainable, agile business model and 
governance structure that anticipates 
and evolves in a dynamic industry 
and society. We are unwavering 
in assuring supply of innovative 
medicines to patients and life-
enhancing products to customers.
Product innovation  
We strive to make a remarkable 
impact on patients and drive 
sustainable growth by consistently 
discovering and delivering innovative 
medicines that address serious 
health issues and enhance  
people’s lives. 
Patient access and patient 
affordability  
We believe everyone who needs our 
medicines should be able to get them.Human capital management  
We believe purposeful work 
drives meaningful change. We 
nurture diverse talent to solve the 
most complex health challenges 
and create remarkable impact in 
people’s lives.
We also prioritize Environmental Sustainability within and beyond AbbVie to support our patients, people and the 
planet. We are focused on reducing our environmental footprint, growing sustainability through inspiring innovation 
and engaging our workforce to steward the same. Patient health and engagement  
We continuously strive to improve 
health outcomes for patients 
around the world.
Product quality and safety  
We are committed to delivering  
safe and effective, quality products 
and medicines through robust  
quality systems. 
Business ethics  
We act with integrity in everything 
we do.Our ESG PillarsOur ESG Framework
Our Material Drivers*
 *Our material drivers are based on a 2020 materiality assessment.The board of directors has oversight responsibility for the 
company and administers this responsibility both directly 
and with assistance from its committees. Our directors have 
backgrounds that, when combined, provide a portfolio of 
experience and knowledge that serve AbbVie’s governance 
and strategic needs. Director nominees are considered 
based on a range of criteria including broad-based business knowledge and relationships, prominence and excellent 
reputations in their primary fields of endeavor, as well as 
a global business perspective and commitment to good 
corporate citizenship. They demonstrate experience and 
ability that is relevant to the board’s oversight role with 
respect to AbbVie’s business and affairs.   Board and Executive Oversight of ESG 10 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 11
In 2021, we were honored to have received some of the most prestigious ratings and 
rankings in our industry. To date we have received more than 40 Top Employer Great Place 
to Work and Top Employer rankings globally.
In 2021, we enhanced our ESG oversight and governance 
with the establishment of an ESG Council. The ESG Council 
ensures strategic, enterprise-aligned delivery on AbbVie’s 
ESG Framework. Chaired by our Vice Chairman, External 
Affairs and Chief Legal Officer and composed of senior cross-
functional leaders, the ESG Council’s purpose is to champion 
business sustainability and mitigate business risks by 
monitoring, reviewing and recommending actions in support 
of our ESG framework and strategy. The ESG Council meets at minimum once per quarter and 
maintains sub-committees aligned to AbbVie’s material 
topics. In 2021, we established an ESG Team, which reports 
to the Vice President of Corporate Responsibility. The ESG 
Team focuses on supporting AbbVie’s ESG strategy and the 
ESG Council. With this governance in place, we are well-
positioned to recognize ESG opportunities and advance our 
ESG objectives.Our ESG Council DiversityInc. “Top 50 Companies for Diversity” – Top 15 
FORTUNE “100 Best Companies to Work For”  
– Included for four consecutive years
Great Place to Work “World’s Best Workplaces” 
– Included for five consecutive years
Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index 
– Scored 100% for six consecutive years
Seramount "100 Best Companies" Workplace & Diversity
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index
Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index
EcoVadis Corporate Social Responsibility Assessment 
Gold Medal
FTSE4Good Index
S&P 500 ESG Index
AbbVie ranked on the 2021 Purpose Power IndexEnvironment, Social and Governance
Civic 50
3BL Media "100 Best Corporate Citizens"
PEOPLE Companies That Care
Bioethics International Good Pharma Scorecard for clinical 
trial transparency – Tied for firstCitizenship
FORTUNE 100
FORTUNE World’s Most Admired CompaniesBusiness PerformanceExternal Recognitions
ESG Governance 
Board of Directors 
Chairman and CEO 
ESG TeamExecutive Sponsor & ESG Council Chair 
Vice Chairman, External Affairs and Chief Legal Officer
ESG Council 
VP, Corporate Governance 
Legal 
VP, Corporate Responsibility, 
Brand, & Communications 
VP, Tax & Treasury VP, Internal Audit 
VP, Talent 
VP, Chief Ethics & 
Compliance Officer 
VP, Central Services VP, Quality Assurance 
VP, Regulatory Affairs and 
R&D Quality Assurance  
SVP, R&D Chief Operating 
Officer VP, Corporate Strategy 
VP, Global Market Access & 
Pricing 
VP, Commercial Operations 
& Patient Services The board of directors, through its committees, prioritizes 
and reviews ESG topics, material drivers and enterprise 
risks and discusses them with our senior management on 
a regular basis. These committees include the Nomination 
& Governance, Public Policy, Audit, and Compensation 
committee. Each board member sits on one or more 
committees and brings their collective expertise to carry out 
board initiatives and oversight responsibilities.  Examples 
of this oversight involving ESG topics include: (1) reviewing 
results of the biennial all employee survey, (2) oversight of the 
company’s equity, equality, diversity and inclusion strategy, (3) 
oversight of employee health and safety data and priorities, 
and (4) reviewing the company’s commitments to pay equity, 
environmental sustainability efforts, ethics and compliance, 
risk management and other priorities. Further, our executive officers also prioritize ESG topics 
as a strategic focus and significant importance to the 
business. In 2021, our executive officers maintained a formal 
goal to protect AbbVie’s reputation across a range of ESG 
topics aligned to our long-term company strategy and ESG 
framework. The ESG goal was weighted 10% within the short-
term incentive program for each executive officer. As part of 
this ESG goal category, all senior leaders, including executive 
officers, commit to executing our Equity, Equality, Diversity 
and Inclusion (EEDI) strategy. AbbVie’s executive officers have 
specific areas of focus for driving the company’s framework, 
and together, the executives’ goals cover all of AbbVie’s ESG 
material drivers. These goals are quantitative (e.g., reducing 
carbon emissions using a specific target) and qualitative (e.g., 
maintaining status as a top employer) in nature. 12 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 13
Environmental
We recognize that a business built on sustainable practices will be a long-lasting business. 
Our strategy is focused on reducing our environmental footprint, growing sustainably 
through inspiring innovation, and engaging our workforce to steward the same. We have set 
ambitious, long-term targets that put this strategy into practice. Climate change has a direct impact on 
human health. As a company taking on the 
toughest health challenges, we must play 
our part in mitigating the impacts of  
climate change. 
In 2021, AbbVie surpassed its 2025 
emissions reduction target of 25%, four 
years ahead of schedule. We accomplished 
this by increasing our investment in 
renewable sources,  decreasing our 
Scope 2 emissions. Furthermore, AbbVie 
has implemented energy efficiency 
measures, which decreased both our 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. For 
example, we completed the replacement 
of our cogeneration system at our site in 
Barceloneta, Puerto Rico. We committed to joining the Science 
Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in 2021 and 
setting ambitious science-based emissions 
reduction targets to support limiting global 
temperature rise to no more than 1.5°C 
above pre-industrial levels, in line with the 
Paris Climate Agreement and the 2018 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 
Working with the SBTi allows us to access 
expert resources that support us on our 
journey to meaningfully reduce our climate 
impact and provide external assessment 
and validation of our approach and target. 
We intend to formally announce our SBTi-
approved science-based targets in 2022, 
using 2021 as our baseline year. Environmental Sustainability2021 Highlights
Surpassed  2025 
target of
reduction in carbon 
emissions since 
2015 baseline25% 
of waste diverted 
from landfill92% 
winning ideas from 
the SPARK Innovation 
Accelerator13 
of electricity 
purchased from 
renewable sources32% 2021 
Achieved2025 
Target2035 
Target
Reduce absolute carbon emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 – market-based)  
vs. 2015 baseline1 -26% -25% -50%
Increase percentage of electricity purchased from renewable sources 
(excluding leased commercial offices)+32% +50% +100%
Reduce absolute water withdrawal (including non-contact cooling water)  
vs. 2015 baseline1 +14% -20% -50%
Reduce absolute total hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated 
(excluding construction and demolition waste) vs. 2015 baseline1,2 -14% -20% -
Achieve and maintain combined recycling rate for hazardous and non-
hazardous waste (excluding construction and demolition waste)42% 50% -
Achieve zero waste to landfill (excluding leased offices) 92% - 100%14 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 15
We continuously evaluate the impact of climate change on our 
business, particularly in terms of potential supply disruption. 
To ensure continued access to medicines and to mitigate 
supply risks, we conduct climate risk assessments and 
implement adaptation projects. Climate risk is integrated into 
our enterprise risk management process. 
We partnered with S&P Global Trucost in 2020 to perform 
a climate risk assessment for physical risks. The analysis 
focused on extreme weather impacts today and other climate 
impacts out to 2050. The risk assessment encompassed 
100 global sites and locations including all manufacturing, 
R&D, warehouse locations, along with select global offices. 
It also included the top 35 locations of our critical suppliers, 
the top 20 locations for our third-party logistic warehouses 
and nine of our global third-party data centers. Details from 
this assessment were included in our 2021 CDP Climate 
submission. AbbVie also conducts general assessments on 
the physical impact of climate change, including our upstream 
and downstream operations and stakeholders.
In our continuous effort to adapt to climate risk, we updated 
the physical features of our Barceloneta, Puerto Rico site in 
preparation for stronger hurricanes in the future. Our roofs 
have been designed and reinforced to withstand a Category 
5 hurricane, and our cogeneration system has recently been 
replaced to ensure that we can self-generate power in the 
event that an engine is damaged.  
To further improve our resiliency, we are in the process of 
installing on-site emergency power generators at our sites 
in Branchburg, New Jersey, and Waco, Texas, and have 
commissioned and installed an on-site emergency generator 
at our new R&D site in South San Francisco, California, in 
preparation for future wildfire-related outages. AbbVie actively seeks to reduce the energy and water we 
consume and the waste we generate around the world. We 
monitor our operations to ensure that the manufacturing, 
use and disposal of our medicines do not adversely affect 
the environment or human health. We operate robust 
environmental and energy management systems that support 
the integrity of our environmental sustainability strategy. 
Our determined efforts to reduce carbon emissions are 
being achieved largely through investment in technology, 
infrastructure and processes that increase energy efficiency 
and use cleaner energy sources. We increased the amount of 
renewable electricity that we purchase to over 30% globally 
in 2021 and are on track to meet our 2025 target of increasing 
renewable energy sourcing to 50%. We continue to expand 
the use of electric and hybrid vehicles in our fleets, as well 
as explore other opportunities to reduce emissions. For 
example, of the new vehicles that were introduced in our UK 
fleet, 95% were electric or hybrid, and over 30% of all the 
new vehicles introduced in our Western Europe fleet were 
electric or hybrid. In 2021, we replaced all steam boilers at 
our manufacturing site in Campo Verde, Italy. The new boilers 
have increased efficiency to over 90% and are significantly 
more efficient than the previous units, which were at least 30 
years old. 
Fourteen of our manufacturing sites have achieved ISO 
14001 certification for environmental management systems 
and 12 have ISO 50001 certification for effective energy 
management systems. Our Westport, Ireland site is the 
newest site to receive the ISO 50001 certification. Our 
Branchburg, New Jersey; Waco, Texas; and Wyandotte, 
Michigan sites were awarded Energy Star Certification 
in 2021, and AbbVie was named the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency’s (EPA) ENERGY STAR Partner of the  
Year for our performance in 2021. 1  In 2021, AbbVie performed a recalculation exercise of the metrics for our Environmental Sustainability targets and our 2015 baseline. The numbers listed above include both AbbVie and 
Allergan data versus our targets. 
2  Includes waste disposed of in the following manner: beneficial use, recycled, composted, treated, incinerated with energy recovery and incinerated without energy recovery.AbbVie Environmental Targets Reducing Our Footprint
Energy and Carbon 
AbbVie is committed to understanding 
our climate risks, disclosing those 
risks and doing our part to mitigate the 
impacts of climate change by reducing 
our carbon footprint. In early 2022, 
we committed to publicly disclosing 
environmental information in the TCFD  
framework. Our TCFD report is available 
on our website . The SPARK Innovation Accelerator is 
an incubator for employee-driven ideas 
that accelerate our efforts to reduce 
energy consumption, water use and 
waste. In 2021, colleagues from 37 global 
sites submitted over 200 innovative 
ideas. Thirteen winning ideas will be 
implemented by November 2022. 
Two 2021 Winning Ideas: 
In North Chicago, a team of scientists 
built a dashboard to identify facilities that 
close fume hoods and those who leave 
them open—allowing energy to escape, 
like an open window. By making this data 
visible, the team is influencing positive 
change and as a result, AbbVie saved 
almost 15,000 kilowatt hours of energy 
globally in 2021. 
A team of colleagues in the United 
States collaborated to understand the 
quantity of printed sales materials not 
being used due to the pandemic and the 
impact of the shift to virtual engagement 
of healthcare professionals. Their work 
identified an opportunity to reduce 
printed sales material waste by 31 
metric tons each year. The team looks 
forward to executing on their plan in 
2022 and beyond.   Task Force 
on Climate-
Related Financial 
Disclosures 
(TCFD) Inspiring 
Innovation 
16 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 17
 2021
Change in absolute carbon emissions vs. 2015 baseline (Scope 1 and Scope 2, market based) 
[2025 target: -25%]1-26%  
Achieved Target
Percentage of electricity purchased from renewable sources (excluding leased facilities)  
[2025 target: 50%]32%
 2021
Absolute Scope 1 GHG Emissions (Metric Tons CO2e) 367,954
     Scope 1 Stationary Combustion GHG Emissions (MT) 259,456
     Scope 1 Mobile Combustion GHG Emissions (MT) 97,076
     Scope 1 Fugitive GHG Emissions (MT) 5,501
     Scope 1 Office Activities GHG Emissions (MT) 5,921
Absolute Scope 2 Location Based GHG Emissions (Metric Tons CO2e) 330,946
Absolute Scope 2 Market Based GHG Emissions (Metric Tons CO2e) 256,708
     Scope 2 Purchased Electricity GHG Emissions (MT) 204,918
     Scope 2 Purchased Steam GHG Emissions (MT) 25,649
     Scope 2 Purchased Chilled Water GHG Emissions (MT) 26,141
Scope 1 & 2 GHG Intensity (Metric Tons CO2e /$million revenue) 11.12
Scope 1 & 2 Absolute Non-Carbon Emissions (in Metric Tons) (CH4, N20, HFC and Other) 7,016
     CH4 (MT) 501
     N2O (MT) 1,014
     HFC (MT) 29
     Other (MT) 5,472
Absolute Energy Consumption (MWH)  2,654,868
     Natural Gas (MWH) 1,000,684
     LNG, LPG & Propane (MWH) 338,459
     #2 Fuel Oil (MWH) 51,985
     #6 Fuel Oil (MWH) 0
     Jet Kerosene (MWH) 22,698
     Motor Fuel Gasoline/Diesel (MWH) 354,507
     Purchased Electricity & Utilities (Steam & Chilled Water) (MWH) 886,5351  In 2021, AbbVie performed a recalculation exercise of the metrics for our Environmental Sustainability targets and our 2015 baseline. The numbers listed above include both AbbVie and 
Allergan data versus our targets. 
This table includes new KPIs added to 2021 ESG Action Report. 2021 was the first full year that Allergan data was integrated into AbbVie, and the data provided is reflective of such. Key Performance Indicators: Carbon Emissions and Renewable Energy
Key Performance Indicators: Carbon Emissions and Renewable Energy Absolute Values Integrating sustainability into AbbVie’s 
design, planning and development 
processes allows AbbVie to make 
progress toward our environmental 
targets, but also supports sustainable 
growth well into the future. In 2021, 
we released refreshed Global Facility 
Design Guidelines to our facility 
designers and engineers across the 
globe. These guidelines include over 
100 sustainable design concepts 
that can be incorporated in new 
construction, upgrades and retrofits.
Most of our design concepts were 
integrated into our new R&D facility 
located in South San Francisco, a 
certified LEED Platinum building. The 
building, opened in 2021, includes 
energy efficient lighting and lighting 
controls as well as a rainwater 
harvesting system. Designing for 
Sustainability 
Access to clean water is crucial for human health, and we 
are committed to using water responsibly and doing our part 
to protect this vital resource. We have set an ambitious goal 
to halve our absolute water withdrawal by 2035 compared 
to our 2015 baseline. To achieve this goal, we focus our 
efforts on reducing our total global water consumption and 
investing in innovative technologies that allow us to use 
water more efficiently. 
In Barceloneta, Puerto Rico, we have reduced water 
consumption at the site by over 250,000 cubic meters 
annually. Through a reverse osmosis system in our on-site 
wastewater treatment plant, treated wastewater is further 
purified via reverse osmosis and used for non-manufacturing 
purposes at the site.Water
18 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 19
A grant made by Allergan, an AbbVie 
company, brought environmental revitalization 
to Electronic City in Bangalore, India. Lake 
Bingipura, a 28.2-acre body of water, was 
previously treated as a municipal dump yard. 
The contamination and human encroachment 
resulted in reduced water capacity, blocked 
water channels, the death of flora and fauna 
and the spread of disease to the community. 
Employee volunteers revived the lake 
ecologically using time-tested and sustainable 
techniques, making use of an Allergan 
contribution.  
The rejuvenation has doubled the water 
capacity and brings safe drinking water to more 
than 5,000 people across four villages. The 
treated water that flows out supports up to 75 
acres of agricultural land. Native plant species 
have been planted and are already proving to 
support the return of birds and other local fauna. Environmental 
Revitalization
 2021
Change in absolute water withdrawal vs. 2015 baseline (includes non-contact cooling water)1,2,3+14%
Change in absolute water consumption vs. 2015 baseline (excludes non-contact cooling water)1,2,3-13% 
Absolute total water consumption (million cubic meters)35.22 2021
Reduce absolute total hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated (excluding construction and 
demolition waste) vs. 2015 baseline [2025 Target: -20%]1,2 -14%
Combined recycling rate for hazardous and non-hazardous waste (excluding construction  
and demolition)42% 
Percentage of global waste diverted from landfills (annually) (excluding construction and demolition) 92%
Absolute total hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated (excluding construction and 
demolition waste) (1,000 Metric Tons)3 36.9
1  In 2021, AbbVie performed a recalculation exercise of the metrics for our Environmental Sustainability targets and our 2015 baseline. The numbers listed above include both AbbVie and 
Allergan data versus our targets. Figures exclude two R&D facilities which were not included in the 2015 baseline.
2  Non-contact cooling water is returned to the source in the same amount and with the same quality as was withdrawn. The increase we’ve seen in our non-contact cooling water use is 
generally due to seasonal variations in source water temperature.
3  Represents new KPI added to 2021 ESG Action Report.1  In 2021, AbbVie performed a recalculation exercise of the metrics for our Environmental Sustainability targets and our 2015 baseline. The numbers listed above include both AbbVie and 
Allergan data versus our targets.
2  Includes waste disposed of in the following manner: beneficial use, recycled, composted, treated, incinerated with energy recovery and incinerated without energy recovery. 
3  Represents new KPI added to 2021 ESG Action Report.Key Performance Indicators: WaterKey Performance Indicators: WasteAs a pharmaceutical company, we recognize the importance 
of minimizing waste and using appropriate disposal 
methods for both hazardous and non-hazardous waste alike. 
Whenever possible, we avoid landfills and continuously 
evaluate opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle our waste 
materials. In 2016, we set a goal to send zero waste to landfill 
by 2035. 
To ensure proper management, we characterize our waste 
streams to determine waste classification and proper 
disposal methods and ensure our employees are fully 
aware of correct classification and procedures. Waste 
management training is provided to AbbVie employees and 
contract workers before they undertake any responsibility 
for hazardous waste management activities. We routinely 
audit the procedures and practices of third-party waste 
management providers to ensure our waste is responsibly 
managed and disposed. For example, our Sligo-Manorhamilton, Ireland site 
continues to make significant reductions in their generation 
of hazardous waste. They previously installed an on-
site wastewater treatment unit that has decreased their 
hazardous waste by over 60% in the past two years.  
Our Global Packaging Design for Recovery approach focuses 
on creating designs for our package material and finished 
package to facilitate diversion from the landfill.  This approach 
also accounts for how we ship our products by optimizing 
our transportation-related packaging and working with 
our suppliers to do the same. One example comes from 
a packaging format change for MAVYRET® (for 84 count 
monthly tablet packs), where we’ve seen a greenhouse 
gas equivalent reduction of 98% and a recycling potential 
increase of 64% compared to the previously used packaging. Waste
20 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 21
of management 
positions are held 
by women51%  
new product or indication 
approvals including 
indication expansions10
healthcare providers reached 
through independent 
education grants750 K+Since our launch in 2013, we have invested roughly $50 billion in research to discover, 
develop and deliver new medicines. We target diseases with significant unmet need where 
we can improve the standard of care with innovative new therapies. We are constantly 
working to create solutions that go beyond simply treating the illness. Our innovation strives 
to have a positive impact on patients’ lives, on society and on science itself. Product Innovation 
2021 Highlights
donated to disaster 
relief organizations$1. 2MU.S. patients provided 
medicine at no cost 
through our patient 
assistance programs170K+
raised during the employee 
giving campaign with AbbVie 
Foundation matching$23.7 MWe approach our science with an unrelenting spirit to deliver 
medicines that improve lives, inspiring hope and confidence 
for patients to live a brighter today and tomorrow. This 
requires both dedicated innovations to address unmet needs 
and extensive investment in research and development. To 
be successful, we must also understand what matters most 
to patients. We empathize with and work to understand the 
experiences of people living with diseases so that we can 
meet their specialized needs. We partner with patients, 
patient advocacy groups and healthcare providers to 
understand the individual experience, define meaningful 
outcomes and pioneer new methods to measure them in 
accurate and relevant ways. We continue to enhance our 
efforts to ensure we are innovating for all patients, regardless 
of their race or ethnicity. Innovation in science is at the heart 
of our commitment to patient health and well-being. 
Our responsibility starts with discovering and developing 
novel medicines and treatment approaches that make a 
real-world impact, and since 2013 we have achieved 21 major 
product or indication approvals. In 2021, the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration approved new products QULIPTA™ and 
VUITY™ and the European Commission approved a new 
indication for SKYRIZI®. 
We regularly work with strategic partners to amplify 
the impact of our scientific progress. Whether through 
collaborations with smaller biotech companies, teaming up 
with universities or joining forces with other pharmaceutical 
companies around the world, partnerships are a powerful 
path to scientific discovery and patient success. In 2021, 
AbbVie embarked on several new partnerships, including: 
an eye care collaboration with REGENXBIO, an oncology 
agreement with Caribou Biosciences on the development 
of new CAR-T cell therapies and an extension of our 
collaboration with the University of Chicago to support 
preclinical oncology research. Our collaboration with Calico, 
a division of Alphabet, now twice renewed, focuses on 
advancing research and development in age-related diseases 
including neurodegeneration and cancer.Innovating for Patients 
Designed to reduce pain and discomfort 
for those living with arthritis, limited 
mobility and chronic pain, AbbVie 
updated the packaging of RINVOQ™, a 
joint pain medication. The easy-to-open 
RINVOQ™ bottle design includes a cap 
with a wide, easy-to-grip texture and an 
embedded tool that punctures the foil 
liner, both of which simplify medication 
access. Our innovative design was 
awarded the Arthritis Foundation's Ease 
of Use Commendation. Innovating with 
Patient Experience 
in Mind Social22 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 23
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), together with widespread 
tropical diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis, impact 
over one billion people globally. These diseases, which 
disproportionately affect people in low- and middle-income 
countries, are detrimental to both public health globally and 
economic well-being locally. Combating NTDs requires input, 
commitment and collaboration between a wide range of 
dedicated partners. That’s why we were one of the original 
signatories to the London Declaration on Neglected Tropical 
Diseases, a collaborative global partnership that aims to 
eliminate or control 10 NTDs. 
Hundreds of AbbVie scientists have donated 180,000 pro 
bono hours over the past 10 years to help find solutions for 
these persistent global public health challenges. AbbVie’s 
Executive Council on Neglected Diseases coordinates our 
innovative technologies, diverse compounds for screening 
and scientific expertise. We collaborate with partners to 
conduct preclinical and early clinical development and 
testing, and clinical trials that can lead to new treatments 
in NTDs including in onchocerciasis, Chagas disease, and 
leishmaniasis. We also offer a 10-week summer  
internship program for chemistry students working on  
NTD-related research.  One of our most promising NTD programs is ABBV-4083, or 
flubentylosin, which is currently in Phase 2. The goal of the 
program is to treat parasitic disease onchocerciasis (river 
blindness), which impacts over 17 million people—99% 
of which are in Africa. In partnership with the Drugs for 
Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi), we were able to build 
two clinical sites in the rural areas of the Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC), enrolling roughly 80% of our Phase 2 trial. 
The over 400 scientists working pro-bono to develop this 
river blindness treatment reflects both scientific excellence 
and our commitment to society. A documentary on our work 
with the DNDi can be found on Vox.com.
In 2021, we celebrated the 10-year anniversary of the 
Tuberculosis Drug Accelerator (TBDA), an innovative 
partnership with other pharmaceutical companies, academics, 
and healthcare advocacy organizations. The partnership’s 
mission is to discover and develop drug candidates to support 
affordable, shorter and safer drug regimens that can achieve 
rapid, durable cures. AbbVie has been an active participant 
with the TBDA, providing crucial compounds from our 
library, expertise in medicinal and computational chemistry, 
pharmacokinetics, assay development and screening, drug 
safety and toxicology studies to the challenges of anti-TB 
drug discovery and development.   To effectively serve the populations living with the diseases 
that we study and for whom we create solutions, it is 
imperative to design inclusive clinical research programs with 
equitable access for patients and physicians. To do so, we 
have established a dedicated team that is fostering a data-
driven approach to ensure AbbVie-sponsored clinical trials 
are diverse, equitable and inclusive.
We hired AbbVie’s first Director of Clinical Trial Diversity & 
Inclusion in 2020 to lead this critical work. The responsibility 
of the role has since been expanded to foster an emphasis 
on patient centricity, ensuring even greater intentionality in 
the inclusion of patient insights into clinical trial planning. 
This team’s focus is to build foundational capabilities that 
will enable a sustainable and systematic approach to clinical 
trial diversity, patient centricity and the patient experience at 
every phase of our clinical development work.
We have a comprehensive strategy to support the 
improvement of representation in our clinical trials through 
inclusive clinical protocols that incorporate diversity into 
the clinical drug development process, to address unmet 
needs and strive toward the best possible outcomes. Some of the ways we are beginning to bridge gaps with diverse 
communities to advance clinical trial diversity include: 
• Selecting strategic site locations that ensure we connect 
to a community of potential participants 
• Empowering trial sites to meet the needs of diverse 
populations by bridging gaps between researchers, staff 
and patients and ensuring that sites are equipped to lead 
trials effectively 
• Opening a two-way dialogue with potential participants to 
listen and understand their perspectives, and to leverage 
these learnings to enhance our drug development process 
• Building relationships with community health advocates 
and leaders to reach more diverse patients
• Expanding our investigator pool by creating training for 
investigators and clinical research staff and developing a 
pathway for the next generation of AbbVie researchers 
• Establishing clear KPIs for collecting and interpreting data, 
so we can benchmark and track our progressClinical research is a key component of developing new 
medicines. Every year, tens of thousands of people worldwide 
participate in clinical trials of potential AbbVie medicines. 
We require all our clinical studies to be conducted in a 
manner consistent with the ethical principles outlined in the 
World Medical Association’s Declaration of Helsinki and 
to adhere to applicable standards set by the International 
Council for Harmonization of Technical Requirements 
for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH). This includes 
adherence to Good Clinical Practice, Good Laboratory 
Practice and Good Manufacturing Practice standards, all of 
which provide assurance that the rights, safety, well-being 
and ethical treatment of trial participants are protected. We share comprehensive information regarding our 
processes on our website  regardless of outcome, while 
protecting patient confidentiality and sharing the results 
of all clinical trials, with health authorities and on publicly 
available registries including, but not limited to, the European 
Medicines Agency (EMA), the Pharmaceuticals and Medical 
Devices Agency (PMDA) in Japan, the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA).  
Beyond safety, we aim to make our clinical trials as effective 
as possible. This includes new technologies to increase 
efficiency of process, broadening the diversity of study 
populations, accelerating recruitment, reducing cost and 
continually improving the patient experience. Through our 
clinical development process, we gather actionable insights 
that allows us to make patient-centric decisions. R&D for Neglected Tropical Diseases 
Diversity in Clinical Trials 
Clinical Trials 
 2021
Adjusted Investment in Research and Development1$6.5B 
New product or indication approvals including indication expansions 10
Number of programs granted a designation by at least one major regulatory authority to expedite 
development or review7
Percent of compounds in late-stage clinical development with novel mechanism of action280%
Number of FDA Breakthrough Therapy Designations32
Research hours donated to neglected tropical diseases, malaria and tuberculosis 14,307
1  Adjusted investment in Research and Development spend is a non-GAAP measure and excludes specified items of $0.4B compared to the as reported GAAP measure of $6.9B.
2  Indicates compounds considered "first-in-class" in the scientific community in phase III, phase II with registration potential, or in regulatory approval process. Not included are compounds 
considered “best-in-class”, new indications, new formulations, and new forms of delivery.
3  Represents new KPI added to 2021 ESG Action Report.Key Performance Indicators: Research & Development24 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 25
At AbbVie, our patients are at the center of everything we do. At the core of our patient-
centric philosophy is that all employees, both at AbbVie and those of our suppliers, aim to 
make a remarkable impact on patient lives by striving for excellence and getting it right the 
first time. Product Quality and Safety 
We have robust systems in place to ensure the medicines 
we manufacture are of high quality and available when 
patients need them. The AbbVie Quality Council oversees 
our quality strategy and direction across AbbVie. Our Quality 
Council is accountable directly to our CEO and is comprised 
of the heads of quality from R&D and Operations. Within 
these two functions, we have Quality Assurance Groups to 
ensure a culture of quality is fully embedded throughout all 
our activities.
The values below outline our shared commitment to 
upholding the highest standards of quality every day.
• We all own quality. Quality is everyone’s job; AbbVie’s 
mission is to deliver a consistent stream of innovative 
medicines and have a remarkable impact on people’s lives. 
We cannot do that without everyone prioritizing quality and 
compliance in all that we do.
• Everyone has an important voice to ask questions, 
express concerns and raise observations on any 
quality matter. In our culture of quality if you SEE 
something, SAY something, DO something. 
• Our employees make the difference in providing the 
highest quality products and outstanding service 
to our patients. If we focus on quality and flawless 
execution, compliance will follow. We empower all 
employees to be critical, constructive and uphold AbbVie 
to the highest standards of quality, every day.
• AbbVie is an industry leader in quality. Our pride in 
product quality and commitment to patient safety are a 
powerful combination that motivates employees to stay 
vigilant, speak up and be part of the solution.
The principles and structure of our integrated enterprise 
Quality Management System (QMS) are outlined in our 
Global Quality Manual, available to all our personnel. The 
QMS complies with all applicable global standards and 
regulations (GxP) including the International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO). To ensure quality and regulatory compliance, AbbVie 
manufacturing sites receive both internal and external 
inspections and audits from major regulatory health 
authorities such as the U.S. FDA, the European Medicines 
Agency and the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical 
Devices Agency. In 2021, these audits had no findings 
resulting in production stoppages. We take strong, proactive 
measures to assess and maintain the security of our supply 
chain, as described in the Supply Chain Sustainability 
section of this report. 
Our Pharmacovigilance and Patient Safety teams identify 
potential safety issues and mitigate their impact on patients 
with an overall goal to improve the patient experience 
throughout the product lifecycle. Over the course of 2021, at 
any given time, these teams were supporting approximately 
250 studies and approximately 150 marketed products  
and devices.
In 2021, these teams advanced research and forecasting 
pertaining to COVID-19, including the following projects:
• Completed a baseline manuscript for an observational 
cohort study of COVID-19 in Lake County, Illinois1
• Evaluated the risk of severe COVID-19 outcomes in 
patients with immunology conditions2
• Assessed patient characteristics and the risk of severe 
COVID-19 outcomes in cancer and Immune-mediated 
Inflammatory Disease patients
Our Pharmacovigilance and Patient Safety teams also 
take action to address any risks of our medicines being 
counterfeited or diverted. We regularly provide education 
and training to employees, healthcare providers and law 
enforcement officials in higher-risk geographies. Our 
education covers the social and health risks of counterfeited 
and diverted medicines as well as common illicit trade 
practices and security protocols.  
To learn more about our anti-counterfeiting measures please 
see the Governance section of this report.Upholding the Highest Quality Standards
1 (Ryan D. Kilapatrick, 2022)
2 (Y. Ye, X . Yue, W . Krueger, L . Wegrzyn, 2021) 2021
FDA Class I or FDA Class II Product Recalls 1Key Performance Indicator: Product Recalls 
This table includes a new KPI added to 2021 ESG Action Report.  The KPI includes both Class I and Class II recalls.  The identified 2021 recall involved a Class II voluntary recall. More 
information on this recall can be found on the FDA website . 26 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 27
Eliminating the hepatitis C virus (HCV) 
and relieving symptoms of other diseases 
will mean uniting all of us behind a 
collective effort to overcome the obstacles 
associated with the disease. The hundreds 
of HCV elimination projects that AbbVie 
supports are forging partnerships that help 
concentrate our efforts, share learnings and 
scale what works. These are just a few of our 
efforts to date:
Peer Motivation:  People who inject drugs 
(PWIDs) are the largest identifiable high-
risk population for HCV in Switzerland. 
Our project here seeks to establish testing 
at drug treatment centers and launch 
peer programs to motivate PWIDs to seek 
screenings and care. 
Hep C A-L-E-R-T:  A project in Romania is 
working to show that HCV elimination is possible through cost-effective, point-of-
care testing using a rapid finger stick test in 
regional hospitals. 
Road to the Cure: In Israel, an effort to map 
the most frequented locations of people 
who inject drugs is helping healthcare 
providers bring laboratory services and HCV 
treatment to places where these patients 
feel comfortable. 
Learning from Diabetes:  New research 
shows that Australia must increase testing 
and improve linkage to care to eliminate HCV 
by 2030. To help, one Australian project is 
replicating a successful model of diabetes 
screening and treatment at Blacktown 
Hospital in Western Sydney to improve HCV 
awareness among at risk groups including 
people who inject drugs. Battling Hepatitis C Around the World Our independent healthcare grants increase access to 
continuing education and improve HCV awareness among 
at-risk groups including people who inject drugs. We support 
independent scientific and medical education programs 
that offer unbiased continuing education for experienced 
healthcare providers and scientists on current, new and 
emerging science.  By deepening provider knowledge, 
patients are better served and more positive outcomes are 
achieved. Our grants also fund fellowships that increase 
capacity in under resourced fields and educate providers on 
medical advances and emerging therapies.
We prioritize grants to initiatives that focus on the reduction 
of healthcare disparities in underserved populations and 
those that advance inclusive patient care. Some of our 
funded initiatives have fostered telemedicine and telehealth, 
bridging geographic gaps. In 2021, we reached nearly 
700,000 patients and more than 750,000 healthcare providers 
through our independent healthcare grants. More information 
on areas we support through our independent healthcare 
grants and the most up-to-date grant application process can 
be found on our website . 
Our patient care and support helps patients reach their 
full treatment potential. We offer a wide range of country-
specific, disease-state patient programs that provide 
meaningful, informative and empowering support to 
patients who have been prescribed AbbVie medicines. 
We also verify insurance coverage, help patients access 
financial assistance, and in specific situations, may 
dispense medicines directly to patients. 
To learn more about the ways we make medicines more 
affordable to patients, please refer to the Patient Access 
and Affordability  section of this report.
The support we provide patients increases their ability 
to access and use our medicines in a way that ensures 
successful outcomes. For example, through our Nurse 
Ambassador program and through other support 
resources, we provide educational programs to patients 
that ensure they are empowered with the knowledge and 
resources to better understand their disease, treatment 
and the usage of their medicine.
To enhance the ways in which we support patients to 
use their prescribed medicines, we use learnings and 
tools from behavioral science such as teach-back, an 
established health literacy technique. Teach-back helps 
us to better understand how patients interpret the 
information we share with them, which in turn allows us 
to further adapt our communications for clarity. Independent Healthcare Grants 
Patient SupportAt AbbVie, patients are at the heart of what 
we do: discovering and delivering life-
changing medicines. We know that these 
transformative medicines only matter if 
they are safe, effective and accessible to 
everyone who needs them, when they need 
them. From drug discovery to development 
to working with partners to ensure our medicines are accessible and affordable, we 
offer a breadth of resources, so that people 
taking our medicines can feel empowered, 
informed and in control of their health. We 
amplify patients’ voices to ensure their 
concerns are heard and accounted for in 
our decision making worldwide.Patient Health and Engagement 
In 2021, AbbVie’s Immunology Complete 
Programs were recognized as one of 
the Most Valuable Patient Support or 
Access Programs as part of the WEGO 
Health Patient-Choice Awards. 
In a time when many patients have 
delayed treatments and visits to 
providers due to the pandemic, AbbVie’s 
Immunology Complete Programs have 
provided the resources and support 
patients need. In 2021 alone, the 
programs helped more than 200,000 
patients navigate their journeys 
living with several immune-mediated 
conditions like rheumatoid arthritis and 
psoriatic arthritis—more than double the 
number of patients who were enrolled 
in the program before the COVID-19 
pandemic. Created to provide support 
at no cost, patients were prescribed 
HUMIRA, RINVOQ, or SKYRIZI; the 
programs are based on experience and 
evidence and intended to help patients 
access and adhere to their medications.Rewarding 
Our Patient 
Support 28 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 29
The patient is—and will always be—at the heart of all the 
work we do. Without understanding the lived experience of 
people living with health conditions, including their wants, 
needs and goals, it is impossible to design, develop and 
deliver life-improving medicines for patients. 
We partner with patient advocacy groups and rely on the 
valuable insights they share on the patient and caregiver 
experience. We foster relationships with patient advocacy 
groups based on mutual trust, respect and shared goals, 
which reflect AbbVie’s transparent and ethical behavioral 
standards. Together, we have a shared aim to improve 
patients’ lives. 
Essential to early detection of diseases is awareness of and 
education on that disease. The patient advocacy community 
enables us to garner diverse perspectives and to build a 
greater understanding of the experiences of our patients and 
the unique challenges of the patient journey from diagnosis 
to treatment. This helps inform our decisions from drug 
development to packaging design and delivery. Through 
these partnerships, AbbVie also contributes to patient and 
caregiver education specific to disease states and shares 
information about quality-of-life improvements.  
Our approach to partnering with patient advocacy groups is 
rooted in the foundations of three critically important guiding 
principles:
1. Independence:  The independence of patient advocacy 
groups will not be compromised. We encourage PAGs to 
maintain relationships with a wide range of organizations 
and companies.
2. Transparency:  All support will be disclosed according to 
relevant laws, and patient advocacy groups will recognize 
company support through locally appropriate means. 
Both AbbVie and patient advocacy groups will have final 
approval on all public uses of their respective names, logos 
and identifying symbols.
3. Trust and Mutual Respect:  Through a mutual and open 
understanding of each other’s policies, objectives and 
working practices, we will demonstrate respect for our 
partners as we each work toward common objectives 
and outcomes. When providing information on marketed 
and investigational medicines, AbbVie will do so in 
compliance with applicable local laws, regulations, policies 
and procedures.Engagement with the Patient Community
 2021
Grants, donations and/or sponsorships to healthcare and patient organizations ($ million) $155.4Key Performance Indicator: Support for Healthcare and Patient Organizations
This table includes a new KPI added to the 2021 ESG Action Report. This KPI does not include AbbVie Foundation or Corporate philanthropic grants or donations. See the Community & 
Partner Engagement and Impact section for more details on AbbVie’s philanthropic efforts.
Patient Communication in Brazil
Our Meaningful Conversations 
(Conversas Importantes) project ensures 
oncology providers are better able to 
communicate with patients about their 
disease, their options and clinical trials. 
Disease Management and Education 
in Mexico
Our Siente tu Libertad digital platform 
provides patients suffering from 
psoriasis with educational tools and tips 
on disease management and connects 
patients with dermatologists specializing 
in the disease. Educating 
Providers and 
Patients Around 
the World30 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 31
AbbVie’s commitment to patients inspires 
a focus on innovation and a dedication 
to ensuring that patients who can benefit 
from AbbVie’s medicines have access to 
them. We commit to pursuing new ways 
to address patients’ most serious health 
issues, while expanding access and support 
for patients to improve lives today. 
Science and innovation are the lifeblood 
of our company. We dedicate ourselves 
to addressing the world’s pressing health 
challenges by combining our experience in 
pioneering scientific breakthroughs with a 
focus on pursuing the best ideas in science.
We also recognize that innovative 
treatments can only make a difference if 
patients can access the medicines that they 
and their providers choose. Innovation and 
access must work in tandem, which is why 
AbbVie commits to helping patients who 
need our medicines to get those medicines. 
We keep our commitment to making a 
remarkable impact on patients at the center 
of how we operate—including in how we 
approach the pricing of our medicines 
and the ways we work to increase access 
and support for patients throughout their 
treatment journey. To achieve this, we 
assist qualified patients in the United States 
by making their co-pay less burdensome 
and by providing free medicine. Across 
the world, we are at times able to provide 
patients with access to our medicines 
before they are formally approved for use 
by regulatory agencies on a compassionate 
use basis. We also donate medicines Patient Access and Affordability 
Within the United States, we provide co-pay assistance, 
regardless of income, to all patients with commercial 
insurance; most eligible patients pay $5-10 per month for 
their AbbVie medicines. More than 90% of commercial 
patients utilize our co-pay assistance program. We also make 
donations to independent charitable foundations that provide 
co-pay assistance to patients in need, regardless of what 
type of therapy they are on. 
Patients in the United States without insurance or those 
with limited coverage for our medicines in the United States 
may be eligible to receive AbbVie medicines at no cost to 
them through myAbbVie Assist. The program serves as an important safety net and helps 99% of uninsured patients 
who seek our assistance.  In 2021, AbbVie integrated 
products available under the Allergan Patient Assistance 
Program into myAbbVie Assist. The income eligibility 
requirement for myAbbVie Assist is 600% of the Federal 
Poverty Level (FPL), or an income of less than $159,000 for 
a household of four people. For patients who lost insurance 
coverage or for those facing financial hardship because of 
COVID-19, we continued to provide free AbbVie medicines 
for qualifying individuals in 2021. In 2021, myAbbVie Assist 
supported over 170,000 patients in the United States 
To facilitate access to AbbVie medicines globally, we 
contribute to the World Intellectual Property Organization’s 
Patent Information Initiative for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED) 
database. This database provides patent information on 
medicines for HIV/AIDS, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, 
hepatitis C, oncology, respiratory conditions and other 
products on the WHO Essential Medicines List so that 
procurement agencies may easily find patent holders and 
communicate directly with companies selling medicines  
they need.
We also have global medicine donation programs, in which 
we provide medicines for people who would have no 
other means of accessing them due to country-specific 
limitations and availability. We have seven ongoing medicine 
donation partnerships with international non-governmental 
organizations providing assistance in low- and middle-income 
countries. We support requests for medical donations for 
pediatric health, mental health and HIV/AIDS, as well as 
access to surgical care by donating our general anesthesia 
treatment for use in free surgeries. Furthermore, we donate 
medicines for use in disaster relief efforts and in response to 
humanitarian crises. Since 2013, we have donated medicines 
for use in over 100 countries. Patient Assistance
Global Access to Medicines 1  Allergan Patient Assistance Program was integrated into myAbbVie Assist in 2021. This number is inclusive of the integrated program. Key Performance Indicator: Expanding Access to Our Medicines 
 2021
U.S patients provided medicine at no cost through our patient assistance programs1170,162
At times, we can provide earlier access to treatment for 
people who are suffering from serious medical conditions 
and could potentially benefit from our medicines. Through 
our compassionate use programs, AbbVie provides access 
to investigational drugs prior to regulatory approval for 
patients who suffer from serious or life-threatening illness, 
as determined on a case-by-case basis and implemented 
through programs subject to established regulatory 
pathways. Our compassionate use programs span a variety 
of medicines across oncology, immunology, neuroscience 
and other therapeutic areas.
Additionally, we recognize that during launch of a new 
medicine, as payers evaluate the robust evidence generated 
by our clinical development programs, pending evaluation 
of potential value could delay or impact payer and health 
system reimbursement decisions. To balance early access 
for patients with maturity and certainty of the data, we work 
to pursue alternative access agreements to encourage 
earlier coverage and reimbursement of new treatments, 
where appropriate.to international non-governmental 
organizations that are supporting people as 
part of medical missions and disaster and 
humanitarian crises. 
To learn more about AbbVie’s approach to 
access to medicine, see Our Commitment 
to Access to Medicines on our website.
I can’t begin to thank you enough 
for helping me another year. 
My actual life depends on you. I 
can now live like everyone else. 
Physically I can now function 
and do things. Financially, I can 
afford to come out of the house 
for a small treat, now and then! 
Thank you."
– Patient using myAbbVie AssistRelieving the Burden One 
Patient at a Time 
“32 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 33
Our Health Economics and Outcomes Research (HEOR) 
team is a world-class leader in creating innovative, high-
impact evidence that optimizes appropriate patient access 
to AbbVie products. HEOR evidence helps payers, providers, 
policymakers and patients understand how medicines 
perform in the real world. Using real-world evidence helps 
us to understand disease burden, treatment patterns, 
patient experience and product performance in settings and 
populations that are representative of everyday  
clinical practice. Advancing Patient Care with Big Data 
At AbbVie, our culture is centered on the 
belief that how we work with each other 
and achieve results matters. This steadfast 
focus continues to position AbbVie as 
an employer of choice. In 2021, we were 
again listed as one of Fortune 100 Best 
Companies to Work For® and a Great Place 
to Work “World’s Best Workplaces”—both 
rankings determined by employees. 
AbbVie takes a holistic approach to the way 
we manage our human capital, focusing 
on Equity, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 
(EEDI), professional and leadership 
development and employee well-being.  
This approach was demonstrated in 2021 as 
we worked to ensure a unified culture and 
workforce after our Allergan acquisition.Human Capital Management 
Our HEOR researchers utilize big data to highlight patterns of 
care and generate evidence to support the real-world value 
of a new drug or technology. This big data falls into three 
broad buckets: 
1. Clinical data, which helps evaluate a medicine’s safety and 
effectiveness 
2. Economic and resource utilization (including inpatient 
admissions, emergency room visits, outpatient visits and 
other medical services) data, which is used to evaluate its 
economic value 
3. Patient experience data, which typically focuses on signs, 
symptoms and impacts that are important to patients  
Large and diverse data allows us to better understand the 
experience of patients often excluded from clinical trials, as 
well as evaluate treatment comparisons that may not have 
been made in a randomized controlled trial. In addition, this 
data helps us understand healthcare resource utilization 
and potential cost offsets associated with therapies or 
interventions used in the real world. When real-world data is 
put into context and complements data from clinical trials, 
a more comprehensive assessment and understanding of a 
treatment or disease, healthcare delivery and, ultimately, a 
person’s experience of treatment is captured, all of which is 
used to advance patient care and access to treatment. 1. Our Principles, which represent 
who we are and what we stand 
for: transforming lives, acting with 
integrity, driving innovation, embracing 
diversity and inclusion and serving the 
community.
2. The Ways We Work, a core set 
of behaviors that provide clear 
expectations for all employees, 
reinforcing that how we achieve 
results matters. Integrated into the 
entire talent journey, these behaviors 
form the basis for assessing 
performance, prioritizing development, 
and ultimately, rewarding employees.
3. Our Talent Philosophy, which guides 
how we lead and develop talent at 
AbbVie.Our workplace 
culture is built 
upon three 
fundamental 
guideposts: 34 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 35
Our five-year EEDI strategy, launched in 2019, focuses 
on several cornerstones of success: drive awareness & 
understanding; attract and source talent; develop and 
engage talent; and create connections and community. We 
do this for our people, our patients and our business. 
Each of these strategic areas has specific objectives and 
associated initiatives and include implementation plans 
organized by business function and geography. The strategy 
and its implementation are driven and overseen by our 
CEO, Chief Equity Officer and the Executive Leadership 
team who set formal goals and are held accountable for our 
performance in this area. Additionally, all AbbVie executives 
have equity, equality, diversity and inclusion related goals.  
See the Board and Executive Oversight of ESG section of 
this report to learn more about our executives’ ESG goals. We are committed to consistently raising the bar when it 
comes to cultivating a diverse and inclusive workplace. Our 
CEO, Richard Gonzalez, signed the CEO Action pledge to 
signal our commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion 
in our workplace, and we have joined Paradigm for Parity®, 
which focuses on ensuring gender parity at the senior 
leadership level. 
In recent years, AbbVie’s executive leadership has led our 
response to the United States racial justice movement and 
has overseen internal programs designed to ensure that 
AbbVie is attracting, retaining and developing diverse talent.Cultivating a Diverse and Inclusive Workforce 
Equity, Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Strategic Priorities
Awareness & 
Learning
Removing Barriers  
& Obstacles
Creating 
Differentiation 
Measuring & 
SustainingDrive Awareness 
& Understanding
Instilling an 
inclusive mindset 
in all leaders and 
employeesAttract & Source 
Talent
Proactively finding 
and engaging top 
talentDevelop & 
Engage Talent
Creating 
opportunities for 
talent to thriveCreate 
Connections & 
Community
Bringing people 
together to 
promote inclusion
Annual Enterprise Initiatives
Functional/Local Implementation PlansEquity
Focusing on a culture of equity and inclusion through education,  
removing barriers, creating differentiation and measurement.  
Equity is embedded in everything we do.AbbVie affiliates around the world are 
implementing programs that resonate with 
their unique cultures and employee needs. 
In New Zealand, AbbVie made the 
decision to engage, understand and draw 
on Māori cultural perspectives within the 
organization. The Māori, the indigenous 
Polynesian people of New Zealand, hold 
seats in Parliament and their language is 
an official language of the country.  
AbbVie New Zealand’s EEDI Committee 
and other leaders have actively elevated 
Māori inclusion by sponsoring language 
lessons and organizing visits to culturally 
significant venues. We hosted a Māori 
Language Week, with live online quizzes, 
group singing, podcasts, playlists, Māori 
mindfulness exercises and our largest 
ever language lesson. Meanwhile, 
innovative reimbursement proposals 
that prioritize Māori health needs 
have been initiated, along with insight-
gathering Māori patient interviews across 
therapeutic areas. Global EEDI 
Efforts: A 
Look at New 
Zealand An important part of our EEDI strategy is to instill an inclusive 
mindset in all leaders and employees so that we realize the 
full value of our diverse workforce. In 2021, we enhanced the 
EEDI content on our internal portal and launched new virtual 
inclusive learning programs, building out our EEDI curriculum 
and continuing to enhance our extensive library and toolkit. 
We also supported company-wide programming developed 
by our Employee Resource Groups to foster more awareness 
and understanding of diverse communities and perspectives.
In 2021, we expanded our global listening sessions, giving 
employees an opportunity to share their experiences, ideas 
and thoughts on race, bias and inclusion. Several sessions 
allowed employees to develop a deeper understanding of 
current events impacting many of our employees. At the same 
time, listening sessions gave the leadership and engagement 
teams a pulse on how our employees were thinking about 
those events and how we could best support them. 
Our Black Business Network (BBN) Employee Resource Group 
led meaningful educational opportunities to bring greater 
awareness of EEDI to the AbbVie community and established 
differentiated programming for greater impact. We also hosted 
notable external speakers to provide additional awareness 
and learning opportunities for all employees.
AbbVie attracts, engages and hires diverse talent as 
part of its comprehensive talent strategy. Our proactive 
approach governs AbbVie’s strategy and is applied across 
all stages of the recruitment pipeline, from early career to 
executive leadership. Leveraging strategic partnerships with 
organizations and educational institutions, AbbVie continues 
to build a robust pool of diverse talent today and for years 
to come. With an emphasis on our early career pipeline, 
a dedicated team of AbbVie relationship managers and 
recruiters have developed direct school partnerships with 
nine Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) 
and Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs). Driving Awareness and Understanding 
Attracting and Sourcing Diverse Talent36 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 37
At AbbVie, we strive to ensure every employee is aware of, 
and has access to, opportunities for learning, growth  
and advancement.
Our thriving Executive Diversity Mentoring Program (EDMP) 
pairs high performing, diverse talent with AbbVie senior 
executive leaders for a one-on-one mentoring partnership 
over ten months. Mentees gain insight into executive-level 
thinking and engage in direct dialogue with successful 
AbbVie leaders. EDMP accelerates the professional growth of 
our diverse workforce. In the last year we have seen program 
participation increase 300%. 
We also launched our Executive Sponsorship Program in 
2021. This program builds upon our culture of mentorship, 
with an emphasis on equity, creating more pathways for talent 
of diverse backgrounds and experiences to be successful 
at AbbVie. Like mentorship, our sponsorship program 
format is also based on a one-on-one partnership; however, 
sponsorship is driven by the leader. We also provide expert 
coaching and guidance – particularly for sponsors throughout 
their journey. This program is a two-year commitment.Our seven Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are open to all 
employees, whether they identify as part of the represented 
group or as an ally. These groups promote awareness of 
and appreciation for our diversity and create connections 
and opportunities for mentoring, professional development, 
talent attraction and networking. Every year, the AbbVie 
Foundation provides each resource group with a $100,000 
grant to distribute to nonprofit partners of their choice that 
align with their respective missions. 
As of 2021, our ERGs included: 
• AbbVie Pride 
• AbbVie Veterans 
• Ability at AbbVie 
• AHORA Hispanic/Latino 
• Asian Leadership Network 
• Black Business Network 
• Women Leaders in Action
Learn more about our Employee Resource Groups at  
our website . Developing and Engaging Diverse Talent Creating Connections and Community 
We continue to be recognized for our 
workplace and diversity efforts across 
the globe, which supports us in attracting 
and retaining top talent. As a company, 
we are recognized in more than 40 
locations as a great place to work and 
top employer. 
The recognitions we are most proud of in 
2021 include:  
• DiversityInc “Top 50 Companies for 
Diversity” – Top 15 
• Seramount “100 Best Companies"   
• Human Rights Campaign Corporate 
Equality Index – Scored 100%   
• Disability:IN Disability Equality Index – 
Scored 100% 
• Recognized on the FORTUNE 100 Best 
Companies to Work For® list for the 
fourth year in a row, moving up 29 spots 
• Recognized on the Great Place to 
Work® “World’s Best Workplaces™” list 
for the fifth year in a row, moving up 1 1 
spots to number 4 External 
RecognitionI’ve really enjoyed being a part of Black 
Business Network (BBN) West. Everyone 
has been so warm and welcoming. As a 
legacy Allergan employee, it has been a 
great opportunity to network and get to 
know colleagues in other business units 
that I would not interact with during the 
normal course of business. BBN West, 
and ERGs in general, have the unique 
ability to expand your global view and 
give visibility to the greater organization, 
all while fostering a sense of community, 
connectivity and belonging." 
– Sharon Gomez, Senior District Manager
 2021
Total employees 50,000
% women globally 55%
% women in executive and board positions136%
% women in VP and above positions236% 
% women in Director and Manager positions 51% 
% women in management positions351%
% women in management positions in revenue-generating functions454% 
% women in STEM-related positions 59%
% U.S. employees who are members of underrepresented populations 35% 
% U.S. employees who are veterans 3% 
% U.S. employees who have disabilities 5% 
1 Represents new KPI added to 2021 ESG Action Report. Includes VP-level and above, including women who are members of AbbVie’s Board of Directors.
2 Does not include women who are members of AbbVie’s Board of Directors. 
3 Includes women in manager-level positions and above.
4 "Revenue-generating functions” means a position within AbbVie’s commercial organization.Key Performance Indicators: EEDI “38 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 39
 Share in total 
workforce (as % of 
total workforce)Share in all management 
positions (manager level 
and above as % of total 
management workforce)
Asian 17% 21%
Black or African American 6% 5%
Hispanic/Latinx 9% 6%
White 65% 66%
Other (includes Native American/Alaska Native, Native 
Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and two or more races)3% 2%
AbbVie publishes our EEO-1 U.S. workforce diversity data on our website . U.S. Workforce by Race and Ethnicity 
At AbbVie, we believe in self-directed growth and 
development, where employees set the objectives that 
they want to achieve. We supplement this individualized 
approach with company-wide education and an investment in emerging leaders.  We also conduct annual Talent 
Management Reviews, driven from the organizational 
perspective and led by our leaders across all functions.
Our leaders play an essential role in bringing out the best in 
their teams. We offer live and virtual training resources on 
topics like inclusive leadership and defining expectations 
through our Leadership Essentials workshops. This includes 
Leadership Expectations, which focuses on equipping 
new people leaders by defining our leadership practices 
and expectations; Leading Performance, which focuses on 
how leaders raise the bar on their own performance and 
that of their team; and Leading Teams, which helps leaders develop their strategy for inclusive leadership and keeping 
teams motivated. For our identified “key talent,” which is 
determined based on performance and leadership potential, 
we have developed the AbbVie Executive Development 
Program (EDP). This program includes a suite of live and 
virtual training resources that are focused entirely on 
leadership development. In 2021, nearly 800 employees 
participated in the EDP. All employees use our Raise the Bar performance 
management process to establish expectations, tie goals 
to annual performance and ensure we are exemplifying 
the Ways We Work—behaviors expected of all employees 
regardless of level, role and geographic location. Our two-
way dialogue feedback check-ins, called “Time to Talk,” 
support performance, motivate development and build 
trust. The resulting ratings guide merit-based pay increases, 
and for those eligible, annual bonus payouts and long-term 
incentive stock grants.  At AbbVie, we engage our employees on the topics that 
matter most to us and to reinforce the culture that we have 
developed together. From volunteerism and employee 
wellness events to talent development and Employee 
Resource Groups, our employee engagement activities help 
to support our culture and drive employee retention. 
Our focus on amplifying our culture has generated positive 
results on performance, our reputation and the engagement 
of our leaders and employees. The results of our 2021 
employee survey showed that our workforce is highly 
engaged and increasingly satisfied with our culture. Our 
workforce also indicated that their managers are effective 
in leading their teams, which reinforces the important 
role leaders play in employee satisfaction and the strong 
talent development infrastructure AbbVie has in place to 
help leaders expand their people leadership skills. We not 
only share enterprise employee survey results with our 
employees and board of directors, but also hold leaders 
accountable for sharing and actioning their own team’s 
results among their employees.
In 2021, in our first year as a fully integrated company, our 
internal employee survey found that 82% of our employees 
are engaged at work; they have pride, energy, optimism and 
a commitment to AbbVie.
Our award-winning, global ‘Learn. Develop. Perform.’ (LDP) 
program offers webinars, online tools and mobile resources 
to all employees and puts skill and capability development on 
topics like resilience, decision making, empathy, innovation, 
inclusivity and influence at their fingertips. These resources 
are refined each year in response to employee evaluations 
and other strategic priorities and are now available in six 
languages. As we integrated Allergan into AbbVie in 2021, we 
increased participation across our programs by 25%.
We encourage each employee to define an annual 
learning and development objective for themselves and prioritize development opportunities to meet that objective. 
Understanding our employees’ interests and goals allows us 
to offer highly relevant opportunities that contribute to their 
success and give them the resources they need to grow their 
careers and contribute to their fullest potential. 
All employees also have access to a suite of career 
development resources that enable self-guided planning 
to define career interests, investigate job openings and 
identify opportunities for improvement. We also make training 
resources available to help employees evolve their “Ways We 
Work” behaviors. Developing Our People 
Leadership Development Performance Management Engaging Our Employees 
Learning40 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 41
 2021
Overall turnover rate 11% 
Voluntary turnover rate 8% 
Number of new hires 8,000
Percentage of open positions filled by internal candidates 30%
Employee engagement rate182% 
Percent of employees who indicate that AbbVie equips them well to perform in their role176%
 2021
Recordable incident rate (per 200,000 hours worked)10.16
Lost time injuries frequency rate (per 200,000 hours worked)10.04
Number of work-related employee and contractor fatalities201  Source: Employee Survey, 2021.
1  Legacy Allergan data is excluded from this KPI. 
2  Represents new KPI added to 2021 ESG Action Report. Contractors only include those individuals who are contingent/temporary workers under AbbVie’s direct supervision.Key Performance Indicators: Talent Attraction, Retention and Development 
Key Performance Indicators: Workplace SafetyEnsuring the safety of our employees across our workplace 
is a cornerstone commitment to our employee community 
and human rights more broadly. Our guiding philosophy is 
called “Zero. Believe It. Achieve It.” which reflects the core 
belief that every environmental, health and safety incident 
is preventable as we all adopt a preventative mindset. We 
provide comprehensive safety training for all employees, as 
it pertains to their workplace environment. Additionally, 13 
of our manufacturing sites are certified to the international 
standards for safety associated with ISO 45001. 
Since our launch as an independent company, we have been 
a Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) leader in occupational health and safety across the biotechnology industry, 
reflecting our commitment to continuously improving our 
best-in-class safety programs. In 2021, we continued to 
demonstrate our commitment to our employee’s safety by 
expanding on “Zero. Believe It. Achieve It.” and rolling out 
our “Think 5/Take 5” safety culture initiative. This initiative 
has been designed to empower employees across AbbVie’s 
manufacturing sites to take ownership of safety and promote 
the safest workplace possible.  
Please see the Business Ethics  section to find information 
on our human rights practices.At AbbVie, we are driven by the holistic well-being of our 
employees worldwide, offering them support through 
multiple programs, tools and resources. 
Our AbbVie Employee Assistance Program (EAP) steps 
in for employees when they need it most, aiding personal 
concerns and providing free, short-term counseling and 
referral services. As of April 2022, all employees globally, 
as well as their household members, have access to the 
EAP . Additionally, AbbVie Vitality—our approach to well-
being—provides resources that support the physical, mental, 
emotional, financial, workplace, and personal needs of 
our employees. Vitality offers access to fitness and health 
classes, financial planning, and mental health and caregiver 
support resources. These programs ensure our employees 
can be their best selves—in and outside the workplace. 
We also support employees through the AbbVie 
Foundation's Employee Assistance Program, which includes 
the Possibilities Scholarship Program and the Employee 
Relief Program. Employee assistance is offered at two pivotal 
moments—when a child goes to college and if a disaster or 
personal hardship strikes. In 2021, 261 scholarships were 
awarded to students in 20 countries as part of the AbbVie 
Possibilities Scholarship Program, and $1,455,784 was 
provided in financial assistance to employees in 17  
countries and 26 states in the United States as part of the 
Employee Relief Program.
We support work-life well-being and flexibility to help our 
employees sustain high performance, productivity and 
engagement. We provide managers and their teams with 
tools, tips and guidelines on effectively managing team 
and individual flexibility in where and when people work. 
Employees continue to indicate in the Employee Survey that 
their managers grant them enough flexibility to meet their 
personal/family responsibilities. 
During 2020 and 2021, AbbVie provided numerous resources 
that supported employees’ ability to work effectively during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, while managing their own well-
being and caring for their families. These resources continue 
to remain in place and include caring for physical, emotional 
and financial health, collaborating with coworkers virtually, 
supporting managers to effectively lead and collaborate with 
their teams, virtual development opportunities and caregiver 
support services for working parents. Protecting Our Workforce Enhancing Employee Well-Being 
Work-Life and Well-Being The first step to erasing the stigma of 
mental illness is awareness. During 
National Mental Health Awareness 
month in May 2021, AbbVie continued 
to deliver on our promise to support the 
work-life well-being of every employee. 
We first ensured team members knew 
about the month’s significance by 
launching a comprehensive employee 
communications campaign, which 
included infographics showing the 
prevalence of mental illness around the 
world; mental health resources, including 
self-assessments and articles on how to 
talk about mental health; and live and on-
demand virtual learning opportunities. 
By encouraging employees to use the 
many resources AbbVie Vitality offers, 
we not only support our employees’ well-
being, but contribute to increasing visibility 
about mental health on a larger scale. Erasing the 
stigma of 
mental illness 
and supporting 
employee  
well-beingOur nonprofit partners are advancing health equity for 
communities and patients around the world through 
community programs that drive systems change. 
United Negro College Fund, Inc. 
With AbbVie support, the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) 
launched the Healthcare Workforce Diversity Program, 
focused on preparing and motivating Black professionals to 
pursue a wide variety of careers in healthcare and ultimately 
reduce health disparities. In 2021, the program awarded 200 
scholarships and provided wraparound support services to 
students. In addition, UNCF established partnerships with 118 
new institutions of higher learning, enabling the organization 
to reach more students and ensure they make it to and 
through college.
University of Chicago Urban Health Initiative
The Urban Health Initiative (UHI) is striving to promote health 
equity within Chicago’s South Side community. With AbbVie 
support, UHI launched the Liaisons in Care (LinC) program, 
which leverages the support of community health workers to 
advance access to care. The team of newly hired community 
health workers (CHWs) have engaged in over 1,100 patient 
visits, providing education around disease management and 
helping patients navigate food, transportation and housing.  
Baylor College of Medicine International Pediatric AIDS 
Initiative 
AbbVie Foundation supports the Baylor College of Medicine 
International Pediatric AIDS Initiative (BIPAI), which provides 
comprehensive HIV care, treatment, prevention, testing and 
psychosocial support for over 25,000 children and adults in 
Romania and Malawi. Over the course of the partnership, 
BIPAI’s programs have contributed to Romania and Malawi 
advancing towards 95-95-95 targets set by UNAIDS to end the 
AIDS epidemic by 2030. The COVID-19 pandemic presented Strengthening Healthcare Systems 
challenges to health services and staffing, however, BIPAI 
adapted their treatment approach, resulting in innovations 
that helped to maintain excellence in healthcare delivery. 
Adherence and mortality rates have nearly returned to pre-
pandemic levels and differentiated service delivery models 
adopted during the pandemic continue to be implemented. 
AMPATH (Academic Model Providing Access to  
Healthcare) 
With support from AbbVie Foundation, AMPATH seeks to 
improve the health of hard-to-reach populations in western 
Kenya through an integrated care model that improves access 
to high quality care, addresses social determinants of health 
and leverages Kenya’s goal to create a universal health 
coverage system. In 2021, AMPATH supported approximately 
70,000 participants in a program to help families in need of 
healthcare gain the financial capacity to access services.  
Partners In Health (PIH) 
Partners in Health’s innovative community health programs 
are strengthening the capacity of healthcare providers and 
improving access to and quality of care for nearly 85,000 
people in Chiapas, Mexico. In 2021, AbbVie Foundation’s 
support enabled PIH to serve an estimated 1,100 patients 
with chronic diseases and provided training and support to 
90 community health workers and 25 health professionals. 
PIH expanded a household screening visit program, where 
community health workers visit homes to provide preventative 
care and services to high-risk patients. In 2021, PIH began 
to pilot a program that trains and empowers nurses and 
community health workers to take on more responsibilities 
to improve the health of patients with chronic diseases. By 
strengthening the healthcare system, PIH—together with 
the AbbVie Foundation—is providing much needed care for 
patients and increasing access to primary healthcare in  
the region. 42 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 43
AbbVie is committed to providing a comprehensive total 
rewards package that is competitive in attracting, retaining 
and engaging the talent we need to drive our business growth. 
We offer employees a combination of robust and meaningful 
benefits, compensation and well-being programs—including 
healthcare and retirement benefits, life and disability 
insurance, sick pay, medical leave and programs that support 
families. Our well-rounded compensation programs include 
short-and long-term incentives designed to ensure we are 
competitive with our peers. 
Our industry-leading United States parental leave policies 
provide up to 12 weeks paid leave, which can be used 
incrementally and in phases. In 2021, 27% of employees 
who took parental leave used the phase back option. An 
additional two weeks of paid leave is provided to parents 
that adopt or build their families through surrogacy. AbbVie 
provides additional support for new parents by including 
breastfeeding/lactation benefits such as lactation rooms 
in most of its global office locations, as well as educational 
materials and discounts on breast pumps for all employees 
through AbbVie’s Mothers at Work program. AbbVie also 
provides on-site daycare centers at several locations. Benefits 
AbbVie is committed to 
pay equity. We conduct 
annual pay-equity analyses 
to ensure pay is equitable 
across genders and 
ethnicities among United 
States employees. Giving back is an integral part of who we 
are. Our giving culture is reflected in our 
philanthropy and the ways our employees 
support communities through philanthropic 
grants, donations, and volunteering all over 
the world. 
AbbVie and AbbVie Foundation’s 
philanthropic giving focuses on three 
main areas: strengthening healthcare 
systems, supporting effective educational programs and building strong communities. 
In 2021, AbbVie expanded our COVID-19 
philanthropic support by enhancing 
access to vaccinations through employee 
volunteering and community engagement. 
We continued to advance our $50 million 
multi-year commitment to six racial equity 
partners and our $350 million commitment 
to nine partner organizations across the 
United States and Puerto Rico. Community & Partner Engagement and Impact44 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 45
Our philanthropic investments advance equity in education 
by supporting nonprofits that address systemic barriers 
to advancement and empower marginalized students and 
young adults. These partners provide counseling and tutoring 
services, work to improve graduation rates and reduce 
dropout rates, strengthen college and career readiness for 
children K-12 and provide skills-based training.
Rebuilding North Chicago's Only Middle School
One of our most impactful and meaningful contributions 
to education is our $40 million donation to support the 
construction of a new Neal Math & Science Academy, North 
Chicago’s only middle school. In 2021, construction began and 
the first students at the “New Neal” will enter its doors in the 
Fall of 2022. This new school, co-imagined and designed in 
partnership with the North Chicago community, will provide a 
modernized learning environment to improve student success, 
graduation rates and college and career readiness.Communities in Schools
Communities in Schools (CIS) offers essential support 
services to provide low-income students an equitable 
opportunity to excel in the classroom and beyond. With 
AbbVie’s support, in the 2020-2021 school year CIS served 
over 74,000 students in 154 schools, including children in 16 
Chicago public schools. 
Year Up
Year Up empowers young adults to achieve economic 
mobility by providing access to opportunity. Through 
Year Up's proven model, young adults gain technical and 
professional skills and real-world work experience. In 2021, 
with AbbVie’s support, Year Up's locations in Boston, the Bay 
Area, Chicago and New York-New Jersey served more than 
3,000 young adults. 
City Year
City Year aims to increase math and literacy support in low-
income schools and among at-risk students. In the 2020-2021 
school year, AbbVie’s support enabled City Year to reach over 
225,000 students across over 320 schools, including 17,000 
students in Chicago and 7,000 in San Jose. Effective Educational Programs 
The New Neal will help turn 
my dreams into reality."
–   Neal Math and Science Academy student at the 2021 
groundbreaking ceremony“Spotlight on Direct Relief’s Fund for Health EquityOur Racial Equity Commitment 
In 2020, AbbVie launched a $50 million, 
five-year commitment to six nonprofit 
partners advancing health and education 
equity in Black and historically marginalized 
communities. In the year since we made 
this important philanthropic commitment, our partners have set the foundation 
for their programs and are accelerating 
measurable progress on health, education 
and workforce disparities. 
Learn more about our first year’s impact on 
our website .
The AbbVie Foundation seeded Direct 
Relief’s Fund for Health Equity with a $10 
million commitment. The initiative centers 
on improving care and addressing health 
inequities in Black and marginalized 
communities. The Fund is led by a team 
of advisors including co-chair Dr. Regina 
Benjamin, the 18th U.S. Surgeon General of 
the United States. In 2021, with AbbVie’s support, the Fund for 
Health Equity awarded $1.8 million to its first 
cohort of grantees of 10 community health 
organizations across the country. Some of 
the activities achieved by grantees include: 
• Hiring key staff roles and increasing their 
ability to serve their community 
• Convening community healthcare 
providers and advocates on the issues of 
health disparities 
• Establishing a workforce training program 
for Black and Latinx providers 
• Deploying health outreach buses and 
street medicine teams It took us a long time to create the 
issues we now have around health 
equity, and it's going to take a long 
time to fix them. That’s why having 
long term commitments, like the 
one AbbVie’s made, matter."
–  Dr. Byron Scott, M.D., MBA, co-chair of the Fund for 
Health Equity and board director of Direct Relief and 
chair of its Medical Advisory Council“46 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 47
We live in a time where young 
people have taken the brunt of this 
pandemic. Too many have not had 
an opportunity to keep up with their 
work due to the challenges of remote 
learning. AbbVie has stepped up in 
this important moment."
–  Marc H. Morial, Chief Executive Officer, National 
Urban League. Advisory Council“Serving our communities is core to AbbVie’s culture, and our 
employees around the world are committed to giving back. 
We are consistently recognized as a company that delivers 
on its giving promises. For the third consecutive year, AbbVie 
was honored by Great Place to Work® and PEOPLE as one of 
the 2021 Companies That Care®. 
Our employee giving and matching program encourages 
employees to make charitable donations to eligible nonprofit 
organizations. The AbbVie Foundation matches those 
contributions dollar for dollar, up to $5,000 per employee 
per year. In 2021, nearly 20,000 employees in more than 
50 countries raised $23.7 million for 11,400 nonprofits 
worldwide. Two years ago, the AbbVie Foundation committed 
to matching employee donations 3:1 to civil rights nonprofits 
fostering racial equity. By the end of 2021, $1.6 million had 
been raised to advance racial equity. 
Every year, all AbbVie employees can use up to two days 
of paid work time to volunteer in the community. While the 
pandemic paused in-person volunteering in 2021, such as 
Week of Possibilities, our global week of community service 
event, our employees found creative ways to stay engaged 
with our communities. 
A few examples of employee volunteering in 2021: 
• Over 200 AbbVie volunteers assembled and delivered over 
1,500 math and learning kits for underserved students  
and teachers 
• Nearly 600 AbbVie medical and non-medical volunteers in 
the Chicagoland area supported vaccination administration
• We partnered with Year Up to host virtual mock-interview 
events where AbbVie volunteers helped prepare 100+ 
young people for entry into the workforce 
• Teams in Ireland initiated five beach clean ups across  
the countryAcross AbbVie, we run several pro bono programs so that 
our employees can donate their specialized skills, typically in 
areas advancing medicine and contributing to the research of 
curing devastating diseases in the developing world. 
For more on our pro-bono work in neglected tropical diseases, 
please see the Product Innovation  section of this report. 
Through our legal pro bono program, approximately 15 
AbbVie attorneys and legal staff have been working with the 
National Immigrant Justice Center (NIJC), a nonprofit that 
provides legal services to immigrants and asylum seekers, 
since 2018 by donating their time and skills to represent 
people seeking asylum in the United States on grounds of 
political and gender persecution. We are proud to contribute 
to protecting human rights in this way. In 2021, we had four 
asylum victories through this work. We are actively connected 
with 10 clients still awaiting interviews. Employee Giving and Volunteering Expanding Vaccine Access in Underserved 
Communities 
Building Strong Communities 
 2021
Employee community volunteers (worldwide) 1,2451
Philanthropic Donations ($ millions)2$44.9
Students reached through education projects 387,879
Funds raised during employee giving campaign ($ millions) $23.7
Total amount donated to disaster relief organizations excluding product donations ($ millions) $1.2
1  In 2021, all AbbVie-organized in-person volunteering programs were paused due to COVID-19. That included our annual global volunteering event, Week of Possibilities. As a result, our 
volunteering numbers are not in line with our historic volunteering efforts and reflect select, small scale volunteering opportunities only.
2  Represents new KPI added to 2021 ESG Action Report. “Philanthropic Donations” are cash donations made by AbbVie Corporate and the AbbVie Foundation to recognized 501 (c)(3) 
charitable organizations.Key Performance Indicators: Economic Activity, Volunteerism and PhilanthropyAbbVie supports the resiliency of the communities we operate 
in, contributing to trusted nonprofits and local programs. The 
partnerships we build in the vicinity of our operations allow us 
to put our resources where they are most needed and where 
they can most have an impact. At AbbVie, supporting our employees, our patients, and 
giving back to underserved communities is an important part 
of who we are. From the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in 
2020, AbbVie quickly ramped up efforts to support COVID-19 
relief for nonprofits focused on frontline healthcare workers 
and populations in hard-hit communities. As vaccines 
became available, it was clear that mass inoculation would 
be critical to overcoming the pandemic. Therefore, in 
early 2021, AbbVie expanded its COVID-19 philanthropic 
support to vaccination efforts with a focus on marginalized 
communities disproportionately impacted by access barriers.  
AbbVie worked with Illinois’ Lake County Department of 
Public Health to launch a temporary vaccination clinic at the 
Greenbelt Cultural Center in North Chicago that vaccinated 
almost 6,000 seniors.  AbbVie worked with local government 
and media to drive awareness of the vaccination clinic and 
partnered with trusted community partners to support 
grassroot education efforts, appointment scheduling and 
transportation to the clinic.
Another key component of AbbVie’s COVID-19 philanthropic 
response in 2021 was empowering AbbVie employees to 
volunteer to support COVID-19 relief efforts. In Illinois, nearly 
600 AbbVie volunteers lent their medical and non-medical 
expertise to help administer more than 12,000 doses of 
the COVID-19 vaccine at a mass vaccination clinic in Lake 
County and contributed to an additional 7,000 vaccinations 
at a mass vaccination site in Chicago. Additionally, in Puerto 
Rico, employees partnered with Direct Relief and VOCES 
Puerto Rico Immunization and Health Promotion Coalition  
to process 4,000 vaccination records to help local 
government efforts. The past year has been very 
difficult and so many people lost 
their lives. This is my opportunity to 
give back and I am very happy that 
I’m relieving the frontline workers 
for one day at least."
–  AbbVie Safety Data Scientist Surya Jayanti on why she 
signed up to volunteer at the Lake County Fairgrounds.“of employees 
certified in Code of 
Business Conduct99%2021 Highlights
countries in which we 
have suppliers based143
small and diverse 
suppliers1,770
48 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 49
Our board of directors is committed to 
strong corporate governance to enhance 
long-term stockholder value. Eleven of 
our twelve directors are independent, 
including the chairs and all members of 
the Audit, Compensation, Public Policy 
and Nominations and Governance 
Committees. Since our inception, we have 
had a lead independent director with 
robust and specific responsibilities who 
ensures the appropriate mix of oversight 
and independence is applied to all board 
decisions. The lead independent director 
is chosen by and from the independent 
members of the board of directors. Each 
board committee follows a charter that 
details its purpose, authority  
and responsibilities. Corporate Governance 
AbbVie’s board and its committees have 
risk oversight responsibility for AbbVie. 
In 2021, the board continued to focus on 
overseeing the company’s response to 
COVID-19, including the impact on and 
resources for AbbVie employees. The board 
and its committees regularly review ESG 
topics that are meaningful to AbbVie, such 
as equity, equality, diversity and inclusion, 
environmental sustainability, and access. 
ESG touches the entire company and as 
such, each of the board’s committees, as 
well as the full board itself, oversees specific 
aspects of AbbVie’s ESG framework and 
strategy.
For more information on the oversight responsibilities 
of each committee, please see AbbVie’s annual proxy 
statement . To ensure continued and effective 
oversight, the board and its committees 
annually conduct detailed, anonymous 
self-evaluations. The full board, led by the 
lead independent director, discusses these 
evaluations to determine what, if any, actions 
or improvements should be undertaken. 
The board is also committed to AbbVie’s 
robust engagement with investors. 
AbbVie’s annual investor engagement 
program includes outreach to stockholders 
representing nearly 40% of outstanding 
shares to seek feedback on AbbVie’s 
practices. This stockholder feedback 
is used to continually improve AbbVie’s 
practices and disclosures. AbbVie is committed to a board with a 
diversity of experiences, identities and 
perspectives. Diversity on the board, and 
throughout our workforce, strengthens 
AbbVie’s business and the oversight of the 
company. Director nominees are based 
on a range of criteria, including diversity of 
race, ethnicity, gender, age and geography 
together with other volunteered identities. 
In the process of nominating individuals 
to serve as a member of the board of 
directors, the Nominations and Governance 
Committee considers the existing board’s 
diversity and assesses the effectiveness 
of the recruitment process in achieving a 
diverse board. Currently, 25% of our board 
identify as women and 17% identify as 
ethnically or racially diverse.Governance50 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 51
To make a positive, long-term impact for patients, we earn 
and maintain their trust by acting with integrity in everything 
we do. We follow all relevant laws and industry codes. 
Through our Code of Business Conduct , Supplier Code of 
Conduct and our internal anti-harassment and discrimination 
policy, we have clear expectations for appropriate behavior of 
everyone in AbbVie’s network. 
Our Code of Business Conduct applies to all employees 
globally and is available in 31 languages. During the second 
quarter of each year, all employees are required to complete 
training on the Code and certify that they will adhere to 
it. Our compliance training is continually reviewed and 
updated, as necessary. We also provide training to employees 
on anti-harassment and anti-discrimination policies and 
practices. Employees in particular functions take additional 
mandatory training on topics such as anti-corruption, anti-
bribery, conflicts of interest and more. In 2021, we added 
new modules to our conflicts of interest training. As we 
more fully integrated Allergan into AbbVie, we educated 
employees on our standards through additional training. 
We are also committed to ethical marketing practices, as 
outlined in our Code of Business Conduct.  For example, our 
advertising and promotion efforts focus on conveying useful product information to healthcare providers, patients and 
customers. We only promote our pharmaceutical products for 
uses that have been approved or authorized by appropriate 
government or regulatory agencies. Our product claims are 
grounded in scientific evidence, accepted medical practice 
and government approved labeling rules in all countries 
where we operate.
AbbVie’s workplace environment supports a culture where 
employees can raise questions and concerns, helping us 
advance our commitment to ethical behavior. We have 
established systems and processes for all employees to 
anonymously ask questions and report suspected or actual 
violations of our Code, policies and procedures. We offer 
various reporting opportunities to employees, such as our 
Ethics and Compliance Helpline, a telephone and web-based 
hotline that is available 24/7 and can be used anonymously. 
Employees may also contact the Office of Ethics and 
Compliance or Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer directly. 
All allegations are promptly investigated. If we find that 
violations have occurred, we take corrective or disciplinary 
action as appropriate. We do not tolerate retaliation against 
anyone who makes a good faith report.We believe in the inherent dignity of every human being. 
We uphold and respect individual rights as set out in 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, focusing on 
preventing, mitigating and remedying any adverse human 
rights impacts across our value chain. Our Commitment to 
Human Rights and the Code of Business Conduct describes 
the ways in which we ensure respect for all people, including 
our employees, contractors, suppliers and patients. We 
absolutely prohibit child labor, forced labor, involuntary 
labor, human trafficking and unfair wages and benefits from 
our own operations and within our supply chain. We do not 
tolerate harassment, discrimination or intimidation of any kind 
and are committed to maintaining a work environment free 
from intimidation, violence, or threats of violence. Additionally, 
our Global Privacy Policy protects the personal information of 
our employees, patients and customers. We comply with each country’s labor laws and respect our 
employees’ rights to collective bargaining and freedom 
of association. In countries with collective bargaining 
agreements, we have regular conversations with 
representatives to maintain an open dialogue. Twenty-four 
percent of our employees are represented by an independent 
trade union or covered by collective bargaining agreements. 
In Europe, our AbbVie European Employee Forum represents 
more than 10,000 employees and provides a forum to share 
information and build constructive dialogue with employee 
representatives across the region’s countries. 
AbbVie is committed to ensuring the humane care and 
use of laboratory animals in the company’s research and 
development programs. While research with animals is 
a regulatory requirement for the development of new 
medicines, AbbVie’s programs aim to exceed animal welfare 
agency standards. Animals are only used when alternatives 
will not provide the data necessary to discover and develop 
safe and effective medicines. AbbVie programs are proudly 
supported by technical staff with state-of-the-art training 
and certifications in research animal care, board-certified 
veterinarians who are specialists in the care of research 
species and a Global Animal Welfare Program that assures 
the highest and most advanced industry welfare standards 
are maintained. We are committed to internationally accepted principles 
of the 3Rs (refinement, reduction, replacement). In our 
research, we refine practices to minimize potential for pain or 
distress, reduce the number of animals required to achieve 
research objectives and replace animal studies with non-
animal models or insentient species where possible. In 
2021, 25 AbbVie research teams were rewarded internally 
for implementing animal welfare refinements, advanced 
technologies, improved modeling and non-animal in-vitro and 
in-silico platforms to reduce the number of animals required 
and, where appropriate, replace animal use. In addition, 
following the 10-year anniversary of our canine socialization, 
play and adoption programs, volunteers throughout the 
company continue to show enthusiastic devotion to the 
socialization, outdoor exercise, enrichment and pre-adoption 
acclimation of our valuable research animals.Ethical Conduct Human Rights 
Ethical Treatment of Animals We lead with ethical decision making. Good 
citizenship is good business, and good 
business ensures resilience and long-term 
success of the company. We pursue the 
highest standards—often exceeding legal 
and regulatory requirements—in quality, 
safety, compliance and performance. 
The foundation of our uncompromising 
integrity is our Code of Business Conduct, on 
which all employees must be trained and with 
which they agree to comply. Through this 
code, our employees have multiple avenues 
for the anonymous reporting of assumed or 
factual ethical violations. We promptly review 
and respond to every allegation. Protecting and ensuring the rights and 
dignity of each human are paramount to 
our ethical practices. We absolutely prohibit 
any violations of human rights in our own 
operations and those of our suppliers. 
Our treatment of animals is and will continue 
to be humane and compassionate. We 
adhere to international standards and all 
legal requirements in animal research 
practices. Our Code also outlines security 
and privacy practices as well, for both 
employee and patient data. We comply with 
current regulations and look ahead to those 
in the pipeline around the world, preparing  
in advance.Business Ethics 52 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 53
We established a multidisciplinary Global Digital Biomarkers 
Team (DBT) to explore novel applications of preclinical 
digital biomarkers. These technologies enable continuous, 
longitudinal and non-invasive monitoring of physiologic 
and behavioral parameters in rodents while they remain 
undisturbed in the comfort of their  
home environment. 
We formed a centralized Microphysiological Systems 
(MPS) working group to advance development and internal 
application of these in vitro models. MPS, such as organs-
on-chips, are non-living systems designed to mimic 
physiologically relevant functions of human or animal organs 
and tissues and are becoming a valuable tool to accelerate 
drug development. Other innovative approaches include:
• Use of 3D-printed anatomic models and artificial tissues 
to replace in vivo  
animal models 
• Development of extensive internal databases (e.g., gene 
sequencing, antibody promiscuity, absorption, and 
bioavailability data) to facilitate silico (computer-based) 
modeling capabilities 
• Development and validation of specialized cellular models 
to replace in vivo animal models for drug candidate pre-
screening and toxicity 
AbbVie is committed to ethical privacy practices and 
compliance with global privacy laws. AbbVie maintains a 
global privacy program with policies and procedures that 
are based on the European Union’s influential General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR). We continue to monitor the 
dozens of significant data privacy regulatory developments 
around the globe, including in the Middle East, China and the 
United States, and have developed an internal program to 
assess and implement these new laws into our global privacy 
program. This allows us to improve and mature our global 
program while also providing the flexibility to address local 
requirements. We continued the integration of AbbVie and Allergan privacy 
programs in 2021 as part of broader integration efforts. We 
evaluated major programs worldwide, including privacy 
guidance for COVID-19 and multiple loyalty programs 
across our products. The global privacy team developed 
a monitoring program and conducted data classification 
training programs to emphasize the importance of properly 
classifying and protecting AbbVie data, as well as developed 
and released a global data subject request tool, found in our 
Privacy Center. These efforts continue to position AbbVie 
to fulfill its global privacy obligations and ethical duties 
regarding its collection and processing of personal data in 
performing its business functions. 
In all our public policy engagements, we are transparent and 
compliant with our Code of Business Conduct. We pursue 
and advocate for policies that benefit patients, with a focus 
on improving access to medical advances and providing 
life-changing products to the patients who need them most. 
AbbVie makes extensive disclosures regarding our political 
activities and political contributions as required by law and voluntarily discloses additional related information on our 
website. We have been recognized as a first-tier company, 
providing the highest level of political transparency and 
accountability, in the CPA-Zicklin Index from 2014-2021. 
We are an active member of trade associations and other 
membership organizations that are aligned with our  
business objectives. Data Privacy and Security 
Public Policy 
 2021
Percentage of employees certifying on the AbbVie Code of Business Conduct 99%
Number of regulatory inspections of AbbVie commercial manufacturing facilities 57
Rate of expedited adverse event reporting EMA (European Medicines Agency) >99% Key Performance Indicators: Ethics and ComplianceRisk management is a key focus for AbbVie. Our board of 
directors reviews enterprise risks and discusses them with 
senior management on a regular basis. The board receives 
regular reports from cross-functional leaders with subject 
matter expertise in risk management within their areas of 
responsibility. Each member is responsible for proactively 
identifying and mitigating risks in their respective functions 
and providing feedback on these risks. Specific risks are 
additionally overseen by our Risk Management and Global  
Security teams. 
Our Executive Crisis Management Team (ECMT) anticipates 
and mitigates internal and external business risks. This team, 
led by our EVP, Operations, and consisting of functional 
leaders from across the enterprise, assesses each area of our 
business considering economic, environmental, and other 
risks with potential impacts to our facilities, employees and 
partners, and supply chains. With these inputs we establish 
risk management strategies and formal plans. In 2021, we 
integrated Allergan into this planning. We routinely review 
and adjust plans to improve effectiveness and strengthen 
protection for our patients, employees and our business. AbbVie’s Global Security team conducts annual training with 
practice risk scenarios for our global and local Crisis Action 
Teams (CATs) on topics such as preparedness and resiliency 
for expected and unexpected crisis events. In 2020 and 2021, 
our CATs met regularly to address and manage the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic. Our Business Technology Solutions 
team conducts cybersecurity awareness training across 
the entire employee network that focuses on educating 
employees how to identify and report cyber-threats. 
Our Global Anti-Counterfeiting Steering Committee is 
responsible for identifying and mitigating risks related to 
AbbVie medicines. AbbVie’s Product Security Alert (PSA) 
Board is responsible for reviewing and reporting substandard 
and falsified medicines to the relevant authorities.
With the integration of Allergan, we expanded our work 
to prevent counterfeiting. For example, together with the 
Chinese government, we worked to address counterfeit 
and diverted BOTOX® and other Allergan products. We also 
increased facility security at Allergan production sites to meet 
the highest-level standards to which AbbVie complies. 
In 2020, we piloted a risk assessment exercise with select 
brand supply teams. We introduced catastrophic events, like 
hurricanes that result in total inventory loss, to this pilot and 
identified the key nodes in each product’s supply chain to 
consider the full breadth of risk. With its success, we rolled 
out the same assessment to our eight largest brands in 2021.A reliable supply chain allows AbbVie to 
deliver on our commitment to patients. In 
2021, we purchased goods and services 
valued at more than $15.6 billion from over 
51,000 suppliers across 143 countries. Our 
supply chain strategy includes support 
for small and diverse businesses. In 
2021, we spent $715 million working with 
approximately 1,770 small and diverse 
businesses the United States, including 
Puerto Rico. With AbbVie’s investment, thousands of 
suppliers are met with business and growth 
opportunities, many of them working 
closely with AbbVie experts. We expect 
our suppliers to espouse the same social 
and environmental values that we do: 
diversity and inclusion, sustainable business 
practices and human rights protections. 
To ensure alignment with these values, 
our suppliers are asked to comply with our 
Supplier Code of Conduct.Risk Management 
Supply Chain Sustainability54 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 55
A core goal of AbbVie’s is to ensure our medicines and 
products are available for patients who need them, when 
they need them. One way we achieve this is by maintaining 
an assurance of supply, requiring all suppliers of core 
inputs to be able to deliver quality products on time. We 
regularly track the business stability of crucial suppliers 
to preemptively mitigate any risk and develop solutions. 
In 2021, given the ongoing uncertainties of the COVID-19 pandemic, we conducted a pre-buy to purchase key materials 
to ensure we met patient needs throughout the year. During 
the pandemic we also supported a handful of our critical 
suppliers financially and strategically, to continue to meet our 
commitment to patients. While backorders and shortages 
impacted multiple industries around the world, we were able 
to make our products available to our patients over 99% of 
the time.Assurance of Supply56 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 57
At In Case of Emergency (ICE) our 
mission is to ensure no person 
becomes ill, injured or loses a life at 
work. AbbVie’s mentorship program 
gave ICE the tools and resources to 
survive the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
mentorship program paved the way 
to success for us and highlighted the 
organization’s strengths, weaknesses, 
threats and opportunities. This 
helped us see that we can persevere 
and increase revenues even in the 
toughest of times."
–  Pamela Isom, President and CEO of ICE  
Safety Solutions “
Our Supplier Diversity Program enhances our 
competitiveness in the market by advancing opportunities to 
partner with small, woman- and minority-owned businesses. 
AbbVie continues to support our diverse suppliers—
including underrepresented populations, women, military 
veterans and the disabled community—through integration 
into our supply chain. Our Diverse Supplier Mentoring 
program, in partnership with the Diversity Alliance for 
Science, provides business owners with tools, resources and 
counsel. We also sponsor and provide scholarships for our 
diverse suppliers to participate in entrepreneurial education 
programs and conferences. 
We take a broad approach to discovering and connecting 
with these businesses. AbbVie representatives participate in 
matchmaking events, trade fairs and conferences where we 
can understand the products and services of these  
diverse businesses. AbbVie works with suppliers who, like us, operate with the 
future in mind. Our Supplier Social Responsibility Program 
requires our suppliers to maintain fair labor practices,  
foster worker safety, actively assess and manage their  
risk and maintain environmentally responsible  
manufacturing processes. 
In 2021, AbbVie completed its biennial supplier sustainability 
survey with our top 200 suppliers by spend. This survey included sections on environmental sustainability, labor, 
ethics and cybersecurity. Should our suppliers need support 
to achieve compliance or have an interest in establishing 
higher standards, our Environmental, Health and Safety 
(EHS) team offers pro bono services, including EHS audits 
and sustainability training. We outline our expectations and 
requirements to our suppliers through our Supplier Code of 
Conduct , all of whom must comply. 
AbbVie conducts quality assessments and audits of our 
critical suppliers to ensure suppliers uphold our standards. 
Should AbbVie standards not be met, we conduct a detailed 
risk evaluation that considers the potential impact on product efficacy, safety, availability and patient experience. We 
conduct an in-depth audit of these critical suppliers at least 
once every three years. We take strong, proactive measures 
to maintain the security of our supply chain. Supplier Diversity Supplier Social Responsibility Program 
Supplier Risk Management
 2021
Total supplier spend (worldwide) ($ millions) $15,600
Total spend with small and diverse U.S. suppliers ($ millions) $715
Number of supplier sites assessed in-depth for quality 470
Percentage of supplier sites with greatest impact on product quality and safety assessed in-depth 49%Key Performance Indicators: Supplier Spend and DiversityAbbVie’s mission is to make a remarkable 
impact on people’s lives today and advance 
groundbreaking science to address the 
medical challenges of tomorrow, while 
achieving top tier financial performance.
We will continue to live up to this mission by: 
• Discovering and developing innovative 
medicines and products that solve serious 
health issues 
• Nurturing diverse talent as a source  
of innovation
• Partnering and collaborating with 
healthcare systems, diverse suppliers 
and community organizations to deliver 
effective medicines and supportive 
strategies that advance science, improve 
health outcomes and strengthen our 
collective impact Our existing portfolio and promising pipeline 
of new medicines and treatments provide us 
with a strong outlook for 2022 and beyond. 
As we approach our 10-year anniversary 
of being an independent company, we 
will continue to innovate with integrity and 
intention to advance the long-term health of 
our patients, our people and our planet. We 
are driven by our commitment to science, 
which is a commitment to better our society. Looking Ahead58 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 5960 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 61
        SDG Relevant sub-targets AbbVie’s role
3.2  End preventable deaths of newborns and 
children < 5 years of age
3.3  End AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and 
neglected tropical diseases; combat 
hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other 
communicable diseases
3.4 Reduce premature mortality from non-
communicable diseases through prevention 
and treatment; promote mental health and 
well-beingOur medicines treat respiratory conditions in premature 
newborns, HIV and hepatitis C and cancer. Our research on 
neglected tropical diseases, tuberculosis and malaria will help to 
directly address these targets. In addition, our philanthropy work 
includes supporting and strengthening healthcare systems.
Read more in the Product Innovation and Community & 
Partner Engagement and Impact sections of this report.
4.1   Ensure all girls and boys complete free, 
equitable, quality education  
4.4   Increase the number of people who have 
relevant skills for employment, decent jobs 
and entrepreneurship
4.5   Eliminate gender disparities in education 
and ensure equal access to education and 
training for the vulnerable
4.a   Build and upgrade education facilities that 
are child, disability and gender sensitive 
and provide safe, nonviolent, inclusive and 
effective learning environments for allSupporting effective educational programs for underserved 
school-age children is a philanthropic priority for AbbVie and the 
AbbVie Foundation.
By leveraging our highly skilled workforce, we advance skill 
development for underserved students through mentorship, 
training and exposure to STEM projects.
Read more in Community & Partner Engagement and 
Impact.  
5.1   End all forms of discrimination against all 
women and girls
5.2   Eliminate all forms of violence against 
women and girls in the public and private 
spheres, including trafficking and sexual and 
other types of exploitation
5.5   Ensure women’s full and effective 
participation and equal opportunities for 
leadership at all levels of decision-making in 
political, economic and public lifeOur five-year Equity, Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EED&I) 
strategy is focused on creating a culture of equity & inclusion 
through education, removing barriers, creating differentiation 
and measurement. 
We work towards gender equity through activities such as our 
global Women’s Leadership Journey development program to 
help women progress into senior roles.
Our anti-discrimination, anti-harassment and anti-violence 
policies extend through our organization and to our suppliers. 
Read more in the Human Capital Management and Supply 
Chain Sustainability sections of this report.        SDG Relevant sub-targets AbbVie’s role
6.4  By 2030, substantially increase water-use 
efficiency across all sectors and ensure 
sustainable withdrawals and supply of 
freshwater to address water scarcity and 
substantially reduce the number of people 
suffering from water scarcityAccess to clean water is crucial for health, and we are committed 
to using water responsibly and doing our part to protect this vital 
resource. We have set an ambitious goal to halve our absolute 
water withdrawal by 2035 when compared with our 2015 
baseline. To achieve this goal, we focus our efforts on reducing 
our total global water consumption and investing in innovative 
technologies that allow us to use water more efficiently.
Read more in the Environmental Sustainability section of  
this report. 
8.1  Sustain per capita economic growth in 
accordance with national circumstances 
8.2  Achieve higher levels of economic 
productivity through diversification, 
technological upgrading and innovation
8.5  Achieve full and productive employment 
and decent work for all women and men, 
including for young people and persons 
with disabilities, and equal pay for work of  
equal valueWe have employees in more than 70 countries and purchase 
over $15.6B in goods and services from a supplier network 
spanning 143 countries and all 50 U.S. states.
We recruit and hire from historically underrepresented groups 
and provide economic opportunity and technical support to
small and diverse suppliers.
Supporting communities is also a priority of the AbbVie 
Foundation. We partner with nonprofit organizations and engage 
our employees to support learning and workforce readiness 
programs, particularly in underserved communities.
Read more in the Supply Chain Sustainability, Human Capital 
Management, and Community & Partner Engagement and 
Impact sections of this report. 
9.4  By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit 
industries to make them sustainable, 
with increased resource-use efficiency 
and greater adoption of clean and 
environmentally sound technologies and 
industrial processes, with all countries taking 
action in accordance with their respective 
capabilities 
9.5  Enhance scientific research, upgrade the 
technological capabilities of industrial 
sectors in all countries, in particular 
developing countries, including, by 2030, 
encouraging innovation and substantially 
increasing the number of research and 
development workers per 1 million people 
and public and private research and 
development spendingIntegrating sustainability into our design, planning and 
development allows us to embed environmental sustainability 
into our business activities, supporting our environmental 
targets and sustainable business growth. In 2021, we rolled 
out refreshed Global Facility Design Guidelines to our facility 
designers and engineers across the globe. These design 
guidelines include over 100 sustainable design concepts that 
can be incorporated into new facility design and upgrades.
Most of our design concepts were integrated into our new 
R&D facility located in South San Francisco, a LEED Platinum 
building. Opened in 2021, the building includes energy efficient 
lighting and lighting controls, as well as a rainwater  
harvesting system.
AbbVie employs over 11,000 professionals worldwide in 
Research & Development.
Read more in the Environmental Sustainability and Product 
Innovation sections of this report. 
We are committed to contributing to the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). We have identified ten SDGs that align closely with our actions.Our Contribution to the UN SDGsIndexes62 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 63
        SDG Relevant sub-targets AbbVie’s role
10.2  Sustain per capita economic growth in 
accordance with national circumstances 
10.4  Achieve higher levels of economic 
productivity through diversification, 
technological upgrading and innovationEquality of opportunity is very important to us. After our 
$50 million commitment in late 2020 to advance health 
and education equity in Black and historically marginalized 
communities, we’ve worked with our nonprofit partners to 
set the foundation for their programs and are accelerating 
measurable progress on health, education, and workforce 
disparities rooted in racism. 
Internally, through our five-year EEDI strategy that was 
established in 2019, we have developed new initiatives and 
continued our progress towards our objectives that aim to 
address historical inequities and provide equal opportunities for 
employment and advancements.
Read more in the Community & Partner Engagement and 
Impact and Human Capital Management sections of  
this report.
11.5   Reduce the number of people affected 
and substantially decrease the direct 
economic losses caused by disasters with a 
focus on protecting the poor and people in 
vulnerable situations
11.6   By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita 
environmental impact of cities, including by 
paying special attention to air quality and 
municipal and other waste managementOur philanthropic work is focused on investing in long-term 
solutions that build community strength and resilience. For 
example, we have been making long-term investments in Puerto 
Rico to assist in recovery efforts following natural disasters and
be better prepared for future disasters. In addition, in 2021, we 
supported underserved communities in the US, Brazil and India 
by providing COVID-19 surge relief and vaccine access.
As a pharmaceutical company, we produce hazardous and 
non-hazardous waste at our manufacturing and research sites. 
We recognize the importance of minimizing waste and using 
appropriate disposal methods. Whenever possible, we avoid 
landfills and continuously evaluate opportunities to reduce, 
reuse, and recycle our waste materials. In 2016, we set a goal to 
send zero waste to landfill by 2035. As of 2021, we’re 89% of the 
way to achieving this goal. 
Read more in the Community & Partner Engagement and 
Impact and Environmental Sustainability sections of  
this report. 
12.2  Achieve sustainable management and 
efficient use of natural resources
12.4  Achieve environmentally sound 
management of chemicals and  wastes; 
significantly reduce their release to air, water 
and soil to minimize adverse impacts on 
health and the environment
12.5  Reduce waste generation through 
prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse
12.6  Encourage companies to adopt sustainable 
practices and integrate sustainability 
information into their reporting cycleTo operate sustainably, we must use natural resources efficiently 
and manage waste in a way that preserves the health of our 
environment.
We have set absolute targets for reduction of our carbon 
emissions, water consumption and waste generation and are 
actively taking steps to meet them. 
Read more in the Environmental Sustainability section of  
this report. 
        SDG Relevant sub-targets AbbVie’s role
13.1  Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity 
to climate-related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countriesClimate change will increasingly impact health and well-being 
globally. We continually evaluate the impact of climate change 
on our business. As a provider of essential medicines, we must 
minimize the impacts on our continuity of supply and have a
governance approach in place to do so.
We anticipate climate-related risks and act proactively to 
mitigate them. We also support disaster relief partners to help 
to strengthen community resilience and recovery from climate-
related hazards.
We committed to join the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) 
and are working on setting ambitious science-based emissions 
reduction targets.
Read more in the Environmental Sustainability and 
Community & Partner Engagement and Impact sections of 
this report. 
64 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 65
Safety of Clinical Trial Participants
HC-BP-210a.1 Discussion, by world region, of 
management process for ensuring 
quality and patient safety during 
clinical trials We require all our clinical studies to be conducted in a manner consistent 
with the ethical principles outlined in the World Medical Association’s 
Declaration of Helsinki and to adhere to applicable standards set by the 
International Council for Harmonization of Technical Requirements for 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH). This includes adherence to Good 
Clinical Practice, Good Laboratory Practice and Good Manufacturing 
Practice standards, which provide assurance that the rights, safety, well-
being and ethical treatment of trial participants are protected. 
Read more in the Clinical Trials section of this report.
• Conduct of Clinical Trials & Postmarketing Commitments
• Registration of protocols & results reporting
• Clinical Trials
• Our Commitment to Bioethics
HC-BP-210a.2 Number of FDA Sponsor Inspections 
related to clinical trial management and 
pharmacovigilance that resulted in (1) 
Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI) and (2) 
Official Action Indicated (OAI) • U.S. Food & Drug Administration Inspection Classification 
Database
HC-BP-210a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with clinical trials in developing 
countries Not reported.
Access to Medicines
HC-BP-240a.1 Description of actions and initiatives to 
promote access to healthcare products 
for priority diseases and in priority 
countries as defined by the Access to 
Medicine Index At AbbVie, we believe patients need access to quality and affordable 
medicines. We continuously strive to improve health outcomes and 
increase access to healthcare services and our medicines for patients 
around the world, including through agreements with the Medicines 
Patent Pool.  AbbVie partners with stakeholders on interventions to help 
build healthcare capacity, increase the quality and frequency of health 
worker training and educate patients about disease awareness, symptom 
management and treatment options.
• Making Medicine Accessible
• Our Commitment to Access to Medicine 
• AbbVie Contribution to Combatting Neglected Tropical Diseases
• AbbVie MPP HCV Agreement
• AbbVie MPP HIV Agreement
HC-BP-240a.2 List of products on the WHO List of 
Prequalified Medicinal Products as 
part of its Prequalification of Medicines 
Programme (PQP) • World Health Organization Prequalification of Medical ProductsCounterfeit Drugs
HC-BP-260a.1 Description of methods and 
technologies used to maintain 
traceability of products throughout 
the supply chain and prevent 
counterfeiting Specific risks are overseen by our Risk Management and Global Security 
teams. Our Global Anti-Counterfeiting Steering Committee is responsible 
for identifying and mitigating risks related to AbbVie medicines. They 
coordinate proactive strategies for preventing counterfeiting and diversion 
of our medicines and conduct routine monitoring to identify signals of 
possible counterfeiting or diversion. In 2021, the Office of Ethics and 
Compliance worked with external consulting firms to review AbbVie’s 
policies, systems and controls related to high-risk business areas/activities. 
Read more in the Risk Management, Product Quality and Safety and 
Supply Chain Sustainability sections of this report.
See AbbVie Supplier Code of Conduct
HC-BP-260a.2 Discussion of process for alerting 
customers and business partners of 
potential or known risks associated 
with counterfeit products AbbVie has established and maintains systems for global reporting of events 
and deviations, including counterfeit products. Any possible events will be 
submitted accurately and timely per the pertinent regulations. See AbbVie 
Supplier Code of Conduct
HC-BP-260a.3 Number of actions that led to 
raids, seizure, arrests and/or filing 
or criminal charges related to 
counterfeit products Not reported.Affordability & Pricing
HC-BP-240b.1 Number of settlements of Abbreviated New 
Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that 
involved payments and/or provisions to delay 
bringing an authorized generic product to 
market for a defined time period If there are material legal proceedings associated with ANDA 
litigation and public disclosure criteria are met, details would be 
included in 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q.
HC-BP-240b.2 Percentage change in: (1) average list price 
and (2) average net price across U.S product 
portfolio compared to previous year Not reported.
HC-BP-240b.3 Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) 
net price of product with largest increase 
compared to previous year Not reported.
Drug Safety
HC-BP-250a.1 Number of settlements of Abbreviated New 
Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that 
involved payments and/or provisions to delay 
bringing an authorized generic product to 
market for a defined time period • U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) Med Watch Safety 
Alerts for Human Medical Products
HC-BP-250a.2 Percentage change in: (1) average list price 
and (2) average net price across U.S product 
portfolio compared to previous year • U.S Food & Drug Administration (FDA)Adverse Event 
Reporting System (FEARS) Public Dashboard
HC-BP-250a.3 Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) 
net price of product with largest increase 
compared to previous year FDA Class I Recalls: 0
FDA Class II Product Recalls: 1
Read more in the Product Quality and Safety section of this report.
• U.S Food & Drug Administration (FDA)Adverse Event 
Reporting System (FEARS) Public Dashboard
HC-BP-250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for takeback, 
reuse, or disposal Not reported.
HC-BP-250a.5 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken 
in response to violations of current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) by type Not reported.SASB Index: Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals66 2021 ESG Action Report  2021 ESG Action Report 67
Ethical Marketing
HC-BP-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with false marketing claims  If there are material legal proceedings associated with false marketing 
claims and public disclosure criteria are met, monetary losses as a  
result of legal proceedings would be included in 2021 Annual Report 
Form 10-K and in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
HC-BP-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing 
promotion of off-label use of products AbbVie only promotes our pharmaceutical products for uses that have 
been approved or authorized by appropriate government or regulatory 
agencies. AbbVie product claims are grounded in scientific evidence, 
accepted medical practice and government-approved labeling rules 
in all countries where we operate. See AbbVie Code of Business 
Conduct for more information.
Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention
HC-BP-330a.1 Discussion of talent recruitment and 
retention efforts for scientists and 
research and development personnel We strive to ensure every employee is aware of, and has access to, 
opportunities for learning, growth and advancement. We believe in self-
directed growth and development, where employees set the objectives 
that they want to achieve.  We supplement this individualized approach 
with company-wide education and an investment in emerging leaders.  
We also conduct annual Talent Management Reviews, driven from the 
organizational perspective and led by our leaders across all functions.
Read more in the Developing and Engaging Diverse Talent and 
Developing Our People section of this report.
HC-BP-330a.2 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover 
rate for: (a) executives/senior managers, 
(b) midlevel managers, (c) professionals, 
and (d) all others Overall turnover rate in 2021: 10.7%
Voluntary turnover rate in 2021: 8.1%
Please see KPI’s in the Human Capital Management section.
Supply Chain Sustainability
HC-BP-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) 
Tier 1 suppliers' facilities participating in 
the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Consortium audit program 
or equivalent third-party audit programs 
for integrity of supply chain and 
ingredients See AbbVie Supplier Code of Conduct
Business Ethics
HC-BP-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with corruption and bribery If there are material legal proceedings associated with corruption and 
bribery and public disclosure criteria are met, monetary losses would be 
included in AbbVie’s 2021 Annual Report Form 10-K and in Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q .
HC-BP-510a.2 Description of code of ethics 
governing interactions with healthcare 
professionals AbbVie is fair and open in our interactions with healthcare professionals. 
AbbVie does not offer or give gifts or other items or services of value to 
earn favor for our products or to sway medical judgement. AbbVie relies 
on product quality and healthcare outcomes to influence purchasing 
and prescribing practices. 
See Business Ethics section of the report and AbbVie Code of 
Business Conduct
Activity Metrics
HC-BP-000.A Number of patients treated Approximately 62 million
HC-BP-000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and  
(2) in research and development  
(Phases 1-3) AbbVie medicines and devices treat more than 60 conditions across 
infant, adolescent, adult and senior stages of life.
AbbVie’s pipeline currently includes more than 90 compounds, devices 
or indications in development individually or under collaboration or 
license agreements. Of these programs, more than 50 are in mid- and 
late-stage development.AbbVie Inc.  
1 North Waukegan Road 
North Chicago, IL 60064 U.S.A.
abbvie.com
©2022 AbbVie. All rights reserved.For more information, visit:  
abbvie.com  
abbvie.com/societalimpact