2019
Responsible
Action 
ReportTable of contents
A message from our CEO   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Our company and our business   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
2019 highlights   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Our approach to corporate responsibility   . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Making a remarkable impact for patients   . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Building and supporting a diverse,   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 
high-performing workforce
Making positive contributions to society   . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Looking ahead   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
The purpose of this report is to describe our approach to corporate 
responsibility and our recent work to advance our responsibility priorities .
2019 Responsible Action Report  1
“ Making a remarkable 
impact requires 
taking the long  
view – of investment, 
research and 
development and 
how we can be an 
effective long-term 
partner in health  
and well-being . ”A message  
from our CEO
At AbbVie, we are guided in everything we do by our desire to make a remarkable impact 
on the lives of patients .
As we launched new treatments in immunology and oncology and continued to advance 
our pipeline, we also worked collaboratively with many external partners to advance 
long-term efforts in eliminating hepatitis C, treatments for neglected tropical diseases, 
evidence-based disease management, health care access and community resilience .
The decision to acquire Allergan is part of our strategy to ensure long-term sustainability  
for AbbVie and increase our ability to meet the needs of patients . Allergan brings 
therapeutic area leadership, diversification and resources that will help fuel continued 
investment in research on new treatments for debilitating and life-threatening conditions 
such as cancer and neurodegenerative disease .
The COVID-19 pandemic that emerged at the end of 2019 has challenged governments, 
health care providers and researchers around the world to act quickly in an effort to save 
lives . Like many of our peers, AbbVie has responded rapidly to requests from countries 
and organizations around the world for medicine, clinical research and financial support  . 
We also recognize that the pandemic is far from over and we will continue to do our 
part to protect and support our patients, employees and stakeholders in this changing 
environment  .
It is my pleasure to introduce the AbbVie 2019 Responsible Action Report  . It is intended 
to share some of the many ways we run a successful business that makes a genuine and 
lasting impact for patients, employees and communities .
Sincerely,
Rick Gonzalez 
Chairman & CEO
2  2019 Responsible Action Report
AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company 
committed to discovering, developing and delivering innovative 
medicines with distinct and meaningful benefits for people . We 
aim for transformative change, not just incremental improvement  .
Our medicines help people living in more than 175 countries and 
help treat patients with conditions such as chronic autoimmune 
diseases, cancer, virologic diseases, neurological disorders, 
metabolic diseases and other serious health conditions .
Our state-of-the-art research, development and manufacturing 
centers across the world allow us to perform cutting-edge 
research and to move the best ideas forward faster  . In addition 
to our North Chicago headquarters, we have discovery and 
development centers in the Boston, Massachusetts area and the 
San Francisco Bay Area, California, United States; Ludwigshafen, 
Germany; and Tokyo, Japan . We have manufacturing facilities 
in the United States, Puerto Rico, Italy, Ireland, Germany and 
Singapore, and our supply chain spans more than 120 countries 
and all 50 U  .S . states .
The acquisition of Allergan will provide AbbVie with leading 
marketed products, both expanding and diversifying our  
business and aligning with our gastroenterology and 
neuroscience focus areas .
We are a passionate, diverse and inclusive organization with  
a culture that supports the best ideas, wherever they originate . 
Bringing diversity of thought to the collaborative process helps  
us break barriers and explore new frontiers in science .Our company and our business 2019
30,000+
Employees
70+
Countries with employees
8
Research & development centers
14
Manufacturing facilities
175+
Countries where our products are sold
52M+
Patients treated globally2019 Responsible Action Report  3
Our company and our business 2019Research and development
We achieved nine new product approvals or indication expansions from major regulatory authorities . These 
included approval of new treatments for rheumatoid arthritis and moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, as  
well as new treatments for previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
Access to medicine
We expanded our U  .S . patient assistance program, myAbbVie Assist, providing free AbbVie medicines to more 
than 89,000 qualified patients .
Equality, diversity and inclusion
We implemented a new five-year global Equality, Diversity and Inclusion strategy, with goals linked to executive 
compensation and an inclusive leadership toolkit for people managers . We also launched a seventh Employee 
Resource Group, Ability at AbbVie, to address the needs and concerns of people with disabilities and their 
caregivers .
Environmental sustainability
We launched a new environmental sustainability strategy focused on reducing our environmental footprint, 
ensuring sustainable growth as well as inspiring, educating and engaging our workforce to steward 
sustainability within and beyond AbbVie .
Employee volunteerism and community engagement
AbbVie employees around the world volunteered more than 68,000 hours in their communities and dedicated 
another 20,000 hours conducting pro bono research and development projects .2019 Highlights
Dow Jones Sustainability 
World IndexAbbVie was again named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, as we have every year 
since our founding in 2013 .
FTSE4Good Index AbbVie has been a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index since 2016 .
CR Magazine’s 100 Best 
Corporate CitizensIn 2019, AbbVie made its first appearance on the list, ranking in the top 20 for outstanding 
environmental, social and governance transparency and performance among the 1,000 largest 
U .S . public companies .
The Civic 50 For the sixth year, AbbVie was recognized as one of America’s most community-minded 
companies and honored by The Civic 50 for our commitment to improving quality of life in 
communities where we do business .
PEOPLE’s Companies  
that CareAbbVie was one of PEOPLE’s 50 U  .S . companies highlighted for caring for their communities, their 
employees and the world .
World’s Best Workplaces For the third year in a row, AbbVie was on the World’s Best Workplaces list from Fortune and Great 
Place to Work  .
DiversityInc Top 50 
Companies for DiversityAbbVie was again named to the DiversityInc Top 50 Companies for Diversity in the United States, 
as we have every year since 2014 .
Working Mother’s  
100 Best CompaniesFor the second consecutive year, AbbVie was among the Top 10 companies on Working Mother’s 
100 Best Companies list, in our seventh year on the list  .We are proud of recognition received and use it to benchmark our efforts .4  2019 Responsible Action Report
At AbbVie, we strive to make a remarkable impact on 
patients and drive sustainable growth by discovering and 
delivering a consistent stream of innovative medicines  
that address serious health problems.
Our Principles articulate what we believe to be right and true . 
They are foundational to our culture and guide our priorities, 
decisions and behaviors:
• Transforming Lives
• Acting with Integrity
• Driving Innovation
• Embracing Diversity & Inclusion
• Serving the Community
These are long-term ambitions, supported by many day-to-day 
actions . We consider it our responsibility to ensure that the 
actions we take every day align with our principles and support 
our goals, being thoughtful about how our business decisions 
affect the many stakeholders we impact  .
The AbbVie Board of Directors and its Public Policy Committee 
oversee our corporate responsibility strategy  .Our approach to corporate 
responsibility
Materiality
Our corporate responsibility priorities reflect the most 
material drivers of our success, as well as the issues 
that are of greatest significance to our employees and 
stakeholders, including health care providers, investors, 
non-profit partners, patients and patient organizations, 
payers, policymakers and suppliers .
Through regular and routine engagement with internal and 
external stakeholders, those drivers have been identified as:
• Product innovation and R&D productivity
• Drug pricing, reimbursement, intellectual property and 
biosimilar landscape
• Product quality and security
• Transparency, ethics and compliance
• Health and well-being at all ages
• Environmental stewardship
We also evaluate our efforts relative to external frameworks 
such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, CDP and 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) . 
Through this process, we have identified additional topics 
of importance to AbbVie and our stakeholders, including:
• Equality, diversity and inclusion
• Talent attraction, retention and development
• Community engagement2019 Responsible Action Report  5
Corporate 
strategyWe strive to make a remarkable impact on patients and drive sustainable  
growth by discovering and delivering a consistent stream of innovative  
medicines that address serious health problems.
PrinciplesDriving innovation
Transforming lives
Embracing diversity and inclusionActing with integrity Serving the community
Creating real health improvement  
is our mission and the premise 
of our business . To be a leading 
health care innovator, we must 
attract, retain and support a  
diverse workforce and invest in 
efforts to develop medicines  
that bring value for patients .We recognize that health is of 
fundamental importance to all 
people . To participate over the  
long term in the provision of  
health care, we must earn and 
maintain the trust of patients, 
health care providers, regulators, 
policymakers and the public .The health of our business  
is intertwined with that of our 
communities . We can use  
our unique resources to  
support well-being, resilience  
and growth in the communities 
where we do business and help 
lay the foundation for broader 
community vitality  .
Corporate 
responsibility 
prioritiesUse our expertise  
to improve healthSteward our ethical and 
sustainable businessSupport long-term  
community strength
Key issues 
impacting:
PatientsWe conduct research to make 
innovative medicines that offer 
real patient benefit  .We maintain high standards  
of ethics, safety and quality  .We advance patient, family and 
caregiver well-being through 
education and support  .
EmployeesWe promote a diverse, inclusive 
workplace and invest in 
development to drive innovation .We protect human rights and 
workplace safety  .We support our people so they 
can be their best every day  .
SocietyWe give medicines, expertise and 
funding to promote health needs 
of the underserved .We prioritize environmental 
sustainability across our business 
and supply chain .We support communities through 
economic activity, employee 
community engagement  
and philanthropy  .Our corporate responsibility framework
Our Corporate Responsibility framework shows how our mission, our corporate strategy and our materiality assessment come 
together in clear priorities that guide our actions .6  2019 Responsible Action Report
Our contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals
The United Nations developed the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, a blueprint for achieving the vision of a better and 
more sustainable future for all . Underpinning the agenda are 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), each with multiple sub-
targets . At AbbVie, we want to contribute to the achievement of the Agenda by advancing the goals and sub-targets that align most 
closely with our capabilities and responsibility commitments . We’ve identified six SDGs and, within them, key sub-targets as our 
primary focus . Our activities may also advance other goals and we continuously evaluate opportunities to expand our contributions .
Learn more about the SDGs here .
SDG Relevant Sub-Targets AbbVie’s Role
3 .2  End preventable deaths of newborns and children < 5 years  
of age
3 .3  End AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical 
diseases; combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other 
communicable diseases
3 .4  Reduce premature mortality from non-communicable diseases 
through prevention and treatment; promote mental health and 
well-beingOur research on neglected tropical diseases, tuberculosis and 
malaria will help to directly address these targets .
Our medicines treat respiratory conditions in premature newborns, 
HIV, hepatitis C and cancer  .
4 .1  Ensure all girls and boys complete free, equitable, quality 
education
4 .4  Increase the number of people who have relevant skills for 
employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship
4 .5  Eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal 
access to education and training for the vulnerable
4 .A  Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability  
and gender sensitive and provide safe, nonviolent, inclusive  
and effective learning environments for allEducation enables the achievement of other goals, including health 
and prosperity  .
Supporting effective educational programs for school-age children  
is a philanthropic priority for AbbVie and the AbbVie Foundation .
By engaging our highly educated workforce, we advance skill 
development for underserved students through mentorship, training 
and exposure to STEM projects .
5 .1  End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls
5 .2  Eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls in the 
public and private spheres, including trafficking and sexual and 
other types of exploitation
5 .5  Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal 
opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making  
in political, economic and public lifeAt AbbVie, we respect the human rights of all individuals . We 
appreciate the contributions that women – and people of all 
backgrounds – make to an enterprise where diversity of thought 
drives innovation .
Our anti-discrimination, anti-harassment and anti-violence policies 
extend through our organization and to our suppliers . We pursue 
equality through deliberate action in our company, with our suppliers 
and in our communities .
8 .1  Sustain per capita economic growth in accordance with  
national circumstances
8 .2  Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through 
diversification, technological upgrading and innovation
8 .5  Achieve full and productive employment and decent work for  
all women and men, including for young people and persons  
with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal valueWe have employees around the globe and purchase goods and 
services from a supplier network spanning over 120 countries and  
all 50 U  .S . states .
We prioritize recruiting and hiring from historically underrepresented 
groups and provide economic opportunity and technical support to 
small and diverse suppliers .
Supporting communities is also a priority of the AbbVie Foundation .  
We partner with nonprofit organizations and engage our employees 
to provide learning and workforce readiness programs .
12 .2  Achieve sustainable management and efficient use of  
natural resources
12 .4  Achieve environmentally sound management of chemicals  
and wastes; significantly reduce their release to air, water and 
soil to minimize adverse impacts on health and the environment
12 .5  Reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, 
recycling and reuse
12 .6  Encourage companies to adopt sustainable practices and 
integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycleWe have set absolute targets for reduction of our carbon emissions, 
water consumption and waste generation and are actively taking 
steps to meet them .
Through participation in CDP, we are transparent in reporting our 
environmental impacts .
13 .1  Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to  
climate-related hazards and natural disasters in  
all countriesAs a provider of medicines that patients rely on, we anticipate  
and mitigate climate-related risks that could impact our continuity  
of supply  .
We also support disaster relief partners to help to strengthen 
community resilience and recovery from climate-related hazards .
2019 Responsible Action Report  7
In this section:
We invest in research to make 
innovative medicines that offer real 
patient benefit
We maintain high standards of ethics, 
safety and quality
We advance patient, family and 
caregiver well-being through 
education and supportPatients are the reason we come to work every day  . They are at the heart of  
our guiding Principle of transforming lives .
Science and innovation are the cornerstones of our business . We focus on 
discovering, developing and delivering medicines for challenging diseases  
where we have expertise and can make a real impact for patients .
To do this, we must ensure that we deliver medicines reliably, with quality and 
safety patients can trust  . We must act with integrity to maintain that trust  .
We also understand that making a remarkable impact for patients takes more  
than medicine . That’s why we provide broader patient and family support, 
contribute research and funding to public health initiatives and support 
independent medical education .Making a remarkable impact  
for patients
8  2019 Responsible Action Report
Building new understanding and finding genuinely novel 
solutions is critical to our mission . Our vision is to help create 
transformative change, not just incremental improvement  . For 
autoimmune diseases, that means aiming for remission, not just 
the management of symptoms . For cancer, it means finding ways 
for patients to achieve better and longer-lasting treatment results .  
In neuroscience, it means continuing to pursue ways to slow,  
halt and ultimately reverse the damage of debilitating conditions 
such as Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s diseases .
Developing innovative medicines requires extensive investment 
in the high-risk process of research and development  . Our 
Development Design Center is a Center of Excellence that 
integrates tailored expertise, predictive analytics and machine 
learning to deliver innovative, efficient and quality clinical trial 
approaches aimed at broadening study populations, accelerating 
recruitment, reducing cost and improving the patient experience .We know that the true value of a medicine is in the difference 
it makes in a patient’s everyday life . We are investing in new 
ways to bring a patient focus into the lab and the clinic as we 
develop innovative treatments . This means using patient input 
to understand what outcomes really matter and pioneering new 
methods to measure them in accurate and relevant ways .
We understand that our research, expertise and medicines can 
make a real impact on public health and disease management  . 
We continue to conduct research to help improve screening, 
diagnosis and disease management in our therapeutic areas  
of focus .
We maintain a pro bono research program where AbbVie 
researchers and development experts donate paid work time 
to collaborations with global health partners to address unmet 
needs and public health issues, particularly those affecting 
people in low- and middle-income countries . We also offer our 
expertise to help build health system capabilities where they  
are needed .We invest in research to make innovative medicines 
that offer real patient benefit  .Commitment: Use our expertise to improve health
2019 Responsible Action Report  9
We achieved nine new product approvals or indication 
expansions from major regulatory agencies during the year. 
These included approval of new treatments for rheumatoid 
arthritis and moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis as well as 
new treatments for previously untreated chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia . Many of our late-stage candidates have been granted 
regulatory designations to expedite development or review,  
with recognition of their potential to address unmet needs .  
Four additional programs received such designations in 2019 .
In 2019, we expanded our early-stage research portfolio 
through internal discovery, new and expanded research 
collaborations and smaller acquisitions. With the acquisition 
of Mavupharma, an expanded collaboration with Harpoon 
Therapeutics, a strategic collaboration with Tizona and a 
licensing agreement with Teneobio, we enhanced our portfolio  
of immuno-oncology platforms and clinical-stage assets . We also 
broadened our research collaboration with Scripps Research to 
include projects in oncology, immunology, neurology and fibrosis .
Three significant research collaborations achieved key 
milestones in 2019. ABBV-4083, an investigational compound 
that AbbVie is co-developing with Drugs for Neglected Diseases 
initiative (DNDi), had a successful End of Phase 1 meeting with 
the FDA  . The project is a part of our pro bono research program, 
where more than 330 researchers and development experts 
contributed over 20,000 hours in 2019 . A Phase 2 study in 
patients with river blindness will be conducted by DNDi with  
drug product and pro bono technical support from AbbVie .
Our collaboration with Calico, the Alphabet-backed life sciences 
company focused on aging-related research and therapeutics, 
saw the identification of the first two clinical candidates from the 
partnership . These compounds – one in oncology and one in 
neuroscience – will enter clinical trials in 2020 .
We also announced the identification of the first several 
potential drug targets in our research collaboration with Mission 
Therapeutics on neurodegenerative diseases . In recognition of 
its significance and impact, the collaboration between Mission 
and AbbVie was shortlisted for Scrip’s 2019 Best Partnership 
Alliance Award ." The best way to develop transformational 
medicines is through collaborations that 
bring together the brightest minds . This 
partnership with Scripps Research will 
collaboratively advance next-generation 
programs, build stronger relationships with 
proven and emerging scientific leaders 
and, most importantly, help us advance 
novel medicines for patients . ”Our progress
We invested $5 billion in research and development in  
2019, continuing to focus on areas of very high need and 
potential impact:
–  Mohit Trikha, Ph .D  ., 
Vice President and 
Head of Oncology Early 
Development, AbbVieInvesting in novel solutions also requires us to be 
courageous in the face of tough decisions and to learn  
from setbacks that are inevitable in the scientific process. 
In 2019, we discontinued clinical development for some of  
our antibody-drug conjugates, most notably Rova-T and  
ABT-414, but have taken from this research key learnings  
that have helped to refocus our efforts on other proprietary 
antibody-drug conjugates .
Beyond moving compounds through the pipeline, we also 
helped to advance development science. Throughout 2019, 
our teams worked closely with the FDA and other regulatory 
agencies to define and realize the opportunities real-world 
evidence (RWE) offers for better medical care . AbbVie is also 
actively involved in a public-private research partnership with the 
Duke-Margolis Center for Health Policy, which published multiple 
papers exploring practical aspects of using real-world data in 
regulatory decision-making during the past year  .$5B in R&D
Immunology Neur oscienc eOncolo gy
10  2019 Responsible Action Report
Working closely with regulators, we piloted the use of 
observational data and machine learning to improve the 
efficiency of drug development. For example, using advanced 
analysis methods to characterize existing data, our researchers 
were able to reduce the size of control groups for two clinical 
studies by half, supplemented by information already learned 
about control performance .
We continued to advance our efforts to measure the 
practical treatment outcomes that matter most in patients’ 
everyday lives. Drug development often relies on data collected 
at pre-determined intervals using site-visit observations and 
retrospective patient surveys . The challenge is that not all relevant 
patient outcomes can be effectively measured using these 
techniques . To address these challenges, we have been building 
our knowledge and experience with the use of wearable digital 
tools to collect data from patients, both in the controlled trial 
setting and in the real-world setting . These tools provide objective 
measurement and remove the error associated with methods that 
rely on patient recall .AbbVie researchers made important contributions to the 
effort to eliminate hepatitis C (HCV). The World Health 
Organization (WHO) has set a target to eliminate HCV by 2030, 
and AbbVie is committed to supporting that vision . Developing 
an effective strategy to eliminate a disease means knowing 
where affected patients are located and understanding the 
characteristics of those populations . AbbVie is using digital 
innovation to create the most comprehensive epidemiology 
resource available to those involved in developing and executing 
local strategies to eliminate HCV in the United States . We have 
integrated screening laboratory data from two large laboratory 
companies and applied machine learning techniques to fill 
gaps in the data . The result is a resource  that states can use to 
evaluate progress toward elimination and adapt their strategies 
accordingly  .
In 2019, we also formalized a collaboration with the Coalition 
for Global Hepatitis Elimination to support the development of 
tools and resources to track and advance progress toward HCV 
elimination around the world . AbbVie is supporting this work by 
providing key data insights, analyses and expertise around HCV 
burden and the path to elimination . View the Coalition’s work here .
Some real-world questions about the patient experience, such as optimal sequencing of newer 
treatments, cannot be answered through a regular clinical trial . AbbVie has partnered with Memorial 
Sloan Kettering Hospital and 25 investigators from leading institutions around the world on the Chronic 
Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) Collaborative Study of Real-World Evidence (CORE) . It represents the 
largest cohort data to date on treatment sequencing in CLL  .
AbbVie is a partner in the HARMONY Alliance, a public-private network designed to gather and analyze 
big data to uncover opportunities to speed the development of new treatments and more effective 
treatment strategies for patients with blood cancers . In 2019, the Alliance hit a key milestone, identifying 
data records for over 45,000 patients across Europe with blood cancer, hosted on a data platform that’s 
one of the largest of its kind in the world .Health outcomes research collaborations advancing patient care
2019 Responsible Action Report  11
Because we know that achieving lasting health impact takes 
more than medicine, we continued to provide broad patient 
support, to enable the best possible health outcomes.  
In the U  .S ., our support programs help patients more fully 
understand their disease and the treatment they have been 
prescribed . Through these programs, we offer one-to-one 
education and support through personalized interactions, 
help patients adjust to the use of their medicine and, in some 
programs, provide lifestyle management support to further 
promote health .Outside the U  .S ., our AbbVie Care program includes a wide  
range of disease- and country-specific patient programs that 
provide meaningful, informative and empowering support to 
patients who have been prescribed AbbVie medicines . These 
programs are tailored to the needs and regulations in each 
country and patient community  .
AbbVie personnel do not give medical advice and are trained  
to direct patients to their health care professional for any 
treatment-related questions .
Investment and Innovation 2016 2017 2018 2019
Research and development investment (adjusted) $4 .15B $4 .83B $5 .09B $4 .98B
New product or indication approvals including indication expansions 9 7 9 9
Number of programs granted a designation by at least one major regulatory 
authority to expedite development or review5 9 5 4
Percent of compounds in clinical development with a novel mechanism of action 67% 67% 72% 72%
Research hours donated to neglected tropical diseases, malaria and tuberculosis 21,583 30,006 39,945 20,621Key performance indicators
12  2019 Responsible Action Report
Ethics
In order to make a positive long-term impact for patients, we  
must earn and maintain their trust by acting with integrity in 
everything we do . Through our Code of Business Conduct  
and our Supplier Code of Conduct, we set clear expectations  
for appropriate behavior  .
Our Code of Business Conduct 
applies to all employees globally 
and is available in 31 languages . 
Each year, all employees are 
required to complete training on 
the Code and certify that they will 
adhere to it  .
We support our employees in upholding these expectations 
through additional policies and procedures, a robust training 
program, monitoring and auditing and a well-publicized 
disclosure program .
Our policies and procedures are designed to help ensure 
adherence to relevant laws and industry codes, including the 
U .S . Anti-Kickback Statute, U  .S . Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act, U  .S . Physician Payments Sunshine Act, General Data 
Protection Regulation, EFPIA Code on Disclosure to Healthcare 
Professionals and Healthcare Organizations, IFPMA Code and 
PhRMA Code on Interactions with Health Care Professionals .We maintain high standards of ethics, safety  
and quality  .Commitment: Steward our ethical and sustainable business
Research is foundational to our work  . To have a lasting positive 
impact, we must conduct our research ethically, beginning in  
the lab and extending to the clinic .
While animal testing is required by law for the development 
of new medicines, we consistently apply the internationally 
accepted “3Rs” principles . This means that we seek to reduce 
the number of animals required to achieve research objectives 
when possible; replace animal studies with non-animal or 
sentient alternatives; and if animals must be studied, refine  
our practices to minimize any potential for pain and/or distress . 
Our Commitment to Humane Care and Use of Animals outlines 
our approach .
Safety
Every year, tens of thousands of patients worldwide participate in 
clinical trials of potential AbbVie medicines . It’s because of these 
clinical trial participants that we can eventually bring medicines 
to many more patients . Their safety is our first priority  .
We require all AbbVie clinical studies to be conducted in a 
manner consistent with the ethical principles outlined in the 
World Medical Association’s Declaration of Helsinki, and 
to adhere to applicable standards set by the International 
Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use . This includes adherence to 
Good Clinical Practice, Good Laboratory Practice and Good 
Manufacturing Practice standards .
Once our medicines are approved and marketed, we maintain 
a robust pharmacovigilance program . Our safety team of 
physicians and scientists are recognized experts both within 
2019 Responsible Action Report  13
and beyond the company, actively advancing the field in 
collaboration with academic scientists, health authorities and 
industry peers . Our integrated, multi-disciplinary approach and 
advanced technology are designed to identify potential safety 
signals early and minimize risk  . We routinely achieve over 98 
percent on-time expedited reporting of adverse events to FDA 
and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) .
Quality
We have robust systems in place to ensure the medicines  
we manufacture are high quality and available when patients  
need them . Our Quality Council oversees our quality strategy 
and is accountable directly to our CEO  . Highly skilled and 
experienced teams oversee every aspect of our manufacturing 
processes, from the suppliers who provide the inputs to the 
product delivered .
We use an integrated enterprise quality management system 
that complies with applicable standards from the International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO), the International 
Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use and regulatory authorities .  
We use both internal and external audits to ensure ongoing 
product quality  .
Though we produce many of the most critical components of 
our products in-house, we also purchase inputs from thousands 
of suppliers across the globe . From among these, we identify 
our most critical suppliers . This classification is based on many 
criteria, but the potential impact of a supplier issue on product 
efficacy, safety, availability or patient experience is paramount  . 
For our most critical suppliers, we require strong controls and 
close involvement of AbbVie experts, including regular in-person 
and remote audits . Further, we continuously monitor the evolving 
legal and regulatory landscape to ensure that the chemicals, 
mixtures and commodities in our products, including purchased 
inputs, are compliant with applicable regulations .Our global operations are subject to a wide range of risks that 
have potential to impact the continuity of our business, the supply 
of medicine for the patients who rely on them and our employees . 
Within Global Security, our Crisis Management function 
works across the enterprise to help ensure preparedness for 
and resilience to these risks . These risks include, but are not 
limited to, natural disasters, cyberattacks, security breaches 
and product-related issues such as supply chain interruptions, 
counterfeiting and diversion .
Counterfeiting and diversion of medicines pose risks to patient 
health and safety  . Our Global Anti-Counterfeiting Steering 
Committee is responsible for identifying and mitigating these 
risks related to AbbVie medicines . They coordinate proactive 
strategies for preventing counterfeiting and diversion of our 
medicines and conduct routine monitoring to identify signals of 
possible counterfeiting or diversion . Our measures include visible 
and invisible product features to verify authenticity, multiple and 
overlapping product tracking methods from origin to destination 
and close partnership with local law enforcement authorities 
around the world .
We also take strong proactive measures to maintain the security 
of our supply chain . A secure supply chain helps to ensure not 
only quality but also a faster and more efficient process to reach 
customers and patients . To ensure the security of our materials 
as they move across borders, we participate in the Trusted Trader 
programs run by the U  .S ., E . U . and other customs authorities . 
Through these programs, U  .S . Customs and Border Protection, 
E .U . customs authorities, as well as additional countries’ customs 
authorities inspect and certify our security measures . The 
primary sources for AbbVie of finished commercial products are 
received by locations in Trusted Trader programs .
14  2019 Responsible Action Report
Our progress
Ethics
Our commitment to ethics and integrity remained a  
focus of sustained efforts. To complement our Principle 
of acting with integrity, we launched a Leading with Integrity 
communications campaign . People who manage others set  
the day-to-day expectations for our employees and provide the 
most visible example of our culture . The campaign reinforced  
our fundamental belief that a culture of integrity is essential to 
strong business performance because it supports high levels  
of quality, compliance and safety, builds trust and underpins 
strong partnerships .
In 2019, as in past years, all employees received AbbVie’s  
annual training on our Code of Business Conduct, and 
employees in relevant functions received mandatory training  
on topics such as anti-corruption and anti-bribery, conflicts 
of interest, recognizing and reporting safety information, 
appropriate product promotion and appropriate interactions 
with health care providers and patient groups . Our compliance 
training is continually reviewed and updated as the environment 
and our business evolves to ensure employees are receiving the 
most relevant and timely information on these important topics .
In recognition of our transparency regarding political activities 
and donations, in 2019 we were again named to the Center for 
Political Accountability’s list of “trendsetters” — the highest 
scoring tier — in their annual CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate 
Political Disclosure and Accountability .The Global Animal Welfare and Comparative Medicine 
programs implemented a new training program in 2019  
to further enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of  
our staff. These training improvements have enabled broader 
support for our animal programs . We continued to welcome 
employee volunteers in our canine enrichment program . 
Volunteers provide socialization, outdoor exercise, enrichment 
and pre-adoption acclimation for our research animals .
Two of our research sites underwent re-accreditation with 
AAALAC International, a private, nonprofit organization that 
promotes the humane treatment of animals in science through 
voluntary accreditation and assessment programs . As a result  
of this process, both our Massachusetts- and Illinois-based sites 
were granted “exemplary status” by this respected third party  . 
Exemplary status is shared by only 2 percent of the AAALAC 
accredited units worldwide .
Our research teams continued to advance the 3Rs (reduce, 
replace, refine) for ethical treatment of animals. Through our 
3Rs Impact Award Program, scientists who adopt and implement 
the 3Rs are acknowledged for their efforts . In 2019, 40 research 
teams were recognized for using advanced technologies, 
improved modeling and in vitro platforms to reduce the number 
of animals required and, where appropriate, replacing animal use .
2019 Responsible Action Report  15
Safety
Our Pharmacovigilance and Patient Safety teams advanced  
a key initiative to use large observational data sets to 
advance our post-marketing safety capabilities. By gathering 
and integrating large sets of observational data in the therapeutic 
areas and patient populations where our medicines are used,  
we are proactively building contextual knowledge to help us 
rapidly evaluate adverse event reports, respond to stakeholder 
questions quickly with high quality evidence and support 
improved decision-making for the health and safety of patients .
We launched AbbVie’s first machine learning robot designed 
for use in a regulated setting. Nicknamed “Q,” this virtual digital 
worker represents a significant advancement in our ongoing 
efforts to use automation to increase efficiency  . The development 
and training of “bots” like Q is part of our strategy to proactively 
build internal knowledge and capabilities in this emerging space . 
As technical validation standards emerge over the coming years, 
we aim to be prepared to engage productively with regulators 
and to help advance the use of these techniques across the 
industry, for the benefit of patients .We continued to advance the knowledge, skills and 
effectiveness of our safety teams, from those working 
on the drug development process to those interacting 
with patients. For example, drug-induced liver injury (DILI) 
remains an issue of concern for patients and providers and the 
pharmaceutical industry  . In 2019, our internal safety advisory 
groups hosted an educational forum for approximately 300 
AbbVie R&D employees, led by four world-renowned expert 
hepatologists . The discussion focused on prediction, prevention 
and management of DILI and will help our teams collect the  
right data at the right intervals to better recognize DILI as a  
safety signal .
We are also using learnings and tools from behavioral 
science to enhance the ways we teach patients to use  
our medicines, with the goal of reducing medication 
errors and improving adherence. This year, we began to 
systematically incorporate the use of teach-back, an established 
health literacy technique, into our interactions with patients 
using our injectable medicines . Teach-back helps us to better 
understand how patients interpret the information we give them, 
which in turn allows us to further adapt our communications to 
address patient needs .
Drawing on insights from data science, patient 
safety and human behavior, Q was developed 
through a collaboration between our safety 
team, our business technology team and 
students at the AbbVie Innovation Center at 
the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.
16  2019 Responsible Action Report
Quality
To ensure quality and regulatory compliance, AbbVie 
manufacturing sites received dozens of external inspections 
and audits. Most were from major regulatory health authorities 
such as the U  .S . FDA, the European Medicines Agency and the 
Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency  . None 
of these audits had findings resulting in production stoppages .
We conducted our own quality assessments and audits of 
our most critical suppliers to ensure they are upholding 
our quality standards. The frequency and method of supplier 
quality assessment is based on a detailed risk evaluation as 
specified in our supplier quality policies and procedures . In  
2019, we conducted in-depth quality assessments of 491 
supplier sites . We remained focused on those sites with the 
greatest potential to impact product efficacy and safety, aiming  
to assess each of these in-depth at least once every three 
years . In the three-year period ending December 31, 2019, we 
conducted detailed assessments of more than 95 percent of 
these sites at least once—some more frequently—with the 
majority of these assessments taking place in-person .Our goal is to have no backordered medicines, as 
backorders can cause treatment interruptions and impact 
patient outcomes. We maintained a consistent supply to meet 
demand at nearly all times . In 2019, backorders comprised fewer 
than 0 .01 percent of the total orders we filled . Our assurance of 
supply program is designed to help us maintain supply even in 
unpredictable circumstances, such as natural disasters or surges 
in demand . We identify and qualify backup suppliers, scan the 
environment for potential risks and plan for alternate scenarios .
In 2019, we implemented serialization of our medicines  
in Europe, in accordance with the E.U. Falsified Medicines 
Directive. We also optimized our global supply chain security  
and product protection system, which will allow us to 
continuously adapt to an increasingly complex supply  
chain landscape .
We expanded internal and external training on 
counterfeiting- and diversion-related risks and protocols. 
More than 380 AbbVie employees were educated and trained  
on topics such as the social and health risks of counterfeiting 
and diversion, common illicit trade practices and security 
protocols . We also trained more than 1,600 health care providers 
and law enforcement officials in higher-risk geographies on 
challenges and impacts associated with diverted and/or 
counterfeit medicines .
Ethics, Compliance, Safety and Quality 2016 2017 2018 2019
Number of employees certifying on the AbbVie Code of Business Conduct* 28,580 28,906 29,595 29,160
Number of regulatory inspections of AbbVie commercial manufacturing facilities 41 52 37 27
Rate of expedited adverse event reporting to EMA >98% >98% >98% >98%
Backorders as percentage of total orders <0 .01% <0 .01% <0 .01% <0 .01%
Number of supplier sites assessed in-depth for quality 488 540 474 491
Percentage of supplier sites with greatest impact on product quality and safety 
assessed in-depth†32% 41% 41% 48%
* This figure fluctuates with the workforce .
† Some sites not assessed during the four-year period are new and still within the required audit window  .Key performance indicators2019 Responsible Action Report  17
We advance patient, family and caregiver well-being 
through education and support  .Commitment: Support long-term community strength
Patients look to their families, caregivers and communities to play 
a pivotal role during their health journey  . We want to help ensure 
they can receive broad care and support when it’s needed most  .
We support educational programs that equip patients with the 
knowledge and resources to understand their diseases . These 
programs help make connections with patient organizations, 
patient support activities, online programs and educational 
materials where they can learn more about their diseases and  
how to engage with other patients .
Each patient has a unique journey  . The nonprofit organizations 
we support provide patients, loved ones and caregivers with 
necessary information and tools to manage their diseases .  
These resources empower them to be active participants in  
their health journeys . Some of the nonprofit organizations 
providing impactful programming include the National 
Parkinson’s Foundation, Arthritis Foundation, PACKHealth, 
Leukemia Research Foundation and CancerCare .
We understand that the health care conditions we treat don’t 
define the patients we serve . AbbVie offers scholarships to help 
patients reach their educational goals:
• AbbVie’s Cystic Fibrosis Scholarships provide financial 
support to young adults with cystic fibrosis as they pursue 
undergraduate and graduate degrees in the United States . 
The program has awarded over $3 .3 million in scholarships  
in its history of more than 25 years .• Additionally, the U.S. Immunology Scholarship aims to 
empower exceptional students living with inflammatory 
diseases to pursue an independent life through their 
unyielding determination . Since its inception in 2016, the 
program has awarded more than 100 scholarships to students 
living with immune-mediated conditions .
Science and medicine are constantly changing . Patients trust 
that their health care team is equipped with the latest information 
and resources to make the best choices for their treatment and 
help them navigate through it  . AbbVie’s support of independent 
scientific and medical education programs offers unbiased 
continuing education for experienced health care providers and 
scientists on current, new and emerging science .
We also provide funding for fellowships that allow health care 
providers who are new to their fields to continue their training 
and increase their experience and knowledge in their specialties 
of interest  . Our hope is to close the gap in under-resourced fields 
by providing opportunities for the next generation of providers .
18  2019 Responsible Action Report
Our progress
In 2019, we continued our support for unique and innovative 
educational programs for both patients and providers.  
We reached more than 415,000 patients through independent 
patient education grants and more than 580,000 health care 
providers through independent medical education grants . Some 
examples of programs we supported include:
• A program to encourage young physicians to explore their 
interest and opportunities in the field of rheumatology
• An educational award-winning program in inflammatory 
bowel disease that improved patient outcomes by addressing 
specific unmet educational needs in gastroenterology
• A digital health coaching program that helps patients live  
well with their disease• Education in the hepatitis C community that breaks down 
barriers and moves the world closer toward elimination
• An initiative involving cancer patients, caregivers and health 
care providers working together to determine a customized 
treatment plan
Additionally, AbbVie was proud of the progress our partners 
made to help families thrive by providing family-centered 
care, using AbbVie’s significant charitable donations.  
We provided financial support to nonprofit partners addressing 
challenges that directly affect a family’s emotional, psychological 
and financial well-being during a child’s illness .
In 2018, AbbVie made a historic donation to Ronald  
McDonald House Charities (RMHC) to help provide families 
the comforts of a “home away from home” while their child  
is hospitalized . In 2019, this support helped RMHC to offer 
new family-centered services to connect with communities  
at an additional 32 chapters . Essential social support services 
provided at RMHC Houses ensure the entire family – from  
child patients to parents to siblings – is cared for and 
comfortable, allowing the family to focus on healing  
and wellness .
In Mexico, the AbbVie Foundation is supporting Direct 
Relief’s Pediatric Cancer Family Support Program to address 
barriers, including non-medical challenges to pediatric 
cancer care . Direct Relief and local organization Casa de la 
Amistad (CDLA), or “House of Friends,” help families navigate 
their child’s cancer care, providing psychosocial support, patient advocacy, transportation, lodging and more . CDLA 
also supports patients’ continued education, offering on-site 
classes for younger children and subsidizing transportation  
to and from school for older students who remain able 
to attend classes . Patients receiving CDLA support have 
demonstrated improved adherence and decreased mortality 
rates, nearly 50 percent lower than the national average . In 
2019, the program’s fourth year, CDLA supported 613 children 
fighting cancer and their families and caregivers .
AbbVie’s $5 million donation in 2018 enabled Family Reach, 
a national organization dedicated to eradicating financial 
barriers for families facing cancer, to serve 25 additional 
hospitals in 23 states . This expansion helped more than  
2,900 additional families in immediate need .Bolstering Partners to Support Sick Children and Their Families
“ Even in the most difficult moments …  
we had our family at Casa de la  
Amistad for emotional support  .”
 –  Natali, mother to six-year old CDLA resident Leonardo“ AbbVie’s unwavering support has  
been game changing for the cancer 
care community  .”
 –  Joan Russo, Vice President of Development,  
Family Reach
Photo Credit: Direct Relief
2019 Responsible Action Report  19
Building and supporting a diverse, 
high-performing workforce
In this section:
We promote a diverse, inclusive 
workplace and invest in capability 
development to drive innovation
We protect human rights and 
workplace safety
We offer our people the resources 
and support they need to be at their 
personal best every dayFor an innovation-driven company like AbbVie, the knowledge, ideas and 
capabilities that employees bring are critical . We’re focused on attracting, 
retaining, developing and supporting the people who, working together, can 
advance our mission .
Embracing equality, diversity and inclusion (ED&I) is fundamental at AbbVie . 
We know that the best ideas can come from anywhere in the organization, so 
employees must be comfortable sharing their perspectives and challenging 
each other  .
To maximize the performance of individuals and teams, we must help them 
build the capabilities that are most critical to our mission and success . We 
must also treat them with respect, provide a safe environment and support 
their well-being .20  2019 Responsible Action Report
Evidence shows that equality, diversity and inclusion (ED&I)  
in the workplace help to drive superior business performance . 
We embrace diverse backgrounds and perspectives and treat 
everyone equally, with dignity and respect, allowing us all to 
achieve our collective best  .
Our CEO and executive leadership team oversee and take 
accountability for our ED&I strategy, actions, measurements  
and results .
Activating this strategy helps us innovate, understand our 
customers and attract and retain the best talent  . We proactively 
engage talent from diverse backgrounds . A range of global 
programs ensures we attract and hire a diverse workforce, 
including women, people from all backgrounds and ethnicities 
and people with disabilities .
To support our diverse workforce, we must create an  
environment where all individuals can thrive . This means 
educating and engaging employees and leaders about inclusion . 
Our functional ED&I Councils and Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs) promote awareness and appreciation of our diversity, 
ensuring people of all backgrounds can develop and thrive .
At AbbVie, our Talent Philosophy is the foundation of all that 
we do to drive performance . There are five elements that guide 
our thinking about talent and leading at AbbVie: Performance, 
Behaviors, Differentiation, Accountability and Transparency  . Top 
talent is defined as employees who demonstrate all of these 
elements consistently over time .We provide resources for the learning and development of all 
employees . Our year-long signature global program, Learn .
Develop .Perform . (LDP), utilizes webinars, online tools and 
mobile resources to help close development gaps and identify 
the skills our leaders need . In 2019, more than 70 percent of 
global employees regularly engaged with LDP resources .
In addition, functional organizations have dedicated learning  
and development teams that provide training on function-specific 
knowledge and skills .
Our diverse and committed employees contribute in many ways 
to the economic and cultural vitality of their communities . We 
create business opportunity for thousands of suppliers in more 
than 131 countries and all U  .S . States, the District of Columbia 
and Puerto Rico . Since 2016, we have conducted more than 
130 detailed assessments of labor, health and safety in North 
America . Our Supplier Diversity program is designed to integrate 
small and diverse businesses into our supply chain . We offer 
opportunities for historically underutilized populations, including 
underrepresented populations, women, military veterans and 
others, to do business with AbbVie .Commitment: Use our expertise to improve health
We promote a diverse, inclusive workplace and 
invest in capability development to drive innovation .
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)2019 Responsible Action Report  21
In 2019, we implemented our new global ED&I strategy 
across the organization. This includes a five-year roadmap that 
defines key global focus areas, objectives, associated initiatives 
and implementation plans by function and geography  . Our senior 
leaders have taken formal 2020 goals aligned with executing  
this strategy  .
To help drive awareness and understanding, we 
implemented key initiatives. We held small group  
listening sessions where employees had the opportunity to  
listen to ED&I strategies and offer valuable feedback and ideas .  
In the U  .S ., we added Martin Luther King Jr  . Day as a paid 
company holiday  . Across the globe, we exhibited our belief 
that “Love is Love” by raising the Pride flag at multiple AbbVie 
locations . We were proud to host multiple cultural celebrations  
for Black History Month, Women’s Equality Day, Hispanic 
Heritage Month, Diwali, Kwanzaa, Veterans Day and more .We continued to create connections and a sense of 
community through our ERGs. AbbVie was proud to  
introduce a new ERG, Ability at AbbVie, to support employees 
with disabilities, employees who have children with disabilities, 
caregivers and allies .Our progress
ED&I Strategic Pillars
Drive Awareness  
& Understanding
Instilling an inclusive 
mindset in all leaders 
and employeesAttract & Source 
Talent
Proactively finding and 
engaging top talentDevelop & Engage 
Talent
Creating opportunities 
for talent to thriveCreate Connections  
& Community
Bringing people 
together to promote 
inclusionBuild ED&I  
Employer Brand
Positioning AbbVie as 
an inclusive employer 
of choice
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 2016 2017 2018 2019
Total employees 28,939 29,777 30,612 30,776
Female share of total workforce 52 .9% 53 .4% 53 .2% 53 .3%
Females in management positions 44 .7% 46 .9% 47 .1% 48 .0%
Females in top management positions (up to CEO -2) 35 .0% 37 .9% 34 .8% 34 .6%
Females on the Board of Directors 1/9 2/10 3/11 3/11
Proportion of U  .S . employees who are members of 
underrepresented populations*   – 30 .1% 31 .4% 32 .0%
Proportion of U  .S . employees who are veterans* 3 .2% 3 .4% 3 .8% 3 .8%
Proportion of U  .S . employees who have disabilities* 0 .9% 1 .2% 1 .2% 1 .2%
Except for total employees, figures exclude Pharmacyclics .  *These figures are based on employee self-reporting .“ At AbbVie we strive to create an 
inclusive culture where everyone is 
treated equally, with dignity and respect  . 
When our employees embrace diverse 
backgrounds and perspective, we are  
all able to achieve our very best  .”
 –  Julie Osborne, VP, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Key performance indicators
Expanded ED&I team22  2019 Responsible Action Report
In 2019, we focused on attracting and sourcing talent by 
launching formal partnerships with two historically black 
colleges and universities, Howard University and Florida A&M . 
We also provided emerging student leaders with opportunities 
for career development, mentoring support and to be immersed 
in our AbbVie culture .
We continued to develop and engage our talent through 
initiatives such as our global Women’s Leadership Journey, 
which provides a broader awareness of and exposure to the skills 
and perspectives needed to excel into senior roles . Since its 
launch in 2018, 72 women have completed the program, with  
37 percent representation from multicultural women .
Our Executive Diversity Mentoring Program (EDMP) aligns 
diverse key talent with our top 34 executive leaders for 
a one-year partnership. In its fifth year, women comprised 
58 percent of U  .S . EDMP participants, and 33 percent were 
multicultural women . In 2019, 25 percent of EDMP mentees  
were promoted .
In 2019, we purchased goods and services valued at  
more than $13.8 billion from suppliers around the world.  
This included more than $930 million from approximately  
2,000 small and diverse businesses in North America,  
including Puerto Rico . Our Environmental, Health and Safety 
team, in partnership with our office of Supplier Diversity,  
offers support to small and diverse suppliers with pro bono 
services including environmental, health and safety (EHS)  
audits and sustainability training . Other supplier development 
activities consist of annual mentoring on a variety of topics  
by our experienced teams . .In 2019, AbbVie was named Corporation of the Year by 
Diversity Alliance for Science, in recognition of our ongoing 
commitment to mentorship and development of small and 
diverse suppliers .Talent Attraction, Retention & Development 2016 2017 2018 2019
Overall turnover rate 9 .2% 8 .4% 8 .6% 11 .1%
Voluntary turnover rate 5 .9% 5 .3% 5 .5% 6 .6%
Employee engagement rate* 81% — 84% —
Percent of employees who indicate that AbbVie equips them  
well to perform in their role*76% — 79% —
*Source: Employee Survey, which is conducted every two years . Percentage favorable responses (“agree” or “strongly agree”) to the following questions:
• I have the tools and resources to do my job well .
• I have opportunities to learn new skills that help me succeed .
Supplier Spend and Diversity 2016 2017 2018 2019
Total supplier spend (worldwide) $8 .2B $9 .7B $13 .3B $13 .8B
Total spend with small and diverse suppliers (millions) $516 $741 $894 $934Key performance indicators
Key performance indicators
2019 Responsible Action Report  23
Many teams across affiliates are introducing flexible work policies to accommodate the personal needs of employees . AbbVie 
Japan has introduced an “Anytime, Anywhere” policy to increase flexibility for employees needing to care for family members .
Japan: Increasing workplace flexibility to support families
Takashi Nishimura took 
paternity leave, which is  
very uncommon in Japan, 
and was able not only to 
provide childcare for his 
young son, but also to shift 
the image of paternity leave 
in his community  .Fumiyo Aoki was able to care 
for her aging parents who 
live far from Tokyo . With the 
support of her manager and 
team, Fumiyo was given the 
time and space needed to 
provide for their needs at a 
critical time .As part of our commitment to ED&I, AbbVie affiliates around the world are implementing programs that resonate with their 
unique cultures and employee needs .
Disability manifests in many forms, some not as readily  
visible as others . We recognize that an environment where  
all voices are heard and valued is vital to employees’ ability  
to bring their best selves to work  .In Brazil, the recently launched Equality, Diversity & 
Inclusion Committee sponsors events throughout the year 
to celebrate disability awareness, raising the voices of those 
with disabilities and striving to normalize their experience . 
People managers have undergone training to disrupt bias 
that can stigmatize people with disabilities .Embracing Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Around the World
Brazil and Ireland: Committing to inclusion for all people with disabilities
“ No one should feel like they can’t 
ask for the help if they need it, 
because at AbbVie they believe 
in supporting you to perform to 
the best of your ability and will 
support you on your journey  .” –  Jade Bradley, AbbVie employee in 
Ballytivnan, Sligo, Ireland . Jade has 
dyslexia and requested specific 
software to support her work  . The 
software was quickly added to our 
resource library and is now available  
for all employees .
Research shows mental health is one of Australia’s greatest 
workplace challenges . In late 2018, AbbVie conducted 
research, using both surveys and focus groups, to better 
understand the well-being of our workforce . The results 
showed that few staff felt comfortable talking about their 
mental well-being with colleagues, and that there was an 
immediate need to destigmatize issues around mental health .In February 2019, AbbVie Australia and New Zealand 
launched a new mental health strategy  . A key part of the 
program focused on providing employees with training, tools 
and tactics to improve their mental health, help manage 
stress and help employees better facilitate open and honest 
conversations about mental health in the workplace . A  
follow-up survey has demonstrated that this new mental 
health strategy has given many more employees the 
confidence to speak openly about their mental health .Australia and New Zealand: Raising awareness for mental health in the workplace
24  2019 Responsible Action Report
We recognize that we are part of a broader ecosystem of 
partners and collaborators . The lives of our employees and 
the lives of those we touch through our work at AbbVie are the 
most important part of our business and we are committed to 
protecting their fundamental human rights . We believe in the 
inherent dignity of every human being . We uphold and respect 
individual rights as set out in the Universal Declaration of  
Human Rights, focusing on preventing, mitigating and remedying 
any adverse human rights impacts across our value chain . Our 
Commitment to Human Rights describes the ways in which 
we ensure respect for all people, including our employees, 
contractors, suppliers and patients .
Ensuring the safety of our employees across our workplaces 
is one of our cornerstone commitments to human rights . 
We provide comprehensive workplace safety training for all 
employees, as appropriate for their environment  . Our guiding 
philosophy is called Zero . Believe It  . Achieve It  ., which reflects the 
core belief that every environmental, health and safety incident is 
preventable if each employee adopts a preventative mindset  .
We also obtain external certifications for workplace safety  . All 
of our manufacturing sites are certified to the international 
standards for safety associated with OHSAS-18001 (three sites) 
or ISO 450001 (nine sites) . All OHSAS-18001 certified sites will 
move to ISO 45001 by end of 2021 .Commitment: Steward our ethical and sustainable business
We protect human rights and workplace safety  .
Our progress
In 2019, we continued to lead the industry in employee 
health and safety. Since our launch as an independent 
company, we have been the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index (DJSI) leader in occupational health and safety across 
the biotechnology industry, reflecting our commitment to 
continuously improving our best-in-class safety programs .
We demonstrated our commitment to workplace safety through 
initiatives such as the STOP Program for Frontline Supervision, 
a safety training observation program designed to reduce 
workplace injuries and illnesses through training, peer-to-peer 
support and coaching . This program aligns with our culture of 
risk anticipation and is intended to improve our detection and 
elimination of EHS incidents . To date, more than 650 supervisors 
have received training globally  .
We also continued our involvement with the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative that promotes responsible practices  
in labor, health, safety and environmental sustainability in  
supply chains .
In 2019, we updated our anti-harassment training in the U.S., 
administering new training modules for both employees and 
managers . A total of 13,865 employees received the training .
Workplace Safety 2016 2017 2018 2019
Recordable incident rate (per 200,000 hours worked)* 0 .30 0 .28 0 .27 0 .25
Lost time incident rate (per 200,000 hours worked)* 0 .10 0 .06 0 .05 0 .09
*  Data reported in 2016-2018 has been restated due to changes in classification of injury/illness cases post year  . 
Periodically, cases will change Recordability or Lost Time status based on medical case management  .Key performance indicators
2019 Responsible Action Report  25
To be effective at work, employees must also be able to meet 
their personal, family and community needs and obligations . 
That’s why we provide programs to support employee health, 
well-being and work-life balance .
Our comprehensive and competitive suite of benefits ranges 
from medical and dental coverage to retirement, disability and  
life insurance programs .
AbbVie Vitality is our approach to employee well-being . The 
program encompasses a wide range of local and global events, 
programs, resources and tools including:
• Seminars and online resources on health-related topics, such 
as stress management, nutrition, safety and work-life balance
• Health promotion programs, including for diabetes, cancer 
and weight management
• Mental health awareness campaigns and employee 
assistance programs in several countries
• Financial and well-being support, including retirement 
programs and online and in-person learning and seminars
• Heart-healthy offerings and campaigns in many company 
cafeterias• On-site health screenings and immunizations in several 
countries
• On-site fitness and rehabilitation centers
• AbbVie in Motion, a four-week global team competition 
encouraging fitness and resilience . In 2019, nearly 8,200 
employees in 59 countries participated in AbbVie in Motion, 
logging an average of 20 hours of exercise per employee over 
the course of the program .
• AbbVie World of Well-Being, a global health awareness 
program that offers activities to improve employees’ overall 
health, well-being and performance, including a variety of 
local events . Employee engagement has grown more than  
10 percent since 2018 .
We also support work-life balance and flexibility to help 
our employees sustain high performance, productivity and 
engagement  . We provide managers and their teams with tools, 
tips and guidelines on effectively managing workloads, managing 
teams from a distance and supporting flexible work practices .Commitment: Support long-term community strength
We offer our people the support they need to be at 
their personal best every day  .
26  2019 Responsible Action Report
In 2019, we continued our focus on the well-being of 
our employees and their families. We encouraged our 
employees to ask for help, whether in their personal or 
professional lives. AbbVie implemented the Family Care 
Navigator program on March 1, 2019, a customized advocacy 
program that helps U  .S . employee members navigate their 
mental health benefits with special focus on accessing pediatric 
care, including a primary contact to manage cases and provide 
patient advocacy  .
We continued our focus on mental health through an 
awareness campaign in May 2019 in alignment with  
Mental Health Awareness Month in the U.S. The goal of the 
campaign was to provide information and statistics on common 
conditions (e .g ., anxiety, depression, substance abuse disorders) 
affecting many adults and adolescents in an effort to eliminate 
the stigma and guide employees to help . We reinforced the 
availability of AbbVie and external resources, including the 
Employee Assistance Program, that employees, as well as their 
spouse/domestic partner and dependents, can use for support 
and financial assistance .We received a Gold distinction from Best Employers: 
Excellence in Health & Well-being. Awarded by the  
National Business Group on Health, this award recognizes  
the best workforce well-being programs in the U  .S ., particularly 
those with a holistic approach to well-being, encompassing 
financial, emotional, social and community aspects . It further 
recognizes a connection between employee well-being and  
key business outcomes .
We also have industry-leading parental leave policies and 
on-site daycare to support our working parents. In addition, 
all U  .S . employees are permitted to use up to two days of paid 
work time to volunteer in the community  .
In 2019, the AbbVie Employee Assistance Fund (AEAF) 
became fully operational, working to support our employees 
around the world. The AEAF funds programs that offer 
employees assistance at two pivotal moments – when a child 
goes to college and when disaster strikes . The goal of the AEAF 
is to offer resources to employees and their families when they 
need it most  .Our progress
AbbVie Possibilities Scholarship Program
The AbbVie Possibilities Scholarship is offered globally to 
children of AbbVie employees . Students may apply for an 
annual merit-based scholarship of up to $5,000 for use at 
accredited colleges, universities or vocational-technical 
schools . In the inaugural year of the program, over 300 
scholarships were awarded to children of AbbVie 
employees from 25 countries .Employee Relief Program
We know that day-to-day life can be negatively impacted by 
circumstances outside of our control . When the unexpected 
happens – a disaster or personal hardship – employees can 
access financial assistance through our Employee Relief 
Program . The program helps ensure the safety and well-being 
of our employees around the world . In its first 8 months, the 
program provided financial assistance to employees from 
over 12 countries .
“ AbbVie’s generosity reaches across 
the organization and demonstrates that 
caring for those who contribute daily is  
a core value they honor and act upon… 
As an employee, knowing that there is 
hope and support when coping with  
and managing through an unexpected 
life-event is priceless . ”
 –  U .S . field-based employeeThe AbbVie Employee Assistance Fund: First Year of Operation
“ Despite their humble lives, my parents 
achieved their dream . Now, I pursue 
mine, with my parents as inspiration . ”
 –  Scholarship Recipient, Mexico
Parents of AbbVie Possibilities Scholarship Program recipients 
2019 Responsible Action Report  27
In this section:
We give our medicines, expertise 
and funding to address the health 
needs of the underserved
We prioritize environmental 
sustainability across our business 
and supply chain
We support communities through 
economic activity, employee 
community engagement and 
philanthropyAs a biopharmaceutical company, our opportunity to make positive 
contributions to society starts with the innovative medicines we discover, 
develop and deliver  . Making them accessible to patients who need them is a 
critical part of our contribution . However, for people without reliable access to 
health care services, medicines alone aren’t enough . That’s why we support 
community-based programs that enhance access to health care more broadly  .
We also know that good health requires a healthy environment and that 
climate change will increasingly impact human health . We hold ourselves 
accountable for sustainably running our business and reducing our impact on 
the environment  .
Giving back is an integral part of who we are . We recognize that a corporation 
with global scale and unique resources has the responsibility to use those 
resources for social good . That’s why we encourage our employees to be 
engaged with their communities and support their volunteerism . And it’s why 
we provide philanthropic support to build long-term community strength .Making positive contributions  
to society
28  2019 Responsible Action Report
We give our medicines, expertise and funding  
to address the health needs of the underserved .Commitment: Use our expertise to improve health
At AbbVie, we believe patients need access to quality and 
affordable medicines . We continuously strive to improve health 
outcomes and increase access to health care services and our 
medicines for patients around the world . AbbVie partners with 
stakeholders on interventions to help build health care capacity, 
increase the quality and frequency of health worker training 
and educate patients about disease awareness, symptom 
management and treatment options .
Our approach to access is tailored on a product- and country-
specific basis . We consider a range of factors including local 
disease burden, health and economic value of the medicine, 
ability to pay and budget impact and other factors impacting 
disease-specific outcomes, as well as the sustainability of 
different access strategies for the countries’ health care system 
and our business . With these factors in mind, we utilize a 
number of strategies to address access-related issues including 
pricing and reimbursement models, patient financial assistance 
programs, intellectual property licensing, product donation and 
support for local capacity-building programs .
Our commitment to acting responsibly extends to drug pricing . 
AbbVie evaluates specific pricing decisions on an annual basis 
with careful consideration of a variety of factors . Since 2017, 
AbbVie has publicly committed to taking no more than one 
single-digit price increase .We contribute to the World Intellectual Property Organization’s 
Patent Information Initiative for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED) 
database, which is designed to help facilitate access to 
medicines globally  . The database provides patent information 
on medicines for HIV/AIDS, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, 
hepatitis C, oncology, respiratory conditions and other products 
on the WHO Essential Medicines List  .
Through our medicine donation programs, we provide medicines 
for people who would have no other means of accessing 
them . We have seven ongoing medicine donation partnerships 
with organizations providing care in low- and middle-income 
countries . We support access to surgical care by donating our 
general anesthesia treatment for use in free surgeries . We further 
donate medicines for use in disaster relief efforts and in response 
to humanitarian crises . Since 2013, we have donated medicines 
for use in over 100 countries .
We also partner with nonprofit organizations working to 
strengthen health systems . The AbbVie Foundation supports 
community-based programs that enhance access to health care 
for the underserved .
Since 2013, the AbbVie Foundation has supported the Baylor College of Medicine 
International Pediatric AIDS Initiative (BIPAI) in providing a holistic approach to HIV care 
and treatment, including prevention, comprehensive medical care and psychosocial support in 
Romania and Malawi .
The AbbVie Foundation continues its long-term partnership with AMPATH (the Academic 
Model Providing Access to Healthcare), seeking to make health care achievable and 
sustainable in Kenya by helping to advance the vision of universal health coverage for all Kenyans 
and developing an integrated approach to care that serves hard-to-reach populations and 
addresses multiple health challenges .
The AbbVie Foundation similarly supports Partners In Health’s innovative community health 
programs, which strengthen the capacity of community health workers in parts of Mexico and 
Peru . Support from the AbbVie Foundation has enabled Partners in Health to add four new clinic 
service areas to its community health worker program in Mexico .
Complementing AbbVie’s pro bono research program on neglected tropical diseases, the 
AbbVie Foundation maintains a long-term partnership with MAP International, supporting their 
multi-faceted, community-based approach to Chagas disease prevention and management in 
Bolivia, which includes training community health workers, health education and diagnosis and 
treatment support  .
2019 Responsible Action Report  29
We established an innovative partnership with the U.S. state 
of Washington to help eliminate hepatitis C in the state. 
The collaboration includes a modified subscription-type pricing 
model for our pan-genotypic medicine, complemented by AbbVie 
support for a range of initiatives designed to help find, screen 
and link patients to treatment, and advance the knowledge 
and skills of nurses on the front lines of the elimination effort  . 
Globally, AbbVie supports approximately 300 micro-elimination 
projects focused on eliminating HCV in targeted populations or 
geographies . Many of these programs are helping to address 
challenges key populations face in accessing care .In 2019, we expanded our U.S. patient assistance program, 
which provides free AbbVie medicines to qualifying patients. 
We gave the program a new name, myAbbVie Assist, expanded 
eligibility for the program, simplified the application process and 
conducted an awareness campaign to ensure that qualifying 
patients knew of the program . myAbbVie Assist provided free 
AbbVie medicine, including many of our newest medicines, to 
over 89,000 patients in 2019, up from nearly 81,000 patients in 
2018 . Information about eligibility for myAbbVie Assist and other 
savings programs is available at abbvie.com/patients .
In China, QC Tools, a suite of HIV/AIDS case management 
tools developed with AbbVie support, achieved adoption 
by 18 provinces that collectively house 90 percent of the 
country’s HIV/AIDS patients. QC Tools is part of an approach 
developed collaboratively with Chinese health organizations and 
provincial AIDS administrators to help China address a surge 
in HIV/AIDS patients by sharing information to get them into 
treatment faster  . In 2019, we also worked with China’s largest 
health publishing group to build a series of smartphone-based 
e-learning platforms called AIDS Hub, which provides information 
to health care providers to address the growing needs of their 
patient populations . Within three months of its initial launch, 
AIDS Hub published 532 courses and registered 4,100 health 
care providers . Together, these tools are helping China progress 
toward 90-90-90 targets set by the Joint UN Programme on HIV 
and AIDS . Read more about the targets here .
We engaged with key policymakers, scientists, clinicians 
and patient leaders in dialogue about how to build, fund 
and implement successful cancer control programs at The 
Economist’s 2019 War on Cancer event in Mexico City. 
AbbVie sponsored a panel discussion on the needs of patients 
with blood cancers, to help ensure they are part of the public 
health agenda and addressed in the national cancer plans  
being developed by the government of Mexico . AbbVie is 
collaborating with the Mexican Institute of Social Security to 
further document the burden of blood cancers in Mexico, and 
with local patient organizations on policy briefs to further inform 
national cancer plans .Our progress
“ We were looking for a partnership 
because we really want to break 
through these barriers . It’s not just 
about the price of a treatment; we 
need help across the entire spectrum 
of care . That’s why we’re really excited 
by the experience and support that 
AbbVie brings to the table . ”
 –  Judy Zerzan, M .D  ., Chief Medical Officer,  
Washington State Health Care Authority
Expanding access to health care and our medicines 2016 2017 2018 2019
U .S . patients provided medicine at no cost through the myAbbVie Assist patient 
assistance program78,745 76,692 80,871 89,122Key performance indicators
30  2019 Responsible Action Report
At AbbVie, we believe in the importance of a healthy environment 
and the sustainable use of natural resources . We work to 
advance the sustainability of our global operations by reducing 
the energy and water we consume, and by reducing the waste 
we generate . We also monitor our operations to ensure that the 
manufacture, use and disposal of our medicines do not adversely 
affect the environment or human health .
We use robust environmental and energy management systems . 
All of our manufacturing sites have ISO 14001 certification for 
effective environmental management systems, ten have ISO 
50001 certification for effective energy management systems and 
we are working toward two additional ISO 50001 certifications .
We have set ambitious, long-term environmental sustainability 
targets for absolute reductions to carbon emissions, water use 
and waste generation, striving for zero waste to landfill at our 
sites, while driving increases in renewable electricity  . Through 
participation in CDP, we are transparent about our efforts and  
our impacts .We also expect our suppliers to join us in our efforts to protect 
the environment  . As stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct, 
we expect that “suppliers shall operate in an environmentally 
efficient manner and shall strive to minimize adverse impacts  
on the environment  .” Our supplier sustainability audits include  
a robust assessment of the environmental stewardship practices 
of key suppliers .
Through our sustainable procurement policy, we prioritize  
the selection of suppliers and purchased goods that have  
lower impact on the environment when compared with 
competing products .
View our commitment to environmental stewardship and our 
position on global climate change for additional information .We prioritize environmental sustainability across our 
business and supply chain .
2025 Target 2035 Target
Reduce absolute carbon emissions (scope 1 & scope 2 – market based) 25% 50%
Increase percentage of electricity purchased from renewable sources  
(excluding leased commercial offices)50% 100%
Reduce absolute water withdrawal (including non-contact cooling water) 20% 50%
Reduce absolute total hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated  
(excluding construction and demolition waste)20% —
Achieve and maintain combined recycling rate for hazardous & non-hazardous 
waste (excluding construction and demolition waste)50% —
Achieve zero waste  to landfill (excluding leased offices) — 100%AbbVie environmental targets  (all changes are relative to 2015 baseline)Commitment: Steward our Ethical and Sustainable Business
Reduc e absolute
 Carbon Emissions 
  25%(Scope 1  & Scope 2 –  
market based)   Increase 
Renewable 
Electricity
 50% 
Percentage of electricity purchased 
from renewable sources, excluding 
leased commercial oﬃces  
Reduce absolute total  
 Waste G enerated
 20%
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)Increase 
 Recycling Rate
 50%
 Combined Recycling Rate for 
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)(excludes leased oﬃces)Achieve  
Zero Waste 
to Land/f_ill
 100%Reduce absolute total  
Water  Withdrawal 
   20%         (including non-contact    
cooling  water) 
Reduc e absolute
 Carbon Emissions 
  25%(Scope 1  & Scope 2 –  
market based)   Increase 
Renewable 
Electricity
 50% 
Percentage of electricity purchased 
from renewable sources, excluding 
leased commercial oﬃces  
Reduce absolute total  
 Waste G enerated
 20%
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)Increase 
 Recycling Rate
 50%
 Combined Recycling Rate for 
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)(excludes leased oﬃces)Achieve  
Zero Waste 
to Land/f_ill
 100%Reduce absolute total  
Water  Withdrawal 
   20%         (including non-contact    
cooling  water) 
Reduc e absolute
 Carbon Emissions 
  25%(Scope 1  & Scope 2 –  
market based)   Increase 
Renewable 
Electricity
 50% 
Percentage of electricity purchased 
from renewable sources, excluding 
leased commercial oﬃces  
Reduce absolute total  
 Waste G enerated
 20%
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)Increase 
 Recycling Rate
 50%
 Combined Recycling Rate for 
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)(excludes leased oﬃces)Achieve  
Zero Waste 
to Land/f_ill
 100%Reduce absolute total  
Water  Withdrawal 
   20%         (including non-contact    
cooling  water) Reduc e absolute
 Carbon Emissions 
  25%(Scope 1  & Scope 2 –  
market based)   Increase 
Renewable 
Electricity
 50% 
Percentage of electricity purchased 
from renewable sources, excluding 
leased commercial oﬃces  
Reduce absolute total  
 Waste G enerated
 20%
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)Increase 
 Recycling Rate
 50%
 Combined Recycling Rate for 
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)(excludes leased oﬃces)Achieve  
Zero Waste 
to Land/f_ill
 100%Reduce absolute total  
Water  Withdrawal 
   20%         (including non-contact    
cooling  water) 
Reduc e absolute
 Carbon Emissions 
  25%(Scope 1  & Scope 2 –  
market based)   Increase 
Renewable 
Electricity
 50% 
Percentage of electricity purchased 
from renewable sources, excluding 
leased commercial oﬃces  
Reduce absolute total  
 Waste G enerated
 20%
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)Increase 
 Recycling Rate
 50%
 Combined Recycling Rate for 
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)(excludes leased oﬃces)Achieve  
Zero Waste 
to Land/f_ill
 100%Reduce absolute total  
Water  Withdrawal 
   20%         (including non-contact    
cooling  water) 
Reduc e absolute
 Carbon Emissions 
  25%(Scope 1  & Scope 2 –  
market based)   Increase 
Renewable 
Electricity
 50% 
Percentage of electricity purchased 
from renewable sources, excluding 
leased commercial oﬃces  
Reduce absolute total  
 Waste G enerated
 20%
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)Increase 
 Recycling Rate
 50%
 Combined Recycling Rate for 
Hazardous &
Non-Hazardous Waste
(excluding construction and 
demolition waste)(excludes leased oﬃces)Achieve  
Zero Waste 
to Land/f_ill
 100%Reduce absolute total  
Water  Withdrawal 
   20%         (including non-contact    
cooling  water) 2019 Responsible Action Report  31
2019 marked the inaugural year for a new environmental 
sustainability strategy focused on reducing our 
environmental footprint, growing sustainably and 
inspiring, educating and engaging our workforce to steward 
sustainability within and beyond AbbVie . The strategy is 
grounded in three key pillars: operate responsibly, sustainable 
growth and innovate and inspire . We have made notable progress 
this year in each area of focus .
We have continued to make progress on our absolute 
environmental sustainability targets relative to our 2015 
baseline. Since 2015, we have reduced our absolute carbon 
dioxide emissions (scope 1 and 2) by more than 16 percent, 
over halfway to our 2025 target of 25 percent  . We increased the 
percentage of purchased electricity from renewable sources 
to more than 24 percent, up from 9 percent in 2016 and almost 
halfway to our 2025 target of 50 percent  .
Reduction in carbon emissions is being achieved largely 
through investment in technology, infrastructure and  
processes to increase energy efficiency. In our Barceloneta, 
Puerto Rico plant, we installed a new combined heat and energy 
system that is more energy efficient and reduces SOx, NOx and 
particulate matter emissions . We continue to expand the use of 
electric and hybrid vehicles in our fleets . We also increased the 
amount of renewable electricity that we purchased to power sites 
in North America .We reduced water consumption through continued 
investment in new technology. At our North Chicago sites, 
we implemented a new process for generating purified water 
for our manufacturing operations, resulting in annual projected 
reductions of over 110,000 cubic meters (25 million gallons) of 
water consumption . Using new meters, the team at our Sligo-
Manorhamilton site in Ireland has identified water-saving projects 
delivering over 28,000 cubic meters of water savings annually  .
We completed two significant waste reduction projects in 
2019. By installing an on-site wastewater treatment unit at our 
Sligo-Manorhamilton site, we are able to remove all of the active 
pharmaceutical content from the cleaning process wastewater, 
resulting in an estimated 70 percent reduction in hazardous 
waste generated at the site going forward . We also completed 
a non-hazardous waste reduction project at our North Chicago 
site that allows us to repurpose a portion of the waste for offsite 
beneficial use, resulting in an estimated annual reduction of 740 
metric tons (1 .6 million pounds) of waste to landfill .
As we seek to grow our business, we are taking steps to 
ensure we are incorporating environmental sustainability 
into our plans and programs. Over the past year, we have 
updated our Global Facility Design Guidelines to integrate 
more than 100 environmental sustainability opportunities and 
best practices applicable to new, renovated and leased AbbVie 
buildings worldwide .Our progress
Environmental Sustainability 2016 2017 2018 2019
Change in absolute carbon emissions vs . 2015 baseline*  
(scope 1 and scope 2, market based) [2025 target: -25%]-8% -13% -13% -16%
Change in absolute water withdrawal vs . 2015 baseline*  
(includes non-contact cooling water) ++ [2025 target: -20%]+4% +1% +4% -6%
Change in absolute water consumption** vs . 2015  
(excludes non-contact cooling water) ++-5% -12% -11% -12%
Combined recycling rate for hazardous and non-hazardous waste  
(excluding construction & demolition) [2025 target: 50%]37% 37% 32% 35%
Percentage of global waste diverted from landfills (annually) **, + 
(excluding construction & demolition)77% 83% 85% 88%
Percentage of electricity purchased from renewable sources  
(excluding leased facilities) [2025 target: 50%]9% 16% 20% 25%
* Figures exclude two R&D facilities which were not included in the 2015 baseline .
** This key performance metric includes manufacturing and R&D, which account for the majority of our operations .
+ Includes waste disposed of in the following manner: beneficial use, recycled, composted, treated, fuel blending, incinerated with energy recovery and incinerated without energy 
recovery  .
++ Non-contact cooling water is returned to the source in the same amount and with the same quality as was withdrawn . The increase we’ve seen in our non-contact cooling water 
use is generally due to seasonal variations in source water temperatures .Key performance indicators32  2019 Responsible Action Report
Spark: Inspiring AbbVie Employees  
to Innovate for Sustainability
Our global workforce is one of our most powerful tools in 
driving sustainability through our operations and beyond . 
To harness their ideas, in 2019, we launched the Spark 
Innovation Accelerator, an internal incubator for employee-
driven sustainability proposals focused on accelerating  
our efforts to reduce energy, water and waste .
Our Global Sustainability and Business Technology 
Solutions teams recognized the need the explore more 
innovative sustainability solutions and the heightened 
interest among the broader base of AbbVie employees  
in being part of our sustainability efforts .
Spark Innovation invites employees across the 
enterprise to submit proposals for new ways to reduce 
AbbVie’s environmental impact and help us achieve our 
environmental sustainability targets .
The response to Spark Innovation has been tremendous .  
In this first year, more than 130 individuals from over  
20 sites submitted a total of 110 ideas . Bringing both  
cross-functional expertise and passion, they volunteered 
their time to developing impactful proposals .
The winning ideas represented teams from Chicago, Puerto 
Rico, Ireland, Germany and Singapore . Each winning team 
is piloting its ideas and sharing monthly progress on a 
global website for all employees to follow along .Ingraining Sustainability into Our 
Work Across Ireland – Both Inside  
and Outside the Office
Ireland is home to three AbbVie manufacturing sites in Cork 
and Sligo and two offices in Dublin . Our Irish workforce, 
which comprises more than 700 employees in all, has taken  
a leadership position on sustainability  .
Established in 2019, Team Evergreen, the affiliate’s cross-
site, cross-functional working group focusing on “green” 
solutions, has already implemented a number of highly 
impactful initiatives at our operations and commercial 
sites . The group is focused on identifying, implementing 
and sharing best practices across sites, within their 
communities and with other affiliates .
Team Evergreen’s work has been celebrated by a 
number of national, regional and international groups, 
demonstrating excellence in terms of sustainability and 
environmental awareness-raising . Recent accolades 
include Facilities Management Award for CSR Initiative of 
the Year, Pharma Industry Awards Company of the Year  
and American Chamber of Commerce in Ireland Créafóg 
(earth) Award .
Members of the Spark Innovation Steering Committee review 
finalist pitches
Team Evergreen members alongside newly installed electric car 
charging ports
AbbVie
Evergreen
...sustaining our busines s2019 Responsible Action Report  33
We support communities through economic activity, 
employee community engagement and philanthropy  .
At AbbVie, involvement in our communities covers a spectrum 
of engagement  . Not only do we provide funding to nonprofits 
through the AbbVie Foundation, but we apply our hands and 
minds to serve our communities .
Since the company’s inception in 2013, AbbVie and the AbbVie 
Foundation have contributed significant funding directly into the 
North Chicago community immediately surrounding our global 
headquarters . Through the work of more than 30 local nonprofit 
organizations, our contributions have helped to build the district’s 
first preschool, renovate libraries, classrooms, athletic facilities 
and activity rooms and fund the adoption of new math and 
reading curricula .
Natural disasters can cause injury, illness, death, homelessness 
and economic loss . Through our disaster relief program, we help 
communities recover from disasters and become more resilient 
for the future . Our program has helped communities impacted by 
nearly 50 disasters in more than 25 countries on 6 continents .
Our North America employee giving and matching program 
encourages employees to make charitable donations to eligible 
nonprofit organizations . Through an online platform supported 
by AbbVie, employees, retirees and former and current 
members of the Board of Directors may make contributions 
to charities of their choice . The AbbVie Foundation matches 
those contributions dollar for dollar, up to $5,000 . Each year we 
run the Employee Giving Campaign to encourage participation 
in the program . We consistently exceed 85 percent employee 
participation in the campaign .
Community engagement is an integral part of AbbVie’s culture 
and we encourage our employees to give back through 
volunteering . About one quarter of AbbVie employees volunteer 
annually through programs sponsored by AbbVie or the AbbVie 
Foundation . In recognition of this culture, Great Place to Work® 
and PEOPLE named AbbVie as one of PEOPLE’s “50 Companies 
That Care . ” AbbVie ranked No . 25 on this list that highlights the 
top U  .S . companies that have succeeded in business while also 
demonstrating outstanding respect, care and concern for their 
employees, their communities and the environment  .
AbbVie employees engage with students in their communities 
through educational programs sponsored by the AbbVie 
Foundation . In North Chicago, the AbbVie STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering, Math) Challenge was developed in 
partnership with the Illinois Science and Technology Institute to 
enable students from the local high school to explore potential 
careers in science .We work with critical partners toward these ends . For example, 
we’ve established a long-term relationship with North Chicago 
Community Partners (NCCP), an organization whose mission 
is to address the lack of support for academic challenges 
facing children in this under-resourced community  . Through 
NCCP, AbbVie provides support, financial and otherwise, to 
strengthen the community holistically – from nurturing students 
academically, to bolstering health and social services . 
In China, employees worked with the Shanghai Children’s 
Medical Center, where children are undergoing treatment for 
serious illnesses . Even though the hospitalized children face  
life-threatening diseases, their desire to learn remains strong .
The AbbVie Foundation’s SEEK (Science, Engineering, 
Exploration, Knowledge) program introduces children ages  
5–14 to science and engineering with the goal of filling the gap  
in STEM education around the world . In China, employees 
worked with the Shanghai Children’s Medical Center, where 
children are undergoing treatment for serious illnesses . Even 
though the hospitalized children face life-threatening diseases, 
their desire to learn remains strong . SEEK has enhanced the 
education of close to 300 children in Asia, primarily in classrooms 
and hospitals across four major cities in China and in Japan 
starting in 2016 . AbbVie scientists shaped the SEEK curriculum, 
with a group of female engineers developing the engineering 
module and advocating for robust curriculum . Today, the program 
is offered in 12 languages across multiple countries, including 
Brazil, China, Colombia, Germany, Japan, Malawi, Singapore, 
Switzerland, Vietnam and the United States .
Through our spectrum of employee engagement, from giving  
and matching to hands-on and skills-based volunteering, we  
have harnessed the power of our global employee base to make 
a difference throughout the world .Commitment: Steward our Ethical and Sustainable Business
34  2019 Responsible Action Report
In its sixth year, our signature global volunteer event, Week 
of Possibilities, saw AbbVie employees in 50 countries 
donate more than 40,000 hours of community service. 
Through that event and other projects throughout the year, 
AbbVie employees volunteered a total of 68,422 hours during 
work time in 2019 . In addition, over 12,000 employees –  
85 percent of those eligible and triple the industry standard – 
participated in our North America employee giving and  
matching program, generating $13 .8 million to benefit more  
than 6,000 charities .
Starting in 2018, through our legal pro bono program, 
AbbVie attorneys and legal staff have taken on 14 asylum 
cases, donating their time and skills to represent people 
seeking asylum in the United States on grounds of political 
and gender persecution. They have teamed up with the 
National Immigrant Justice Center (NIJC), a nonprofit that 
provides legal services to immigrants and asylum seekers . Without a lawyer, non-detained asylum seekers prevail in only 
13 percent of cases, while legal representation increases their 
chances of success to 74 percent  . On July 1, 2019, the Chicago 
Asylum Office granted permanent asylum to one of our pro bono 
clients . We are proud to be part of protecting human rights and 
hopeful for more positive outcomes in the future .
In 2019, AbbVie launched a pro bono program, Possibilities 
Pros, with Taproot Foundation during Week of Possibilities, 
pairing the minds of 50 employees with 11 local nonprofits to 
walk through half-day design thinking session to address issues 
such as marketing, project management, IT and human resource 
challenges .
As a committed employer in Puerto Rico, we were proud of 
the progress made by our partners, Direct Relief and Habitat 
for Humanity, in moving the Puerto Rico community from 
recovery to resilience in the wake of Hurricanes Maria and Irma 
and the more recent earthquakes to hit the area .Our progress
AbbVie disaster relief contributions, 2013–2019
Australia
Bahamas
Balkan Islands
China
ColombiaDominican Republic
Ecuador
Greece
Guatemala
HaitiHonduras
India
Indonesia
Japan
LiberiaMalawi
Mexico
Mozambique
Myanmar
NepalPakistan
Peru
Philippines
Puerto Rico
SerbiaSierra Leone
Turkey
Ukraine
United States
U.S. Virgin Islands
2019 Responsible Action Report  35
Communities In Schools: Communities In Schools (CIS) 
offers essential support services to provide at-risk students  
an equitable opportunity to excel in the classroom and 
beyond . With AbbVie’s support, CIS expanded its reach to 
152 more schools, serving 100,000 more students, including 
children in 16 high-need Chicago public schools . Through CIS 
programs nationwide, students benefit from targeted support 
to help schools address chronic absenteeism, improve school 
climate, close the opportunity gap and help students prepare 
for college and career  .
At a school in Chicago’s South Side, Rasnick F  ., known 
affectionately by her students as “Ms . Razz,” provides ongoing 
support through mentorship to 50 at-risk students .
“ The only thing  
that we do is 
refuse to take no 
for an answer  .”
 –  Chris Sutton, Program 
Director, Youth Advocate 
Programs on C2C 
philosophy for its studentsThe University of Chicago Education Lab: Through an 
AbbVie donation, the University of Chicago Education Lab 
expanded its partnership with Chicago Public Schools, 
supporting work to implement, evaluate and scale 
promising solutions in education . In 2019, the Education 
Lab partnered with nonprofit organizations across the city 
to pilot programs in nine alternative and neighborhood high 
schools, with the potential to impact thousands of students . 
AbbVie’s support further allowed the Choose to Change 
program (C2C) – a partnership between Youth Advocate 
Programs, Inc . and Children’s Home & Aid – to expand 
trauma-informed services to more than 200 students . 
Education Lab researchers found that youth who participate 
in C2C experience a nearly 50 percent reduction in violent 
crime arrests and have higher school attendance rates .
City Year: With AbbVie’s funding, City Year has significantly 
expanded its work in STEM (Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Math) programming as a result of AbbVie’s 
partnership . City Year increased math and literacy support 
in 58 more schools, reaching 45,000 students, and provided 
new curricula and training services to more than 85 schools 
nationwide . They are providing daily academic and social-
emotional supports for 226,000 students in 350 systemically 
under-resourced schools across 29 cities during the  
2019–2020 school year  . Within AbbVie’s hometown of 
Chicago, City Year expanded its impact in 31 schools, 
serving 16,000 students .
Chris Sutton (Photo credit: Newsy—Jamal Andress and Madeline Carl)
City Year at workEducation to Support the Whole Child
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4 focuses on ensuring quality education around the world . Supporting 
educational programs and related services for school-age children is a philanthropic priority for AbbVie and the AbbVie 
Foundation, and we are proud to partner with leading organizations in this space . In 2018, we deepened our commitment to 
education in the U  .S . by making a series of major donations . We are already seeing significant results from these partnerships .
“ I see potential in 
[my student] – he 
can serve as a 
leader at school 
and at home . ”
 –  Rasnick F  ., CIS Chicago 
Student Supports 
Manager
Ms. Razz (Photo credit: Communities In Schools)
36  2019 Responsible Action Report
Economic activity, volunteerism and philanthropy 2016 2017 2018 2019
Employee community volunteers (worldwide) 8,174 7,247 7,494 10,059
Students reached through education projects 9,107 56,840 56,807 57,033
Funds raised during employee giving campaign (millions) $6 .5 $7 .90 $11 .80 $13 .0 
Number of disaster relief efforts supported 7 9 10 14
Total amount donated to disaster relief organizations  
(excluding product donations, millions)$0 .4 $4 .5 $2 .6 $1 .5Key performance indicatorsThe 2017 hurricanes that ravaged Puerto 
Rico hit close to home for AbbVie . With 
more than 1,200 employees in Puerto 
Rico, we knew we wanted to be part of 
both the immediate emergency relief effort 
and longer-term community building . In 
2018, AbbVie donated $50 million each to Direct Relief and 
Habit for Humanity International to strengthen Puerto Rico’s 
primary health care and housing systems, respectively  .
With AbbVie’s support, Direct Relief has implemented 
numerous projects to help ensure uninterrupted care where  
it is needed most  .
Direct Relief repaired 14 health clinics damaged by Hurricane 
Maria, allowing them to reopen and expand operations in 
partnership with local contractors . In 2019, Direct Relief also 
procured and delivered a fleet of 17 Mobile Medical Units 
and 17 Off-Road Patient Provider Vehicles to help health care 
providers navigate challenging terrain and reach the most 
remote and vulnerable populations . The Mobile Medical Units 
are expected to reach 10,000 patients a year  . Additionally, 
Direct Relief launched a first of its kind telemedicine program 
on the island . Through this program, Puerto Ricans can 
access specialty care, such as mental health services, that  
are often excluded from short-term emergency relief  .
In the aftermath of Hurricanes Maria and Irma, a lack of 
reliable power and access to clean water meant clinics could 
not provide health services . To prevent a similar situation from 
occurring in the future, Direct Relief is investing in resilient 
power systems that combine solar power, battery storage 
and backup generators to ensure continuous operation, even 
through weeks-long disruptions of electricity  . New solar power 
installations support 12 health facilities and 14 community 
water pumps . To date, 1,800 families have benefited from the 
solar water pumps installed across the island . In addition, 
12,000 health workers from all health centers throughout the 
island have been trained in emergency response procedures .The fruits of these investments are already visible . Following 
a 6 .4 magnitude earthquake in early January 2020, hundreds 
of thousands of people across the island lost access to 
electricity and water  . Health centers in the communities 
receiving the new solar energy and water features were able 
to stay open with no interruption to patient care .
Through efforts to revitalize and strengthen the housing 
system in Puerto Rico, Habitat for Humanity International 
completed 129 substantial home repairs, are currently 
assisting in clearing 500 property titles and trained 194 local 
workers in OSHA certified building practices, facilitating 
further infrastructure improvements . In 2020, Habitat for 
Humanity International will begin constructing new homes 
to help rebuild the housing supply and support long-term 
resiliency  .Building Resilience in the Puerto Rico Health System
AbbVie employees prepared nearly 800 emergency backpacks for the 
Medical Reserve Corps and other health care providers. Packs were 
distributed following the January 2020 earthquake.
2019 Responsible Action Report  37
Looking ahead
As we enter a new decade, we are both inspired by the 
possibilities of new medical breakthroughs and aware of the 
challenges that lie ahead .
The COVID-19 pandemic has transformed the world as we know 
it and we will continue to feel the impact for years to come . While 
we are proud of our efforts to date, we know we will need to be 
agile in our continued response to evolving needs .
In addition, the global public debate on the cost and delivery of 
health care and the climate crisis continue to inspire and motivate 
us to find innovative approaches . Most importantly, these global 
challenges highlight our role in addressing the needs of patients 
and communities, here, now and in the future .
On the horizon in 2020, a number of late-stage data readouts  
and regulatory submissions for additional indications in immunology and oncology are forthcoming . Over the coming 
years, we also expect the early-stage pipeline that we’ve been 
building to mature . We are confident that new proof-of-concept 
successes will emerge, bringing with them renewed promise for 
better treatments for conditions that have for too long diminished 
patients’ quality of life . We aim to elevate the standard of care, 
with patients at the heart of everything we do .
As we welcome Allergan, we will gain new colleagues, serve 
new patients and health care providers and operate in new 
communities . We are excited to combine our passion and 
responsibility to transform patients’ lives globally for years  
to come .38  2019 Responsible Action Report
Polices, Codes and Compliance Standards
Our public positions and views align with our work to improve 
lives—and to do so in a transparent and sustainable way  . 
Additional policies, codes and compliance standards on a 
range of areas are also publicly available .
Data assurance and reporting standards
Specified 2019 environmental and safety data have been 
assured by DNV GL  . Where noted, minor changes have  
been made to previously stated data .
Our Environmental Assurance Report outlines performance 
for corporate-wide environmental and safety data . All 
environmental data is presented as absolute data; safety  
data is presented as rates, using hours worked .Stay up to date on recent news, stories 
and more by connecting with us .
Stories. AbbVie.com
AbbVie.com/responsibility
Responsibility@abbvie.com
Email us to subscribe to our quarterly 
responsibility e-newsletter  .
For more information, visit:  
abbvie.com  
abbvie.com/responsibility
AbbVie Inc  . 
1 North Waukegan Road 
North Chicago, IL 60064 U  .S .A .
abbvie.com
©2020 AbbVie  . All rights reserved  .
Printed on recycled paper
