Making a Unique Difference  in the World Hologic 2019 Sustainability Report2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  1 Introduction A Message from Our Chairman and CEO Hologic’s Life-Saving Impact Research and Development Our History of Innovation Company Profile, Key Financial Highlights ESG: Materiality Overview The Globe Environmental Health and Safety Quality Management System Environmental Packaging Initiatives Green Energy Site Initiatives Culture & Society Engagement Diversity Talent Commitment to Pay Equity Better Access, Better Rewards Access to Healthcare Philanthropy Governance Governance and Shareholder Engagement,   Board Transformation and Structure Roles of the Board Compensation Philosophy and Structure Policies and Procedures Cover image: Manchester, UK employees celebrating International Women’s Day, 2019.A Message from Our Chairman and CEO Dear Hologic Stakeholders: Thank you for reading our first sustainability report.
We hope it  helps you understand how Hologic makes a unique difference in  the world.
We believe we have a lot to be proud of, but at the same time, a lot  that we can do better.
In this letter I’d like to cover three main topics.
First, how we got  here—the journey we’ve been on to identify and center around our  Purpose, Passion and Promise.
Second, why we integrate sustain - ability issues into our day-to-day business strategy and operations,  rather than viewing them as separate priorities.
And third, how our  approach to sustainability is coming to life.
Sustainability Through Our Purpose,   Passion and Promise First, a little history.
This report is an important milestone—but in  no way the end—of a process that began at Hologic a few years  ago.
As we were evolving through organic growth, international  expansion, and acquisitions and divestitures, our leadership team  set out to clearly define our role in society.
Around the same time, some of our large institutional investors  were increasingly analyzing environmental, social and governance  factors—sometimes known as ESG—as part of their investment  processes.
For example, the CEO of BlackRock, the world’s largest  investment management company, wrote in early 2018 that:  Society is demanding that companies, both public and private,  serve a social purpose.
To prosper over time, every company  must not only deliver financial performance, but also show  how it makes a positive contribution to society … Without a  sense of purpose, no company, either public or private, can  achieve its full potential.
In response, and after a lot of internal discussion with our Board and  employees at all levels, I wrote to stockholders in our 2019 proxy  letter that: We have a fundamental obligation to create value for  shareholders through profitable, long-term growth.
But  this cannot be the whole story.
To focus solely on financial  outcomes would be to ignore the multifaceted, instrumental  role that corporations play in our world.
Indeed, most of our  employees are motivated by a sense of higher purpose.In that same letter, I quoted Russell Pearlman of the Korn Ferry  Institute, who said that “purpose and profit not only peacefully co- exist, but purpose can drive profit.” This describes our approach at  Hologic well, since the very work we do—fighting disease through  early detection—contributes to a healthier, more sustainable world.
While companies in most industries provide important benefits to  society, we believe ours is a higher calling.
Thus, at Hologic we’ve defined our Purpose as enabling healthier  lives, everywhere, every day .
We know that the more lives we  touch, the more our profits will grow over the long term.
In the   last year, for example, we estimate that our products touched  more than 234 million people around the world, and we know  that today’s profits will fuel even greater investments in human  health in the future.
Simply put, we believe strongly that for-profit  enterprises like Hologic are having a massive impact on improving  human health globally.
Within our Purpose, we place special emphasis on the healthcare  needs of women.
Our Passion, therefore, is to become global  champions for women’s health .
We believe that early detection of  disease leads to better, more cost-effective health outcomes.
In fact,  no company in the world has done more to fight cervical and breast  cancer than we have through our innovative diagnostic solutions.
While women’s health is not our sole focus—we have introduced  many products that also benefit men—it is our rallying cry.
We believe our unique passion is urgently needed today.
For far  too long, women’s healthcare needs have been minimized by  governments and healthcare systems in emerging—and devel - oped—countries around the world.
So we are inspired by the deep  belief that our success as a company will fundamentally improve the  health of millions of women and families globally.
You’ll read more  about this in this report.
Steve MacMillan, Chairman,  President and Chief  Executive Officer, speaks  to our Purpose, Passion  and Promise at the  Company’s 2019 National  Sales Meeting in   Dallas, Texas.332019 Hologic Sustainability Report  3  Introduction   The Globe  Culture & Society  Governance 2 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report ENABLE HEALTHIER LIVES, EVERYWHERE, EVERY DAY.
BECOME GLOBAL CHAMPIONS FOR WOMEN’S HEALTH.
THE SCIENCE OF SURE.
As a healthcare company, we believe we have a special  responsibility to patients and medical professionals, since  our products contribute to life or death decisions.
We make a  Promise to our customers and patients, a Promise rooted in  a concept called The Science of Sure™ .
The Science of Sure is  about progressive certainty.
It’s a commitment to help healthcare  professionals minimize doubt and maximize the confidence they  have in their decisions and diagnoses.
How do we do this?
To bring The Science of Sure to life and provide  value to patients, we focus on: • Product quality .
Our customers—radiologists, lab technicians,  OB/GYNs and many other important healthcare professionals— count on our products to perform as we say they will, when  lives and livelihood are at stake.
We must never compromise  this trust.
• Clinical differentiation .
Our R&D programs are geared to  generate products that provide a meaningful benefit for  customers and patients.
• Customers relationships .
We partner with our customers over  the long-term to help build their businesses and ensure that pa - tients have access to our products.
We sell with integrity, help  generate patient demand, fight for appropriate reimbursement,  and advocate for preventive healthcare.
• Our people .
We believe that focusing on two simple  factors—talent and engagement—helps our employees serve  customers more effectively, as well as drive profitable growth.
Sustainability as Part of Our Business Strategy I hope it’s clear that our commitment to sustainable business prac- tices is part and parcel of our mission.
Said another way, for Hologic  to drive consistent, long-term shareholder returns, we must exceed  the expectations of our customers—doctors and other healthcare  providers who have dedicated their careers to improving human  life.
Likewise, we must nurture and engage our employees, who are  striving to provide better lives for themselves and their families.
And  finally, we must respect our suppliers and our communities, without  whose support our results would eventually collapse.
We believe the interests of our key stakeholders are inextricably  linked.
To deliver profitable growth over the long term, we must,  by definition, also meet the needs of customers, employees and  our communities.
We don’t spend a lot of time debating whether  one group should rank above the others.
Instead, we believe that  our many constituencies are mutually supportive of one another,  and that in a vibrant capitalist economy, their successes go  hand-in-hand.
Similarly, we believe that sustainability issues should be integrated  with our business strategy, led by our Global Leadership Team  and overseen by our Board of Directors, rather than managed as a  separate set of issues.
Some Early Successes We have begun to demonstrate some early successes based on  this approach, with the understanding that we have much oppor - tunity for future improvement.
For example, in the area of diversity,  three of our eight directors (including our lead independent director)  are women, which clearly supports the organizational passion I  described earlier.
And three of our directors were born outside  the United States, supporting our broad definition of diversity and  business goal to grow internationally.Among our senior management team, we have promoted  and  hired women into key roles, including Chief Financial Officer (CFO),  Senior Vice President of Human Resources, Chief Information  Officer, and Chief of Staff.
This represents significant progress since  I joined the Company in late 2013, when every member of the senior  management team I inherited was a white man.
To date, we have  hired many of our senior women leaders from outside the Company,  but we are also developing a solid talent pipeline at all levels of our  organization, and expanding this internal pipeline is a key focus  going forward.
For example, we believe that our commercial teams are an  important feeder pool for senior management.
With this in mind,  three of our five domestic commercial leaders are women, and one  other is a person of color.
And in our Finance organization, which  has not been a stronghold for women traditionally, almost half the  members of our leadership team are women, including our CFO and  Vice Presidents of Treasury and Tax.
In hiring new employees, we don’t set diversity targets or quotas.
Instead, we strive to hire the most talented person for the job, and  believe that over time, this will lead to an increasingly diverse  workforce.
In fact, we make wide use of customized assessment  tools to eliminate bias in the hiring process.
These tools are blind  to gender and race, which enables us to focus on the potential for  performance.
And it’s performance that drives compensation, which  our analysis has shown is equitable between men and women.
We believe the key to achieving better financial performance is  engaged leaders, and that every employee deserves a talented  and engaged manager.
So we have been conducting an annual  engagement survey since 2015.
More than 90% of employees regu - larly participate, reflecting the emphasis we place on it.
Engagement  levels increased substantially several years ago as we brought new leadership into the Company, then flattened out for a few years.
This  year, however, we were pleased to see our scores improve again,  due to the heightened focus on our Purpose, Passion and Promise,  as well as management training.
Another area in which we’ve made good progress is managing  business risks.
Here again, mitigating risk is a key element of our  business strategy, not a standalone process.
Each year, our General  Counsel and Corporate Secretary lead our executive team in an ex - ercise to identify the most serious risks facing the Company, which  typically range from broad macroeconomic challenges to discrete  competitive offerings.
We analyze them by probability and potential  magnitude, then develop mitigation strategies that are incorporated  into the individual performance goals of our leaders.
In conclusion, at Hologic we believe that creating long-term  shareholder value is critical, but so is how we create that value.
By  focusing on our unique Purpose, Passion and Promise, we strive  to generate profitable, long-term growth that benefits not only our  shareholders, but also our customers and patients around the globe.
The integration of sustainability issues with our business strategy  has helped us make good progress in several key areas, but we  recognize that we can do much more.
We hope that publication of  this first sustainability report will catalyze that future progress.
We  look forward to your feedback and thank you for your interest.
Sincerely, Brainstorming session with members of our supply chain team.
2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  5  Introduction   The Globe  Culture & Society  GovernanceEarly Detection of Breast Cancer   Helps Save Lives At Hologic, we believe that finding invasive cancers earlier   is best for patients and the overall healthcare system.
That early  detection reduces unnecessary costs .
And that driving patient   and provider education helps women have informed   discussions  about their health.
One example is 3D Mammography™, which is recognized as  the standard of care for breast cancer screening by clinicians  worldwide.
Many peer-reviewed studies have shown that 3D  Mammography™ detects more invasive cancers earlier than   digital mammography alone.1,2,3  We are grateful to the millions of women who request our  mammography exam, the physicians who recognize it as their  patients’ best choice, and the many partner organizations that  join us to ensure everyone, every where has access to our  technologies and the ability to make the best decisions for their  health.
These innovations have clearly made a difference.
Overall breast  cancer death rates increased by 0.4% per year from 1975 to 1989,  but decreased by 1.8% per year from 2007 to 2016, for a total  decline of 40% .
As a result, 348,800 breast cancer deaths have  been averted  in the US through 2016.
This progress reflects  improvements in early detection  (through screening, as well as  increased awareness of symptoms) and better treatments.⁴Hologic’s Leadership in Cytology   Shows the Impact of Early Detection Before the introduction of the Pap test,  cervical cancer was the  leading cause of cancer-related deaths for women in the United  States.
Thanks to Pap tests and co-testing (a Pap test with an HPV  test), cervical cancer now ranks 14th in frequency.
5 In fact, the Pap  test is considered the most successful cancer screening tool in  history.
Cervical cancer death rates have declined by more than  70% since the introduction of screening in the 1950s.
5  The introduction of the ThinPrep Pap test revolutionized cervical  cancer screening, contributing to a reduction in cervical cancer  rates.
ThinPrep—now the most widely used Pap test in the  country—continues to show a significant benefit compared to a  conventional Pap smear.6Hologic’s Life-Saving Impact Who we are    Hologic is an innovative medical technology   company primarily focused on improving women’s   health and well-being through early detection   and treatment.
What we do    We deliver life-changing and life-saving detection,  diagnostic and surgical innovations that are rooted   in science, driven by technology and inspired by   a desire to improve the health of women and   families around the world.
Why it matters    Our exceptional, clinically proven products detect,   diagnose and treat illnesses earlier and better.
While we focus on women’s health and well-being,   we are committed to enabling healthier lives   everywhere, every day.
Fred Walker, Hologic Vice President, pictured with  his mother and breast cancer survivor, Nan; his wife  Liz, whose cervical cancer was found and treated  early; and his daughter Emily, who thanks to medical  advances in screening and early detection had her  healthy grandmother and mom at her wedding.
Lindsay is a breast cancer survivor.
Hear her story at https://youtu.be/TdLRX1XakKWe estimate that our  products benefited  approximately 234  million people across  the globe in 2019.
1.
Ciatto S, Houssami N, Bernardi D, et al.
Integration of 3D digital mammography with  tomosynthesis for population breast-cancer screening (STORM): a prospective comparison study.
The Lancet Oncology .
Jun 2013;14(7):583-589.
2.
Hodgson R, Heywang-Kobrunner S, Harvey S, et  al.
Systematic Review of 3D Mammography for Breast Cancer Screening.
The Breast .
2016;27:52- 61.
3.
McDonald ES, Oustimov A, Weinstein SP, et al.
Effectiveness of Digital Breast Tomosynthesis  Compared With Digital Mammography: Outcomes Analysis From 3 Years of Breast Cancer  Screening.
JAMA Oncol .
2016 Jun 1;2(6):737-43.
4.
American Cancer Society, Facts and Figures  2019  5.
American Cancer Society.
Cancer Facts and Figures 2005.
Atlanta: American Cancer  Society; 2005  6.
ThinPrep 2000 System PI, MAN-026240-001, Marlborough, MA; Hologic, Inc.
play_arrow 4 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  7   Introduction   The Globe  Culture & Society  Governance FDA clears the new Affirm®  prone biopsy system.
FDA approves the Selenia®  mammography system—the  beginning of a new era in  breast cancer screening.FDA approves the first  nucleic acid test for  screening donated blood  prior to transfusion.
FDA approves the  NovaSure® endometrial  ablation treatment  for abnormal uterine  bleeding (AUB).FDA approves the   Rapid fFN® test.FDA approves the  ThinPrep® Pap test, liquid- based cytology for cervical  cancer screening.
Launch of CE-marked  virology portfolio, including  Aptima® HIV, HCV and  HBV assays, along with  the Aptima® M.
genitalium  assay.2015 2016FDA clears the use of the  bone densitometer for  assessing three critical  health problems, including  osteoporosis.
FDA approves the   breakthrough Selenia  Dimensions® digital  tomosynthesis system  with the Hologic 3D  Mammography™ exam.
FDA clears the Panther®  system, an automated,  integrated molecular  platform for use with the  Aptima Combo 2® assay.
2011  FDA clears Clarity HD high- resolution 3D™ imaging and the  SmartCurve™ breast stabilization  system, providing superior  image quality and a clinically  proven solution for a more  comfortable mammogram.FDA approves the Brevera®  breast biopsy system  with CorLumina® imaging  technology—combining  tissue acquisition, real-time  imaging, verification and  advanced tissue handling.FDA approves the Aptima®  HIV-1 Quant assay, the  Aptima® HCV Quant DX  assay, and the Aptima® HSV  1 & 2 assay.
Panther Fusion®  respiratory assays are   also cleared.2017  2001 2002 FDA approves the Procleix®  Ultrio®* triplex blood  screening assay for HIV-1,  hepatitis B and C.
Release of the Tigris® DTS®  system for automated  screening of sexually  transmitted infections  (STIs).
2003Hologic introduces the  first dual-energy X-ray  absorptiometry system for  evaluating osteoporosis.FDA clears the first  molecular diagnostic  test kit for a sexually  transmitted infection.
FDA clears the first  nucleic acid test.
1985  1996 1995The healthcare markets in which we participate are characterized by rapid  technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer  requirements.
Investment in research and development (R&D) is critical to driving  our future growth.
Hologic has demonstrated a long-standing commitment  to R&D and has spent more than $1.3 billion over the last six years.
Hologic’s best-in-class products include our 3Dimensions™ mammography system,  the ThinPrep® Pap test, and our fully automated Panther® system.
These products  have made a huge difference in the fights against breast cancer, cervical cancer,  and infectious diseases, respectively.
Our R&D efforts are focused on improving  existing products and developing new ones to solve customer challenges and meet  the world’s future healthcare needs.
We remain committed to fueling sustainable  growth by enhancing the new product pipelines in each of our businesses.
Diagnostic employee in a wet lab in San Diego, California.
6 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report Our History   of InnovationResearch and Development$2.$2.$2.$1.$1.$1.$1.20$3,$3,$2,$2,$2,$2,$2,000  ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’192,1.672,1.963,2.033,2.233,3672.2,1.1. Total non-GAAP revenue and EPS growth as reported with the exception of FY14, which excludes ~$20 million one-time revenue contribution from restructuring of Roka  license, which increased operating margin and added $0.05 to EPS.
Reconciliations to GAAP are available in quarterly financial releases, at Hologic.com/investors and on the last  page of this report.
2.
Compound annual growth rates (CAGR) calculated based on reported rates0.4% 9.8% 5.4% 8.3% 4.3% 5.7% ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19(2.7%) 14.4% 17.4% 3.6% 9.9% 9.0% 8 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  9 By Geography By Division By Type 42+13+9+36+52+18+30+25+75+42% Breast & Skeletal 53% Consumables 13% GYN Surgical36% Diagnostics 29% Capital 9% Aesthetics 75% U.S. 18% Service25% OUSTrack Record of Sustainable and   Consistent Revenue and EPS Growth 2019 REVENUERevenue & CC Growth Rates ($ Millions) CAGR:  6.0%2Non-GAAP EPS ($ Millions) CAGR: 10.7% Introduction   The Globe  Culture & Society  GovernanceFounded:  1985 by Jay Stein and   David EllenbogenStock Exchange: Nasdaq: HOLX Employees:   6,400+ worldwide Global Patents: 3,000+Global Reach: Locations in 21 countriesGlobal Headquarters: Marlborough, MassachusettsIn preparing our first sustainability report, we completed a broad materiality  assessment to identify the key environmental, social and governance issues that are  most important to our stakeholders, including investors, employees and customers.
To manage this process, we formed a cross-functional internal steering committee  consisting of senior leaders from Operations, Finance, Legal, Human Resources,  Communications and Investor Relations.
The committee was formed with the goal of  identifying material sustainability topics and establishing a corresponding sustainability  reporting framework.
The committee held meetings with several shareholders to  solicit feedback; reviewed sustainability frameworks and guidelines such as those  published by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD); and  evaluated ESG data providers’ scoring methodologies.
These insights, along with our  management team’s contributions, helped us develop our materiality framework and  identify relevant topics for disclosure.
We are committed to incorporating these material issues into our business operations,  to focusing on the topics that matter most to our business and stakeholders, and to  continually evaluating our sustainability issues for future reporting.
THE COMPANY & THE GLOBE CULTURE & SOCIETY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • Product Innovation • Product Quality and  Compliance • Employee Health and Safety • Impact on the Environment • Talent • Engagement  • Diversity • Access to Healthcare• Board Role and Structure • Compensation • Risk Management • Policies and EthicsMateriality OverviewHologic strives to make business decisions that have a positive  impact environmentally, socially and economically, today and  in the future.
We accomplish this by promoting responsible  practices within our organization, among our suppliers, and in  the communities where we live and work.
Hologic manages our  environmental health and safety (EH&S) concerns as an integral  part of our business.
Hologic focuses its efforts in five main areas: Energy Efficiency and Emissions Promoting energy-efficient practices not only cuts costs and  improves operational performance, it also measurably decreases  our environmental footprint and greenhouse gas emissions.
Recycle and Reuse   As we enhance the technology behind our products, we also  ensure that they remain as environmentally friendly as possible.
Today, we’re reimagining how we design our products so that more  can be reused and recycled.Environmental Health and Safety In 2016, Hologic set a goal to reduce our greenhouse gas  emissions* by 10% by 2021, and we achieved this goal early  in 2019.
Going forward we are committed to building on this  progress and promoting energy-efficient practices to reduce our  environmental footprint and operating costs as our business grows.
Hologic Emissions Summary 2013  – 2019Solar panels at our Costa Rica facility supply 14% of the plant’s energy needs.
*As a percent of revenue.
2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  11  Introduction  The Globe   Culture & Society  Governance11  Environmental Health and Safety 13 Quality Management System 14 Environmental Packaging Initiatives 15 Green Energy Site InitiativesThe Globe Image left: San Diego office exterior.30,25,20,15,10,00012.0% 10.0% 8.0% 6.0% 4.0% 2.0% 0.0% Metric Ton CO 2e Metric Ton CO 2e / $MM FY Sales’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19 28,448 26,616 25,471 23,26,761 26,816 24,059●● 11.4% ●● 10.6% ●● 9.8%●● 9.5% ●● 8.3% ●● 7.5% ●● 6.9%Environmental Health and Safety The purpose of Hologic’s Quality Management  System (QMS) is to consistently meet  customer requirements and enhance customer  satisfaction.
The system is documented  and maintains effectiveness in accordance  with applicable standards and regulatory  requirements.
It is aligned with Hologic’s mission  and values, and constitutes a framework that  ensures continuous improvement.
The Hologic QMS includes multiple regulatory certifications,  such as the current ISO 13485:2016 certifications, which are held  at each of our sites.
In addition, each Hologic site is responsible  for maintaining an adequate organizational structure to ensure  that products manufactured there are designed and produced  in compliance with the requirements of the QMS.
Individuals  responsible for performing and verifying work affecting quality are  defined.
These individuals have the independence and authority  to assure product quality and conformance to specifications  and quality objectives.
Each site has an organizational chart  that clearly delineates roles and functional responsibility.
The Hologic QMS takes into account requirements unique to  our business and the regulatory requirements of the healthcare  industry.
Hologic has documented procedures for providing  complaint notification to the appropriate regulatory authorities.
These meet specified reporting criteria for adverse events and  issuance of advisory notices.
These records are maintained  in accordance with Hologic’s record retention program.
FIELD ACTION PROCEDURE Our field action procedure defines the requirements and  conditions under which a recall (field correction or removal),  customer notification, safety alert, market withdrawal, and/or field  safety corrective action take place.
This procedure applies to all facilities and organizations within  Hologic.
It applies to all products manufactured by or for us and  is applicable when a Hologic product, including software, has entered commercial distribution and is suspected of posing  a risk to patient health or violating applicable regulations.
All  Hologic entities follow the minimum requirements defined in our  Corporate Standard Operating Procedures.
If additional local  laws, regulations and/or standards are required, Hologic sites  are responsible for developing a local procedure to ensure full  compliance with applicable requirements.
COMPLAINT HANDLING PROCEDURE Customer satisfaction is a key priority.
Our procedures establish  requirements for complaint handling for marketed products in  accordance with established regulations across all sites that  are governed by our corporate quality system.
They also allow  flexibility, where appropriate, based on the nature of the products  and processes at the individual sites.
The requirements of these  procedures apply to all finished products manufactured or  distributed by Hologic.
QUALITY AUDIT PROCEDURE Our quality audit procedure provides parameters for our internal  audit program.
Internal audits are conducted to determine  whether our Quality Management System at all global sites  and regions complies with applicable internal and external  requirements, ensuring they are effectively implemented and  maintained.
All Hologic employees are required to complete training in Quality  System requirements and to acknowledge and adhere to our  Hologic Quality Policy.Recall Metrics FY’18 FY’Class 1 0 Class 2 2 Class 3 2 Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society  Governance 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  13 Supply Chain   Hologic promotes environmental and social responsibility across  our supply chain.
We work with our partners to design and enforce  policies that help us all achieve high compliance standards.
Hologic  is developing a Supplier Environmental and Social Responsibility  Code of Conduct, which will help promote awareness about our  sustainability efforts and reduce risks within our supply chain.
Chemical Management and Hazardous Waste We manage risk from hazardous chemical use through  training and procedures that minimize the risk of employee  exposure.
In addition, when new chemicals are ordered  through our purchasing system, the EH&S team is notified  so that the hazards can be evaluated beforehand.
We strive to prevent hazardous material releases into the  atmosphere, land or water.
We are committed to minimizing  the amount of hazardous waste generated, and we ensure  the safe and lawful disposal of regulated waste.
We apply  various disposal techniques, including recycling, reclamation,  waste to energy, fuel blending, wastewater treatment,  incineration, autoclave, and finally landfill for nonhazardous  materials when other alternatives are not available.
Workplace Health and Safety Every day, Hologic employees strive for zero health and  safety incidents in their workplaces.
We collaborate to  improve safety, increase productivity and reduce waste.
We comply in letter and in spirit with all applicable laws and  regulations and implement programs, policies, and procedures  to ensure compliance throughout the Company.
Where these  are not adequate to ensure protection of human safety, health  and the environment, we establish our own EH&S standards.
We employ management systems and procedures  specifically designed to prevent activities and/or  conditions that pose a threat to human safety, health or the  environment.
We minimize risk and protect our employees  and communities by employing safe technologies and  operating procedures, and by maintaining a robust business  continuity program to stay prepared for emergencies.Three of our manufacturing sites are ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001-   certified, and all other sites are audited annually against the  concepts of the ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 standards.
Implementation  of our EH&S Management System ensures that we are committed  to manufacturing our products in a safe and environmentally friendly  manner, while continuously improving our processes.
Hologic maintains health and safety programs conforming to best  practices in the industry.
Safety rules and procedures have been  developed that address behaviors and work practices that can  lead to accidents and injuries.
Safety performance is assessed  throughout the year by management and during annual perfor - mance reviews.
Hologic rewards positive safety performance and  encourages employees to:  • Refuse.
Employees are directed to stop work when an unsafe  condition or incident occurs, and are empowered to inform  and/or correct the unsafe condition.
• Report.
Employees must report unsafe acts and conditions,  safety incidents and injuries to their management and   EH&S immediately.
• Remind.
Employees are encouraged to remind each other to  work safely.
12 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report YearHologic   TRIRIndustry   Avg.
TRIRHologic   LWIRIndustry   avg.
LWIR 2016 1.6 3.3 0.4 0.2017 1.2 3.2 0.4 0.2018 1.0 3.2 0.4 0.9Recordable Case Incidents and Lost Workdays  Compared to Industry Averages TRIR  = Total Recordable Cases Incident Rate.
LWIR  = Total Lost Workday Cases Incident Rate.
Incident rate calculation = # of incidents * 200,000 / # hours worked in year.
Industry Average  provided by BLS (https://www.bls.gov/iif/oshsum.htm).
2017 & 2018 compared to 2017 BLS Data  for private industry >1,000 employees.
2016 compared to 2016 BLS Data for private industry  >1,000 employees.
Hologic’s Quality Management System:Quality Management System Determines the criteria  and methods needed to ensure that both the operation and control of quality processes  are effective.
Ensures the availability  of resources and information to support the operation and monitoring  of these processes.
Establishes processes  to identify and implement actions necessary to achieve planned  results and maintain their effectiveness.
Monitors, measures and analyzes all quality processes.
Establishes  and maintains records to demonstrate conformance and compliance with applicable regulatory requirements.14 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  15  Introduction  The Globe   Culture & Society  Governance Reusable Bins Reduce Waste and Improve Operational  Efficiency in Danbury, CT Several days a week, we transport between facilities large, blue  Hologic-branded bins containing the parts needed to produce  our flagship Genius™ 3D Mammography™ systems.
The bins have  replaced cardboard boxes on skids, reducing waste by eliminating  the need for about 2,000 boxes a year, and producing other  benefits such as ergonomic improvements, financial savings, and  reduced component damage during shipping.
“Not only is the manufacturing floor much cleaner now, but we  were able to utilize our space more effectively and improve our  efficiency—a nice win for us,” says Robert Salvatore, Supervisor  of Manufacturing Operations.
“Opening cardboard boxes created  dust, which would create artifacts inside the instruments, so we  now have fewer quality issues.”  Since implementation of the program three years ago, operators  are spending less time opening packaging and are receiving parts  in a more ergonomically friendly environment, which enables  them to operate more effectively.
And as part of our continuous  improvement journey, we are reinforcing the importance of  reusable packaging to our suppliers to ensure future growth  and sustainability within our Breast & Skeletal Health Division.
Reusable Containers Save Money, Delight Customers while  Reducing Waste for Diagnostics Business For Hologic’s Diagnostic Solutions business in San Diego, CA,  shipping the frozen components of molecular assays presented  a key environmental improvement opportunity.
Beginning in  2018, reusable containers were implemented for shipping these  components in bulk to distribution centers.
And in September 2019,  a reusable shipping program for sending assays directly to our  clinical laboratory customers was launched.
The reusable containers consist of a plastic box, which is kept cool  with a reusable insert containing “phase change material,” which  can maintain a temperature of -20 degrees Celsius for up to 120  hours.
The containers can be used for up to five years and are  projected to save shipping costs by 50%.
“Shipping the traditional way was wasteful,” says Allen Krist, Director  of Supply Chain for Manufacturing Operations.
“It involved non- recyclable polystyrene containers, filled with dry ice, which needed  to be disposed of by the customer.
The bulk reusable shipping  containers have already eliminated the need for an estimated  10,000 non-recyclable polystyrene containers and 200,000  pounds of dry ice in one year.
Our customers are excited for the new  program, which is making their lives easier.
So in addition to the cost  savings, it also helps with customer satisfaction and loyalty.”Sustainability Projects Receive National Recognition Hologic secured three coveted awards this year from some of   the world’s premier manufacturing groups.
The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) honored  Hologic’s Costa Rica facility for an innovative project that  increased environmental sustainability, while also boosting  financial performance.
“We are honored to receive this prestigious recognition  from NAM’s Manufacturing Leadership Council for the third  consecutive year,” says Patrick Brady, Senior Vice President  of Supply Chain at Hologic.
“This award is a testament to our  steadfast commitment to leverage technology and processes  to positively affect the environment and optimize operations.” The Costa Rica site received the Sustainability Innovation  Award by demonstrating a deep commitment to sustainability  through product design, metrics, and policies that ensure  sustainable practices internally and across supply networks.
Hologic’s energy savings program centered on reductions to  air pressure, energy consumption and overall carbon footprint.
In addition, the site installed a rooftop photovoltaic system that  will supplement grid power and reduce the facility’s electrical  cost by more than 14% annually.
“It’s a real accomplishment  to win alongside other leading companies, so it makes us  feel really proud about working at Hologic and striving to  improve the Company every day,” says Cristian Ledezma,  Facilities and Innovations Manager for Hologic Costa Rica.Second, Hologic’s Danbury, CT site received NAM’s Operational  Excellence Award by implementing LEAN principles to optimize  production testing and training, streamline processes, and  maximize the operational footprint for the testing of our market- leading Selenia® Dimensions® and 3Dimensions™ mammography  systems.
Our program reduced testing cycle time by more  than 50%, created more than 2,300 sq.
feet of additional  production space, and increased employee engagement through  participation in Kaizen continuous improvement activities.
In addition to the NAM award, our Costa Rica facility  recently received the Shingo Institute’s Silver Medallion  Award for Operational Excellence, as well as certification  from the National Electrical Power Distribution Company  ICE (Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad) for generating  99% of the site’s electricity from renewable resources.Green Energy Site Initiatives In San Diego, one of our largest manufacturing  facilities, we have installed a condensation  recovery system to conserve water.
Since 2009,  13.5 million gallons of water have been recovered,  which resulted in a $70,000 cost savings.Hologic employee preparing documentation prior to shipping assays, San Diego, California.Costa Rica employees planting 165 native trees throughout San Juan La Selva in Sarapiquí.Environmental   Packaging Initiatives gallons of conserved water13.MILLION$70,000Cost Saving37%53%54% 55%60% CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD 3:CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD  CHILD 6:CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD  CHILD 6:CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD  CHILD 7:CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD CHILD  CHILD 9:1’’’’’Image left: Hologic employees at National Sales Meeting, 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  17  Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society  Governance43%At Hologic, our culture is fueled by a talented and highly engaged workforce that  is focused on a common purpose: to enable healthier lives everywhere, every  day.
Our 6,400+ colleagues around the globe are intensely passionate—highly  committed to our customers, our patients and to one another.
For many of our  colleagues, it is personal, as they, their family or friends have been affected  by breast or cervical cancer, or the other diseases our products detect.
We know that highly engaged teams have a positive impact on our culture, our  performance, and most importantly, our customers and their patients.
Engaged  employees care about their work and about the performance of the Company, and  feel like their efforts make a difference.
The more an employee is engaged, the  more they will take positive actions to further the organization’s purpose.
Each year, we give our colleagues a voice to share their input and opinions about the  Company through our annual Employee Engagement Survey.
We measure 12 elements  of engagement using the Gallup Q12 survey and methodology.
Our employees assess  actionable areas including: Company mission/purpose; job expectations; manager  quality and interaction; and overall work relationships.
We identify our organizational  strengths and tackle areas for improvement through measurable annual action plans.
We have made steady progress on engagement.
In 2019, 92% of employees  participated in our survey, which is well above the industry benchmark of 65%  participation.
In addition, 60% of employees were highly engaged, with an engagement  ratio of nine engaged employees to every one actively disengaged employee.Engagement Fuels Our Purpose 17 Engagement 18 Diversity  19 Talent 20 Commitment to Pay Equity 21 Better Access, Better Rewards 22 Access to Healthcare 24 PhilanthropyCulture &  Society Employee Engagement Progress Highly Engaged Employees Engagement RatioConnection to Company Purpose Gallup average: 30% engagement Measures the number of engaged   to actively disengaged employees% of employees who strongly agree that the  Company’s purpose connects them to their jobs 49%50% 52%60% ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19Engagement CHILD Engaged CHILD Actively Disengaged18 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  Our people are our most important asset.
They deliver on our  Purpose, Passion and Promise to propel our organization forward.
We are focused on being the destination for the best talent.
At Hologic, we believe managers matter, and that each employee  deserves a talented, engaged leader.
In 2019, more than 71% of  employees had an engaged manager.
We are proud of this com - mitment, which has made a positive impact on team engagement.
We invest in our managers and high-potential talent to  drive effective leadership and develop our next generation  of leaders who we can also promote from within.
In 2019,  nearly 69% of our leadership roles were filled internally.
We launched new development programs for managers to  expand their leadership skills and inspire the performance  of their teams.
In 2019, nearly 500 managers and leaders  participated in our development programs, including Principles  of Great Management and Leading High Performing Teams .NEARLY500Talent is Our Passion Hologic managers   and leaders  have   participated in our   development programs69%of leadership roles  were  filled internally in 201971%of employees have an  engaged manager • Diversity in Senior Leadership Over the past several years, we have increased the  number of women on our leadership team—from zero women in 2015 to 21% women  in 2019.
We have also appointed women into several critical roles including Chief  Financial Officer, SVP and Chief Information Officer, SVP Global HR, Corporate  Secretary, and Chief of Staff.
• Diversity in Sales Leadership We have promoted several women into sales leadership  positions, and 50% of our sales U.S. leaders are women.
[See chart at right.] • Global Diversity As the Company has expanded globally, we have built and grown  local teams with in-country expertise and knowledge.
Today, our global workforce  represents 31 countries and speaks 22 languages.
• Diversity on Our Board of Directors Today, women comprise 38% of our Board of  Directors, including our lead independent director.
See information regarding board  diversity on page 29 .Diversity Drives Performance 17+40+42+1+ Age Diversity17% Baby Boomers *Sales leadership includes divisional sales  vice presidents in each regionOther 40% Gen X42% Gen Y/ Millennials 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  19 As global champions for women’s health, diversity is embedded into our Company  culture and DNA.
Our focus on the lives of women has enabled us to organically attract  a diverse workforce and build an inclusive ethos where different perspectives are  valued and respected.
This philosophy drives our innovations in women’s health and  creates a stronger, sustainable workplace.
Since 2015, we have actively worked to appoint, develop and promote high-potential  women into leadership roles across the Company.
This effort has been particularly  successful in developing a deep talent pipeline and succession path for women in  commercial leadership roles.
2019 Sales Leadership*New Hire Diversity 50% 30%50% US EMEA APAC2018 50% 50% 70%47% 44% Employees at Massachusetts Conference for Women.
Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society   Governance53% 56%■ Women  ■ Men ■ Women  ■ Men2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  21   20 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society  Governance65% 97% 55%78% 74%As a leader in women’s health, we believe everyone deserves   the chance to lead a healthy, productive life, and that starts inside  our walls.
Through our wellness programs, we invest in the physical, emotional  and financial well-being of our employees.
Our programs are  designed to give our employees peace of mind, so that they can  balance their commitments at home and at work.Better Access, Better Rewards U.S. Parental Leave   Hologic’s U.S. parental leave policy  enables employees to take time away  from work.
Birth and non-birth parents may  receive up to 16 weeks of job-protected  parental leave for the care of a newborn  or a newly adopted child.
The length of  this leave is among industry leaders.
Best-in-Class Cancer Screening   Our employees have access to our  best-in-class cervical and breast cancer  screening technologies.
We cover these  screenings for all enrolled in our medical  plan.
Additionally, employees and family  members battling cancer have access  to resources that help support their  clinical choices, get physical and emotional  support, and coordinate day-to-day life  throughout the cancer journey.
in Healthy Living  wellness program 54% industry benchmark 1of employees  completed mammog - raphy screening in 401K program 85% industry benchmark²of employees have  completed cervical  cancer screening in Employee Stock  Purchase Plan 30% industry benchmark³Employee Benefit Participation U.S. Employee Screening ComplianceWe promote equal pay for equal work as an  integral part of our compensation strategy.
We conduct both internal audits and external  third-party analyses on gender pay equity and  review the results globally against industry  benchmarks.
In 2018, we worked with an outside  firm to conduct a comprehensive gender pay  equity study for our U.S. salaried workforce.
The  independent study analyzed compensation  [base pay, merit increases, bonuses and long- term incentive grants] for men and women in  more than 4,000 roles across 80 job functions.
The study found no statistically significant pay  differences between men and women.
We also  completed a required pay equity audit in Sweden  and a voluntary pay equity analysis in the U.K.Commitment to Pay Equity  Image right: Employee in team meeting.
1 Virgin Pulse  2 Profit Sharing Council of America (PSCA) 2017 Plan Experience  3 Fidelity2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  23 22 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report   Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society  Governance Access to Healthcare The burden of HIV  —particularly in resource-limited settings  such as Africa—is tremendous.
Hologic’s Global Access  Initiative, launched during the International AIDS18 conference  in Amsterdam, is expanding access to diagnostic testing in the  countries that make up 90% of the global HIV disease burden.
“It’s extremely rewarding to have the opportunity here at Hologic  to provide what these low-resource countries need, a single price  for multiple tests,” says Tiffany Clarke, Director of Global Marketing,  Virology, for the Diagnostic Solutions division.
The first partnership announced within Hologic’s Global Access  Initiative was designed to provide seven countries in sub-Saharan  Africa with a single price for Aptima® assays for HIV, hepatitis B and  C, and human papillomavirus (the cause of most cervical cancers).
The partnership was announced during a press conference at  AIDS18, at which Jan Verstreken, Regional President of EMEA and  Canada, said: “It is not only a privilege but also a responsibility  for Hologic to be part of this initiative to improve access to crucial  diagnostic testing technology.” Partners in this effort include the Clinton Healthcare Access Initiative,  MedAccess, the United Kingdom’s Department for International  Development (DFID), Unitaid, the United States President’s  Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), and the African Society for  Laboratory Medicine (ASLM).Speaking in a session at AIDS18, President Bill Clinton pointed to the  partnership: “I’m very grateful that thanks to DFID, MedAccess and  Unitaid, we made an agreement with Hologic to expand access to  viral load [tests at] lower costs.”  Among the challenges with the project were issues with stability  during shipping, as well as the need to establish key procurement  agreements with PEPFAR and Unitaid, which provide diagnostics  funding to developing countries.
In 2017, the Hologic HIV assay  received prequalification from the World Health Organization, the  last hurdle before the current agreement could be reached.
“As excited as I am about this program,” says Clarke, “I will be even  more excited to NOT BE talking about HIV in Africa someday,  because our work will be done and we will have been successful.
Working toward that dream is what gets me to the office every day.”  “It is not only a privilege but also a responsibility for  Hologic to be part of this initiative to improve access to  crucial diagnostic testing technology.” Jan Verstreken, Hologic Top: Hologic’s Global Access team visits one  of our distribution partners in Uganda.
Right: Training session in Zimbabwe for our Panther®  molecular diagnostics system.
Hologic’s assays for  HIV and other viruses run on the Panther system.
“It’s extremely rewarding to have the opportunity  here at Hologic to achieve what I know these  low-resource countries need.”  Tiffany Clark, Hologic2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  25 24 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report   Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society  Governance At Hologic, we take the role we play as leaders in the  communities where we live and work seriously.
We give our  time and resources through philanthropic and charitable efforts  that provide immediate benefits to needy patients, but that  also further our business objectives over the long term, for  example, by promoting scientific literacy in younger generations.
Specifically, we provide monetary donations through our  corporate philanthropy committee, which includes employees  from various divisions and sites.
Over the last few years, we have  provided hundreds of grants, generally ranging from $1,000  to $30,000 each, to non-profit organizations near our facilities  that support women’s health and STEM (science, technology,  engineering and math) education.
Most commonly, we support  efforts by local hospitals to improve access to preventive  healthcare for underprivileged women.
In addition, examples of  our larger, multi-year partnerships include: • Ann’s Place in Danbury, Connecticut, which provides  community-based support for cancer patients and their  loved ones.
• The Massachusetts Science and Education Fair, which  advances science literacy and inspires new generations of  science and engineering leaders.
• The Ocean Discovery Institute in San Diego, California,  which uses ocean science to empower young people from  underserved urban communities.
• The Silicon Valley Education Foundation in San Jose,  California, which delivers and advocates for STEM  education that inspires underserved students.
• Susan G.
Komen San Diego’s Race for the Cure, the walk  to end breast cancer.Philanthropy  Hologic is committed to providing financial  support to healthcare organizations that share  our values and commitment to promoting  healthier lives.
We contribute to organizations  that champion the advancement of women’s  health, expand access to life-saving products  and screening, and provide medical education  regarding key women’s health issues.
In addition,  there are still far too many populations around  the world without access to greatly needed  diagnostic screening and medical treatment.
Hologic contributes to organizations that are  working to help underserved communities.
Grants, Charities   & Donations in Millions$3.$3.4 $3.’17 ’18 ’19Our employees throughout  the world are committed to  making a difference in their  local communities.
Here are a  few examples.
Hologic Cultivates  Environmental  Stewardship in  Costa Rica The Company’s team in Costa Rica  actively engages in their community.
They have championed projects   that aid breast cancer patients,   reward children for their academic   excellence, reduce energy consumption  and boost use of solar power.
Employees celebrated environmental  stewardship by planting 165 native  trees throughout San Juan La Selva  in Sarapiquí, a fire-scarred biological  corridor.
Many important species live  in that area, including sloths, bats,  amphibians, monkeys and birds.Helping Underprivileged  Children in California Thanks to our perinatal staff in  Sunnyvale, California, under-  privileged children in need of school  supplies received a backpack, which  included pens, pencils, flash cards,  rulers, a calculator, notebooks, folders  and other school supplies.
Also  included in the bags was a $40 gift  card for each student to buy shoes,  along with books, socks, a dental  hygiene kit and groceries.
“When you work at Hologic, you’re  working toward helping people.
It’s already in your spirit, so these  community-engagement activities  are an extension of that ethos,” says  Gail Marzolf, Senior Manager of  Product Development for Hologic in  Sunnyvale.
“It’s just a really caring  group of people we have here.”Building Housing for a  Family in Massachusetts Hologic employees in Massachusetts  and Connecticut sponsored the Metro  West Habitat for Humanity Build Day  in June 2019.
The project renovated a 110-year-old  home in Massachusetts.
This home  provided an affordable dwelling in a  safe community for a local family.Hologic Makes a Splash  Against Cancer in Spain In May 2019, four members of the  Hologic team in Spain swam in  the ocean, early in the morning, in  15-degree-Celsius waters.
Altogether,  Team Hologic swam 27 kilometers  for a project called “Un Mar de  Solidaridad” (“A Sea of Solidarity”),  which raises money for breast cancer  research.
“I am a friend and family member  of women affected by cancer,” says  Jose Yebra, Hologic’s Regional  Business Director for Spain, Portugal  and Italy.
“We have never done a  fundraising project like this one, but  we hope to organize many more.
Our  people at Hologic are passionate— and they make a difference.” Partnership with the  Cancer Foundation  of China to Provide  Free Cervical Cancer  Screening Hologic employees partnered with  the Cancer Foundation of China to  provide free cervical cancer screening  for 2,000 low-income women across  China.
In addition, Hologic employees  drove awareness by distributing a  guidebook with consumer information  about breast and cervical health.
Hologic Helps Provide Free  Mammograms to Tens of Thousands  of Women in Thailand Hologic donated several 3Dimensions™ mammography  systems for mobile mammography buses in support of the  Kanjana Baramee Foundation in Thailand.
The buses have  visited 103 out of Thailand’s 169 districts during the past  five years, providing free mammograms for about 20,000  low-income women.
At each location, the foundation offers  free 3D™ mammograms and holds educational events to  raise awareness about early detection and treatment as  fundamental components of optimal breast health.
2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  27 26 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society  GovernancePhilanthropy2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  29  Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society  GovernanceGovernance and Shareholder Engagement Our Board believes that good governance not only requires an effective set of specific  practices, but also a culture of responsibility and accountability throughout the organization.
Governance at Hologic is intended to achieve both.
Good governance ultimately  depends on the quality of an organization’s leadership, and our Board is committed  to recruiting and retaining directors and officers with proven leadership ability and  personal integrity.
The Board is engaged with management, with each other, and with the Company’s  shareholders.
Beginning in 2015, we implemented a year-round approach to shareholder  engagement.
In addition to discussions that take place before our Annual Meeting, each  year we initiate discussions in early fall during the proxy “off-season,” reaching out to our  largest investors to discuss business highlights, compensation and governance matters— or whatever else is on their minds.
Directors participate in these discussions as requested,  and are updated on calls in which they do not participate.
Our Board takes feedback from investors seriously.
Feedback from investors has helped  shape our compensation programs as well as our governance structures.
In fact, discus - sions with several of our largest investors helped shape our approach to sustainability  reporting, including the development of this report.
Board Transformation and Structure Our Board, which consists of a uniquely strong group of proven leaders in diverse  healthcare companies, has been transformed through purposeful refreshment over the  past five years.
2015  Eleven members–including two representatives of the Icahn Group 2019  Eight members–no activist investor representatives • Four of the directors on the Board in 2015 remain • Four new independent directors were elected to the Board since These new directors bring experience and expertise in areas important to the Company  and the Board, including: • Worldwide operations  • Leadership of global, innovative organizations • Financial expertise  • Healthcare industry experience The mix of experience, diversity and fresh perspectives on the Board serves to  strengthen management and the Company.
Given its smaller size, each member of the Board is highly engaged, contributing and having  his or her voice heard, while supporting and appropriately challenging management.
Our Board has an ongoing commitment to Board refreshment and to having highly  qualified, independent voices in the boardroom—which has resulted in an exceptionally  well-balanced group.
Image left: Steve MacMillan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, at 2019 National Sales Meeting.
Key Skills HEARTBEAT Healthcare Industry Experience Hands-Helping Executive Leadership Cog OperationalChart-line Business Development/ M&A globe-asia Global Experience dollar-sign Financial Expertise29 Governance and Shareholder Engagement,    Board Transformation and Structure 31 Roles of the Board 32 Compensation Philosophy and Structure 33 Policies and ProceduresCorporate  Governance38+37+25+ Age DiversityTenure Diversity ■ 0-5 Yrs   ■  6-10 Yrs   ■ >10 Yrs 38+62+ Geographic Diversity ■ Born in US   ■  Born Abroad50+38+12+38% 62%■ 60s   ■  50s   ■  40s30  2019 Hologic Sustainability Report 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  31 Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society  GovernanceBoard Composition The Board is composed of a majority of independent directors, and each of the three Board committees (Audit  and Finance, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance) is composed entirely of independent  directors.
The current membership of our Board and each committee is listed below.Roles of the Board Taking an active role in the Company’s strategic direction, the Board continually educates itself  on the Company’s products, markets, customers, competition and culture.
The Board assesses  risk, evaluates management’s performance, plans for successors and provides overall guidance  and direction to the Company.
Risk Oversight Our Board is responsible for risk oversight.
A fundamental part of risk oversight is understand - ing the risks that we face, the steps management is taking to manage those risks, and assessing  our appetite for risk.
Risk management systems, including our internal auditing procedures,  internal control over financial reporting and corporate compliance programs, are designed in  part to inform management about our material risks.
Our Board receives regular reports from management on matters relating to strategic and  operational initiatives, financial performance and legal developments, including the related en - terprise-risk exposures.
The involvement of the Board in the oversight of our strategic planning  process is a key part of its assessment of the risks inherent in our corporate strategy.
Each year, the Board also reviews an enterprise risk management report compiled by business  leaders who have assessed risks throughout the business over a three-year horizon, focusing  on financial risk, legal/compliance risk and operational/strategic risk.
The report details  the Company’s top 10 risks as well as mitigating actions and plans relating to those risks.
Underscoring the Board’s and management’s focus on enterprise risk are the individual  performance objectives of the executive leadership team for fiscal 2020, which are  again aligned with the Company’s top enterprise risks, as identified in the enterprise risk  management report.
While the Board has overall responsibility for risk oversight, each of the three standing commit - tees of the Board regularly assesses risk in connection with executing their responsibilities.
• The Audit and Finance Committee focuses on cybersecurity risk as well as financial risk,  including internal controls.
The Committee receives regular reports on cybersecurity as   well as an annual risk assessment report from the Company’s internal auditors.
• The Compensation Committee oversees risk relating to compensation.
Its independent  compensation consultant conducts a risk assessment of our executive compensation  programs, and members of our internal legal, human resources and sales operations  departments evaluate our other compensation programs to assess risk.
These results are  presented to the Compensation Committee annually.
• The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees all of our governance processes  and attendant risks.
ESG Oversight The Board recognizes the connection between ESG topics and risk mitigation, financial  performance and shareholder return .
The Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance  Committee oversees the Company’s reporting on ESG.
Furthermore, a steering committee of  senior members of management has been tasked with monitoring and reporting on key ESG  topics, and drafting an annual sustainability report.
The report is reviewed with the Nominating  and Corporate Governance Committee, and with the full Board annually in advance of publication.Director and Principal Occupation Age* Since Independent Current Committee Membership Stephen P.
MacMillan   Chairman, President and Chief  Executive Officer, Hologic, Inc.56 2013 • N/A Sally W.
Crawford   Former Chief Operating Officer,  Healthsource, Inc.66 2007 ✓ • Lead Independent Director  • Compensation  • Nominating and Corporate  Governance (CHAIR) Charles J.
Dockendorff   Former Chief Financial Officer and  Executive Vice President, Covidien plc65 2017 ✓ • Audit and Finance (CHAIR) Scott T.
Garrett   Senior Operating Partner, Water Street  Healthcare, Partners69 2013 ✓ • Compensation (CHAIR)  • Nominating and Corporate  Governance  Ludwig N.
Hantson Chief Executive Officer   Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc.57 2018 ✓ • Compensation • Nominating and Corporate  Governance Namal Nawana   Former Chief Executive Officer   Smith & Nephew plc49 2018 ✓ • Compensation  • Nominating and Corporate  Governance  Christiana Stamoulis   Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer, Incyte Corporation49 2011 ✓ • Audit and Finance Amy M.
Wendell   Former Senior Vice President, Strategy  & BD&L, Covidien plc59 2016 ✓ • Audit and Finance *As of January 1, 2020.
Image left: Sally W.
Crawford, Lead Independent Director, and Steve MacMillan, Chairman,  President and Chief Executive Officer, at Nasdaq Opening Bell.
October 2, 2019.
2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  33  Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society  GovernanceGovernance Policies and Procedures Employee Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct, which is publicly available here , outlines Hologic’s commitments to integrity and  ethical conduct.
It is a resource for all employees to identify the principles and values that Hologic is founded  upon and to understand what is expected of them.
All employees must read and understand the Code of  Conduct, as well as our policies and procedures, and strive to uphold the principles of integrity and ethics  in these written standards.
Some of the basic values that form the underpinnings of our Code include: 32  2019 Hologic Sustainability ReportPay for performance  We believe that our compensation  programs should motivate  high performance among our  Named Executive Officers  (NEOs) within an entrepreneurial,  incentive-driven culture and that  compensation levels should reflect  the achievement of short- and  long-term performance objectives.Competitive pay  We aim to establish overall target  compensation (compensation  received when achieving  expected results) that is  competitive with that being  offered to individuals holding  comparable positions at other  public companies with which we  compete for business and talent.Focus on total direct  compensation We seek to offer a total executive  compensation package that best  supports our leadership talent  and business strategies.
We  use a mix of fixed and variable  pay to support these objectives,  and provide benefits and  perquisites, where appropriate.Our Compensation Philosophy Our ability to compete effectively depends to a large extent on our success in  identifying, recruiting, developing and retaining management talent.
To this end,  the design of our executive compensation program and the decisions made by the  Compensation Committee of the Board are guided by the following principles: Hologic is focused on growth, efficient use of capital and shareholder value.
Consequently, the Company  uses measures of adjusted revenue, adjusted EPS, ROIC (return on invested capital), and relative TSR  (total shareholder return) for incentive compensation plans.
We believe this compensation structure drives  performance, while also ensuring management efforts are aligned with the interests of our shareholders.
ROIC The Compensation Committee introduced  ROIC as a performance metric in fiscal  2014 to hold management accountable  for generating greater returns on capital  allocated.
This metric: • Creates an effective balance of  growth and returns  • Holds management accountable for  the efficient use of capital • Links executive compensation to  value creationFREE CASH FLOW  In fiscal 2020, the Compensation  Committee added the measure of free  cash flow, which is an important metric   as the Company seeks to continue to  deploy capital efficiently with continued  business development activity and   share repurchases.RELATIVE TSR In addition to being well-received and  supported by our stockholders, use of  relative TSR: • Provides an external performance  measure, which complements the  internal ROIC measure • Links executive compensation directly  to stockholder value creationCompensation Philosophy and Structure Diversity Policy Our approach to diversity is covered in our employee Code of Conduct, and is supported internally through our  global Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy.
Hologic is fundamentally committed to the principle that  those we interact with, whether employee, vendor, partner, or customer, will be treated with respect, dignity, and  professionalism.
We are an equal opportunity employer.
It is Hologic’s policy to administer all human resource  actions and policies without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national  origin, ancestry, age, mental and/or physical disability, genetic information, veteran status, any military service  or application for military service, marital status, creed, citizenship status or membership in any other category  protected under state, federal or local law.
All employment decisions and personnel actions, including hiring,  promotion, compensation, benefits and termination, are and will continue to be administered in accordance with,  and to further the principle of, equal employment opportunity.
Performance of supervisors and employees alike  will be evaluated on the basis of work-related criteria.
Our global Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy explicitly prohibits any form of discrimination, harass - ment, sexual harassment or retaliation.
It also clearly outlines the complaint procedure process.
All employees  are required to undertake bi-annual anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training and to acknowledge and  adhere to our Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy.• Honesty  being truthful and upfront with  co-workers, customers, communities,  suppliers, distributors and shareholders • Integrity  delivering what Hologic promises  and standing up for what is right  • Respect treating each other with fairness  and dignity and appreciating the unique  abilities and strengths of each individual,  as well as the advantages of diversity• Trust building team spirit and confidence  by communicating openly and honestly  • Responsibility  taking the initiative to speak up  and report concerns regarding ethical conduct  and seeking reliable guidance in cases of doubt • Citizenship obeying the laws of all the  jurisdictions where the Company does business Human Rights and Fair Working Conditions Human rights and fair working conditions are covered in our employee Code of Conduct.
Hologic supports  fundamental human rights globally and is committed to a work environment that is free from human trafficking and  slavery.
We do not allow child or forced labor by our Company, nor do we knowingly work with business partners  that employ children or forced labor.
We also follow all applicable wage and hour laws.
Executive Stock Ownership Our Board believes that our directors and officers should hold a meaningful financial stake in the Company in order  to further align their interests with those of our stockholders.
Our CEO is expected to achieve equity ownership  in the Company with a value of five times his then-current base salary.
Each of our other NEOs (named executive  officers) and executive officers is expected to achieve equity ownership in the Company with a value of two times  his or her then-current base salary.
As of the end of fiscal 2019, Mr. MacMillan owned equity in the Company with a value of over 60 times his fiscal  2019 base salary when taking into account shares that have vested but have been deferred (but not including any  unvested equity).
This ownership makes him one of our 30 largest stockholders.
Intellectual Property and Data Privacy Protection Data privacy protection is covered in our employee Code of Conduct.
Information and information systems are  fundamental to daily operations and to the future success of Hologic, and our Board of Directors and manage - ment team are committed to preserving and protecting data and information systems.
We have several internal  policies and associated training courses that govern employee behavior and educate employees on how to  effectively manage risks.
The objective of our polices is to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability  of our information and systems.
34  2019 Hologic Sustainability Report Introduction  The Globe  Culture & Society  Governance 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  35 Image right: Breast and Skeletal Health software engineers.Ethics in Sales and Marketing Hologic is dedicated to the improvement of patient care through providing innovative, high quality, cost-effective  healthcare technology.
We recognize that adherence to ethical standards and compliance with applicable laws and  regulations is critical to achieving these objectives.
As a developer, manufacturer and supplier of diagnostics and  medical devices, Hologic is subject to laws and regulations designed to protect patients and consumers, improve  the quality of healthcare services, and help eliminate fraud and improper influence on medical judgment.
Our  products are closely regulated by government agencies, health ministries and regulatory authorities worldwide.
We prioritize integrity as a fundamental aspect of our sales and marketing practices.
Hologic is committed  to conducting its business ethically and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including the  U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other laws that prohibit improper payments to obtain a business  advantage.
In addition, as a medical products manufacturer, Hologic has the added responsibility of ensuring that  representations regarding our products are consistent with the approved label.
Our policies ensure employees  communicate clearly and accurately so that customers understand the features and benefits, but also limitations, of  our products.
Customers and patients, as well as our business partners and suppliers worldwide, rely on Hologic  for honest and accurate communication.
Our commitment to ethics is part of everything we do, and we take the  following steps to ensure our employees understand how to achieve business objectives with transparency,  honesty and integrity.
• We maintain and promote our Code of  Conduct, which sets forth our philosophies  regarding ethical business practices and  contains guidance specific to anti-corruption,  anti-bribery, ethical promotion and marketing  practices, among many other topics.
• We provide our Code of Conduct in eight  languages, so that substantially all our  employees can read it in their first language.
• Upon hire and bi-annually thereafter, employees  are required to take a Code of Conduct training  course, which provides examples and hypotheticals  on how the concepts contained in the Code of  Conduct can be applied to daily business practices.
This course is also offered in eight languages.
• We require all employees to certify to our Code  of Conduct on an annual basis to ensure their  continued understanding of its contents.
• We maintain various additional policies that  provide further detail on the topics covered  in our Code of Conduct.
Several of these are  also supported by online training modules that  employees take when they join the Company  and on a regular basis thereafter.
• We maintain a process by which all marketing  and promotional materials are reviewed by  subject-matter experts to ensure that claims  are accurate, supported by reliable data, and  consistent with the approved product labeling.
• We provide a compliance hotline that  is available internally and externally to  employees and third parties whereby they  may report compliance concerns to us.
• We employ a compliance team who has  responsibility for monitoring and following up on  compliance matters, maintaining and updating  compliance policies and procedures, and report - ing their activity to senior management, as well as  the Board of Directors, in order to ensure visibility  to compliance matters at all levels of the company.• Information Protection Policy • Information Security Policy • Information Security Management Policy • Social Media Policy• Acceptable Use Policy • Cybersecurity Training, Education,  and Awareness Policy • IS Risk Management PolicyIntellectual Property and Data Privacy Protection (cont.)   Our internal policies include the following:Ethical Interactions with Healthcare Professionals Hologic recognizes that healthcare professionals are critical partners in our ability to fulfill the Company’s mission.
In order for Hologic to understand the needs of the healthcare community and provide the highest quality products,  we must regularly work and interact with healthcare professionals.
Strict regulations govern our interactions with   healthcare professionals, which include physicians, nurses, and hospital or medical office administrators, and we   ensure our employees are aware of the potential compliance risks inherent in these interactions.
Our policies and robust employee training programs ensure that any interaction Hologic employees have  with a healthcare professional serves an appropriate and ethical business purpose, does not interfere with  the healthcare professional’s independent medical judgment, and does not violate local law or regulation.
The Company maintains systems, policies and training to ensure that any exchanges of value between the  Company and healthcare professionals are tracked, monitored and reported in accordance with applicable  payment disclosure laws.
We disclose payments and transfers of value made to physicians and other  healthcare entities in every state and country where disclosure is required by law.
In the United States,  this information is published on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Open Payments site.
Like our Code of Conduct and other compliance policies, our programs to ensure ethical interactions with  healthcare professionals include written policies, online and ad hoc training depending on an employee’s  function (for example, compliance training to sales professionals during their annual sales meeting).
In  addition, we use procedures and systems to help ensure we are meeting our requirements.
These include  online expense reporting platforms that include embedded features like required data fields and compliance  certifications prior to submission.
Finally, we employ individuals who have responsibility for monitoring  compliance, enhancing our programs as needed, and reporting to senior management and the Board.
Our internal policies include the following: • Medical Education and Healthcare Professional Interaction Policy • State Healthcare Professional Interactions (SHIP) Policy • Gifts and Other Incentives Policy • Healthcare Anti-Inducement and Anti-Kickback (HAK) Policy • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Other International Bribery Laws Policy  • Sunshine Act Policy36  2019 Hologic Sustainability Report 2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  37 Conflict Minerals Our policy is publicly available here .
Hologic supports the goal of ending human rights violations, violence and  harmful environmental impacts in the covered countries and around the globe.
We are committed to complying  with all requirements applicable to the Company under the Conflict Minerals rule.
Antitrust and Competition Laws Compliance Antitrust and competition laws compliance are covered in our employee Code of Conduct.
Antitrust laws are  generally designed to foster and preserve fair and honest competition within the free enterprise system.
Hologic  requires all employees to comply with all applicable antitrust laws, and we are committed to prohibiting any actions  that result in unfair methods of competition or restraint of trade.
Formal Grievance Escalation Process Hologic is an organization with strong values of responsibility and integrity.
We are committed to fostering an  environment in which open, honest communications are the expectation, not the exception.
We encourage  employees to feel comfortable approaching their supervisor or management in instances where they believe  violations of policies or standards have occurred.
However, in situations where employees prefer to place an anonymous report in confidence, they are encouraged  to use our hotline provider, which is hosted by a third party.
Employees can submit reports relating to violations  stated in our Code of Conduct, as well as ask for guidance related to policies and procedure.
The information  provided is sent to Hologic on a confidential and anonymous basis at the discretion of the employee.
Image right: San Diego employees celebrating International Women’s Day, 2019.GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation Year Ended Earnings Per Share 9/28/19 9/29/18 9/30/17 9/24/16 9/26/15 9/27/GAAP earnings (loss) per share (EPS) (0.76) (0.40) 2.64 1.16 0.45 0.Non-GAAP adjustments 3.19 2.63 (0.61) 0.80 1.22 1.Adjusted EPS 2.43 2.23 2.03 1.96 1.67 1.Adjusted EPS growth from prior year 9% 10% 3% 17% 11% 5-Year Average Adjusted EPS growth 10%2019 Hologic Sustainability Report  38  Introduction  Environmental  Social  Governance  Policies & EthicsEnabling healthier lives everywhere, every day.
Learn more at Hologic.com RECYCLE Printed on 100% Recycled Paper