1
Sustainability
Report2022
Making a World of Difference2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 1
From Our CEO   ................................. 2
A M
essage From  
Our Chairman,  
President and CEO 
 
............................. 2
Our Purpose   .................................... 4
H
ologic Overview  ................................ 5
H
ologic at a Glance 
 
............................ 6
R&D Spotlight  
........................................ 8
History of Innovation
 
........................... 9 
Shingo Prize: A World-Class  Culture of Excellence ....................... 10 
Materiality Assessment 
 
..................... 11 
U.N. Sustainable  Development Goals 
 
......................... 12
A Discussion With Our CFO: Our Sustainability Strategy 
 
............ 13Championing Women   ................ 14 
Hologic Global Women’s  Health Index 
 
........................................ 15 
Serving the Greater Good With  the WTA 
 
................................................ 18 
Global Access Initiative 
 
................. 20 
Project Health Equality 
 
................... 21
Helping Underserved  Women Worldwide 
 
.......................... 23
Our People   ...................................... 33
P
eople First 
 
........................................ 34
Key Indicators of  Engagement 
 
....................................... 35
Our People Drive  Our Passion 
 
........................................ 36
Our People Deliver  Our Promise 
 
........................................ 37
Raising the Bar: Championing  World-Class Managers 
 
................... 38
Employee Workforce  Composition 
 
....................................... 39Good Governance   ...................... 44 
Governance and Shareholder  
Engagement 
 
....................................... 45
Clinical Trial Governance 
 
.............. 48 
Supply Chain Management 
 
.......... 49 
Supplier Risk Management 
 
.......... 50 
Quality Management Systems 
 
.....51 
Workplace Health  and Safety 
 
........................................... 52 
Information Security  Governance 
 
........................................ 53
Governance Policies  
and Procedures 
 
................................ 54
Reporting Frameworks 
 
.................. 56
Sustainability Accounting  
Standards 
 
............................................ 56
Task Force on Climate-Related  Financial Disclosures 
 
...................... 58
Safe Harbor Statement 
 
.................. 60Table of 
Contents
Our Communities   ........................ 2 4
Strengthening Communities  
Through Philanthropy 
 
..................... 25
Supporting a Diverse  
Range of Causes 
 
.............................. 26The Environment   ......................... 2 7
Environmental Goals 
 
....................... 28
Hologic Costa Rica's Climate Leadership 
 
......................... 30
Environmental Initiatives in  Our Diagnostics Division 
 
................ 31
Climate Risks  and Opportunities 
 
............................ 322022 Hologic Sustainability Report 2 2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 2From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
A Message From 
Our Chairman,  
President and CEO
2Hologic's virtuous circle represents our corporate objectives. Dear Hologic Stakeholders,
Thanks to all of you for taking an interest in our sustainability journey.  
We are excited to showcase our 2022 report and the progress we  continue to make living into our purpose, passion and promise:
• Our purpose  is to enable healthier lives everywhere, every day. 
• Our passion  is to champion women’s health globally.
• 
 
Our promise  is The Science of Sure® , a commitment to provide healthcare 
professionals clinically differentiated, high-quality products.
Before diving into the highlights of this year’s report, I’d like to reflect on the theme of false 
choices raised in the introduction letter  to last year’s Sustainability Report. These false  
choices, in which something is presented as undoubtedly true or false, have defined  
much of today’s discourse — from politics to business to everyday conversations at the  
dinner table. Perhaps inevitably, the framing of false choices has also made its way into  
environmental, social and governance matters. 
At Hologic, we believe the best companies don’t have to choose between sustainability  
and maximizing performance. We commit to elevating women’s health worldwide while  
generating strong financial returns for our shareholders. As you will see from the breadth  
and depth of our initiatives, each objective is intimately connected to our business strategy 
because doing the right thing is fundamental to who we are.
Our financial success, sustainability strategy, commitment to helping more women — all while 
reducing our carbon footprint and acting ethically in all matters with our stakeholders — are intertwined. This relationship led to the creation of our virtuous circle. Through our deep focus on innovation and The Science of Sure , we generate financial returns and leverage these benefits to 
invest in groundbreaking women’s health initiatives like the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index, Project Health Equality and work with the World Economic Forum. These achievements enable us to elevate women’s health globally by advancing access, policy and awareness.2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 3 2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 3From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
Steve MacMillan at the World Economic Forum gathering in May 2022.
While we have made meaningful progress, our sustainability journey is by no means 
complete. Every day, we seek to improve and refine our strategy with heartfelt purpose, passion and promise. The women of the world deserve nothing less.
First, the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index , conducted annually in partnership with  
Gallup®, reveals unique insights directly from the experiences of women and provides a framework for making progress. As we highlight on page 15, the Index’s results underscore  that prioritizing women’s health is more critical now than ever. It is striking and disheartening  that even in developed economies, women’s health has taken a step back in the past year.  For example, more than 1.5 billion women worldwide lacked essential health screenings for cancer, heart disease, diabetes and sexually transmitted infections. This is unacceptable.  With the multiyear Index initiative, we will continue to bring awareness to women’s health  at the highest levels, as evidenced by our inaugural participation at the 2022 World Economic Forum’s gathering in Davos, Switzerland. We will relentlessly engage policymakers, business leaders, scholars, nonprofit advocates and others to join us in helping women around the  world live longer and better.
Second, with Project Health Equality , we collaborate with our partners to reduce the healthcare 
disparities gap that underserved women face. Research shows, for example, that Black women 
are almost 40% more likely to die from breast cancer compared to non-Hispanic white women. Together with our Project Health Equality partners, we aim to change these statistics. On page 21, we proudly highlight events, partnerships and programs that help women overcome systemic hurdles to high-quality healthcare.
Third, our global alliance with the  Women’s Tennis Association  (WTA) creates what WTA  
President Micky Lawler describes as a “fantastic partnership — couldn’t have asked for a  
better team of people, a better brand and a better shared mission.” We and the WTA, two champions for women, have joined forces to realize further progress.  
As the WTA’s lead sponsor, Hologic works with the sport’s legends and athletes to increase 
awareness of preventive care, advance equality for women on and off the court as well as raise money for the charitable ACEing Cancer program to fund researchers and nonprofit groups battling women's cancers (page 18). 
Fourth, as detailed on pages 34-35, our employee engagement is best-in-class. It is a direct  
reflection of our vibrant culture, created by teams of people committed to living our  
organization’s purpose. In 2022, Hologic received Gallup’s Exceptional Workplace  
Award for the second year in a row. As I speak with both long-serving and new employees,  
our purpose shines through as a strong motivator for continued success.
Steve MacMillan  
Hologic Chairman, President and CEOOn that note, we are excited to share four highlights and key initiatives that illustrate our commitment to helping improve women’s health, as well as the lives of those who live in communities where Hologic conducts business:2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 4From Our CEO      Our Purpose       Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
Our Purpose
Hologic Overview  ................................................. 5
H
ologic at a Glance
 
.............................................. 6
R&D Spotlight  
......................................................... 8
History of Innovation 
 
........................................... 9 
Shingo Prize:  
A World-Class Culture of Excellence
 
........... 10
Materiality Assessment 
 
...................................... 11 
U.N. Sustainable Development Goals 
 
......... 12
A Sustainability Discussion With Our  CFO, Karleen Oberton
 
....................................... 13At Hologic, we live our purpose — to enable 
healthier lives everywhere, every day — bringing our virtuous circle to life. Our innovative, life-changing technologies lead to continuous  
business growth and financial success. These  
gains allow us to reinvest in programs and  
initiatives designed to nurture and support women’s health globally.2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 5From Our CEO      Our Purpose       Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
From the day we opened our doors in 1985,  
Hologic has consistently introduced clinical advances that transform the delivery  
of healthcare:
•
 
 W
e developed the first dual-energy  
X-ray absorptiometry system  for  
evaluating osteoporosis.  
•
  
Our ThinPrep® Pap  technology is used to 
detect abnormal cells on the cervix, often 
before they develop into cervical disease. 
•
  
Our Genius® 3D Mammography™  exam has 
revolutionized breast cancer detection for women of all ages and breast densities. 
•
  
Our minimally invasive treatment options  
restore quality of life for women facing uterine fibroids and abnormal uterine bleeding.
•
  T
o help fight COVID-19, we developed  
the Panther Fusion® SARS-CoV-2 Assay  and the Aptima® SARS-CoV-2  Assay , 
molecular diagnostic tests to detect the  novel coronavirus.
•
  K
ey assays in our Aptima®  portfolio, which 
run on our Panther®  molecular diagnostics 
system, have a proven record for accurate detection of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) including chlamydia, gonorrhea, human papillomavirus (HPV), trichomoniasis and vaginitis (BV and CV/TV — detailed on page 8), among other diseases.Hologic Overview — The Science of Sure®
Hologic delivers detection, diagnostic and surgical innovations rooted in science, driven by technology and inspired by a desire to improve the health  
of millions of people everywhere around the world. Our solutions help healthcare professionals diagnose and treat their patients with ever-greater  
certainty and peace of mind.2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 6From Our CEO      Our Purpose       Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
Hologic at a Glance
12% 
Capital
74% 
Consumables14% 
ServiceBY TYPE2022 RevenueFounded:  
1985  by Jay Stein and David EllenbogenFast Facts 
NASDAQ Stock Exchange:  HOLXChairman, President and CEO:  Steve MacMillan
Global Patents:  4,100+
Global Headquarters:  Marlborough, MassachusettsEmployees:  ~7,000 worldwideFiscal 2022 Revenue:  $4.86 billion
Estimated Number of Lives Impacted: 300+ million in fiscal 2022Hologic is a fundamentally different company than it was prior to the pandemic. We are more purpose-
driven, more global, with more diverse, recurring revenue. Our strength enables us to make a unique difference, with a core focus on helping more women around the world.
27% 
Breast & 
Skeletal11%  
Surgical
62% 
DiagnosticsBY DIVISION
Awards Received: 
• 
 D
rucker Institute’s Best-Managed  
Companies
• 
 F
ast Company’s 2022 List of World’s  
Most Innovative Companies
• Gallup Exceptional Workplace Award
• IMV ServiceTrak Awards• LinkedIn 25 Top Healthcare Companies• NorthFace Service Award• Shingo Prize• The Boston Globe Top Places to Work• 
  T
he San Diego Union-Tribune Top  
Workplaces
Global Reach:  
Locations in 36+ countries with direct  staff and a market presence in more  than 100 countries71% 
U.S.29% 
Intl.BY GEOGRAPHY
World-Class Employee Engagement 
“My sister was diagnosed with terminal breast cancer at age  
40, and she passed on eight years later. The world fell in  
front me, and I told myself that this should not happen  
to other women in this world. I wanted to make my sister  
proud of my career choice. Hologic stands out because  
of our focus on championing women’s health and preventive 
care. Hologic is the connection I need to make a difference  
in women’s lives.”
Linda Seah  
Vice President, General Manager for Emerging Asia2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 7From Our CEO      Our Purpose       Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
1. 
                                                            Year Ended
Earnings per share (EPS) 9/24/22 9/25/21 9/26/20 9/28/19 9/29/18 9/30/17 9/24/16 9/26/15 9/27/14
GAAP earnings (loss) per share 5.13 7.21 4.21 (0.76) (0.40) 2.64 1.16 0.45 0.06
Non-GAAP adjustments 0.89 1.20 (0.23) 3.1912.632(0.61) 0.80 1.22 1.45
Adjusted EPS 6.02 8.41 3.98 2.43 2.23 2.03 1.96 1.67 1.51
5-year average adjusted EPS growth 33%$2,511 $2,705 $2,833 $3,059 $3,218 $3,367 $2,847 $3,473 $3,433**
$1.46 $1.67 $1.96 $2.03 $2.23 $2.43 $3.98 $8.41 $6.02$929$2,160
$1,431
0.4%9.9% 5.4%8.3%4.3% 5.7%12.1%46.5%
-12.3%
-2.7%14.4% 17.4% 3.6% 9.9% 9.0%63.8%111.3%
-28.4%**$5,632
$3,776$4,863
0$1,000$2,000$3,000$4,000$5,000$6,000
$0.00$1.00$2.00$3.00$4.00$5.00$6.00$7.00$8.00$9.00
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022$2,511 $2,705 $2,833 $3,059 $3,218 $3,367 $2,847 $3,473 $3,433**
$1.46 $1.67 $1.96 $2.03 $2.23 $2.43 $3.98 $8.41 $6.02$929$2,160
$1,431
0.4%9.9% 5.4%8.3%4.3% 5.7%12.1%46.5%
-12.3%
-2.7%14.4% 17.4% 3.6% 9.9% 9.0%63.8%111.3%
-28.4%**$5,632
$3,776$4,863
0$1,000$2,000$3,000$4,000$5,000$6,000
$0.00$1.00$2.00$3.00$4.00$5.00$6.00$7.00$8.00$9.00
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
*  T otal non-GAAP revenue growth in millions. Growth rates in constant currency. As reported except FY14, which excludes  
~$20 million one-time revenue from amending Roka license. Results include contributions from the Blood Screening business 
that was divested in 2017, the Medical Aesthetics business that was acquired in 2017 and divested in 2020, and other smaller acquisitions. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
**
 D
ecline in Total Revenue excluding COVID Assays is driven by lower capital sales in our Breast Health business, as a result of 
semiconductor supply chain shortages.*  N on-GAAP EPS as presented in our earnings releases except FY14, which excludes ~$0.05 one-time contribution from 
amending Roka license. Results include contributions from the Blood Screening business divested in 2017, the Medical Aesthetics business acquired in 2017 and divested in 2020, and other smaller acquisitions.
**
 D
ecline in Non-GAAP EPS is driven by less COVID testing revenue and lower capital sales in our Breast Health business,  
as a result of semiconductor supply chain shortages.Base Business ex. COVID Assays COVID AssaysHologic at a Glance (continued)
Total Revenue*
GAAP to Non-GAAP ReconciliationNon-GAAP EPS*
Numbers may not foot due to rounding. 
1. Assumes dilution of 1.9 million shares for the year ended September 28, 2019.  2. Assumes dilution of 2.8 million shares for the year ended September 29, 2018.2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 8From Our CEO      Our Purpose       Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
R&D Spotlight: BV and CV/TV Aptima® Assays
The healthcare markets we participate in are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. 
Investment in research and development (R&D) is critical to driving our future growth.
Hologic's longstanding commitment to R&D across all divisions is clear: we've invested nearly $1.9 billion globally over the past eight years, including approximately $282 million in 2022.  
Hologic’s R&D pipeline remains robust, with strong product launches including our BV and CV/TV Aptima® assays, which diagnose 90% of vaginitis cases including bacterial vaginosis (BV),  candidiasis (CV) and trichomonas vaginalis (TV).
 Vaginitis remains the leading reason why millions of women visit their OB/GYN each year, making the Aptima® BV and CV/TV assays a  
game-changer in women's health. 
What sparked the idea for these assays?
Hologic is committed to developing innovative technology 
grounded in evidence and clinical data. This is how we deliver the best results for our patients. Vaginitis is a complex health issue impacting millions of women and can result in a long journey for patients seeking answers to their vaginal symptoms and discomfort. It’s incredibly personal. Many women feel embarrassed, self-conscious and frustrated by their symptoms. 
New methods for diagnosing vaginitis infections were 
needed. We developed these assays over a multi-year period that began by establishing close relationships  with experts in microbiology and clinical medicine from around the world. We used these insights to develop our Aptima® BV and Aptima® CV/TV molecular assays, allowing for a more accurate vaginitis diagnosis, which  is essential to treat and help reduce the potential  for recurrent or persistent infections. Why is it so important for women to get tested 
for BV and CV/TV?
Diagnosis can be especially complicated due to the 
prevalence of co-infections. For example, one in five patients with symptoms of vaginitis have two causes of vaginitis. Accurate diagnosis is complicated by the subjective nature of traditional methods, which often leads to misdiagnosis and ineffective treatment. The inclination for many women to self-diagnose and self-treat before seeking treatment from their healthcare provider further exacerbates the problem.
When left untreated, these infections can put women 
at increased risk for sexually transmitted infections, pelvic inflammatory disease or other fertility-related complications. Therefore, it is particularly important for providers to accurately identify and treat the underlying cause of vaginitis symptoms. Nucleic acid amplification tests (NAATs) offer a more objective, comprehensive and accurate method for diagnosing the cause of vaginitis compared to traditional methods.What does the future look like for BV and  
CV/TV testing? 
In 2021, the CDC updated its STI Treatment Guidelines . 
The guidelines now note that vaginitis can be diagnosed by NAATs to detect the underlying cause of infection of vaginitis in symptomatic women. We are encouraged that the CDC is reinforcing the value of these molecular assays and hope it will foster faster adoption among clinicians.  
We look forward to more healthcare providers and 
laboratories using these CDC-recommended assays to  
offer better clinical management for their patients. Acessa® launches ProVu® , 
a laparoscopic system 
for eﬀective and safe treatment of uterine ﬁbroids.FDA approves the Fluent® Fluid Management System, used to streamline hysteroscopic procedures. 
19871985 1988
19951996
20032002
2008
20092010
20112012
2015
2014FDA clears Clarity HD high-
resolution 3D™ imaging and the SmartCurve™ breast stabilization system, providing superior image quality and a clinically proven solution for a more comfortable mammogram.2019 2018
20192020
FDA grants Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for the Panther Fusion® SARS-CoV-2 Assay and Aptima® SARS-CoV-2 Assay, molecular diagnostic tests 
detecting the novel coronavirus.Introduction of CE-marked Genius™ Digital Diagnostics System.Biotheranostics launches Breast Cancer Index™ , a test 
that helps breast cancer survivorsmake clearer decisions aboutextended endocrine therapy.    FDA approves the break-through Selenia Dimensions®digital tomosynthesis systemwith the Genius® 3D Mammography™ exam.      
 2001
FDA clears the Panther®system, an automated,integrated molecularplatform for use with theAptima® Combo 2® Assay.  
2018
2021 20212017FDA a pproves the
Rapid fFN® test.Hologic introduces the
ﬁrst d ual-energy X-ray
absorpti ometry system for
evaluating osteoporosis. 
FDA clears the ﬁrstnucleic acid test. FDA clears the ﬁrstmolecular diagnostictest kit for a sexuallytransmitted infection.  FDA approves the Selenia
®
mammography system—thebeginning of a new era inbreast cancer screening. 
FDA approves the NovaSure
® endometrial 
ablation treatment for abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB). FDA a pproves the
ThinPrep
® Pap test, 
a liquid-based cytology for cervical cancer scree ning. 2002
FDA approves the ﬁrstnucleic acid test forscreening donated blood prior to transfusion. 
Release of the Tigris® 
DTS® system forautomated screening of sexually transmittedinfections. 
FDA approves theProcleix® Ultrio®* triplexblood screening assay forHIV-1, hepatitis B and C. FDA approves the MyoSure®tissue removal procedure forthe hysteroscopic treatmentof uterine tissue, includingﬁbroids and polyps. 
2021FDA clears the use of the bone densitometer for assessing critical health problems, including/uni00A0osteoporosis.
Introduction of CE-marked virology portfolio, including Aptima® HIV, HCV and HBV assays, along with the Aptima® M. genitalium/uni00A0Assay.Mobidiag develops and markets new near-to-patient molecular testing system.
Introduction of CE-marked Aptima® CMV Quant Assay in Europe, Hologic’s ﬁrst assay for organ transplant patients. 
2022Introduction of CE-mark approval of Panther Fusion® EBV Quant Assay, Panther Fusion® BKV Quant Assay, Panther Fusion® SARS-CoV-2/FluA/B/RSV Assay and Novodiag® RESP-4 Assay.
Bolder Surgical launches CoolSeal® platform, including tools used for vessel sealing, dividing and dissecting.FDA approval of Aptima® BV and CV/TV assays, which provide an accurate and objective method for diagnosing vaginitis.2016FDA clears the new Aﬃrm®/uni00A0prone breast biopsy system.
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 9From Our CEO      Our Purpose       Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
History of Innovation2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 10From Our CEO      Our Purpose       Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
Hologic Costa Rica has more than 1,000 employees.Hologic Costa Rica earned the 
prestigious Shingo Prize , an 
assessment of how a company's culture drives world-class results  
and the guiding principles of the Shingo Model™: 
• Respect every individual.
• Lead with humility.• Seek perfection.• Embrace scientific thinking.• Focus on process.• Assure quality at the source.• Think systematically.• Create consistency of purpose.
• Create value for the customer.Shingo Prize: A World-Class Culture of Excellence
The Shingo Prize “affirms the purpose-driven ethos of 
Hologic Costa Rica. It reflects what is at the heart of our mission: pursuing continuous improvement that allows us to deliver services and products of the highest quality with the goal of enabling healthier lives everywhere, every day,” said Nilo Caravaca, Vice President of Supply Chain and Manufacturing Operations, Costa Rica “ S hingo Prize recipients are in a  
class of the best organizations in  
the world, regardless of industry  
or country,”
  K
en Snyder, executive 
director of the Shingo Institute, said 
in announcing this year’s award   
for Hologic .The Shingo Prize represents  
the culmination of Hologic  
Costa Rica’s employee-centered  
culture, which emphasizes  
empowerment and commitment  
in every job function and  
at every job level.
Continuous Stewardship:
Multiple projects (page 27)  
help the environment  
and reduce expenses.Continuous Development: 
More than 75% of openings are  
filled with internal promotions.
Continuous Community:
Provide on-site health services, host science, technology, engineering and math ( STEM ) education programs for 
children and distribute care packages for workers’ families during the year-end holiday season.Continuous Improvement:
An estimated 6,385 ideas have been implemented in the past  four years.
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 11From Our CEO      Our Purpose       Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
A key component of developing our 2022 Sustainability Report included the evaluation of our materiality 
assessment to confirm the key environmental, social and governance issues that are most important to  
our stakeholders.
Our disclosures are managed by a cross-functional internal 
steering committee consisting of senior leaders from Operations, Finance, Legal, Human Resources, Global Communications and Investor Relations. The ongoing goal of this committee is to identify material sustainability topics and establish a corresponding sustainability reporting framework. 
The committee relies on shareholders’ feedback, sustainability 
frameworks and guidelines such as those published by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures and the U.N.’s Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals. In addition, we use external benchmarking and data providers’ scoring methodologies to identify new areas of focus and opportunities. These insights, along with our management team’s contributions, inform our materiality framework and help us identify relevant topics  for disclosure. 
We are committed to incorporating these topics into our 
business operations, to focusing on the topics that matter  most to our business and stakeholders as well as evaluating  our sustainability topics for the future.Materiality Assessment
Stakeholder 
Groups Championing Women,  
Our Communities and  
the Environment
• Access to healthcare  
• Product innovation  
• The environment  
• Philanthropic impact
 
Our People
• Talent  
• Engagement  
• Diversity
 Good Governance
• Board role, composition and structure  
• Compensation  
• Risk management  
• Policies and ethics  
• Sustainable supply chain  
• Product quality and complianceCustomers Employees 
Healthcare 
Organizations Distributors Investors
Regulatory 
Agencies and 
Governments Patients
Industry 
Leaders Suppliers 
The Local 
Communities  
Where We 
Operate Sustainability Topics2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 12From Our CEO      Our Purpose       Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
Hologic’s Commitment to  
U.N. Sustainable Development Goals
When performing our materiality assessment,  
we considered Hologic’s unique opportunity  
to make a positive impact on the world.  
We identified the following areas most relevant  
to our business:  
 G
ood Health and Well-Being (SDG 3)  
 Q
uality Education (SDG 4)  
 G
ender Equality (SDG 5)  
 A
ffordable and Clean Energy (SDG 7)  
 D
ecent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8)  
 I
ndustry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9)  
 R
educed Inequalities (SDG 10)  
 
 R
esponsible Consumption and 
 P
roduction (SDG 12)The Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs) were adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015 with an aim 
to end poverty, protect the environment and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity.
We believe we have a key role measuring the 
state of women’s health globally. The Hologic Global Women’s Health Index highlights the importance of women’s health represented in SDG 3, Good Health and Well-Being.
The results from Hologic’s Global Women’s 
Health Index, as detailed on page 15,  are sadly consistent with recent gender findings from the U.N.’s Progress on the Sustainable Development Goals. Throughout the pandemic, women globally have experienced setbacks across a variety of crucial measures such as disruptions to essential health services, acute employment losses, and declining availability to mental health services. In fact, only one of the U.N.’s 18 indicators  that track the state of women’s health is defined as being “close to target.” 
We are committed to addressing inequities 
relevant to the global state of women’s  health. We intend to use data from Hologic’s Global Women’s Health Index, in conjunction with gender findings from the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, to influence decision-makers and improve access to essential healthcare for women.2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 13From Our CEO      Our Purpose       Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
A Sustainability Discussion With 
Our CFO, Karleen Oberton
The key aspects of Hologic’s sustainability efforts and impact:“I would like to share Hologic’s sustainability strategy, goals and journey of growing leadership. 
This is an increasingly important area of focus for our leadership team. I am incredibly proud to be part of an organization whose purpose-driven mission authentically informs our business strategies and initiatives. ”
Karleen Oberton  
Chief Financial Officer
Our Approach to Sustainability
We focus on areas where we know we 
can make a unique difference, such as providing access to our best-in-class products for underserved communities, funding STEM  education and driving  
global policy change to improve early detection and treatment of disease.
Our sustainability strategy is directly 
linked to our business strategy. By driving innovation, we deliver strong financial results, enabling us to invest in key initiatives such as the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index  and Project Health  
Equality . By helping more women, we are 
driving meaningful societal benefits.Development of the 
Sustainability Industry
It is clear this expanding investment 
thesis will only strengthen over the next few years. Hologic finds this encouraging, and we are excited to share our story and grow our investor base with shareholders who share our vision of helping more women. 
We also see sustainability becoming 
more formalized, with more disclosure expectations and reporting. Our teams are working to understand how newly proposed rules may impact Hologic and how to best prepare as an organization.
Finally, we believe as the movement 
towards sustainability gains further traction, this will create more opportunities to attract and retain key talent. We have confidence that connecting Hologic’s purpose, passion and promise with our business strategy will resonate strongly with the next generation of leaders.CFO’s Role in Sustainability 
Oversight
Traditionally, a CFO’s job is to ensure 
financial returns. In today’s world, the role has evolved. It’s “and” instead of “or.” In other words, how do I ensure financial return AND make a difference?
The difference between a good CFO and 
a great one is the ability to deliver financial success while also making the world a better place for stakeholders — and for society more broadly. 
Connecting Hologic’s sustainability 
strategy with our business strategy helps me lead in a purpose-driven way, deliver financial returns to our shareholders  
and drive meaningful initiatives to improve t
he lives of our customers and patients 
around the world.Our Sustainability Momentum 
and Impact
We formalized our sustainability journey in 
2019. It was the same year we launched our first annual sustainability report. Since that time, we’ve come a long way.
We describe this sustainability journey as  
one of continuous improvement. At the  
start, we set out to define what was central  
to our mission with Hologic’s purpose, 
passion and promise. By expanding our societal footprint, launching important initiatives such as the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index, Project Health Equality and the Global Access Initiative , 
we help more patients globally, where we know we can make a difference based on our unique capabilities as an organization.
As we move forward on our sustainability 
journey for 2023 and beyond, we are excited to build on our progress and unwavering commitment to help more women.
2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
14
Championing  
Women
We see so often that women put themselves last,  
often to their detriment. Despite advances in healthcare, 
women’s health is not a priority in much of the world.  
In 2022, health situations for women and girls did  
not get better. The divide between women in high-income and low-income economies grew even larger than the year before. Hologic works tirelessly to  
ensure that women’s health is prioritized and that  
more women can access world-class technologies  
that have the potential to improve and save lives.Hologic Global Women’s Health Index  ......15
S
erving the Greater Good  
With the WTA 
 
....................................................... 18
Global Access Initiative 
 
.................................. 20
Project Health Equality 
 
.................................... 21
Helping Underserved Women Globally .....23From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
15
Hologic Global Women’s Health Index
A Powerful Framework for Understanding the State of Women’s Health
This breakthrough survey, conducted annually in partnership with Gallup®, measures the experiences of women and girls across 122 countries 
and territories, accounting for 94% of the female global population aged 15 and older. The latest findings underscore that the disparities in women’s health continue to grow, making the need for prioritizing women’s health policies more important than ever. These key results reflect the five dimensions of health (Preventive Care, Emotional Health, Opinions of Health and Safety, Basic Needs and Individual Health) that together account for more than 80% of variances contributing to women’s life expectancy.
Increased Longevity  |  Routine visits with healthcare professionals correspond with up to two more years of life expectancy for women,  
even after accounting for differences in per-capita GDP across countries and territories.Preventive Care
Worldwide, 40% of women said they  
had not gone to a healthcare  
professional in the last year.
Similarly, only 60% of women  said they 
were tested for any type of cancer, 
diabetes, blood pressure or STDs/STIs. 
Opinions of Health and Safety
More than 37%  of women worldwide 
said they did not feel safe walking 
alone at night, up from 32% in 2020, the first year of the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index.
Individual Health
1 in 4 women said they experienced health problems that prevent them from doing 
things people their age normally could do. Basic Needs
About 1 in 3 women said they 
struggled to afford adequate food or 
shelter for themselves or their families during the previous 12 months.Emotional Health
More than 4 in 10 women worldwide 
said they experienced worry during the previous day, a record high since the Gallup World Poll began polling on this topic a decade ago. Record percentages of women also experienced stress (41%), sadness (32%)  and anger (26%) .  From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 16* Countries in gray do not participate in the Gallup World Poll and are not included in the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index. Women’s Health Around the World
22
70
0 100
22
700 100
The World Has Much Work To Do To Improve Women’s Health
With the overall score of just 53 out of 100 on the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index — one point lower than the previous year’s  
score — the health of the world’s women and girls did not improve last year. Scores ranged from a high of 70 in Taiwan to a low of  22 in Afghanistan. See how your country ranks at womenshealthindex.com.
Index Score2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
17A Worldwide Call to Action    
Hologic continues to meet with policymakers and other stakeholders at events around the world, including the prestigious  
World Economic Forum  (WEF) and Concordia Annual Summit , to discuss how women’s health can be improved using data  
from the study and other resources.
CONCORDIA ANNUAL SUMMIT
Timed to the United Nations General Assembly in New 
York City, Hologic released data from the second year of the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index during the Concordia Annual Summit. Dr. Susan Harvey, Hologic’s Vice President of Global Medical Affairs, joined Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, former president of the Republic of Croatia, and Dr. Lia Tadesse, health minister for the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, at the summit for a discussion about women’s health. An Innovative Partnership With 
the World Economic Forum
Hologic’s global leadership in women’s health anchors our work with WEF, an important convener of the public and private sectors to address the world’s most pressing issues.  This collaboration includes Hologic’s key role in the Women’s Health Initiative at WEF. 
For all the progress we have made in the 
last few decades, women’s health around the world is still lagging despite the clear evidence that improving women’s health results in stronger families, higher income  and more effective, thriving societies.  The Women’s Health Initiative draws global focus to the need for investment in women’s and girls’ health. It supports and amplifies leading efforts; connects ecosystems across sectors; and engages global leaders and communities through sustained, impactful dialogue and the enablement of action plans.
There are three active projects in the 
Women’s Health Initiative: 
•
   P
rotecting women’s and girls’ reproductive 
and maternal health.
• 
 C
apturing women’s and girls’ perspectives 
on cancer care.
• 
 O
ffering family planning programming  
to protect the health of vulnerable women  
and girls. 
Hologic contributes to each of these projects through the provision of data and other insights from the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index — findings that provide important perspective at the global, regional and country levels.
Left: Jan Verstreken, Tanja Brycker, Laura Gillespie 
and Steve MacMillan at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Dr. Harvey and other Concordia Summit panelists discuss the state of women’s health. 
2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
18Serving the Greater Good  
With the WTA
Two Champions for Women Join Forces On and Off the Court
“We couldn’t ask for a better partner 
to champion women’s health. We are 
grateful for Hologic’s support of ACEing 
Cancer and because of it, we will 
be able to expand our ability to help 
women around the world.” 
Ann Austin, WTA  
Vice President of Community Development  
and Charitable ProgramsACEing Cancer Program
Hologic proudly supports ACEing Cancer, the 
WTA Charities’ first global philanthropic program supporting women’s health and wellness with a focus on women’s cancers. The program has three main objectives:
•
  R
aising awareness through public service 
announcements and player ambassadors. 
• S
torytelling to share firsthand experiences.
•  F
undraising to support the fight against 
women’s cancers. 
For every ace that players hit at 500- and 
1000-level tournaments worldwide, Hologic makes a monetary donation to ACEing Cancer. Each year, these funds then support a new researcher and various nonprofit groups.
Hologic is the WTA’s  official health partner and equality champion. Our organizations jointly amplify the 
message that women’s health is foundational to the well-being of families, communities and societies.  
In collaboration with current WTA legends and players, we inspire women to make their health a greater 
priority through preventive care.
The launch of the Hologic-WTA partnership included a media panel at the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, California in March 2022. From left to 
right: Tennis Channel reporter Blair Henley, WTA athlete Jessica Pegula, WTA President Micky Lawler, Hologic Senior Vice President Lisa Hellmann, WTA legend Pam Shriver and WTA athlete Christina McHale.2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
19
A Smashing Partnership With the 
Women’s Tennis Association
Game, Set, Match for Preventive Care Awareness: Special Event Highlights from 2022
Tournament Showcases
Hologic has provided special, onsite 
engagements at WTA tournaments in:
• I
ndian Wells, California.
•
 S
an Diego, California.
•
 F
ort Worth, Texas.
•
 M
adrid, Spain.
• B
erlin, Germany.
• T
okyo, Japan.Powerful Voices
WTA legends and athletes contributed their 
high-profile voices to the Hologic WTA Tour’s efforts to elevate women’s health, raising awareness and normalizing conversations about preventive care. They include:
•
 M
artina Navratilova.
• C
hris Evert.
• C
arla Suárez Navarro.
•
 I
ga Świątek.
• S
loane Stephens.
• Sim
ona Halep.
•
 B
ianca Andreescu.
•
 P
etra Kvitová.
•
 O
ns Jabeur.
•
 A
nett Kontaveit.
•
 J
essica Pegula.
•
 M
adison Keys.
•
 C
oco Gauff.
• M
aria Sakkari.
•
 P
aula Badosa.
• G
arbiñe Muguruza.
• Sh
elby Rogers.Performance and Preventive Care 
With support from Hologic, the WTA now provides player physicals on an annual basis. Those physicals include body composition analysis with Hologic’s Horizon® DXA system, an addition the WTA sought for years.
Clockwise from top left: 1. Dr. Susan Harvey at “Her Health Advantage” with WTA legend Martina Navratilova and WTA athletes Sloane Stephens and Madison Keys in New 
York, New York. 2. CEO Steve MacMillan, WTA legend Martina Navratilova and WTA President Micky Lawler at NASDAQ headquarters in New York City to kick off Breast Cancer Awareness Month. 3. Béatrice Lemberg (far left), Hologic’s Senior Director of Surgical Marketing for EMEA and Canada, joins other female leaders at Bett1 Open in Berlin, Germany. 4. WTA tennis pro Shelby Rogers talks with Hologic’s Joan Spoden about the Horizon DXA body composition system. 5. WTA athlete Ons Jabeur (left) connects with a competitor after their tennis match.2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
20
Global Access 
Initiative
The Global Access Initiative (GAI) — Innovation With a Humanitarian 
Purpose — Transforms HIV and Cervical Cancer Screening for  
Many Countries
The GAI is a partnership with the Clinton Health Access Initiative and MedAccess. 
It provides access to testing for HIV, HCV, HBV, HPV and COVID-19 using our 
Panther® system. This testing is delivered with a cost-effective pricing structure and no requirement for capital expenditure.
The GAI brings a holistic model of pricing, training and service to a region in dire need of 
innovative solutions. Thanks to our ability to adapt and meet market needs, more people  can be helped through advanced diagnostics screening and co-testing for cervical cancer,  greatly improving the quality of life for those throughout Africa.
The Global Access Initiative began  
with two countries and has grown to a 
dozen participants. To date, it has saved $27 million in direct procurement for governments, donors and public entities.
Hologic’s Global Access Initiative team, shown here at an international AIDS conference, has provided millions of 
diagnostic tests across sub-Saharan Africa.Supported : 
Botswana, Eswatini, 
Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe
Planned Additions: 
Cameroon, Cote d’Ivoire and Democratic Republic of Congo
Eligible: 
Angola, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Comoros, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Rwanda,  
Timor-Leste and Togo
Timor-Leste2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
21Project Health Equality
Helping Provide Greater Awareness and Access for Underserved Women
Since our founding in 1985, Hologic has dedicated itself to advancing greater well-being for all women. Through Project 
Health Equality , Hologic and our partners champion underserved women through greater awareness about the importance 
of preventive care, access to care at strategic locations and culturally informed research. Systemic racism, bias and a well-documented history of mistrust between people of color and the medical establishment continue to drive disparities in access to healthcare. We created Project Health Equality  to fund initiatives that help overcome these disparities. Some of 
Project Health Equality’s 2022 featured highlights include:
College of American 
Pathologists (CAP) Foundation  
“See, Test, Treat”
Hologic joined the CAP Foundation in Jackson, Mississippi on August 20, 2022,  
for its “See, Test, Treat” day. The event provided a wide range of preventive-care services to underserved residents, from screening for cervical and breast cancers  
to gynecologic health checks.Promise Fund of Florida
Hologic’s financial support helps the Promise Fund of Florida employ 20 patient navigators to guide patients through the care process across a dozen health facilities in Palm Beach County and Broward County, Florida. These specialists conduct outreach, book appointments, arrange transportation, provide translation services, explain medical procedures and coordinate follow-up care.
National Alliance for Hispanic Health (NAHH)
Hologic supports the NAHH program “Mi Hermana, Latina Health Champions,” which has developed a seminar series for community health workers on wellness, partnered with community groups to train health workers, funded 10 university teams’ research on health disparities and provided messaging about how race, ethnicity and gender matter in healthcare.Breast Cancer Support Fund 
In Ontario, Canada, Hologic and the Breast Cancer Support Fund (BCSF) joined forces to promote the importance of routine screenings — and to highlight practical resources that help more women access those screenings.
These health professionals provided “See, 
Test, Treat” services. Promise Fund co-founder Nancy Brinker  and First Lady Dr. Jill Biden tour a women’s imaging center.
Community health workers during “Mi Hermana” training in the U.S. city of Chicago, Illinois.BCSF takes breast cancer screenings to the community. 2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
22
Breast Care for Washington
Hologic’s leadership in championing healthcare for underserved women — 
raising awareness, increasing access and promoting equitable access while inspiring early screening and disease detection — reached another milestone  
on October 24, 2022. 
Hologic leaders and legendary entertainer Mary J. Blige, a partner of our  
Project Health Equality initiative, came together in Washington, D.C. to elevate 
the profile of women’s health. Blige delivered remarks at The White House  
about preventive care for breast and cervical cancers alongside First Lady  
Dr. Jill Biden, then witnessed firsthand how Hologic’s collaboration with the nonprofit organization Breast Care for Washington makes a lifesaving  
difference for patients. 
“I’m here today as a Black woman who 
is passionate about using my platform 
to encourage other women to prioritize 
their health — namely, their annual  
Well Woman visits, mammograms and 
Pap + HPV tests. I’ve dedicated a great 
deal of time to increasing awareness  
of the importance of preventive care —  
reminding people that their health is 
their wealth and urging them to make  
it a priority.”
Mary J. Blige
Clockwise from top: 1. Mary J. Blige and First Lady Dr. Jill Biden meet at The White House. 2. Erik Anderson, 
president of Hologic’s Breast and Skeletal Health Solutions Division, meets with Grammy Award-winning  and Academy Award-nominated artist, actress, producer and preventive care advocate Mary J. Blige and  
Dr. Regina Hampton, co-founder, medical officer and interim CEO of Breast Care for Washington. 3. Mary J. Blige speaking at The White House.2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women       Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
23
Helping Underserved Women Worldwide 
In addition to Project Health 
Equality, Hologic partners with organizations in other ways to deliver care and improve access to underserved women around the world. These partners connect women with culturally competent care through awareness, education, clinical resources and research.
Fundeso  
Costa Rica
Hologic provides grants, food and other 
resources to this nonprofit hostel that  
offers free lodging, food and basic health services to women across Costa Rica who come to the capital, San Jose, for breast cancer treatment.Kanjanabaramee Foundation  
Thailand
Hologic’s Genius® 3Dimensions® mammography systems are installed on this foundation’s fleet of buses, which travel the country to provide free mammograms as part of a comprehensive health check-up.
Breast Cancer Initiative  
East Africa  
Rwanda
Hologic’s support enables this nonprofit, which started with 27 breast-cancer survivors, to increase outreach activities to low-income communities across East Africa. The organization educates women about optimal breast health, which includes learning about risk factors and gaining access to regular screenings.Mobile Mammography  
Taiwan
Hologic’s mammography systems are part of a mobile program that visits remote areas of Taiwan to provide easy access to breast health screenings, free of charge.
Ewang’an Nadede  
Advocacy Initiative  
Kenya
With a grant from Hologic, this organization is increasing its screening program for breast cancer, cervical cancer and sexually transmitted infections among women in Kajiado County. It’s also expanding  
education efforts to lower the region’s rate  
of teenage pregnancies.Community Clinics  
San Diego County (U.S.)
Funded with grants from Hologic, these  
San Diego County community clinics  
provide preventive care for a diverse  
range of women:
• L
a Maestra Family Clinic.
• N
eighborhood Healthcare.
•
 V
ista Community Clinic.
• S
outhern California Care Community.
From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities       The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 24
Our 
Communities
A global company has a responsibility to help wherever 
it can — not only where it conducts  
business. That means serving unique populations  
with different needs. Hologic listens to the specific needs of many local audiences to deliver support  
that resonates within the community.Strengthening Communities  
Through Philanthropy 
 
...................................... 25
Supporting a Diverse Range  of Causes 
 
............................................................. 26From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities       The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities       The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
25Strengthening Communities  
Through Philanthropy
Supporting the communities where our employees live and work is central to our mission. We are proud of the positive impact our philanthropy is making on  
cancer patients, underserved women, innovation-minded students and many others.
To maximize our impact in ways that align with our business, we concentrate our giving efforts locally, and in three areas:
•
 W
omen’s health and other healthcare fields in which we operate.
•
 S
TEM  education, especially for underprivileged students.
• S
ocial and racial equality, especially in healthcare.
organizations  
worldwide185
received philanthropic assistance  
from Hologic. We have donated  
millions of dollars to these non-profit 
organizations, directly and through 
Partners in Giving, a program in which 
Hologic matches employees’  
donations to charitable groups.  Ann Arbor, Michigan, U.S.
Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.Cartago, Costa RicaCleveland, Ohio, U.S.Dallas, Texas, U.S.Danbury, Connecticut, U.S.Hartford, Connecticut, U.S.Holmes, Pennsylvania, U.S.Indianapolis, Indiana, U.S.Kajiado, KenyaKigali, RwandaLondon, United KingdomLos Angeles, California, U.S.Manchester, United KingdomNeedham, Massachusetts, U.S.Newark, Delaware, U.S.Phoenix, Arizona, U.S.Pocatello, Idaho, U.S.Quebec, CanadaRaleigh, North Carolina, U.S.Rochester Hills, Michigan, U.S.San Diego, California, U.S.San Jose, Costa RicaSan Marcos, California, U.S.Syracuse, New York, U.S.West Palm Beach, Florida, U.S.Wilmington, Delaware, U.S.Worcester, Massachusetts, U.S.
Dozens of Communities Supported, 
Including:Corporate Philanthropy  
Grant Breakdown
● Women’s Health (53%)    ●  STEM (30%)   ●  Other (17%)Women’s 
HealthOther STEM2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities       The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
26Supporting a Diverse Range of Causes
Ellie Fund®
Massachusetts
The Ellie Fund provides essential services such as grocery gift 
cards, meal deliveries and transportation to treatment sites for breast cancer patients residing or receiving treatment in Massachusetts, regardless of economic circumstances.
Fundación Ayúdenos Para Ayudar
Costa Rica
Fundación Ayúdenos Para Ayudar (Museo de los Niños) operates a science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics (STEAM) learning project through a public-private partnership. This program raises awareness among young people in Costa Rica about their opportunities to pursue STEAM education and careers. The museum’s STEAM Room is where young people from diverse backgrounds learn together.
Room to Read® 
International
This global literacy program strives to create a world free  from illiteracy and gender inequality, helping more children  in low-income communities develop reading skills while also supporting girls’ efforts to succeed in secondary school.  To date, Room to Read has benefited more than 32 million children across 21 countries.
Hologic strives to make a difference in the communities in which we operate. As such, we continue to expand  our relationship with OneUnited Bank, a Massachusetts-based institution that provides financial services to  support economic development in urban communities. 
OneUnited has recently purchased a building in Roxbury, Massachusetts to build its national headquarters.  
The bank also sponsors the Mass Black Expo, which provides financial literacy and financial opportunities for  small businesses throughout the state.Banking with a Purpose
OneUnited is a leader in providing innovative products and services that increase access to critically needed financial services for underserved communities, including its CashPlease program, which offers short-term small dollar loans to consumers who would ordinarily only have predatory lenders as an option. In the past few years, the bank has financed nearly $1 billion in loans mostly in U.S. communities such as: 
•
 S
outh Central Los Angeles, California.
• C
ompton, California.
•
 L
iberty City, Florida. 
•
 R
oxbury, Massachusetts.OneUnited Bank® and Hologic: Investing in Urban CommunitiesFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment      Our People      Good Governance 
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 2727
The Environment
Hologic contributes to the greater good for both 
the communities of today and those of future generations. While we specialize in healthcare innovation, we recognize that basic human needs affect health issues at a much higher level. At Hologic, growing while being mindful of our environmental impact is key. We are working to ensure that our progress is also measured by a diminished carbon footprint.Environmental Goals  ......................................... 28
Hologic Costa Rica’s  
Climate Leadership  
............................................ 30
Environmental Initiatives in  Our Diagnostics Division
 
.................................. 31
Climate Risks and Opportunities  .................. 32From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 28Environmental Goals
Achieve a 15% reduction in non-hazardous/non-recyclable  
waste by 2025*  
Hologic is currently operating or launching several initiatives globally in support of our goal to 
achieve a 15% reduction in non-hazardous/non-recyclable waste by 2025. Many of our U.S. sites are utilizing a dedicated single stream methodology for waste usage, ensuring zero hazardous waste is going to landfills. In addition, we are piloting an initiative at our Londonderry, New Hampshire facility to reduce plastic waste via recycling by 25% and are studying the feasibility of rolling this program out at other U.S. locations. We remain on target in other countries, pursuing zero-waste certification by 2025 at our Costa Rica location while sharing these best practice efforts with our European sites, ensuring all our global enterprise pursues best-in-class sustainability practices.Hologic aims to make business decisions that have a positive impact on the environment and we manage our environmental strategy as an integral 
part of our business. In our quest to responsibly limit our carbon footprint, our initiatives focus on expanding the use of renewable energy sources and incorporating more sustainable practices into our operations. Contributing to the greater good only matters if we preserve our world for future generations.Given this philosophy, we are pleased to reaffirm our long-term environmental targets† from last year.
Achieve a 30% reduction of Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions  
by 2030*  
Although our emissions as a percentage of sales increased modestly in FY22, this was  
driven by higher COVID revenue in 2021. Hologic continues to achieve material reductions  in its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions since 2013, while also growing sales globally.  Relative to our 2020 baseline, emissions as a percentage of revenue have declined approximately 20%. To achieve our future emissions target, we will focus on supply-side initiatives, while also working to incorporate future initiatives that are aligned with the  Science Based Targets Initiative.
Hologic Emissions Summary 2013-2022
35,000
30,00025,00020,000Metric Ton CO2
Metric Ton CO2e / MM $ Sales
15,00010,0005,0000
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 202214.0
12.0
10.0
6.08.0
4.0
0.02.012.8
3.54.15.26.66.98.49.610.411.631,905
29,382
28,155
27,274
25,818
22,289 22,072
6,982 7,5127 ,42712,702
11,98312,51219,684 19,49619,939
Note: Above emissions summary chart breaks out Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions starting in Hologic’s fiscal 2020, as this is the 
base year for the emissions reduction goal.● Metric Ton CO2      ●  Metric Ton CO2 Scope 1      ●  Metric Ton CO2 Scope 2      ●  Metric Ton CO2e / MM $ Sales
† Environmental goals are expressed as a percentage of revenue.* Reduction compared to fiscal 2020.From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 291. Solid waste is defined as the quantity of waste disposed as landfill, recycled, composted, and other (ex. reclaimed for energy).  2.  Regulated waste is defined as the quantity of waste disposed as hazardous waste, biohazardous or medical waste, 
universal waste, or radioactive waste.
Note: Historical data may differ from Hologic’s 2021 Sustainability Report. In fiscal 2022, Hologic conducted an internal audit of environmental data and this year’s report has adjusted figures as necessary based on this exercise.Achieve a 40% reliance on self-generated renewable energy  
at owned sites by 2030   
Hologic has procured proposals to construct several types of solar generation systems at  
our owned sites. In addition to the energy generation component, we forecast a reduction  in our annual energy consumption by continuing to invest in more energy efficient properties, plants and equipment over the next eight years. We will continue to explore other renewable energy opportunities, giving us confidence that the necessary means are in place to achieve  the 2030 goal.
Convert to 50% renewable electricity by 2030 and 75%  
renewable electricity by 2035  
Hologic will procure energy in accordance with the renewable energy targets stipulated in our long-term goals. In addition, Hologic partnered with an external consultant, Sustainability Roundtable and their Net Zero Consortium for Buyers. This consortium is a confidential  buyers’ community and a leading transaction platform committed to facilitating renewable  energy transactions.
Environmental Goals and Data Presented Are for  
Operational Sites
The Environmental Goals, Emissions Summary Chart and Environmental Data table presented above are for Operational Sites. Operational Sites are defined as those where Hologic has  a manufacturing presence and/or the ability to manage utilities. Data includes estimates  where necessary.2019 2020 2021 2022
Electricity (MwH) 50,470 47,542 47,841 48,479
Solid Waste1 (MT) 1,511 1,351 1,925 1,942
Regulated Waste2 (MT) 242 245 255 267
Water Consumption (Cubic Meters) 136,741 137,856 156,169 156,596Further, we are again pleased to disclose data pertaining to electricity, waste and water consumption — metrics that we track internally to measure our environmental footprint.  The table below is based on data available and quantifiable through the end of our fiscal  2022. This data has been normalized to exclude sites that have been closed.Environmental Goals (continued)From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 30Hologic Costa Rica Climate Initiatives
Solar Panels and Battery System
Our Costa Rica team continues to lead Hologic forward with innovative solutions to help address 
climate change. Since 2018, when the Costa Rica site initially installed solar panels, the team has harnessed the power of solar electricity to deliver environmental benefits and financial savings. For example, these solar panels have reduced the facility’s carbon footprint by 25.5 tons of CO
2 
per year; saving the equivalent of 8,000 trees, while also saving approximately $71,000 per year in electricity costs. 
Given these outstanding benefits, in June of 2022, the Costa Rica team chose to expand its  
solar panel capacity. We expect the new panels to generate 220 kilowatts (kW) of power at maximum capacity, which represents more than 456 thousand kilowatt-hours (kWh) of power  per year, equivalent to the average annual consumption of more than 200 houses in Costa Rica. 
The facility is also implementing a battery system to save and store electricity generated  
during periods of low energy usage, with a goal to offset activity during periods of peak  energy consumption. 
These initiatives are part our global strategy to achieve a 40% reliance on self-generated  
renewable energy at Hologic-owned sites by 2030. Water Reclamation                                                                                   
In addition to expanding solar panel capacity and introducing an efficient battery system, Hologic Costa Rica’s tremendous commitment to sustainability is evidenced by the team’s water reclamation project. The team has created an ingenious solution to collect rainwater from the facility’s roof and reuse it in the site’s air conditioning system. With the project, Hologic Costa Rica expects to save more than 1,500 cubic meters of rainwater annually and save $4,700.00 USD in annual air conditioning costs.
Zero Waste
By fiscal 2025, Hologic Costa Rica aims to achieve “zero waste” status as defined by the Zero Waste International Alliance. This initiative has led to multiple process improvements since the program was launched, including more sustainable packaging, more efficient material segregation and site meal preparation that is more data oriented. This is yet another example  of the site’s exceptional commitment to environmental stewardship.
Hologic’s Costa Rica site achieved 
zero waste to landfill as part of a  pilot project.
In addition, the team’s efforts support 
Hologic’s strategy to contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs 7 and 12).
 Hologic Costa Rica celebrates its commitment to solar power.From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 31Environmental Initiatives in Our Diagnostics Division
A Hologic operations team member inspects an order prior to shipment.Packaging
Hologic’s Diagnostics team set out to reduce paper use associated with our collection devices. 
Our collection devices originally included package insert pamphlets that clinicians could give to patients, detailing how to use the product. Hologic’s Operations and Commercial teams collaborated to remove these inserts from our Aptima® Multitest Swab Specimen Collection Kits and replaced them with a simple business card instructing clinicians where to find, and if needed, print the package insert information online. Approximately 500kg of paper is saved each year  as a result of this initiative.
Shipping
To reduce carbon emissions and the use of environmentally unfriendly plastics, our Diagnostics team redesigned several insulated shipping containers. These temperature-controlled containers were reconfigured with better insulation while also using less material.
Manufacturing
Our Diagnostics team designed, developed and implemented new “flow wrapper” production lines for our collection devices. These lines use significantly less material and energy to manufacture each collection device. The new production process successfully helps to reduce the carbon footprint of our facilities in San Diego, California, and Manchester, United Kingdom.2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
32An employee at Hologic’s Newark, Delaware facility processes a critical component of our mammography systems.Climate Risks and Opportunities
Opportunities
We view climate-related opportunities through the lens of TCFD and specifically  
look to areas in resource efficiency, energy sources as well as products and services  to add value. As with the current renovation of our facility in Newark, New Jersey,  we continue to look to improve efficiency and sustainability across our production,  distribution and facilities management. 
We pursue opportunities to lower our emissions with alternative energy sources like  
adding capacity to our solar panel system in Costa Rica. 
Finally, we continue to look at ways to lower our carbon footprint with our products  
and services.Risks
Hologic is committed to identifying and mitigating climate-related risks in accordance with  the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We assess and manage these risks through our enterprise risk management process (ERM), which identifies environmental, social and governance issues having the potential to cause disruption to our business. Our  ERM process guides our Board of Directors and management team in mitigating the most  critical climate-related risks facing Hologic.
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 33From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
33
Our People
Passion for the work Hologic does every day can be 
felt in our offices around the globe. We were founded by passionate innovators and thousands of equally inspired employees continue to carry that flame to this day. After all, who hasn’t been impacted by the health crisis of a loved one? The motivation that so many Hologic employees bring to work every day creates  
a culture of progress and change.People First  .......................................................... 34
K
ey Indicators of Engagement 
 
..................... 35
Our People Drive Our Passion 
 
..................... 36
Our People Deliver Our Promise 
 
.................. 37
Raising the Bar: Championing  
World-Class Managers 
 
.................................... 38
Employee Workforce Composition 
 
............ 39From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 34From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
People First
World-Class Employee Engagement 
Engagement on the Rise
It isn’t enough to garner high scores in a single year. Our track record is a result of our concerted, 
consistent effort to dynamically engage our employees. While scores from 2021 were already impressive, we managed to continue making progress in key areas in 2022.More Engaged than Ever
The percentage of Hologic employees who say they are engaged with the company  continues to increase.
The grand mean is scored out of 5 and represents overall feedback to all questions asked by Gallup  
in its employee survey.“Our world-class engagement results in 2022 reflect the commitment of each employee to Hologic’s 
purpose, our colleagues and our global work culture. 
We know that when employees are engaged, they perform at their best. Hologic’s teams across three 
dozen countries are driven by our singular purpose – to enable healthier lives everywhere, every day.
We maintained a high level of engagement amid a great deal of uncertainty and complexity, including 
record-setting business growth, organizational changes, a stream of acquisitions and supply chain 
challenges driven by COVID. Our progress results from people truly committing and working together.”
Lisa Hellmann  
Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources and Corporate Communications
Hologic Engagement Ratio Hologic Grand Mean
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 201623% 24% 25%33%40% 42% 43%52%73% 72% 70%60%52% 50% 49%37%
201511%4% 4% 5% 7% 8% 8% 8%
202296th
202196th
202096th
201983rd
201873rd
201764th
201663rd 36th
4.444.42
+0.04+0.024.38
4.18
4.094.064.05
3.86
2015
● Engaged      ●  Not Engaged      ●  Actively Disengaged2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 35From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
Key Indicators of Engagement
Gallup’s global employee engagement survey asks 12 questions. We proudly share these highlights from Hologic employees’ responses.
96thI have opportunities
to learn and grow
Percentile
89thI do what I do best
every day
Percentile95thI have made progress
in the last six months
Percentile
94thHologic encourages 
development
Percentile92ndI have a best
friend at work
Percentile
97thMy opinions  
matter
Percentile98thI’ve received recognition 
in the last 7 days
Percentile
98thMy coworkers are 
committed to quality
Percentile84thAccess to materials and 
supplies to do my job
Percentile98thMy supervisor  
cares
Percentile
98thI believe in the 
Hologic mission
Percentile87thI know what is  
expected of me
Percentile98thMy supervisor  
cares
Percentile
98thI believe in the 
Hologic mission
Percentile98thI’ve received recognition 
in the last 7 days
Percentile
98thMy coworkers are 
committed to quality
Percentile97thMy opinions  
matter
Percentile
96thI have opportunities
to learn and grow
Percentile92ndI have a best
friend at work
Percentile
89thI do what I do best
every day
Percentile84thAccess to materials and 
supplies to do my job
Percentile95thI have made progress
in the last six months
Percentile
94thHologic encourages 
development
Percentile87thI know what is  
expected of me
Percentile2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
36
Our People Drive  
Our Passion
“
“ “What I am empowered to do each day, which is to 
set the strategic direction of our sales organization, has an impact not only on the livelihood of all employees, but also on every patient who receives a diagnosis based on the surety of our products. When there is tight alignment between mission and performance, and the right talent in every role, engagement thrives.”
Keith Reed  
Vice President of Sales, Breast and Skeletal Health Solutions  
Orlando, Florida
I joined the organization at a time when everything in the world was uncertain due to COVID. Hologic embraced these challenges and ensured that we felt secure in an unnerving situation. We did not lose those interpersonal connections that tie our purpose to our people. I found myself connecting more and cultivating my leadership skills, which created an excellent sense of belonging for me. I am certain that my purpose to enable healthier lives is aligned to my daily responsibilities in the organization and that growth is inevitable.”My goal in life is to leave the world a better place for having had me in it. As a nurse, I was able to do that through direct patient care – one patient at a time. As someone who has worked in the medical technology industry, I’ve been able to help develop world-class treatment and diagnostic technologies that impact far more people. Moving to Hologic was a no-brainer. You’re working with amazing technology that helps to diagnose earlier, bring treatment sooner and help women in particular get back to healthy lives and their families a lot faster.”
Dikeledi Khoza  
Applications and Support Lead  
Global Access Initiative  
Johannesburg, South AfricaTanja Brycker  
Vice President of International Strategic Development for Surgical, Breast and  Skeletal Health  
Field, United KingdomHologic has been a great champion for the well-being of 
its people and the communities where it does business. This is a game-changer for both the employee and the company — a two-way, win-win approach. What could be more engaging than working for a company that genuinely cares about people? Hologic means pride and hope.”
Elidieth Gonzalez  
Director, Human Resources  
El Coyol, Costa RicaI love being surrounded by people I can trust, lean on  and who inspire me every day. These close relationships lead to exciting moments of ideating, collaborating and problem-solving together. There is a mutual respect for each other’s perspectives and a yearning to accomplish our goals. Our collaborative outcome is so much greater than what I could ever dream of accomplishing alone.
”
Mark Olsem  
Senior Director, Brand and Healthcare Provider Marketing  
Ann Arbor, Michigan
“
“2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
37From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing 
Women      Our Communities      The Environ -
ment     Our People       Good Governance 
I still remember when I was first diagnosed 
with HSIL (cellular abnormalities) during a cervical cancer screening. When I told my colleagues, they were very supportive and ensured that I was not under too much stress, helping me in every possible way. I am very thankful for the support system I have at Hologic.”
Sandy Li 
Senior Applications Specialist  
Hong Kong, China
Our People Deliver  
Our Promise
Elizabeth Coll  
Marketing Manager, Surgical Solutions Division  
Mississauga, CanadaI feel so proud when I speak to healthcare 
professionals and patients about how Hologic has positively impacted them. There is so much work that still needs to be done to ensure that women and girls in all corners of the world are cared for and protected. Not only does Hologic support this through proven technology solutions, but also through initiatives like the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index and Project Health Equality. I know that every day, my role at Hologic plays a part in advancing women’s health  
here in Canada and beyond.”The main driving force at Mobidiag was the feeling of belonging to a team, almost a family, and this bond was one of the strongest drivers of engagement. Extending the family circle into a larger company like Hologic requires a purpose. Joining Hologic during COVID has really demonstrated the strong sense of purpose and dedication throughout the organization. Knowing that our solutions help our customers better serve patients is something that drives our motivation a step further.”
Yann Marcy  
Vice President of R&D at Mobidiag  
Acquired by Hologic in 2021 Paris, France
I feel and see that who we are gets into everything. 
What we do. How we show up. Engagement for me is the unspoken beauty when we truly connect. It’s not always easy, but it is an everyday choice we all must make. I own my engagement and I work every day to expand its reach.”
Veerle Dierynck  
Senior Director, EMEAC Customer  
and Technical Service  
Brussels, Belgium
“
“
““2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
38At Hologic, we have a relentless focus on talent, performance, the experiences of 
our employees and developing the best teams and leaders. With that in mind,  
we created an internal resource for our employees known as the “Bar.”  
What is the Bar?  A resource for self-guided content, centered around good management 
practices. The Bar acts as a digital resource for current or aspiring people managers to build 
managerial muscles. Its content is continually evolving and responding to the most pressing challenges managers are facing.We help our managers by clearly setting expectations and 
providing guidance on those topics that matter most to developing talent and delivering strong performance. We  
aim to raise the bar on leadership practices at Hologic.
Leadership Expectations
• D riving personal impact on individuals and team culture.
• E
ffectively managing individual and team performance.
• L
earning how to inspire others.
• C
ultivating and motivating talent.
• D
efining, interpreting and sharing a vision.
Employee Engagement
• U nderstanding why engagement is so important.•
 M
easuring engagement.
•
 H
ologic’s process and the role of managers.
Development
• E ffectively using one-to-ones to build trust and drive performance.•
 S
etting clear expectations.
• L
earning how to trigger development and ensure it “sticks. ”
• D
iscovering how to make difficult conversations productive.
• C
reating high-performing teams.
Onboarding
• D esigning an impactful pre-joining experience.•
 C
reating first touchpoints once a new employee is onboard.
Manager Processes
• I ncentivizing and rewarding performance.•
 S
etting goals.
• A
ssessing strengths.
Raising the Bar:  
Championing World-Class Managers2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
39Women at All Levels (Global)
2022 Age Diversity Global U.S.
Gen Z (1996 - 2012) 12% 7%
Gen Y/Millennials (1977 - 1995) 63% 50%
Gen X (1965 - 1976) 20% 26%
Baby Boomers (1946 - 1964) 4% 17%
Other 1% 0%Employee Workforce Composition
Workforce Data
2022 General Employee Data Global U.S.
Full-Time Employees 6,883 4,038
Part-Time Employees 61 7
Total Full- and Part-Time Employees 6,944 4,045
New Hires 1,274 625
Total Employee Turnover 1,250 713
2022 Global Employees Women Men
Individual Contributor 45% 55%
Manager 45% 55%
Director and VPs 37% 63%
Global Leadership Team 33% 67%
Total Company 45% 55%Progression of Workforce (Women and Multicultural) Over Time  
40%
35%
30%
25%
20%29%30%31%33%33%
29%
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22
50%
45%
40%
35%
30%
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY2243%45%
42% 42%
Note: No birthday data for 29 International employees - included in “Other” category.Note: Gender data is not available for 103 employees.Multicultural (U.S. Only)2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
402022 United States Workforce Composition Ethnicity Women Men
Individual Contributor  
(3,227 Employees)                                                                        White 27% 38%
Minority Race and Ethnicity 15% 20%
Gender Total 42% 58%
Managers   
(490 Employees)White 37% 40%
Minority Race and Ethnicity 10% 13%
Gender Total 47% 53%
Director and VPs  
(310 Employees)                                                                                   White 31% 50%
Minority Race and Ethnicity 8% 11%
Gender Total 39% 61%
GLT*  
(12 Employees)                                                                                                           White 25% 50%
Minority Race and Ethnicity 8% 17%
Gender Total 33% 67%
Total U.S.  
(4,045 Employees)White 28% 39%
Minority Race and Ethnicity 14% 19%
Gender Total 42% 58%Employee Workforce Composition (continued)
*Global Leadership Team includes Non-U.S. Senior Leadership   
N
ote: Ethnicity data is not available for 48 U.S.-based employees.2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
41Employee Workforce Composition (continued)
2022 Hired U.S. Population Percentages  
(Incumbents by Sub-Group)Total Population White Black Hispanic Asian Nat. Am.* NHOPI** Two or More
Female 49% 27% 2% 5% 9% 0% 1% 5%
Male 51% 31% 3% 4% 9% 1% 1% 4%
All 58% 4% 9% 17% 1% 1% 9%2022 Current U.S. Population Percentages Total Population White Black Hispanic Asian Nat. Am.* NHOPI** Two or More
Female 42% 28% 1% 4% 7% 0% 0% 2%
Male 58% 39% 3% 5% 8% 0% 2% 2%
All 67% 4% 8% 15% 0% 2% 4%
2022 Promoted U.S. Population 
Percentages (Incumbents by Sub-Group)Total Population White Black Hispanic Asian Nat. Am.* NHOPI** Two or More
Female 46% 30% 1% 5% 10% 0% 0% 0%
Male 54% 36% 3% 5% 7% 0% 1% 3%
All 65% 3% 11% 16% 0% 1% 3%Note: No ethnicity data for 48 U.S. based employees. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
* Native American** Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander
Note: No ethnicity data for 107 U.S. hires. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
* Native American** Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander
Note: No ethnicity data for 39 U.S. promotions. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
* Native American** Native Hawaiian and “Other” Pacific Islander2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
42Employee Workforce Composition (continued)
2022 Terminated U.S. Population 
Percentages (Incumbents by Sub-Group)Total Population White Black Hispanic Asian Nat. Am.* NHOPI** Two or More
Involuntary and Voluntary (All) 92% 61% 6% 8% 14% 0% 1% 2%
Female 43% 30% 2% 4% 6% 0% 0% 1%
Male 57% 37% 4% 5% 10% 0% 1% 1%
Retirement/Death 8% 7% 1% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Female 43% 36% 4% 0% 2% 0% 0% 0%
Male 57% 51% 2% 0% 2% 0% 0% 2%
Note: No ethnicity data for 149 U.S. terminated employees. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.  
* Native American
** Native Hawaiian and “Other” Pacific Islander2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People       Good Governance 
43Employee Workforce Composition (continued)
2022 U.S. Management Level Workforce 
Representations by Sub-GroupTotal Population White Black Hispanic Asian Nat. Am.* NHOPI** Two or More
Individual Contributor 80% 51% 4% 8% 13% 0% 1% 3%
Female 42% 27% 1% 4% 8% 0% 0% 2%
Male 58% 38% 3% 6% 9% 0% 1% 2%
Managers 12% 9% 0% 1% 2% 0% 0% 0%
Female 47% 37% 1% 2% 6% 0% 0% 1%
Male 53% 39% 2% 3% 6% 0% 1% 1%
Director and VPs 8% 7% 0% 0% 1% 0% 0% 0%
Female 39% 31% 1% 1% 5% 1% 0% 1%
Male 61% 50% 1% 2% 6% 0% 0% 1%
GLT 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Female 36% 27% 0% 10% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Male 64% 55% 9% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Note: No ethnicity data for 149 U.S. terminated employees. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.  
* Native American
** Native Hawaiian and “Other” Pacific Islander2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 44From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
44
Good
Governance
As a leading global healthcare company, Hologic has a 
responsibility to provide transparency into our business practices and operate with the highest degree of integrity. Our governance policies guide our work in clinical trials, supply chain management, supplier risk management, quality management, workplace health and safety as well as information security. 
Strong governance is essential to our success as a growing 
company with a direct impact on the lives and health of millions of women around the world.Governance and Shareholder  
Engagement 
 
........................................................ 45
Clinical Trial Governance 
 
............................... 48
Supply Chain Management 
 
........................... 49
Supplier Risk Management 
 
........................... 50
Quality Management Systems  
....................... 51
Workplace Health and Safety
 
........................ 52Information Security Governance  ................ 53
G
overnance Policies and Procedures  
........54
Reporting Frameworks 
 
................................... 56
Sustainability Accounting Standards  
.......... 56
Task Force on Climate-Related  Financial Disclosures
 
........................................ 58
Safe Harbor Statement  
..................................... 60
2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance From Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
2022 Hologic Sustainability Report 45Governance and Shareholder Engagement
Board Structure and Composition
A nine-member team brings a mix of experience, diversity and fresh perspectives. Given 
the Board’s smaller size, each member is highly engaged and actively contributes to an environment that fosters his or her voice to be heard, while supporting and appropriately challenging management. It has an ongoing commitment to Board refreshment and to  
having highly qualified, independent voices in the boardroom — which has resulted in an e
xceptionally well-balanced group.Our Board believes that good governance requires an effective set of specific 
practices, as well as a culture of responsibility and accountability throughout  
the organization. 
The Board is engaged with management, with each other and with Hologic’s 
shareholders. In 2015, we implemented a year-round approach to shareholder engagement. In addition to conversations just before our annual meeting,  
we initiate discussions during a quieter period several months later, reaching  
out to a number of our largest investors to discuss business highlights,  
compensation and governance matters — or whatever else is on their minds. Directors participate in these discussions as requested, and are updated on calls  
for which they are not present.
Our Board takes feedback from investors seriously. Feedback from investors has 
helped shape our compensation programs, as well as our governance structures.
Steve MacMillan
Chairman, President and Chief  Executive Officer
Scott GarrettSenior Operating Partner, Water Street Healthcare Partners
Sally W. CrawfordIndependent Lead Director, Former Chief Operating Officer, Healthsource Inc.
Ludwig N. Hantson Former Chief Executive Officer,  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc.
Charles J. DockendorffFormer CFO and Executive Vice  President, Covidien plc
Christiana StamoulisExecutive Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer, Incyte Corporation
Namal NawanaExecutive Chairman of Sapphiros
Stacey D. StewartCEO, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD)Amy M. WendellFormer Senior Vice President, Strategy  and Business Development, Covidien plc
2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
46Governance and Shareholder Engagement (continued)
Board Tenure Diversity
● Newer (≤5 yrs.)   
● Medium-tenured (6-10 yrs.)  
● Experienced (>10 yrs.)
7 years average tenure
Board Diversity  
Individual directors may be 
included in more than one segment noted below.
● Female
● Born outside of U.S.  
● Underrepresented minority
Gender, geographic and 
demographic background diversityBoard Independence● Independent   
● Not Independent
Approximately 89% of our  
Board is IndependentBoard Age Diversity● 50s   
● 60s  
● 70s
Median age is 60Board Composition
The Board is composed of a majority of independent directors, and each of the three Board committees  
(Audit and Finance, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance) is composed entirely of 
independent directors. The current membership of our Board and each committee is listed below.
Director and Principal Occupation Age Since Independent Current Committee Membership
Steve MacMillan  
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer, Hologic Inc.59 2013 •  N /A
Sally W. Crawford  
Former Chief Operating Officer,  
Healthsource Inc.69 2007 ✓ •
 L
ead Independent Director 
•
 C
ompensation 
•
 N
ominating and Corporate Governance 
(CHAIR)
Charles J. Dockendorff  
Former Chief Financial Officer and  
Executive Vice President, Covidien plc68 2017 ✓ •
 A
udit and Finance (CHAIR)
Scott T. Garrett  
Senior Operating Partner,  
Water Street Healthcare Partners71 2013 ✓ •
 C
ompensation (CHAIR) 
•
 N
ominating and Corporate Governance 
Ludwig N. Hantson
Former Chief Executive Officer  
Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc.60 2018 ✓ •
 C
ompensation
•
 N
ominating and Corporate Governance
Namal Nawana  
Executive Chairman, Sapphiros52 2018 ✓ •
 C
ompensation 
•
 N
ominating and Corporate Governance
Christiana Stamoulis  
Executive Vice President and  
Chief Financial Officer, Incyte Corporation52 2011 ✓ •
 A
udit and Finance
Stacey D. Stewart  
CEO, Mothers Against Drunk  
Driving (MADD)58 2023 ✓ •
 A
udit and Finance
Amy M. Wendell  
Former Senior Vice President,  
Strategy & BD&L, Covidien plc62 2016 ✓ •
 A
udit and Finance81
3424
413
422022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
47
Governance and Shareholder Engagement (continued)
Roles of the Board
The Board assesses risk, evaluates management’s performance, plans for successors  
and provides overall guidance and direction.
Committee Risk Oversight:
•
  T
he Audit and Finance Committee focuses on cybersecurity risk, financial risk and  
internal controls.
• T
he Compensation Committee focuses on risks related to compensation.
•
  T
he Nominating and Governance Committee oversees all our governance processes,  
including Hologic’s reporting and efforts related to sustainability.
Each year, the Board also reviews an enterprise risk management report compiled by  
business leaders who have assessed risks throughout the organization over a three-year 
horizon, focusing on financial risk, legal/compliance risk and operational/strategic risk.  
The report details Hologic’s top 10 risks, as well as mitigating actions and plans relating  
to those risks. Board Compensation Philosophy and Structure
The design of our executive compensation program and the decisions made by the  Board’s Compensation Committee are guided by these principles: 
•
  P
ay for performance.
•
  
Competitive pay.
•
  A f
ocus on total direct compensation.
Further, Hologic is focused on growth, efficient use of capital and shareholder value. 
Consequently, we use measures of adjusted revenue, adjusted EPS (earnings per share),  ROIC (return on invested capital), adjusted free cash flow and relative TSR (total shareholder return) that align management’s interest to shareholders are structured to drive performance. 
Our Board believes that our directors and officers should hold a meaningful financial stake  
in Hologic to further align their interests with those of our stockholders.  
•
  E
ach non-employee director is expected to achieve equity ownership in Hologic with a value  
of five times annual base cash retainer within five years of his or her election to the Board. 
•
  O
ur CEO is expected to achieve equity ownership in Hologic with a value of five times his  
then-current base salary.
•
  E
ach of our other executive officers is expected to achieve equity ownership in Hologic with  
a value of two times his or her then current base salary, within five years. 
All our non-employee directors and all of our executive officers who have been subject to  
these guidelines for over five years have achieved ownership in excess of them.*
Mr. MacMillan owns equity in the company that makes him one of our 25 largest stockholders.  
He purchased approximately 11% of his shares in the open market. Mr. MacMillan’s interests are well-aligned with those of our stockholders.
*  O nly shares of stock issued and outstanding (or vested and deferred under our deferred equity plan) are credited towards  
the ownership goals. No unvested RSUs or PSUs or outstanding stock options (regardless of whether or not vested) are 
credited towards the ownership goals.NACD Directorship 100™  
Names Hologic Board Member  
Sally W. Crawford as an Honoree
Hologic Lead Independent Director, Sally W. Crawford, was recognized by the 
National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD) as part of its 2022 NACD Directorship 100™ — honoring the most influential peer-nominated leaders in the boardroom and corporate governance community.
Now in its 16th year, the NACD evaluates nominees in four key categories: integrity, 
mature confidence, informed judgment and high-performance standards. 
A selection committee reviews the nominees’ histories of advancing board 
performance and leading corporate governance practices in accordance with established NACD principles. The principles provide a framework that encourages excellence in areas that include risk oversight, corporate strategy, compensation  
and transparency.Steve MacMillan with Sally Crawford at NASDAQ for  
Breast Cancer Awareness Month.2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
48Clinical Trial Governance
Hologic is committed to preserving the health  
and dignity of individuals with whom we interact. 
This includes conducting our clinical trials in compliance with the highest scientific, ethical  
and regulatory standards.
All clinical trials comply with applicable U.S. and international 
regulations, standards and guidelines for Human Subjects Protection and Ethical Review of Clinical Trials. This includes obtaining participants’ free and prior informed consent before they participate in any clinical trial. When we can use leftover remnant samples for which we do not know the identity of the individual who provided it in our clinical studies, we ensure  the samples are collected ethically.
All clinical trial protocols are reviewed by an Independent 
Institutional Review Board (IRB) or Ethics Committees (EC) as required for each region. These IRBs and ECs have the authority to approve, modify or stop clinical trials. 
We have departments of highly trained employees dedicated 
to conducting clinical trials in the U.S. and globally. These personnel are governed by Hologic policies and procedures designed to meet regulations, standards and best practices  in clinical trials. Confidentiality and Privacy Assurance and Grievance 
Mechanisms for Clinical Trial Participants
   
Hologic recognizes the importance of maintaining the privacy of an individual’s health information when participating in a clinical trial. We comply with U.S. and international regulations such as those limiting the health information we are allowed to collect for our trials, and those requiring strong security of clinical trial databases. A Principal Investigator at clinical sites is responsible for participant care with Hologic’s Technical Support and Clinical Affairs available as first-line contacts for our investigational clinical sites.  
Reporting on Violations in Clinical Trials and  
Corrective Actions
Some of our clinical trials are subject to clinical trial site and 
sponsor audits under global regulatory bodies including FDA’s Biomedical Research Program. Regulatory audits and inspections of clinical trials have resulted in no major findings at either the clinical site or Hologic. Hologic is committed to a quality system approach and conducts regular internal audits of procedures and policies.
Risk Management Prior to and During Ongoing  
Clinical Trials
Our clinical trials are managed by Hologic’s Clinical Affairs 
department. The Clinical Affairs teams, in partnership with R&D, ensure compliance with product development procedures, which include phase exit reviews. In addition, our core teams have internal department-level documents that contain risk mitigation processes. Clinical Trial Data Transparency
Registration of Clinical Trials in Publicly Available Databases
When required, we register clinical trial data and results, 
including terminated clinical trials, on public websites such as ClinicalTrials.gov . This transparency helps our 
customers make informed decisions about the safety and efficacy of our products.  
Animal Research Policy
Animal studies are sometimes required by regulatory agencies to better understand treatment outcomes and to ensure surgical procedures or medical devices are safe and effective. Hologic conducts mandatory animal testing for the development of products primarily related to breast health, skeletal health and gynecological surgery. FDA approval is required prior to marketing such products, which must be supported by data including preclinical animal studies to demonstrate safety and effectiveness of the products and their designs. Hologic is committed to complying with currently applicable scientific, legal, regulatory and ethical requirements, guidelines and policies to ensure animal welfare. Studies are carried out by individuals who are trained and qualified in the proper care, handling and use of animals, including experience with the species being studied.2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
49
Supplier Diversity
Hologic continuously pursues supplier diversity, both 
voluntarily and through a range of federal, state and local regulations that require we develop and track efforts to  use suppliers that are minority-owned, veteran-owned  and woman-owned. Approximately 10% of Hologic’s  2022 total supplier spend was with diverse suppliers.
Supplier Compliance
Supplier Code of Conduct  
All suppliers must comply with the laws of their respective countries related to the environment, child labor, wages and hours, discrimination and gifts.Supplier Non-Disclosure  
and Confidentiality  
All Hologic suppliers are required  to sign and adhere to non-disclosure agreements. This includes, but is not limited  to, any information concerning current or planned products, designs or volumes.Supplier Notification  
Suppliers must notify Hologic  in a timely manner of any event  that could impact the supply or quality of product.Supplier Use of  
Intellectual Property  
Information that is provided to suppliers and/or developed by  a supplier and paid for by Hologic  is considered the property  of Hologic.Business Continuity and  
Risk Management  
We ensure that our suppliers (and their suppliers) have well-defined, documented plans to identify and mitigate supply chain risks.Supply Chain Management
Hologic recognizes that proper governance, 
oversight and compliance with regulations  related to procurement are critical to the sustainability of our businesses and to meeting customer expectations.  
Hologic team members celebrate the opening of a new distribution center in our Asia-Pacific region.2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
50Our suppliers are classified based on their potential risk  
level. These classifications influence how we interact with  our suppliers and how critical suppliers are identified.  We track the annual spend with our most critical suppliers. Periodically, or as needed, our supply chain teams review  our current supplier segmentation to determine if any  changes are warranted.
Strategic Suppliers
We evaluate whether these suppliers meet and/or exceed the requirements of preferred suppliers, plus are willing to make investments at risk to provide access to cutting-edge technology or services that provide Hologic a marketplace advantage. 
Preferred Suppliers
These suppliers provide best-in-class pricing, prototyping, technical support and innovation. Preferred suppliers are allowed to work with R&D and sustain engineering on new projects and changes. 
Core Suppliers
These suppliers meet an acceptable level of quality, delivery, service and cost. New suppliers start at this level. 
Restricted Suppliers
Restricted suppliers do not meet the business needs of Hologic or are a potential new supplier eligible for use in limited capacity. Management authorization is required before any new business is awarded. 
Unapproved Suppliers
These suppliers do not meet Hologic’s quality and  business expectations.Supplier Risk Management 
We have a formal process to identify potential risks in the supply chain. Our supplier risk assessments are performed from three vantage points: quality risk,  
supply continuity risk and information services data risk. We maintain tracking metrics on the percentage of the supply chain covered by risk assessments.
2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
51Quality Management Systems
The purpose of Hologic’s Quality Management System (QMS) is to consistently 
meet customer requirements and enhance customer satisfaction. QMS performance is documented and maintained to ensure its effectiveness in accordance with applicable standards and regulatory requirements. 
The Hologic QMS includes multiple regulatory certifications, such as the 
current ISO 13485:2016 certifications, which are held at each of our sites  along with EU MDR and IVDR certifications.Procedures and Compliance
Field Action Procedure
This defines the requirements and conditions 
under which a recall (field correction or removal), customer notification, safety alert, market withdrawal and/or field safety corrective action take place. All Hologic entities follow the minimum requirements defined in our Corporate Standard  Operating Procedures.  Complaint Handling Procedure
This includes complaint handling for  marketed products in accordance with established regulations across all sites  that are governed by our corporate  quality system. The requirements of  these procedures apply to all finished products manufactured or distributed  by Hologic.
Quality Audit Procedure
Internal audits are conducted to ensure our QMS at all global sites and regions complies with applicable internal and external requirements. All Hologic employees are required to complete training in Quality System requirements and to acknowledge  and adhere to our Hologic Quality Policy.  Chemical Compliance
To comply with applicable chemical regulations, Hologic has implemented a process and system to ensure all substances controlled by chemical regulations within Hologic products are identified, monitored and reported as applicable.
Note: Class I recall: a situation in which there is a reasonable probability that the use of, or exposure to, a violative product will 
cause serious adverse health consequences or death. Class II recall: a situation in which the use of, or exposure to, a violative product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences or where the probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote.  
https://www.fda.gov/safety/industry-guidance-recalls/recalls-background-and-definitionsRecall Metrics FY’18 FY’19 FY’20 FY’21 FY’22
Class I 0 0 0 0 0
Class II 2 3 2 1 3
Hologic team members perform quality control checks.2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
52Workplace Health and Safety
Every day, Hologic employees strive for zero health and safety incidents in their workplaces. We collaborate to improve safety, increase productivity  
and reduce waste. Three of our manufacturing sites are ISO 14001/ISO 45001-certified, and all other sites are audited annually against the concepts  
of the ISO 14001/ISO 45001 standards. 
Hologic maintains health and safety programs conforming to best practices in the industry and all applicable regulations. Safety rules and procedures  
are in place to prevent behaviors and work practices that can lead to accidents and injuries. Safety performance is assessed throughout the year by  
management and during annual performance reviews. 
Hologic rewards positive safety  
performance and encourages  
employees to:
Refuse
Employees are directed to stop work when an unsafe  
condition or incident occurs. They are empowered to  inform and/or correct the unsafe condition.
Report
Employees must report unsafe acts and conditions,  safety incidents and injuries to their management  and EH&S immediately.
Remind
Employees are encouraged to remind each other  to work safely.
*TRIR = Total Recordable Incident Rate Industry Average provided by U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) 
(https://www.bls.gov/iif/oshsum.htm ) 
 2022 compared to 2021 BLS data for private industry >1000 employees; 2021 compared to 2020 BLS data for private industry >1000 employees; 2020 compared to 2019 BLS data for private industry >1000 employees; 2019 compared to 2018 BLS data for private industry >1000 employees; 2017 & 2018 compared to 2017 BLS Data for private industry >1000 employees; 2016 compared to 2016 BLS Data for private industry >1000 employeesYear Hologic TRIR* Industry Avg. TRIR*
2016 1.6 3.3
2017 1.2 3.2
2018 1.0 3.2
2019 0.8 3.0
2020 0.9 2.9
2021 0.7 2.9
2022 0.8 2.82022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
53Regular Employee Training on Cybersecurity Issues
All Hologic employees, contractors and consultants are 
required to undergo annual cybersecurity training and education. Training is communicated: 
•
 A
t the onset for new employees, contractors and consultants.
• W
hen required by information system changes.
•
 O
n an annual basis. 
Examples of Employee Training:
• E nabling and using secure authentication. 
•
  I
dentifying and reporting different forms of social 
engineering attacks, such as phishing, phone scams  
and impersonation calls. 
•
  R
ecognizing and reporting potential indicators of  
insider threats. 
• 
 I
dentifying and properly storing, transferring, archiving and 
destroying protected information based on the Information Protection Policy. 
•
  A
wareness of unintentional data exposures, such as losing 
mobile devices or emailing the wrong person due to autocomplete in email. Information Management System Aligned to Standards
Data privacy protection is covered in our employee Code of 
Conduct and is regularly reviewed by Hologic’s Internal Audit Department and external experts.
We also conduct weekly internal vulnerability assessments 
and engage with a third-party testing organization to support annual assessments.
Internal policies that govern employee behavior and educate 
employees on how to effectively manage risks include: 
•
 I
nformation Protection Policy.
• I
nformation Security Policy.
• I
nformation Security Management Policy.
•
 S
ocial Media Policy.
•
 A
cceptable Use Policy for Technology.
• C
ybersecurity Training, Education and Awareness Policy.
• I
T Risk Management Policy.
Intellectual Property and Data Privacy Protection  
Hologic is not currently certified to ISO 27001 standards, 
however our cybersecurity program is aligned with the National Institute of Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF). The NIST CSF offers a simple, yet effective construct that represents a set of cybersecurity practices and outcomes, as well as technical, operational and managerial security controls designed to support the five risk management functions: identify, protect, detect, respond and recover.
The Hologic Information Technology (IT) 
Department is responsible for developing, maintaining and revising policies, procedures and standards that pertain to the security  
and protection of Hologic’s information assets and services. The governance structure of  
the IT organization is designed to ensure  
that Hologic’s technology investments are aligned with strategic and cross-functional business objectives. 
The decision-making structure for Hologic’s information 
security governance includes: Hologic’s Chief Information Officer, Chief Information Security Officer, IT senior leadership, IT investment council, IT risk management committee and IT project management office leadership committee.
Our IT department established the Hologic Information 
Technology Risk Management framework to identify the risks associated with Hologic information resources and IT processes and operations and to mitigate those risks. 
Information Security Governance
The two main components of Hologic’s Information Security Governance are: 
•
   T
he creation of decision-making mechanisms, whether 
committees, review boards or written policies.
•
  T
he assignment of decision-making authority  
and accountability. Information Security Governance
Decision-Making StructureData Privacy Protection Cybersecurity Training2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
54Governance Policies and Procedures
 Diversity Policy
Our approach to diversity is supported internally through our 
global Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy, which explicitly prohibits any form of discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment or retaliation. All employees are required  to undertake biannual anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training and to acknowledge and adhere to our Anti-Discrimination  
and Anti-Harassment Policy. Hologic is committed to the principle that those we interact with, whether employee, vendor, partner or customer, will be treated with respect, dignity and professionalism.
Human Rights and Fair Working Conditions
Hologic supports fundamental human rights globally and is committed to a work environment that is free from human trafficking and slavery. We do not allow child or forced labor, nor do we knowingly work with business partners that employ children or forced labor. We also follow all applicable laws governing wages and working hours. For more information, please review Hologic’s International Modern Slavery Policy .Our Code of Conduct  outlines Hologic’s commitment to integrity and ethical conduct. All employees must 
read and understand the Code of Conduct, as well as our other policies and procedures. They must strive  
to uphold the principles of integrity and ethics in our written standards.
Antitrust and Competition Laws Compliance  
Hologic requires all employees to comply with all applicable antitrust laws. We are committed to prohibiting any actions that result in unfair methods of competition or restraint of trade.
Formal Grievance Escalation Process
We encourage employees to feel comfortable approaching their supervisor or management in instances where they believe violations of policies or standards have occurred. However, in situations where employees prefer to place an anonymous grievance in confidence, they are encouraged  to use our hotline provider, which is hosted by a third party.  The information provided is sent to Hologic on a confidential and anonymous basis at the discretion of the employee.Honesty. Being truthful and upfront with 
co-workers, customers, communities, 
suppliers, distributors and shareholders.
Integrity.  Delivering what Hologic 
promises and standing up for what is right. Respect. Treating each other with fairness 
and dignity and appreciating the unique 
abilities and strengths of each individual, as well as the advantages of diversity.
Trust. Building team spirit and confidence 
by communicating openly and honestly. Citizenship. Obeying the laws 
of all the jurisdictions where the 
company does business.
Responsibility. Taking the initiative 
to speak up and report concerns 
regarding ethical conduct and seeking reliable guidance in cases of doubt.Hologic Employee Shared Values2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
55Governance Policies and Procedures (continued)
Ethics in Sales and Marketing
We prioritize integrity as a fundamental aspect of our sales and marketing practices. Our 
products are tightly regulated by government agencies, health ministries and regulatory authorities worldwide. Hologic is committed to conducting its business ethically and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws that prohibit improper payments to obtain a business advantage. In addition, as a medical products manufacturer, Hologic has the added responsibility of ensuring that representations regarding our products are consistent with the approved label. Our commitment to ethics is part of everything we do, and we take the following steps to ensure our employees understand how to achieve business objectives with transparency, honesty and integrity. 
Ethical Interactions With Healthcare Professionals
Strict regulations govern our interactions with healthcare professionals, which include physicians, nurses and hospital or medical office administrators. We ensure our employees are aware of the potential compliance risks inherent in these interactions. Our policies and robust employee training programs ensure that any interaction Hologic employees have with a healthcare professional serves an appropriate and ethical business purpose, does not interfere with the healthcare professional’s independent medical judgment and does not violate local law or regulation. We disclose payments and transfers of value made to physicians and other healthcare entities in every state and country where disclosure is required by law. In the United States, this information is published on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Open Payments site.   
Our internal policies include:
•
  M
edical Education and Healthcare Professional Interaction Policy. 
•
  S
tate Healthcare Professional Interactions Policy.
•
  G
ifts and Other Incentives Policy.
• 
 H
ealthcare Anti-Inducement and Anti-Kickback Policy.
•
  U
.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Other International Bribery Laws Policy. 
•
  S
unshine Act Policy . Other Policies and Commitments:
 AdvaMed Code of Ethics
Hologic is a proud supporter of the ideals and values articulated by AdvaMed and a signatory  
to the 2022 AdvaMed Code of Ethics .
Conflict Minerals
Hologic supports the goal of ending human rights violations, violence and harmful environmental impacts in the covered countries and around the globe.
 Management Oversight
Our compliance team has responsibility for monitoring and following up on matters to senior management, as well as to the Board of Directors. The Hologic Corporate Quality Manual  covers management responsibility, which includes our commitment to ensure the suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the QMS. These processes ensure compliance of all marketing materials and product claims.
Risk Assessments
Hologic uses a risk-based approach, as per ISO 14971, for product risk management and these risk assessments are governed by our risk management procedure. This risk-based approach applies control to processes related to the oversight of marketing materials and product claims.
Compliance Monitoring and External Audits
Hologic conducts internal audits using a risk-based approach at planned intervals to determine whether the QMS, which covers ethical marketing materials, is functioning as required. Additionally, announced and unannounced external audits are conducted by third parties, such  as the FDA and Notified Body, in accordance with their individual regulatory requirements.
Reporting of Violations and Incident Investigations/Corrective Actions
Our Hologic corporate field action procedure governs the process for managing field actions that apply to all products manufactured by or for Hologic.
 Hologic’s Corrective and Preventive Action Procedure
This procedure provides the minimum requirements for initiating, investigating and completing corrective and preventive actions. The corrective and preventive action system is intended to identify actions needed to correct and prevent recurrence of nonconforming product or other quality problems. 2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
56Topic SASB Code SASB Metrics Response
Affordability 
& PricingHC-MS-240a.1Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases to the 
annual increase in the U.S. Consumer Price IndexHologic operates primarily in mature markets, with stable pricing. This disclosure is not relevant to  our business and therefore we do not consider this information to be material to our investors or  external stakeholders.
HC-MS-240a.2Description of how price information for each product is disclosed to customersHologic competes vigorously, fairly and ethically. This includes providing transparent and accurate pricing  to our customers, and not discussing the agreed upon terms or pricing with any external party, including  other customers. 
Product SafetyHC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issues, total units recalledMetric is summarized in the Quality Management Systems section on page 51. There were three (3) recalls involving Hologic products reported in FDA’s Medical Device Recalls database for fiscal 2022:
•  Panther Fusion® Extraction Reagent-X [ID-Z-0750-2022].•  Panther Fusion® GBS [ID-Z-0877-2022].•  BioZorb® 3D Bioabsorbable Marker [ID-Z1858-2022].
HC-MS-250a.2List of product listed in FDA's MedWatch Safety Alerts for  
Human Medical Products DatabaseThere are zero (0) Hologic products listed in FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts database for fiscal 2022 to date. This is reported in the Quality Management Systems section.
HC-MS-250a.3Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User Facility Device ExperienceMetric is reported in the Quality Management Systems section. We reported one fatality for the fiscal year related to Hologic products:
•  MyoSure® Lite Tissue Removal Device [ID-1222780-2022-00176].It was not possible to confirm a relationship between the device and the issue reported and a definitive root 
cause for the reported event could not be determined.
HC-MS-250a.4Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeHologic has not been a subject of any enforcement actions (e.g., untitled letters, warning letters, seizures, injunctions or criminal prosecution) in fiscal 2022 for any of the divisions. This information is reported in the Quality Management Systems section on page 51. 
Ethical MarketingHC-MS-270a.1Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claimsThere have been no monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims. This is also reported in the ethical marketing summary within our Governance, Policies and Procedures section on page 54.
HC-MS-270a.2Description of code of ethics governing of off-label use  of productsReported in the ethical marketing summary within our Governance, Policies and Procedures section  on page 54.Reporting Frameworks
Hologic’s sustainability reporting is aligned with the Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB) reporting standards. In 2022, we expanded  
our sustainability reporting to include adhering to the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework for the first time.
Sustainability Accounting Standards (SASB)2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
57Topic SASB Code SASB Metrics Response
Product Design 
& Lifecycle ManagementHC-MS-410a.1Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental 
and human health considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet demand for sustainable productsReported in the Good Governance Workplace Health & Safety section on page 52. A chemical compliance process is in place following corporate procedures for REACH CORP-00147 and corporate procedure for  RoHS Compliance CORP-00146, EUMDR regulations. There is a corporate procedure on hazardous substances (CMR/EDs) CORP-00425. We work with a third party responsible for the collection of EU REACH, EU RoHS, EU MDR/IVDR Hazardous Substances and California Proposition 65 information on Hologic products. We also report to the EU WFD (SCIP) SVHCs above threshold. We continue a process improvement project, with the goal of expanding oversight on the identification of hazardous substances and to ensure our compliance with California Prop 65 and global environmental regulations. 
HC-MS-410a.2Total amount of products accepted for take-back and reused, recycled, or donatedReported in the Good Governance Workplace Health & Safety section on page 52, quantified below:
•  Breast & Skeletal Health: remanufactured/refurbished (3,985), returns (9,732).•  Molecular Diagnostics: remanufactured/refurbished (121), returns (198).•  GYN Surgical: remanufactured/refurbished (1,072), returns (1,275).
Supply Chain 
ManagementHC-MS-430a.1Percentage of entity's facilities and Tier 1 supplier's 
facilities participating in third-party audit programs for manufacturing and product qualityReported in the Supply Chain Management and Supply Chain Risk Management Supplier compliance and classifications reported on pages 49-50.
HC-MS-430a.2Description of efforts to maintain traceability within  the supply chainReported in the Supply Chain Management and Supply Chain Risk Management sections on pages 49-50.
HC-MS-430a.3Description of the management of risks associated  with use of critical materialsReported in the Supply Chain Management and Supply Chain Risk Management sections on pages 49-50.
Business EthicsHC-MS-510a.1Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with bribery or corruptionThere have been no monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with bribery or corruption. This is also reported in the Good Governance section’s outline of ethical interactions with healthcare professionals. 
HC-MS-510a.2Description of code of ethics governing interactions with  healthcare professionals
Reported in the Good Governance section’s outline of ethical interactions with healthcare professionals on page 55. This is also covered within the Hologic Code of Conduct .SASB (continued)2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
58Topic Recommended Disclosure Response
GovernanceDescribe the Board’s oversight of  
climate-related risks and opportunities.Led by our senior management team and overseen by our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee along with the Board of Directors, Hologic’s sustainability efforts are founded on the principle that virtually all business decisions have economic, environmental and social implications. We believe that integrating these considerations into our business strategy and decisions is an important part of growing the long-term success of the company and benefits our stockholders, customers and employees.
Describe management’s role in assessing and managing risks and opportunities.Risk oversight is handled by the full Board as well as at the individual committee level, with the Board focusing on the evolving business and risk landscape as described on page 47. Hologic’s risk management process focuses on a comprehensive but targeted annual ERM report, which is presented to the Board, as well as periodic reports on evolving risks and mitigating actions, as warranted. Additionally, the executive leadership team’s individual performance objectives are aligned with the top risks identified in the annual enterprise risk management process.
StrategyDescribe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium and long term.Hologic considers a variety of risks, as described on pages 32 and 47, when evaluating what is relevant to our climate assessment, including: policy, legal, technology, reputational, acute physical and chronic physical risk.
Short-term risks include (1) acute physical risk from extreme weather events, (2) transition risks emanating from potential regulation 
or utilization of alternative energy sources and (3) reputational risk as we continue to refine our sustainability strategy. All of which may necessitate additional capital expenditures or operating costs. 
Medium-term and long-term risks include chronic physical risk from longer-term changes in climate patterns, which may disrupt 
supply chains or commercial activity. Chronic physical risk also may increase capital expenditures, operating expenses or insurance claims liability.
Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.Short-term opportunities described on page 32 include resource efficiency by utilizing more efficient production and distribution processes, which may contribute to operating and emissions savings and reputational benefits. 
Medium-term and long-term opportunities include (1) energy source, by utilizing lower emission sources of energy, which may 
contribute to operational efficiencies and reputational benefits and (2) products and services developed with lower emissions may improve our competitive position, reputation and generate efficiencies. 
Hologic believes that integrating climate-related risks and opportunities into our business strategy and decisions is an important part 
of growing the long-term success of the company and benefits our stockholders, customers and employees. 
In the short-term, Hologic’s climate strategy is related to evaluating the preparedness of our physical facilities for extreme weather 
events, as well as making sure our products benefit from efficient production and distribution processes.
In the long-term, Hologic’s climate strategy is focused on maximizing returns for all of our stakeholders and is integrated into thought 
process around long-term environmental targets, operations, supply chain, as well as the related financial implications to revenue, direct and indirect costs and capital expenditures.
Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.Hologic understands the significant challenges that climate change presents. We will continue to work to understand different  climate-related scenarios and how to align environmental goals to avoid worldwide average temperatures increasing more than  2°C, recognizing the importance of the United Nations Climate Agreement.Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Index2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
59Topic Recommended Disclosure Response
Risk ManagementDescribe the organization’s processes for identifying  
and assessing climate-related risks.Hologic’s risk management process focuses on a comprehensive but targeted annual enterprise risk management assessment, which involves an enterprise risk management (ERM) report compiled by business leaders who have assessed risk throughout the business over a three-year horizon, focusing on financial risk, legal/compliance risk and operational/strategic risk. The ERM report details Hologic’s top ten risks as well as mitigating actions and plans relating to those risks. The ERM report, presented to and discussed with the Board each year, includes a rolling three-year evaluation period that reflects mitigation activity progress and risk rating changes. See pages 32 and 47 for more information.
Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks.Risk oversight, as described on pages 32 and 47, is handled by the full Board as well as at the individual committee level, with the Board focusing on the evolving business and risk landscape. Additionally, the executive leadership team’s individual performance objectives are aligned with the top risks identified in the annual enterprise risk management process.
Describe how processes for identifying, assessing,  and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.Risk oversight, as described on pages 32 and 47, is handled by the full Board as well as at the individual committee level, with the Board focusing on the evolving business and risk landscape. The company’s ERM report is presented annually to the Board along with periodic reports on evolving risks and mitigating actions, as warranted. 
Metrics & TargetsDisclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.Hologic monitors and reports on greenhouse gas emissions. We also track internal projects, such as installing solar panels at our Costa Rica facility, which are intended to reduce our carbon footprint, as described on page 30. 
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks.2022 Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions: 7,427 Metric Ton CO
2e Scope 1 and 12,512 Metric Ton CO2e Scope 2, as described  
on page 28.
We have focused on Scope 1 and 2 emissions to inform our energy sourcing initiatives. As we continue to develop Hologic’s 
sustainability program we will baseline our Scope 3 emissions.
Describe the targets used by the organization to  manage climate-related risks and opportunities  and performance against targets.•  Achieve a 15% reduction in non-hazardous/non-recyclable waste by 2025.
•  Achieve a 30% reduction of Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 2030.•  Achieve a 40% reliance on self-generated renewable energy on owned sites by 2030.•  Convert to 50% renewable electricity by 2030 and 75% renewable electricity by 2035.All reduction targets use a 2020 baseline. The preceding goals pertain to Operational Sites and are expressed as a  
percentage of revenue. Details appear on pages 28-29.Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Index (continued)2022 Hologic Sustainability ReportFrom Our CEO      Our Purpose      Championing Women      Our Communities      The Environment     Our People      Good Governance 
60This report contains forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties, including 
statements about the company’s plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Such statements include, without limitation: financial or other information based upon or otherwise incorporating judgments or estimates relating to future performance, events or expectations; the company’s strategies, positioning, resources, capabilities, and expectations for future performance; and the company’s outlook and financial and other guidance. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions made by the company as of the date hereof and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from  those anticipated. 
Risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the company’s business and prospects, 
and otherwise cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, include without limitation: the ongoing and possible future effects of global challenges, including macroeconomic uncertainties, the war in Ukraine, other economic disruptions and U.S. and global recession concerns, on the company’s customers and suppliers and on the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the company’s ability to draw down its revolver; the effect of the worldwide political and social uncertainty and divisions, including the impact on trade regulation and tariffs, that may adversely impact the cost and sale of the company’s products in certain countries, or increase the costs the company may incur to purchase materials, parts and equipment from its suppliers; the ongoing and possible future effects of supply chain constraints, including the availability of critical raw materials and components, including semiconductor chips, as well as cost inflation in materials, packaging and transportation; the possibility of interruptions or delays at the company’s manufacturing facilities, or the failure to secure alternative suppliers if any of the company’s sole source third-party manufacturers fail to supply the company; the development of new competitive technologies and products and competition; the company’s ability to predict accurately the demand for its products, and products under development and to develop strategies to address markets successfully; continued demand for the company’s COVID-19 assays; the timing, scope and effect of further U.S. and international governmental, regulatory, fiscal, monetary and public health responses to the COVID-19 pandemic and any future public health crises; potential cybersecurity threats and targeted computer crime; the ability to execute acquisitions and the impact and anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions and acquisitions the company may complete in the future; the ability to consolidate certain of the company’s manufacturing and other operations on a timely basis and within budget, without disrupting its business and to achieve anticipated cost synergies related to such actions; the ability of the company to successfully manage leadership and organizational changes, including the ability of the company to attract, motivate and retain key employees and maintain engagement and efficiency in remote work environments; the ability to obtain regulatory approvals and clearances for the company’s products, including the implementation of the European Union Medical Device Regulations, and to maintain compliance with complex and evolving regulations; the company’s reliance on third-party reimbursement policies to support the sales and market acceptance of its products, including the possible adverse impact of government regulation and changes in the availability and amount of reimbursement and uncertainties for new products or product enhancements; changes to applicable laws and regulations, including tax laws, global health care reform, and import/export trade laws; changes in guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations that could affect the use of the company’s products; uncertainties inherent in the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products, including FDA approval and/or clearance and other regulatory risks, technical risks, cost overruns and delays; the risk that products may contain undetected errors or defects or otherwise not perform as anticipated; risks associated with strategic alliances and the ability of the company to realize anticipated benefits of those alliances; the risks of conducting business internationally; the risk of adverse exchange rate fluctuations on the company’s international activities and businesses; the early stage of market development for certain of the company’s products; the company’s leverage risks, including the company’s obligation to meet payment obligations and financial covenants associated with its debt; risks related to the use and protection of intellectual property; expenses, uncertainties and potential liabilities relating to litigation, including, without limitation, commercial, intellectual property, employment and product liability litigation; and technical innovations that could render products marketed or under development by the company obsolete. 
The risks included above are not exhaustive. Other factors that could adversely affect the 
company’s business and prospects are described in the filings made by the company with the SEC, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates  or revisions to any such statements presented herein to reflect any change in expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based. Hologic and associated logos are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Hologic, Inc.  and/or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries.
This report contains certain financial measures that have not been prepared in accordance  
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The non-GAAP financial measures  used in this report adjust for specified items that can be highly variable or difficult to predict.  The company generally uses these non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate management’s financial and operational decision-making, including evaluation of Hologic’s historical operating results, comparison to competitors’ operating results and determination of management  incentive compensation. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of the company’s operations that, when viewed with GAAP results and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of  factors and trends affecting Hologic’s business.
These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to, and not a substitute 
for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The company’s definition of these non-GAAP measures may differ from similarly titled measures used by others.
Because non-GAAP financial measures exclude the effect of items that will increase or decrease 
the company’s reported results of operations, management strongly encourages you to review the company’s consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in this report.
Hologic and associated logos are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Hologic, Inc.  
and/or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries.
Safe Harbor Statement61Enabling healthier lives everywhere, every day.  
Follow Hologic’s sustainability journey at  hologic.com/sustainabilityInvestor Relations:
Ryan Simon  
Vice President, Investor Relations  
858.410.8514  
ryan.simon@hologic.comMedia Relations:Jane Mazur  
Vice President, Communications  
508.263.8764  
jane.mazur@hologic.com
MISC-08685 © 2023 Hologic Inc. All rights reserved. Hologic and The Science of Sure are trademarks of Hologic Inc. Other trademarks, logos, and slogans registered or used by Hologic and its divisions and subsidiaries in the United States and other countries 
include, but are not limited to, the following: ThinPrep, 3D Mammography, Genius, 3Dimensions, Genius 3D, Panther Fusion, Aptima, Novodiag, SmartCurve, Affirm, Clarity HD+ 3D, Aptima Combo 2, MyoSure, Tigris, DTS, NovaSure, Rapid fFN, Selenia, Breast Cancer Index, Dimensions, Acessa, and Acessa ProVu. All other trademarks, registered trademarks and product names are the property of their respective owners.