A Global  Force  for Good 2021 Sustainability Report CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 1  CEO   Letter A Message from Our Chairman, President and CEO Purpose-Driven Company  Financial Highlights Research and Development History of Innovation   Materiality and Stakeholders U.N. Sustainable Development Goals A Champion for Women Hologic Global Women’s Health Index  Project Health Equality Unique Culture World-Class Engagement  Hologic Costa Rica: Putting Employees First Spotlight on Leadership and Information Security  Global Citizenship  Making an Impact  Global Access Initiative Philanthropy Product Donations Minority-Owned Banking The Environment Strong Governance Governance and Shareholder Engagement 46  Board Transformation and Structure Compensation Philosophy and Structure Governance Policies and Procedures Information Security Governance 54  Clinical Trials 56  Quality Management System Content Workplace Health and Safety Supply Chain Management Employee Workforce Composition SASB Table 663   CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance Dear Hologic Stakeholders: Thank you for reading our third sustainability report.
We are proud of the progress we have made on ESG priorities  over the last several years, excited about the many opportunities  still ahead, and eager to tell you more in this report.
We believe we  have a unique and compelling story to share.
But before we get into that, I wanted to discuss one of my pet  peeves — false choices, also sometimes called false dilemmas or  false dichotomies.
You know what I’m talking about.
Someone presents only two  choices, and claims that one must be true, and the other false.
These logical fallacies — you’re either for us, or you’re against us —  are problematic because they oversimplify choices by excluding  many viable options.
These statements have become altogether too common in today’s  polarized political environment, especially when they’re amplified  by those who are unconcerned with civil debate: if you like  candidate ______, you must be a ______.
So what does this have to do with Hologic’s sustainability efforts,  or ESG investing?
Unfortunately, false choices are creeping into business as well  – many expect CEOs to choose between the short-term and the  long-term.
Or between purpose and profits.
Or between people  and profits.
But at Hologic, we don’t believe we have to choose.
In fact, our  unique purpose compels us to manage the Company to grow in  both the short term and the long term, for the collective  benefit of  customers, patients, employees and shareholders.
To us, this is  what sustainability is all about.We crystallized this perspective back in 2019, when I wrote in our  proxy letter that, “We have a fundamental obligation to create  value for shareholders through profitable, long-term growth.
But this cannot be the whole story.
To focus solely on financial  outcomes would be to ignore the multifaceted, instrumental role  that corporations play in our world.” In that same letter, I quoted Russell Pearlman of the Korn Ferry  Institute, who said, “purpose and profit not only peacefully co-exist,  but purpose can drive profit.” Later that year, the Business Roundtable published its seminal  “Statement on the Purpose of a Corporation.” Importantly, the  statement does not  rank various constituencies or prioritize  one versus another.
Instead it says, “ Each of our stakeholders is  essential.
We commit to deliver value to all of them , for the future  success of our companies, our communities and our country.”  More recently, Dick Patton and German Herrera expanded  on this theme in discussing the Egon Zehnder report “It Starts  with the CEO,” which involved nearly 1,000 global CEOs. They  wrote, “[CEOs] are being asked to expand their leadership role to  embrace a far wider group of stakeholders, demanding more than  just strong financial results.
So leaders really need to break away  from an either/or approach  and boldly tackle the realities with a  both/and approach .” These comments rang true as I reflected on Hologic’s accom - plishments in fiscal 2021.
We achieved both  tremendous financial  results, and we used this success to make a unique difference  in the world, in authentic ways that leveraged Hologic’s specific  business capabilities and culture.
The graphic on the facing page illustrates this very well, and I’d like  to discuss each of the interconnected pieces.
A Message from Our Chairman, President and CEO Purpose, Passion, Promise At the center, everything at Hologic starts with our purpose,  passion and promise, which we first shared broadly in 2019.
Our purpose is to enable healthier lives everywhere and every  day.
Our passion is to become global champions for women’s  health.
And our promise is what we call The Science of Sure,  a commitment to help healthcare providers minimize doubt  and maximize the confidence they have in their decisions and  diagnoses.
Our purpose, passion and promise galvanize and  guide our employees, and serve as a rock-solid foundation for  our business strategies.
Grow Revenues and Profits For example, when COVID-19 emerged as the greatest health- care challenge of our lifetimes, we knew that we were in a unique  position to make a difference.
We immediately began developing  two highly accurate molecular COVID assays for laboratories  to run on our global fleet of automated Panther instruments.
At  the same time, we began making plans to dramatically increase  manufacturing capacity for both assays and systems.
As a result,  through the end of December, we have provided more than  150 million COVID tests to our customers in more than 50 coun - tries around the world, truly enabling healthier lives everywhere  and every day.In fiscal 2021, demand for COVID tests remained high, even as our  base women’s health businesses recovered from pandemic-   related pressures.
As a result, revenue and profits grew dramati - cally.
We generated more than $5.6 billion of revenue for the year,  up nearly 50% versus the prior year in constant currency.
This led  to non-GAAP EPS of $8.41, more than double our earnings in 2020.
What’s more, the cash flow generated from sales of our COVID  assays enabled us to buy six companies to accelerate the growth  of our diagnostics, breast health and surgical businesses.
Since  the pandemic began, we have spent more than $1.3 billion on  these acquisitions, even while boosting capital investments and  repurchasing more than $500 million of our own stock.
So in fiscal 2021, our excellent financial performance helped us  strengthen our business for the future.
In addition, it enabled us to  invest more aggressively in two initiatives to deepen our impact  on the world.Steve MacMillan unveils data from the Hologic  Global Women’s Health Index at the Concordia  Summit, which promotes partnership between  world governments, leading businesses  and non-profits to address the world’s most  pressing needs.Helps  More W omen Grow R evenues  and Proﬁts Enables Things  Like the Global W omen ’s  Health Index and Project  Health EqualityIncreases  Access, P olicy ,  and DiagnosisPURPOSE.
PASSION .
PROMISE .5   CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance Enables Things Like the Hologic Global Women’s  Health Index and Project Health Equality   First, we developed the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index  (see page 16) and released its inaugural findings.
As leaders  in diagnostics, we understand the importance of data and  know that what we can measure, we can improve.
We also  know that women’s health has been overlooked for centuries  around the world.
That’s why we created the Index, the first to  statistically represent the health of 2.5 billion women and girls  globally.
Developed in partnership with Gallup, the Index is an  unprecedented, in-depth examination of critical markers for  women’s health by country and territory, and over time.
Based on responses from the 120,000 people surveyed,  women’s health needs are not being met globally.
Notably, 40%  of those surveyed – equating to about a billion women and  girls – had not talked to a healthcare professional in the last year.
In addition, 60% – equating to about 1.5 billion women and girls  – had not been tested in the last year for four common diseases  that affect women’s health: cancer, diabetes, high blood pressure  and sexually transmitted infections.
This data clearly shows that  providing good preventive care is a significant challenge around  the world, and illustrates how much more we need to do to drive  early disease detection in women.
While we have made a tremendous impact on women’s health  through our innovative and life-saving products, our Index may  ultimately prove to be our most significant accomplishment for  women’s health.
Second, we formally launched Project Health Equality (see page  20), a $20 million-plus initiative that accelerates and expands  our efforts to increase screening and care across a spectrum of  life-threatening conditions – breast cancer, cervical cancer and  abnormal uterine bleeding – that disproportionately affect Black  and Hispanic women.
For example, compared to white women,  Black women in the United States are 40% more likely to die from  breast cancer, and Hispanic women are 22% more likely to be  diagnosed with cervical cancer.
Project Health Equality is employing a holistic, three-pronged  approach to address the structural and cultural barriers that  continue to exacerbate inequality in women’s healthcare: • Supporting actionable research into cultural, social and  economic disparities.
• Providing patient and provider awareness and education  through health advocates, non-profit partners and celebrity  spokespeople.
• Expanding access to state-of-the-art care for thousands of  underserved women.
By focusing on these priorities in an integrated way, we can help  Black and Hispanic women receive the high-quality healthcare  they need and deserve.
Increases Access, Policy and Diagnosis It’s important to emphasize that the Hologic Global Women’s  Health Index and Project Health Equality were made possible  by our business success, and can help establish an environment  in which our businesses prosper in the future.
They are a great  example of a point the Business Roundtable made in their 2019  statement, that “the free-market system is the best means of gen - erating good jobs, a strong and sustainable economy, innovation,  a healthy environment and economic opportunity for all.”   More specifically, they can help increase access to state-of-the-art  care, promote a more appropriate public policy environment, and  ultimately lead to better, more timely diagnoses for women.
For example, as we share data from our Hologic Global Women’s  Health Index with international leaders, elected officials and health  organizations, we are providing an actionable, science-backed,  data roadmap for improving life expectancy and quality of life for  women around the world.
And by teaming up with leading non-profit organizations focused  on minority health such as RAD-AID and the Black Women’s  Health Imperative, we can drive culturally competent care that  ultimately decreases the disparities that lead to disproportionate  mortality rates for Black and Hispanic women.
4 2021 Hologic Sustainability Report Helps More Women In short, these initiatives enable us to help more women, which  in turn drives higher revenue and profit, kicking off another cycle  of investment.
While helping more women is clearly the most important thing  Hologic can do to advance a more sustainable world, we know we  can contribute in other ways as well.
For example, while we’ve already made good progress in building  a diverse, high-performing workforce by focusing on talent and  engagement, we are pleased to share some additional metrics on  page 62 of this report so you can track our future success.
In addition, based on the nature of our business and manufactur - ing processes, our environmental footprint is fairly light relative to  many companies our size.
We nonetheless recognize that we can  do more in this area, which is why we’re rolling out new goals and  additional reporting on page 42.
Let me close by mentioning that we are honored to have received  some recognition recently for our ESG efforts over the last year.
The Drucker Institute ranked Hologic in the top 20 percent of most  effectively managed companies, Investors Business Daily named  us one of its top 100 ESG stocks, we were added to the Dow  Jones Sustainability Index North America, and Newsweek named  us one of America’s 500 most responsible companies.In terms of the Dow Jones index, it’s gratifying to see that our  performance on their exhaustive “Corporate Sustainability  Assessment,” which assesses ESG criteria, has improved every  single year since we first completed the survey in 2016.
At that  time, we scored in the 16th percentile compared to peers.
Rather  than lament that rating, we did what we always do – we immedi - ately got to work to get better.
As a result, we recently scored in  the 87th percentile of the index, placing us in the top 20% of the  600 largest companies in S&P’s North American universe.
So  we’ve had a steady climb, one that accurately reflects the progress  we have made on our ESG priorities.
We have lots more to do, to be sure.
But we have a great founda - tion on which to build, a mission that everyone can rally around,  and a highly engaged workforce to make it happen.
I truly believe  we are one of the most special companies in the world, making a  profound difference on human health through our own success.
We look forward to sharing our continued progress, and to your  feedback.
Sincerely,Steve MacMillan talks with journalist Katie Couric, whose company Katie  Couric Media has partnered with Hologic to improve women’s health.
A message from our Chairman, President and CEO.To link directly to this video on YouTube go here .CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 7  Purpose-   Driven   CompanyPurpose-Driven Company  Financial Highlights Research and Development History of Innovation   Materiality and Stakeholders U.N. Sustainable Development Goals CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 9 9  Financial Highlights The healthcare markets in which we participate   are characterized by rapid technological  change, frequent product introductions and  evolving customer requirements.
Investment  in research and development (R&D) is critical  to driving our future growth.
Hologic has demonstrated a longstanding commitment to R&D  and has spent more than $1.6 billion over the past seven years,  including approximately $259 million in 2021 — an 18% increase  compared to the prior year.
Hologic’s R&D pipeline remains  robust as evidenced by strong product launches such as: • Panther®: As a fully automated instrument, with a broad  menu of 19 assays, Panther® helps guide patient care and  enable early detection in molecular diagnostics.
In 2021 we  significantly increased our Panther® installed base to meet  customer demand.
• Aptima® BV/CV/TV Assays, which diagnose vaginitis, a very  common and complex health issue affecting millions of  women each year.
• Aptima® Mycoplasma Genitalium (Mgen) Assay, the  first FDA-cleared test to detect this common sexually  transmitted infection.• Brevera® Breast Biopsy System, a breakthrough in biopsy  efficiency, streamlining the entire breast biopsy process -  with real-time imaging and post-biopsy specimen handling.
• Fluent® Fluid Management System, which transforms the  fluid management experience for hysteroscopic procedures.
Furthermore , 2021 was a year highlighted by several important  R&D milestones: • ThinPrep® Pap test: 25 years ago, the FDA approved the  innovative ThinPrep® Pap test for cervical cancer screening.
Since that first market entry in the United States, more than  1 billion ThinPrep® test have been sold worldwide.
That   means millions of women have gained a greater chance   against cervical cancer because of our detection technology • 3D Mammography: 2021 marked the 10-year anniversary  of Hologic’s pioneering invention of 3D mammography, a  technology that still sets the worldwide standard for digital  breast tomosynthesis today.
Our R&D efforts are focused on improving existing products and  developing new ones to solve customer challenges and meet  the world’s future healthcare needs.
We remain committed to  fueling sustainable growth by enhancing new product pipelines  in each of our businesses.Research and DevelopmentTrack Record of Annual Revenue Growth Non-GAAP EPS Growing Faster than Revenue GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation$6,$5,$4,$3,$2,$1,$2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.4%9.9%5.4%8.3%4.3%5.7%12.1%46.5% $2,511 $2,705 $2,833$ 3,059 $3,218 $3,367 $3,776 $5,1.
Total non-GAAP revenue growth in millions.
Growth rates in constant currency .
As reported ex cept FY14, which ex cludes ~$20 million     one-time revenue from amending R oka license.
R esults include contributions from the Blood Screening business that was dives ted      in 2017,  the Medical Aesthetics business that was acquired in 2017 and divested in 2020 , and other smaller acquisitions.
$9.$8.$7.$6.$5.$4.$3.$2.$1.$0.2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021-2.7%14.4%17.4% 3.6%9.9%9.0%63.8%111.3% $1.46 $1.67 $1.96 $2.03 $2.23 $2.43 $3.98 $8.* Non-GAAP EPS as presented in our earnings releases ex cept FY14, which ex cludes ~$0.05 one-time contribution from amending  Roka license.
R esults include contributions from the Blood Screening business that was divested in 2017 , the Medical Aesthetics  business that was acquired in 2017 and divested in 2020 , and other smaller acquisitions.
Year Ended Earnings per share 9/25/21 9/26/20 9/28/19 9/29/18 9/30/17 9/24/16 9/26/GAAP earnings (loss) per share (EPS) 7.21 4.21 (0.76) (0.40) 2.64 1.16 0.Non-GAAP adjustments 1.20 (0.23) 3.1912.632(0.61) 0.80 1.Adjusted EPS 8.41 3.98 2.43 2.23 2.03 1.96 1.Adjusted EPS growth from prior year 111% 64% 9% 10% 3% 17% 11% 5-year average adjusted EPS growth 39% 1 .
Assumes dilution of 1.9 million shares for the year ended September 28, 2019.
2.
Assumes dilution of 2.8 million shares for the year ended September 29, 2018.Who We Are Hologic is an innovative medical  technology company primarily focused on  improving women’s health and well-being  through early detection and treatment.
What We Do We deliver life-changing and life-saving  detection, diagnostic and surgical  innovations that are rooted in science.
We  are driven by technology and are inspired  by a desire to improve the health of women  and families around the world.
Why It Matters  Our exceptional, clinically proven products  detect, diagnose and treat illnesses earlier  and better.
While we focus on women’s  health and well-being, we are committed  to enabling healthier lives everywhere,  every day.
CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 11 11  Our History of Innovation FDA approves the  ThinPrep® Pap test, liquid- based cytology for cervical  cancer screening.FDA approves the   Rapid fFN® test.Hologic introduces the  first dual-energy X-ray  absorptiometry system for  evaluating osteoporosis.
FDA clears the first  nucleic acid test.FDA clears the first  molecular diagnostic  test kit for a sexually  transmitted infection.19871985 19951996Release of the  Tigris® DTS® system for  automated screening  of sexually transmitted  infections (STIs).FDA approves the Selenia®  mammography system—the  beginning of a new era in  breast cancer screening.
FDA approves the first  nucleic acid test for  screening donated blood  prior to transfusion.2003 2002FDA approves the NovaSure®  endometrial ablation  treatment for abnormal  uterine bleeding (AUB).
FDA approves the  Procleix® Ultrio®* triplex  blood screening assay for  HIV-1, hepatitis B and C.
FDA approves the MyoSure®  tissue removal procedure for  the hysteroscopic treatment  of uterine tissue, including  fibroids and polyps.20102011FDA clears the  new Affirm® prone  biopsy system.FDA clears the use of  the bone densitometer  for assessing three  critical health problems,  including osteoporosis.
2012 2016 FDA grants clearance to  the new Aptima® BV and  Aptima® CV/TV assays,  which provide an accurate  and objective method  for diagnosing vaginitis.Acessa® launches ProVu,  a laparoscopic system for  effective and safe treatment  of uterine fibroids.Mobidiag develops and  markets new near-to-patient  molecular testing system.
FDA clears Clarity HD high- resolution 3D™ imaging  and the SmartCurve™  breast stabilization system,  providing superior image  quality and a clinically  proven solution for a more  comfortable mammogram.2017 20192020 FDA grants Emergency  Use Authorization (EUA) for  the Panther Fusion® SARS- CoV-2 and Aptima® SARS- CoV-2 assays, molecular  diagnostic tests detecting  the novel coronavirus.Biotheranostics launches Breast  Cancer Index™ , a test that  helps breast cancer survivors  make clearer decisions about  extended endocrine therapy.
FDA approves the break-   through Selenia Dimensions®   digital tomosynthesis system   with the Hologic   3D Mammography™ exam.Introduction of CE-marked  virology portfolio, including  Aptima® HIV, HCV and  HBV assays, along with the  Aptima® M.
genitalium assay.FDA clears the Panther®  system, an automated,  integrated molecular  platform for use with the  Aptima Combo 2® assay.
ESG Recognition • Investors Business Daily named Hologic one of its top 100 ESG stocks • Drucker Institute ranked Hologic among top 20 percent of most   effectively managed companies • Hologic added to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America • Hologic added to the S&P 500 ESG Index • Hologic added to Newsweek’s list of America’s Most Responsible Companies  CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong GovernanceMateriality and Stakeholders A critical component of developing our 2021 Sustainability Report  was to evaluate our materiality assessment to confirm the key  environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that are most  important to our stakeholders, including investors, employees and  customers.
We consider a wide range of stakeholders to influence  our environmental, social and governance strategy.
Stakeholder Groups • Customers • Employees • Investors • Suppliers • Healthcare organizations • Distributors • Regulatory agencies and governments • Industry leaders • The local communities where we operate  Our ESG disclosures are managed by a cross-functional internal  steering committee consisting of senior leaders from Operations,  Finance, Legal, Human Resources, Communications and Investor  Relations.
The ongoing goal of this committee is to identify  material sustainability topics and establish a corresponding  sustainability reporting framework.
The committee relies on shareholders’ feedback, sustainability  frameworks and guidelines such as those published by the  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Task Force on Climate Related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and the U.N. Global Compact and  Sustainable Development Goals.
In addition, we use peer external  benchmarking and ESG data providers’ scoring methodologies  to identify new areas of focus and opportunities.
These insights,  along with our management team’s contributions, inform our  materiality framework and help us identify relevant topics  for disclosure.
We are committed to incorporating these material issues into our  business operations, to focusing on the topics that matter most to  our business and stakeholders, and to continually evaluating our  sustainability issues for the future.
12 2021 Hologic Sustainability ReportHologic’s Commitment  to U.N. Sustainable  Development Goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by  all United Nations Member States in 2015 with a goal to end  poverty, protect the environment and ensure that all people  enjoy peace and prosperity.
When performing our materiality  assessment, we considered Hologic’s unique opportunity to  make a positive impact on the world, and we identified the fol - lowing areas most relevant to Hologic: Good Health and Well  Being (3); Quality Education (4); Gender Equality (5); Decent  Work and Economic Growth (8); Industry, Innovation, and  Infrastructure (9); Reduced Inequalities (10); and Responsible  Consumption and Production (12).
PURPOSE-DRIVEN COMPANY, CHAMPION  FOR WOMEN, GLOBAL CITIZENSHIPUNIQUE CULTURE STRONG GOVERNANCE • Access to Healthcare • Product Innovation • The Environment • Philanthropic Impact• Talent • Engagement  • Diversity• Board Role and Structure • Compensation • Risk Management • Policies and Ethics • Sustainable Supply Chain • Product Quality and Compliance13 13  Hologic Costa Rica aims to achieve “zero waste” status, as designated by  the Zero Waste International Alliance, in fiscal year 2025.
CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance Material ESG IssuesCEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 15  A Champion for Women Hologic Global Women’s Health Index  Project Health Equality 20 A   Champion   for Women CEO Letter   Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women  Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 17  The Why As a leader in women’s health for more than three decades,  Hologic has an extensive track record of providing best-in-class  products that improve women’s lives through prevention,  screening and treatment for health conditions including breast  cancer, cervical cancer and abnormal uterine bleeding.
In 2019,  leaders within Hologic began to discuss how to drive, lead and  own the conversation around women’s health globally, especially  as it relates to creating cooperation between the public and  private sectors.
The How Starting in 2019, in consultation with international public health  and medical experts and the Gallup World Poll research team,  Hologic developed a set of questions designed to consistently  measure women’s experiences with health issues and changes  over time.
Throughout 2020, Gallup asked 120,000 women and  men in 116 countries and territories these Hologic questions,  along with questions that the World Poll has been asking for  almost two decades about general health, opinions of available  quality healthcare, safety, food and shelter, and emotional health.
Responses to both sets of questions were compiled to produce  the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index, with each country  rated from 1 to 100.
Gallup calculated Individual Index scores,  followed by a weighted average of scores across five dimensions:  Opinions of Health and Safety, Basic Needs, Preventive Care,  Individual Health, and Emotional Health.
Some of the findings were not unexpected.
For example, income  and education levels correlated closely with health disparities,  both within and between countries.
This plays out in nearly  all regions of the world, where women in the richest 20% of a  population’s income distribution are substantially more likely to  score higher on the Index than those in the poorest 20%.
The Hologic Global Women’s Health Index –  Pathways to a Healthy Future for Women Surprisingly, however, although wealthy countries averaged  higher scores than low-income countries, none was particularly  impressive.
Taiwan, Austria and Finland were the highest scoring  at 69, 67 and 65, respectively.
The United States received a  score of 61, which is on par with the average among higher- income countries.
These conversations led to the concept of an index that provides  a single, worldwide view of key indicators—unlike anything that  currently exists—through which Hologic could engage with world  leaders to help them better understand and address one of the  most fundamental issues in society – women’s health.
Five Dimensions Key to Women’s Health Explain 80% of Female Life Expectancy Basic Needs Emotional Health Preventive Care Opinions of Health and Safety Preventive Care Gauges whether women in the past year have  been tested or screened for four common,  fast-growing and damaging diseases: high  blood pressure, cancer, diabetes and sexually  transmitted diseases.
Higher scores on the  Preventive Care dimension mean more women  are getting tested for these health factors.Basic Needs Gauges women’s ability to meet their basic  needs in the last 12 months in terms of being  able to buy the food their family needed and  provide adequate shelter.
Higher scores on  the Basic Needs dimension mean fewer women  are struggling to afford the food and shelter  they need.
Emotional Health Gauges women’s daily experiences of negative  feelings with worry, sadness, stress  and  anger.
Higher scores on the Emotional Health  dimension mean fewer women are experiencing  negative feelings on a given day.Opinions of Health and Safety Gauges women’s satisfaction with access to quality healthcare care in general, whether they think pregnant  women receive high-quality care, and whether they feel safe walking alone at night.
Higher scores on the  Opinions of Health and Safety dimension mean more women feel safe and satisfied with the quality and  availability of healthcare where they live.
Individual Health Gauges whether women experienced pain  in the last day or if they have health problems  that prevent them from doing things people  their age would normally do.
Higher scores on  the Individual Health dimension mean fewer women are experiencing health problems  and pain on a given day.“As a science-based company, Hologic knows that having quality data on women’s health is  important to making good decisions.
The challenge is that in most of the world, these data   are at best lacking, or at worst, nonexistent.”   — Steve MacMillan, Hologic Chairman, President and CEO Key Findings The world has room to improve on women’s health: On a scale of 1 to 100, the average Hologic  Global Women’s Health Index score is 54.
There is extreme inequity in women’s health.
Women  in high-income economies — which make up just 17%  of women surveyed — score a 61 on the Index, as  compared to 49 in low-income economies.
Most women (88%) believe checkups help improve  people’s health, but many (40%) haven’t seen a  healthcare professional in the past 12 months.Sixty-one percent — or more than 1.5 billion women  — did not get tested for any of the most damaging  diseases for women in the past  12 months.
Hologic Global Women’s Health Index scores  correlate more closely with average life expectancy  than any other survey today.
The Index represents more than 92 percent of women age 15 and older globally.
CEO Letter   Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women  Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 19  than one in 10 women said they had.
Even in the relatively high  income country of Japan, the figure was only 2%.
“Preventive measures are a crucial first step to combatting  diseases and infections affecting life expectancy and fertility  in women,” said Susan Harvey, MD, Hologic’s Vice President  of Global Medical Affairs.
“Failing to ensure women get  routine testing for cancers, sexually transmitted diseases  and infections, and cardiometabolic diseases can lead to  larger complications that would otherwise be preventable if  monitored or treated early.” What Comes Next Hologic has presented its Index findings to world leaders at   significant forums, beginning with the 11th Annual Concordia  Summit in New York City, a September meeting of corporate  executives, politicians, non-profit leaders and entrepreneurs  focused on sustainability.
Later in 2021, Hologic shared the results of its Global Women’s  Health Index with leading organizations including The World Bank,  World Health Organization and UNICEF.
“Since founding the Susan G.
Komen Foundation almost 40  years ago, and the Promise Fund, I have never seen a public  outreach that will have as large a positive impact on women’s  health globally as the work that Hologic and Gallup are doing  together on the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index.”   – Nancy Brinker, founder, Susan G.
Komen Foundation  “For all the products we’ve made over our Company’s lifetime  - 3D mammography, the PAP test and HPV test – the data we  get from the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index may turn  out to have the biggest impact on human health of anything  we have ever done.
Having been at the forefront of so many  innovations in women’s health, we thought who better to  organize and conduct a global effort to obtain answers in our  space of healthcare.”   — Steve MacMillan, Hologic Chairman, President and CEOThe Findings Higher scores on the overall Index mean more women are having  positive healthcare experiences.
But with a global average of 54  out of 100, the world has room to improve.
“In fact, all countries and territories do,” said Jan Verstreken,  Hologic’s Group President, International.
“No one country   or territory scored higher than 69, and they ranged downward  to a low of 36.” Countries and territories with the highest scores on the Index  have healthcare systems with strong infrastructure for testing  and preventive care.
All those with the highest overall scores  on the Index are high-income economies with either universal  government-funded or public insurance systems.
Women in these  countries almost universally have their basic needs met, with  scores in the Basic Needs dimension in the 90s in most countries.
The countries and territories with the lowest scores on the  Index all share high income inequality and weak or destabilized  infrastructure for healthcare.
Social protection programs like those in Australia/New Zealand  are typically associated with better health, including lower  mortality rates among the disadvantaged and most vulnerable  populations.
These programs and policies may help explain why  the gap between the richest and poorest in the region is narrower  in Australia/New Zealand than any other region of the world.
Australia/New Zealand had the highest regional ranking, and in  these countries, level of education and age at first pregnancy did  not impact women’s scores.
Countries and territories that spend more per capita on healthcare  tend to earn higher scores on the overall Index – except for the  United States, which spends the most and scores a 61.
Most of  the countries that lead on the Index also lead in how much of their  wealth they funnel back into their health system – including places  such as Austria (67), Norway (65), and Switzerland (64).
And the  inverse is true for the countries and territories that spend the least  on healthcare – such as the lowest-ranking country, Peru (36).
Globally, no country or territory tested more than 37% of women  for any type of cancer – and in a host of countries, the percentage  is less than 10%.
Worldwide, just 12% of women said they had  been tested for any type of cancer in the past 12 months.
But  numbers were in the single digits in nearly 40 countries and  territories, including the less than 1% of women who said they  were tested in Pakistan, where breast cancer rates are thought to  be the highest in Asia.
Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) can have serious long-term  consequences, including fertility problems and an increased risk  of cervical cancer for women.
However, worldwide, only about  one in nine women (11%) said they had been tested for an STD/STI  in the past 12 months.
In fact, in 56 countries and territories, fewer The Questions that Comprise the  Hologic Global Women’s Health Index ·  Do you think most pregnant women in the city  or area where you live receive high-quality   healthcare during their pregnancies, or not?
·  Do you think going to a healthcare professional,  such as a medical doctor or a nurse, at least  once every 12 months for a check-up can help  people improve their health, or not?
·  In the past 12 months, have you talked to a  healthcare professional, such as a medical  doctor or nurse, about your own health?
·  To the best of your knowledge, were you tested  for any of the following in the past 12 months?
[High Blood Pressure, Cancer, Diabetes, STDs/ STIs]?
·  How many children do you, personally, have?
·  How old were you the first time you  were pregnant?
·  In your opinion, is domestic violence a wide - spread problem in [country name], or not?
Health Expenditure Per Capita and the Hologic Global Women’s Health Index 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 7,000 8,000Peru6,000 9,000 10,000Republic  of the CongoBrazilIranEthiopia GreeceCyprusVietnamLatvia PortugalFinland New Zealand Japan CanadaItalyAustria Norway Switzerland United StatesIrelandCEO Letter   Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women  Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 21  20 2021 Hologic Sustainability ReportProject Health Equality – Expanding Access to  Quality Healthcare for Underserved Women Hologic has been a champion of women’s health for more  than three decades, with contributions including the first 3D  mammography instrument, which offers more sensitive breast  cancer detection, to the first liquid-based Pap test, which has  helped to improve cervical disease detection and drive down  rates of cervical cancer.
Stemming from a desire to share these healthcare advances  with more women, Hologic established Project Health Equality,  a community health initiative that strives to address the structural,  cultural and systemic barriers that prevent Black and Hispanic  women in the U.S. from receiving the same quality healthcare  and treatment as white women.
Launched in late 2019, the  project leverages crucial partners within these communities  to make meaningful, sustainable healthcare improvements.
“Project Health Equality is a multifaceted, multiyear investment  of more than $20 million to drive research, education and  access to ensure women of color receive the care they want,  need and deserve,” said Karleen Oberton, Chief Financial  Officer at Hologic.
“It’s an ambitious goal, but we are aiming to  decrease the current disparities that lead to disproportionate  mortality for Black and Hispanic women.” Project Health Equality initiated with the donation of breast cancer  screening equipment, as well as a portable mammography van, to  Washington, DC-based Breast Care for Washington.
Specifically,  the donation included access to the Genius 3D Mammography  Exam™, which offers better detection of breast cancer, especially  in women with dense breast tissue.
In the U.S., Black women  are 40% more likely to die from breast cancer than white women,   a disparity with multiple causes including lack of access to  regular screenings.
Project Health Equality was launched in partnership with three  critical organizations –the Black Women’s Health Imperative  (BWHI), National Alliance for Hispanic Health, and RAD-AID (see  sidebar for more information).
“Through this partnership, we’re bringing screening,  mammography, diagnostic follow-up and treatment to  women who don’t have health insurance or money, so we  can make sure that all women have access to early detection  and treatment if they need it, the way that all women should,”  said Linda Goler Blount, CEO of the Black Women’s Health  Imperative.
“I think it is very important in any healthcare setting  to have a navigator to appropriately schedule the  patients for the services they need,” said Dr. Nisha  Dharamdasani, a family physician at Jackson Park  Hospital in Chicago.
“The navigator can be a bridge  between the patient and physicians or staff.” Black Women’s Health Imperative (BWHI) is the only national  organization devoted solely to advancing the health and wellness of  America’s 22 million Black women and girls and has been a partner to  Hologic since 1998.
BWHI is a crucial partner in addressing racial and  systemic barriers to care for Black women and reaching them in a way  that is relevant and impactful.
In October 2020, BWHI and Hologic  launched the P.O.W.E.R of Sure campaign – a multiyear commitment  to decreasing breast cancer screening disparities for Black women.
The campaign features Mary J.
Blige and provides a wealth of  resources for Black women about mammography.
National Alliance for Hispanic Health and its supporting organization,  the Health America Foundation (HAF), constitute a non-profit and  non-partisan advocacy organization dedicated to improving the  health and well-being of Hispanics.
It has been a trusted partner of  Hologic since 2014 and is providing critical insights into Hispanic  women/Latinas so Project Health Equality programs can effectively  address barriers to health care that Hispanics regularly experience.
HAF launched Mi Hermana— Latina Health Champions to provide  training and support so women can better manage and advocate for  their own health.
RAD-AID is an international non-profit organization working to  increase and improve radiology in low-resource and medically  underserved regions of the world.
RAD-AID has been a partner with  Hologic in a variety of efforts going back to 2017.
With support from  Project Health Equality, RAD-AID identifies needy communities  and implements strategies for screening and diagnostic services to  ensure effective pathways for medically disenfranchised women to  receive treatment.
The Company’s grants to RAD-AID will support  innovative care, radiology, public education, nursing and patient  navigation at sites selected by RAD-AID to provide critical screening,  diagnostic breast imaging and treatment for women who may  otherwise go without.
Partners Critical for Success During the summer and fall of 2021, Hologic and our partners  successfully launched three additional care sites in Seattle,  Denver and Chicago.
Together, these sites have been  screening women for breast and cervical cancer as well as  providing guidance and follow-up treatments.
Most of the  women had not scheduled a visit in recent years.
They were  contacted and encouraged to make appointments or attend  a scheduled care day.
Other women learned about the  opportunity for treatment through local media stories, which  Hologic helped drive through Breast Cancer Awareness  Month outreach.
Project Health Equality provided funding  that allowed some care sites to hire patient navigators, which  physicians find helpful to providing good care.CEO Letter   Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women  Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 23  Uterine Fibroids –  Getting Loud The virtual roundtable “Unmuting Fibroids: Getting Loud for  Equal Care” brought together healthcare practitioners, patient  advocates, policy experts and figures from the entertainment  and media community to discuss uterine fibroids –a topic long  overlooked and a health issue that disproportionately affects  Black women.
Black women experience uterine fibroids up to  three times more frequently than other groups.
These fibroids can  cause excessive bleeding, which is not only an inconvenience  and embarrassment, but can also have serious health effects  including anemia, fertility issues and childbirth complications.
During the event, which was moderated by Tiffany Cross, host  of MSNBC’s The Cross Connection, panelists shared personal  stories of their experiences with fibroids, medical information  pertaining to the condition and racial disparities in care, and  potential legislation pending in Congress.
Critical actions identified by the roundtable participants include: • Designating periods as a vital health sign.
The medical  community must highlight what a healthy menstrual cycle is,  and why it is important to discuss a patient’s period to identify  other health conditions such as uterine fibroids.
• Educating healthcare providers about fibroids and the  Black woman’s experience to increase culturally competent  care.
Panelists agreed that better education on uterine  fibroids and how they manifest in Black women needs to be  prioritized in medical school and made a part of continuing  medical education.
• Supporting legislation to enable funding for research,  education and awareness.
The Stephanie Tubbs Jones  Uterine Fibroid Research and Education Act of 2021 (S.
2444  / H.R. 2007), which was introduced to both the House and  Senate, would provide greater visibility and financial support  for uterine fibroid research and awareness.
Project Health Equality aims to address health disparities across the entire spectrum, from basic research on medical conditions to patient and physician awareness and, significantly, to increasing access to quality healthcare.High-Profile Advocates Patient and provider awareness and education also play a  key role in Project Health Equality.
Hologic engaged celebrity  spokespeople to lead awareness campaigns in specific areas of  care — musician Mary J.
Blige for breast health and singer Ciara  for cervical health.
For the P.O.W.E.R. of Sure campaign, Mary J.
Blige emphasized  the importance of annual mammograms and led a flurry of  media activity resulting in appearances and coverage in outlets  including CBS This Morning, as well as many local outlets.
Blige  also joined Hologic employees to ring the Nasdaq opening bell to  kick off Breast Cancer Awareness Month, and afterward served  as a panelist at the Hologic-sponsored “Screening the System:  A Dialogue on Bias and Breast Health” media event.
Ciara led the Cerving Confidence campaign for cervical health,  kicking off with an appearance on CBS This Morning, where she  served facts about the importance of women seeking control of  their own health, asking their doctors about screening for cervical  cancer, and encouraging one another to stand up for their own  health.
In September, Ciara appeared on The Today Show, and  also hosted a virtual summit along with well-known gynecologist  Dr. Jessica Shepherd.
“As we spoke to physicians and patients  at the various treatment sites, the theme  of access arose repeatedly,” said Oberton.
“Issues of transportation, childcare,  time off – these are all huge factors for  all women but especially those with  fewer resources.
That is why we are fully  committed to expanding Project Health  Equality so that we can bring as many  of these women as possible the highest  standard of preventive care.”  CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 25  Unique  CultureUnique Culture World-Class Engagement  Hologic Costa Rica: Putting Employees First Spotlight on Leadership and Information Security  CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 27  Promoting diversity of talent and thought  —  these fundamentals drive our culture of  innovation and growth.We make our life-saving impact possible by: Unleashing the unique talents of each  employee — we emphasize amplifying  strengths rather than mitigating  weaknesses.Underscoring the importance of a  great manager for every employee  —  a strong coach is essential for  world-class performance.A culture of exceptional engagement propels our   diverse, uniquely talented workforce to bring  Hologic’s purpose, passion and promise to life.
Below are some key benchmarks from our 2021  Employee Engagement Survey, conducted by   Gallup with its more than six decades of research-   backed insights gathered from thousands   of companies worldwide.
Hologic’s teams have stayed resolute despite the pressures of  the COVID-19 pandemic, as reflected in our continued standing in  the top 5 percent of companies that use Gallup’s Q12 survey.Around the world, the diversity of Hologic brings to life: They have remained committed to top performance amid distinct  challenges brought about by the pandemic.
To address these challenges, Hologic has expanded our already  comprehensive employee support resources to focus on two  critical aspects of well-being: mental health and caregiving.
For example, our U.S. employees now have access to Lyra, a free  mental health program that features therapists, life coaches and  a digital library of related resources.
We also provide these team  members with complimentary premium membership to Care.com,  which offers care-giving services for children, seniors and pets.
36%63% 64%73%83%96% 96%Employee Engagement: Hologic Rises to Top 5 Percent Proportion of Engaged Employees Actively Disengaged Not Engaged Engaged Marissa Villafane (center) and Kristin Stanton (right) are part of Hologic’s Global Services team of field engineers, technical support specialists   and service operations experts.We enable healthier lives everywhere, every day.
Become global champions for women’s health.
The Science of Sure®.
2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021World-Class EngagementCEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 29  Creating an environment that fosters diversity of backgrounds and  hones unique talents begins with the recruitment process and  continues through ongoing development.
Here are two examples  of how Hologic helps our employees grow by maximizing their  talents: College Relations Program The objectives are: • To recruit innovative minds and find the future leaders  of Hologic.
• To share Hologic’s purpose, passion and promise with  upcoming generations of professionals.
• To drive higher performance for Hologic overall by introducing  aspiring talents who bring with them fresh perspectives and  skills that can enrich our workforce.
Hologic offers these students meaningful professional  development in the form of skills training, product education,  leadership presentations and, most importantly, the chance  to work on projects that have lasting business impact.
Participants in the college relations program have, among other  accomplishments, developed business dashboards, patented  new technologies, and designed marketing assets that continue  to be used at Hologic.
Hologic has hired many of our interns into  full-time roles.
Finance Rotation Program The objective is to identify and develop future top talent in finance.
Hologic’s finance rotation program, launched in 2019, is a  two-year commitment for recent college graduates with rotations  in our Corporate Finance department, typically across our FP&A,  Accounting and Treasury teams.
At the end of the two years,   we offer outstanding associates a full-time position.
In addition   to on-the-job learning, these associates also receive targeted  skills training and one-to-one mentorship with designated   Hologic leaders.
We want all Hologic employees to receive maximum support from  their managers.
This begins with who we place into management  positions and continues with how we support their growth as  coaches.
Our managers are guided to have ongoing performance  and development conversations with their team members.
They  use data from the Q12 Employee Engagement Survey to lead  action planning sessions and identify goals for improving their  team’s engagement.
Hologic also believes the better our employees understand and  use their unique talents, the greater their impact.
We offer our  entire global staff the opportunity to learn more about their talents  through the Clifton Strengths assessment, strengths discovery  courses, and an online library of resources.
At the individual, team,  departmental and divisional levels, our employees are supported  in developing goals that leverage and sharpen their talents.This record-high staff engagement has fueled the Hologic team’s  response to two pandemics since early 2020: the COVID-19 pan - demic and the growing caseload of illness and mortality caused  by increased rates of cancer, infections, delayed surgeries, and  other missed treatments as people postpone preventive care  because of COVID concerns.
Since March 2020, Hologic has shipped more than 150 million  SARS-CoV-2 virus tests worldwide, making us a leader in helping  communities and countries better manage the impact of the  virus.
We have also committed to multi-year, multi-million-dollar  initiatives to elevate the status of women’s health and work to  reduce disparities in breast, cervical and gynecologic healthcare.
At Hologic, we know that higher engagement leads to better  performance.
Our employees told Gallup that they connected  with Hologic’s purpose more in 2021 than in any previous year  that we’ve participated in the survey.
Connection to Company PurposeSteve MacMillan meets with some of Hologic’s interns in San Diego, California during a presentation in summer 2021.
43%53% 54% 55%60%72%76% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 202129  Our college relations program began in 2016 with  a summer intern class of 37 students.
Today the  program brings in nearly 200 students each year,  chosen from more than 10,000 applicants, to fill  summer, year-round or co-op positions across the  United States and in Costa Rica.CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 31  Employee Engagement in Costa Rica Over the years, Hologic Costa Rica’s leaders would roll out a new  technology, tool or process-improvement system, only to become  flummoxed by low participation rates due to workers’ skepticism,  perception of these programs as top-down directives, or confu - sion regarding what appeared to be short-lived campaigns.
Learning from these experiences, leadership has emphasized  long-term commitment to an employee-centered culture  that empowers team members of all ranks.
The results of this  commitment include: • A padrino (godfather) and padrina (godmother) mentoring pro - gram that welcomes and supports new team members from  day one.
Mentors specially selected for their high engagement  and company knowledge connect with incoming employees,  providing assistance for 30 to 90 days.
These mentors  introduce new colleagues to other coworkers, guide them to  appropriate resources, and answer questions big and small.
• A development program that enables Hologic Costa Rica to fill  more than 75 percent of its positions internally.
For example,  more than 90 percent of the team’s dozens of interns each  year are hired permanently, and in the average year, almost  20 percent of team members receive tuition reimbursement to  pursue further education.
• Daily touch-base meetings where managers encourage their  team members to share ideas on how to boost operations.
• Employees make suggestions and at least two suggestions  per employee are implemented each year.
Many of those con - cepts have helped Hologic Costa Rica reduce its expenses.
• A well-being program that features onsite appointments with  a doctor, psychologist, physiotherapist and nutritionist.
Three  health fairs each year offer, among other benefits, free or  low-cost vision and cancer screenings.
• A free meal or snack each day at work for most employees,  along with an onsite grocery store that offers food staples  at subsidized prices and a free bag of groceries for each  employee’s family during the year-end holiday season.
• An onsite nursery for parents who need emergency childcare  services.
• Annual distribution of free backpacks and other school sup - plies for more than 850 students who are children of Hologic  Costa Rica workers.
• A STEM education program for employees’ children that has  trained more than 300 students in the past five years.
Caravaca and his team aim to keep raising staff engagement –  and thereby staff performance.
What does it take to establish a high-caliber team  that achieves milestone after milestone?
Hologic  Costa Rica has built such a team through daring am - bition, a long-term roadmap for transformation and,  most of all, an unwavering dedication to employees.
The strategy has produced a string of significant  accomplishments including: • Staff engagement scores, as measured in the annual Gallup  Q12 survey, that consistently place in Hologic’s top tier.
• A workforce that has expanded to 1,000 employees as  it increasingly earns opportunities to manufacture more  products and handle financial services for Hologic in the  Western Hemisphere.
• A growing list of sustainability projects that help the environ - ment and reduce energy costs.
These successes have garnered recognition from  key organizations.Over the years, Hologic Costa Rica has received accolades for  solar-panel installations, water-saving projects and energy-reduc - ing initiatives from the National Manufacturing Association, the  world’s premier leadership group for the manufacturing industry.
In 2019, Hologic Costa Rica became the world’s first gynecologic  business to gain certification from the FDA Medical Device  Discovery Appraisal Pilot Program.
This status boosts efficiency  – and thus saves money – for the team because the FDA grants  faster approvals for various product and operational changes.
That same year, the Shingo Institute bestowed its Silver Medallion  to Hologic Costa Rica.
Few companies around the globe attain  this distinction from the institute, whose renowned Shingo Model  supports major businesses in maximizing performance and  staff morale.
Then in 2021, Hologic Costa Rica won the “Leading Manufacturer  of the Year” award for small to mid-sized companies from the  National Manufacturing Association.“Our culture is reflected in  our results.
It’s an inherent  part of the way we work,  one that our employees  and leaders adhere to  because they believe in it,”  said Nilo Caravaca, Vice  President of Operations  for Hologic Costa Rica  and Latin America.
“We have a strategic plan with  realistic goals that has allowed us  to build a culture that works from  the understanding and conviction  of our people,” Caravaca said.
“With  our people’s innovation, discipline,  engagement and passion, we will  achieve our vision.”Members of the Hologic Costa Rica leadership team.
About 1,000 employ - ees contribute to  Hologic Costa Rica’s  growing success.CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 33  Although Marvin Larry, Hologic’s Chief Information Security Officer  (CISO), spends his days continuously assessing risk to systems,  software and data, he believes everything starts with people.
Larry has spent his career leading security teams, and to him,  leadership starts with those at the top who embody a service  mindset.
“It is critical for leaders to adopt a selfless orientation and  realize that it is not about me, but we,” he said.
“By trusting the  mission and people around you, a leader should act as a compass,  showing people the way and helping them play to their strengths.”  Hologic’s culture attracted Larry to the company in October  of 2020.
“Who can’t get behind Hologic’s mission?” he said.
“Everyone has women in their lives who need accurate diagnoses,  and everyone at Hologic is part of that mission: To enable healthier  lives, as a champion for women’s health, with the very best  technology.” For Hologic to execute on its mission, information security is  essential.
Highlighting the importance of cybersecurity, the Audit  and Finance Committee of the Board regularly assesses this  risk as part of their oversight responsibilities.
As the world has  become more connected and digital, this creates greater risk for  all organizations.
Larry and his team understand this and play a  vital role in safeguarding Hologic’s assets; allowing the business to  deliver on its commitments to customers and patients.
“By designing our products and systems to be resilient, we can  ensure seamless business continuity,” said Larry.
Furthermore,  as COVID-19 has shown, security needs to continue to evolve as  the threat landscape changes.
To that end, Larry and his team  have rolled out multiple improvements during the pandemic, such  as enhanced monitoring, strengthening response capabilities,  and continuously reminding employees to remain vigilant  against opportunistic threat actors.
All of this has been critical  to ensure the security of every component of Hologic’s vast  technology infrastructure.
A Spotlight on Leadership and  Information Security “Hologic’s people are our greatest asset,” said  Larry.
“It is our employees who not only deliver  incredible results for our customers, but they are  also exceptionally vigilant about making sure our  products and internal operations are protected.”“Everyone has women in their lives  who need accurate diagnoses, and  everyone at Hologic is part of that  mission: To enable healthier lives, as  a champion for women’s health, with  the very best technology.”   — Marvi n Larry, Vice President, Chief Information  Security OfficerMarvin Larry, Vice President, Chief Information  Security Officer Top right: Marvin Larry and some members of Hologic’s Information  Security team.
Bottom right: Some of Hologic’s summer 2021 interns  discuss their progress during a lunch in Marlborough, Massachusetts.Larry sees his team’s role as galva - nizing people to protect Hologic’s  purpose, passion and promise.
“We  strive to provide the very best pro - tection to our employees, customers  and patients,” he said.
“Security is  about helping our people keep Hologic  safe, so our teams can always deliver  market-leading products globally to  improve women’s health.” CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 35  Global  CitizenshipGlobal Citizenship  Making an Impact  Global Access Initiative Philanthropy Product Donations Minority-Owned Banking The Environment CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 37  Making an Impact Hologic’s global presence Hologic increasingly fulfills our purpose:  to enable healthier lives everywhere,  every day.
We now provide our innovative  medical technologies in more than 100  countries and territories – including those  listed to the right – and look forward to  further expansion of our impact worldwide.Hologic’s Continued   Leadership Against COVID-Since March 2020, Hologic has shipped more than 150 million  SARS-CoV-2 tests worldwide, underscoring the leading role  that the organization has played in combatting COVID-19.
By  the end of the 2021 fiscal year, the Aptima® and Panther Fusion®  COVID-19 assays had been utilized in more than 50 countries.
“Bringing urgently needed COVID-19 tests to 50 markets in  such a short time required mass mobilization of cross- functional teams and support systems across the globe,”   said Andrew Pieprzyk, Vice President of Diagnostics   Strategic Development, International.
“I was very impressed  with the dedication the Regulatory Affairs teams showed  in working with our R&D, Operations, Logistics, Marketing  and Scientific teams across the globe.
The teams’ dedication  enabled Hologic to be a key partner in the world’s pandemic  response and allowed our tests to reach millions of patients  who needed fast and reliable test results to make informed  healthcare decisions.” Additional COVID-19 accomplishments in 2021 included: November – Hologic announced that all three of its  COVID-19 tests detect the Omicron variant.
October  – Hologic launched the Aptima® SARS-CoV-2/ Flu assay for simultaneous detection of COVID, influenza A  and influenza B.
July – Hologic obtained CE-mark for the Aptima® SARS- CoV-2 assay for use with saliva samples.
“Being part of an organization that has solutions and innova - tive technology to save lives globally is very rewarding.
It  gives meaning to my purpose of saving lives, and every day  I feel proud to be changing the trajectory of diagnostics and  women’s health — powered by the purpose, passion and  promise of the One Hologic team in Africa.” — Dikeledi Khoza, Applications Support Lead, South Africa “Since my first day at Hologic, I know  that I’m a part of this mission: enabling  healthier lives everywhere, every day.
I know that I’m responsible for making  a difference for women in our Latin  American region.” — Renata Daglio, Marketing Specialist, Brazil Algeria Andorra Argentina Aruba Australia Austria Azores Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium Bermuda Bolivia Botswana Brazil Bulgaria Canada Canary Islands Cayman IslandsChile China Colombia Corsica Costa Rica Croatia Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt Estland Falkland Islands Finland France Germany GreeceGuadeloupe Guatemala Guyana Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jordan Kenya Kuwait La Reunion Lebanon Lesotho LuxembourgMadagascar Malaysia Malta Martinique Mexico Monaco Morocco Mozambique Namibia Netherlands New Zealand Nigeria Norway Oman Panama Peru Philippines Poland PortugalPuerto Rico Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Lucia San Marino Senegal Serbia Singapore Slovakia Slovenia South Africa South Korea Spain Swaziland Sweden Switzerland TahitiTaiwan Tanzania Thailand Turkey Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States U.S. Virgin Islands Venezuela Vietnam Zambia ZimbabweWe estimate that our products benefited approximately 347 million people across  the globe in our fiscal 2021.
“My main source of motivation is people, and the impact we all have on  each other’s lives.
Within Hologic, I have the privilege to help, support  or empower fantastic colleagues, to stand for life-changing products,  but also to have enough time to care for my (young and noisy) family.
I  definitely feel privileged to work at Hologic!” — Pauline Seguy, Director of Commercial Development and Insights, France “I know that each and every day, I contribute to  saving women’s lives! Not only does my work  help reduce mortality, but it also affects the  quality of life for the women whom I care about  and their families.
What better mission in life  could one have?” — Kathleen Lott, Women’s Health Specialist, United States “When I realize that more and more patients can get better  treatment and benefit from advanced technology, faster recov - ery and less pain, which is what our NovaSure and MyoSure  products can provide, I am proud of my company and find my  job very meaningful.” — Bencong Shi, Surgical Key Account Manager, China CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 39  Global Access Initiative: Expanding Access to   Best-in-Class Diagnostic Tests in Emerging Markets  FPO The GAI has delivered four million life-saving tests to men, women  and children across 13 countries since the initiative began, and  Hologic has also made an additional 700,000 tests available for  COVID.
Hologic continues to explore opportunities to expand to  other countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean to  further our commitment to improving people’s lives everywhere.
* 90% of girls fully vaccinated with HPV vaccine by age 15: 70% of women screened with a  high-performance test by 35 years of age and again by 45; 90% of women identified with  cervical disease receive treatment (90% of women with precancer treated, and 90% of women  with invasive cancer managed).In its third year, the Hologic Global  Access Initiative (GAI) demonstrated  continued impact in expanding  access to critical diagnostic testing  and strengthening integration of  healthcare services in emerging  markets, despite the challenges of the  COVID-19 pandemic.
The GAI launched at the 2018 International AIDS Conference with  a breakthrough all-inclusive pricing structure with no upfront cost  or capital expenditure.
Qualified products include molecular as - says for HIV, hepatitis B and C, and human papillomavirus (HPV),  as well as the ThinPrep® Pap test for cervical cancer screening.
The value of the GAI model was soon recognized by global  donors and the initiative sparked a paradigm shift in the market,  leading to widespread adoption of all-inclusive pricing among  key donors such as the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS  Relief (PEPFAR) and The Global Fund.
The market realized a price  reduction in viral load testing, generating savings that could be  reinvested into additional testing and related programs.
As the GAI marks its third year, Hologic continues to grow its  footprint of Panther® molecular diagnostic testing systems, laying  the groundwork for scalable solutions and introduction of the  Panther® Plus in Africa.
The Panther® Plus is an in-lab upgrade  adding further capacity, walkaway time, and throughput without  replacing existing equipment or infrastructure.
Three Panther®  Plus systems have been installed through the GAI, allowing  countries to quickly meet the growing demands of SARS-CoV-2  testing while ensuring continuity of testing for people affected by  other viral infections.
Hologic extended its reach to populations living in remote  areas with approval of dried blood spot (DBS) samples using the  Aptima® HIV-1 Quant Dx assay.
The assay was awarded CE mark  and World Health Organization (WHO) prequalification for testing  DBS samples, which are more stable and easily transportable  compared to liquid whole blood or plasma samples.
In 2021, the  U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recom - mended DBS sampling for viral load monitoring and provided  specific guidance to support lab adoption, facilitating expanded  use of the Aptima® HIV-1 Quant Dx assay in African countries  where DBS is the primary sample type.
WHO also has adopted a global strategy for cervical cancer elim - ination.
One of the key pillars in reaching the ambitious 90-70-90  targets* is screening women with a high-performance test.
As a  global champion of women’s health, Hologic recently supported  the Ministry of Health in Zambia to launch trainings to scale up  cervical cancer screening.
One hundred and forty clinical health - care providers and laboratory staff representing nine provinces  participated and will be on the frontlines in expanding availability  of vital screening for women.
All nine Panther® systems in these  provinces are expected to run the Aptima® HPV assay as the  country expands its cervical cancer prevention program.
“At Hologic, we recognize that improved access  to diagnostics requires more than just a product  and as such, we strive to serve beyond our role  as a supplier, but rather as a collaborative partner  with a shared responsibility in contributing to  equitable and sustainable health systems,” said  Jesse Wambugu, Hologic’s Director for the Global  Access Initiative, Africa.
“The success of the GAI  reflects the collective efforts of many partners  who have dedicated their skills and expertise to  saving and improving lives.” Training lab staff on HPV testing in partnership with the Ministry of Health Zambia.Above: A training group in Kabwe, Zambia — one of multiple courses that took place in September 2021 and included approximately 140 healthcare  workers and lab technologists.
Below: CIDRZ clinical laboratory supports COVID-19 testing in Zambia using the Panther system.CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 41  At Hologic, supporting the communities where our employees  live and work is central to our mission.
We are proud of the impact  our philanthropy is making to enable healthier lives everywhere,  every day.
To maximize our impact in ways that align with our  business, we concentrate our giving efforts locally, and in three  areas: • Women’s health, and other healthcare fields in which   we operate.
• Science, technology, engineering and math education  (STEM), especially for underprivileged students.
• Social and racial equality, especially in healthcare.
Hologic’s resilient response to the COVID-19 pandemic has  showcased how our products benefit the world.
At the same  time, the incredible business and financial success derived from  developing and manufacturing molecular tests for COVID-19 has  enabled us to significantly expand our philanthropic activities  over the last two years.
For example, in 2021 we contributed $20 million to our corporate  charitable fund, the largest donations we have ever made to our  fund.
Over the next several years, we intend to use this money  to support causes and issues that are close to Hologic’s mission,  and near to many of our employees’ hearts.
This is in addition to our funding of Project Health Equality, most of which occurred  in 2020 and more information about which can be found on  page 20 of this report.Hologic Expands Philanthropic Activities On Giving Tuesday (November 30), Hologic announced an  expansion of our philanthropic activities, pledging to donate $5  million from our charitable fund over the next year.
These donations  will be distributed as follows: • $1 million around Marlborough, Massachusetts, where Hologic  is headquartered.
• $1 million around San Diego, California, our largest facility.
• $1 million near our other major U.S. sites.
• $1 million near our international sites.
• $1 million to support our internal “Partners in Giving” program.
This $5 million commitment comes on top of Hologic’s other  philanthropic efforts.
Our corporate philanthropy committee, which  includes employees from various divisions and sites, has provided  hundreds of grants over the last several years.
These grants  generally range from $2,500 to $50,000 each and are given to  non-profit organizations near our business locations that support  women’s health, STEM education, and social and racial equality.
Starting in calendar 2022, we plan to further expand our support  for these local non-profit groups, as well as many others of our em - ployees’ choosing, by providing our U.S. colleagues an additional  paid day off to engage in community service.
We also have continued to strengthen our scholarship funds.
The Hologic Scholarship Fund awards scholarships of $2,500  to $5,000 for employees’ children and grandchildren.
We also  support minority students near our largest U.S. facilities by  providing scholarship funding to three non-profit organizations that  help students from underserved communities become the first in  their family to attend college.
Our actions highlight our belief that  education is the key to both economic advancement and social  equality.
Finally, in response to employee requests, in 2020 we established  “Partners in Giving,” a limited “matching program” to supplement  the donations – and the volunteer time – that many of our  employees give to non-profit organizations of their choice.
In 2021  we expanded this program by opening a second donation period,  and by increasing the amount that Hologic adds to each employee  donation.
To date this program has donated $366,832 to causes  that are near and dear to our employees.Philanthropy All these efforts support important, long-term business goals:   • Helping build a scientifically literate workforce for the future.
Ensuring that minorities and financially underprivileged  women have access to the best technology for the early  detection of disease.
• Helping students with financial need chart a new path for   their lives.
• Magnifying the impact that our employees’ personal donations  have in their communities.
Product Donations Hologic further supports women’s health by donating our breast  and skeletal health equipment to hospitals and organizations in  need.
In fiscal 2021, we donated 188 pieces of equipment related  to mammography screening, bone density, breast surgery and  ultrasound.
This was roughly triple the number of units that we  donated in fiscal 2020.
Some examples included:  • Donating Clarius HD ultrasound units with Viera software to  the Grenada General Hospital Women’s Health Care Initiative  to help improve diagnosis in a country where breast cancer is  the leading cause of cancer-related deaths in women.
• Supporting investigator-initiated trials to compare treatment  options or investigate new clinical uses.
• Our long-standing support for Radiologists Without Borders,  an organization whose mission is to bring life-saving diagnos - tic solutions to medically underserved populations worldwide.
Minority-Owned Banking Another example of Hologic supporting the communities in which  we operate is the relationship we have built with OneUnited  Bank, a Massachusetts-based institution that provides financial  services to support economic development in urban communities.
Hologic has deposited $2 million with OneUnited to support  low- to moderate- income communities.
OneUnited is a leader in  providing innovative products and services that increase access to  critically needed financial services for underserved communities.
In the past two years, the bank has financed over $100 million in  loans, and more than 70% of OneUnited’s loans go toward low- to  moderate-income and minority communities.
On Giving Tuesday (November 30),  Hologic announced an expansion of   its philanthropic activities, pledging   to donate $5 million in the next year   to further our purpose of enabling  healthier lives everywhere, every day.
Grants, Charities and Donations in MillionsMembers of Hologic’s Human Resources team gather in Marlborough, Massachusetts to, among other topics, identify ways to further employee involvement   in their communities.
Chart above represents estimated funds disbursed to charitable third- party organizations, not contributions to our corporate charitable fund.
*Fiscal 2020 grants include the initial contribution for Project  Health Equality.Partners in Giving Employee Contributio n Hologic Matc h$130,2020 20212017$2018 2019 2020 2021*$3 $3$$15CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 43  2019 2020 Electricity (MwH) 55,126 53,592 51,Solid Waste1 (MT) 1,723 1,357 2,Regulated Waste2 (MT) 245 248 Water (Cubic Meters) 140,623 137,410 157,Above table uses estimates where necessary.Our Goals in Action Hologic Costa Rica Wins Ecologic Blue Flag Award Costa Rica’s Ecologic Blue Flag Program (Bandera Azul Ecológica)  is an initiative developed by the Costa Rican Government to  help protect the environment by recognizing achievements in  sustainability.
The program began in 1996 as an incentive for  coastal communities to keep their beaches clean and has grown  to encompass a wide variety of destinations and categories.
In the  climate change category, Hologic Costa Rica scored a perfect 100  points in most assessment criteria, including waste management  and reduction of water usage.
Controlling Peak Energy Usage in Costa Rica   The industrial sector in Costa Rica operates on an electric fare  model, in which there are three different recurring time periods  each day.
These time periods – night, valley, and peak – have a  different cost for using electricity.
In order to minimize our reliance on the country’s electricity  grid, Hologic’s Costa Rica team has implemented the following  strategies to control our peak usage:   • Avoid using high consumption equipment during peak periods.
• Utilize automatic equipment, which starts according to a specific  sequence.
This avoids all equipment starting up at the same  time after a power outage.
• Employ a photovoltaic system to inject power during each day’s  first peak period.Hologic aims to make business decisions that have a positive  impact on the environment and we manage our environmental  health and safety (EH&S) concerns as an integral part of our  business.
Given that philosophy, we are pleased to announce  several new long-term environmental targets:   Environmental Goals (for Operational Sites) • Achieve 15% reduction in non-hazardous/non-recyclable  waste by 2025* • Convert to 50% renewable electricity by 2030, 75%   renewable electricity by • Achieve 40% reliance on self-generated renewable   energy on owned sites by • Achieve a 30% reduction of Scope 1 & 2 emissions   by 2030* Above goals are as a percentage of revenue.
To achieve our new environmental goals, we will focus on  promoting energy-efficient practices, adapting new technology to  be as environmentally friendly as possible, minimizing the amount  of hazardous waste generated, and ensuring that regulated waste  is disposed of in a safe and lawful manner.Furthermore, although we achieved our previous environmental  target – set in 2016, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions** by 10%  by 2021, early in 2019 – we are pleased to report yet another year  of improvement against this metric, as highlighted by our emissions  summary chart.
In addition, for the first time, we are disclosing data pertaining  to electricity, waste, and water consumption.
The below table is  based on data available and quantifiable at this time.
Environmental Indicators  The Environment *Reduction compared to 2020.
**As a percentage of revenue.
1.
Solid waste is defined as the quantity of waste disposed as landfill, recycled, composted, and other (ex.
reclaimed for energy).
2.
Regulated waste is defined as the quantity of waste disposed as hazardous waste, biohazardous or medical waste, universal waste, or radioactive waste.
New, World-Class Breast and Skeletal Health Facility  in Delaware Hologic will invest more than $20 million to create a world-class  breast and skeletal health center in Newark, DE.
This investment  will repurpose and renovate over 100,000 square feet of the facility  and create 225 jobs.
In addition, the facility will be designed with a green approach  to design, construction and operations.
Specifically, the design  approach of the facility will include: • Renewable energy, geothermal and/or solar • Natural passive ventilation • Recycled materials and finishes • Digital and automated smart controls • Electric vehicle considerations • More usable exterior space for occupants • Expanded waste conservation and management • Expanded recycling program and incentives 6.030,0 25,20,15,10,2013 Metric T on CO2 Metric To n CO2e/MM $ SalesMetric Ton CO2e/MM $ Sales 2015 2016 20172 0192 02112.10.8.4.2.0.2020 201828,448 26,761 26,616 26,816 25,471 24,059 23,287 23,78111.10.69.8 9.8.6.96.4.24,0877.Hologic Newark employees gather for a team engagement event.Hologic’s Emissions Summary 2013-2021CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company   A Champion for Women   Unique Culture   Global Citizenship   Strong Governance 45  Strong  GovernanceStrong Governance Governance and Shareholder Engagement 46  Board Transformation and Structure Compensation Philosophy and Structure Governance Policies and Procedures Information Security Governance 54  Clinical Trials 56  Quality Management System Content Workplace Health and Safety Supply Chain Management Employee Workforce Composition SASB Table CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  47  Governance and  Shareholder Engagement Our Board believes that good governance not only requires  an effective set of specific practices, but also a culture of  responsibility and accountability throughout the organization.
Governance at Hologic is intended to achieve both.
Good governance ultimately depends on the quality of an   organization’s leadership, and our Board is committed to  recruiting and retaining directors and officers with proven  leadership ability and personal integrity.
The Board is engaged with management, with each other,  and with the Company’s shareholders.
Beginning in 2015, we  implemented a year-round approach to shareholder engagement.
In addition to discussions just before our Annual Meeting, we  initiate discussions during a quieter period several months later,  reaching out to a number of our largest investors to discuss  business highlights, compensation and governance matters— or  whatever else is on their minds.
Directors participate in these  discussions as requested, and are updated on calls in which they  do not participate.
Our Board takes feedback from investors seriously.
Feedback  from investors has helped shape our compensation programs,  as well as our governance structures.
In fact, discussions with  several of our largest investors helped shape our approach to  sustainability reporting, including the development of this report.
Board Transformation  and Structure Our Board, which consists of a uniquely strong group of proven  leaders in diverse healthcare companies, has been transformed  through purposeful refreshment over the past six years.
2015  Board had 11 members—including two representatives of the  Icahn Group 2021  Eight members—no activist investor representatives • Four of the directors on the Board in 2015 remain.
• Four new independent directors were elected to the Board  since 2015.
These new directors bring experience and expertise in areas  important to the Company and the Board, including: • Worldwide operations.
• Leadership of global, innovative organizations.
• Financial expertise.
• Healthcare industry experience.
The mix of experience, diversity and fresh perspectives on the  Board serves to strengthen management and the Company.
Given its smaller size, each member of the Board is highly engaged,  contributing and having his or her voice heard, while supporting and  appropriately challenging management.
Our Board has an ongoing commitment to Board refreshment and  to having highly qualified, independent voices in the boardroom— which has resulted in an exceptionally well-balanced group.
Women’s Forum of New York  Hologic is proud to be among the Women’s Forum of New  York’s 2021 Corporate Champion honorees.
This recognition  highlights S&P 500 and Fortune 1000 companies that meet, or  exceed, 35% representation of board seats held by women.
Women on Hologic’s Board For each of the past 11 years, women have comprised over   30% of our Board.
33% Women38% WomenJay Stein co-founded Hologic in 1985 and served as the Company’s  Chairman and Chief Technology Officer over the years.
On page 45  and above, our Board and Global Leadership Team paid tribute to his  innovation legacy during a celebration of his career and retirement  in late 2021.
Left: Sally Crawford, Hologic’s Independent Lead DirectorBusiness   Development/M&A Global Experience Financial Expertise TechnologyChart-line globe-asia dollar-signKey Skills  Healthcare    Industry Experience Executive Leadership Operational Human Capital ManagementHEARTBEAT Hands-Helping CogCEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  49  Roles of the Board Taking an active role in the Company’s strategic direction, the  Board continually educates itself on the Company’s products,  markets, customers, competition and culture.
The Board assesses  risk, evaluates management’s performance, plans for successors  and provides overall guidance and direction to the Company.
Risk Oversight   Our Board is responsible for risk oversight.
A fundamental part  of risk oversight is understanding the risks that we face, the steps  management is taking to manage those risks, and assessing our  appetite for risk.
Risk management systems, including our internal  auditing procedures, internal control over financial reporting, and  corporate compliance programs, are designed in part to inform  management about our material risks.
Our Board receives regular reports from management on  matters relating to strategic and operational initiatives, financial  performance and legal developments, including the related  enterprise-risk exposures.
The involvement of the Board in the  oversight of our strategic planning process is a key part of its  assessment of the risks inherent in our corporate strategy.
Each year, the Board also reviews an enterprise risk management  report compiled by business leaders who have assessed risks  throughout the business over a three-year horizon, focusing on  financial risk, legal/compliance risk and operational/strategic risk.
The report details the Company’s top 10 risks, as well as mitigating  actions and plans relating to those risks.
Underscoring the Board’s  and management’s focus on enterprise risk are the individual  performance objectives of the executive leadership team, which are again aligned with the Company’s top enterprise risks, as  identified in the enterprise risk management report.
While the Board has overall responsibility for risk oversight, each of  the three standing committees of the Board regularly assesses risk  in connection with executing their responsibilities.
• The Audit and Finance Committee focuses on cybersecurity  risk, as well as financial risk, including internal controls (see  related story on page 32).
The Committee receives regular  reports on cybersecurity, as well as an annual risk assessment  report from the Company’s internal auditors.
• The Compensation Committee oversees risk relating to com - pensation.
Its independent compensation consultant conducts  a risk assessment of our executive compensation programs,  and members of our internal legal, human resources and sales  operations departments evaluate our other compensation  programs to assess risk.
These results are presented to the  Compensation Committee annually.
• The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees all of  our governance processes and attendant risks.
ESG Oversight   The Board recognizes the connection between ESG topics and  risk mitigation, financial performance and shareholder return .
The Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee  oversees the Company’s reporting on ESG.
Furthermore, a steering  committee of senior members of management has been tasked with  monitoring and reporting on key ESG topics, and drafting an annual  sustainability report.
■ Newer (<5 yrs.)    ■ Medium-tenured (6-10 yrs.)   ■ Experienced (>10 yrs.)Board Tenure Diversity 7 years average tenure■ 50s   ■  60s   ■  70s■ Independent    ■ Not IndependentOver 87% of our Board   is IndependentBoard Independence Board Age Diversity Median age is ■ Female ■ Born outside of U.S.   ■ Underrepresented minorityBoard Diversity Gender, geographic and demo - graphic background diversityBoard Composition The Board is composed of a majority of independent directors, and each of the three Board committees (Audit and Finance, Compensation,  and Nominating and Corporate Governance) is composed entirely of independent directors.
The current membership of our Board and  each committee is listed below.
Director and Principal Occupation Age Since Independent Current Committee Membership Stephen P.
MacMillan   Chairman, President and Chief  Executive Officer, Hologic, Inc.58 2013 • N/A Sally W.
Crawford   Former Chief Operating Officer,  Healthsource, Inc.68 2007 ✓ • Lead Independent Director  • Compensation  • Nominating and Corporate  Governance (CHAIR) Charles J.
Dockendorff   Former Chief Financial Officer and  Executive Vice President, Covidien plc67 2017 ✓ • Audit and Finance (CHAIR) Scott T.
Garrett   Senior Operating Partner, Water Street  Healthcare, Partners71 2013 ✓ • Compensation (CHAIR)  • Nominating and Corporate  Governance  Ludwig N.
Hantson Former Chief Executive Officer   Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc.59 2018 ✓ • Compensation • Nominating and Corporate  Governance Namal Nawana   Executive Chairman, Sapphiros51 2018 ✓ • Compensation  • Nominating and Corporate  Governance  Christiana Stamoulis   Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer, Incyte Corporation51 2011 ✓ • Audit and Finance Amy M.
Wendell   Former Senior Vice President, Strategy  & BD&L, Covidien plc61 2016 ✓ • Audit and Finance 31 CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  51  PAY FOR PERFORMANCE We believe that our compensation  programs should motivate  high performance among our  Named Executive Officers  (NEOs) within an entrepreneurial,  incentive-driven culture and that  compensation levels should reflect  the achievement of short- and  long-term performance objectives.COMPETITIVE PAY  We aim to establish overall target  compensation (compensation  received when achieving  expected results) that is  competitive with that being  offered to individuals holding  comparable positions at other  public companies with which we  compete for business and talent.FOCUS ON TOTAL DIRECT  COMPENSATION We seek to offer a total executive  compensation package that best  supports our leadership talent  and business strategies.
We  use a mix of fixed and variable  pay to support these objectives,  and provide benefits and  perquisites, where appropriate.
ROIC The Compensation Committee introduced  ROIC as a performance metric in fiscal  2014 to hold management accountable  for generating greater returns on capital  allocated.
This metric: • Creates an effective balance of  growth and returns.
• Holds management accountable for  the efficient use of capital.
• Links executive compensation to  value creation.ADJUSTED FREE CASH FLOW  In fiscal 2020, the Compensation  Committee added the measure of free  cash flow, which is an important metric   as the Company seeks to continue to  deploy capital efficiently with continued  business development activity and   share repurchases.RELATIVE TSR In addition to being well-received and  supported by our stockholders, use of  relative TSR: • Provides an external performance  measure, which complements the  internal ROIC measure.
• Links executive compensation directly  to stockholder value creation.Compensation Philosophy and Structure Incentivized to Drive Stockholder Value Our Board believes that our directors and officers should hold a meaningful financial stake in the Company to further align their interests  with those of our stockholders.
Each non-employee director is expected to achieve equity ownership in the Company with a value of five  times annual base cash retainer within five years of his or her election to the Board.
Our CEO is expected to achieve equity ownership  in the Company with a value of five times his then current base salary and each of our other executive officers is expected to achieve  equity ownership in the Company with a value of two times his or her then current base salary, within five years of becoming subject to the  guidelines.
All our non-employee directors and all of our executive officers who have been subject to the guidelines for five years have  achieved ownership in excess of them.
Mr. MacMillan owns equity in the Company with a value of over 161 times* his fiscal 2021 base salary, making him one of our 20 largest  stockholders.
Mr. MacMillan purchased approximately 11% of these shares in the open market.
As evidenced by his substantial ownership of  Hologic shares, Mr. MacMillan’s interests are well-aligned with those of our stockholders.Diversity Policy Our approach to diversity is covered in our employee Code of Conduct, and is supported internally through our global Anti-Discrimination  and Anti-Harassment Policy.
Hologic is fundamentally committed to the principle that those we interact with, whether employee, vendor,  partner, or customer, will be treated with respect, dignity and professionalism.
We are an equal opportunity employer.
It is Hologic’s  policy to administer all human resource actions and policies without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,  national origin, ancestry, age, mental and/or physical disability, genetic information, veteran status, any military service or application for  military service, marital status, creed, citizenship status or membership in any other category protected under state, federal or local law.
All  employment decisions and personnel actions, including hiring, promotion, compensation, benefits and termination, are and will continue  to be administered in accordance with, and to further the principle of, equal employment opportunity.
Performance of supervisors and  employees alike will be evaluated on the basis of work-related criteria.
Our global Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy explicitly  prohibits any form of discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment or retaliation.
It also clearly outlines the complaint procedure process.
All employees are required to undertake biannual anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training and to acknowledge and adhere to our  Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy.
Human Rights and Fair Working Conditions Human rights and fair working conditions are covered in our employee Code of Conduct.
Hologic supports fundamental human rights  globally and is committed to a work environment that is free from human trafficking and slavery.
We do not allow child or forced labor by our  Company, nor do we knowingly work with business partners that employ children or forced labor.
We also follow all applicable wage and  hour laws.
For more information, please review Hologic’s International Modern Slavery Policy here .* Only shares of stock issued and outstanding (or vested and deferred under our deferred equity plan) are credited toward the  ownership goals.
No unvested RSUs or PSUs or outstanding stock options (regardless of whether or not vested) are credited toward the  ownership goals.
Honesty.
Being truthful and upfront with  co-workers, customers, communities,  suppliers, distributors and shareholders.
Integrity.
Delivering what Hologic promises  and standing up for what is right.
Respect.
Treating each other with fairness  and dignity and appreciating the unique  abilities and strengths of each individual,  as well as the advantages of diversity.Trust.
Building team spirit and confidence  by communicating openly and honestly.
Citizenship.
Obeying the laws of all the  jurisdictions where the Company does business.
Responsibility.
Taking the initiative to speak up  and report concerns regarding ethical conduct  and seeking reliable guidance in cases of doubt.
Our Compensation Philosophy Our ability to compete effectively depends to a large extent on our success in identifying, recruiting, developing and retaining manage - ment talent.
To this end, the design of our executive compensation program and the decisions made by the Compensation Committee  of the Board are guided by the following principles: Hologic is focused on growth, efficient use of capital, and shareholder value.
Consequently, the Company uses measures of adjusted  revenue, adjusted EPS, ROIC (return on invested capital), free cash flow, and relative TSR (total shareholder return) for incentive  compensation plans.
We believe this compensation structure drives performance, while also ensuring management efforts are  aligned with the interests of our shareholders.
Governance Policies and Procedures Employee Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct, which is publicly available, outlines Hologic’s commitments to integrity and ethical conduct.
It is a resource for  all employees to identify the principles and values that Hologic is founded upon and to understand what is expected of them.
All em - ployees must read and understand the Code of Conduct, as well as our policies and procedures, and strive to uphold the principles of  integrity and ethics in these written standards.
Some of the basic values that form the underpinnings of our Code include:CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  53  Ethics in Sales and Marketing Hologic is dedicated to the improvement of patient care by providing innovative, high quality, cost-effective healthcare technology.
We recognize that adherence to ethical standards and compliance with applicable laws and regulations is critical to achieving these  objectives.
As a developer, manufacturer and supplier of diagnostics and medical devices, Hologic is subject to laws and regulations  designed to protect patients and consumers, improve the quality of healthcare services, and help eliminate fraud and improper influence  on medical judgment.
Our products are closely regulated by government agencies, health ministries and regulatory authorities worldwide.
We prioritize integrity as a fundamental aspect of our sales and marketing practices.
Hologic is committed to conducting its business  ethically and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other  laws that prohibit improper payments to obtain a business advantage.
In addition, as a medical products manufacturer, Hologic has  the added responsibility of ensuring that representations regarding our products are consistent with the approved label.
Our policies  ensure employees communicate clearly and accurately so that customers understand the features and benefits, but also limitations,  of our products.
Customers and patients, as well as our business partners and suppliers worldwide, rely on Hologic for honest and  accurate communication.
Our commitment to ethics is part of everything we do, and we take the following steps to ensure our employees  understand how to achieve business objectives with transparency, honesty and integrity.
• We maintain and promote our Code of Conduct, which sets forth our philosophies regarding ethical business practices and  contains guidance specific to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, ethical promotion, and marketing practices, among many other topics.
• We provide our Code of Conduct in eight languages, so that substantially all our employees can read it in their first language.
• Upon hire and biannually thereafter, employees are required to take a Code of Conduct training course, which provides examples   and hypotheticals on how the concepts can be applied to daily business practices.
This course is also offered in eight languages.
• We require all employees to certify to our Code of Conduct on an annual basis to ensure their continued understanding of its contents.
• We maintain various additional policies that provide further detail on the topics covered in our Code of Conduct.
Several of these are   also supported by online training modules that employees take when they join the Company and on a regular basis thereafter.
• We maintain a process by which all marketing and promotional materials are reviewed by subject-matter experts to ensure that   claims are accurate, supported by reliable data, and consistent with the approved product labeling.
• We provide a compliance hotline that is available internally and externally to employees and third parties whereby they  may report compliance concerns to us.
Reporting can be done anonymously at the discretion of the employee.
Management Oversight We employ a compliance team who has responsibility for monitoring and following up on compliance matters, maintaining and updating  compliance policies and procedures, and reporting their activity to senior management, as well as to the Board of Directors, to ensure  visibility to compliance matters at all levels of the Company.
The Hologic Corporate Quality Manual covers management responsibility,  which includes our commitment to ensure the suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the Quality Management System through intervals  defined in the management review procedure.
These processes ensure compliance of all marketing materials and product claims.
Risk Assessments We perform risk assessments of all processes covered under the Hologic Quality Management System (QMS), and these assessments  are governed by our risk management procedure.
Hologic uses a risk-based approach as per ISO14971 for product risk management.
This  risk-based approach applies control of the processes related to the oversight of marketing materials and product claims.
Our procedures  enhance product safety, product design and design change effectiveness through the identification, estimation, control, verification and  tracking of safety risks and associated safety requirements.
Risk management is a continuous, iterative process throughout the entire life  cycle of a device, requiring regular systematic updating.
Compliance Monitoring and External Audits Hologic conducts internal audits using a risk-based approach at planned intervals to determine whether the QMS, which covers ethical  marketing materials, is functioning as required.
This includes conformance to the planned and documented arrangements, including audit  criteria based on the regulations, directives, standards and internal requirements.
Additionally, announced and unannounced external  audits are conducted by third parties, such as the FDA and Notified Body, in accordance with their individual regulatory requirements.
Reporting of Violations and Incident Investigations/Corrective Actions Our Hologic corporate field action procedure governs the process for managing field actions that applies to all products manufactured  by or for Hologic and is applicable when a Hologic product, including software, has entered commercial distribution and is suspected of  posing a risk to health or violating applicable regulations.
This includes ensuring correct and compliant marketing materials and product  claims.
When nonconformance to any process is detected, appropriate action is taken, and records of actions taken are maintained.
Hologic has documented procedures for issuing advisory notices in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
Hologic’s Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA) Procedure The procedure provides the minimum requirements for initiating, investigating and completing corrective and preventive actions.
This  includes compliance associated with ethical marketing materials.
Hologic takes action to eliminate the cause of nonconformities to  prevent recurrence.
Corrective actions are proportionate to the risks and effects of the nonconformities encountered.
The corrective and  preventive action system is intended to identify actions needed to correct and prevent recurrence of nonconforming product or other  quality problems.
In addition, the corporate procedure for complaint handling provides oversight for the process for Hologic marketed  products, ensuring we handle customer complaints in accordance with regulations.
AdvaMed Code of Ethics Hologic is committed to conducting itself in compliance with all rules and regulations applicable to the areas in which we operate.
As part  of this commitment, Hologic is a proud supporter of the ideals and values articulated by AdvaMed and a signatory to the 2020 AdvaMed  Code of Conduct.
For more information regarding AdvaMed, please go to: https://www.advamed.org/ about-advamed.
A link to the 2020  Code of Ethics may be found here .
Ethical Interactions with Healthcare Professionals Hologic recognizes that healthcare professionals are critical partners in our ability to fulfill the Company’s mission.
For Hologic to  understand the needs of the healthcare community and provide the highest quality products, we must regularly work and interact with  healthcare professionals.
Strict regulations govern our interactions with healthcare professionals, which include physicians, nurses, and  hospital or medical office administrators, and we ensure our employees are aware of the potential compliance risks inherent in these  interactions.
Our policies and robust employee training programs ensure that any interaction Hologic employees have with a healthcare  professional serves an appropriate and ethical business purpose, does not interfere with the healthcare professional’s independent  medical judgment, and does not violate local law or regulation.
The Company maintains systems, policies and training to ensure that  any exchanges of value between the Company and healthcare professionals are tracked, monitored and reported in accordance with  applicable payment disclosure laws.
We disclose payments and transfers of value made to physicians and other healthcare entities in  every state and country where disclosure is required by law.
In the United States, this information is published on the Centers for Medicare  and Medicaid Services Open Payments site.
Like our Code of Conduct and other compliance policies, our programs to ensure ethical  interactions with healthcare professionals include written policies and online and ad hoc training depending on an employee’s function (for  example, compliance training to sales professionals during their annual sales meeting).
In addition, we use procedures and systems to help  ensure we are meeting our requirements.
These include online expense reporting platforms that include embedded features like required  data fields and compliance certifications prior to submission.
Finally, we employ individuals who have responsibility for monitoring compli - ance, enhancing our programs as needed, and reporting to senior management and the Board.
Our internal policies include the following: • Medical Education and Healthcare Professional Interaction Policy  • State Healthcare Professional Interactions (SHIP) Policy  • Gifts and Other Incentives Policy  • Healthcare Anti-Inducement and Anti-Kickback (HAK) Policy  • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Other International Bribery Laws Policy • Sunshine Act Policy Conflict Minerals Our policy is publicly available here .
Hologic supports the goal of ending human rights violations, violence and harmful environmental  impacts in the covered countries and around the globe.
We are committed to complying with all requirements applicable to the Company  under the conflict minerals rule.CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  55  Antitrust and Competition Laws Compliance Antitrust and competition laws compliance are covered in our employee Code of Conduct.
Antitrust laws are generally designed to  foster and preserve fair and honest competition within the free enterprise system.
Hologic requires all employees to comply with all  applicable antitrust laws, and we are committed to prohibiting any actions that result in unfair methods of competition or restraint of trade.
Formal Grievance Escalation Process Hologic is an organization with strong values of responsibility and integrity.
We are committed to fostering an environment in which  open, honest communications are the expectation, not the exception.
We encourage employees to feel comfortable approaching their  supervisor or management in instances where they believe violations of policies or standards have occurred.
However, in situations where  employees prefer to place an anonymous report in confidence, they are encouraged to use our hotline provider, which is hosted by a third  party.
Employees can submit reports relating to violations stated in our Code of Conduct, as well as ask for guidance related to policies and  procedures.
The information provided is sent to Hologic on a confidential and anonymous basis at the discretion of the employee.
Information Security Governance The Company recognizes that proper governance, oversight and compliance with guidelines related to information security are critical to  the sustainability of our businesses and ensure that critical intellectual property and data privacy are protected.
The Hologic Information  Technology (IT) Department is responsible for developing, maintaining and revising policies, procedures and standards that pertain to  the security and protection of Hologic’s information assets and services.
The governance structure of the IT organization is designed to  ensure that Hologic’s technology investments are aligned with strategic and cross-functional business objectives.
Governance activities  are targeted at understanding the business priorities, enabling the enterprise to grow its operations, and implementing the strategies and  solutions required to support the future needs of Hologic.
The two main components of governance are:  The creation of decision-making mechanisms, whether committees, review boards or written policies.
The assignment of decision-making authority and accountability.
The decision-making structure for Hologic’s information security governance includes the following individuals and entities:  • Chief Information Officer  • Chief Information Security Officer • IT senior leadership team  • IT risk management committee  • Project Management Office (PMO) prioritization leadership committee • IT investment council  Our IT department has established the Hologic Information Technology Risk Management framework to identify the risks associated  with Hologic information resources and IS processes and operations, and to mitigate those risks.
Risk identification and prioritization help  assure that resources expended on information security controls are applied where most needed to protect Hologic’s information assets.
Regular Employee Training on Cybersecurity Issues All Hologic employees, contractors and consultants are required to undergo annual cybersecurity training and education.
Employees  are adequately trained to protect Hologic information, systems and resources, and to perform information security-related duties and  responsibilities.
Security training, education and awareness are provided for all personnel, including but not limited to managers, senior  executives, contract employees and third-party contractors.
These activities are essential tools to help personnel identify potential threats  and vulnerabilities of hardware, software and social engineering techniques and to ensure employee work practices are using effective  countermeasures to reduce cybersecurity risks.
Hologic’s security awareness program is communicated in an engaging manner and in the  following instances:  • Initial training for new employees, contractors and consultants.
• When required by information system changes.
• On an annual basis thereafter.All personnel are trained on many cybersecurity concepts, including the following:  • Enabling and utilizing secure authentication.
• Identifying and reporting different forms of social engineering attacks, such as phishing, phone scams and   impersonation calls.
• Recognizing and reporting potential indicators of insider threats.
• Identifying and properly storing, transferring, archiving and destroying protected information based on the   Information Protection Policy.
• Awareness of causes for unintentional data exposures, such as losing mobile devices or e-mailing the wrong person   due to autocomplete in email.
• Ability to identify the most common indicators of an incident and being able to report such an incident.
Intellectual Property and Data Privacy Protection Data privacy protection is covered in our employee Code of Conduct.
Information and information systems are fundamental to daily  operations and to the future success of Hologic, so our Board of Directors and management team are committed to preserving and  protecting data and information systems.
We have several internal policies and associated training courses that govern employee behavior  and educate employees on how to effectively manage risks.
The objective of our polices is to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and  availability of our information and systems.
Our policies include:  • Information Protection Policy • Information Security Policy • Information Security Management Policy  • Social Media Policy • Acceptable Use Policy for Technology  • Cybersecurity Training, Education, and Awareness Policy  • IS Risk Management Policy  Hologic’s Internal Audit Department periodically audits our cybersecurity program.
In addition, the information security risk and compliance  teams periodically have external experts evaluate and provide recommendations for Hologic’s cyber and risk programs.
Hologic’s internal  vulnerability program evaluates assets weekly.
To prioritize remediations, risks are assessed on business criticality and likelihood.
Hologic  has vulnerability assessments and penetration tests performed on an annual basis by a third-party testing organization.
In addition,  individual assets are tested as required throughout the year.
Information Management System Aligned to Standards Hologic is not currently certified to ISO 27001 standards, but our cybersecurity program is aligned with the National Institute of Technology  (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF).
The NIST CSF offers a simple, yet effective, construct whose core represents a set of cybersecurity  practices and outcomes, as well as technical, operational and managerial security controls that support the five risk management functions:  identify, protect, detect, respond and recover.CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  57  Clinical Trial Governanceclinical trials, as these are considered observational versus interventional.
However, our product package inserts contain a summary of  the clinical performance studies, including results of our IVD diagnostic trials, and these are available without restriction.
If applicable  under executed confidential disclosure agreements, we make raw clinical data available to third parties.
For example, site-specific and  patient de-identified data can be transferred for publication purposes per executed clinical trial agreements.
In addition, most of our  clinical trials are ultimately published in peer-reviewed journals.
Animal Research Policy Animal research is key to many great modern medical advances, and while ending animal research may be possible in the future, it is  not possible today.
As it relates to developing new products at Hologic, animal studies are sometimes required by regulatory agencies  around the world to better understand treatment outcomes and to ensure surgical procedures or medical devices are safe and  effective.
Hologic conducts mandatory animal testing for the development of products primarily related to breast health, skeletal health  and gynecological surgery.
FDA approval is required prior to marketing such products, which must be supported by data including  preclinical animal studies to demonstrate safety and effectiveness of the products and their designs.
Hologic is committed to complying  with currently applicable scientific, legal, regulatory and ethical requirements, guidelines and policies to ensure animal welfare.
Studies  are carried out by individuals who are both trained and qualified in science and in the proper care, handling and use of animals, and  experienced with the species being studied.
The purpose of Hologic’s Quality Management System (QMS) is to consistently meet customer requirements and enhance customer  satisfaction.
The performance of the QMS is documented and maintained to ensure its effectiveness in accordance with applicable  standards and regulatory requirements.
It is aligned with Hologic’s mission and values, and constitutes a framework that ensures  continuous improvement.
The Hologic QMS includes multiple regulatory certifications, such as the current ISO 13485:2016 certifications, which are held at each  of our sites along with EU MDR and IVDR certifications.
In addition, each Hologic site is responsible for maintaining an adequate organi - zational structure to ensure that products manufactured there are designed and produced in compliance with the requirements of the  QMS.
Individuals responsible for performing and verifying work affecting quality are defined.
These individuals have the independence  and authority to assure product quality and conformance to specifications and quality objectives.
Each site has an organizational chart  that clearly delineates roles and functional responsibility.
The Hologic QMS takes into account requirements unique to our business and the regulatory requirements of the healthcare industry.
Hologic has documented procedures for providing complaint notification to the appropriate regulatory authorities.
These meet speci - fied reporting criteria for adverse events and issuance of advisory notices.
These records are maintained in accordance with Hologic’s  record retention program.
Field Action Procedure Our field action procedure defines the requirements and conditions under which a recall (field correction or removal), customer  notification, safety alert, market withdrawal, and/or field safety corrective action take place.
This procedure applies to all facilities and  organizations within Hologic.
It applies to all products manufactured by or for us and is applicable when a Hologic product, including  software, has entered commercial distribution and is suspected of posing a risk to patient health or violating applicable regulations.
All  Hologic entities follow the minimum requirements defined in our Corporate Standard Operating Procedures.
If additional local laws,  regulations and/or standards are required, Hologic sites are responsible for developing a local procedure to ensure full compliance with  applicable requirements.Overview and Clinical Trial Standards The Company recognizes that proper governance, oversight and compliance with guidelines and regulations related to clinical  trials is critical to the sustainability of our businesses and new product development.
Further, it ensures that our products improve  the quality of patient care and clinical outcomes, while meeting our high-quality standards.
Hologic is committed to preserving the  health and dignity of individuals with whom we interact, including, but not limited to, conducting our clinical trials in compliance  with the highest ethical, scientific clinical and regulatory standards.
Our management of clinical trials includes a commitment to  adhere to the national and international best practice guidelines and regulatory agency guidance applicable to each region such as  Good Clinical Practices (GCP), the International Standards Organization (ISO), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) guidance documents; as well as the regulations set forth by the European  Medicines Agency (EMA) and the European Union’s (EU) Medical Device Regulation (MDR) and In Vitro Diagnostic Regulation (IVDR).
We have established managerial responsibility for ethical conduct in clinical trials across all our divisions, and our governance  procedures apply to all U.S. and international trials for both insourced and outsourced trials.
We have implemented and comply to  clinical monitoring procedures, which require the conduct of studies to be observed by qualified clinical monitors with oversight  by our internal clinical affairs management teams and clinical trial leads.
We also ensure that we conduct training and awareness  programs for all Hologic employees involved in clinical trials.
GCP and human subjects protection training is required for all Hologic  employees involved in the conduct of clinical trials, and this training is regularly reviewed and updated.
In addition, our clinical trial  protocols are provided to an Independent Institutional Review Board (IRB) or Ethics Committees (EC) for review as appropriate  for each region.
The IRBs and ECs have the authority to approve, modify or stop clinical trials.
We are committed to conducting  clinical trials in the regions where investigational products will be used and we adhere to applicable local regulatory guidelines and  requirements, which require various clinical trial sites that represent various geographical regions.
All clinical trials comply with the  U.S. and International Codes of Regulations, Standards and Guidelines for Human Subjects Protection, and Ethical Review of Clinical  Trials policy, including ensuring we obtain participants’ free and prior informed consent before they participate in any clinical trial.
Grievance Mechanisms for Clinical Trial Participants Hologic has established processes and procedures associated with clinical trial participant grievances.
A principal investigator  at clinical sites is responsible for participant care, and Hologic has a technical support department that can be contacted by  clinical sites.
Our procedures define the Clinical Affairs department as the first-line contact for our investigational clinical sites.
Reporting on Violations in Clinical Trials, and Corrective Actions We have had no violations to report to date.
Many of our clinical trials are subject to clinical trial site and sponsor audits under FDA’s   Biomedical Research Program (BIMO).
To date, BIMO audits conducted by the FDA on our clinical trials have resulted in no major   findings at either the clinical site or site sponsor.
Risk Management Prior to and During Ongoing Clinical Trials Our clinical trials are managed by Hologic Clinical Affairs departments.
These teams ensure compliance with product development   procedures.
These procedures include governance processes, phase exit reviews and a clinical trial readiness review prior to the   initiation of the trial.
In addition, our core teams have internal department-level documents including a clinical strategy plan that contains   risk mitigation processes.
Clinical Trial Data TransparencyQuality Management Systems Registration of Clinical Trials in Publicly Available Databases When required, we register clinical trial data and results, including terminated clinical trials, on public websites such as ClinicalTrials.gov,  within a reasonable timeframe following conclusion of the trial.
This transparency helps our customers make informed decisions about  the safety and efficacy of our products.
Public disclosure is not currently required for some of our clinical trials, such as IVD diagnostic Recall Metrics FY’18 FY’19 FY’20 FY’Class I 0 0 0 Class II 2 3 2 1CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  59  Complaint Handling Procedure Customer satisfaction is a key priority.
Our procedures establish requirements for complaint handling for marketed products in accor - dance with established regulations across all sites that are governed by our corporate quality system.
They also allow flexibility, where  appropriate, based on the nature of the products and processes at the individual sites.
The requirements of these procedures apply to  all finished products manufactured or distributed by Hologic.
Quality Audit Procedure Our quality audit procedure provides parameters for our internal audit program.
Internal audits are conducted to determine whether  our Quality Management System at all global sites and regions complies with applicable internal and external requirements, ensuring  that these are effectively implemented and maintained.
All Hologic employees are required to complete training in Quality System  requirements and to acknowledge and adhere to our Hologic Quality Policy.
Chemical Compliance Hologic requires a process and system to show compliance to chemical regulations where Hologic product are marketed and sold.
In order to comply with applicable chemical regulations, Hologic has implemented a process and system to ensure all substances  controlled by chemical regulations within Hologic product are identified, monitored and reported as applicable.
TRIR = Total Recordable Incident Rate  Industry Average provide by BLS (https://www.bls.gov/iif/oshsum.htm)  2021 compared to 2020 BLS data for private industry >1000 employees  2020 compared to 2019 BLS data for private industry >1000 employees  2019 compared to 2018 BLS data for private industry >1000 employees  2017 & 2018 compared to 2017 BLS Data for private industry >1000 employees  2016 compared to 2016 BLS Data for private industry >1000 employeesWorkplace Health and Safety Every day, Hologic employees strive for zero health and safety incidents in their workplaces.
We collaborate to improve safety, increase  productivity and reduce waste.
We comply in letter and in spirit with all applicable laws and regulations and implement programs, policies and procedures to ensure  compliance throughout the Company.
Where these are not adequate to ensure protection of human safety, health and the environment, we  establish our own EH&S standards.
We employ management systems and procedures specifically designed to prevent activities and/or conditions that pose a threat to human  safety, health or the environment.
We minimize risk and protect our employees and communities by employing safe technologies and  operating procedures, and by maintaining a robust business continuity program to stay prepared for emergencies.
Three of our manufacturing sites are ISO 14001/ISO 45001-certified, and all other sites are audited annually against the concepts of the  ISO 14001/ISO 45001 standards.
Implementation of our EH&S Management System ensures that we are committed to manufacturing our  products in a safe and environmentally friendly manner, while continuously improving our processes.
Hologic maintains health and safety programs conforming to best practices in the industry.
Safety rules and procedures have been  developed that address behaviors and work practices that can lead to accidents and injuries.
Safety performance is assessed throughout  the year by management and during annual performance reviews.
Hologic rewards positive safety performance and encourages employees to:  • Refuse .
Employees are directed to stop work when an unsafe condition or incident  occurs, and are empowered to inform and/or correct the unsafe condition.
•  Report .
Employees must report unsafe acts and conditions, safety incidents and   injuries to their management and EH&S immediately.
• Remind .
Employees are encouraged to remind each other to work safely.
Year Hologic TRIR Industry Avg.
TRIR 2016 1.6 3.2017 1.2 3.2018 1.0 3.2019 0.8 3.2020 0.9 2.2021 0.7 2.9Recorded Safety  Incidents Compared to Industry Averages Miranda Luce, Diagnostic Product ManagerCEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  61  Supplier Diversity Program A diverse supplier base provides focus on the highest standards of quality, strengthens our ability to meet customers’ needs, and connects  us with our customers, their patients, and our shared communities.
Hologic continuously pursues supplier diversity, both voluntarily and  through a range of federal, state, and local requirements that require that we develop and track efforts to use suppliers that are Minority- Owned, Veteran-Owned and Woman-Owned.
Risk Management Governance Hologic recognizes the importance of managing, monitoring and measuring our suppliers’ performance closely.
We have a defined  Supplier Quality Management (SQM) process that includes the following:  • A consistent and integrated process to classify, evaluate and approve suppliers.
• Processes to execute supplier performance monitoring to ensure specified requirements are met, including an approach to review  suppliers’ performance and scoring.
• Processes to manage supplier-and Hologic-initiated changes to products, processes and/or services, and to ensure compliance  with specified requirements for products, processes and/or services provided to Hologic by suppliers.
Supplier Tiers and Classification Our suppliers are classified based on their potential risk level, and the impact the supplied product or service could have on the form, fit  or function of the Hologic finished product or quality system.
These classifications influence how we interact with our suppliers and how  critical suppliers are identified.
Our supplier segmentation procedure also establishes additional guidelines for how we interact with our  suppliers.
The process for categorizing Hologic’s suppliers promotes greater partnership with key suppliers to foster R&D collaboration,  improve quality, reduce risk, improve on-time delivery performance, and reduce cost.
We track the annual spend with our most critical  suppliers.
Annually, or as needed, our supply chain teams review our current supplier segmentation to determine if any changes are  warranted.
Supplier classifications are defined as follows:   –  Strategic Suppliers:  Have the ability to meet and/or exceed the requirements of preferred suppliers, plus are willing to make  investments at risk to provide access to cutting-edge technology or services that provide Hologic a marketplace advantage.
–  Preferred Suppliers:  Have the ability to meet and/or exceed our quality, delivery and service requirements.
In addition,  these suppliers provide best-in-class pricing, prototyping, technical support and innovation.
Preferred suppliers shall be  allowed to work with R&D and sustain engineering on new projects and changes.
–  Core Suppliers:  Suppliers deemed acceptable for business that do not meet the preferred or strategic classification.
They  meet an acceptable level of quality, delivery, service and cost.
New suppliers start at this level.
–  Restricted Suppliers:  Are not meeting the business needs of Hologic or are a potential new supplier to be used in a limited  capacity.
Restricted suppliers require authorization from management before any new business is awarded or their products  are incorporated into new or revised product designs.
–  Unapproved Suppliers:  Continue not to meet Hologic’s quality and business expectations.
These suppliers have been  removed from our approved supplier list and should not be used.
Supplier Performance Monitoring Supplier performance is monitored per Hologic’s performance monitoring process.
This includes product quality and service metrics,  as well as on-time delivery.
Our process enables us to monitor and assess our suppliers’ ability to consistently meet requirements and is  tracked via supplier performance monitoring scorecards.
Supplier Risk Management We have a formal process to identify potential risks in the supply chain.
We perform supplier continuity risk assessments, conduct supplier  monitoring as described above, and manage risks based on our supplier segmentation guidelines.
Our supplier risk assessments are per - formed from three vantage points: quality risk, supply continuity risk, and information services data risk.
The approaches and scope vary  for each type of assessment, and the breadth of evaluation will always vary, as the risks differ and are inherent to the nature of business  relationships with each supplier.
We maintain tracking metrics on the percentage of the supply chain covered by risk assessments.Introduction The Company recognizes that proper governance, oversight and compliance with regulations related to procurement is critical to the  sustainability of our businesses and to meeting customer expectations.
Hologic’s Procurement and Supplier Quality Guidebook is  shared with our suppliers, with the stated purpose of clearly communicating Hologic’s quality requirements and commercial expecta - tions for suppliers of raw material, components, sub-assemblies, original equipment manufacturers, contract manufacturers and service  providers.
Our Supplier Quality Guidebook contains our Supplier Code of Conduct, and enables us to: • Build solid partnerships with strategic suppliers.
• Ensure our partners comply with all regulations.
• Support suppliers in manufacturing best-in-class products.
• Ensure partners sustain an ongoing commitment to quality.
• Help partners execute customer-focused objectives.
Supplier Compliance As a global company, Hologic is required to comply with numerous standards, regulations, directives and laws as part of maintaining a  Quality Management System (QMS).
Our suppliers are required to follow these same regulations.
• Supplier Code of Conduct   –  General Principle: Hologic suppliers’ plants operate in compliance with the laws of their respective countries and with all  other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
–  Environment: Hologic suppliers’ plants comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.
–  Child Labor: Hologic suppliers employ only workers meeting the applicable minimum legal age requirements.
Suppliers  must comply with all other applicable child labor laws.
–   Wages and Hours:  Hologic suppliers set working hours, wages and any overtime pay in compliance with applicable laws.
–  Supplier Discrimination Policy: Hologic suppliers hire, train, compensate, discipline and terminate workers solely on the ba - sis of their ability to do the job assigned, not based on their race, color, gender, ethnic or national origin; sexual orientation;  religion; age; maternity or marital status; or any other trait not pertinent to their professional performance.
–  Supplier Gift Policy:  Hologic suppliers and employees do not accept gifts from entities that deal with Hologic that could  imply a conflict of interest or that have more than modest value.
• Supplier Non-Disclosure and Confidentiality.
All Hologic suppliers are required to sign and adhere to non-disclosure agreements.
In  addition, we expect suppliers to instruct their employees not to discuss any information relating to Hologic business that falls outside  of their defined responsibilities.
This includes, but is not limited to, any information concerning current or planned products, designs or  volumes.
• Supplier Use of Intellectual Property.
Designs, drawings, CAD data, test results, process sheets, validation protocols and data, and  incoming inspection information that is provided to suppliers and/or developed by a supplier and paid for by Hologic are considered  the property of Hologic.
This information must be safeguarded and transferred upon request.
In addition, any use of Hologic assets or  intellectual property for any purpose not related to Hologic products and/or operations requires prior written permission from Hologic.
Suppliers may not display or use the Hologic logo or any products or branding without written permission from Hologic.
• Supplier Notification.
Suppliers must notify Hologic in a timely manner of any event that could impact the supply or quality of product.
We consider our suppliers an extension of our manufacturing processes and a critical part of our success, and therefore,   we provide necessary support, whenever possible, to address any disruption of supply.
• Business Continuity and Risk Management.
To prevent potential disruptions of supply, which can have a direct impact on our  customers and their patients, we ensure that our suppliers (and their suppliers) have well-defined, documented plans to identify and  mitigate supply chain risks.
These plans identify risks and mitigation plans related to single, sole sources of supply, impacts to the  supplier’s physical plant or infrastructure, and/or the availability of raw material.
The plans should be reviewed and updated regularly  and made available to Hologic for review.Supply Chain ManagementCEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  63  2021 U.S. Workforce Composition* Management Level Women Men Individual Contributor (3144 Employees)                                                                        White 27% 38% Minority race and ethnicity 13% 21% Gender Total 41% 59% Managers (445 Employees)White 36% 40% Minority race and ethnicity 10% 14% Gender Total 46% 54% Director and VPs (310 Employees)                                                                                   White 30% 53% Minority race and ethnicity 6% 11% Gender Total 36% 64% GLT* (14 Employees)                                                                                                           White 21% 57% Minority race and ethnicity 7% 14% Gender Total 29% 71% Total U.S. (3912 Full-time Employees)                                                                                            White 29% 40% Minority race and ethnicity 12% 19% Gender Total 41% 59% *Global Leadership Team includes Non-U.S. Senior Leadership.
Note: 10% of the U.S. population are missing ethnicity.
*Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander.
Note: 10% of the U.S. population are missing ethnicity.
*Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander.
Note: 26% of U.S. hires are missing ethnicity.
*Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander.
Note: 8% of the U.S. population promoted are missing ethnicity.2021 Hired Population Percentages U.S. (Incumbents by Sub-Group)     2021 General Employee Data Global U.S. Full-time Employees 6637 Part-time Employees 68 Total Full- and Part-Time Employees 6705 New Hires 1328 Total Employee Turnover 1026 2021 Age Diversity Global U.S. Gen Y/Millennials (1977-1995) 45% 40% Gen X (1965-1976) 37% 39% Baby Boomers (1946-1964) 12% 17% Other 6% 5%2021 Global Employees Women Men Individual Contributor 43% 57% Manager 42% 58% Director and VPs 35% 65% Global Leadership Team 29% 71% Total Company 43% 57%Employee   Workforce Composition Total Population White Black Hispanic Asian Nat.
Am. NHOPI* Two or More Female 41% 29% 2% 3% 7% 0% 0% 1% Male 59% 40% 3% 5% 9% 0% 1% 1% All 69% 5% 8% 16% 0% 1% 2% Total Population White Black Hispanic Asian Nat.
Am. NHOPI* Two or More Female 45% 28% 2% 5% 9% 0% 0% 1% Male 55% 33% 4% 5% 11% 1% 0% 1% All 61% 6% 10% 20% 1% 0% 2%2021 Population Percentages - U.S.     2021 Promoted Population Percentages - U.S. (Incumbents by Sub-Group) Total Population White Black Hispanic Asian Nat.
Am. NHOPI* Two or More Female 41% 29% 2% 4% 6% 0% 1% 1% Male 59% 40% 3% 6% 9% 0% 1% 1% All 69% 5% 10% 15% 0% 2% 2%Total Population White Black Hispanic Asian Nat.
Am. NHOPI* Two or More Involuntary and  Voluntary (All)94% 64% 5% 10% 12% 0% 1% 1% Female 40% 28% 2% 5% 5% 0% 0% 0% Male 60% 41% 4% 6% 8% 0% 0% 1% Retirement/Death 6% 5% 0% 1% 1% 0% 0% 0% Female 50% 31% 0% 11% 8% 0% 0% 0% Male 50% 47% 0% 0% 3% 0% 0% 0% CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  65  2021 Terminated Population Percentages - U.S. (Incumbents by Sub-Group) 2021 Management Level Workforce Representations by Sub-Group - U.S. Total Population White Black Hispanic Asian Nat.
Am. NHOPI* Two or More Individual  Contributor80% 66% 5% 9% 17% 0% 1% 1% Female 41% 27% 2% 3% 8% 0% 0% 1% Male 59% 38% 3% 6% 10% 0% 0% 1% Managers 11% 76% 2% 6% 14% 0% 1% 1% Female 46% 36% 1% 2% 6% 0% 0% 1% Male 54% 40% 1% 4% 8% 0% 1% 1% Director and VPs 8% 83% 2% 3% 10% 1% 0% 1% Female 36% 30% 0% 1% 4% 1% 0% 0% Male 64% 53% 2% 2% 6% 1% 0% 1% GLT 1% 79% 7% 7% 0% 0% 0% 7% Female 29% 21% 0% 7% 0% 0% 0% 0% Male 71% 57% 7% 0% 0% 0% 0% 7%Women at All Levels (Global)Multicultural (U.S. Only) * Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander.
Note: 17% of U.S. employees terminated are missing ethnicity.
*Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander.
Note: 10% of U.S. population missing ethnicity.40% 35% 30% 25% 20%29% FY19 FY20 FY2130%31% FY19 FY20 FY2143% 42%4 2%50% 45% 40% 35% 30%CEO Letter  Purpose-Driven Company  A Champion for Women  Unique Culture  Global Citizenship  Strong Governance  67  Topic SASB Code SASB Metrics Response Page Affordability & PricingHC-MS-240a.1Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases to the annual increase in  the U.S. Consumer price index.Hologic operates primarily in mature markets, with stable pricing.
This disclosure is not relevant to our business and  therefore we do not consider this information to be material to our investors or external stakeholders.N/A HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each product is disclosed to customersHologic competes vigorously, but fairly and ethically.
This includes providing transparent and accurate pricing to our  customers, and not discussing the agreed upon terms or pricing with any external party, including other customers.
Product SafetyHC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issues, total units recalledMetric is summarized in the “Quality Management Systems” overview section.
There was one (1) recall involving  Hologic products reported in FDA’s Medical Device Recalls database for FY21.
• Panther Fusion Tube Tray [ID-Z-1369-2021, 1355 Kits]"HC-MS-250a.2List of product listed in FDA's MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical  Products DatabaseThere are zero (0) Hologic products listed in FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts database for FY21.
Also reported in the  “Quality Management System” overview section.
HC-MS-250a.3Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer  and User Facility Device ExperienceMetric is disclosed in the “Quality Management System” overview section.
We reported no fatalities for the fiscal year  related to Hologic products.HC-MS-250a.4Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current  Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeHologic has not been a subject of any enforcement actions (e.g., untitled letters, warning letters, seizures, injunctions,  or criminal prosecution) in 2021 for any of the divisions.
This information is also disclosed in the “Quality Management  System” overview section.
Ethical MarketingHC-MS-270a.1Total amount of monitory losses as a result of legal proceedings associated  with false marketing claimsThere have been no monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims.
This is  also reported in the ethical marketing summary within our Governance, Policies and Procedures section.HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing of off-label use of products Reported in the ethical marketing summary within our Governance, Policies and Procedures section.
Product Design &  Lifecycle ManagementHC-MS-410a.1Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human health  considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet demand for  sustainable productsPartially reported in Strong Governance section > Workplace Health and Safety.
Chemical compliance process is  in place following corporate procedures for REACH CORP-00147 and corporate procedures for RoHS Compliance  CORP-00146, EUMDR regulations.
There is also a corporate procedure on hazardous substances (CMR/EDs)  CORP-00425.
We work today with a third party responsible for the collection of EU REACH, EU RoHS, EU MDR/IVDR  Hazardous Substances and California Proposition 65 information on Hologic products.
We also report to the EU WFD  (SCIP) SVHCs above threshold.
We continue a process improvement project, with the goals of expanding oversight  on the identification of hazardous substances and to ensure our compliance with California Prop 65 and global  environmental regulations.
HC-MS-410a.2Total amount of products accepted for take-back and reused, recycled, or  donatedPartially reported in Strong Governance section > Workplace Health and Safety.
Quantified below:   Breast & Skeletal Health: remanufactured/refurbished (4,332), returns (398).
Molecular Diagnostics: remanufactured/ refurbished (114), returns (197).
GYN Surgical: remanufactured/refurbished (1,286), returns (981).Supply Chain  ManagementHC-MS-430a.1Percentage of entity's facilities and Tier 1 supplier's facilities participating in  third-party audit programs for manufacturing and product qualityPartially reported in Supply Chain Management section.
HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the supply chain Partially reported in Supply Chain Management section.
HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated with use of critical materials Partially reported in Supply Chain Management section.
Business EthicsHC-MS-510a.1Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated  with bribery or corruptionThere have been no monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with bribery or corruption.
Also  reported within Strong Governance section > Ethical Interactions with Healthcare Professionals.
HC-MS-510a.2Description of code of ethics governing interactions with healthcare  professionalsReported within Strong Governance section > Ethical Interactions with Healthcare Professionals.
Also covered within  our Hologic Code of Conduct.53Sustainability Accounting Standards –   Medical Equipment and Supplies Response2020 Hologic Sustainability Report  68  Introduction   Environmental   Social   Governance   Policies & EthicsEnabling healthier lives everywhere, every day.
Learn more at Hologic.com RECYCLE Printed on Recycled Paper