2020  
Citizenship  
Report
Message from the CEO  3
Transforming Our World: P&G and  
the UN Sustainable Development Goals  5
Internal Leadership  8
Issue Prioritization  9
P&G at a Glance  1 0
A Company of Leading Brands  1 1
Brand 2030  1 2
Community  
Impact  2 0
Message from Marc Pritchard  2 2
Bringing Clean Water to Communities  
Around the World  2 3
Disaster Relief  2 6
COVID-19 Relief Efforts  2 8
North America  29
Europe  32
Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa  39
Greater China  43
Latin America  44
Habitat for Humanity  4 7
Regional Impact  4 8
North America  48
Europe  50
Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa  54
Greater China  57
Latin America  58
Employee and Consumer Programs  6 0Equality   
& Inclusion  6 2
Message from Shelly McNamara  6 4
Employees  65
Brands  73
Partners & Communities  8 3
Environmental  
Sustainability  93
Message from Virginie Helias  9 5
2020 Goals  9 6
Ambition 2030  9 8
Brands  99
Packages that Use Less, Recycle  
or Refill More  103
Brands Help Save Energy at Home  105
Water-Efficient Products  106
Innovating for More Efficient Solutions  107
Building Even Greater Trust Through  
Transparency, Ingredient Innovation  
and Sharing Our Safety Science  108
Supply Chain  1 09
Climate & Energy  110
Transportation  115
Water  116
Waste  12 0
Striving for Circular Solutions  125
Partnering with Suppliers  126
Forestry  127
Palm Oil  132Society  141
Keeping Plastic Waste Out  
of the Environment  143
Protecting Water for People and Nature  147
Climate  148
Employees  149
Tracking Our Progress  1 52
Facilities / LEED  156
Environmental Resource and Waste Summary  1 57
Global Measurement and Additional  
Operational Data  1 58 
Ethics & Corporate 
Responsibility  160
Message from Debbie Majoras  1 62
Our Purpose, Values and Principles  1 63
Good Governance  1 64
Respecting Human Rights  1 67
Doing the Right Thing with Our Employees  1 69
Doing the Right Thing with Our Consumers  1 73
Doing the Right Thing with Our Supply Chain  1 77
Speaking Up  1 80
Stakeholder Engagement  1 81
ESG Disclosure Frameworks  1 83
Task Force on Climate Related  
Financial Disclosures  
Sustainable Accounting Standards Board  
GRI Content Index  
Table of Contents
2DAVID S. TAYLOR
Chairman of the Board, President  
and Chief Executive OfficerLast fiscal year, we stepped up our efforts to be a force for 
good and a force for growth by doing our part to help people 
and communities overcome the challenges of the COVID-19 
pandemic, address longstanding issues of inequality and 
tackle climate change. We activated every element of our 
Citizenship platform — Community Impact, Equality & Inclusion 
and Environmental Sustainability, with a foundation of Ethics & 
Corporate Responsibility guiding everything we do.
As health care workers and first responders 
fought the pandemic, P&G people worked 
tirelessly to supply people and their families 
with much needed health, hygiene and 
cleaning products.
Our ability to continue to supply consumers 
during this extraordinary time was dependent on the trust in our Company that we had built 
with governments and other stakeholders. 
Our track record as a responsible company 
that works to do the right thing enabled us to 
quickly and credibly work with governments 
around the world to ensure we could continue 
to operate, with important safety protocols 
in place, to maximize the availability of our 
products for people who count on our brands 
and the benefits they provide. At the same time, we ramped up our 
Community Impact efforts on a global scale 
like never before, expanding our existing 
disaster relief operations to donate tens of 
millions of dollars worth of products, cash and 
in-kind support, including personal protective 
equipment, to families and communities 
in need through more than 200 relief 
organizations worldwide. 
Crises like COVID-19 often reveal the 
inequalities in our society, and this crisis 
showed just how much more there is to be 
done to create an equal world. We accelerated 
our efforts in Equality & Inclusion with 
deliberate, sustained action, inside and  
outside of P&G. Dear  
Stakeholders,MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
David Taylor visits our plant in Lima, 
Ohio, one of several global locations where we began producing hand sanitizer for use in our facilities to  help us operate safely and to share with hospitals, health care facilities and relief organizations.
3
We started internally by reviewing our policies and 
practices to make sure they are not only inclusive but 
deliberately advance and enable equality and inclusion. 
For example, flexibility at work, intentional career 
planning and paid parental leave are proven accelerators 
of equality, and even during the pandemic we remained 
focused on each of these. We also made progress 
on our aspiration to reach 50/50 women and men at 
every level of our Company, including P&G’s Board of 
Directors. We’re now sharing our representation data 
and progress transparently on our website at pg .com/
equalityandinclusion .
Externally, over the past few years, we’ve taken a stand 
and used our voice on important issues, ranging from 
pay equality to equal representation to racial inequality, 
through films and campaigns such as “The Look,” “The 
Talk,” “The Words Matter,” and “We See Equal,” among 
others. In recent months, we continued this work with 
films and campaigns like “Choose Equal,” “The Pause,”  
“The Choice,” “Talk About Bias” and more.
To specifically address the systemic racism and 
inequality that have been institutionalized in our society, 
especially against Black Americans, we established the 
P&G Take On Race fund to help fuel organizations that 
fight for justice, advance economic opportunity, enable 
greater access to education and health care and make our communities more equitable. 
We are committed to be part of the solution  
in the fight against inequality. 
At the same time, we remain steadfast in our 
environmental sustainability commitments because the next decade represents a critical window to address 
climate change. This summer we announced our plan 
to be carbon neutral for the decade by 2030. We’ll do this by increasing energy efficiency, purchasing 100% 
renewable electricity globally and advancing a series 
of natural climate solutions. Importantly, while climate change impacts everyone, all too often the people and communities most impacted are those who are most 
vulnerable. By accelerating our progress and investing 
in natural climate solutions, we can help protect 
ecosystems and communities around the world. 
We’ve also accelerated our commitments to protect 
forests. Responsible sourcing is essential for not just our 
business, but more importantly, for the environment 
and people who depend on it. Our shareholders have asked us to issue a report assessing how we can further 
increase the scale, pace and rigor of our efforts on 
responsible forestry. We are engaging with and learning 
from shareholders and stakeholders who supported this 
resolution, and we will provide that report in mid-2021. 
We also publish detailed information about our forestry 
practices in the Environmental Sustainability section of 
this report.
The past year is proof that Citizenship cannot be 
something done on the side; it has to be built into 
how we do business every day. Not only does it build 
trust and equity with consumers and the broader set 
of stakeholders we serve, when done with the right 
intentions and with meaningful actions, it drives growth 
and value creation, which allows us to be a force for 
good and a force for growth in our world that needs  
us all to work together.Citizenship cannot be  
something done on  
the side; it has to be  
built into how we do  
business every day.
DAVID S. TAYLOR
Chairman of the Board,  
President and Chief Executive OfficerMESSAGE FROM THE CEO
4
At P&G, we serve nearly five billion 
people around the world and have 
one of the strongest portfolios of 
trusted brands. We are committed 
to being a good citizen and always 
doing the right thing. We are 
proud that many of our ongoing 
corporate Citizenship efforts support 
the United Nation’s Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).Transforming  
Our WorldP&G AND THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS P&G PARTICIPATION
• For more than 180 years, P&G has been focused on improving the communities we serve. Many of our community 
impact programs such as our Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program and Hope Schools are aimed at alleviating poverty and providing those in needs with health, hygiene and the comforts of home.
• In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, P&G, our brands and its people stepped up to provide tens of millions  of dollars in product, cash and in-kind donations.
P&G and our brands have donated millions of dollars in cash and product to Feeding America and similar 
organizations to help them provide food to people in need through a nationwide network of food banks.
• Through partnerships with more than 150 organizations, our Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program has provided clean drinking water to people in more than 90 countries.
• Our Safeguard handwashing program has helped more than 72 million children by teaching them one simple message: clean hands save lives.
• The Always Puberty & Confidence Education program helps more than 18 million people across more than 50 countries navigate puberty with confidence.
• Always has been helping girls around the world by tackling period-related barriers to their education and confidence. This includes providing access to period products and helping break the stigma that still surrounds periods. Through programs like our global award-winning #EndPeriodPoverty campaign and others, we’ve donated more than 90 million period products to help keep girls focused on reaching their full potential.
• In 1996, P&G founded Project Hope, a program that has built and renovated hundreds of schools in China, benefitting children living in rural or underdeveloped areas. P&G China continues its three-year corporate social responsibility plan, which includes giving P&G Hope School students more access to the performing arts.
Our gender equality efforts are focused on three areas where we can have the greatest impact:
• Leveraging our significant voice in advertising and media to tackle gender bias through campaigns like Ariel #ShareTheLoad, Secret #AllStrengthNoSweat, Always #LikeAGirl and the Always Saudi #WeAreTheGenerationOfFirsts;
• Removing gender-biased barriers to education for girls and economic opportunities for women through our corporate programs and policy advocacy efforts;
• Creating an inclusive, gender-equal environment inside P&G — and advocating for gender-equal workplaces beyond. P&G — where everyone can contribute to their full potential.
5
• The P&G Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program provides clean water through water-purification packets invented by 
P&G scientists. Working with more than 150 partners, we’ve provided more than 17 billion liters of clean water  to families in need and will deliver 25 billion liters of clean water by 2025.
• We have provided one billion people with access to water-efficient products.
• We have reduced water use in manufacturing facilities by 27% per unit of production, with conservation focused  on water-stressed regions.
• P&G now purchases 100% renewable electricity in the U.S., Canada and Europe. These three markets represent more than 70% of our purchased electricity globally.
• Our plants are now powered by 30% renewable energy, including our Albany Georgia bio-mass facility.
• We will continue pursuing new wind, solar and geothermal projects to further accelerate the transition to renewables.
• With more than 99,000 global employees, P&G takes seriously the responsibility to provide our workforce with the economic stability to support their families and local communities. This employment spurs economic growth in the nearly 70 countries where we have operations, thus building stable economies and supporting civil society. P&G works with more than 45,000 suppliers globally, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs in many communities to support 
P&G business.
• Starting in 1976, our Supplier Diversity program in the U.S. has created economic opportunities for underrepresented 
businesses, such as minority-owned, women-owned, LGBTQ+, veterans and people with disabilities. The program has since expanded globally, and we’re partnering with organizations like U.N. Women and WeConnect to further ensure women entrepreneurs in all regions are getting access to training, support and business opportunities.
Innovation is at the center of P&G’s operations, and we invest $1.8 billion annually in our research and development programs. P&G operates 13 Innovation Centers around the world and leverages hundreds of scientific disciplines to create and drive innovation to anticipate and improve the lives of the world’s consumers.
For years we have put a spotlight on bias and inequality to spark dialogue that leads to understanding and action. This year, we highlighted the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on Black, Hispanic and LGBTQ+ communities and sponsored fundraising and relief efforts for those impacted by the pandemic in America. We established the P&G Take On Race Fund to help fuel organizations that fight for justice, advance economic opportunity, enable greater access to 
education and health care and make our communities more equitable.
• P&G and our brands bring the comforts of home to those impacted by natural disaster. This year, we supported more 
than 20 global disaster responses.
• Through our COVID-19 relief efforts, we helped local communities around the world with our brands, resources and people to help alleviate some of the impacts of the pandemic. For example, in the U.S., Tide Loads of Hope, made possible by Tide and Tide Cleaners, provided free laundry services for first responders and their families. They served more than 104,000 frontline responder visits, cleaning more than 1.8 million garments — all for free.
• We have active community impact projects around the world. From Shiksha education programs in India, to building inclusive playgrounds in Germany, to constructing a girls home in Kenya in partnership with Habitat for Humanity, we are committed to improving lives and communities around the world.
P&G AND THE UN SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
6
In 2010, P&G set ambitious environmental goals for 2020 and to date we have achieved the following:
• 100% of our plants are now zero manufacturing waste to landfill.
• 90% of product packaging is either recyclable or programs are in place to create the ability to recycle it  . 
• 99.5% of paper packaging contains either recycled or third-party certified virgin content, and we have plans in place  
to address the remaining small fraction (0.5%) of our supply.
• We have doubled the use of recycled resin in plastic packaging.
This year, P&G made a new commitment to be carbon neutral for the decade across our operations.  
We will achieve this by:
• Cutting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 50% across our operations by 2030
• Funding a range of natural climate solutions projects that protect, improve and restore critical ecosystems where carbon is stored, delivering a carbon benefit equal to remaining GHG emissions from our operations
P&G reaches five billion people through our brands, and with this scale, comes a responsibility to give consumers the 
power to reduce their own carbon footprints with products that are designed to help save energy, water and natural resources. This includes ensuring 70% of machine loads are washed in low-energy cycles — a goal set in 2010 that we  
met in 2019.
P&G is committed to help reduce the flow of plastic to our oceans. We’ve taken a leadership role in the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, a CEO-driven international organization focused on bringing together industry, government, communities and civil society in the fight to end plastic waste. We are also joining forces with organizations like The Ocean Conservancy’s Trash Free Seas Alliance, WWF ReSource: Plastic and others to find solutions that keep plastic 
out of nature.
P&G’s goal is to create responsible, ethical and transparent supply chains. Our commitment and approach in 
sustainable palm is based on: RSPO certification and supply chain management; environmental and social development programs and working to influence change across the industry via partnership. We now use 100% RSPO certified palm oil, with plans to increase to 100% certified palm kernel oil by the end 2022. Our long-term smallholder 
program is focused on improving yields, sustainable practices and thus livelihood of small farmers. Consumers can 
support responsible forestry by choosing our Charmin and Puffs products, which are Forest Stewardship Council® certified and for every tree used, at least one is regrown.
Ethics is at the foundation of all of P&G’s Citizenship efforts. We believe in transparency and partnerships, we respect human and labor rights, and we source responsibly. This reputation of trust and integrity, as well as holding all of our partners to these same standards, is what sets us apart.
P&G partners with U.N. agencies, the World Economic Forum, governments, civil society, NGOs, suppliers, retailers, industry associations and businesses as we work toward our goals to promote economic growth, equality and inclusion, protect our planet and improve lives.
P&G AND THE UN SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
7
The objective of our Citizenship efforts 
is to build trust with consumers and the 
broader set of stakeholders we serve, and 
to have a positive impact on society and 
the world. We’ll achieve this through a 
strong ethics and compliance culture that supports conserving resources, protecting 
the environment, improving social 
conditions, respecting human and labor 
rights, and empowering individuals and the 
communities in which we live, work and 
serve. Ethics & Corporate Responsibility is 
the foundation for our other three priority focus areas: Community Impact, Equality & 
Inclusion and Environmental Sustainability. 
Each of these areas is led by an executive 
sponsor committed to ensuring we achieve 
our specific objectives. These executive 
sponsors form the P&G Citizenship Board 
with P&G’s Chairman of the Board, President 
and Chief Executive Officer as the Chair.Internal  
Leadership
Citizenship Board
David Taylor, Chairman of the Board,  
President and Chief Executive Officer
Additional Board Members
Damon Jones, Chief Communications Officer ; 
Tracey Grabowski, Chief Human Resources Officer
Community  
Impact
Marc Pritchard  
Chief Brand Officer Equality  
& Inclusion 
Shelly McNamara   
Chief Equality & Inclusion OfficerEnvironmental  
Sustainability 
Virginie Helias  
Chief Sustainability Officer
Ethics & Corporate 
Responsibility 
Debbie Majoras   
Chief Legal Officer and Secretary
8
Issue Prioritization
Issue prioritization continues to be an 
important tool to ensure we understand 
stakeholder views and address the most 
relevant issues through our Citizenship 
focus areas. This year, we calibrated our 
previous issue prioritization exercise by 
assessing both external and internal data. 
To assess relevant external views, we 
assessed social media sources and trend 
reports, and interviewed P&G personnel 
who interact with key external stakeholder 
groups. P&G employee insights formed our 
internal stakeholder view. The results from 
this exercise were consistent with what was 
reported last year and served to reinforce 
our key Citizenship priorities addressed in 
this report. 
Insight 1  
Governance & Ethical Conduct, Human & Labor 
Rights, Corporate Transparency, and Product Safety & 
Ingredient Transparency were rated as high priorities 
by stakeholders. Our ongoing commitment and 
efforts in these areas are embedded within our entire 
Citizenship report and highlighted in our Ethics & 
Corporate Responsibility section. This year, the issue 
of Social & Economic Inclusion ranked noticeably 
higher than in years past. Global events over the last 
12 months have clearly elevated the importance of 
this issue for both internal and external stakeholders. As outlined in this report, P&G has been focused on 
inclusion for many years, and we have placed an increased emphasis on how we can be a force for 
positive change.
Insight 2  
Climate, water, waste and packaging are major focus 
areas of our environmental sustainability pillar and 
results of the issue prioritization exercise reinforced 
the importance of these issues for our stakeholders. 
This year, climate change ranked noticeably higher 
than in previous years. Recent U.N. reports on climate 
change, increased severity and frequency of severe 
weather events, and intense fire seasons in some 
regions of the world have rightly increased the 
urgency and focus on addressing climate change. We 
have responded to this by delivering on our existing 
commitments and accelerating our efforts on climate change. Read about our efforts on climate change and other key environmental issues in the Environmental 
Sustainability section of this year’s report.Insight 3  
The topics of Promoting Sustainable Lifestyles and 
Sustainable Product Design & Innovation were also 
important to our stakeholders. Our brands continue  
to play a leading role in driving innovation and 
engaging with our consumers on a wide range of 
topics. Our Ambition 2030 framework places an 
increased emphasis on the role our brands can play  in driving positive impact. Learn more about the  
four focus areas of our 2030 Ambition Goals.
9
P&G at  
a Glance
Our aspiration is to serve the world’s 
consumers better than our best 
competitors, in every category and every country where we choose 
to compete — creating superior 
shareholder value in the process.  
We work hard every day to make 
quality products and services that 
improve people’s lives, now and  
for generations to come. 
 N orth America 3 47%
 Europe  2 2%
 A sia Pacific  1 0%
 G reater China  9 %
 L atin America  6 %
 I ndia, Middle East & Africa (IMEA)  6 %FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (UNAUDITED) 
Amounts in billions, except per share amounts2020
Net Sales $71.0
Operating Income $15.7
Net Earnings Attributable to P&G $13.0
Net Earnings Margin from Continuing Operations 18.5%
Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share from Continuing Operations 1 $4.96
Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share 1 $4.96
Operating Cash Flow $17.4
Dividends per Common Share $3.03
2020 NET SALES BY  
GEOGRAPHIC REGION2020 NET SALES BY  
BUSINESS SEGMENT 2
1  D iluted net earnings per common share are calculated based on 
net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble.
2  T hese results exclude net sales in Corporate.
3  N orth America includes the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. F abric & Home Care  3 3%
 B aby, Feminine & Family Care  2 6%
 Beauty  1 9%
 H ealth Care  1 3%
 Grooming  9 %
10
A Company of  
Leading BrandsOur portfolio is organized around 10 product categories and about 65 brands. These 
10 category-based business units have historically grown faster with higher margins 
than the balance of the Company. These are categories where we have leading market 
positions and where product technologies deliver performance differences that 
matter to consumers. Across all 10 of our categories, we’re focused on meaningful 
and noticeable superiority in all elements of our consumer proposition — products, 
packaging, brand communication, retail execution (in-store and online) and superior 
value — in each price tier where we compete.
Family Care Fabric Care Home Care Baby CareGrooming Oral Care Personal Health Care Hair Care Skin & Personal Care
Feminine CareHEALTH CARE BEAUTY GROOMING
FABRIC AND HOME CARE BABY AND FEMININE CARE FAMILY CARE AND  
P&G VENTURES
11
Brand 2030
Brands as a Force for Good and a Force for Growth
Consumers today want to know what brands — and the people behind the brands — believe 
in, and they expect brands to play a meaningful role in solving some of the most complex challenges facing our world. Our brands serve five billion people around the world, which provides a unique opportunity to not only delight consumers through superior product performance, but also to spark conversations, influence attitudes, change behaviors and drive positive impact on society and the environment. This is why, in addition to and in line with our ongoing Citizenship efforts, our brands are reinventing brand-building to become  
a force for good and a force for growth. 
Last year we introduced the framework we’re using 
to ensure our leadership brands enable responsible consumption and have a positive impact on the world, called Brand 2030 . We’ve trained our brand teams 
on the Brand 2030 requirements, supporting them as they integrate brand citizenship, including social impact and environmental sustainability, as a core expectation in their respective brand strategies and executions. Within this framework, each brand needs to implement seven ambitious Fundamentals across product, packaging and supply chain and define a brand-specific North Star commitment, helping to solve for a societal challenge to which they can uniquely and meaningfully contribute.
Today, 30% of our leadership brands have achieved the 
first out of three milestones on the journey to 2030: they have defined meaningful and measurable goals for a brand-specific North Star and have systematically integrated all Brand 2030 requirements into their end-to-end business processes. To achieve the second milestone, they will need to take consistent action to achieve their North Star commitment over time with a measurable positive impact on society and the environment. Additionally, they will work to meet the ambitious goals of at least three of the seven Fundamentals, progressing their efforts in the areas of product, packaging, more sustainable materials, communication, transparency, responsible sourcing and manufacturing.
We expect most brands to achieve the second 
milestone by 2025, progressing to the third and last milestone — which will require significant and sustained progress against their North Star goals and delivering against two more Fundamentals — towards the end-goal of meeting all criteria by 2030. As the journey will take us through the next decade, our  intent is to regularly review these criteria and update them as science, stakeholder views and our own experience evolves.Equality  
& Inclusion
Environmental  
Sustainability Community  
Impact
Ethics & Corporate  
Responsibility
12Brand 2030  
Journey
1
North Star and Fundamentals 
integrated into brand strategy  
+
1/7 Fundamentals met2
On track to achieve 
North Star Goals
+
3/7 Fundamentals met3
Significant progress  
against North Star Goals
+
5/7 Fundamentals met2030
Brand has met its  
North Star Goals
+
7/7 Fundamentals metGoals  
Met
13Always
Always is committed to protecting tomorrow, together, 
with responsible menstrual care and bladder leak solutions. We believe that we have a responsibility to offer products that are safe, have less environmental impact and help girls and women feel protected  and confident.By 2030, Always wants to ensure that no girl loses confidence at puberty because of their gender or their period. Our #LikeAGirl  campaign has been successful 
in tackling gender stereotypes around the world, with 94% agreeing that it helps girls feel more confident. 1
Our global Puberty & Confidence Education program , 
which reaches more than 18 million children, parents and teachers each year, helps ensure young people have the knowledge they need to navigate puberty and their periods with confidence; and our global product donation programs, including the award-winning #EndPeriodPoverty  campaign, help ensure 
that young people have access to the period products they need to keep learning and stay confident. Over the past year, Always has donated more than 58 million period products to those in need and we are more than halfway toward reaching our two-year 100 million target. Learn more about Always’ work around the world here .
Always is also working to make meaningful progress to reduce our environmental footprint through ambitious goals around product innovation and supply chain impacts. To further enable responsible consumption, we are committed to increasing the use of sustainable materials in our products to 50%, and are working to have our packaging incorporate 50% renewable or recycled materials by 2025. We work to incorporate better materials so we can use less of it, as seen in the Always Ultra pads in the United States, Europe and India, where we have reduced the materials used by 10–20% in the last seven years. 
Today, almost all Always packaging is recyclable where 
recycling programs exist. Our manufacturing sites send zero manufacturing waste to landfill globally and are on track to use 100% renewable purchased electricity across all facilities by the end of the decade. Through these efforts to protect the planet, combined with an ongoing commitment to product safety and ingredient transparency, Always strives to ensure consumers don’t have to choose between period products that are right for them and right for the world. Brand 2030
#ENDPERIODPOVERTY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 
PRODUCT SAFETY 
1 Among young women who are aware of the #LikeAGirl Campaign, Research Now, U.S. 2017Always’ #LikeAGirl 
campaign has been 
successful in tackling 
gender stereotypes, 
helping girls feel more 
confident.
141 Data valid for Europe
2 Products available on shelf, for Western Europe only
3  E xcluding Russia and Ukraine, Certificates of renewable energy  
from windmill farmPampers
Babies make the world a better place for us all. That’s 
why Pampers cares for every baby’s happy and healthy 
development and for the planet they grow up in. The 
brand is committed to giving every baby the best start 
in life, including babies in need, and to leading new 
sustainable waste management solutions for diapers 
and wipes.
Out of 135 million babies born every year, approximately 
one million are born extremely premature and most of 
them currently don’t have access to the diapers they 
need to develop. By the end of the decade, Pampers 
aims to provide them with the smallest diapers, 
specially designed to help enhance what’s vital for 
their early development like uninterrupted sleep, 
skin protection and “Kangaroo Care.” The journey 
has already started with nearly 35,000 extremely 
premature babies already using Pampers Preemie 
diapers. The brand is also using our voice to raise 
awareness around preemie issues and best practices. A 
recent example is the #PampersforPreemies campaign 
launched in November 2019 in the UK, where Pampers 
announced we are also donating our smallest diapers 
to premature babies across hospitals. 
Pampers is also committed to give used diapers and 
wipes a second life via leading new sustainable waste 
management solutions to help babies grow up in a 
more sustainable planet. Steps are already in place 
via the first recycling facility in Italy that recycles used 
diapers with a technology developed by FaterSmart, a joint venture of P&G and Angelini. Pampers has 
also been running a diaper waste collection pilot in 
Amsterdam since 2019 that was honored with the AIM 
(Association des Industries de Marque) — Nudging For 
Goods Award 2019. 
Pampers is also committed to make a meaningful 
difference across our total environmental footprint 
by 2030 to further drive and enable responsible 
consumption. We have made our products lighter, 
halving the diaper weight while doubling the 
absorbency1 over the past 50 years. The cellulose in the 
diaper and the paper boxes are made from materials from FSC-certified forests and other controlled 
sources.
2 Today, all of our diaper packaging is recyclable 
where recycling programs exist. And all P&G Baby 
Care manufacturing sites send zero manufacturing 
waste to landfill globally. We also recently celebrated 
that all Baby Care manufacturing sites in U.S. and 
Europe3 now purchase 100% renewable electricity. 
This is a significant step toward our commitment 
of 100% renewable electricity globally by 2030. Our 
Pampers® Pure™ diapers and wipes were created with 
responsibly sourced plant-based materials and other 
thoughtfully selected materials.Brand 2030
AIM NUDGING FOR GOOD AWARD  RECYCLING USED BABY DIAPERS
15Charmin
Charmin is committed to promoting healthy forests 
for generations to come. We drive this forestry commitment by helping to protect, restore, and grow forests. To protect forests and ensure our paper is sourced from responsibly managed forests, Charmin is Forest Stewardship Council 
TM (FSC) certified. To restore 
forests, we have been partnering with the Arbor Day Foundation since 2017, planting trees, especially in areas devastated by wildfires. And in Brazil’s Atlantic Forest, we’ve teamed up with one of our suppliers to do landscape restoration planning. We work with the Nature Conservancy and the American Forest Foundation to help family forest owners in the U.S. better manage their forests. We have continued our partnership with the Rainforest Alliance 1 by supporting 
their efforts to develop and launch the Forest Allies Community of Practice, and we are proud to be founding members. Finally, Charmin is committed to driving tree growth. Within our supply chain, for every tree we use, at least one is regrown. However, our efforts do not stop with forestry. Charmin continues to use recycled fibers where it makes sense, with 100% of our toilet tissue inner cores made from recycled fiber. Additionally, we have reduced the consumption necessary to complete the task via improved strength and absorbency, thus allowing consumers to use less toilet tissue. 2Brand 2030
1 The Rainforest Alliance is an international non-profit organization working to create a better future for people and nature.
2 Versus leading bargain brand
16Herbal Essences
Herbal Essences aims to enable everyone to experience 
the positive power of nature, every day. Unleashing the power of plants, Herbal Essences nurtures our consumers’ hair, their spirit and the planet.
Herbal Essences is the first global hair care brand 
to partner with the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew , a 
world-leading authority on plant science. The brand is committed to protecting endangered plants and promoting plant biodiversity. To achieve this, Herbal Essences is partnering with Kew’s Millennium Seed Bank , the largest and most diverse wild plant seed 
bank in the world. We have successfully launched the first step in the journey with the “Save 20 in 2020” initiative , working with local partner organizations to 
save 20 threatened plant species that are at risk from climate change and habitat loss. Herbal Essences is engaging consumers, influencers and other partners to promote the campaign and raise awareness of the global threat to plant biodiversity, with experts predicting that two in five plant species are at risk  of extinction.
To further enable and inspire responsible consumption, 
Herbal Essences has clearly defined goals to decrease our environmental footprint, with a 50% reduction in the use of petroleum-based virgin plastic by 2025 and 100% recyclable or reusable packaging by 2030. We are exploring innovative closed-loop packaging systems with the ‘Loop’ initiative in partnership with TerraCycle in Paris . All the Herbal Essences manufacturing sites are 100% Zero Waste to Landfill, with goals to achieve 100% renewable electricity, a 50% reduction in GHG and a 35% increase in water efficiency by 2030. 
Herbal Essences is also committed to the responsible 
sourcing of priority ingredients of natural origin. We are leading the way in sharing comprehensive information about our ingredients , transparently explaining our 
4-step safety process  and being recognized by PETA  
as a cruelty free brand .
Herbal Essences has pioneered the use of tactile markings  to make product recognition easier for 
visually impaired consumers, and we have a goal to include this on all packaging by 2025. We have also made our new website accessible to people with visual impairments, and aim to make all our priority communication tools sight- and hearing-impaired accessible by 2025.Brand 2030
Herbal Essences teamed 
up with Royal Botanic 
Gardens Kew’s Millennium 
Seed Bank to help protect 
20 endangered plant 
species in 2020.
SAVE 20 IN 2020 
17Ariel
Ariel’s history and equity are rooted in science, so we 
intend to make use of our expertise in this area to have a positive impact on the planet.
Scientifically, the biggest environmental impact of 
laundry is primarily related to the energy used to heat water for a load of laundry. Ariel’s clear focus is helping to save resources, in particular energy, when doing the laundry. Turning from 40ºC to 30ºC already saves 35% of the in-use energy.
In addition, we have robust plans to use less and 
better plastics. Ariel packaging will be designed for full recyclability in Europe by 2022 and globally by 2025. Last year, we replaced our round PODs tubs with lightweight bags across European markets, saving 75% of plastic per unit, and as of this this year, the level of post-consumer recycled resin has been increased up to 50% in European Ariel bottles.
We also place great emphasis on transparency, so the 
ingredients used for Ariel are available on our website , 
and we want to expand this to include even more details across the supply chain. Our Fabric & Home Care manufacturing sites in North America and the E.U. use 100% renewable purchased electricity and send zero manufacturing waste to landfill.In 2019, P&G Global Fabric Care reported that 70% of machine loads were being done in low-energy cycles, meeting our 2020 goal. Because every degree makes a difference, Ariel strives to lower the average temperature of doing the laundry even further. We want to inspire half a billion people in Europe and beyond to adapt a more sustainable habit of washing in colder temperatures. Additionally, we aspire to make washing in cold water the new standard and to save additional CO2 in our own operations, as well as through innovative, scientifically-grounded partnerships.
Brand 2030
Ariel’s clear focus 
is helping to save 
resources, in particular 
energy, when doing the 
laundry. Turning from 
40ºC to 30ºC already 
saves 35% of the  
in-use energy.  
Ariel strives to set  
new standards for  
sustainable laundry.
18Pantene
Pantene has been working with experts* from Yale  
University  and Columbia Business School  and found 
that while a great hair day feels and looks different 
for everyone, one thing is certain: hair has the power to transform how people feel about themselves, their sense of identity and even how they think. 
Unfortunately, less than one out of ten people who 
identify as female have a great hair day every day. In addition to constantly innovating to create more great hair days for everyone — all hair types, all hair conditions, all ages and all genders — we are leveraging our voice to remove the cultural or social biases about hair that prevent people from expressing their true identity. In Europe, for example, Pantene took a first step with #HairHasNoGender, which explores the power of hair to express one’s identity through personal, powerful stories from transgender individuals and gender nonconforming advocates. 
In Japan, the brand tackled hair-related discrimination 
in school. Japanese students who have anything other than black, straight hair were required to submit a signed “natural hair certificate” or to bring in baby pictures to prove that their hair is natural, not created with chemicals or a curling iron. Even after submitting proof, many students were still forced to dye and straighten their hair to conform. In the summer of 2019, a petition inspired by the Pantene Japan #HairWeGo campaign led the Tokyo Metropolitan Board of Education to change school policy permanently. 
We are also using our global scale to drive positive 
change for the environment and enable responsible consumption. Among our goals, Pantene is committed to providing water efficient products and waterless product innovation to consumers, such as the Pantene No-Rinse conditioner launched in 2019 in Indonesia and the Pantene Waterl<ss  collection launched in 2020 
in North America. We have also clearly defined goals to decrease our environmental footprint, with a 50% reduction in the use of petroleum-based virgin plastic by 2025 and 100% recyclable or reusable packaging by 2030. In Europe, for example, the brand already uses up to 25% PCR in all plastic bottles, and we were the first hair care brand to be part of Loop  in the U.S., an 
e-commerce circular platform that provides reusable and durable packaging to shoppers. Furthermore, all manufacturing sites are 100% zero waste to landfill, with goals to achieve a 50% reduction in GHG, 35% increase in water efficiency and 100% purchased renewable electricity by 2030. We have already achieved the renewable electricity goal in  
North America and Europe. Brand 2030
#HAIRWEGO #HAIRHASNOGENDER 
*Dr. Marianne LaFrance, Emerita Professor of Psychology and of Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Ph.D. at Yale Univeristy, and Dr. Adam 
Galinsky, Ph.D., Paul Calello Professor of Leadership and Ethics at the Columbia Business School.
19As a Company committed to being a force for good and 
a force for growth, we believe we have a responsibility to give back to the communities around the world. Helping communities is one of our Citizenship priorities and rooted in who we are as a Company. As a result of COVID-19, we stepped up to provide support for communities around the world in addition to the work our brands and people are doing to make a tremendous positive difference in the lives of so many. These pages share just a few of the many community impact stories from fiscal year 2019/2020.Community  
Impact
20
Community Impact
Message from Marc Pritchard  
Bringing Clean Water to  
Communities Around the World  
Disaster Relief   
COVID-19 Relief Efforts  
 No rth America  
  Europe  
  A sia Pacific, Middle East  
and Africa  
 G reater China  
 L atin America  Habitat for Humanity  
Regional Impact  
 No rth America  
 Europe  
  A sia Pacific, Middle East  
and Africa  
 G reater China  
 L atin America  
Employee and Consumer Programs  
21
MARC PRITCHARD
Chief Brand OfficerMessage from  
Marc Pritchard
For generations, we’ve united to support consumers and 
communities through unexpected challenges, providing the brands 
people count on to take care of their personal health and to create 
clean and healthy homes. In light of this year’s pandemic, we’ve 
stepped up even further to ensure we are protecting our employees, 
serving consumers and supporting communities. 
We are using our brands and people to help bring a sense of 
normalcy in these uncertain times, and our brands are uniquely positioned to help those in need, especially those in underserved 
communities who are disproportionately impacted by the pandemic. 
In the following pages, we will share just a few of the many 
stories about how we are making a difference in the communities 
everywhere — bringing clean water to those in need, being there  
in times of disaster and using our brands, our voices and our talents 
to give back.
Being a good corporate citizen is core to who we are as a Company, 
and our founders made giving back a priority and a bedrock 
principle in how we do business. It remains a priority now, and in 
the future, as we are committed to making a meaningful difference 
in peoples’ lives each and every day.
22
Nearly a billion people do not have 
access to clean water and that is 
exactly the challenge that U.N. 
Sustainable Development Goal #6 and 
our Children’s Safe Drinking Water 
(CSDW) Program works to address. 
In 2004, we launched the non-profit program that uses 
a P&G-invented technology — P&G Purifier of Water packets — that can transform 10 liters of dirty and potentially deadly water into clean, drinkable water  in only 30 minutes. Working with more than 150 public, private and  
non-profit partners, we have delivered more than  
17 billion liters of clean water that has helped transform communities through improved health, access to education and better economic opportunities. We’ve  
set a new goal of providing 25 billion liters by 2025. To learn more about the CSDW Program, visit our website. Bringing Clean Water to  
Communities Around the World
We have provided more than 
17 billion liters 
of clean water using our P&G 
Purifier of Water packets.
CSDW PROGRAM  
23
The Power of Clean Water in Argentina
P&G Argentina continues supporting the CSDW 
Program in the vulnerable regions of the country lacking access to clean water. This year, we expanded our program and delivered more than 7.5 million liters of water, reaching a total of more than 12,000 families. Last March, we celebrated World Water Day and included new families in the Salta province who were in desperate need after a river overflowed. With the support of many local NGOs of Salta, we were able to support them and help them get access to clean water. We are proud to share that we have surpassed our goal of delivering 25 million liters of clean water in Argentina since the program began, and we are looking forward to expanding the program.Photography Exhibit Features the  
Power of Clean Water
As part of our fifth anniversary of the CSDW Program in Central America, we launched a photography contest in alliance with Walmart. In August 2019, consumers in Central America were able to see the power of clean water through the lens of their local artists. Photographers from Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica visited a community that benefited from the CSDW Program and showed their photos in a regional exhibition in different Walmart stores in these countries.
The exhibit told the stories of Petrona, a grandma 
supporting five grandchildren in Jalapa, Guatemala, who has seen her community transformed by the power of clean water; Rosa in Honduras who sends her husband to work every day with clean water thanks to the program; Olmara in Nicaragua and Saray in Costa Rica who use P&G’s water purifier to transform the water of their rivers into clean drinking water.Bringing Clean Water to  
Communities Around the World
In Argentina, we’ve 
surpassed our goal  
to provide 25 million 
liters of clean water.
24
Celebrating Our 17 Billion Liter Milestone 
with Mary and Her Family In Kenya
In June, we reached a significant milestone for our 
CSDW Program — providing 17 billion liters of clean water on our way to 25 billion by 2025. We recognized this milestone with Mary, her husband Daniel, their two daughters, Celline and Lupita, their son Keith , as well as Vena, who is just nine years old, immune-compromised and staying with Mary to have access to medical care. They live in western Kenya and benefit from the clean water brought to them by our CSDW Program through our partnership with CARE International . 
Mary’s life was forever changed when her sister was diagnosed with cholera after drinking untreated water. “Since then, my family only drinks water treated using P&G water purifier,” she said.
For Mary, the transformation has been significant. 
“Clean water means that my children who are still very young have access to safe water at all times. We have not experienced any cases of diarrhea in this household since we started using P&G Purifier of Water.” 
According to Mary, her community used to experience 
a lot of cholera cases; however, since 2016 when they started using the packets, they have not had any cholera issues. Partnering with Our Customers in Vietnam 
to Bring Clean Water to Those in Need
P&G’s CSDW Program started in Vietnam in 2016 with 
the partnership of Red Cross Vietnam. After four years, the program has touched and improved the lives of more than 580,000 people by providing 90 million liters of clean drinking water in 10 provinces of Vietnam. P&G Vietnam has partnered with our customer, Saigon CO.OP, to bring this meaningful program to Vietnamese consumers.Bringing Clean Water to  
Communities Around the World
MARY’S STORY  
We reached a significant milestone  
for our CSDW Program — providing  
17 billion liters of clean water on  
our way to 25 billion by 2025.
25
When faced with unexpected conditions 
following a disaster, P&G products can provide comfort and restore a sense of normalcy to those who are recovering. Working with a global of network of trusted disaster relief partner organizations, we provide everyday essential products and critical aid to families around the globe. This year, we provided aid and direct support in response to more than twenty disasters, including the Australian bushfires, flooding in India and Thailand, Hurricane Dorian in the Caribbean, devastating earthquakes in Puerto Rico and Turkey, and floods and tornadoes across the U.S. And when faced with a global pandemic, we shifted our resources to assist frontline workers and health care providers while also reaching communities most disproportionately impacted. Providing Aid to the Bahamas After Hurricane Dorian
Hurricane Dorian made landfall in the northwest 
Bahamas as a Category 5 storm on September 1, 2019. As the strongest storm in the history of the Bahamas, it caused catastrophic damage to infrastructure and massive flooding on Abaco and Grand Bahama Islands.
We partnered with local organizations to provide 
P&G products, including Pampers donations, in collaboration with local retailer Price Smart. We also provided emergency aid grants to organizations providing critical services on the island, including International Medical Corps, Water Mission and  World Central Kitchen.
With our support, Global Medic’s Rapid Response 
team delivered family emergency kits to the Bahamas. Kits contained P&G Purifier of Water packets, soap, toothbrushes, toothpaste, solar lights and oral rehydration salt sachets to keep families clean and healthy while they recovered from the disaster.
Matthew 25: Ministries shipped many pallets of aid 
to the Bahamas, which included P&G personal care kits and products from Bounty, Charmin, Mr. Clean, Pampers, Pantene and Tide. Additional product supplies were also provided to communities in the  U.S. flooded by Hurricane Dorian.Disaster Relief
We provided emergency  
aid grants to organizations  
providing critical services  
in the Bahamas.
26
Elazig Earthquake Donations 
The city of Elazig, Turkey, was shocked by a  
6.7 magnitude earthquake on January 24, 2020.  P&G Turkey was one of the first corporate responders to deliver aid to the people and families in need.  Our teams deployed more than 33,000 products  
with the Turkish Red Crescent, helping impacted families in Elazig.
Additionally, one of the 30 Olympic athletes P&G 
Turkey supports as part of the Olympic Moms  project for the Tokyo Olympic Games, Aliye Demirbag, lost her home as a result of the earthquake. We helped cover accommodation expenses for Aliye and her family.  Flooding Support
In August 2019, floods hit the western region of India, impacting and displacing countless families. We provided disaster relief to more than 2,500 families helping with brand donations. We also distributed more than 100,000 Whisper sanitary pads to women and girls impacted by Cyclone Amphan that struck West Bengal in May 2020. Disaster ReliefHelping Out Down Under 
From September 2019 to March 2020, Australia experienced its worst bushfire crisis in decades. It is estimated that the fires destroyed more than 12 million hectares, taking human lives, damaging homes and killing many native animals. Many people suffered from a heavy smoke haze which lasted for months. 
To assist the community and recovery efforts, 
P&G with our partner Foodbank donated more than 100,000 products, including Fairy detergent, Gillette razors, Head & Shoulders shampoo, and Oral-B toothbrushes and toothpaste. Our teams in both Sydney and Melbourne volunteered in the Foodbank warehouses to help distribute the much-needed supplies. We also donated money from our global disaster relief fund to Habitat for Humanity to assist in critical rebuild and recovery projects. The Aussie hair care brand donated more than $100,000 to WWF-Australia and WIRES WildLife Rescue, and Vicks Australia partnered with Direct Relief to donate more than $20,000 to help distribute N-95 masks to assist those exposed to poor air quality and smoke haze.
We provided disaster relief to
2,500+ families
affected by flooding in India.
27
P&G has a long history of supporting 
communities in times of need all around 
the world. Since the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak, P&G has stepped up its commitment to be a force for good and  
has been working with long-standing partner organizations around the globe to provide support to communities, relief agencies and people impacted by this challenging situation.
During these uncertain times, we have 
found ourselves faced with a pandemic that has forced us into an everchanging ‘new normal’ as the situation continues to evolve. While our communities have been through a lot in the past few months, it is important to remember that while many things have changed, one thing has remained the same — P&G’s commitment to protect and support our consumers and our own P&G employee family.Our intent from the beginning of the pandemic has been to ensure a safe and healthy work environment for our employees, and to continue to serve our consumers and the communities  where we operate.
In the next few pages, we will highlight 
some of the contributions made by  
P&G and our brands around the  
globe during this trying time. 
COVID-19 Relief Efforts
SERVING  
CONSUMERSPROTECTING  
P&G PEOPLE
SUPPORTING  
COMMUNITIES
28
Cincinnati 
In our headquarters city, we provided product donations 
and financial support to our local community as we:
• Joined forces with the Greater Cincinnati Foundation, the United Way of Greater Cincinnati and other companies to raise money for food banks, shelters, child and senior services and organizations as part  of the COVID-19 Regional Response Fund. 
• Donated monetary gift cards from Olay to the local United Way for distribution to local agencies. 
• Continued our work with our Disaster Relief partner, Matthew 25: Ministries, to get brands such as Crest, Gillette, Pampers, Secret and Tide to those impacted by the pandemic.
• Sponsored the Cincy Card Connection designed  to help support local businesses in partnership  with the Cincinnati Center City Development Corporation (3CDC). 
• Donated thousands of medical masks to four local hospitals, the City of Mason’s public service department, multiple emergency teams and a police department through our P&G Chinese employee community and their partnership with the Greater Cincinnati Chinese Association (GCCA).Puerto Rico 
P&G Puerto Rico provided hospital workers and their families the essentials they needed to take care of their personal health and hygiene and keep their homes clean and healthy through significant product donations. Ace laundry pods, Bounty paper towels, Crest toothpaste, Gillette and Venus razors, Head & Shoulders shampoo, and Secret deodorant were distributed to hospital workers through the American Red Cross, Puerto Rico Chapter. 
P&G Puerto Rico delivered a message of gratitude, 
appreciation and motivation to hospital workers and other emergency first responders through an inspiring online video featuring young professional Puerto Rican athletes, including four Olympians. 
Canada  
P&G Canada donated millions in cash and hygiene  kits to Canadian families and communities in need through shelters and foodbanks and donated product to frontline health care workers in appreciation of  their efforts. 
We made hand sanitizer and masks at our Brockville 
and Belleville sites for employee use and for donation to local communities. This included a donation to Ornge, a provider of air ambulance and medical transport services in Ontario.COVID-19 Relief Efforts —  
North AmericaWhen We’re Out, It’s ‘Masks  
On, Ohio’
During COVID-19, P&G leveraged our marketing 
expertise to support public health measures to help flatten the curve and slow the spread of the virus. One key initiative was “Masks On, Ohio,” a campaign created for the state where our headquarters is located.
Chief Brand Officer Marc Pritchard enlisted 
advertising agency partner Grey to create assets, such as outdoor advertising, social media visuals and radio ads, to remind Ohioans about the importance of wearing masks.
We then joined forces with state and local 
government contacts and businesses to share the assets as broadly as possible with a very direct message: While we wait for a cure for COVID-19, wearing masks is one we can help protect ourselves, family, friends and neighbors.
PUERTO RICO GRATITUDE VIDEO  
29
Personal Health Care 
The North America Personal Health Care family of 
brands made significant contributions to the health and well-being of people around the world through our support of several relief organizations. In March, the Vicks brand donated $1 million to Direct Relief. These funds were used to equip frontline health care workers with protective gear and provided medicines and equipment needed to treat ICU patients. In April, Vicks joined the family of P&G brands who supported Global Citizen’s “One World: Together at Home,” a virtual event benefiting the World Health Organization’s COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund and regional relief organizations. In addition to tune-in social posts, Vicks leveraged their social channels to raise awareness of Direct Relief’s work in support of frontline health care workers. Vicks also raised awareness of the “Altisimo! Live” Music and Pop Culture Festival with tune-in posts and donated $50,000 to the Farmworkers’ COVID-19 Pandemic Relief Fund.In May, P&G’s digestive wellness brands supported the virtual comedy show, “COVID is No Joke,” benefitting Americares. Pepto Bismol donated $25,000 to Americares after sponsoring the “Pepto Cares Song & Dance Challenge.” Pepto Bismol closed out the fiscal year by donating $50,000 to Feeding America and $50,000 to the National Restaurant Association Educational Foundation. 
Charmin and Bounty 
To meet the spike in demand for toilet paper, our Family Care Team has been hard at work, and our responsive workforce took incredible ownership of the business. Our team in the Albany, Georgia, plant, with significant support from teammates from the Cape Girardeau and Mehoopany plants, started up idle equipment in just two weeks — a process that typically takes months — to make sure consumers could find what they needed on store shelves.COVID-19 Relief Efforts —  
North America
Tide Cleaners Provided Loads of 
Hope  for Frontline Responders
Tide and Tide Cleaners franchisees created a 
program in the midst of COVID-19 to provide free dry cleaning and laundry services to frontline workers and their immediate family members affected by the extreme working conditions of the pandemic. The effort began in late March and within weeks, Project Hope was operating in more 26 cities. By the end of June, Project Hope served more than 104,000 frontline responder visits, cleaning more than 1.8 million garments — all for free and giving our frontline responders some of the hope they  give us every day.
Project Hope, by Tide and  
Tide Cleaners, served more  
than 104,000 frontline  
responder visits.
The Vicks  
brand donated 
$1 million
to Direct Relief.
30
Pampers 
In North America, Pampers recognized the impact 
COVID-19 safety measures would have on new parents and their babies. In addition to the diaper donations we make year-round, the brand wanted to do more through its Bright Beginnings program. It’s critically important for parents-to-be to feel ready and prepared for their new arrivals, but many in-person childbirth education classes were canceled in early 2020. Thus, Pampers announced they would provide free online video classes for expecting parents. Hospital restrictions also made it more difficult for new parents to stay with their littlest fighters in Newborn Intensive Care Units (NICUs). To keep families and babies connected, Pampers provided $400,000 in technology grants to eligible hospital NICUs across North America. With the money, NICUs purchased technology solutions that allow parents and families to talk, read and sing to their infants in the NICU, even when they can’t be physically together. Safeguard
In June, Safeguard announced a hygiene education and product donation initiative to help reach the estimated 48 million kids under the age of 12 who were reentering playgrounds, parks, recreational facilities and schools in the U.S. Safeguard committed to donate $10 million to promote handwashing habits among kids and provide more underserved communities and families with free hygiene products through organizations like Save the Children, Americares and Feeding America.
Actress, entrepreneur and new mother, Shay Mitchell, 
advocated the importance of instilling hand hygiene habits at home starting at an early age. Family physician, Dr. Jen Caudle, joined the initiative to help parents understand how to follow CDC guidelines and advise on how children can safely remain active.
Save the Children serves as a catalyst for providing 
basic health and hygiene resources like hand soap to U.S. communities in need. Cosmic Kids Yoga and other social media personalities participated in the initiative, reaching children and families to introduce an interactive handwashing routine in the form of a song.COVID-19 Relief Efforts —  
North America
SAFEGUARD HANDWASHING SONG  
Pampers provided free 
online video classes for 
expecting parents.
31
In Europe, P&G’s donations totaled more 
than $25 million in financial aid and 
product. P&G Europe helped protect the dignity of vulnerable people by providing financial aid and millions of P&G products to families in need, the homeless and the elderly. We joined forces with relief partners, such as the Red Cross Red Crescent movement and food banks, donated food baskets during Ramadan and Easter meals to the homeless and helped fund temporary emergency centers.
We found solutions to keep essential 
workers healthy and safe, commissioning lines at our plants to start production of masks and repurposing some perfume-making equipment to manufacture surface disinfectant and hand sanitizer — for our people and partners as well as for hospitals, health authorities and relief organizations. We showed solidarity with frontline heroes, donating razors to health workers, offering hygiene products to health care services, as well as support for vital lifesaving work and medical supplies. We used our voice to thank them and joined the #keepclapping campaign on World Red Cross Red Crescent Day on May 8, 2020.
In the next few pages, we will highlight  
some of the country-specific efforts. 
COVID-19 Relief Efforts — Europe
#KEEPCLAPPING  
32
Bulgaria 
P&G and our brands Ariel, Fairy and Always made 
financial and product donations to the Red Cross Bulgaria. The donation supported several initiatives aiming to help mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country, including protective equipment for medical staff. The campaign was implemented under the hashtag #StrongerTogether.
Czech Republic 
To combat COVID-19, the government of the Czech Republic introduced a mandatory use of face masks and recommended frequent use of hand sanitizer. However, there was a shortage of masks and hand sanitizer in the local community.
The P&G team at our Fabric and Home Care plant in 
Rakona, Czech Republic, quickly started in-house production of disinfectants and organized on-site and in-home production of textile face masks to help. These much-needed items were provided to professionals at the frontline in local hospitals, ambulances, police offices and local doctors’ offices, as well as at-risk populations in retirement homes, foster homes, elderly care services, and prisons. In partnership with our dish bottle supplier, the Rakona plant also donated empty bottles to a company producing disinfectant that had run out. France
P&G Amiens plant donated thousands of masks to health authorities, as well as mobilizing production capabilities to provide sanitizer. The site also donated hundreds of kits composed of masks, gloves, Mr. Clean sanitizer and hydroalcoholic gel produced on site to health facilities, nursing homes and homes for the elderly. The Blois plant donated PPE to local health authorities and medical centers, along with lab coats, hygiene caps and gloves to hospitals. 
France and Benelux communities donated more than 
100,000 P&G products per week to our long-standing partners, Dons Solidaires, Agence du Don en Nature, as well as to the French Red Cross, hospitals and local public and health institutions.
We committed funds to the French Red Cross to 
support its actions and enable the volunteers and staff to continue their essential work on the frontline of the fight against COVID-19 and also through a call for donations — #EnsembleaveclaCroixRouge (“Together with the Red Cross”). 
P&G France has been partnering with SOS Villages 
d’Enfants (SOS Children Villages) since 2014 with  yearly cash donations. During the pandemic, we made an extra cash donation to help with the educational and emotional support for hundreds of children.Germany, Austria and Switzerland
In Germany, we created the #GemeinsamStaerker (#StrongerTogether) program that brought together health care, home care, beauty and parenting advisors to offer consumers help and advice during uncertain times. With Nina Ruge, German journalist, TV presenter and anchor, as moderator and our team of experts, we wanted to provide answers for the people in Germany, Austria and Switzerland that are of practical use to everyone. The ad-free live talk focused on reliable information on hygiene, children and family life, fitness and mental health.
P&G partnered with journalist  
Nina Ruge to help German 
consumers be #StrongerTogether.COVID-19 Relief Efforts — Europe
33
Greece 
P&G and our brands Always, Ariel and Fairy provided 
financial support to the Ministry of Health for equipping intensive care units of hospitals, as well as supporting tens of thousands of people with personal health, hygiene and household products. Medical personnel received personal hygiene and laundry products, and we helped people at home with everyday essentials. For the homeless, Fairy delivered meals to many in partnership with Solidarity Center of Athens, and  
Ariel assisted by offering free laundry. 
Hungary 
Budapest’s biggest sports arena was used by the Hungarian Red Cross as a warehouse during the pandemic. P&G’s support arrived in the earliest stage of the response, as the staff our Budapest General Offices and two local plants donated brands like Always, Ariel, Jar, Lenor, Naturella, Pampers and Tampax to local partners, including the Hungarian Red Cross, UNICEF, Habitat for Humanity and hospitals in the area.Italy 
Our people at the plant in Gattatico volunteered four free hours of additional work to produce extra cases of Mr. Proper with bleach, which was then donated to local hospitals. The Pampers team developed an educational music video to help parents teach their children the proper handwashing technique, a necessary first line of defense against the virus spread. Poland 
P&G Poland donated products to the Polish Red Cross, the Association of Nurses and Midwives and numerous hospitals and care institutions. We financed the equipment for a temporary epidemic hospital, helped with the operation of a help line for nurses and paramedics and purchased PPE for medical personnel. 
In addition, two plants in Poland launched production 
of PPE in record time. The Aleksandrów Plant celebrated the fastest new product production ever, launching manufacturing of sanitizer. The Targówek plant installed and started operating a mask production  
line in a record time. The resulting sanitizer and masks were shared with employees, P&G locations in Poland and our local communities. 
DOBBIAM LAVAR LE MANI  Two plants in Poland, Aleksandrów 
and Targówek, launched production  
of PPE in record time.COVID-19 Relief Efforts — Europe
34
Portugal
P&G Portugal donated cash and products to the Red 
Cross to support health care professionals and medical centers — including tens of thousands of products from brands such as Dodot, Evax, Fairy, Gillette, Head & Shoulders, Pantene and Tampax. We also helped promote awareness and donations for the Red Cross fundraising campaign #EuAjudoQuemAjuda (#IHelpWhoHelps) aimed to support health professionals and hospital units through the financing of health initiatives, projects and operations, as well as humanitarian aid developed to prevent and control COVID-19. As one of the biggest advertisers in the Portuguese market, we also gave advertising slots  to promote the campaign #EuAjudoQuemAjuda. 
Fairy partnered with the Portuguese Food Bank 
special network created for this relief period (Food Emergency Network) and the biggest media group in Portugal (Media Capital) to create the initiative, “With Fairy, Help Cannot Stop.” This campaign lasted 11 days and consisted of a kickoff TV show with spokespeople from Food Bank, Fairy and the ambassadors of the campaign, as well as a strong digital element, many radio spots and a synchronized instore execution. The campaign raised more than $230,000 with the Fairy brand contributing another $50,000.
Romania 
P&G Romania and our brands Always, Ariel and Fairy provided financial support, personal health and hygiene and household products to Red Cross Romania. The Company supported frontline medical staff by providing the local health system with funds to purchase the medical equipment needed to fight the pandemic. Part of the donation supported the Emergency Hosptial in Ploiesti at the frontline of the pandemic fight. In parallel, P&G products have been donated to those most impacted. The campaign was implemented under the hashtag #StrongerTogether.
Russia 
P&G Russia activated our COVID-19 disaster relief program under one corporate umbrella “Care to Every Home.” Brands designed and executed initiatives to help the local community. Head & Shoulders launched a social campaign, #ApartButUnited, to encourage people to stay in touch with one another. The campaign started with an online concert by Head & Shoulders ambassador Basta, who sang from his home, resulting in tens of thousands of people tuning in. Gillette’s plant in St. Petersburg — the only major razor manufacturing site in Russia — held a “charity shift.” All products during that shift — 500,000 disposable razors — along with 500,000 donated by the brand, were sent to medical staff across Russia via our NGO partner Foodbank. P&G Russia also donated substantial quantities of products to help support basic needs for people across different regions in the country. 
We gave advertising 
slots to promote the 
#EuAjudoQuemAjuda 
campaign, which 
supported health 
professionals and 
hospital units.
COVID-19 Relief Efforts — Europe
35
Serbia
P&G and our brands Always, Ariel and Fairy announced 
donations to Red Cross Serbia in financial support,  
and in personal health and hygiene and household products. The Company supported local communities by providing funds to purchase food packs for  
those in need. We also donated everyday P&G  
product essentials.Spain
P&G Spain and our brands provided financial aid to the Spanish Red Cross Plan “CRUZ ROJA RESPONDE” to help construct temporary emergency medical centers during the health emergency. Our brands, such as Ausonia, Dodot, Evax, Gillette, Head & Shoulders, Old Spice, Oral-B and Pantene were included in personal care kits distributed by the Spanish Red Cross to provide families and those in need with basic goods. 
With the Spanish Red Cross, their volunteers and 
our sponsorship, we created a service — “Tu farmacia más cerca” — to deliver products to those in need. Pharmacies and users from all over Spain could request the shipment of pharmaceutical products  and medicines through the Red Cross. From there, a network of volunteers delivered supplies to the corresponding homes. 
Health care workers also received help from P&G 
brands that were sent directly to hospitals. Olay helped workers take care of their skin damaged by the use of glasses and masks, Hair Care and Old Spice allowed workers to have a shower before going back home, and Fairy helped workers clean their protective goggles.  
P&G Spain and our  
brands provided financial  
aid to the Spanish Red  
Cross RESPONDE Plan.COVID-19 Relief Efforts — Europe
36
Turkey, Caucasus and Central  
Asian Republics
P&G Turkey, Caucasus and Central Asian Republics 
(CCAR) has been actively working during the COVID-19 outbreak to ensure that people who stayed in a temporary quarantine residence had access to necessary personal care products and the comforts of home. Working with the Turkish Ministry of Youth and Sports, we delivered packs of Ariel and bottles of Fairy and Flash to the Turkish Red Crescent to be distributed to the residences. We also worked with the Turkish Red Crescent to provide P&G multi-pack kits to those living in quarantine. Through these efforts, we reached thousands of people staying in the quarantine dorms.
Together with the Food Rescue Association, Fairy 
created the “Don’t Waste” project to finance basic  food needs and donate Fairy products during the month of Ramadan.
Metro Grossmarket Turkey started the “For My 
Small Business” program to aid small and mid-size businesses that were shut down due to COVID-19.  P&G Turkey donated one cleaning pack per business  to support this movement. We also launched the “Stepping Up For Hope, Under the Same Roof” project to support families whose lives have been adversely affected. Within the scope of the project, with the cooperation of the Turkish Red Crescent, we delivered Hope 2020 hygiene packages consisting of basic hygiene, health and personal care products to tens of thousands of families across the country. The same initiative was then applied in Azerbaijan. 
Finally, our Gebze Plant workers voluteered their time 
to increase production.  The result was the donation of thousands of bottles of Fairy and packs of Ariel to the Turkish Red Crescent to benefit the neighborhoods in the Gebze community.
Our Gebze Plant 
donated thousands 
of bottles of Fairy and 
packs of Ariel to the 
Turkish Red Crescent. 
COVID-19 Relief Efforts — Europe
37
UK
In the UK, we have stepped up to help those impacted 
by the pandemic through various brand and business unit contributions. Here are just a few of the initiatives we supported:
• We donated more than $1 million in products from brands such as Fairy, Gillette and Pampers to our  long-standing partner, In Kind Direct. 
• Our Fabric Care team donated 3,000 units of laundry products to Great Ormond Street Hospital to help  keep health care workers’ uniforms clean.
• Gillette, after learning health care workers were being asked to shave for their safety to allow a closer fit of respiratory masks, established a free donation mechanic to NHS staff in the UK and Health Service Executives in Ireland, donating many razors as  a result. 
• UK manufacturing and R&D plants manufactured much needed hand sanitizer and face shields, donating tens of thousands of liters of hand sanitizer and more than one million face masks. 
• We transformed our end of year celebration this year  allowing us to support three charities, Macmillan, Refuge and Calm, who each received a grant of more than $45,000.
• Our site teams expanded grants and donated more than $130,000 in total to local charities. • Always and Tampax donated hundreds of thousands of products to frontline workers at NHS Nightingale hospitals.
• Our hair care brands, Olay and Oral-B collectively donated almost $1 million worth of products to frontline workers at NHS trusts across the country.
• Our brands created unique ways to help, such as home haircut tips from Braun, healthy handwashing habits from Pampers and the British Skin Foundation, encouragement to Bring Nature In and support of the Global Citizen “One World: Together  at Home” campaign from Herbal Essences and  their ambassadors.
Ukraine 
P&G Ukraine teamed up with Caritas Ukraine Charitable Foundation to benefit the elderly with the “Care to Every Home” program. Caritas volunteers picked up their laundry and returned it clean, thereby minimizing the need for outside contact. By using brands like Ariel, Fairy, Lenora, Mr. Proper and Tide, we worked to make this service useful and effective. P&G Ukraine also helped the Ukrainian Red Cross set up a hotline to inform Ukrainians about the pandemic, giving them useful information on how to protect themselves. 
COVID-19 Relief Efforts — Europe
38
COVID-19 Relief Efforts —  
Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa
India 
P&G India launched its COVID-19 response and relief 
program, P&G Suraksha India, to support consumers and communities. Suraksha is the Hindi word for “protecting.” Through our efforts, we supported government and NGOs via product donations and PPE, leveraged the voice of our brands to create safety and hygiene awareness, utilized our reach with in-store counselors and direct-to-consumer capabilities to connect with consumers to raise awareness about hygienic practices to help avoid the spread of COVID-19, raised safety and hygiene standards across our end-to-end supply chain and provided additional financial support to partners for their vulnerable employees. 
In partnership with the government and relief 
organizations, we distributed Whisper sanitary pads to women and girls from underprivileged and migrant communities, childcare institutions, frontline healthcare workers and sanitation workers across the country. We partnered with NGOs to distribute Tide detergents to thousands of health workers nationwide. Vicks India, through its #ShowWeCare initiative, donated $100,000 to HelpAge India to provide rations and hygiene kits to disadvantaged elderly people. The initiative also included advertising to drive community awareness about the importance of physical distancing, not emotional distancing. 
We extended our support to migrant and 
underprivileged families in our neighboring communities by distributing thousands of grocery  kits. In partnership with NITI Aayog, we supported  self-employed women entrepreneurs in Gujarat, Rajasthan and Punjab and helped restart their businesses.
We also extended our support to the barber 
community who were among those greatly impacted by the lockdown through Gillette Barber Suraksha Program. The program aimed to educate, protect and provide resources to them as they return to business. 
On Mother’s Day, we launched the #ThankYouMa  
(Ma meaning mother in Hindi) to thank mothers who, 
irrespective of distance or circumstance, continue to care about the smallest of things in the lives of their children. The campaign featured stories of real-life mothers who help their children with laundry, shopping for essentials, ensuring personal hygiene, checking on their meals and more — all while taking care of the big things on the frontlines of the pandemic.
Through our Suraksha Circle program, we shared 
our learnings and best practices on the highest standards of health, hygiene and safety measures at manufacturing sites with others in the industry. 
P&G employees in India donated to the PM Cares Fund 
to support India’s fight against COVID-19. In addition to the in-kind donations, P&G India also made financial contributions to the state governments to support their response efforts. 
We launched the #ThankYouMa 
campaign to thank mothers who 
help their children amidst being 
on the frontline of the pandemic.
39
Indonesia
P&G Indonesia delivered essential supplies for children 
and families around the country. The team shared hundreds of packages that consisted of rice, food supplies, disinfectants, masks and P&G products. These supplies were sourced from the local community, helping to keep businesses running while in turn delivering a care package to families in need. We also provided PPE kits for the medical frontline workers. The Personal Health Care team in Indonesia provided thousands of care kits to employees of our distributor partner with Sangobion
® (iron supplement) as a part  
of these packages.
Japan 
The Shiga Plant, home to the production of SK-II, was able to do a quick start up and begin producing critically needed masks. With production up and running, masks were initially donated to employees and their families while masks were difficult to find in Japan. Mask donations have expanded to the government, business partners and contractors at  our P&G sites. 
Philippines 
Medical frontline workers have been the unsung heroes amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. They work around the clock as they risk their own lives to care for the sick, while many others are encouraged to stay  at home. What is left unsaid, however, is that they are also real people with families waiting for them. Through the “Frontliner’s Sacrifice” online video, P&G Philippines showed how we can be a #ForceForGood as we #CareForFrontliners and encourage the public  to do its part to help them come home soon.
The video captured real clips and footages from 
frontline workers and in just 48 hours, the video received one million online views and the total continues to grow today. We are inspired to see our consumers join us in sharing the gratitude.
We also launched the #PhilippinesCares campaign 
founded on the idea that care goes beyond the physical touch we give. Linked with this campaign, Vicks donated hundreds of cases of Vicks inhaler to the Cabuyao City health office.
Safeguard Philippines supported the nation’s health 
care frontline workers by teaming with the Philippine Red Cross to create the P&G Safeguard’s BayaniHands Project. Coined from the Filipino term ‘bayanihan,’ or the communal unity of working together to achieve a common goal, the brand encouraged Filipinos to become everyday heroes by embracing the power of safe hands and to come together as a nation helping each other. The BayaniHands Project encourages consumers to support the Red Cross frontline workers’ efforts by donating online through an e-commerce platform. 
Safeguard launched the campaign with a heart-
warming online video that tells the story of Filipino bayanihan in these unprecedented times. Shot entirely while adhering to Enhanced Community Quarantine (ECQ) protocols, the team pieced together a story that stems from the spirit of bayanihan with clips shot by different filmmakers from across the region.
P&G Safeguard’s BayaniHands  
Project for the Red Cross  
encouraged consumers to  
support frontline workers.A FRONTLINER’S SACRIFICE  COVID-19 Relief Efforts —  
Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa
SAFEGUARD BAYANIHANDS  
40
Singapore
We have donated thousands of care packs to 
vulnerable families and frontline workers and hundreds of sets of cleaning products to social service agencies and preschools. We have also launched a fundraiser with each dollar matched by the Company for the National Council for Social Services. In partnership with the Singapore government, we extended our support to migrant workers and helped curb further transmission of the virus by distributing hundreds of thousands of care packs. Employees prepared care packages and were joined by Ms. Josephine Teo, Minister for Manpower and Second Minister for Home Affairs and Ms. Low Yen Ling, Mayor of South West District and Senior Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of Manpower and Ministry of Education. Oral Care also donated products for inclusion in the P&G Care Packs to migrant workers.
United Arab Emirates
With employees juggling home responsibilities as well as work responsibilities, we adapted quickly to empower them to succeed. We established “No Meeting Zones” so our people would have increased flexibility. We helped employees whose homes were not set up with the tools required to work from home full time, providing them necessary IT tools and ergonomic furniture to work from home effectively. We also stepped up to provide support for 
communities and relief agencies under our Protect 
Our Heroes COVID-19 Relief Mission. We expanded 
our manufacturing facilities to produce PPE for 
donation to organizations supporting frontline workers 
across Middle East and Africa, as well as a donation 
of Safeguard antibacterial soaps and handwashing 
stations in Nigeria. We also donated products like 
Always, Fairy, Gillette and Safeguard to frontline relief 
workers and communities in need across the region. 
Vietnam 
P&G Vietnam closely worked with Vietnam Red Cross and People’s Committee of Binh Duong to provide thousands of Safeguard soaps and handwashing liquid to support communities and people in need, as well as organizing hygiene training courses. We also supported the Vietnamese Fatherland Front Central Committee with cash donations, PPE for the medical frontline workers and P&G personal hygiene kits that included Ariel, Gillette, Head & Shoulders and Safeguard products for those staying in temporary government-provided quarantine residences. 
COVID-19 Relief Efforts —   
Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa
41
Nigeria 
In Nigeria, we committed to providing more than 
$250,000 worth of humanitarian aid to support the Nigerian government in combating COVID-19. This aid included hygiene products, handwashing stations and PPE for frontline health care workers in all 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. As part of this contribution, we also launched a nationwide media awareness campaign to promote handwashing amongst Nigerians.South Africa
P&G South Africa stepped up during COVID-19 and donated $950,000 in cash and product to various organizations, including UNICEF, Department of Women, Youth & Persons with Disabilities and the Mamas Alliance. We also expanded our Always Keeping Girls in School program to not only provide young girls with access to sanitary pads but also food items and educational materials because we believe that nothing should get in the way of girls’ education — not even COVID-19.
Kenya
In Kenya, we provided the government with more than $60,000 worth of PPE to help curb the spread of COVID-19. Across our Africa expansion markets, we provided the governments of Uganda, Cote d’Ivoire and Ghana with humanitarian intervention valued  at more than $35,000.
P&G South Africa donated  
$950,000 in cash and product  
to various organizations.
We provided the  
government in Kenya with
$60,000+
worth of PPE to help curb  
the spread of COVID-19.COVID-19 Relief Efforts —  
Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa
42
Health care workers in China have been at 
the forefront of fighting the COVID-19 virus, 
forging new directions for others around the globe to follow. We were among the earliest donors, and we made our donations in waves to answer the evolving needs in a timely way at the frontlines. 
Our P&G China team worked with long-time 
partners and provided product donations and financial aid worth millions of dollars. Our brands such as Always Discreet, Ariel, Braun, Crest, Gillette, Head & Shoulders, Olay, Oral-B, Pampers, Safeguard, SK-II and Whisper actively supported relief efforts and ensured continued access to products. The China team contributed to our vital P&G partners, the Wuhan Municipal Charity Foundation, the China Youth Development Foundation and One Foundation. Ariel and Safeguard donated thousands of packages of laundry liquid, liquid hand soap and body wash sanitizers to hospitals, fire departments and communities. Head & Shoulders and Olay donated shampoo and skin care products, while Crest and Oral-B donated toothpaste and brushes to mobile hospitals in Wuhan. SK-II funded ventilators, while Always Discreet and Whisper donated sanitary products to support female doctors and nurses. Braun and Gillette provided shavers and razors for male medical workers. 
In addition, the Pampers team reacted 
quickly to help the kids of health care workers on the frontline, donating diapers and wipes. SK-II
In support of the global relief and recovery efforts 
around COVID-19, SK-II announced “WE STAND TOGETHER,” an initiative to support medical professionals and health care workers on the frontlines. It started with a partnership with the China Women’s Development Foundation and a donation of more than $290,000 and included ventilators and PPE for health care workers in Hubei, China. SK-II “WE STAND TOGETHER” was shared in Times Square, New York City, as a symbol of hope, encouragement and solidarity.
In addition, SK-II pivoted from its Olympics campaign 
“Beauty is No Competition” during the pandemic to share human stories of hope as part of its brand purpose #ChangeDestiny, which seeks to inspire women to overcome pressures and shape their own destiny. SK-II partnered with swimmer Ikee Rikako  who shared her personal journey battling leukemia  and finding strength and resilience in challenging times to give strength to everyone.COVID-19 Relief Efforts —  
Greater China
SK-II partnered with 
swimmer Ikee Rikako who 
shared her personal journey.
43
Helping Our Communities and Our Health 
Care Professionals in Latin America
In Latin America, we focused our efforts on 
serving the most vulnerable communities and supporting frontline health care professionals. We donated more than $2 million worth of PPE to health care institutions and associations. We developed and launched the “Thank You Doctor” video to recognize their heroic efforts with thank you messages directly from our teams. 
Argentina 
P&G Argentina donated millions of products 
to vulnerable communities and people on the frontlines. This was done in conjunction with our key partners — United Way Argentina, Red Cross, Foodbank — and many other NGOs. This was the  most significant contribution, done in record time,  in P&G’s 30-year history in Argentina.
We were part of the most important social program 
in Argentina, #SeamosUno, where we donated our home care products to hundreds of thousands of families. We stepped up to provide much needed product donations, P&G Purifier of Water packets, virtual volunteering hours and financial support to help hundreds of women in vulnerable situations put their sewing skills into practice making face masks. Our brands also supported consumers by offering different activities, such as Pantene working with hair dressers and Pampers helping parents. 
Brazil 
P&G Brazil donated millions of dollars in products, hygiene kits and food baskets to vulnerable communities and frontline professionals. Donations were executed thanks to our strong partnerships with Red Cross, United Way, the São Paulo Government Secretary and Fundação Amazonas Sustentável.
Our brands also supported consumers by offering 
free workshops and courses online. Pampers offered parents ideas on how to play with babies at home during quarantine and an online baby shower platform; Oral-B Professional offered lectures with experts to help dentists with COVID-19 doubts; Downy offered yoga and dance lessons; and Gillette deodorant created a platform to help gym teachers with online classes. In addition, Always and Vicks donated more than $100,000 to support research and innovation in the context of the COVID-19 crisis.COVID-19 Relief Efforts —  
Latin America
Gillette deodorant created  
a platform to help gym teachers  
with online classes.®THANK YOU DOCTOR  
44
Chile 
Through our NGO partner World Vision, P&G Chile 
donated thousands of hygiene and home products kits to health care personnel. The #HéroesSinCapa campaign helped with products from Ace, Always, Gillette, Head & Shoulders, Herbal Essences, Oral-B Pampers and Pantene to family health centers.
We also worked with World Vision on the “Feeding 
Hearts” campaign. The initiative sought to raise funds to support vulnerable households with food boxes. 
In addition, each box had a book and a calendar 
developed by World Vision. The educational material contains suggestions for daily activities that seek  
to help children understand what the virus is and  the importance of maintaining hygiene to avoid  spreading it. 
The Company also participated in the #YoTeCuido 
initiative, led by the Geriatrics Society, that benefitted health professionals. The goal of this program was to help doctors and health personnel from hospital centers across the country through the delivery of Gillette brand face shields and razors. Both donations sought to take care of the personnel who are focused  on safeguarding the health of Chileans.
Colombia 
When Colombia needed to reopen hospitals, we partnered with government institutions and our  trade associations to help. We donated detergent  and shaving products for hospitals. Also, through  the National Food Bank, we donated products to  the elderly and vulnerable population.COVID-19 Relief Efforts —  
Latin America
“We see it as very important to make this 
donation possible, since it is about reaching 
health centers with many difficulties and 
that, at the same time, have the mission 
of serving vulnerable families. It is also 
part of a global campaign by World Vision 
called #HéroeAnónimo, which highlights 
worldwide the work of all the people behind 
an emergency, coinciding with that of P&G.”
—  J ohanna Montero, Country Manager  
of World Vision Chile
45
Head & Shoulders #CabezaEnAlto
Head & Shoulders decided to shift its campaign, 
#HeadHeldHigh, to support Ecuador and Panama health care professionals (HCPs) during the COVID-19 crisis. Through social media, Head & Shoulders invited its consumers to send positive messages to HCPs in those countries and invited local artists for virtual live concerts to continue driving awareness of the campaign. 
For each consumer post with the #CabezaEnAlto 
hashtag, Head & Shoulders donated PPE to HCPs. Thanks to so many supportive messages from consumers, we exceeded our goal and donated  more than 2,000 pieces of PPE in Panama and  1,400 in Ecuador. 
In Mexico, Head & Shoulders helped by donating the 
equivalent of more than 1,300 protective kits for HCPs through our disaster relief partner CADENA and invited consumers to join and donate a peso to match each one donated through the program. Mexicans helped us raise enough money to buy approximately 330 more protective kits and protect more than 1,630 health  care workers.  Peru 
During the 2019 Pan American Games, the Villa Panamericana in Peru was home to hero athletes. Due to the pandemic, it became home to COVID-19 patients and heroic health care workers. As the situation in the country became critical, the accommodations had to be adjusted quickly but required many resources to work properly. To help, we gathered our brand teams and in less than 48 hours we provided three months worth of hygiene and cleaning products from Ariel, Gillette, Head & Shoulders, Old Spice, Oral B, Pantene and Venus.
Head & Shoulders donated PPE  
to HCPs and shared supportive 
messages from consumers.#HEADHELDHIGH  
In Peru, we donated 
products from brands 
like Ariel, Gillette,  
Head & Shoulders,  
Old Spice, Oral B, 
Pantene and Venus.
HÉROES EN MÉXICO  COVID-19 Relief Efforts —  
Latin America
46
P&G’s Habitat for Humanity Partnership
P&G has worked with Habitat for Humanity around 
the world for more than a decade. Throughout that time, the foundation of our partnership has been the generous spirit of our employees, who embrace Habitat’s mission of bringing people together to build homes, communities and hope. By partnering with the homebuyers, Habitat uses shelter to help build strength, stability and self-reliance, creating a hand  up to a better life. 
Many plans for our employees to help build homes 
were canceled due to the pandemic. However, before the pandemic hit, we brought to life a number of important projects in Brazil, Indonesia, Kenya, Mexico, Romania, Thailand, Vietnam and our global headquarters in Cincinnati. We also continued to support Habitat financially. 
P&G’s partnership has helped sustain Habitat for 
Humanity of Greater Cincinnati through the pandemic and has helped continue a legacy of racial justice and inclusion. Habitat was founded on a deep belief of racial collaboration and equal opportunity for homeownership, and its work continues to address longstanding inequities. 
Habitat homeowner Kiki exemplifies the families  
whose lives are improved through P&G’s support. 
A mother of four, Kiki works at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center. She is most thankful for her new home because her youngest daughter, a 1-year-old with health issues, will struggle to learn to do things like walk on her own. Kiki wanted a home with a first-floor bathroom and bedroom to make caring for her daughter easier. She now has a home that meets all of her children’s needs and is looking forward to raising her “miracle baby” in the new home with her siblings.
In Thailand, P&G engaged the local community and 
Habitat for Humanity to create a new house made from plastic waste. Employees teamed up with local government, teachers and students to clean a local beach. The plastic waste collected was added to  more than 10 tons of material to be upcycled into pellets used to build a house. The intent was to  help the local community and the environment,  while educating children on the importance of sustainability. We also partnered with Habitat for Humanity in Kenya to build a shelter for economically disadvantaged girls at high risk of gender-based violence in rural Kenya. The building provides a home to many girls who use the shelter as a safe place to learn and pursue their dreams. The community, including the girls and their parents, elders and government representatives, commissioned the facility last year.
Habitat for Humanity
47
Helping Families Thrive in P&G’s Backyard
United Way of Greater Cincinnati, with P&G’s strong 
financial and volunteer support, brings together resources to tackle deep-rooted problems throughout Greater Cincinnati. United Way changes systems and creates new models of support, achieving results no one entity can achieve on its own. United Way’s core efforts help families meet their basic needs and achieve financial stability, pursue quality education opportunities and access services promoting strong physical and mental health. Last year alone, United Way handled 136,000 requests for food, housing and other services through its 211 resource and referral line. The organization’s work led to nearly 2,000 children enrolling in quality early childhood education programs, more than 10,000 individuals accessing regular health care and almost 10,000 families maintaining stable housing for at least a year. P&G, along with our employees and retirees, made the single largest contribution to the 2019 Cincinnati United Way Campaign, nearly $10 million, of all Cincinnati workplace giving campaigns. Just as important, our employees volunteer, serve on United Way-related boards and provide critical advice and counsel. This year, P&G CEO David Taylor is leading United Way’s annual campaign, promising to help the community recover and revitalize from COVID-19. 
Flying High
Arlene has a rare form of cancer, and she needs to travel hundreds of miles to Boston for her treatments.  In May 2020, due to COVID-19, this journey quickly became more complicated. That’s when P&G’s Flight Operations Team, with the help of Corporate Angel Network, arranged for Arlene to fly to Boston roundtrip on a private P&G jet.
Arlene appreciated the lift. “I was treated like a VIP. 
The kindness and thoughtfulness of the flight crew, physical comfort, cleanliness, sense of security in the aircraft and the speed of trip was well beyond anything I had experienced previously in any form of travel in my lifetime. This experience is especially valuable in my world of complete uncertainty, always achy feeling with other less-than-desirable physical feelings from these chemical treatment effects.” 
Since 1989, P&G has partnered with Corporate Angel 
Network to provide private air travel for cancer patients like Arlene. Canada
As the kick-off to our P&G Gives Back employee engagement campaign, P&G Canada hosted our third annual Park Clean-Up event. Hundreds of Toronto employees cleaned up a local park, which included removing invasive species and planting native wildflower and grasses to improve biodiversity in the region and help restore essential wildlife habitat.
Canada employees also worked with our longstanding 
partner Global Medic and helped pack more than 50,000 personal hygiene kits that are distributed to Canadians in need at food banks, shelters and other community organizations.Regional Impact — North America
We are United Way’s single  
largest contributor with nearly
$10 million
donated in 2019.
48
2020 Cincinnati Music Festival
P&G was proud to continue our sponsorship of the 
Cincinnati Music Festival (CMF) in 2020, and the festival didn’t skip a beat with the #FeelsLikeCMF Virtual Weekend Experience, despite having to postpone the in-person event to 2021 to be mindful of health and safety during the pandemic. The innovative, engaging and free virtual weekend experience was available on the CMF website for all to enjoy from the comfort of home. It focused on celebration, community and local impact to bring people together through music. Featuring music from Triiibe, Aprina Johnson, Regina Belle, DJ DNICE and more, the #FeelsLikeCMF virtual experience helped uplift spirits during uncertain times. A digital program booklet was created with a letter from Shelly McNamara, Chief Equality and Inclusion Officer, and ads from P&G’s Olay and My Black is Beautiful brands, as well as our Supplier Diversity program. Also, P&G’s Take on Race videos “The Talk,” “The Choice” and the Ohio “Masks On” campaign were aired during the weekend. As one of the largest music festivals in the United States for the past 58 years, the Cincinnati Music Festival has been a staple in Cincinnati, especially the African American community, and the diversity it brings enhances the fabric of the city and its culture overall. The national support of the festival each year creates tremendous economic impact by benefitting local businesses and helping create new jobs for those in our community.  The festival also helped to bring awareness to organizations that support the African American community and to drive commerce to Black-owned businesses and restaurants in a time when support in this community is needed. P&G also partnered with ArtsWave to create the CMF Outdoor Museum as a new feature to this year’s virtual event. The CMF Outdoor Museum was an outdoor public art installation featuring works from 15 artists of color,  all focused on the themes of community, unity,  music and celebration. By bringing this event to  life, organizers hoped to stay focused on the fight  for racial equality, while highlighting the need for  joy and positivity during challenging times. As a  result of all creative efforts, more than 20,000  viewers tuned in to the show throughout the entire CMF Virtual Weekend, spanning an impressive  39 states nationwide. 
Regional Impact — North America
The festival focused 
on the fight for 
racial equality, while 
highlighting the need for 
joy and positivity during 
challenging times.
49
Product Sales Help Provide Shelter  
for Families in Austria
In honor of Mother’s Day, P&G and retail partner BIPA 
partnered together to support the Caritas #wirtun initiative. Through product sales of Ariel, Gillette, Oral-B, Pampers, Pantene and Venus in BIPA stores and online, consumers raised money that benefitted homeless mothers and children staying in Caritas homes in Austria. With increasing demand for sleeping places in Caritas facilities, the funds supported renovation of rooms and expanded the range of psychological support for women returning to work.
In addition, P&G made an in-kind donation, providing 
Caritas tens of thousands of face masks and thousands of liters of hand sanitizers produced at our plants. Building Inclusive Playgrounds in Germany
The idea of “A Piece of Happiness” or “Stück zum Glück” started in April 2018 with a program that helps build inclusive playgrounds. It reached a major milestone this year with total donations exceeding one million euros — a year earlier than expected. Donations come from the joint fundraising campaign sponsored by P&G, REWE and Aktion Mensch. 
Many children with disabilities are limited in where 
they can play as a result of their disability. Through this special program and thanks to the support of many REWE customers, “Stück zum Glück” has implemented 23 inclusive playground projects in Germany with  plans for four more to be built in 2020.With every purchase of a P&G product, including brands such as Always, Ariel, Oral-B and Pampers, REWE customers throughout Germany are supporting the project. 
“It is important to us to maintain the playgrounds and 
sports facilities that we build together with REWE and Aktion Mensch in the long term. Our goal is to support the children’s future in the best possible way,” said Astrid Teckentrup, Senior VP Sales of P&G. Regional Impact — Europe
“ W e are very grateful for the reliable support 
of strong and committed partners from 
the business world. Together with P&G and 
BIPA customers, we are giving hope and 
confidence to children and their mothers  
in need.”
—  K laus Schwertner, Caritas Secretary 
General of the Vienna Archdiocese. 
50
Helping Families Together
#FamilienChancen (Family Opportunities) has been 
drawing attention to the everyday challenges faced  by families. The goal is to relieve the burden on parents as much as possible and to enable children to participate in more sporting activities by helping “Stiftung RTL — Wir helfen Kindern e.V.” and nearly  20 RTL children’s homes. RTL is a TV broadcaster in Germany with a foundation supporting families and children in need. 
The campaign, supported by FC Bayern Munich, raised 
more than 500,000 euros this year through some amazing activities. P&G and FC Bayern München partnered to provide an unforgettable day with #FamilienChancen where children from the RTL Kinderhaus München visited FC Bayern München. Together with FC Bayern Munich Ambassador Giovane Élber, the children were able to get a behind-the-scenes look at the FC Bayern Munich training grounds and attend a match in the Allianz Arena. 
In addition, P&G supported the RTL Donation Marathon 
through advertising with TV spot placements of brands such as Ariel, Gillette, Lenor, Pampers, Pantene,  Head & Shoulders, Always, Blend-A-Dent and Oral-B. 
“We use our strong voice in advertising with great 
pleasure to achieve something positive for society. Commitment to families with children is a matter of the heart for us at P&G. We are pleased to be able to support the ‘Stiftung RTL — Wir helfen Kindern e.V.’ with some of our brands in a targeted and powerful way,” said Susanne Kunz, P&G Media Senior Director and mother of three. 
Employees Supporting Aldeas  
Infantiles SOS in Spain
Our employees are committed to supporting Aldeas Infantiles SOS. The Aldeas SOS work addresses many of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals by helping to care for children who need a home and some of life’s necessities. 
In addition to donations, employees organized other 
activities to raise funds. Additional creative efforts enabled children to experience special activities such as a night at the ice circus during the holidays. Through its consumer activation platform, Próxima a ti, P&G Spain created a channel for consumers to help. Regional Impact — Europe
“ T hese 13 years of collaboration by P&G have 
had a huge impact on the lives of children 
in our programs. Many children who, thanks 
to partnerships like P&G, have been able to 
improve their situation and their future.”
—  Aldeas
51
Regional Impact — Europe
France Solidarity Day
In July 2019, we celebrated another Solidarity Day in 
France with a mix of social and environment activities. About 30% of Paris employees participated in one of the five activities — supporting an LGBT community center in Paris, addressing poverty needs in a shelter in Asnières; cleaning up the enviornment in association with Project Rescue Ocean in Canal de l’Ourcq; helping children in need in the Plaisir area in association with SOS Villages d’Enfants; and coaching people in the Paris area with SOS Villages d’Enfants and Proxité. Check out the inspiring highlights from that day here. QUOTES FROM THE BENEFICIARIES:
“It is fantastic what happened today.” 
“ G iven our limited resources, it is a blessing  
that P&G comes to help us.” 
“ I t was so good to feel valued. It was good to 
see that there was no difference when P&Gers 
talked to us.” 
“ T he young adults from SOS Villages d’Enfants 
have highlighted the simplicity and quality of the exchanges they have had with P&G 
employees.”
But sometimes it is those who are doing the giving 
who get the most from the experience. 
“ I a m proud to have helped and was so touched 
by the welcome we have had.” 
“ A l ot of positive energy, wonderful! Thank you 
for the day.” 
“ T he action with Project Rescue Ocean  
was a great opportunity to educate us  
on environment matters.”Ariel Donation in Turkey 
Ariel, together with retailer Migros and Community 
Volunteers Foundation (TOG), ran another successful Clothing Donation Campaign. The campaign invites consumers to bring their gently used clothes and donate them in Migros stores. These clothes are then washed and cleaned by Ariel and distributed to children  
across Turkey.
The campaign took place in November and December 
and more than 45,000 pieces of clothing were collected, among which 10,000 children’s clothes were sorted, washed and prepared for distribution. The distribution, originally planned for March, had to be postponed due to COVID-19. 
Olympic Moms #StayHomeDoSports
P&G Turkey is sponsoring Olympic athletes through  the ‘Olympic Moms’ initiative, which recognizes that “every mom helping her children to do sports is an Olympic Mom.”
This year, our sponsored athletes who were supposed 
to perform in Tokyo had to #StayHome due to COVID-19 precautions. While the whole country had to #StayHome, we wanted to share some healthy tips. Along with our sponsored athletes and their families, we created social media videos showing how to do sports in the comfort of your living room as a family.SOLIDARITY DAY HIGHLIGHTS  
52
Pantene Beautiful Lengths
Our Pantene brand supports women who have lost 
their hair due to cancer treatments and helps them regain their self-confidence.
For three years, Pantene worked with customer 
Globus on the Beautiful Lengths program. This year, we needed to make adjustments due to the many lockdowns in the Czech Republic. For every Pantene product sold, a donation was made to help produce and donate wigs for cancer patients. The brand also sponsored a virtual fundraising concert. The concert was headlined by local ambassador Marketa Konvickova, a popular Czech singer, who overcame cancer herself in 2019 and received a wig from our charity partner. Other performers included singer  and model Jitka Boho, as well as Ivana Jiresova,  a stage actress who also overcame cancer and was  the ambassador when we originally launched the Beautiful Lengths program in the Czech Republic.
In southeast Europe, Pantene helped women 
struggling with the challenges of cancer through the “Give Strength” campaign. We received more than 23,000 hair donations to provide more than 500 wigs to women who have lost their hair due to the impacts of cancer treatment. Prima Preemies Donation Campaign 
For the third year in a row in Turkey, we worked with retailer Prima on a preemie diaper donation campaign together with El Bebek Gul Bebek Foundation. Prima donates preemie diapers to hospitals across Turkey in support of families and raising awareness for premature babies. One in 10 babies born in Turkey is considered premature. With this year’s campaign, Prima donated more than 500,000 premature diapers to families in need. A Classroom Called Home
P&G has transformed another classroom into a totally new space for children in a small town in Romania. Thanks to the creativity of a renowned Romanian designer, the classroom has been fully renovated and redecorated to welcome kids for their first experience with primary school in a place that feels like home. Regional Impact — Europe
BEAUTIFUL LENGTHS  
53
P&G Shiksha in India
We are improving access to holistic education for 
millions of underprivileged children across India through our flagship community impact program ‘P&G Shiksha.’ Since its inception in 2005, P&G Shiksha has focused on improving education infrastructure, empowering marginalized girls through education and improving learning outcomes. Over the years, in partnership with NGOs and experts, we have built and supported nearly 2,300 schools.
We are partnering with leading NGOs and partners who 
serve as specialists, lending their expertise to aspects of the educational system.
We are looking at improving three areas:
1. Improving education infrastructure
We partnered with the NGO Round Table India (RTI) 
to build, refurbish and renovate school buildings, classrooms and playgrounds. We are improving health and hygiene by increasing access to clean drinking water and building separate toilet facilities for boys and girls. We are also providing smart classroom technology across schools for interactive audio/ visual-base learning.
2. Empowering marginalized girls through education
We are committed to breaking gender-biased barriers to education for girls in India. We have partnered with Save the Children to support the government-run residential Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya’s (KGBV) in Rajasthan to provide quality education to girls through holistic infrastructure and learning interventions.
3. Improving learning outcomes
We are working with partners to implement unique and innovative solutions that help bridge learning gaps and improve learning outcomes in children. We are also working in early childhood education to build foundational skills in children so that they are set up for success as they enter the formal education system. 
Education During COVID-19 
Schools around India temporarily closed as a preventive measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 affecting millions of students, particularly from underprivileged communities. To facilitate continuity of learning, we partnered with Pratham to pilot new platforms of learning. We connected with students via phone calls, SMSs, video calls and WhatsApp to encourage them to continue learning from home. For children in their formative years, we encouraged mothers to engage their children in simple hands-on activities focused on building their child’s cognitive and language skills. 
For students in grades 1-8, we provided academic 
content and engaging activities in math, science and English to help them continue learning. Along with partner Education Initiatives, we provided students access to the Mindspark software to enable them to continue learning. We also set up a toll-free hotline for students to hear educational stories and solve questions over the phone.Regional Impact — Asia Pacific, 
Middle East and Africa
We are committed to  
breaking gender-biased  
barriers to education  
for girls in India.
54
Gillette’s ‘Safalta Apni Mutthi Mein’ 
Program Grooms the Next Generation  
in India
Gillette wants to help youth to develop skills they can 
use as adults in their profession through our youth-grooming program ‘Safalta Apni Mutthi Mein.’ The program is composed of practical training, such as seminars and workshops on resume writing, interview skills and how to succeed in the professional world. In the more than three years since it launched, it has reached more than 8,000 colleges and universities.For Our Smallest Consumers —   
“S6 Size” Pampers
Our passion to do the right thing has led us to create a project team to create a superior neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) diaper for the smallest of babies. After the successful launch of a smaller sized diaper, 4S for 1-1.8kg babies and 3S for 1.8-3kg, we started the challenging production of 5S for babies 500g-1,000g and 6S for babies around 500 grams. These sizes have never been made in a P&G plant before but we knew it needed to be done. Thanks to the technical mastery of our team and collaboration across multiple functions, we were able to bring these diapers to the market.Regional Impact — Asia Pacific, 
Middle East and Africa
Gillette’s youth-grooming program ‘Safalta 
Apni Mutthi Mein’ has reached more than 
8,000 colleges and universities.
55
Regional Impact — Asia Pacific, 
Middle East and Africa
P&G Health’s SEHAT on a Mission  
to Help India 
SEHAT (meaning Health) is an umbrella program 
by P&G to channel all its community impact efforts towards building a healthier India.
Projects under SEHAT include preventive health, 
community health and public health interventions; health awareness, screening and education; financial support for health care needs of marginalized and underprivileged communities; capability-building of health care professionals, health care infrastructure and health care assistance as part of disaster relief and support. All projects under SEHAT are co-created and implemented with reputable public health and non-profit partner organizations. 
Here are our three flagship SEHAT projects:With the twin-fold objective of helping build a public 
health cadre to address India’s complex public health challenges and supporting interested candidates to choose public health as a career opportunity to improve health conditions and quality of life for Indians, the P&G Public Health Scholarship was instituted  in partnership with the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). In FY19/20, 34 P&G Health Scholars, deserving students from socially and economically challenged communities, initiated their master’s in public health across PHFI’s Indian Institutes of Public Health (IIPHs) with the aspiration to become tomorrow’s change makers. Access to affordable screening, diagnostics and epidemiological data continues to be a major hurdle in India. To help improve the delivery of reproductive and maternal health services, the Company in partnership with PHFI, instituted the ‘Swasthya Sakhi’ (meaning Health companions) project in select districts of two Indian states — UP and Goa. Under this project, Swasthya Sakhis selected from district communities and empowered with PHFI’s technological Innovation Swasthya Sahayak — a portable, backpack sized, point-of-care information gathering and diagnostic tool — have been deployed to seek and digitize health information of families including conducting diagnostics of pregnant women and refer high-risk cases to Primary Health Centres. The Swasthya Sakhis reached more than 60,000 households and 200,000 people with the goal to reach 700,000. 
With the objective of supporting health needs of 
vulnerable children under institutional care, the Company joined NGO Catalysts for Social Action as it’s ‘Health Care Partner’ providing support to more than 2,000 children residing at Child Care Institutions across four Indian states. Activities included regular health check-up camps, distribution of hygiene kits, awareness sessions and a treatment contingency fund. 
Along with focusing on health, our employees have 
been enthusiastically participating and contributing to national giving programs like the Joy of Giving Week with partner NGO HelpAge India and the annual Mumbai Marathon where employees ran for partner NGO ‘Catalysts for Social Action’ to help children in need of care and protection.
P&G HEALTH INDIA  
56
P&G Hope Schools: Sowing New Hope 
This is the third year our Hope School Program has 
partnered with the National Center for Performing Arts (NCPA) through the China Youth Development Foundation (CYDF). We kicked off the season under the theme of “Listen to the Kids, in Arts We Believe  to Sow New Hope of Health.” 
The highlight of the season is always the event day 
at NCPA. Despite the unprecedented challenges of COVID-19, students from the P&G Hope School in Qianshan county in the Anhui province performed “A Little Wish.” This children’s drama is based on true stories from other P&G Hope School students in the Hunan province. The event had nearly 30,000 viewers  on site and via livestream. The in-person audience included P&G, CYDF and NCPA management, government officials, P&G partners, influencers and employees. 
The kids and teachers from a P&G Hope School in the 
Anhui province led a P&G Happy Health Class under the Theater in Education (TIE), a cutting-edge teaching methodology leveraging art empowerment and new technology. Instead of the traditional one-way teaching approach, teachers from the P&G Hope School used TIE training to create an innovative curriculum that utilizes student-created visual and performative art, such as handmade 3D playbooks, hand shadowing  and theater to learn and remember health tips.
Safeguard’s Journey to Spread Health 
Across China for Hygiene, Health and Life
More than 97% of the population in China are aware that 
handwashing helps prevent diseases, but only around 10% of people apply the right handwashing habits, according to the latest Chinese People Handwashing Habits Research done by Health Education Center of Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. Safeguard has been focusing on kids handwashing education for more than 13 years in urban and rural areas, benefitting millions of children. 
Beyond education in rural areas and schools, Safeguard 
supported China during the critical “Back to Work and Back to School” period by activating “Safeguard Health Charging Stations” across the nation to drive education on the right hygiene behaviors and provide access  to the right products. In 2020, Safeguard initiated the “Spread Health Across China” Program to provide hygiene education to 100 million people and develop correct hand washing habits via the Health Charging Stations activation.
During the COVID-19 outbreak, we donated more than 
100,000 products to the Hubei province and helped more than 2,000 children of frontline workers with donations of kid’s foaming body wash. Since April 2020, we also launched Health Charging Stations in Shanghai, Hangzhou, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and 10 other cities across the country to help schools with health education and control measures. Regional Impact — Greater China
57
A Better Day — Helping Moms, Babies  
and Families in Panama
We want to provide #UnMejorDía (A Better Day) 
to those who need it most. That is why we seek to strengthen the care and services provided by maternal homes administered by the Panamanian Ministry of Health in the Ngabe Buglé Region. The goal is to provide professional care to pregnant women categorized as “high risk” due to the economic and geographical barriers they face to access professional health services. 
The program provides training to women responsible 
for the five maternal homes, strengthening their knowledge over subjects, such as prenatal care, the importance of professional delivery, postpartum care for both moms and newborns, recognition of warning signs and newborn care. Additionally, the program provides packs loaded with P&G products for nursing women and their newborn babies that promote hygiene habits to help prevent illness.
“Mamás Seguras” empowers these women by giving 
them training and economic independence as they are hired to serve as trainers to the women who visit the homes. The program stems from a multisectoral agreement between the Ministry of Health, NGOs (Panama Volunteers and United Way Panama) and P&G. Recently, Smurffit Kappa (one of P&G´s biggest paperboard suppliers) joined to help provide easy-to-assemble cribs.The “Mamás Seguras” program was awarded the “2019 Sustainable Leadership” recognition by Pan AMCHAM. The program celebrated its fifth anniversary and has improved the lives of thousands of indigenous mothers and their babies. 
Brazil Social Projects 
Accelerator
In the face of many challenges  
and changes, P&G Brazil launched the Aceleradora P&G Social, a platform that was designed to support initiatives focused on mitigating the impacts generated by the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The platform creates connections and accelerate innovative ideas, seeking projects from consumers, NGOs, small companies or professionals from any sector and from the most diverse parts of Brazil. The projects are segmented into diversified categories, such as gender equality, racial diversity, social inclusion, impact on the community and sustainability.
The Aceleradora has accumulated more than 240 
projects. The startup Coletando was the first successful partnership and created a system that provides cash-in/cashback payments for collected recyclable content. The new initiative will continue to explore 20 additional concepts for the future.
Regional Impact — Latin America
58
Giving Back in Peru
Once a year, as part of our holiday celebration in 
December, we close the doors at our Lima offices to dedicate the morning to give back to the community. This year, we separated our employees into two groups for volunteering activities.
The first group of employees shared their morning 
reading stories, making crafts and celebrating with children from a public school. Volunteers donated books to the school library. The second group went to clean a beach where they collected waste which was then given to recyclers so it could be used again. 
Virtual Volunteering
Due to the pandemic emergency in Peru, the “Learning at Home” program was activated by the government to ensure that students attend classes virtually. However, many teachers from vulnerable communities did not have the knowledge or digital tools to effectively teach online. Our ally, United Way Peru, identified the problem and organized a series of online sessions led by P&G volunteers in which they trained teachers on a wide range of digital tools. As a result, more than 80 teachers benefitted from these workshops and their students can now take advantage of higher-quality online education.
Additionally, United Way Peru opened a virtual 
library consisting of videos of our volunteers reading short stories to children. Thousands of children from vulnerable communities in Peru, Argentina and Chile benefitted from this initiative and can now access books anytime without having to rely on physical ones. 
Oral-B Joins “Caring Smiles Campaign”  
to Provide Free Dental Services in Chile 
As a way to reinforce aid to Chileans in the current health crisis, Oral-B joined the campaign “Caring Smiles,” an initiative led by Fundación Sonrisas, a nonprofit organization to help recover the smiles  of Chileans, together with the NGO TECHO.
The campaign provides primary care benefits through 
free dental operations, including oral health exams, family prevention and the delivery of Oral-B kits that include toothbrushes and toothpastes, all to help thousands of Chileans living in vulnerable sections  of the Metropolitan and Valparaíso regions.
Oral-B has worked with Fundación Sonrisas since 2019, 
and their work has benefitted hundreds of children, delivering 120 comprehensive rehabilitations at no cost and performed 1,800 free dental services to children and adults throughout the country.
Lucas Álvarez, Oral-B Director Chile shared, “Both at 
Oral-B and P&G, we know the importance of having healthy teeth, both for self-esteem and for the confidence of children and adults. We are happy to be able to collaborate with Fundación Sonrisas and TECHO through the free delivery of oral hygiene and care kits because we know that today, more than ever, Chileans need to recover their smiles.”
Regional Impact — Latin America
59
Employee and Consumer Programs
Supporting Employee Wellbeing 
P&G has invested in the health and wellbeing of our 
employees since the Company’s beginnings in 1837. From an 8-hour workday in 1919 to the introduction of disability insurance in 1994, employee wellness has been a continued focus from one generation to the next.
Today, a host of health care professionals lend 
occupational medical expertise to support the safety and wellbeing of employees in every country and site where we operate. We’ve built a strong foundation to enable our employees’ physical and mental well-being with initiatives like creating robust workplace health and hygiene standards that comply with local regulations, partnering with Human Resources on wellness strategies and programs and cultivating external networks providing expertise on societal health issues impacting our employees or business. 
Never was the importance of this work more evident 
than during the COVID pandemic. Facing an urgent need to prevent its spread and an unprecedented demand for the health, hygiene and cleaning products we make, we built upon our strong foundation of wellness strategies and resources to act quickly to ensure the safety and health of our employees— and our ability to serve consumers.
Protecting Our Employees
Our Human Resources and facilities personnel collaborated to establish robust safety protocols for working at our sites including creating access protocols like temperature scans, shift rotations, queueing avoidance, physical distancing and handling incoming and outgoing shipments of raw materials and goods. We also provided personal protective equipment like hand sanitizers and masks and initiated comprehensive, methodical cleaning.
We also provided employees expanded benefits and 
support such as no-cost access to virtual medical and mental health support and COVID-19 testing and treatment and health counseling where we encouraged employees to make appropriate choices such as staying at home if they feel unwell, responding to employee questions and concerns and assisting employees directly impacted by COVID-19.
We acted quickly  
to ensure the safety 
and health of our 
employees — and 
our ability to serve 
consumers.
60
Vibrant Living Program
Our Vibrant Living global health and wellbeing 
program equips employees with offerings in the areas of fitness, nutrition, mental and emotional resilience, and health education and training.
At an 80%+ participation rate, the program’s offerings 
are familiar to, and valued by, employees. Our first step was to bring greater visibility to the many resources available. We did this on our Vibrant Living website and through a series of postings on a global COVID-19 Employee Information Hub, which provided employees up-to-date information about the pandemic and resources available to them. 
Serendipitously, we celebrate Global Vibrant Living 
Awareness Day each April in conjunction with World Health Day. This was our sixth year celebrating the importance of our health and wellbeing. Vibrant Living teams at P&G sites ran mostly digital campaigns behind the theme “Healthy Body, Vibrant Living,” encouraging employees to take small steps to improve personal health, increase physical activity and focus on mental wellbeing. Sites were creative in bringing attention to stress and resilience resources, virtual workouts, healthy eating and minimizing the spread  of illness.With 94% of sites around the world participating, our highest rate yet, employees showed us how dedicated, resilient and creative they are, even during uncertain and stressful times. 
P&G Good Everyday: Turning Everyday 
Actions into Acts of Good for the World
In May, we launched P&G Good Everyday, a new 
consumer rewards program enabling people to make a positive impact with their purchases. Powered by trusted P&G brands such as Crest, Dawn and Tide, this program is helping turn everyday actions into acts of good for our consumers, their families, communities and the world. 
By joining the P&G Good Everyday rewards program 
and engaging through the website, consumers can earn rewards they’ll love — and P&G automatically makes donations to the consumer’s cause of choice. The website also features stories about P&G causes, partnerships and inspiring good news articles  with helpful tips on how people take action  to make a difference.
P&G and our family of household brands have  
a longstanding commitment to doing what is  right — making a positive community impact,  
driving equality and inclusion and promoting  environmental sustainability in the world. We will continue to use our global reach and resources, but we know we can accomplish more together. With P&G Good Everyday, we’re pairing consumers’ desire to do good with our ongoing efforts to help solve challenges around the world.
Healthy Mind sVibran t Livi ng
Employee and Consumer Programs
P&G GOOD EVERYDAY  
61
At P&G, we know that an equal world is a better 
world — for everyone. Our success is grounded in the 
success of our employees, consumers and communities. All of them. Our Equality & Inclusion (E&I) strategy is holistic and integrated so that we make meaningful impact in four key areas: for our employees, with our brands, through our partners and in our communities. 
We are committed to honoring the individuality and 
unique contributions of our people, and by being united in our values and goals, our people flourish, business thrives and our communities prosper. Equality  
& Inclusion
62
Equality & Inclusion
Message from Shelly McNamara  
Employees  
Brands  
Partners & Communities  
63
SHELLY MCNAMARA
Chief Equality  
& Inclusion OfficerMessage from  
Shelly McNamara
At P&G, we aspire to create a company and a world where equality 
and inclusion is achievable for all; where respect and inclusion 
are the cornerstones of our culture; where equal access and 
opportunity to learn, grow, succeed and thrive are available to everyone. We are committed to honoring the individuality and 
unique contributions of our people and ensuring that every single 
employee shows up to work as their whole, authentic self and 
to feel safe in doing so. It is only then that we can unlock the 
real potential of our teams: the power of our differences and the 
strength of our togetherness. 
 Externally, we have an opportunity and obligation to use our voice 
as a force for good and a force for growth and to express and reflect 
our equality aspirations. As this year has been marked with a global 
pandemic and racial injustice, P&G and our brands have stepped 
up our ongoing efforts to advance equality for all people. We 
partnered with organizations and allies that share our perspectives 
on diversity, equality, equity and inclusivity and worked with them 
to identify the gaps that create inequity and developed programs that can change experiences, lives and whole communities. 
We believe now, more than ever, companies and organizations must 
remain committed to equality and inclusion and stay committed 
for a more equal world inside and outside our walls. By being visible 
in our actions and staying anchored to our commitments to our 
employees, through our brands and with our business partners,  
we can continue to drive important change around the world. 
64
EMPLOYEES
65
Workplace Equality Begins at Home
Caring for home and family has no gender. Our 
new global parental leave framework marks an important milestone in our journey to drive positive change by providing equal opportunity for both parents to share caregiving for new family members. The policy will provide a minimum standard of eight weeks fully paid leave for all parents: biological parents, domestic partners, adoptive parents and parents in same sex couples with an additional six weeks physical recovery leave for birth mothers. The goal is to implement this new policy globally by 2022. More than a policy change, it is a step toward shifting cultural norms by making child caregiving unbiased by gender. We believe equality at home will help to advance equality in  the workplace. We are committed to building a more inclusive, equal workplace where our people are engaged and contribute to their full potential. 
We believe equality at home will help  
to advance equality in the workplace.  
We are committed to building a more inclusive, equal workplace where our  
people are engaged and contribute  
to their full potential.Brazil Steps Up for Racial Diversity
Brazil is a dynamic and diverse country where 
50% of the population define themselves as Black or mixed race, while 47% declare themselves as Caucasian. However, this has traditionally not reflected the representation  of P&G employees. P&G Brazil has historically only had less than 8% of our employees identify as Black or mixed race, leading us to launch The Racial Diversity and Inclusion Project which focuses on increasing our representation of Black and mixed race employees so that we more closely reflect the diversity of our consumers in the workplace. 
The Racial Diversity and Inclusion Project 
includes several interventions starting with our recruiting process. In 2019, we launched  the project “P&G pra Voce” creating a hiring process focused on Black and Brown candidates that includes scholarships for English courses and mentorship. We started being more active and intentional in recruiting at universities with more Black representatives, sponsoring recruiting fairs that focus on Black and Brown students and staying close to university affinity groups. Internally, we promote conversations to create an inclusive culture by raising awareness, literacy and best practices to help people feel comfortable talking about racial equality and inclusion. SHARE THE CARE We Are Unique and We Are United
66
GABLE Brazil Celebrates 10th Anniversary 
As the world celebrated Pride in June, we celebrated 
the 10th anniversary of GABLE in Brazil, a P&G initiative to build an inclusive company that values the diversity and individualities of its LGBTQ+ employees. To celebrate this milestone, the GABLE team in Brazil collaborated with social media influencers. The campaign received significant attention on social media, increasing awareness about our efforts to create an inclusive workplace for everyone. Allies Lead the Way for LGBTQ+ Employee 
Affinity with Expansion into Japan
More than 25 years ago, a group of P&G employees 
created an LGBTQ+ organization that would leave a profound and lasting impact on our Company. Today, GABLE, P&G’s organization supporting a diverse spectrum of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer and Ally employees, has expanded to 43 countries with more than 5,000 members worldwide. In 2019, GABLE entered Japan for the first time. The expansion was led by ally employees who recognized that some LGBTQ+ employees were not out, likely due to cultural and societal pressures. The group quickly established multiple learning events for leadership, HR and employees, as well as ensuring recruitment programs include a visible welcome to LGBTQ+ talent. They also partnered with PRIDEHOUSE to promote LGBTQ+ inclusion during the 2021 Olympic Games. The work has resulted in P&G being recognized as a top LGBTQ+ friendly company in Japan and established a new benchmark for role modeling behavior for supportive allies working to create more inclusive companies  and communities. P&G Russia REACHes People  
with Disabilities 
Project REACH in Russia is a successful program for hiring people with disabilities. It gives the opportunity for young people with disabilities to gain work experience and new skills in a multinational company. During the last two years, 19 people graduated from project REACH in Russia. Many of them found permanent jobs in multinational companies, including P&G.
P&G Japan Expands the Scope of 
Diversity & Inclusion 
P&G Japan conducted its first online Diversity & 
Inclusion symposium in June 2020. While D&I in Japan used to focus on gender diversity, this symposium captured diversity beyond gender. All the expert panelists passionately discussed several topics, sharing many experiences and stories. Topics included how D&I has been changed and shifted in Japan and the world, how we can enable “individual uniqueness,” what is so-called “normal,” how we fight unconscious bias and stereotyped thinking, how COVID-19 impacts different values and inclusive mindsets and how D&I will be even more important after the pandemic.  
We Are Unique and We Are United
67
In honor of International Women’s Day, we hosted our 
fourth annual #WeSeeEqual Forum at our Cincinnati 
headquarters. Each year, the #WeSeeEqual Forum welcomes those with diverse perspectives and backgrounds allowing employees, P&G partners and change-makers to share their stories as part of our commitment to gender equality. The annual event  was born out of P&G’s aspiration to create a world free from gender bias, a world with equal representation and an equal voice for all individuals. 
This year, as we reinforced P&G’s aspiration to have 
50/50 representation of women at every level in the Company, we announced a new aspiration to achieve 40% multicultural representation in management positions in the U.S. To celebrate and acknowledge the amazing impact of multicultural women inside P&G and beyond, this year’s #WeSeeEqual Forum featured  
a variety of panel discussions with P&G leaders and like-minded influencers, including comedian, actress and writer Mindy Kaling, spoken word poet and performing artist Amena Brown and leadership development expert, Tara Jaye Frank. During the Forum, multicultural women shared their expectations for their careers and their aspirations for P&G — along with the meaningful work they are leading across brand campaigns, supplier diversity and community impact.#WeSeeEqual Forums
Cincinnati HQ Celebrates Multicultural Women’s  
Impact on the Company and the World 
P&G Celebrates International 
Women’s Day with Mindy Kaling  
at #WeSeeEqual Forum.
#WESEEEQUAL FORUM 
68
P&G Pakistan Partners with UN Women 
Held in partnership with U.N. Women Pakistan, the 
P&G #WeSeeEqual Forum brought together business and government leaders, as well as influencers to share inspiration and discuss challenges that are preventing individuals and society from accelerating the progress of gender equality in the country. The event highlighted our efforts to promote gender equality internally within the workplace, as well as externally through community impact, supplier diversity and brand initiatives. #WeSeeEqual Program Advocates  
for Change in India and Beyond 
We are exposing and challenging the myths about women at work and advocating for a new playbook that more broadly addresses the systems, policies, processes and bias that hold women back — both  in the workplace and the world.
At our Mumbai #WeSeeEqual Forum, we convened 
notable advocates of gender equality, industry partners, government representatives and our own engaged employees, inspiring all to continue to advocate for change within the workplace and in their communities across the Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa region. We also leveraged external platforms like the India Economic Summit hosted by the World Economic Forum, the Bloomberg Equality Summit, ET Workforce of the Future and several industry forums to promote gender equality. 
During the Bloomberg Equality Summit, we shared 
our views on how brands can be a force for good and a force for growth. We talked about how brands are the most pervasive forces in the world and have the power to influence culture, break societal taboos and drive change. We also discussed how we can promote gender equality through compelling stories that accurately portray women and encourage intentional action. #WeSeeEqual ForumsGeneva HQ Event Encourages 
Everyone to Check Their Blind Spots 
Our Geneva headquarter’s first #WeSeeEqual 
Forum took place under the theme “Will you Check your Blind Spots?” The forum sessions offered insightful conversations around advancing gender equality both at home and at work for our employees and communities. Eve Rodsky, the New York Times bestselling author of Fair Play, introduced our employees to a game-changing solution that teaches couples how to create a system for rebalancing domestic responsibilities fairly, which in turn allows each of us to step into our jobs, our parenting and caregiving roles and the world more fully. This was even more relevant as working from home has become our new normal during the global COVID-19 pandemic. Whether living with family, with roommates or balancing work with homeschooling kids and caring for family members, our need to figure out how to work and live together 24/7 requires new conversations and systems. 
The forum sessions 
offered insightful 
conversations 
around advancing 
gender equality at 
home and at work.#WESEEEQUAL FORUM 
#WeSeeEqual Forum  
highlighted our efforts to  
promote gender equality  
within the workplace.
69
WOMEN MEN52%Management 
Recruiting48%
WOMEN MEN44%* 56%*Management 
Recruiting2020
2015TOTAL WOMEN40%
2020
WOMEN MEN26% Global Leadership
Council74%
WOMEN MEN41% Global Leadership
Council59%
WOMEN MEN45% Management 55%
WOMEN MEN48% Management 52%
WOMEN MEN37% Business & Technical 
Associates63%
WOMEN MEN35% Business & Technical 
Associates65%
WOMEN MENGLOBAL WORKFORCE REPRESENTATION BY GENDER
• Data as of June 30, 2015 and June 30, 2020 based on 
employees’ initial self-identification
• Business & Technical Associates (BTAs) are employees who typically perform administrative tasks at our facilities or technical tasks at our manufacturing locations. These roles often do not require post-secondary education. Due to the nature of these roles, the available talent pool is more local to the areas surrounding our facilities, as opposed to the situation with respect to our Management positions, where the talent pools are national or global in nature. In addition, while there are pathways from the BTA level to the Management level, many BTA employees do not choose to pursue that option and that advancement is not necessarily an inherent part of the BTA career path.Consistent with the 50/50 aspiration we declared several years ago, more women are members of P&G’s Global Leadership Council and in global management positions compared to 2015. As we continue to make progress at the management level, we are now putting intentional plans in place to accelerate gender equality among our business and technical associate roles.
WOMEN MEN52%Management 
Recruiting48%
WOMEN MEN44%* 56%*Management 
Recruiting2020
2015TOTAL WOMEN40%
2020
WOMEN MEN26% Global Leadership
Council74%
WOMEN MEN41% Global Leadership
Council59%
WOMEN MEN45% Management 55%
WOMEN MEN48% Management 52%
WOMEN MEN37% Business & Technical 
Associates63%
WOMEN MEN35% Business & Technical 
Associates65%
WOMEN MEN
On our way to our aspiration of 50/50 
women and men at every level.Increasing Diversity  
in Our Workforce
We’ve declared two representation aspirations: globally — to achieve gender-equal 
representation at every level, and in the U.S. — to achieve 40% representation  of multicultural employees at every management level of the Company. 
We’ve taken stock of our efforts, and while we’ve made progress in many areas  
 — we know we can do even more. We recognize that representation is a continued 
commitment, and it’s one of many ways we make and measure our progress. 
We also believe that equality benefits us all — and it will take all of us, working  
together, to make a bigger impact.
*Data as of June 30, 2016
70
U.S. RACE AND ETHNICITY COMPOSITION
2020
MULTICULTURAL25%2015 2020
Global Leadership Council
Management
Business & Technical Associates
Overall
Management Recruiting36%
28%22%25%40%TOTAL MULTICULTURAL
23%
25%
20%
22%
35%*
6%
8%12%10%12%AFRICAN ANCESTRY
Global Leadership Council
Management
Business & Technical Associates
Overall
Management Recruiting6%
7%
13%
10%
10%*
18%10%2%5%15%ASIAN PACIFIC
Global Leadership Council
Management
Business & Technical Associates
Overall
Management Recruiting11%
9%
2%
5%
13%*
12%9%6%7%9%HISPANIC / LATINX
Global Leadership Council
Management
Business & Technical Associates
Overall
Management Recruiting6%
9%
5%
7%
9%*
64%70%76%74%58%WHITE
Global Leadership Council
Management
Business & Technical Associates
Overall
Management Recruiting77%
74%
78%
76%
57%*On our way to our aspiration of 
40% multicultural employees at 
management level.• Data as of June 30, 2015 and June 30, 2020 based on 
employees’ initial self-identification.
• Multicultural includes: Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Asian, American Indian/Alaska Native, two or more races, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander.
• Numbers may not add to 100% due to rounding and because a small percentage of employees have chosen  not to disclose their race/ethnicity or chose other.
• Business & Technical Associates (BTAs) are employees who typically perform administrative tasks at our facilities or technical tasks at our manufacturing locations. These roles often do not require post-secondary education. Due to the nature of these roles, the available talent pool is more local to the areas surrounding our facilities, as opposed to the situation with respect to our Management positions, where the talent pools are national or global in nature. In addition, while there are pathways from the BTA level to the Management level, many BTA employees do not choose to pursue that option and that advancement is not necessarily an inherent part of the BTA career path.In our U.S. workforce, P&G continues to progress toward our aspiration of 40% multicultural representation. Our workforce is meaningfully more diverse than in 2015, with significant progress in representation on our Global Leadership Council. Increasing Diversity  
in Our Workforce
U.S. WORKFORCE REPRESENTATION  
BY RACE AND ETHNICITY
*Data as of June 30, 2016
71
In 2020, P&G achieved equal 
representation of women and men among our independent Board Directors and increased multicultural representation to 25%. Both statistics represent meaningful growth since 2015. 
• 2015 = Directors elected at the October 2015 Annual Meeting
• 2020 = Directors elected at the October 2020 Annual Meeting
• Multicultural includes: Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Asian, American Indian/Alaska Native, two or more races, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander.
• Numbers may not add to 100% due to rounding and because a small percentage of employees have chosen  not to disclose their race/ethnicity or chose other.2020 2020
African Ancestry 
Asian Paciﬁc
Hispanic / LatinxWhiteTOTAL MULTICULTURAL 2020
8%8%8%
75%Women 
MenTOTAL REPRESEN TATION 2O2O
50%50%
African Ancestry Asian Paciﬁc
Hispanic / LatinxWhiteTOTAL MULTICULTURAL 2015
8%
0%
8%
83%Women 
MenTOTAL REPRESEN TATION 2O15
33%
67%TOTAL WOMEN50%
MULTICULTURAL25%BOARD REPRESENTATION
2020 2020
African Ancestry Asian Paciﬁc
Hispanic / LatinxWhiteTOTAL MULTICULTURAL 2020
8%8%8%
75%Women 
MenTOTAL REPRESEN TATION 2O2O
50%50%
African Ancestry Asian Paciﬁc
Hispanic / LatinxWhiteTOTAL MULTICULTURAL 2015
8%
0%
8%
83%Women 
MenTOTAL REPRESEN TATION 2O15
33%
67%TOTAL WOMEN50%
MULTICULTURAL25%Increasing Diversity  
in Our Workforce
72
BRANDS
73
My Black Is Beautiful Tackles #TwoEvils 
Since 2006, My Black Is Beautiful (MBIB) has stood 
firm in its commitment to champion Black beauty and culture by shining a spotlight on bias, driving dialogue and advocating for positive representation. In May 2020, the Black community was under attack by two evils at once: COVID-19 and racism. In response, MBIB quickly initiated a campaign to give a voice to Black progress. First, MBIB raised awareness by launching a video, “Two Evils,” aimed to highlight the daunting statistics that Black people are 2.5 times more likely to die from COVID-19 and 2.5 times more likely to be killed by police brutality. Next, MBIB created live programming on social media to equip the communitywith tools to engage in the movement and bust myths about COVID-19. MBIB engaged leaders on the frontlines to share solutions, direct funding and route resources in a multi-part series titled #HowWe. How We Fight, How We Win, How We Survive and How We Cope focused on solutions to help the community to stay healthy and thrive amidst these dual crises. MBIB created a twice-weekly virtual space for activism, emotional healing and togetherness in a time of  
social distancing.
Whisper Launched Mobileshaala,  
Free Phone-Based Learning Platform 
The closure of schools due to the pandemic affected access to education, especially for girls from marginalized communities, making them even more vulnerable to dropping out of school completely.  In India, Whisper, in partnership with Pratham Education Foundation, launched ‘Mobileshaala,’  a free phone-based learning platform with  curriculum-based education modules on key  subjects like English, Science and menstrual  hygiene education.
TWO EVILS  
‘Mobileshaala’ is a free 
educational phone-based  
learning platform for girls.
WHISPER MOBILESHAALA  Brands Stepping Up for  
Equality During COVID-19
74
DE INVISIBLE A INVENCIBLE  Secret Supports Mexican Women  
During COVID-19 Pandemic 
The feminist movement was “halted” in Mexico by 
COVID -19, and women were hit hardest by economic crisis and job losses in the short, mid- and long-term in the country. Secret launched #MujeresVisibles, a campaign for women in Mexico focused on raising awareness on labor inequality. We revamped our brand communication efforts to inspire, empower and encourage action. We wanted to encourage women to continue their education and support them through relevant content and information like effective time management, importance of community and taking care of themselves mentally and physically. 
Standing up for women is in Secret´s DNA. We are 
proactively supporting women as this crisis evolves by enabling action through our current partners. NGOs focused on enabling more women and their families to #stayathome safely will benefit from Secret’s donations to United Way. To drive further impact and awareness of our cause, we invited our community to support this fund and others to help those in need by becoming individual donors or sharing this initiative and spread the word. Always Steps Up to Help. Period.
Periods don’t stop during pandemics and neither does Always’ commitment to serving people around the world. During the COVID-19 pandemic, an increasing number of people have struggled to get period products and are worried about their ability to afford them in the future. Always has been helping address this need by working with more than 40 relief organizations, across more than 30 countries, to donate more than 23 million period products.
With school attendance disrupted due to COVID-19, 
Always has also focused on finding relevant ways to ensure girls still have access to the information they need to navigate periods with confidence. This has included strengthening online tools for girls and parents that can be accessed from home and partnering with experts and influencers to provide education.
And, despite social distancing, Always found ways to 
bring people together by sharing messages of support and unity; supporting frontline and essential workers with messages of gratitude to recognize their efforts and supporting events like Global Citizen’s One World: Together At Home event, which raised more than  $100 million in aid. 
 
Always supported Global Citizen’s  
One World: Together At Home  
event, which raised more  
than $100 million in aid.Brands Stepping Up for  
Equality During COVID-19
75
Whisper Supports Female Medical 
Workers Fighting COVID-19 
In China, 90% of the frontline medical workers battling 
COVID-19 were women. Whisper wanted to support them with product donations in honor of their service. In February, we donated 1,650 cases of Koala overnight pants and adult discreet pants to Hubei hospitals. 
When sanitary pads were in great shortage, Whisper 
also initiated #LikeAGirl. It called people’s attention to the issue on Weibo, which stressed that periods are a normal, physiological phenomenon instead of something to be ashamed of. The Weibo topic earned more than 20 million impressions, and all top feminine care brands joined in the discussion. 
In the long-term, we will work on supporting female 
medical workers in cooperation with China Women’s Development Foundation and China Medical Women’s Association by commending outstanding female medical workers during COVID-19. Women Are the #NewBrave 
As a result of the COVID-19 outbreak, women have been first responders, whether at home or in the hospital. They’ve acquired new skills, juggling between work and home with courage and determination. Women, as always, have stepped up and have been  a force to be reckoned with during this pandemic.  The definition of brave has changed. #NewBrave. 
Always, as a force for female good, used its voice to 
celebrate women’s bravery and recognize that these challenging times have only made women stronger. With the #NewBrave campaign in Saudi, UAE, Pakistan and South Africa, Always celebrated the everyday courage and bravery of women in these challenging times with a reminder that women and girls will emerge even stronger than before. Check out this Always video here: 
Brands Stepping Up for  
Equality During COVID-19
MEET THE NEW BRAVE  
Whisper donated 1,650  
cases of Koala overnight  
pants and adult discreet  
pants to Hubei hospitals.
76
Positive Portrayal of Men  
in Domestic Roles 
SHARE THE LOAD  
Ariel continues to encourage 
all men to share domestic 
responsibilities, launching the 
fourth edition of #ShareTheLoad.
Ariel Urges Families to #ShareTheLoad 
India
In 2020, Ariel launched the fourth edition of the #ShareTheLoad campaign by highlighting that household chores keep women from getting enough sleep and rest. A survey conducted by an independent third-party revealed a startling and uncomfortable truth — 71% women in India sleep less than their husbands due to household chores, as they end up waking up early and/or staying up late to take care of these responsibilities. In its latest campaign, Ariel aimed to convert intent to action by urging men to #ShareTheLaundry and take the first step toward #ShareTheLoad.
In light of the current crisis, Ariel realized the impact 
of changing dynamics within the household. With the message “what we learn in crisis will help us in times of comfort,” Ariel continued to encourage all men to share domestic responsibilities during the pandemic.
France
In 2018, Ariel continued to take a strong stand on gender equality as #ShareTheLoad expanded to focus on sharing household tasks in France. In the successful campaign, Ariel went further than just taking a stand and took action partnering with Adosen, a local charity to drive education in schools in France on gender stereotypes for the next generation. More than 110,000 students have benefited from the program and more than 50 additional volunteers have been trained to continue and expand this education program. Thanks to the multifaceted campaign, including well-known French influencers, Ariel continued to make sure that the topic remained top of mind. 
Prima Portrays Dads as Equal Partners 
Big brands have a role to play in advancing inclusion and equality in society—and to change minds. There are many P&G ads that portray men as equal partners: ads from Luvs, Swiffer, Dawn, Tide and Ariel show fathers caring for their children, cleaning up kitchens, Swiffering floors and doing laundry. Supporting the role of the dads in childcare, our Prima babycare brand shot and aired its most recent TV ad in Turkey with a dad in the leading caregiver role.
 
PRIMA VIDEO  
Prima shot and  
aired its most recent  
TV ad in Turkey with  
a dad in the leading 
caregiver role.
77
P&G and Our Brands Tackle  
Bias Around the Globe
Choose Equal 
In 2020, we leveraged our voice in advertising and 
media to create films and sponsor programs that shine a light on people who are disproportionately affected by the global pandemic — raising awareness and raising funds for relief efforts. We released a film called “Choose Equal” to bring focus to ongoing gender inequalities and inspire action.
This film closes with these words: “These times are not 
unprecedented. But they give us another chance for equality, if we all choose to step forward as equals. Care equal. Hire equal. Pay equal. Model equal. Do Equal. Choose equal. At home. At work. Right now, for an equal future. “
Now more than ever, we remain committed to gender 
equality. It’s up to us to ensure that progress steps forward — not backwards — as we learn from this crisis. 
The Pause: Lifting Up LGBTQ+ Visibility
P&G is committed to driving LGBTQ+ visibility through the accurate and authentic representation of the community. By highlighting insights and human truths, we are able to drive more positive and accepting societies for LGBTQ+ people. When this happens, economies grow, communities are healthier, businesses thrive and the world is a better place for everyone. P&G uses its voice as a force for good to  drive acceptance, normalization, inclusion, and love  for humanity.
Now is the time to remind the world to be intentional, 
as each choice we make can disproportionally advance the opportunity for a more equal and equitable society. “The Pause” highlights the struggle and hesitation the LGBTQ+ community experiences every day before deciding how much of themselves to reveal to those around them. The film encourages people outside of the community to notice, reflect and realize how their reactions can make a difference.
“The Pause” highlights the critical importance of family 
support and deliberate and inclusive equality-based policies and laws in our communities, driving empathy and action for those struggling to find themselves in this world. Released during Pride month, the film quickly became one of P&G’s most viewed films of the last five years — striking a chord with both the LGBTQ+ community and their allies and helping to start a discussion about making our communities more welcoming and open.
CHOOSE EQUAL  
THE PAUSE  P&G uses its voice  
as a force for good... 
to drive acceptance,  
normalization, inclusion,  
and love for humanity.
78
#HairWeGo Challenges the Social 
Uniformity and Conformity Symbolized  
by Hair 
Pantene Japan’s #HairWeGo program started social 
conversations tackling the longstanding hair biases experienced by Japanese women. #HairWeGo put the spotlight on compulsory “shūkatsu” or “job-hunting” hair: straight, black and pulled back into a very precise, side-parted, low ponytail. Pantene Japan collaborated with more than 100 of the country’s top companies  to pledge support for current and future employees who choose to forgo shūkatsu hair in favor of their  own personal style. Pantene Japan also tackled hair-related discrimination in schools. Students who have anything other than black, straight hair were required to submit a signed ‘natural hair certificate’ or to provide baby pictures to prove that their hair is natural, not created with chemicals or a curling iron. Even after submitting proof, many students were still forced to dye and straighten their hair to conform. In the summer of 2019, a petition inspired by the Pantene Japan #HairWeGo campaign led the Tokyo Metropolitan Board of Education to change this school policy permanently. 
Hair Has No Gender 
Pantene’s #HairHasNoGender campaign in Europe explored the power of hair to express one’s identity through personal, powerful stories from transgender individuals and gender nonconforming advocates.  
It also shared the struggles this community faces and how Pantene is taking action to help in a meaningful way: by partnering with the DressCode Project, a global network of salons promoting gender-affirming safer spaces for all, as well as working with local LGBTQ+ associations to provide safe spaces, job training and job opportunities to the transgender community. The campaign achieved unprecedented engagement, reaching more than 17 million people across Europe. But our journey did not end there. Our goal is to have 150 salons in Europe signed up by 2022 to the DressCode Project, and we will continue to spread their powerful message and support the community with our next chapter of the campaign. Whatever hair you dream of, we stand with you. 
P&G and Our Brands Tackle  
Bias Around the Globe
Pantene’s  
#HairHasNoGender 
campaign explores  
the power of hair to 
express one’s identity.
79
SK-II and Olympic Athletes Challenge Us to End Toxic Competition in Beauty 
Competition brings out the best in us. It pushes us further, drives us harder and makes us 
stronger. We celebrate it and revel in it. But there is one place where it does not bring out our best — beauty. It is the one competition that no one signed up for but still many feel  the pressure of competing beauty standards, rules and limitations. These toxic competitions dictate how we should look, feel and act, which can hold us back in our daily lives. 
SK-II partnered with top Olympic athletes to call 
out toxic competitions in beauty and shared their personal experiences on their social channels. Since its launch at The 2020 MAKERS Conference , BEAUTY is 
#NOCOMPETITION has sparked a global conversation about toxic competitions in beauty, becoming a rallying cry for women to call out these situations and define what beauty means to them. 
Top Olympic athletes participated in the program, 
including Simone Biles, the world’s most decorated gymnast, LiuXiang, world-record holder swimmer, Ishikawa Kasumi, table tennis player and two-time Olympic medalist, Ayaka Takahashi and Misaki Matsutomo, badminton duo and Olympic gold medalists, Mahina Maeda, surfer, and Hinotori Nippon, Japan Volleyball Team player. Together they sent a powerful message—”We won’t compete anymore. Beauty is #NOCOMPETITION.” 
#NOCOMPETITION  
P&G and Our Brands Tackle  
Bias Around the Globe
80
Always and Whisper Work to 
#EndPeriodPoverty and Keep Girls  
in School
Lack of access to period products is often 
referred to as ‘period poverty,’ and it causes girls to miss school, sports and other developmental experiences which can limit girls’ confidence and potential far beyond puberty. As a brand that has championed girls’ confidence for more than 35 years, Always launched the #EndPeriodPoverty campaign to raise awareness of the issue and encourage people around the world  
to take action.
France
Always #EndPeriodPoverty proved to be a strong campaign in France with a real impact. In partnership with Dons Solidaires, the campaign was executed with a call to action “1 pack = 1 pad donated” to keep girls in school. Millions of pads were donated in the second wave of the campaign in 2020. Argentina Along with Ruta 40, a local NGO that provides resources to ensure that students in rural schools have a quality education, Always donated one additional product for every pack of feminine pads bought in store. The donations went to girls in different schools across the country who were forced to skip classes because they couldn’t afford feminine care products, impacting their future. In six months, more than two million products were donated, benefitting almost 15,000 girls in the most vulnerable regions of Argentina. 
India
Whisper has been leveraging its voice to challenge societal barriers to menstrual hygiene in the country through path-breaking campaigns like #TouchThePickle, #SitImproper and #WhispersBreakSilence. Building on this, Whisper initiated a new campaign #KeepGirlsInSchool to prevent girls from dropping out. As part of this campaign, Whisper aimed to create awareness on how, even today, girls across India drop out of school once they hit puberty. The campaign brought to light the fact that one in five girls drop out of school each year, and many don’t even notice.
During the India Economic Summit by the World 
Economic Forum in October 2019, we led a conversation on ‘Ending Menstrual Taboos.’ We also announced our commitment to double the reach of our menstrual hygiene program and educate more than 50 million adolescent girls on menstrual hygiene by 2022.Central America and the Dominican RepublicThe #EndPeriodPoverty campaign was launched in Panama, Costa Rica, Guatemala and the Dominican Republic to deliver sanitary pads. The program also featured health, hygiene, confidence and self-esteem classes for girls at puberty. 
Always #EndPeriodPoverty made the decision to 
direct part of its donation to support vulnerable girls and women during the COVID-19 crisis and help them continue to grow and get education at home. The donations were made through United Way in the Dominican Republic, Guatemala and Panama and through Hogar Siembra y CADENA in Costa Rica. 
#EndPeriodPoverty campaign 
raises awareness of ‘period 
poverty’ and continues to help 
girls stay in school.P&G and Our Brands Tackle  
Bias Around the Globe
81
Gillette Urges Men to Show  
Their Vulnerability 
In 2019, Gillette launched its #ShavingStereotypes 
movement to challenge and redefine gender stereotypes prevalent in Indian society. In its first edition, Gillette showcased the story of two sisters, Jyoti and Neha Narayan, known as the ‘Barbershop Girls of India,’ who are inspiring the next generation  of men by redefining gender stereotypes.
Taking the movement further, this year, Gillette asked 
the question — ‘Why don’t men show their tears?’ This challenges the enduring stereotype on why men are taught to not show their emotions because it makes them seem weak. Through the heartfelt story of Lt. Col. Manoj Kumar Sinha, SM (Ret), the brand paves the way for men to rethink their notions of masculinity and strength. Gillette aims to play a role in influencing culture and set the right standards for the boys of today to be men tomorrow. 
Olay Declares Commitment to Zero  
Skin Retouching 
Women constantly face conflicting expectations about their outward appearance. In fact, in the U.S., 40% of women surveyed said they felt beauty advertisements impart unrealistic expectations, making it unclear what is actually achievable.In recognition of this, Olay declared a commitment to zero skin retouching in all of its advertising materials in the U.S. and Canada. The brand introduced the “Olay Skin Promise” logomark, which will appear on their ads to signify the skin of the women featured has not been retouched. Olay’s Skin Promise will expand to all advertisements across print, digital, TV and out of home by 2021. 
Olay also rolled out these guidelines to all influencer 
partners of the brand, doing their part to fill social feeds with images of courageous women telling the stories of their strong skin.
The Olay Skin Promise debuted with the “My Olay” 
print campaign, in which Busy Phillips, Denise Bidot and Lilly Singh were featured completely unretouched, baring their skin au naturale.Olay Disk Refreshed 
Consumers told us that the caps of Olay jars were difficult to open. In response, our Olay team gathered a diverse team of experts, operators and consumers with impaired vision or impaired fine motor skills, including our Company Accessibility Leader Sam Latif. The team realized that this was not a cap issue but rather a cover disk problem.
The team surveyed designs, made prototypes and 
evaluated options with a goal to understand and address as many pain points as possible. As a part of the design assessment, the Cambridge exclusion calculator was used to measure the visual, dexterity and cognitive skills required to use our packaging. 
Initially, it was hard to imagine such a small change 
having noticeable impact on the consumer experience, but the results of the new disk, designed to be more inclusive among consumers with low dexterity and/or low vision, is both more intuitive and easier to open.
MAN ENOUGH  P&G and Our Brands Tackle  
Bias Around the Globe
Olay is committed to 
zero skin retouching 
in all of its advertising 
materials in the U.S. 
and Canada.
82
PARTNERS & 
COMMUNITIES
83
Stepping Up Our Ongoing Efforts  
to Advance Racial Equality for All 
For years, we have used our voice as a leading advertiser to shine a light on inequality, 
highlight bias and spark dialogue that leads to understanding and action with  award-winning short films like “ The Talk ” and  “The Look .” We’ve also brought companies 
together for collective action under our Take On Race coalition.
Recognizing the moment of urgency in our society 
highlighting systemic inequalities, P&G and our brands stepped up our ongoing efforts to advance equality for all people and especially at this moment for Black and Brown Americans. We have highlighted the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on Black and Hispanic communities in America with the films “Circumstances ” and “ Estamos Unidos ” and have 
sponsored fundraising and relief efforts to help those disproportionately affected by the pandemic. We established the P&G Take On Race fund to help fuel organizations that fight for justice, advance economic opportunity, enable greater access to education and health care and make our communities more equitable. The P&G Take On Race fund supports larger, established organizations in North America like the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund , 
YWCA Stand Against Racism and the United Negro  
College Fund . It also includes smaller organizations 
that mobilize and advocate, such as Courageous  
Conversation  and groups that hold our elected  
officials more accountable. We continued our series of thought-provoking films on bias and racism with “The Choice,” which invites the often-silent majority to become allies, advocates and activists to end racial inequality. The film is accompanied by an extensive web-based resource at pg.com/takeonrace  giving people a place to start the 
journey of transforming equality from a dream into a reality. Together, we can make real lasting change when we actively work to prevent, address and rectify racial bias — individually and collectively.
THE CHOICE  
84
¡Estamos Aquí, Estamos Unidos!
P&G aspires to be a force for good and force for growth 
for Hispanic American employees, consumers and communities. We strive to provide immediate relief when needed, and to tackle the barriers that get in the way of progress, equality and inclusion. This longstanding commitment started over half a century ago and is more important than ever. This year, P&G joined forces with We Are All Human Foundation to kick off the “ Hispanic Star Time of Action ,” an 
initiative aimed at bringing together individuals and corporations to benefit Hispanics affected by COVID-19, by donating, volunteering or sharing information for faster recovery. This initiative was kicked off in May and continued through Hispanic Heritage Month. To support the effort, P&G produced and helped launch the film “Estamos Unidos.” The film illustrates the vital roles that Hispanic Americans are playing during COVID-19 and invites everyone to join the Hispanic Star movement. The Hispanic Star Alliance brings together over 200+ Hispanic organizations and top leaders, over 175+ companies who signed the Hispanic Promise, 5000+ ambassadors ready to take action, and 24 (and growing) local activation hubs across the country working together for bigger, faster impact. Our Estamos Unidos campaign helped strengthen P&G’s partnership with leading non-profit organizations providing relief to Hispanic American essential workers by supporting Hispanics in Philanthropy, United Farm Workers, Justice for Migrant Workers, the Dolores Huerta Foundation and Hispanic Star. Our support helped power 15 activation hubs across 75 cities and mobilize more than 2,000 volunteers. Across these efforts, we have helped raise more than $2 million dollars. We will keep helping and empowering the Hispanic community with our network of partners across the country so that — sooner rather than later — they can be ready to shine, again.  
¡ESTAMOS UNIDOS!  
Stepping Up Our Ongoing Efforts  
to Advance Racial Equality for All 
P&G Canada and our 
brands stepped up to 
match all donations 
to the CanadaHelps 
Black Solidarity 
Fund, up to $1 million 
Canadian dollars.CANADAHELPS  P&G Canada Matches up to $1 Million 
for CanadaHelps Black Solidarity Fund 
As part of ongoing efforts to advance equality 
for all people, especially for Black Canadians who face systemic racism and biases, P&G Canada and our brands stepped up to match donations to the CanadaHelps Black Solidarity Fund, up to $1 million Canadian dollars. This donation will help support organizations fighting for justice, advancing economic opportunity, enabling greater access to education and health care and making Canadian communities more equitable.
85
Opening New Opportunities for  
Girls in Tech 
As a corporate partner of Girls Who Code  since 2019, we 
are helping to close the gender gap in technology and 
change the image of what a programmer looks like and does. We are committed to advancing gender equality by removing barriers to STEM education for girls and economic opportunities for women in STEM fields.
During 2020, we sponsored Girls Who Code After 
School Clubs and hosted a virtual Girls Who Code  
Summer Immersion Program . Through the free,  
two-week program, a group of almost 30 girls from 11th and 12th grades learned about computer science, gaining exposure to tech jobs and joining a national sisterhood of girls who are using computer science  to become change-makers. 
P&G CIO Vittorio Cretella urged program participants to 
consider majors in Information Technology, Information Systems, Computer Science or Information Science, where females remain vastly underrepresented. Cretella encouraged the girls to be open to the more creative aspects that careers in technology can provide. “What students learn today in the classroom may become obsolete but what will not change is their capability  
to learn, be agile and curious to explore solutions.”During this year’s Super Bowl commercials, Olay partnered with Girls Who Code and five fearless women: Busy Philipps, Lilly Singh, Nicole Stott, Taraji P. Henson and Katie Couric to prove there’s enough space … in space … for women. With every mention of #MakeSpaceForWomen on Twitter, Olay donated  
$1 to Girls Who Code up to $500,000. LEADing Partnerships to Advance  
Gender Equality
As a founding partner and longstanding supporter of the Leading Executives Advancing Diversity (LEAD) Network, we joined forces with other corporations to actively attract, retain and advance women in the retail and consumer goods industry in Europe. LEAD is a platform for exchanging ideas, best practices and inspiration to help others find solutions to challenges they might be facing. We are driving our partnership with the LEAD Network in Germany, Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and the UK. This year, two new chapters were established in France and Poland. We are committed to playing our part in driving change across the world of business, starting with  our own industry. 
We joined forces to actively attract, 
retain and advance women in the 
retail and consumer goods industry  
in Europe. 
With every mention of 
#MakeSpaceForWomen on 
Twitter, Olay donated $1 (up to 
$500,000) to Girls Who Code.Removing Barriers to  
Women and Girls’ Advancement
86
TIME and P&G Reveal 100 Women  
of the Year 
In line with our aspiration to build a world free from 
gender bias, and in honor of International Women’s Day, we partnered with TIME  and award-winning 
filmmaker Alma Har’el on the groundbreaking 100 Women of the Year project, spotlighting influential women from 1920 to present day who made tremendous contributions to humanity but were often unrecognized and overshadowed throughout history. 
To recognize these women, TIME  editors embarked on 
a historic project and selected a woman to represent 
each year from 1920 to 2020, and then created a TIME  
cover to shine a light on these extraordinary women who deserve their place in history.Seneca’s 100 Women to Hear and Getting 
to Equal Podcasts
Together with the Seneca Women Podcast Network, 
iHeartRadio and iHeart Podcasts, we launched #Senecas100WomentoHear, a podcast that celebrates 100 diverse women who have shaped the present and who are designing our future. The first episode recognized women’s rights activist Sojourner Truth followed by an amazing line up of speakers, including Meghan, The Duchess of Sussex; Madeleine Albright, the first woman Secretary of State; soccer legend Abby Wambach; activist, educator and writer Brittany Packnett Cunningham; Co-Founder and CEO of All In Together Lauren Leader, and many more. To learn from these inspiring women, listen here .
As part of the Seneca Women Podcast Network, Carolyn Tastad, Group President — North America and Chief Sales Officer, and Deanna Bass, Vice President of Global Equality & Inclusion, hosted a series of provocative conversations on leadership. The episodes on “Getting to Equal” are part of the Seneca Conversations on Power and Purpose podcast and help listeners build an action plan for boosting women to 50% representation in leadership ranks. Removing Barriers to  
Women and Girls’ Advancement
87
Women’s Forum for the Economy  
and Society 
The Women’s Forum is dedicated to highlighting 
women’s voice and perspective on global issues and solutions. As a strategic partner of the Women’s Forum for the Economy & Society, P&G plays a leading role in the #Women4Business Daring Circle, a collaborative effort with WEConnect, U.N. Women and other partners of the Women’s Forum. This coalition aims to build the foundation for supplier diversity in Europe and the missing infrastructure to support women-owned businesses to grow and get more visible to corporate buyers and government. Organizations from multiple industries also attend to help create more diverse and gender responsive supply chains, serving as an accelerator for women’s economic empowerment.
At the 2019 Women’s Forum Global Meeting, we 
engaged with a variety of stakeholders and employed a range of initiatives to help break the barriers and myths that hold back women in the workplace and enable greater economic empowerment. From inclusive parental leave policies to MARC™ dialogues, we discussed how men’s engagement can accelerate closing the gender gap inside and outside the workplace. We also showcased our continued journey to shift mindsets through advertising and media, with our hero brands Gillette and Venus. P&G UK Supported Lesbian Visibility Week 
We supported the launch of DIVA’s Lesbian Visibility Week and The Visible 100 list, published in The Guardian,  which celebrated lesbians and the wider 
LGBTQ+ community, as well as showing solidarity  with all women in our P&G family.
Our Chief Equality & Inclusion Officer, Shelly McNamara, 
was featured on The Visible 100 list as an influential leader in the LGBTQ+ space, given her role in shaping culture and policies and her leadership to promote greater diversity inside and outside of P&G. Shelly was also featured in one of DIVA’s ‘TED Style Talks’ released over the week, giving her a platform to talk about her own personal experiences with visibility and to outline her experiences and E&I commitments at P&G. 
The week also gave P&G a platform to show important 
ongoing work, both supporting and celebrating the LGBTQ+ community and showing themselves as an  ally to their employees and broader communities.
WEE FARES SAYEGH VIDEO  WOMEN’S FORUM IN PARIS  WOMEN’S FORUM RECAP VIDEO  
Removing Barriers to  
Women and Girls’ Advancement
88
P&G Explores LGBTQ+ Visibility in  
Advertising With “They Will See You” 
Imagine living in a world where your story isn’t being 
told. Never seeing yourself reflected in people on TV as they navigate life. Worse yet, never seeing you or your family represented in commercials as people practice daily routines. It could feel as if you didn’t exist. This has been the reality for people in the LGBTQ+ community for decades. Only in the last few years have there been steps toward LGBTQ+ representation in advertising, but there is still work to be done. 
In 2019, we ran a commercial for Gillette that featured 
a transgender man learning to shave from his father. It was a groundbreaking depiction of a universal right-of-passage, and many LGBTQ+ activists applauded the ad. Others expressed concern about brands jumping on the bandwagon inauthentically. The questions they asked encouraged us to examine our intentions and ensure that we didn’t view this advertisement as a one-time opportunity to represent the experiences of transgender men. It’s not always easy to have these conversations in a corporate environment, but we know that visibility and proper representation matters. In the short film, “They Will See You,” we explore the history of LGBTQ+ advertising and meet inspirational people whose lives have been impacted by seeing their stories represented.Over the past decade, the number of brands featuring LGBTQ+ people in advertising, participating in Pride parades or publicly showing their support of the LGBTQ+ community has increased dramatically. Despite this increase in LGBTQ+ support, LGBTQ+ people remain substantially underrepresented in advertising. 
By speaking with a diverse range of people 
representing different points of view, we examined the role of representation, the history and challenges of LGBTQ+ representation in advertising and how visibility of the community has an impact on the lives of LGBTQ+ people and communities where they live. 
We partnered closely with GLAAD, the Transgender 
Chorus of LA and local LGBTQ+ people to share their perspectives and stories — representing all points of view and engaging in open dialogue. 
This follows P&G award-winning films produced 
with Great Big Story — “The Words Matter” and “Out of the Shadows” which looked at the history of LGBTQ+ equality inside the Company to now examine the Company’s role in being a leader for inclusion, responsible advertising and LGBTQ+ inclusion. As the number of brands that include LGBTQ+ themes and representation increases, we continue the conversation about how we can best support the community, while learning from our own to create  a better world for those around us.
THEY WILL SEE YOU  
Be Seen. Be Heard. Be Proud. 
89
Can’t Cancel Pride Raises Visibility and Funds
Pride Month gives millions of traditionally marginalized 
people the opportunity to come together every year in an unabashed celebration of who they are. Pride celebrations give voice and visibility to those who have often been overlooked and oppressed, and who — despite great strides — still struggle for equality. 
COVID-19 not only led to the disruption of 2020 
Pride events which serve as a lifeline to millions of marginalized LGBTQ+ people but also had a damaging effect on fundraising efforts LGBTQ+ organizations  rely on to survive.
P&G and our brands created “Can’t Cancel Pride: 
COVID-19 Relief Benefit for the LGBTQ+ Community” as a virtual relief effort to help raise visibility and funds for LGBTQ+ communities most impacted by COVID-19. The livestreamed event was hosted by iHeartMedia on-air personality Elvis Duran and leading LGBTQ+ activist Laverne Cox. Four million people tuned in, and the event featured today’s biggest names in culture and entertainment, including Adam Lambert, Big Freedia, Billy Porter, Katy Perry, Kim Petras, Melissa Etheridge, Sia, Ricky Martin, Kermit the Frog, Matt Bomer and  Neil Patrick Harris.
More than $4 million was raised to benefit six 
LGBTQ+ charities: The Trevor Project, GLAAD, 
Outright International, CenterLink, Sage and 
the National Black Justice Coalition.Be Seen. Be Heard. Be Proud. 
90
P&G Employees Volunteer to Be Their Eyes 
As P&G steps up to support communities around the 
world, we want to be as inclusive as possible. Together with our charity and broadcast partners for the special COVID-19 relief events Global Citizen’s One World: Together At Home and BET Saving Our Selves, we joined forces with Be My Eyes — a unique platform which connects sighted volunteers with the blind and low-vision community to help navigate everyday life.
Thanks to passionate P&G colleagues who volunteered 
to provide personalized live audio description, people with low and no vision were able to follow and enjoy these entertaining programs using the Be My Eyes app. P&G volunteers were on call, ready to describe anything users wanted to know about the event. They read the lineup, helped access streams and content and answered questions about what was going on in the broadcast. 
This partnership is one example of how our employees 
are stepping up as a force for good. We believe there is always a better, more innovative way to create a more inclusive environment for everyone. That’s why we’re focused on creating superior experiences with our brands, products and communication that are accessible by everyone.
“ T here were over 10 volunteers assisting 
me through the eight-hour concert,” one 
of the Be My Eyes users said. “Describing 
from the first opening songs to the last 
which were both tearful moments of joy 
and connection for me! Almost like a virtual 
family in my home. The best night out ‘in.’”
— Be My Eyes User
“ T his experience provided a lot of insight on 
the daily lives of people who are blind or 
low vision. It helped me realize that I still 
have so much to learn as an ally of people 
with disabilities.” 
— Be My Eyes VolunteerWe believe there is always  
a better, more innovative  
way to create a more  
inclusive environment  
for everyone. Creating Access and Opportunities
91
Partnerships to Promote People  
with Disabilities 
In Spain, we collaborated with Fundación ONCE  
“Oportunidad al Talento” program to promote 
education and access to knowledge for young university students with disabilities. More than 100 grants were awarded to students with disabilities as a result of the collaboration of more than 20 companies including P&G. We also partnered with Randstad’s program Integrados to help facilitate access to employment for people with disabilities, working  with them through Ability Campus. Thanks to our support and commitment, Randstad Foundation  in Madrid reached out to more than 1,000 people. Supplier Diversity for Equality 
Every year since 2008, P&G has spent more than  $2 billion with diverse-owned businesses globally. Despite the supply chain challenges in 2020, the team rallied together and surpassed the two billion total again and added 21 diverse-owned suppliers to our supplier ecosystem. We have introduced a new supplier for a corporate call center, diverse-owned agencies and a chemical manufacturer for our Fabric and Home Care brands. It takes a lot of work to make this happen. Year after year, our Purchases colleagues work with all functions to grow current diverse suppliers and bring new ones onboard. We have a passionate group of people that invest even more time attending conferences and events to meet with hundreds of businesses, and then they introduce the best of who and what they find to our buyers.  We are constantly seeking businesses that can add unique value to P&G and our brands. 
P&G’s Supplier Citizenship team also contributed 
to several campaigns focused on helping small and diverse-owned businesses rebuild after COVID-19.  This included the Cincy Card Connection, in collaboration with the Cincinnati Center City Development Corporation (3CDC) to find new ways to support local businesses in the hometown of our global headquarters, Ohio Minority Business Enterprises (MBE) with certification costs, and the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) “In This Together” campaign to help expedite recovery efforts within the Black business community. We know it is not just about working with diverse-owned businesses that have scale for our global brands, but also investing in the pipeline of smaller businesses to help them get experience with small opportunities, teaching curriculum on business strategy and leadership, and connecting them with peers and partners who could also utilize their products or services.
This is a team effort across all functions, being led 
from the top, to ensure our supply chain and external ecosystem also reflect the diversity of our consumers to meet the diverse business needs we have every day, everywhere.
Creating Access and Opportunities
92
At P&G, environmental sustainability is embedded  
in how we do business. We have a responsibility 
to make the world better — through the products we create and the positive impact our brands and Company can have in communities worldwide. We’ve established ambitious goals to minimize our environmental footprint, to innovate with the best  
and safest ingredients from both science and nature and to create products that make responsible consumption irresistible for people everywhere. Environmental  
Sustainability
93
Environmental Sustainability
Message from Virginie Helias  
2020 Goals   
Ambition 2030   
Brands  
  P ackages that Use Less,  
Recycle or Refill More  
  B rands Help Save  
Energy at Home  
 W ater-Efficient Products  
  I nnovating for More  
Efficient Solutions  
  B uilding Even Greater Trust  
Through Transparency,  
Ingredient Innovation and  
Sharing Our Safety Science  Supply Chain  
 C limate & Energy  
 Transportation  
 Water  
 Waste  
 S triving for Circular Solutions  
 P artnering with Suppliers  
 Forestry  
 P alm Oil  
Society  
  K eeping Plastic Waste  
Out of the Environment    P rotecting Water for  
People and Nature  
 Climate  
Employees  
Tracking Our Progress  
Facilities / LEED  
Environmental Resource  
and Waste Summary  
Global Measurement and  
Additional Operational Data  
94
VIRGINIE HELIAS
Chief Sustainability OfficerMessage from  
Virginie Helias
Much has changed in our world this year. The global pandemic 
has forced us to adjust our habits — spending more time at home 
where we’re consuming more electricity, accumulating more waste 
and using more water. While these changes were necessary, they 
presented an opportunity for all of us to reevaluate habits and 
routines in the home. 
Studies during the pandemic show that a majority of people in the 
U.S. and Europe would value help from brands on ways to be more 
environmentally friendly at home. Consumers are demonstrating 
a renewed focus on maintaining a healthier and more sustainable 
lifestyle for the long-term — one that can positively impact our 
home, our community and our planet. 
While our world has drastically changed, P&G’s commitment to 
sustainability has remained strong. We are focused on developing 
innovations and products that make responsible consumption 
irresistible. We continue to reduce our footprint and strive for 
more circular approaches in our supply chain. We’re building 
partnerships with external organizations to combat some of 
the most challenging and complex issues we face today. And 
most importantly, our employees are committed to ensure that 
sustainability is built into their work, not bolted on.
Our consumers drive us each day to be a force for good and a 
force for growth. We are committed to helping them through this time. While I can’t predict what lies ahead, I am confident that our 
employees, our Company and the partners we’ve joined forces with 
will accelerate progress to protect our planet, our home.
95
In 2010, P&G declared a set of goals 
and commitments to reduce our environmental footprint across climate, water and waste. Since then our business has continued to grow, while our teams have developed smarter, more efficient ways to operate. As we close out 2020, we are proud to report that 14 out of 16 goals we set back in 2010 have been achieved. For the two goals we did not achieve, our efforts still drove significant progress — reducing packaging material usage by more than 200,000 metric tons and reducing energy consumption by 19%, while in the process saving hundreds of millions of dollars.
Reduce energy use at P&G facilities  
by 20% per unit of production by 2020
P&G was able to reduce energy use per unit of 
production by 19%. While this was just short of goal, we saved hundreds of millions of dollars on our energy conservation efforts in the process.
Have 100% of the virgin wood fibers 
used in our tissue/towel and absorbent 
hygiene products be third-party 
certified by 2015
This target was achieved in 2015, and we have 
maintained 100% certification since that time.Ensure plants are powered by  
30% renewable energy
P&G was able to reach 31% renewable energy. This 
result was a combination of reducing our overall energy use while increasing our use of renewable energy sources.
Implement palm oil commitments
We achieved our 2020 goal of 100% Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certified for all palm oil and palm oil derivatives. We’re on track to deliver 100% RSPO for palm kernel oil and palm kernel oil derivatives used in our brands by the end of 2021, 12 months ahead of our previous commitment.
Create technologies by 2020 to 
substitute top petroleum-derived raw 
materials with renewable materials as 
cost and scale permit
This target was achieved in 2018 when we announced 
we had developed the capability to substitute our top petroleum-derived materials (plastic resin, cleaning agents and acrylates) with renewable materials.Reduce truck transportation 
kilometers by 20% per unit of 
production
This goal was achieved several years early,  
and we reduced kilometers by more than 25%.
Reduce absolute greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions by 30% by 2020
P&G was able to reduce absolute GHG by 52%.  
We significantly overdelivered on this goal by 
accelerating efforts on renewable electricity.CLIMATE
We targeted a 30% reduction in  
Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions by 2020, 
and we overdelivered by achieving a
52% reduction.Ensure 70% of machine loads  
are low-energy cycles
This goal was achieved in 2019 when we reported 70% 
of machine loads were being done in low-energy cycles.2020 Goals
96
2020 Goals
Provide one billion people with access 
to water-efficient products
In 2019, we achieved our goal to provide one billion 
people with access to water-efficient products.  
The end of the decade doesn’t mean the end of  this important work. P&G brands, like our Waterl<ss hair care brand, will continue to look for opportunities to help consumers reduce in-home water use.
Reduce water use in manufacturing 
facilities by 20% per unit of production  
with conservation focused on water-stressed regions
P&G has exceeded this goal since 2015. This past  
year, P&G achieved a reduction of 27% per unit  of production. Have 100% of our paper packaging 
contain either recycled or third-party 
certified virgin content by 2020
We achieved 99.5% with plans in place to address the 
remaining small fraction (0.5%) of our supply. We will continue to monitor and report the status.Double use of recycled resin in  
plastic packaging
We achieved this goal in 2020, using 52,800 tons  
of recycled resin, which exceeded our target level  
of 52,000 tons.
Ensure 90% of product packaging is  
either recyclable or programs are in 
place to create the ability to recycle it
This goal was achieved in 2019. We will continue to 
report progress versus our 2030 goal of 100% recyclable or reusable packaging globally.WATER
100% of plants achieve zero 
manufacturing waste to landfill  
by 2020
This goal was achieved in 2020. We estimate that  
the cumulative cost savings from this effort was  more than $2 billion.WASTE
Reduce packaging by 20% per  
consumer use
We have avoided the use of more than 200,000 metric 
tons of packaging since 2010. While we consider this a success, we also acknowledge this is only a 12% reduction. Market driven headwinds negatively impacted our results. This included customer requests for lower case counts that increased the amount of corrugate per consumer use in some markets. Optimizing our packaging designs will remain a  key focus going forward. Conduct pilot studies in both the 
developed and developing world 
to understand how to eliminate 
landfilled/dumped solid waste 
We have implemented a wide range of pilot studies 
and continue to work in collaboration with many organizations to drive progress towards our 2030  
goals on packaging and waste.
With 10 years of progress and 
14 of 16 goals 
achieved,
there’s still more work to do.
97
Today, we have new ways to measure the 
impact of our actions and new tools and 
technologies to manage how we affect the environment. We also have years of experience that help us refresh our approach to environmental stewardship and evolve what it means to be “environmentally sustainable.” In 2018, we took a hard look and refocused our energy toward 2030, with a new set of goals and an embrace of new practices intended not just to reduce our footprint and conserve precious resources, but to help restore the world, ultimately leaving it better than we found it.Ambition 2030
98
Use the power of innovation and our 
brands to enable sustainable lifestyles 
and drive positive impacts
• 100% of our leadership brands will enable and inspire 
responsible consumption.
• 100% of our packaging will be recyclable or reusable.
• We will reduce our use of virgin petroleum plastic in packaging by 50%.
• We will build even greater trust through transparency, ingredient innovation and sharing our safety science.
99
Brands
Information on our leadership brands’ 
efforts to enable and inspire responsible consumption can be found here: 
Fairy Turkey Calls for No Food Waste 
Fairy recognizes the important role it plays for families, 
the food culture, and environmental sustainability in Turkey, launching a new social responsibility project called “No Waste.” 
Globally, one-third of all food produced goes to waste. 
When food goes to the landfill and rots, it produces methane — a greenhouse gas even more potent than carbon dioxide. Food waste also threatens water resources when trash makes its way through rivers  and oceans.  
In light of this, Fairy celebrated its 10th anniversary  
by supporting the fight against food waste,  educating consumers and other stakeholders on  food sustainability and how to reduce food waste.  Fairy Turkey is helping the Food Rescue Association collect food surplus in supermarkets and donating it to people in need. So far, donations have allowed the association to double their logistics capacity, resulting in help for 660,000 people in need.
We are also giving back to the community as a part of 
our anniversary celebration. We donated food baskets to 10 million families helping approximately 50 million people during Ramadan with Fairy products.
Embracing Responsible Beauty
As a company serving consumers around the world, our responsibility is to help people understand what to look for and why. This year our Beauty brands declared a set of intentional choices — five interconnected guiding principles — to address the needs of consumers across quality and performance, safety, sustainability, transparency, and equality and inclusion. This conviction is what provides clarity to our teams and our consumers and ensures we are a force for growth and a force for good in the world. 
Click here to learn more about our Responsible Beauty 
approach, our goals, our contributions, our partners and our brands in action. 
Fairy Turkey celebrated  
its 10th anniversary by 
supporting the fight against 
food waste and giving  
back to the community.
RESPONSIBLE BEAUTY APPROACH BRANDS
100
AIM NUDGING FOR GOOD AWARD  Brands
Pampers: Recycling Used Baby Diapers
Diaper recycling technology has been developed 
by FaterSmart, a joint venture of P&G and Angelini in Italy. It is operational in Italy, and we are exploring how to expand in other countries. For example, we are running a diaper waste collection pilot in Amsterdam in partnership with the municipality and others. We placed 12 smart bins near day-care centers and drug stores in three neighborhoods in Amsterdam. Parents can register for the program via a new Pampers recycling app. 
Since the start of the program in 2019, more than 600 
families have registered and joined. In total, more  
than 43 tons of diaper waste — equaling more than 200,000 diapers — have been collected for recycling.  
It is recognized and funded by the E.U. through the  
Bio-Based Industries (BBI) project, EMBRACED. The diaper waste collection pilot in Amsterdam was honored with the AIM Nudging For Goods Award 2019. AIM is the European Brands Association, and awards brands and programs that promote the “Nudging for Good” concept. This recognition inspires us to do more — we are committed to launch diaper recycling in 10 cities by 2030.BRANDS
Pampers is committed  
to launch diaper recycling  
in 10 cities by 2030.
43+ tons
of diaper waste have been  
collected for recycling.
101
Recycling Razors with Gillette  
and TerraCycle
Gillette and Gillette Venus, in partnership with 
international recycling leader TerraCycle, announced for the first time that all models of razors, blades and disposable razors can now be recycled in the UK thanks to the launch of a new recycling initiative. Once collected, the used products are broken down and separated by material. Plastics are cleaned and recycled into pellets which can then be used to make new products, while metal materials are sent for smelting into new alloys. As market leaders, Gillette and Gillette Venus are dedicated to helping improve the sustainability of the category; therefore, the recycling program will also accept blades, razors  and disposable razors from any brand in the UK. Period Products with Environmental 
Change at Their Heart
Earlier this year, Always and Tampax launched their 
Cotton Protection collections. The Always Cotton Protection pads and liners are made with a 100% organic cotton top sheet, and the Tampax Cotton Protection tampons are made with 100% organic cotton core and an applicator made from 90% plant-based plastic, derived from sugar cane. Thanks to the blockchain technology applied in Tampax Cotton Protection, a consumer can scan the QR code on the pack to learn more about the cotton’s origin and trace its journey, from when and where it was harvested to how it was made into the tampon. This new range is just one of the ways Always and Tampax are offering trusted protection, so users of our products can feel confident in their choice.
Four Gillette hero packs are 
recyclable.
BrandsBRANDS
102
Commitment. New ideas. Creative thinking. P&G brands around the world are pursuing a  
range of solutions with the aim to make packaging more sustainable. As a Company, we are working to ensure 100% of our packaging will be recyclable or reusable by 2030 and  to reducing virgin plastic in packaging by 50% by 2030. We’re innovating, collaborating  
and taking action to unleash the circular economy across our portfolio of brands.
As stated in our 2019 Citizenship Report, the scope of 
our Ambition 2030 goal of 100% recyclable or reusable packaging covers consumer packaging only, as this is what we believe is most meaningful to drive change in our industry. Shippers and boxes that transport products to our retailers, which are predominantly widely-collected and recycled cardboard corrugate, are no longer in our tracking. On this basis, our percentage of recyclable or reusable consumer packaging Is currently about 55%, well on the way to our 2030 goal. 
Journey to Reduce Virgin Plastic 
Packaging 
Our brands have programs in place to drive us to our 
Company-wide Ambition 2030 goal of 50% reduction in virgin petroleum-based plastic packaging, and some of these efforts are highlighted in the Brand 2030  section 
of this report. While we announced this goal in 2019 and are in the early phases of implementing plans, we can report that our progress to date represents about a 4% reduction in virgin petroleum-based plastic packaging. We plan to achieve our reduction goal via light weighting, using alternative materials, and increasing recycled content — including post-consumer resin, commonly referred to as PCR. PCR is recycled plastic that has been collected after consumer use  and is used to create new products and packaging. 
Pledging to increase the amount of PCR in our 
packages is good and innovating with partners to recycle and reuse plastic in laundry and shampoo bottles will accelerate progress. By developing and fostering end-markets, we help ensure there is demand for recycled materials which would otherwise be destined for landfill. This helps unleash the  circular economy. 
In FY19/20, we used approximately 705,000 metric  
tons of plastic packaging. Of this, 52,800 metric  tons were post-consumer resin. Resin types are  summarized below.In 2020, our Fabric Care business in Europe announced a significant increase of recycled plastic in its packaging, with leading brand Ariel increasing recycled content in liquid detergent bottles up to 50%. Lenor fabric conditioner also announced it will reach 100% PCR plastic in its transparent PET bottles. By increasing the amount of recycled plastic in Ariel and Lenor bottles, P&G will save the amount of virgin plastic required to produce one line of detergent bottles to go around the earth per year.
Already 90% of Pantene, Head & Shoulders, Aussie and 
Herbal Essences bottles sold in Europe are made of up to 25% PCR. In a new agreement, P&G Hair Care in Europe has begun increasing the use of Indorama’s Ventures circular PET resin — starting with transparent Pantene bottles.Packages that Use Less,  
Recycle or Refill More
Working toward 100% of our  
packaging being recyclable  
or reusable by 2030.
Resin Used in Our Packaging in FY19/20
Resin Type Percent
PE 46%
PET 20%
PP 23%
Other 11%*
* Rounded up from 10.496 for total to equal 100.BRANDS
103
Loop 
Loop is a new shopping platform where consumers 
order household products like detergent, toothpaste, shampoo and more in customized, brand-specific durable packaging. When finished with the product, the packaging is collected, cleaned, refilled and reused — creating a revolutionary circular shopping system. Officially introduced at the World Economic Forum in January 2019, P&G brands’ participation in Loop quickly advanced from an idea to two full-fledged test markets in New York and Paris. 
With over a year of Loop learnings across the New York 
and Paris pilot markets under our belt and another test kicking off in Tokyo, P&G is looking ahead to the next phase of e-commerce expansion and in-store pilots. Cascade, Pantene and Tide have been among the most frequently ordered Loop products, while the addition of Herbal Essences shampoo and conditioner in the Paris test and Oral B Clic toothbrushes with recyclable heads to both New York and Paris test markets has provided further opportunity to learn  and optimize.
During the COVID-19 lockdown, Loop growth stayed 
consistent with e-commerce channels and retail trends. Loop cleaning products and long shelf-life pantry products are significantly up. Consumers surveyed feel reassured by the professional cleaning  of refilled packages.Testing New Packaging 
Materials
In May 2020, Old Spice and 
Secret became the first major brands to introduce an all-paper tube package for select aluminum-free deodorants in the U.S. The new packages were co-designed with consumers interested in cutting back on plastic waste and sold in 500 Walmart stores in the U.S. The paper tube package, made of 90% recycled paper, is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council and features a “push up” design that replaced some of the plastic stick deodorant cannisters. 
Safeguard Philippines Replaces Plastic 
Overwraps with Recycled Paper
The Philippines has one of the highest rates of plastic 
leakage to the ocean in the world and suffers from plastic waste littering its city streets. In order to help address this issue, Safeguard Philippines has taken meaningful action to reduce plastic packaging. The market-leading antibacterial soap brand ditched its plastic overwraps used for bar soaps to use recycled paper board cartons instead. This packaging change eliminated a whopping 66 metric tons of plastic laminate a year, equating to 8,500 kilometers worth  
of plastic packaging waste.Refill and Reuse More Bottles
As of 2021, Head & Shoulders, Pantene, Herbal Essences and Aussie will enable 200 million European households 1 to recycle, reduce and 
reuse. The leading beauty brands will launch a refill system for their shampoo, thanks to a new reusable 100% aluminium bottle and recyclable 2 
refill pouch, made using 60% less plastic (per mL versus standard brand bottle). P&G Beauty is on track to reduce virgin plastic usage by 50% in shampoos and conditioners bottles by the end of 2021 3, where through collective efforts 
to reduce, reuse and recycle, it will result in 300 million fewer virgin plastic bottles being produced yearly.
Packages that Use Less,  
Recycle or Refill MoreBRANDS
1 Source: Kantar Worldpanel
2  W here collected. Not recyclable in Belgium, Ireland, Switzerland 
due to lack of local recycling facilities
3 OND’21 vs 2016 
104
P&G reaches five billion people through our brands, and with this scale comes a 
responsibility to give consumers the power to reduce their own carbon footprints  with products that are designed to help save energy. 
Washing Clothes
More than 60% of a laundry detergent’s footprint is 
in the consumer use phase, mostly related to the energy used to heat the water. Ariel and Tide have been optimizing detergent formulas for high efficiency in low-temperature washing and inspiring positive “Turn to 30” and “Cold Water Wash” laundry behaviors. The 2020 goal to have 70% of machine loads be low-energy cycle loads has been achieved by educating consumers over the last 10 years on the benefits of low-energy wash cycles. P&G estimates that since 2015, the avoided emissions from U.S. consumers increasing their use of low-energy laundry cycles have been roughly 15 million metric tons of carbon dioxide, which 
is equivalent to taking three million cars off the road.
Washing Dishes
Busting a popular myth, Cascade is showing 
consumers how the dishwasher is designed to be more water and energy efficient than washing in the sink. Cascade and Fairy Automatic Dish Washing Tablets allow consumers to skip pre-wash and save the water and energy needed to heat the water. Fairy and Dawn dishwashing liquid’s grease-cutting power enables water and energy savings: by reducing the water temperature 20°C (36°F), consumers can save up to 50% of carbon dioxide of the total footprint every wash.
Leveraging the power of our brands and collaborating 
with our value chain partners has been, and will remain, a key part of our climate change efforts.Brands Help Save Energy at Home
Since 2015, the avoided emissions from  
U.S. consumers increasing their use of  
low-energy laundry cycles have been
roughly 15 million 
metric tons of CO 2.
BRANDS
105
In 2019, we achieved our goal to provide one billion people with access to water-efficient 
products. Cascade, Tide, Downy, Swiffer, Pantene, H&S, Herbal Essences and others brought their innovative formulas to consumers all over the world to enable people to reduce in-home water use during everyday household activities. The end of the decade doesn’t mean the end of this important work, and our brands continue to look for opportunities to reduce in-home water use and communicate with consumers about ways they can help.
Cascade 
Cascade is one of the first P&G brands to address the 
issue of water scarcity through relevant consumer messaging and support of impactful on-the-ground projects. The “Do It Every Night” ad campaign is working to convert consumers in the U.S. from handwashing to using the dishwasher, which has  the potential to reduce household water usage  across millions of American homes. 
Cascade will support two projects in the Sacramento 
River basin through the Change the Course initiative. 
The projects will help to restore millions of gallons of freshwater to river systems in this important water-stressed region. Cascade’s commitment will help P&G progress toward our goal to protect water for people and nature in priority basins. Waterl<ss
This year we qualified a new P&G product line born out of the need to look and feel great even when water is scarce. The Waterl<ss brand was created to meet the needs of women who live under water scarcity conditions, leveraging Cape Town, South Africa, as an incubation market in 2019 and launching in North America in January 2020. The Waterl<ss brand lineup is designed to enable consumers to style their hair without the need of water. The collective Waterl<ss lineup qualifies as water efficient and is accessible  to more than 16 million people in the U.S. Water-Efficient Products 
WATCH ‘DO IT EVERY NIGHT’ 
BRANDS
106
P&G Brands and 
Technologies Receive  
Solar Impulse Efficient 
Solutions Label 
During FY19/20, P&G has been a 
proud partner of the Solar Impulse Foundation (SIF), a nonprofit organization created by Swiss psychiatrist and balloonist Bertrand Piccard to fulfill his vision for the worlds of exploration and innovation to contribute to sustainable development. The Solar Impulse Efficient Solutions Label (1000 Efficient Solutions) has already granted certification to more than 750 solutions in the domains of Clean Water & Sanitation, Affordable & Clean Energy, Industry Innovation & Infrastructure, Sustainable Cities & Communities, Responsible Consumption & Production certified to protect the environment in a scalable and profitable way. 
Over the past year, the SIF has been working closely 
with, or is endorsed by, a number of high-profile international institutions, states and cities around the world to facilitate the selection, funding and implementation of the 1000 solutions. As part of this partnership with SIF, P&G has supported their work with a trained and qualified pool of 36 P&G R&D experts assessing the novel solutions and technologies.To date P&G has obtained six labelled solutions for the following brands or technologies: Ariel Cold Wash, Fairycology technologies, Holy Grail Intelligent Sorting technology, Purecycle polyprolylene advanced recycling technology, Absorbent Hygiene Products recycling with Fatersmart and Professional concentrated cleaning product technologies.
The objective of Bertrand Piccard is to accredit  
1000 Efficient Solutions (expected in early 2021)  at which point he will begin his campaign with  heads of States and Governments to promote  the implementation of the solutions and impact legislation for more sustainable consumption. 
Innovating for More  
Efficient Solutions
BRANDS
107
At P&G, nothing is more important than ensuring our 
products are safe for consumers and the environment. Providing people the information they need to make informed choices while continually improving our product portfolio with new varieties they seek is a focus for the Company and our brands. Our goal is to provide information about our ingredients which is clear, reliable and accessible.
Throughout our history, P&G has provided products 
of superior value and performance, using safe, high-quality ingredients. Innovation with ingredients is an ever-evolving area where we invest many resources to develop new options and continually consider what  is possible. 
Our brand websites offer more information than 
ever before about our ingredients, making it easy to understand a product’s ingredients, as well as what we don’t use. In North America, we started listing the ingredients for our formulated products in SmartLabel™ in 2018. In 2020, we delivered our expanded transparency commitment in North America by adding the ingredients in our product fragrance formulas down to 0.01%. 
We’ve expanded our transparency efforts to include 
more information online via videos and other content to explain the safety process we follow to ensure all our products are safe to use as directed. We are working every day to provide the information consumers expect to earn and maintain thier trust in P&G and our brands. 
For more information and brand examples on how 
we are building trust through transparent ingredient innovation and sharing our safety science, click the button below.
Building Even Greater Trust Through 
Transparency, Ingredient Innovation and Sharing Our Safety Science 
INGREDIENT TRANSPARENCY
BRANDS
108
Reduce our footprint and strive  
for circular solutions
• We will purchase 100% renewable electricity globally,  
cut GHG emissions in half at P&G sites and be carbon 
neutral for the decade.
• Our sites will deliver a 35% increase in water efficiency and source at least five billion liters of water from  
circular sources.
• We will advance at least 10 significant supply chain partnerships to drive circularity on climate, water or waste.
• We will protect and enhance the forests we depend upon.
 –  W e will partner to increase the area of certified 
forests globally while working to strengthen certification systems.
 –  W e will play a leadership role in efforts to develop 
a Forest Positive  approach for the forest products 
industry that is based on sound science and delivers forest health benefits.
• We will improve livelihoods of palm smallholders by increasing yields from existing lands.
109
FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20Climate & EnergySUPPLY CHAINFY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBU
Millions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20
LLOYD’S REGISTER QUALITY ASSURANCE  Our GHG emissions data has been verified  
by an external third party, Lloyd’s Register 
Quality Assurance (LRQA).
110
Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions — Exceeding  
Commitments and Accelerating Progress 
Recognizing the urgent need to address climate 
change in 2020, P&G accelerated the Company’s commitments to reduce Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions, including a new commitment to be carbon neutral  
for the decade. This included the expanded use of renewable electricity in U.S., Canada and Europe which enabled us to achieve a 52% reduction in our Scope 1 & 2 emissions, greatly exceeding our 2020 goal of 30%. We will continue progressing toward our 2030 goal to use 100% purchased renewable electricity in the remaining regions and we will take further steps to reduce GHG emissions from thermal energy, specifically natural gas. 
Even though we’ve exceeded our Ambition 2030 goal 
to reduce absolute emissions across our operations by 50% versus 2010, our work is by no means complete. Science suggests the world needs to emit zero GHG emissions by the middle of the century in order to mitigate the most serious consequence of climate change. For P&G, while we are well on our way to utilizing 100% purchased renewable electricity, the next big challenge is reducing and eventually eliminating emissions from natural gas. There are significant hurdles that need to be overcome. With that in mind, P&G partnered with 18 other manufacturers and local governments to create the Renewable Thermal Collaborative . This coalition is committed to scaling  
up renewable heating and cooling at their facilities  in order to dramatically cut carbon emissions. Renewable Thermal CollaborativeOrganizations like the Renewable Thermal Collaborative will help create renewable sources that are sustainable, scalable and cost-competitive.
WWF Climate Savers
WWF Climate Savers is a program to enable leading companies to collaborate and accelerate their efforts  to address climate change.
For additional perspective on climate change 
implications that could be relevant for the Company and the steps we are taking to address them, please see the following report that was informed by the Task Force for Climate Related Financial Disclosure guidelines. Climate & Energy
Our Climate Milestones
2010Started with 30% Renewable Energy 
commitment
2013 Announced Albany Green Energy project
2014 Announced Tyler Bluff Wind Farm
201530% absolute reduction in GHG emissions (an SBTi-approved 2 degree solution)* 
201950% absolute reduction in GHG emissions (an SBTi-approved 2 degree solution)* 
2020Commitment that our global operations will be carbon neutral for the decade
P&G CLIMATE POLICY  * T his is a target validated by the Science Based Targets Initiative that is 
aligned with pathways that maintain global warming well below 2 deg CSUPPLY CHAIN
RENEWABLE THERMAL COLLABORATIVE  
WWF CLIMATE SAVERS  
P&G TCFD REPORT  
111
Energy Efficiency
P&G made significant progress toward meeting our 
2020 goal to reduce energy use at our facilities by 20% per unit of production. We were able to reduce energy use per unit of production by 19%. While this was just short of our goal, our energy conservation efforts significantly reduced our emissions while enabling hundreds of millions of dollars in cost savings over the last decade. Furthermore, our manufacturing sites, offices and tech centers continue to improve how we utilize energy to run our operations. This important work has allowed us to decouple business growth from GHG emissions. While our production volumes have continued to significantly increase, our absolute energy consumption has remained relatively flat over the last five years. 
Renewable Energy
P&G has achieved our 2020 goal to utilize 30% renewable energy. This is a significant increase versus 2019 as P&G is now purchasing 100% renewable electricity for all our operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe, which make up our largest markets. These renewable electricity contracts have accelerated our progress toward our goal to utilize 100% renewable electricity by 2030.
The renewable energy being used by P&G comes from 
a diverse set of sources including geothermal, solar, wind, biomass and hydro with a mix of on-site and off-site generation. This includes our wind farm project in Tyler Bluff, Texas, which offsets 100% of the electricity needed for our Fabric and Home Care facilities in the U.S., and the on-site combined heat and power biomass facility in Albany, Georgia, which provides 100% of the Bounty and Charmin steam requirements at this plant.
The work ahead will be to bring renewable electricity 
to sites in Asia and South America, including countries that do not have well-developed markets for renewable electricity. We are partnering with WWF and the Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance to tackle these challenges. Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA)REBA is a membership association for large-scale energy buyers seeking to procure renewable energy across the U.S.
P&G’S GLOBAL JOURNEY TO 
100% RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY
To learn more about P&G’s sustainability commitments, visit: us.pg.com/environmental-sustainability/SHIGA, JAPAN
This SK-II manufacturing 
plant purchases 100% renewable electricity to reduce their footprint and that of their customers.EUSKIRCHEN, GERMANY
Our Baby Care facility uses 100% renewable electricity to produce Pampers for multiple countries across Europe.
TAICANG, CHINA
Designed around the concept of a Chinese water garden, this site uses 100% wind electricity to produce Beauty and Fabric Care products.Procter & Gamble's new goal to be carbon neutral for the decade will have an impact on a global scale. As part of this, 
we are committed to purchasing 100% renewable electricity by 2030. Our sites within the U.S., Canada, and most of 
Europe are already using 100% renewable electricity today, representing over 70% of our purchased electricity globally. 
Over the next few years, we'll continue to innovate, invest, and transition to renewable electricity globally. That way we can 
ensure ALL of our 140+ sites in nearly 40 countries can actively provide consumers more sustainable choices at the shelf.
IT’S OUR PLANET. OUR HOME. AND OUR WINDOW IS NOW.
EXAMPLES:
ALBANY, GEORGIA
This co-located combined 
heat and power biomass facility uses locally sourced renewable fuels to provide 100% of the Bounty and Charmin steam requirements at this site.
TYLER BLUFF, TEXAS
Our wind farm offsets 100% of the electricity used by P&G’s Fabric and Home Care facilities across the US and Canada.
IRAPUATO, MEXICO
The Gillette Milenio plant uses 100% wind electricity to make blades and razors.
Sites using renewable electricity
Sites using conventional electricity
Climate & Energy
RENEWABLE ENERGY BUYERS ALLIANCE SUPPLY CHAIN
112
Reducing Scope 1 & 2 Emissions 
Brazil’s Louveira Plant Reduces Its Footprint
Building on our legacy of environmental leadership, the Louveira site in Brazil made significant progress toward its ambitious environmental goals. The site developed a Sustainability Committee across multiple departments in order to focus on improving our footprint. This focused effort helped the Louveira site achieve a 34% improvement in energy efficiency in the last four years through a range of individual efficiency improvements. This progress has been recognized as a leader both inside the Company and externally as a leading example of sustainable operations. 
Mexico’s Millenio Plant is Recognized for Efficiency
P&G’s Millenio site in Mexico has been recognized for four years with the National Energy Efficiency Award given out by the Mexico Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining. The site improved energy efficiency by 8% in the last year. This was achieved by upgrading air compressors to variable capacity, upgrading lighting controls to take better advantage of daylight and occupancy in addition to implementing energy management systems to keep processes running at base condition with minimal losses. Climate & EnergySUPPLY CHAIN
113
Scope 3 GHG Emissions 
Almost all of our Scope 3 emissions come from just four 
categories — purchased goods and services, upstream and downstream transportation and distribution, use of sold product, and end of life treatment of sold product. Of these, the “use phase” of our products, especially those that use hot water during consumer use, is our single greatest opportunity for Scope 3 emissions.Given these four categories account for more than 99% of Scope 3 emissions, we focused this year’s data update on those categories and derived new estimates for them using life cycle assessment (LCA) data and calendar year 2019 production volumes. Findings were consistent with prior years, indicating consumer use of our products remains our greatest opportunity area. The business travel estimate includes commercial airline travel by employees that was managed by our primary outside travel agencies. Travel arranged by other agencies was not covered in the calculation.
1 Calendar year 2019 estimate from LCA data
2 FY16/17 estimate
3 Scope limited to material sent to landfill
4 Covers period July 1, 2019 – June 30, 2020Climate & Energy
Scope 3 Categories Tons CO2e
Purchased goods and services 17,637,0001
Upstream and downstream 
transportation and distribution5,637,0001 
Capital goods 246,5082
Fuel and energy activities 495,3982
Waste generated in operations 9,0353
Business travel 124,8724
Employee commuting 117,0002
Upstream leased assets Not material
Processing of sold product Not material
Use of sold product 208,932,0001
End of life treatment of  sold product14,041,0001
Downstream leased assets Not material
Franchises Not material
Investments Not materialSUPPLY CHAIN
114
P&G will improve its  
global upstream finished  
product freight emissions  
efficiency 50% by 2030  
versus a 2020 baseline.TransportationSUPPLY CHAIN
Reducing Our Scope 3 Emissions
As other sectors decrease their reliance on oil and gas, 
the fossil fuel dependent transport sector is predicted to become the most carbon-intensive sector by 2040. Without intervention, global freight transport emissions will more than double by 2050 compared to 2015.* 
As one of the world’s largest consumer products 
companies, P&G ships a significant amount of product. In 2010, P&G set a public goal to improve Truck Transportation kilometers per unit of production by 20% by 2020. We well exceeded this goal, delivering and maintaining more than 25% efficiency improvement already by 2016. This by improving vehicle fill rate, optimizing distribution routes and driving increased use of multi-modal transportation. 
Clearly, this goal was a strong start but did not 
directly link to emissions. In 2016, the Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC) developed the first global emissions framework called the GLEC Framework (version 2 in 2019). This framework prescribes a globally recognized methodology for harmonized calculation and reporting of the logistics GHG footprint across the multi-modal supply chain, in alignment with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the UN-led Global Green Freight Action Plan and CDP reporting. P&G is committed to continue our sustainability journey, by adopting the GLEC reporting framework for transportation emissions and setting a new 2030 emissions goal: P&G will improve its global upstream finished product freight emissions efficiency by 50% by 2030 versus 2020 baseline. P&G will do so by conversion to more efficient modalities (i.e., intermodal, low emissions, sustainable fuel, etc.), continued vehicle fill rate increase and further supply network optimization. Finally, we know P&G alone does not have all the answers. It will take innovative partnerships and collaboration with carriers, retailers and the broader transportation industry to find unique ways to deliver our products with fewer and friendlier miles. 
*ITF, 2019GLEC FRAMEWORK  
LED BY SMART FREIGHT CENTRE
115
Water is essential for the daily operation 
of our facilities and production of many of our brands. Creating a culture of water efficiency at our sites continues to be a priority as our sites focus on achieving our Ambition 2030 goals. Thanks to the work of many employees across our global portfolio, we’ve been able to reduce our manufacturing water usage by 27% per  unit of production since 2010. And we sourced 2.6 billion liters of water from circular sources. FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBU
Millions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20Water
*Chemical Oxygen Demand
SUPPLY CHAIN
116
Completion of Site Water Stewardship 
Action Plans 
P&G committed to focus efforts on areas exposed to 
high water risk. A three-tiered water risk assessment was developed with guidance from our partners at the World Resources Institute (WRI), World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and Environmental Resources Management (ERM). In just a few years, we moved through the assessment process and identified 24 sites located in areas exposed to high water risk. We are proud to report that we have completed the final step in our three-tiered process. All relevant high-water risk P&G sites now have site water stewardship action plans. Water
PRIORITY SITES FROM 2
~15% of sites will complete  
the Tier 3 processALL SITES SCREENED
~70% of sites in  
lower-risk regions
PRIORITY SITES FROM 1
~30% of sites have entered  
the Tier 2 processTailored Site Questionnaire (Completed)
Prioritize sites based on outcome of responses.
• The Company questionnaire was built upon the 
facility questionnaire in WWF’s Water Risk Filter2Water Risk Screening (Completed)
Identify risk level of sites based on:
• Baseline water stress score  — World Resources Institute
• Gross national income per capita  — World Bank
• Company site water use per year  — P&G
• Access to water  — WHO/UNICEF1
3In-depth Water Analysis (Completed)Prioritize risks for mitigation and develop site water 
stewardship plans.
• Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) International 
Water Stewardship Standard 2.0 steps 1–2.Water Risk Assessment FrameworkSUPPLY CHAIN
117
We are grateful to our partners for helping 
us get to this point. The Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) team, network and standard were essential to the final step of the process and have enabled a clear, actionable plan for all of our priority sites. As we celebrate this accomplishment, we know the work has just begun. In the coming years, we will focus on executing the action plans and will work to continue as good water stewards across our manufacturing sites. Water
Tier 3 Facilities
Sites that have completed 
AWS steps 1–2 and created site-speciﬁc waterstewardship action plans.SUPPLY CHAIN
PROTECTING WATER IN PRIORITY BASINSALLIANCE FOR WATER STEWARDSHIP  
To learn more about our broader  
effort on Protecting Water for People  
and Nature, click the link below.
118
Water Efficiency at Our Manufacturing Sites 
Water scarcity is a challenge facing many parts of the world. Here are some of the stories  
of how our plants are developing on-site solutions. 
Auburn, Maine
Our Feminine Care plant in Maine reduced its 
production adjusted water use by 18% in one year. The site conserved more than 12 million liters of water by fixing leaks and improving cooling tower operating systems. This water savings is equivalent to the annual water use of 150 Maine households. The plant continues to work on other ideas to reduce and reuse water. 
Louveira, Brazil
P&G’s Brazil Baby Care plant, located in an area which has been experiencing water stress, developed innovative solutions to reduce fresh water use. The facility installed equipment to treat and reuse manufacturing process water effluent. Last year, the plant recycled more than 34 million liters of water, the equivalent annual water use of 860 Brazilian households. The project also inspired plant employees to implement other water sustainability measures. Rakona, Czech Republic
Our Fabric and Home Care plant in the Czech Republic takes pride in their commitment to use every drop of water wisely. The manufacturing plant reduced its water use by more than four million liters by implementing multiple projects to increase water efficiency in utility and manufacturing processes. Water saved is equal to the annual water use of more than 130 Czech Republic citizens. Additional water savings projects will be implemented this year. Water
Rakona saved 
4.3 million liters
of fresh water.SUPPLY CHAIN
119
Across our operations and our supply 
chains, we continuously look for new opportunities to reduce waste and find circular solutions. This effort requires creative thinking and a spirit of partnership with a range of stakeholders inside and outside P&G. FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBU
Thousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBU
Thousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20WasteFY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20SUPPLY CHAIN
120
FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20Achieving Zero Waste at All P&G 
Manufacturing Sites
Since 2007, P&G plants have been on a mission to 
get to zero manufacturing waste to landfill. What we once considered an impossible dream, has become a reality. Working closely with our Global Asset Recovery Purchases (GARP) team, we found a second life use for our manufacturing waste, helping P&G save more than $2.2 billion while diverting more than 6.9 million tons 
from going to landfill.
In 2020, we are proud to celebrate with our teams 
around the world that ALL of our 100+ manufacturing sites across 38 countries have been qualified as zero manufacturing waste to landfill, meeting our ‘100% of sites’ commitment set in 2016. In every location, our “Waste Champions” have helped transform our processes with changes to the way we operate, clever uses for repurposing materials, and sharing learnings to be reapplied. Not only have our plants become more efficient, we’re positively impacting local communities while reducing our environmental footprint.Waste
Argentina
AustriaBelgiumBrazilCanadaChileChinaColombiaCzech 
Republic
EgyptFranceGermanyHungaryIndiaIndonesiaIrelandItalyJapanMalaysiaMexicoMoroccoNigeriaPakistanPeruPhilippinesPolandRomaniaRussian 
Federation
Saudi ArabiaSingaporeSouth AfricaSpainThailandTurkeyUkraineUnited 
Kingdom
United StatesVietnamCountries that are ZMWTL
100% of  
P&G plants 
are now zero manufacturing 
waste to landfill.SUPPLY CHAIN
121
P&G China Reduces Waste  
in Shipping Footprint 
Since 2017, P&G has led the FMCG industry in China to 
create and expand our Ship In Own Container (SIOC) packaging as e-commerce continues to grow in importance, requiring protection for products during transportation. Traditionally, companies have protected their shipping products with multiple boxes, which requires significant material use and cost. However, the SIOC innovation uses tailored corrugated cardboard boxes and trays to cut down on material use while maintaining protection during shipping and enhancing the consumer experience. The resulting design helps reduce material complexity and waste, cuts end-to-end cost by 20% to 40%, improves fulfillment center picking and packing productivity by 200%, reduces damage and leakage rates during shipping by 70% and eliminates 30% to 60% of paperboard in the packaging. Starting in 2019, P&G China partner-shipped with our e-commerce customer and supplier to develop the package circular system. P&G is the first FMCG company to launch the reusable shipper to replace the traditional shipper of paperboard, shipping from P&G to our customer. In the past 10 months, we have shipped more than 120,000 cases of the reusable shipper in China. We continue to create new generation Reusable Shipper 2.0 and expand the circular network to all e-commerce customers and Walmart in FY2021. We are rolling out more than three million cases of reusable package in the next 12 months.
With this P&G go-to-market package innovation, we 
not only created value for consumers and customers, we also reduced more than 6000 tons of paperboard usage a year.Waste
Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landfill  (ZMWTL) Milestones
2007Set the vision to see “waste as worth.” Formed the Purchasing GARP team and the Product Supply Waste Team
2008Budapest (Feminine Care) becomes our first ZMWTL site — setting a lighthouse for others to follow
2009Reading becomes P&G's first technical site to achieve ZMWTL 
2010Coevorden (Pet Care), Athens (DC), and Aleksandrow (Beauty) show zero waste is possible across a wider range of processes and brands
2015 Nearly 50% of our sites reach zero waste
2016P&G sets an even more ambitious goal, to achieve ZMWTL across 100% of our global production sites by 2020. Moving zero waste from a vision to a formal commitment.
2016Feminine Care become our first business unit to reach 100% ZMWTL
2017–  
2018More than 20+ countries qualify as ZMWTL in one year
2019Europe becomes our first Region to achieve ZMWTLThe ZMWTL program has 
delivered more than 2.2 billion 
in cumulative cost savings since 
2007, while helping upcycle nearly  
6.9 million 
metric tons of would-be waste.
Reusable Shipper 2.0  
reduced more than 6,000 tons  
of paperboard usage a year.SUPPLY CHAIN
122
Waste
Store Displays that Embrace Circularity
Point of Sale Material (POSM) are advertising materials 
that are used to communicate product information to the consumers at the point of sale. These include freestanding display units, shelf signs, leaflet dispensers and more. While having a proven record for driving up sales, these materials often end up in a landfill or incinerator after stores use them. 
Together with our vendors and retail customers, P&G 
Europe is committed to transforming our portfolio into sustainable POSM, i.e., reducing the footprint on climate and waste, while still growing the category. A nice example of this transformative partnership was the Hackathon on Sustainable POSM. This event, which was hosted by P&G and held in Brussels last March, included vendors — both start-up and industry players — who pitched their solutions to several companies and retailers, which turned out to be a source of inspiration and a real accelerator of several pilot projects. In order to compare the footprint of multiple solutions, as well as track progress with our vendors, we introduced the Sustain Score from Popai, an industry-wide tool measuring sustainable design. This helped identify ways to make store materials more sustainable, including paper sourcing accreditation for responsible forestry, reduction of single-use plastic and the development of a winning business model for a circular display. We may not have all the answers yet, but our teams are taking the first steps forward while exploring new solutions.
P&G Europe has  
committed to reduce  
the footprint on climate  
and waste, while still 
growing the category.SUPPLY CHAIN
In Europe, we’ve begun replacing  
plastic with cardboard handles  
and display trays.
123
Waste
P&G Europe Introduces Reusable 
Transport Smart-Box 
Before products such as toothbrushes, razors 
and deodorants reach the retail shelves, they are repackaged several times in different transport containers on their way to the consumer. In production, the products come in their outer packaging in cartons, are stacked on pallets and transported by truck to the distribution centers. Depending on the order, the pallets may be divided into smaller units and repacked into other containers. In this way, the products pass through various containers and packaging until they are finally at the retailer and later on the shelf. 
Today, transport boxes are already being used for 
redistribution in retail, but these are not currently standardized. This is very inefficient for trade and industry and drives up costs because the different packaging also generates a lot of packaging waste. 
GS1, a non-profit that oversees global standards for 
business communications, has recognized this and so industry, trade and GS1 Germany have developed the reusable GS1 Smart-Box, an isomodular, exchangeable box that represents a sustainable solution for all parties involved. The GS1 Smart-Box offers many advantages: the exchange and cleaning of the boxes is done by a pool partner, industry and trade share the costs, the trucks are optimally loaded and utilized, trade saves time and work and unnecessary packaging material is reduced. A simple box with many sustainability advantages! P&G Peru Office Finds Creative Ways  
to Repurpose Waste 
At P&G Peru, the efforts to achieve zero waste to landfill certification for our Lima office never stops. We took little steps like eliminating garbage cans in workstations and replacing them with recycling stations every 10 steps. We also eliminated most of the plastic used at the office, such as cups, cutlery and straws, by providing employees with reusable mugs, glass cups and metal cutlery and reinforcing their usage. This was complemented with two washing stations that were installed in the offices where employees can wash their utensils. 
In 2018, we formed an alliance with Sinba — an NGO 
dedicated to transforming organic waste into quality food for pigs — to help us properly prepare our recyclable waste for recycling organizations. As they have deep knowledge of recycling and related topics, we’ve relied on Sinba to organize training and activities for our employees like recycling contests, workshops and the creation of our “Ecologic Stops” where employees are tested on their knowledge of separating recyclables. As our organic waste is transformed into food for pigs, we placed little toy pigs on top of the organic waste bins to raise awareness and make people think of the consequences of tossing non-organic waste in this trash can. P&G Peru employees have a strong commitment to environmental sustainability and continue taking actions to accomplish our goal.
 Smart-Box
A simple box with  
many sustainability  
advantages!
SUPPLY CHAIN
124
Across our global operations, we are 
making intentional choices to reduce the footprint of our suppliers, buyers and manufacturing sites, sourcing sustainable materials and exploring new business models to drive circular solutions. We are combining resources, reach and knowledge with strategic global partners to drive the scale and speed needed to make a difference.
Circularity has always been a part of our ongoing 
conservation and environmental footprint reduction efforts within water, waste and renewable energy. We are committed to develop a more circular end-to-end supply chain by 2030. To achieve this, we will need to start thinking differently about the incoming materials, manufacturing work process, distribution and transport of our products. Circularity is not only the right thing to do, it also helps make our operations more efficient and resilient.
Our Tabler Station Solution
Our newest global manufacturing facility in Tabler Station, West Virginia, was designed with circularity  in mind.
The Tabler Station plant produces Dawn dish soap, 
Head & Shoulders and Pantene shampoo, and Gillette and Olay body wash. Tabler Station is P&G’s latest and largest investment in U.S. manufacturing and has implemented industry-leading innovative approaches including:
• Silver LEED v4 certified
• 100% renewable electricity
• Zero manufacturing waste to landfill
• Co-located bottle and material suppliers
• On-site surfactant making
• Recycling of nearly 230 million liters per year of circular water today, with the capacity to recycle up to 330 million when fully operational (enough for every person in the U.S. to have a bottle of water)P&G China Ranks in the Top 50 in IPE’s 
2019 Green Supply Chain Annual Report
The Institute of Public & Environmental Affairs (IPE) 
is a nonprofit environmental organization based in Beijing, China. IPE has developed and operated the Blue Map database and app consolidating nationwide environmental quality data and real-time emissions data for the first time. IPE’s Green Supply Chain Corporate Information Transparency Index (CITI) evaluation is a system for ranking brands’ supply chain practices. IPE uses this index to dynamically assess brand performance in overseeing supply chain environmental responsibility, scoring on such matters as public engagement and responsiveness, requirements for supplier compliance and corrective action and data disclosure and transparency. P&G China proactively stepped up to adopt the Green Supply Chain Index (CITI) and the Blue Map APP to manage the environmental performance of suppliers and took the lead in piloting end-to-end green supply chains. In the 2019 CITI Annual Report, P&G China ranked in the TOP 50, our first entry as a best-practice company since the CITI report was introduced in 2014.Striving for Circular Solutions
Our newest global manufacturing 
facility in Tabler Station, West Virginia, 
was designed with circularity in mind.SUPPLY CHAIN
125
Supplier Citizenship Summit on 
Sustainability 
More than 400 people representing 300 external 
business partners and P&G teams attended our first-ever Supplier Citizenship Summit at our Cincinnati global headquarters in October 2019. We spent the day hearing from inspirational P&G leaders and program managers who are working on Water, Waste and Climate. The event heightened overall awareness and insights on these very important topics.
As follow-up to the Summit, we had many suppliers 
ask how they could learn more about GHG emission reduction. P&G partnered with WWF to host a webinar series to coach 30 suppliers about pursuing ambitious science-based targets to reduce their GHG emissions.P&G and Cargill Collaborate to Bring 
Nature-Powered Innovation
An innovation developed in the corporate labs 
at P&G that converts lactic acid into bio-based acrylic acid could be a helpful step to shift everyday goods to be made from annually renewable crops. The collaboration leverages P&G’s award-winning technology and Cargill’s bioindustrial expertise to deliver greener alternatives in the personal care space.
P&G has granted Cargill an exclusive license that allows 
Cargill to further develop and commercialize this technology, so that it can ultimately be incorporated in a range of applications from superabsorbent polymers in absorbent hygiene products to thickeners in household paints and beyond. The use of bio-based acrylic acid is estimated to reduce GHG emissions  for years to come — something that is important to a range of stakeholders, including consumers and business leaders. 
P&G scientists Juan Velasquez, Jane Godlewski and 
Dimitris Collias (pictured below), who invented the proprietary technology, were named as recipients of the 2020 national Award for Affordable Green Chemistry by the American Chemical Society. While the conversion technology is considered a breakthrough, it will take several more years of development before impacting consumer products  in the marketplace.
Partnering with Suppliers
P&G’s first-ever 
Supplier Citizenship 
Summit took place at 
our Cincinnati global 
headquarters in 
October 2019.SUPPLY CHAIN
126
Promoting Responsible Forestry  
Through Certification 
Trees and the products they provide are an essential 
part of our daily lives and can play a role in helping address climate change. By producing all of our Family Care products with pulp sourced from 100% third-party certified forests, we are helping to promote forestry practices that leave a smaller environmental footprint, protect vulnerable species and make a positive impact on communities that depend on them. 
Forest Stewardship Council®  
(FSC®) Certification
FSC is one of the world’s most trusted forest certifications. P&G is making progress on our commitment to nearly double our use of FSC-certified fiber in our tissue and paper towel products to 75% by 2025. Over the past five years, P&G has sourced, on average, 35% of our wood fiber from FSC Chain of Custody (COC). In the first year of this commitment, P&G increased FSC COC to more then 50% of our wood fiber. For tissue and towel products, we’ve achieved 49% FSC COC certification this year.Increasing FSC-Certified Acres
The availability of FSC-certified pulp is insufficient to meet the demands of our Industry. Because of this, we are working directly with our supply chain partners and industry stakeholders to grow the supply of FSC-certified materials and pulp. Achieving our goal means collaborating with NGOs, suppliers and governments to help increase the acreage of FSC-certified forests. One of the ways we do this is through multiple projects led by The Nature Conservancy and the American Forest Foundation, such as the Family Forest Carbon Program, the Working Woodlands project and Carolina’s Working Forest Conservation Collaborative to educate family forest landowners and other smallholders on how to obtain forest certification. Canadian Boreal: 
Importance of Caribou and First Nations
We work closely with our 
suppliers with the goal of ensuring that the pulp we source meets our values, commitments and standards. Through our FSC sourcing commitments and by championing stricter FSC Canadian Forest Management standards, we are working to ensure forests stay forests, protect biodiversity, and respect the rights of Indigenous Peoples. FSC Canada’s new forest management standard addresses challenges specific to Canadian forests and includes criteria pertaining to the management of woodland caribou and its habitat including additional indicators relevant to all species that may be at risk. The updates also include clarification around “free, prior and informed consent” as defined in the United Nations Declaration of Indigenous Peoples. With the increased rigor in the FSC Canada National Forest Management Standard through our demand and increase in FSC-certified sourcing, we are working to protect these important values in Canada and elsewhere.Forestry
CAROLINA’S WORKING FOREST
CONSERVATION COLLABORATIVE  WORKING WOODLANDS PROJECT  FAMILY FOREST CARBON PROGRAM  
FSC’S COMMITMENT TO CARIBOU  
SUPPLY CHAIN
WOOD PULP PROCUREMENT POLICY  
127
Fiber Innovation
P&G is investing in innovation in non-wood fibers and 
FSC-certified fast-growing wood fibers. Our goal is to discover a non-wood fiber that is:
1) consumer-preferred, 
2) able to be produced at scale and
3)  r esponsibly sourced using third-party 
certification.
Our efforts this year included:
• Completed a landscape assessment to understand 
the ability to produce non-wood fibers at the scale required by P&G. Some relevant results are here:
• Partnered with leading experts to assess the ability to source various non-wood fibers responsibly. It’s critical to consider child labor, political stability, corruption and modern slavery issues, which are concerns in countries that grow non-wood fibers.
• Invested in studying a supply chain for non-wood fibers. We are now working to scale production and ensure the fiber can be sustainably sourced.
• Developed a higher performing and consumer-preferred paper towel made with 40% more  FSC-certified plantation fiber.Restoring Forests through Relief and 
Regeneration Efforts
Climate change is fueling more and more intense 
wildfires across the globe. In 2018, an estimated 8,000 fires burned across California alone, consuming more than 1.8 million acres of forestland. California’s 2020 season is already exceeding the devastation of 2018, 
and experts predict it will only worsen.
P&G’s Bounty, Charmin and Puffs brands will be 
closely collaborating with the Arbor Day Foundation to plant 300,000 trees through the California Wildfire Restoration project, leading other corporate partners toward the goal of two million trees planted in total on private and public land. 
The long-term benefits of the two million trees to be 
planted will be seen by generations to come through a restored ecosystem, carbon sequestration and improved air and water quality for local communities.
P&G recognizes that together we can make a 
difference, which is why we joined the Evergreen Alliance, a group of 17 corporate partners making a commitment to help the Arbor Day Foundation plant 100 million trees, inspiring five million tree planters by 2022. This announcement builds on P&G Family Care’s existing support for the Arbor Day Foundation’s wildfire restoration work in California. Forestry
NON-WOOD FIBERS IN TISSUE  SUPPLY CHAIN
128
BRAZIL’S ATLANTIC FOREST 
COLLABORATION  Investing in Nature in Brazil’s  
Atlantic Forest
There’s no question that protecting the world’s 
forests is of crucial importance. Not only are they a vital ecological resource — home to more than three-quarters of the world’s life on land, critical for mitigating climate change and necessary for filtering our air and water — they’re also an essential economic resource for more than 1.5 billion people who rely directly on forests for their daily survival. Balancing the health of our forests while also meeting consumer demand for paper and wood products continues to pose great challenges that require innovative thinking and collaboration.
This reality has inspired P&G Family Care, pulp supplier 
Suzano and World Wildlife Fund to collaborate on the Atlantic Forest Landscape Restoration Project in Brazil.  This effort will produce forest landscape restoration and rehabilitation plans and methodologies for several degraded forest and agricultural landscapes in the Brazilian state of Espírito Santo. This project is laying the groundwork for forest landscape restoration with meaningful impacts on biodiversity, water, food security and other co-benefits for local communities.Through a long-standing partnership with 
WWF, P&G is making progress toward 
ambitious, responsible fiber sourcing goals for 
both its products and packaging; supporting 
suppliers and family forest owners who are 
key partners in its sustainability journey; 
and actively working to strengthen forest 
certification standards around the globe.Forestry
SUPPLY CHAIN
129
Maintaining 100% third-party 
certification of virgin wood pulp 
Growing the quantity of forest 
management certified pulp 
Staying on track versus Family Care’s 
FSC-sourcing goal for 2025
Sourcing Data
FY19/20 Corporate 
Total Sourcing = 1.69MM ADMTFY19/20 Family Care (Tissue/Towel)Total Sourcing = 1.15MM ADMT
Country of Origin % of Total
Argentina < 1%
Brazil 30%
Canada 31%
United States 37%
Sweden 2%
Total 100%
Certification System % of Total
FSC COC 51%
FSC CW 19%
PEFC 15%
SFI 15%
Total 100%
FSC COC — FSC Chain of Custody 
FSC CW — Controlled WoodForestry
Country of Origin % of Total
Brazil 43%
Canada 45%
United States 9%
Sweden 3%
Total 100%
Certification System % of Total
FSC COC 49%
FSC CW 26%
PEFC 21%
SFI 4%
Total 100%
FSC COC — FSC Chain of Custody FSC CW — Controlled WoodSUPPLY CHAIN
130
Paper-Based Packaging
We continually strive to optimize the design of our 
packaging, aiming to use the least amount of material, while ensuring adequate protection, delivery and safe use of our products. As part of our ongoing efforts, we continue to identify source reduction opportunities to decrease overall material usage and to use recycled paper when it offers the best option to meet performance and business requirements. Our paper-based packaging is derived from wood fiber, and we have a responsibility through our procurement practices to ensure that the wood fiber in our packaging has been responsibly sourced. We made a specific commitment that by 2020, 100% of our paper packaging will contain either recycled or third-party certified virgin content. Over the last year, we have expanded our efforts to collect data from an increased number of suppliers to assess progress against this goal. This year, we have received data from more than 120 suppliers that represent more than 98% of our global paper packaging spend. This data, which was self-reported by our suppliers, is summarized in the following table: As outlined, 99.5% of the volume reported by our suppliers was either recycled or third-party certified virgin content, and we have plans in place to address the remaining fraction. As we go forward, our objective is to maintain the use of recycled or third-party certified virgin fiber in our paper packaging, and we will continue to report data on our paper packaging  on an annual basis.Forestry
Total Volume in Metric Tons: ~840,000
% Recycled 80%
% Virgin 20%
% of virgin fiber  
that was third-party certified94%
% of total recycled or  
third-party certified virgin 99.5%
WOOD PULP PROCUREMENT POLICY  SUPPLY CHAIN
131
Palm oil (PO) is an important, versatile and 
highly efficient natural and renewable vegetable oil. It is widely used for cooking, and in home-care and personal-care goods, food and biofuels. Palm production globally is approximately 80 million tons per year. Palm oil is the primary material while Palm kernel oil (PKO) is essentially a by-product material. P&G currently uses less than 1%  of the global palm volume, mostly palm kernel oil.
In some regions of the world, rapidly expanding palm 
growth is seen as a threat to existing tropical forests and peat lands. In some cases, concerns have also been expressed in relation to respect for workers’ rights and safety, as well as recognition for the land rights of smallholder farmers and indigenous peoples. 
At P&G, we are committed to the responsible 
sourcing of palm, meaning it does not contribute to deforestation, while respecting human and labor rights. We are actively engaged as members of Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and support their standards to drive responsible practices across the industry. In addition, we have established a robust approach to responsible sourcing of palm-derived materials through our goal to source 100% RSPO-certified palm for all P&G brands by 2022, our strong compliance to our Responsible Sourcing policy and our commitment to be a force for good in the industry through smallholder inclusion and conservation and protection. We recognize that there will always be more that needs to be done.
Palm Oil Responsible Sourcing Policy
P&G is committed to ensuring our suppliers meet the 2018 RSPO Principles and Criteria (P&C) and to have the necessary policies and procedures in place to ensure:
• No development of high-conservation-value (HCV) areas and high-carbon-stock* (HCS) forests
• No new development of peat lands regardless  of depth
• No burning to clear land for new development  or replanting
• Compliance with P&G’s existing Sustainability Guidelines for external business partners
• Respect for human and labor rights
• Respect for land tenure rights, including rights of indigenous and local communities to give or withhold their free, prior and informed consent for development of land they own legally, communally or by customAll our suppliers have submitted their relevant policies and procedures to demonstrate how they will meet our responsible sourcing requirements. Our expectation is that our suppliers apply these policies to all their operations, not just those supplying P&G. If we find a supplier is violating any of the above requirements, and if that supplier does not acknowledge and take action to resolve the concern, P&G will suspend or eliminate palm oil purchases from that supplier. A supplier would need to have a documented action plan and demonstrate meaningful progress to be considered for reinstating supply agreements.Palm Oil
OUR RESPONSIBLE SOURCING POLICY  
*The High Carbon Stock Approach (HCSA) Toolkit should be applied to identify and conserve HCS forests.SUPPLY CHAIN
132
Progress
In FY19/20, we have made progress against several  
key milestones:
Increasing the overall % RSPO-certified palm used 
in P&G brands to 61%. 
• We maintained 100% RSPO Segregated (SG) palm oil, and 100% Segregated (SG)/ Mass Balance (MB) on palm oil derivatives. 
• We have increased our percentage of RSP0-certified palm kernel oil/palm kernel oil derivatives, and we are on track to deliver approximately 90% physically certified RSPO PO/PKO by the summer 2021 and 100% by the end of 2021. Renewing our P&G Palm Sustainability Strategy with focus in three key areas:
• Establishing a strong foundation based on 100% RSPO-certified palm for all P&G brands
• Driving robust compliance monitoring — environmental and social
• Identifying programs to play a role as a force for good — including through improving livelihoods for smallholders and with conservation and protection programs
Implementing improved compliance and grievance monitoring enabled by our third-party collaboration with Earthqualizer —  allowing us to track potential 
deforestation, development on peat or fires by our suppliers or across their enterprise wide supply chain. We believe this is key to helping us identify any issues across P&G’s palm supply chains and take action  where needed. Our first public grievance dashboard  
is planned to be published in January 2021.  
Stepping up to invest and support efforts to accelerate human and labor rights remediation efforts at supplier Felda Global Venture (FGV).  We 
believe that this is the right and responsible thing to do, not only for FGV, but most importantly for its workers and potentially for the whole palm industry. A key element of this process has been enrolling the support of the Fair Labor Association (FLA), an independent and respected expert in the field of labor rights to guide and work with FGV to accelerate action and implement change.
Supporting 160 independent smallholders in Johor 
Malaysia in their work towards applying for the new RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard (RISS).  
Unfortunately, COVID-19 and the Malaysian Movement Control Order (MCO), which restricted movement in the interest of health and safety during the pandemic, led to a postponement of all audits until the first quarter of 2021. However, we expect these smallholders to be among the first to be certified using the new RISS standard. 
Progressing our assessment of potential 
environmental conservation and protection programs with NGOs and partners — including biodiversity, wildlife, forest and livelihood protection. Specific programs have been identified with partners, and these are currently undergoing evaluation and due diligence assessments.
Actively participating in the RSPO Jurisdictional 
Working Group  to develop the framework and 
certification structure to ensure broader compliance to RSPO standards and our Responsible Sourcing Policy.Palm Oil
SUPPLY CHAIN
133
Pillar I: Set The Foundation
P&G uses palm-derived ingredients in our products, 
as well as for use at P&G Chemicals (PGC), our oleochemical operation. PGC sells PKO and PO derivatives to business-to-business and merchant industrial customers. 
In 2019, we announced our commitment to use 100% 
RSPO-certified palm-derived materials in our P&G brands by the end of 2022. We are now accelerating our timeline by one year and plan to achieve 100% RSPO certification for palm-derived materials in P&G brands by the end of 2021. We have made strong progress, reaching 61% certification for all P&G brands in FY19/20, an increase of 49% from the previous fiscal year. Our palm oil and palm oil derivatives used in our brands have been 100% RSPO-certified for approximately three years. Currently, 44% of PKO/PKOD used in our brands is RSPO-certified, with plans identified to enable year-on-year increases to 100% by the end of 2021.
Today, PGC supplies palm products within the 
merchant market. We are in a position to supply certified materials to PGC direct customers on a demand-driven basis. We continue to play an active role in advocating for the use of RSPO certified materials in our efforts to increase demand for sustainable palm both with our direct customers and more broadly with other purchasers of palm-derived materials.
Palm Oil
P&G uses ingredients derived from palm oil and palm oil derivatives in Skin & Personal Care and Fabric Care products and supplies via PGC to the merchant market. Our major suppliers of PO and POD are Wilmar, ICOF, COFCO and Nimir.
In 2018, we moved to 100% RSPO Segregated (SG) 
Palm Oil. Our PODs are currently a combination of SG and Mass Balanced (MB) with the aim to transition to 100% SG by end of 2020 or early 2021. We have identified some challenges (influenced by broader market dynamics and supply availability) that need to be overcome, but we continue to work closely with our suppliers against this aim. 
We believe that driving broader demand and use of 
RSPO-certified palm oil (PO/POD) will play a critical role in creating more sustainable palm agricultural practices. Palm oil production is the primary commodity for growers, as such it drives business choices, including land use change and ultimately towards more sustainable practices. P&G is seeking to play a role both through our own PO/POD RSPO purchase choices and by engaging with others to advocate for the use of RSPO-certified palm and working with groups driving awareness of its benefits. Learn more about why we are moving to RSPO segregated palm at the link below. 
RSPO segregated palm oil is physically segregated 
from non-certified oils throughout the supply chain. This provides greater verification on the origins of the oil purchased — ensuring that it originates from RSPO-certified sources with greater traceability at each stage. By definition, this allows us to trace the oil, not only to the palm oil mill but to the source plantation and to implement additional verification or audit  steps when needed. We are working toward our  goal of being both 100% RSPO PO SG (complete) and PO fractions and POD (in progress) by early 2021. 
Palm Oil
RSPO SG PO  Three Pillar Framework
Pillar I Set the Foundation
100% RSPO-certification for all P&G  
brands by end of 2021
Pillar II Robust Monitoring
Environment and Social
Pillar III Becoming a Force for Good
Smallholders and conservation and protection programsSUPPLY CHAIN
134
Palm Kernel Oil
P&G uses ingredients derived from PKO and Palm Kernel Oil Derivatives (PKOD) in Fabric Care, Home Care, Hair Care and Skin & Personal Care products.  In FY19/20, our major PKO and PKOD suppliers are  FGV, Wilmar, KLK, ICOF, AAA, GAR, Sime Darby.
We have made significant progress in our PKO 
certified usage in P&G brands. In FY19/20, it is now at 44%. We have identified potential supply chain solutions to enable us to increase this to 100%  by the end of 2021.Suppliers’ Traceability — Palm Oil Traceability to Mills Traceability plays an important role in helping us monitor and manage a sustainable palm supply chain. We have currently been at 98% traceability of palm purchases back to the palm oil mills. Our key direct suppliers are Wilmar, ICOF, AAA, GAR and Kalmart.  See the map for locations of mills and click on the link for a detailed list of these mills: Palm Oil
1  T his is the volume consumed in P&G brands in FY19/20. The PO/PKO volumes 
used in P&G Chemicals and sold in the Merchant Market is reported in the RSPO 
ACOP in the Processor & Trader Section (https://rspo.org/members/acop)Palm Oil/Palm 
Oil Fractions1Palm Oil 
Derivatives1
Metric Tons144,936 62,996
RSPO 
Certified (%)100% 100%
%MB 54% 100%
%SG 46% 0%
1  T his is the volume consumed in P&G brands in FY19/20. The PO/PKO volumes 
used in P&G Chemicals and sold in the Merchant Market is reported in the RSPO 
ACOP in the Processor & Trader Section (https://rspo.org/members/acop)Palm  
Kernel Oil1Palm Kernel Oil 
Derivatives1
Metric Tons1169,626 78,045
RSPO 
Certified (%)44% 37%
RSPO MB Certified (%)44% 37%
P&G TRACEABILITY TO MILLS SUPPLY CHAIN
135
PILLAR II: Robust Monitoring
Human and Labor Rights — P&G Stepping Forward 
to Support Change at FGVIn 2018, an RSPO complaint was filed against FGV regarding alleged conditions related to forced labor among its foreign worker population. This catalyzed FGV to take a more holistic approach toward preventing and addressing human and labor rights issues within its supply chain.
At P&G, respecting human rights is fundamental to 
how we manage our business. We follow the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  
and expect our business partners to operate in the same manner. It is our responsibility to engage with our suppliers if human rights issues are identified, assess the problem and then use our resources and expertise to take action and implement solutions. In 2019, P&G decided to step in and support FGV in accelerating the pace of change — an important step identified both by civil society, NGOs and P&G. The first step was to engage the Fair Labor Association (FLA), an independent and respected expert in the field of labor rights, for their help to guide and work with us  to accelerate action and change.
In November 2019, the FLA announced that FGV 
and P&G Chemicals (PGC) would become affiliated members of FLA-FGV Affiliation . FGV committed 
to uphold FLA standards, address labor issues and drive long-term improvements to manage working conditions in its operations and those in its upstream supply chain. The first step was for FGV to develop an action plan based on findings from the FLA’s internal management systems gap analysis, feedback from field visits and recommendations from civil society organizations working on human and labor rights and migration issues. This was published in March 2020 and can be found in the FGV Action Plan 2020 . 
An essential part of the FLA’s process is ongoing open and transparent publication of progress reports. FGV’s first progress report was published by the FLA in September 2020. This report  demonstrates progress 
during the COVID-19 pandemic and movement in the right direction, but more work is needed. The report is rigorous and thorough, and work is underway to develop an executive summary of progress and next steps in a targeted way to stakeholders. FGV will continue to take positive actions and to work with the FLA for regular progress reviews, which will be published on an ongoing basis.
Enterprise-Wide Monitoring of Supplier 
Operations — Activating Earthqualizer MonitoringWe believe an industry-wide monitoring system based on use of aerial/satellite imagery, concession maps and knowledge of high-conservation-value (HCV)/high-carbon-stock (HCS) areas is a powerful tool to help ensure consistent enforcement of our Palm Responsible Sourcing Policy. We are working with Earthqualizer (formerly known as Aid Environment) to deploy technology which tracks deforestation, and development on peat and fires in our supplier enterprise-wide supply chains, offering new visibility and ability to act on issues and exposure for our palm supply chains.Over the past 10 years, Earthqualizer has developed a comprehensive oil palm database, based on a supplier group level and working with stakeholders to end non-sustainable commodity sourcing practices. A key feature of this data is its accuracy, level of precision and timeliness of the tracking system at a supplier group level which enables users, such as P&G to engage when there is a potential grievance case that can immediately halt destructive land-use practices and push for the resolution of social conflicts. This combination of analytical capacity and big data has made the Earthqualizer system a useful tool to help monitor the No Deforestation and Peat (NDP) elements of our Responsible Sourcing Policy.
Palm OilSUPPLY CHAIN
At P&G, respecting  
human rights is  
fundamental to how we 
manage our business.
136
Monitoring and Grievance Reporting across  
P&G Palm Supply Chain  
Earthqualizer’s technology is helping us implement more robust and effective monitoring across our third-party supplier network. It allows us to proactively identify issues and address them quickly and respond efficiently and effectively to any concerns raised in relation to deforestation or peatland development. This technology will enable us to monitor palm oil concessions owned by companies inside our supply chain with primary focus on Indonesia, Malaysia and Papua New Guinea. 
This data will be part of our ongoing grievance 
monitoring process. We plan to publish reports every four months on www.pg.com , with the first report 
planned for January 2021. PILLAR III: Force for Good
P&G seeks to be a force for good wherever we operate. We know there are actions we can take for change within our supply chain and through use of certified-RSPO use in our brands. However, we also need to go further with long-term programs focused on making a difference for smallholders and communities and the ecosystems that sustain palm agriculture. It is also vital for us to both lead and partner on these programs, so we bring the voices and expertise of many parties to these programs. In FY19/20, we maintained our ongoing commitment to improving smallholder livelihoods, and we are beginning to identify and establish specific conservation and protection programs.
In FY19/20, we focused on: 1. Enabling Independent Smallholder Transformation
 — approximately 40% of global oil palm is grown by smallholders and enabling and ensuring sustainable farming practices has the potential to both improve lives and deliver greater sustainable palm production and supply. We have supported RSPO engagement and training for smallholders since 2015. We have also worked directly with independent smallholders in Johor State, Malaysia, since 2017 and via our Centre for Sustainable Smallholders (CSS), which seeks to help farmers boost livelihoods via more efficient and sustainable farming practices. Additional detail on our smallholder efforts is available here:2. Traceability and Verification Task Force (TVTF)P&G is supporting work by a key supplier to conduct full traceability of palm fresh fruit bunch production sources and No Deforestation, Peat and Exploitation (NDPE) verification of high-risk areas (as per GFW Pro Assessment) in 23 of their RSPO-certified mills in Peninsular Malaysia. So far, we have:
• Achieved supply-shed traceability of fresh fruit bunches to 23 mills within a 50 kM radius.
• Completed traceability exercise of 108K mT FFB (2.4K mT PKO) to 17 FFB collection centers and 6,170 smallholders in Johor under the Bingan Jaya’s (an FFB Dealer in Malaysia) supply base in Johor. 
3. Conservation and Protection Program DevelopmentThis year, we began a process to identify potential force for good programs based on conservation and protection of ecosystems, wildlife and supporting communities. These will be developed in partnership with expert NGOs and in consultation with local civil society and communities. We are currently reviewing proposals and expect to announce further progress  in FY20/21. Palm Oil
SUPPLY CHAIN
SMALLHOLDER SPOTLIGHT
137
4. Engaging, Advocating and Partnering for Change
Making change happen across the palm industry 
supply chain starts with commitment, but is enabled by partnerships. P&G is committed to working with others in the industry, as well as stakeholder groups to develop best practices and implement programs for change. We partner with many groups including:
• RSPO  via many working groups, standing 
committees and participation in programs that help drive the development and implementation of sustainable palm practices. These include: 
• Development of the new Jurisdictional Approach Certification system to support group certification at scale under the RSPO Principle & Criteria (P&C), Independent Smallholder Standard (RISS) and Supply Chain Certification Standard (SCCS)
• Smallholder programs which include:
- D evelopment of RSPO on Smallholder Strategy 
and Supply Chain Certification Standards (SCCS) group to implement the RSPO Independent Smallholder Standards certification
- P roviding smallholder support and 
engagement at RSPO annual Round Table 
- S upport for the RSPO Smallholder Training 
Academy through availability of master trainers for training 
• Partnering on the development of Principles and Criteria on High Forest Cover and High Carbon Stock Approach• Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) — We are participating in CGF’s Forest Positive Coalition of Action comprised of member companies committed to moving efficiently toward a forest positive future and to work to accelerate systematic efforts to remove deforestation, forest degradation and conversion from key commodity supply chains. 
Moving Forward 
We are proud of the progress we have made so far, but we are not complacent. We need to advance our work in collaboration with our suppliers and across the industry and with NGOs and civil society to continue the journey to more sustainable palm. 
In FY20/21, we will be focusing on:
• Completing our supply chain efforts to achieve 100% 
RSPO SG for POD by the end of 2020 or early 2021.
• Implementing our glidepath to 100% PKO and PKOD RSPO certification by the end of 2021.
• Having public grievance reporting for social and environmental in place by January 2021. 
• Continuing the social remediation work through Fair Labor Association (FLA) in FGV supply chain. • Completing RISS Certification of a minimum of 124 smallholders in Johor.
• Executing the conserve and protect program of ecologically sensitive areas.
• Enabling finalization of the Jurisdictional Certification System Document for approval early 2021.Palm Oil
SUPPLY CHAIN
138
RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard  
(RISS) — Inclusive and Sustainable
Smallholders play an important role in the palm supply 
chain. Implementing the RSPO Smallholder Strategy is a critical way to enable sustainable palm production, while enabling inclusion of smallholders to help them boost their yields and livelihoods and enable their participation and voice within the RSPO System.
The new RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard (RISS) 
is the means to realize the strategy. As a member of the Smallholder Interim Group, we have been contributing to the development of the RISS. This aims to create a simplified, more inclusive process, with a stepwise approach that supports continuous improvement of farming practice and productivity. It seeks to bring this key supply chain sector into the RSPO-certified palm system with key eligibility requirements to enable market support to the smallholders to advance by milestones towards 100% RSPO compliance. Key progress updates include:
• Supporting our smallholders to successfully complete registration of their new smallholder association — PERTANIAGA (Association for Sustainable Commercial Smallholders). This was completed on May 26, 2020 with Malaysia Registrar of Societies (as governed by Societies Act 1966 and Societies Regulation 1984). This is a key step toward their association becoming an regular RSPO member, which is essential for moving toward RISS Certification Audits.
• Making progress toward RISS certification for independent smallholders — 257 of the P&G partner smallholders have signed a participatory agreement to achieve certification in FY20/21 of which 124 smallholders are on track to achieve RISS certification milestone by the end of 2020.
• Expanding expertise by training four of our sustainable field officers at the Centre for Sustainable Smallholders (CSS) to be qualified as RSPO Smallholder Trainer Academy Master Trainer.
We are committed to continuing the support to the smallholders and have been nominated to sit in the RSPO Smallholder Standing Committee which will oversee the successful implementation of the RSPO Smallholder Strategy and Standard.Palm Oil: Smallholder SpotlightSUPPLY CHAIN
139
Improving Livelihoods of Palm Smallholders
P&G’s Smallholder Program in Johor state, Malaysia, 
seeks to put smallholders in control, so they can improve their livelihoods and make sustainable farming choices. P&G has a unique role to play, not only through investment but by creating and activating partnerships with independent experts in sustainable agriculture, ecology and supply chain that lead to better, more responsible solutions.
In collaboration with the Malaysia Institute for Supply 
Chain Innovation (MISI), we established the Centre for Sustainable Smallholders (CSS). CSS is based at the University Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia, in Parit Raja, Johor. It works as a “one-stop-shop” resource center with researchers, agronomists and field workers to work with supply chain teams to drive “on-the-ground” (and in-the-field) capability. We also quickly established a collaboration with Yara, a leading global fertilizer manufacturer, to create a supply chain at affordable prices. In order to support the future generation of program leaders, we have created internship opportunities for local students to learn and experience life in the palm sector working in CSS.
Key progress on our efforts include:
• 10 smallholders have successfully completed their 
first of three years of participation in Core Learning Farm Program.
• Positive progress in palm fresh fruit bunch (FFB) yields achieved in the 10 Core Learning Farms with annual yield of 18.83 mT/Ha.
• CSS has successfully completed six field pocket guides on Best Management Practices (BMP) to provide expertise for smallholders.
We are also committed to championing smallholders’ progress in partnership with RSPO. Since 2015, we have sponsored their “Linking Learning” session annually. Through CSS, we are supporting the RSPO Smallholder Academy, which looks to develop technical experts who are then able to train farmers in best practices.Palm Oil: Smallholder Spotlight
SUPPLY CHAIN
140
SOCIETY  
Create transformative partnerships  
that enable people, the planet and  
our business to thrive.
• We will find solutions so no P&G packaging will 
find its way to the ocean
• We will protect water for people and nature in priority basins
• We will collaborate on and invest in natural climate solutions that improve and restore critical ecosystems and support local communitiesCreate transformative partnerships  
that enable people, the planet and  
our business to thrive
• We will find solutions so no P&G packaging will find its way to the ocean.
• We will protect water for people and nature in priority basins.
• We will collaborate on and invest in natural climate solutions that improve and restore critical ecosystems and support local communities.
141
Accelerating transformative change to 
protect the planet is firmly on the corporate agenda. With serious challenges facing us — climate change, plastic waste, loss of biodiversity and more — P&G and other private sector companies are stepping up and joining forces with NGOs, academics, governments and more to collectively develop solutions at scale. 
50L Home Coalition will Reinvent Water 
Use in the Home
At P&G, we believe there are opportunities to develop 
and scale viable innovations to reinvent how water is used in cities around the world. Today, we know that the average home in the developed world is highly inefficient, using up to 500 liters of water per person each day. Showering, laundry, cooking and washing dishes in the home result in using 10% of the earth’s water supply. P&G is spearheading the 50L Home Coalition to bring partners together across the entire domestic water value chain, aiming to transform urban water management. The goal of the 50L Home project will be to leverage technologies and innovations that enable a person to live on 50 liters of water usage per day that feels like 500 liters. This effort will not only aim to save water but also energy used in the home. Protecting Forests with WWF in Russia 
P&G partnered with three key retailers in Russia including Tander, X5 and Lenta to contribute more than 8,3 million RUB to WWF Forest program. The in-store campaigns focused consumers’ attention on climate problems, offering easy and transparent ways to participate by supporting several forest conservation projects of WWF-Russia. This addressed the challenge of Siberian fires and intact forests which are important not only for the conservation of the planet’s biological diversity, but also for regulating the climatic and water regime, protecting the soil from degradation and maintaining the high flow of rivers. 
• Naturella in X5: one ruble from each purchase of Naturella was allocated to the WWF-Russia’s project “Forest Guards”. Each shopper received a personal certificate indicating the area of intact forest conserved on their behalf. 
• Multi-brand in Lenta: one ruble from each P&G product sold in Lenta’s stores funded WWF-Russia’s initiative “Preserving Altai’s Valuable Forests from Fires.” 
• Laundry products in Tander: during Earth Hour in 2020 one ruble from each purchase of Ariel, Fairy and Lenor was donated to the WWF-Russia fund for preserving Russian intact forests that contributes to climate change mitigation.SocietySOCIETY
50L HOME COALITION  
142
Alliance to End Plastic 
Waste Enters Year Two with Strong Momentum
P&G is a founding member of the 
Alliance to End Plastic Waste, launched in January of 2019 with the clear and ambitious vision to help end plastic waste in the environment. Now almost 50 members strong, with P&G CEO David Taylor serving as Board Chair from day one, the Alliance is continuing to develop, support and invest in a range of solutions that are helping prevent the leakage of plastic waste into our rivers, seas and oceans. 
Thinking Globally, Acting Locally  
Ending plastic waste is a global issue with local 
municipal action and responsibility. Communities bordering water bodies in Asia and Africa are the most vulnerable, but Alliance efforts will cover all corners of the world, in both emerging and developed economies.
Collaboration Is Key  
Orchestrating coordinated actions from a diversity of 
partners is critical to success across the world and on the ground.
Changing Behavior  
Inspiring people to care about the management  
of the waste they generate by observing and understanding society.From Waste to Worth Recovering and extracting value from waste plastic is a critical outcome for a circular supply chain and to closing the loop.
Moving Up the Waste Hierarchy 
Progressing from short-term actions to long-lasting waste management solutions that help communities and society achieve circular economies.
The Alliance is engaging with cities to deliver a 
portfolio of big-impact solutions that will rapidly catalyze a waste-free future, providing support for 14 projects in cities like Jembrana, Indonesia; Accra, Ghana; Tan An, Vietnam; Puducherry, India; Surabaya, Indonesia, and Manila, Philippines, to name a few. Bringing companies together with nonprofit organizations, development agencies, governments and other stakeholders drives more investment in much-needed infrastructure to properly manage plastic waste. 
With a target of $1.5 billion over five years, Alliance 
efforts make a real difference by providing expertise and funding. Finding solutions to tackle plastic waste also helps to address the economic, social and environmental challenges defined by the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). #Transparent2020: WWF’s ReSource: 
Plastic Drives Transparency on  
Plastic Waste
World Wildlife Fund (WWF) launched ReSource: Plastic 
to bring companies together in a first-of-its-kind effort to bring transparency and collaboration to corporate action and reporting on plastic. In June 2020, ReSource published its inaugural public report, Transparent 2020, as the first benchmark of the activation hub’s goal of preventing 50 million metric tons of plastic waste by 2030. 
With a comprehensive measurement and analysis of 
the plastic footprints of P&G and four other ReSource member companies, Transparent 2020 provided data-driven insights to inform how companies can maximize and multiply the impact of their plastic mitigation activities. The report also identified four critical areas where companies can overcome shared challenges through collective action. 
The report findings were calculated using the ReSource 
Footprint Tracker, an innovative methodology designed to fill a critical measurement gap companies have needed to effectively advance plastic sustainability. Keeping Plastic Waste  
Out of the Environment
READ TRANSPARENT 2020  SOCIETY
ALLIANCE TO END PLASTIC WASTE  
143
PureCycle Gives Polypropylene  
a Second Life
PureCycle Technologies’  process purifies 
polypropylene plastic waste and converts it into 
high-quality, ultra-pure recycled polypropylene. The patented process developed by P&G scientist Dr. John Layman uses a non-toxic solvent to remove color, odor and contaminants from polypropylene, widely used in packaging, textiles and plastic parts for the automotive and other industries. Recycled Material to Build a Home  
in Argentina 
P&G Argentina's Magistral brand connected with TECHO Argentina, an NGO that provides emergency houses to vulnerable communities around the country so they can have a place to move on in life. Together, we came up with a campaign that would benefit these communities as part of the launch of a new SKU with a recyclable package. Recycling bins were placed in stores in Gran Buenos Aires that encouraged consumers to recycle the Magistral product bottle. With every new Magistral product purchased by consumers, the brand contributed toward the delivery of recycled material for TECHO. These contributions were used to craft 36 emergency houses, each made with recycled material. P&G employees volunteered their time to build two of the 36 emergency houses in one of the most vulnerable neighborhoods in the city of La Plata. The construction took two full days of hard work and was led by TECHO and P&G employees, who left aside their own plans for the weekend to take part in this activation, changing the reality of those families that 
needed anew home.   
Keeping Plastic Waste  
Out of the EnvironmentProject HolyGrail 
Pioneers Intelligent Packaging 
P&G packaging expert 
Gian De Belder led a coalition of companies under Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New Plastics Economy Pioneer Projects to solve one of the largest obstacles facing recycling: ineffective sorting at material recovery facilities. HolyGrail tested the use of digital watermark technology to turn packages into “intelligent objects” and accomplish sorting benefits deemed impossible for the recycling industry to achieve. Faster, more accurate sorting means more plastics go back into the circular economy at a much higher reuse quality. Widespread adoption of harmonized digital technology also enables end-to-end ‘smart package’ advantages including quality inspection and inventory management systems at production plants, faster check-out at retail, scannable content for consumers and tracking materials recovery at recyclers. 
HolyGrail 2.0 — facilitated by AIM, the European 
Brands Association — is the next step in the journey. Officially launched in September 2020, the HolyGrail 2.0 consortium currently has more than 85 value chain members, including some of world’s biggest brand owners and retailers. De Belder is chairing the leadership team of HolyGrail 2.0, with the goal to enter a European test market by early 2022.
SOCIETY
144
P&G Teams Step Up to Help Clean Up
Waste that ends up in rivers and oceans is a pressing global issue. Here are a few examples 
of how our teams around the world are tackling waste head on:
Less Waste in Mumbai
More than 150 P&G employees, partner employees, family and friends collected nearly 2300 kilograms of waste from the Mahim beach in Mumbai. The collected waste was sorted and recycled by our waste management partner. Through these interventions,  we strive to enhance the overall state of cleanliness  and waste management by making sustainability a part of everything we do. This also brings us closer  to achieving our Ambition 2030 goals. 
Cleaner Beaches in Greece
In collaboration with the environmental NGO iSea, as well as retailer AB Vasilopoulos (Delhaize), P&G and our brands have joined forces for the last three years to clean waste from Greek beaches. The campaign is called Offer and reinforces to consumers, “I offer the best products to my family, while in parallel I offer the best care to the environment protecting our beaches from waste.” So far, the NGO has done more than 75 beach cleanups and the target for summer 2021 is 100. P&G employees help in at least one cleanup every year.P&G France Foundation for the Seashore Protection Our P&G France Foundation for the Seashore Protection is one of the first company foundations in France. It was created in 1992. One hundred percent of the foundation’s funds are dedicated to projects led by and with the Conservatoire du littoral, a public body under the supervision of the Ministry of Ecology. One of the Foundation’s missions is to educate the youngest about the environment, and particularly, about the protection of the coast. During the last 10 years, educational tools were developed with this objective in mind for young people from kindergarten to high school. 
Keeping Plastic Waste  
Out of the Environment
P&G employees in 
Greece help in at 
least one beach 
cleanup every year.
SOCIETY
145
Fairy Clean Waters in Romania
In 2019, Fairy started the campaign Clean Waters in 
Romania in partnership with Act For Tomorrow and cleaned some of the most problematic areas on Lake Bicaz where waste thrown into mountain rivers has contributed to a highly polluted environment. Four tons of waste was collected in 1,060 trash bags by 220 volunteers over the course of three days. We have also implemented cleaning events with P&G employees resulting in 150 bags of trash collected from the Danube shore in Giurgiu.
P&G Poland Continues Its Sustainability 
Journey 
P&G Poland remains committed to the “Clean Earth” 
program, a partnership with the Our Earth Foundation. The program, consisting of various community activities and campaigns, is focused on eliminating plastic waste from the environment. We have cleaned plastic waste from the scenic Baltic Sea coast and the community neighboring our Pampers plant in Targówek. P&G joined forces with Lidl, a key customer, to encourage shoppers to get involved. Further, a number of nationwide education programs support students in developing responsible consumption habits and responsibly managing natural resources.Spain Promotes Caring for Environment 
through Mi Playa Sin Plástico Campaign
Created to raise awareness and promote care for the 
environment, Spain’s Mi Playa Sin Plástico campaign enrolled volunteers to clean Las marismas de Santoña natural park. Volunteers from P&G, Carrefour and the Paisaje Limpio association removed and classified waste. The protected area is an important wetland in the Iberian Peninsula that is a vital migration route for many bird and mammal species.
Vision: Growing China’s Future Leaders  
in Environmental Protection
P&G China’s Pioneer Program has been co-launched by P&G and China’s Environmental Protection Foundation. This project provides funding, training and networking to student environmental protection societies in universities in China and is designed to grow future leaders in environmental protection. Since 2015, the program has provided financial and capability-building support to 144 university student clubs in 11 provinces, benefiting more than 8,000 university students. More than 100,000 students joined the program network. P&G China Pioneer Program has not only enhanced the capability for student clubs to get involved in environmental protection, but also integrated resources from universities, enterprises, local governments and broader society, hence broadening and deepening the scope of environmental protection practices for university students.Keeping Plastic Waste  
Out of the Environment
SOCIETY
146
Despite the challenges of this past year, 
P&G has remained committed to advancing our Citizenship goals, including our goal to protect water for people and nature in priority basins. Last year, we announced the 18 priority basins that will guide our efforts in this area. These basins are across seven countries, including China, India, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Turkey and the United States. We continue to work with partners to determine the key shared water challenges and viable solutions in each priority basin. New efforts were started in Spain and Turkey to guide potential engagement, and we were excited to support a large-scale water resilience project in the U.S. 
Spain and Turkey 
In order to increase our understanding of the priority basins in Spain and Turkey, we kicked off a new partnership with the Water Systems Analysis Research Group at the University of Cincinnati (U.C.). The U.C. team will help us better understand the sustainability of the water resources in these two regions of the world. They’ll work with the P&G Sustainability team to identify solutions that are best suited to address key water challenges facing the people and natural environment that call these basins home. United States The southwestern U.S. faces increasing stress on their water resources and organizations are working on creative, collaborative ways to ensure key water sources are prepared for the future. P&G is excited to be one of eight major corporations to support a landmark collective funding agreement that complements existing funding from the state of Arizona to compensate the Colorado River Indian Tribe (CRIT) for conserving billions of liters of water — directly shoring up declining water levels in Lake Mead, an essential water source for millions of people. Protecting Water  
for People and Nature
Country # Priority Basins Priority Basin
China 3Xuanhui He  
Hai He Delta 
Tuo Jiang
Mexico 3Moctezuma  
Laja  
Lerma/Salamanca
USA 5Lower Bear/Malad, Great Salt Lake,  
Lower American, Lower Sacramento/Putah, Calleguas
India
3Sutlej  
Yamuna 1  
Musi/Aler
Saudi 
Arabia2Saudi Arabia West 
Coast 5 Persian Gulf Western Coast 2
Spain
1 Segura
Turkey 1 Kocaeli
P&G SUPPORTS SYSTEM CONSERVATION  SOCIETY
147
Carbon Neutral for the Decade 
For many years, the prevailing belief was that the 
only way to combat climate change was to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by moving away  from fossil fuels and investing in renewable energy. Reducing emissions is still our first priority, but we need to find ways to close the gap until innovation can catch up. Scientific data tells us that protecting and restoring nature can provide up to 30% of the GHG reduction required to limit the average temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius. If we’re going to flatten the climate curve and build a more sustainable future, we must make nature part of the solution.
In July 2020, P&G announced a new commitment to 
have its global operations be carbon neutral for the decade through a series of interventions that protect, improve and restore nature. Recognizing the next decade represents a critical window for the world to accelerate progress on climate change, P&G will go beyond its existing science-based target of reducing absolute GHG emissions 50% by 2030, to also advancing a portfolio of natural climate solutions. These efforts will deliver a carbon benefit that balances any remaining emissions over the next 10 years, allowing P&G operations to be carbon neutral for the decade. P&G will partner with Conservation International, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and other partners to identify and fund a range of projects designed to protect, improve and restore critical ecosystems like forests, wetlands, grasslands and peatlands. In addition to sequestering more carbon, an important aspect of natural climate solutions is the potential to deliver meaningful environmental and socioeconomic co-benefits that serve to protect and enhance nature and improve the livelihoods of local communities. As P&G moves forward, the Company will seek to identify, measure and communicate relevant co-benefits from its investment in nature.
P&G is developing a detailed project portfolio and 
investing in projects across the globe. Projects already identified include:
• Philippines Palawan Protection Project with Conservation International
• Brazil’s Atlantic Forest Restoration Planning  with WWF
• Evergreen Alliance with Arbor Day Foundation
This is our home, the time is now. Click here to learn more about P&G’s commitment to be carbon neutral for the decade.Climate
P&G’S CARBON NEUTRAL COMMITMENT  SOCIETY
148
EMPLOYEES  
Inspire and enable every P&G employee 
to build sustainability into their work and their communities.
• We will integrate social and environmental 
sustainability as a key strategy in our business plans
• We will educate employees across all levels
• We will reward progress and integrate recognition  
in the individual’s performance assessment
Inspire and enable every P&G employee 
to build sustainability into their work 
and their communities
• We will integrate social and environmental 
sustainability as a key strategy in our business plans.
• We will educate employees across all levels.
• We will reward progress and integrate recognition  
in the individual’s performance assessment.
149
Employees Encourage Sustainable Habits 
During Lockdown
When a group of sustainability-minded P&G employees 
found themselves spending more time at home during the Spring of 2020, they decided to film themselves sharing advice for adopting eco-conscious habits. The Sustainability@Home series of videos featured P&G experts talking about tips for saving water, recycling, saving energy and more, posted on the Company’s social media platforms throughout the lockdown days of April, May and June. The videos were well-received and turned these P&G employees into screen stars (for a few weeks) with lots of likes, shares and retweets. Annual Awards recognize P&G’s 
Outstanding Sustainability Leaders
Even though the Ambition 2030 awards on October 
1, 2020, was a virtual celebration, the enthusiasm and energy shone through. Hundreds of employees tuned into the broadcast to celebrate the best and brightest P&G teams and individuals who made extraordinary contributions to advance the Company’s sustainability progress in a year of unusual challenges. P&G employees awarded in 2020 include:
• Jeffrey Chen — Senior Vice President — Greater China 
• Freddy Bharucha — Senior Vice President — Personal Care, North America
• Brussels Innovation Center Sustainability Team
• Store Excellence Europe Sustainable Point of Sale
• P&G Walmart Team
• Angela Belcher — R&D Beauty Innovation Design Sustainability Leader
• Jennifer Chan — Product Supply Sustainability Leader, Global Fabric & Home Care
• Nicolas d’Avout — Finance & Sustainability Leader, Global Carrefour team
• Girish Deshpande — Palm Sustainability Leader
• Neil Lant — R&D Research Fellow —  Fabric & Home Care
• Victoria Monge — Electronic Invoicing Specialist — North America
• Cristina Morillo Gomez — Oral Care  Sustainability LeaderEMPLOYEES
Employees
SUSTAINABILITY AT HOME  
150
Employee Survey Results Demonstrate 
Sustainability is a High Priority Across P&G
In March 2020, more than 83% of employees declared 
they are contributing to the Company’s sustainability efforts in our annual employee survey. Many employees provided perspective that they value the Company’s work in the space and welcome the chance to put more effort into where we make the greatest difference: our brand innovations and corporate partnerships. 
P&Ger Wins WWF-Canada Employee 
Engagement Award
P&G employee Ashley Fill received the 2019 Workplace 
Champion of the Year Award from WWF-Canada. As the leader of the volunteer employee Sustainability Network for P&G Canada, Fill is passionate about bringing P&G’s Ambition 2030 to life. She led and executed the “Green for 2019” campaign with the goal of educating employees to reduce their personal environmental impact.Sparking Sustainable Thinking at Our 
Newcastle Innovation Centre
In December 2019, our Newcastle Innovation Centre 
(NIC) in the UK hosted its annual “Spark Innovation and Connections Event,” which is an internal celebration of the sustainability work being led by P&G employees, and provides an opportunity to learn what is happening externally to spark new ideas and connections. As part of the event, the site hosted internal and external inspirational speakers and showcased a range of NIC-led development projects. Chief Sustainability Officer Virginie Helias joined the event and thanked the local teams for their creative thinking and positive impact on site operations.Employees
EMPLOYEES
151
Health and Safety
The health and safety of our employees and our 
contractor partners is foundational to the Company and directly linked to our core values. Nothing we do is worth getting hurt. Safety can be managed. Every injury can and should be prevented. Safety is everyone’s responsibility.
The Company tracks our total injury rate (TIR) and lost 
work day case rate (LWDC). TIR includes any injury that requires medical treatment beyond first aid, including work restrictions. LWDC is a subset of all injuries that were serious enough to result in the individual missing the next assigned work shift. Our TIR target for both employees and contractors is 0.35 injuries per 200,000 hours. No targets are set for LWDC rates. To achieve these results, we have implemented an integrated Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) program. This program sets expectations that enable evaluation of each site’s leadership involvement, behavior and culture, equipment design and maintenance standards and training and procedures. We specifically focus on life-safety critical systems such as electrical safety, confined space entry, fall prevention/protection, material handling and isolation of hazardous energy. The TIR and LWDC rate results are summarized in the charts to the right.
FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate
(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20
Tracking Our Progress
The health and safety of our 
employees and our contractor 
partners is foundational to  
the Company and directly 
linked to our core values. 
152
Audit Programs
Our internal HSE audit program is designed to 
ensure sites are complying with both local regulatory requirements, as well as corporate polices, standards and procedures. These audits are completed at all plants, innovation centers and distribution centers worldwide. The audit program is designed to identify specific findings and classify those findings as critical, major or minor. Two separate audits are completed — an HSE audit and a fire protection audit. All findings are tracked to closure by the corporate HSE. The fundamental philosophy is to use the standards worldwide, implemented by trained HSE leaders and audited each year using a consistent, comprehensive approach. Audits measure performance against mandatory standards and operating procedures. The target is to have no critical findings and continually reduce the number of major or minor findings. This year, 98% of HSE audits were completed, and 24% of the fire protection audits were completed. Fire protection audits by an outside vendor were stopped in February 2020 due to COVID-19.  On average, 72% of the sites were assessed.Tracking Our Progress
96%
99% 20182019Sites Conducting Annual Audits
72% 2020
153
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
There are numerous health, safety and environmental 
requirements worldwide. Plants are subject to safety rules and emission limits with operating requirements that may be embodied in sources, such as statutes, regulations, laws and permits. It is our intent to comply with both the letter and the spirit of statutes, regulations, laws and permit requirements. Identified compliance issues are treated seriously, and all noncompliance matters are resolved as expeditiously as possible.Notices of Violation
We continually strive for zero notices or penalties. The charts below summarize data from the last three years and provide perspective on notices of violation (NOVs) received during FY19/20. Note, several fines are still under review but are included in the total numbers.
Here’s a breakdown of NOVs:Tracking Our Progress
ViolationNumber  
of NOVsFines
Water-Based 3 $665
Air-Based 3 $5,250
Solid-Waste-Based 2 $0
Paperwork 3 $74
Transportation-Based 3 $3,200
Other 0 $0
Worker Safety 7 $4,406
Total 21 $13,595Year Number Fines
2020 21 $13,595
2019 40 $62,060
2018 17 $249,430
154
Air Emissions
Each site assesses total suspended particulates,  
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulfur oxides (SOX).  The chart to the right summarizes data from the last three years.FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20
FY18/1918 FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
11 FY14/15
14 FY13/14
11 FY12/13
16 FY11/12
2 FY10/11
2 FY9/10FY18/19 6
1 FY8/9
1 FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
0.13
0.130.14 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)0.25
0.240.25 FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Incident Rate(Injury and illness per 100 employees)-91%
-82%-87% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
-27%
-25%-27% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
-19%
-18%-20% FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18FY19/20Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
FY18/19FY19/20
FY17/18Energy Consumption by GBUMillions of gigajoules
63
616135
8
3625
2
26567
64FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Water Consumption by GBUMillions of cubic meters
15 FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBUThousands of metric tonsFY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Disposed Waste by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Solid Waste Hazardous by GBUThousands of metric tons2.6
4.1
4.1Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
-25%
-25%-52%
50
68FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
1.6
1.61.6
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
0.1
0.10.2
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Particulate Matter (PM)
4.3
1.81.0
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.4
FY19/20
FY18/19
FY17/18Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.0Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherBaby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other216
2112 FY19/20
Tracking Our Progress
155
Facilities / LEED 
LEED®
We are committed to designing sustainability into our 
facilities, including pursuing LEED certification for all new facilities. We now have 46 project sites with LEED Silver or Gold certification.LEED certification of P&G facilities is an ongoing example of how we are focused on improving the environmental performance of our operations. 
P&G is a member of the U.S. Green Building 
Council (USGBC). To ensure ongoing excellence in the sustainable design of our operations, P&G has committed to LEED certification for all new construction of manufacturing plants, distribution centers and office buildings around the world.Location Gold Silver
Albany, GA, U.S. 1*
Amiens, France 1
Ben Cat, Vietnam 2
Box Elder, UT, U.S. 3*
Budapest, Hungary 1
Cabuyao, Philippines 1
Cape Girardeau, MO, U.S. 1*
Cincinnati, OH, U.S. 4
Cruzeiro do Sul, Brazil 1
Greensboro, NC, U.S. 1
Guangzhou, China 1 1
Gyongyos  2
Geneva, Switzerland  1
Hyderabad, India 1 3
Jakarta, Indonesia 4
Lagos, Nigeria 2
Mexico  1
Novomoskovsk 1*
Shiga, Japan  1*
Singapore 1
Tabler Station, WV, U.S. 7
Taicang, China 1 3
Total 6 40Box ElderCincinnati 
Greensboro Tabler Station
Cruz LagosGyongyos
HyderabadTaicang
Guangzhou
CabuyaoBen Cat
Singapore
JakartaAlbany Amiens
Cape Girardeau
MexicoGenevaBudapestNovomoskovsk
Shiga
*Represents a LEED v4 Certification at this location.LEED CERTIFICATION  
156
Environmental Resource and Waste Summary
The table below reports environmental statistics for Manufacturing Operations in our Global Business Units, Technical Centers and Distribution Centers.
Totals (absolute units x 1,000) 2020 Global Business Unit Detail1 (absolute units x 1,000)
2020 2019 2018Baby, Feminine 
and Family Care BeautyFabric and  
Home Care Grooming Health Care Other
Production (metric tons)
Finished Products Manufactured215,357 15,204 15,101 2,851 1,989 9,843 166 509 N/A
Raw Materials from Recycled Sources3708 674 632
Manufacturing Waste (metric tons)
Solid Waste Generated 874 648 621 267 102 248 35 39 183
% Recycled/Reused Waste 99.0% 96.0% 94.1% 99.8% 99.1% 98.0% 100.0% 99.9% 98.8%
% Disposed — Hazardous 0.2% 0.3% 0.4% 0.0% 0.6% 0.3% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1%
% Disposed — Non-Hazardous 0.8% 3.7% 5.6% 0.2% 0.3% 1.7% 0.0% 0.1% 1.1%
Other Waste (metric tons)
Effluents (excluding water)415 16 21 3.92 2.86 6.34 0.18 1.08 0.28
Air Emissions510 7 8 8.26 0.16 1.77 0.05 0.11 0.14
Construction & Demolition Waste 4 5 15 3.21 0.00 0.44 0.09 0.10 0.13
Energy and Greenhouse Gas (GHG)
Energy Consumption (gigajoules) 62,823 61,375 61,135 40,741 3,687 11,161 2,475 2,112 2,647
Total GHG Emissions (metric tons)62,619 4,060 4,081 1,738 166 489 78 55 93
Scope 1 — Direct GHG Emissions (metric tons) 2,218 2,217 2,162 1,632 88 318 64 51 64
Scope 2 — Indirect GHG Emissions (metric tons)7402 1,843 1,919 106 77 171 14 4 29
Biogenic GHG Emissions (metric tons) 50 57 68
Water (cubic meters)
Water Consumption 67,049 64,296 65,028 41,164 5,930 15,091 1,102 2,200 1,562
1  B aby, Feminine and Family Care includes Baby Care, Feminine Care and Family Care. Beauty Care includes Hair Care and 
Skin & Personal Care. Fabric and Home Care includes Fabric Care, Home Care and Chemicals. Grooming includes Blades 
and Razors and Devices. Health Care includes Personal Health Care and Oral Care. Other includes major stand-alone offices/technical centers that support the business units and our largest distribution facilities. Numbers do not include production from contract manufacturing operations.
2  E stimated from FY19/20 finished product production volumes. Updated to exclude intermediate products that are used as 
raw materials in other P&G categories.3 Data is tracked at a corporate level.
4 Wastewater chemical oxygen demand (COD).5 Air emissions include particulates, SO2, NOX, CO and VOC.6 Total GHG emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2. Scope 2 emissions calculated using a market-based method.7 Market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. Note: Location-based Scope 2 emissions 2020 were 2,566,617 metric tons.
157
2020 Goal Measurement Systems 
We go to great lengths to ensure rigor, accuracy and transparency in our reporting.  
Below, we share additional information on some of our 2020 Goal Measurement Systems  
to help ensure clarity and transparency on the data we are reporting.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG)  
For the purposes of monitoring progress against our  goal and listing emissions levels in charts and graphs, we utilize market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. The WRI/WBCSD GHG accounting protocol provides additional perspective on market-based versus location-based GHG emissions. 
Our GHG emissions data has been verified by  
an external third party, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA).Low-Energy Cycle Machine Washing Loads  
In 2019, we reported that 70% of machine loads were being done in low-energy cycles, meeting our goal. This was determined by carefully reviewing habits and practices data to help us assess progress against our low-energy washing goal. Cycles included in our tracking were cold cycles in traditional top-load machines and cold and warm cycles in all high-efficiency HE machines (top and front loading).
Packaging Reduction  
The average packaging reduction is calculated using 
products that represent the top 70% (by volume) of the categories that have the largest impact on packaging use (Fabric Care, Home Care, Baby Care, Feminine Care, Family Care, Oral Care, Personal Cleansing, Shave Prep, Hair Color and Hair Care). While a subset of overall data, we believe it is representative of overall corporate data and focuses resources on the biggest SKUs and categories with the biggest impact on packaging. 
GHG PROTOCOLS  Global Measurement and  
Additional Operational Data
We go to great lengths  
to ensure rigor, accuracy  
and transparency  
in our report.
LLOYD’S REGISTER QUALITY ASSURANCE  
158
2020 Goal Measurement Systems 
Recyclability of Packaging  
For purposes of tracking progress against our goal, a 
package is considered recyclable when there is an 
in-market, at-scale recycling system in place for that 
material type (e.g., collection, sortation, processing 
for end use and established end-market for collected 
material). While we require large-scale systems to be 
in place in at least one geography, we do not require 
a minimum percent access or recovery rate per 
package in every country or market for the package 
to be considered recyclable for purposes of tracking 
progress versus our goal.
Paper Packaging  
Data for calculating progress versus our paper 
packaging goal was self-reported by our suppliers.  
The data collected this year covered materials 
procured directly by the Company as well as contractor 
manufacturers and covered more than 98% of our 
global spend.Renewable Energy  
When calculating the renewable energy powering our 
plants, we include the renewable energy level of the 
local electrical grid that provides power to the plant.
Water Conservation  
Our goal to reduce water use in manufacturing 
facilities by 20% per unit of production applies to freshwater consumption, which means freshwater 
intake from the following sources:
• Tap water: water supplied by municipalities or third-party companies via piping systems or trucks, at any quality they deliver
• Ground water from site wells
• Surface water: non-brackish as rivers, lakes, creeks, etc., at any quality they deliver
• Purchased steam: water supplied in the form of steam purchased from third-party companies.
Venezuela  
Due to current conditions in Venezuela and consistent 
with how we have approached other corporate 
reporting, we have excluded our three facilities in 
Venezuela from the manufacturing data included in 
this report. For transparency, the estimated combined 
data from these three sites within our 2010 baseline 
was energy (353,752 gigajoules), water (233,188 cubic 
meters), and GHG emissions (20,589 metric tons), 
which represents less than 0.5% of the respective 
global footprints. These changes have already been 
incorporated into the baseline restatement. Baseline Restatement  
This year, we adjusted our GHG emissions baseline in 
accordance with the principles in the WRI and WBCSD 
Corporate Standard for greenhouse gas Accounting. 
Changes included adjustments for acquisitions and 
divestitures, as well as other minor modifications and corrections to historic data. Our original baseline was 
5,466,601 metric tons. Our revised baseline, which we 
will use for calculating progress versus GHG emissions 
reduction goals, is now 5,421,120 metric tons. As 
part of this work, we also updated our baselines for 
energy, water and waste. Original energy baseline was 
67,904,220 gigajoules. It is now 63,886,813 gigajoules. 
Original water baseline was 77,049,114 cubic meters. 
It is now 76,208,753 cubic meters. Original waste 
disposed was 354,563 metric tons. It is now 335,552 
metric tons. The baseline year remains the same: the 
Company’s FY09/10.Global Measurement and  
Additional Operational Data
159
At P&G, we serve nearly five billion people around  
the world with our brands. We have operations in nearly 
70 countries and have one of the strongest portfolios 
of trusted, quality and leadership brands. As we serve the world’s consumers, we believe in, and have publicly committed to, doing what’s right and being a good corporate citizen.Ethics & Corporate  
Responsibility
160
Ethics & Corporate  
Responsibility
Message from Debbie Majoras  
Our Purpose, Values and Principles  
Good Governance  
Respecting Human Rights  
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees  Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Consumers  
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Supply Chain  
Speaking Up  
Stakeholder Engagement  
161
DEBBIE MAJORAS
Chief Legal Officer  
and SecretaryMessage from  
Debbie Majoras
When we first established our Citizenship focus areas several 
years ago, we included Ethics & Corporate Responsibility as a 
separate focus. But what became clear over time is that Ethics & 
Corporate Responsibility is the foundation for all our citizenship 
work — the base from which it all builds — rather than a separate 
focus area. From long experience, we know that a sustainably 
strong business depends on maintaining strong ethical, 
compliance and quality standards. It is equally true that for all 
our citizenship work to be credible and impactful, it must be 
firmly rooted in our Purpose, Values and Principles.
162
Our Purpose, Values and Principles (PVPs) are the foundation of who we are. 
Our Purpose is to improve consumers’ lives in small but meaningful ways, 
and it inspires our people to make a positive contribution every day. Our 
Values of Integrity, Leadership, Ownership, Passion for Winning and Trust 
shape how we work with each other and with our partners. And our Principles 
articulate our deliberate approach to conducting work every day. We know 
that P&G employees believe in the personal and business value of this PVP 
foundation — our PVPs are consistently cited in our annual employee survey  
as the number one aspect of our culture that employees would not change.  Our philosophy is that a reputation of trust and integrity is built over time, 
earned every day and provides lasting value for our stakeholders.Our Purpose, Values  
and Principles
PURPOSE, VALUES AND PRINCIPLES  
163
Our PVPs further inform our approach to corporate governance. We believe that strong  
governance practices contribute to better results for shareholders. We maintain governance  
principles, policies and practices that support Board and management accountability  
and serve the best interests of our Company, our shareholders and our many stakeholders.
Board Leadership and Oversight
The importance of strong leadership and effective 
oversight has only increased as companies face growing external challenges and an ever-changing operating environment. We have seen this firsthand in the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on governments, businesses and communities. Our commitment to, and guiding principles for, strong governance continue to provide an important foundation for our Company as we navigate these challenges and respond to new opportunities.
The key principles and practices we follow include:
• Fully independent Board committees 
• Annual assessment and determination of the Board’s 
leadership structure
• Election of a Lead Director, with significant governance responsibilities, if the Chairman / CEO roles are combined
• Annual review of the Company’s key legal and compliance risks, including mitigation strategies and compliance priorities, and review of the conclusions and recommendations generated by the Company’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process•   S ignificant Director interaction with senior business 
leaders, both in business and operations reviews and in oversight of succession planning 
We describe these and other practices in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, which we continually assess and update as appropriate based on feedback from our investors and stakeholders and our own review of external best practices. For example, we are a signatory to the Commonsense Corporate Governance Principles 2.0, reflecting our commitment to a foundation of effective governance. Further, we assess our practices against external benchmarks like the Investor Stewardship Group’s Corporate Governance Principles, generally finding that our practices closely align with these ideals. Overall, we believe our approach to governance strengthens the Board’s ability to provide meaningful oversight, review and counsel to the 
Company, as it acts on behalf of all our shareholders.Good Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES  
164
Board Oversight of Equality and Inclusion
Our Company has an unwavering commitment to 
equality and inclusion. This commitment begins with our Board of Directors, cascades throughout the organization, and informs the work we do each day. The Board and its Compensation & Leadership Development (C&LD) Committee review and discuss all facets of  equality and inclusion throughout the year, including talent development from recruiting to retirement, succession planning, key workplace policies and the Company’s efforts to use its voice externally to encourage meaningful conversations on this important topic. Recent Board reviews include:
• C&LD Committee review of the Company’s diversity programs and progress with the Chief Equality & Inclusion Officer;
• C&LD Committee review of “next generation” top talent, to assess diversity and development opportunities in the Company’s leadership succession pipeline;
• Board review of the Company’s recruiting programs, including efforts to attract diverse candidates;
• Board review of workplace policies and employee survey results with the Chief Human Resources Officer and Chief Legal Officer; and
• Board review of the Company’s external efforts to promote gender equality and diversity and inclusion with the Chief Brand Officer. Board Oversight of Sustainability
In a world where sustainable lifestyles have become more important than ever, the Company’s brands must meet performance expectations, while also helping to address some of the most complex challenges facing our world. The Board oversees these efforts, with help from the Governance & Public Responsibility (G&PR) Committee — which reviews the Company’s sustainability goals and assesses its progress — and the Innovation & Technology (I&T) Committee — which helps ensure that sustainability is built into the Company’s innovation strategy. Recent Board reviews include:
• G&PR Committee review of the Company’s Ambition 2030 goals and strategies for achieving those goals;
• G&PR Committee review of the Company’s external sustainability communications as part of its Citizenship reporting;
• I&T Committee review of sustainability as part the Company’s key Business Unit innovation plans;
• Board review of the Company’s most significant product and packaging sustainability innovations; and 
• Board review of enterprise risks, including 
sustainability-related challenges.Good Governance
Our Company has  
an unwavering commitment  
to equality and inclusion.
165
As a key component of its oversight, the Board and its committees devote substantial time 
not only to strategy but to the review of core matters of corporate culture like ethics and compliance, cybersecurity, pay equity, environmental sustainability and human capital management. The full Board provides strategic oversight and monitors emerging priorities and risks in these and other areas, while each committee devotes further attention to particular matters within its scope.
Audit Committee 
Oversees the Company’s overall risk management 
process, including financial controls and integrity and meets regularly with the chief ethics and compliance officer, reviewing key enterprise risks and  cybersecurity programs.
Governance & Public  
Responsibility Committee 
Oversees matters related to the Company’s corporate governance practices and policies, including  Board composition, Director succession planning  and independence and oversees the Company’s  geo-political risks and community and environmental impact, assessing our practices and progress against key benchmarks.Compensation & Leadership  
Development Committee 
Oversees the development and succession planning of the Company’s CEO and other executive officers, monitors gender pay equity, reviews organizational equality and inclusion programs and progress and ensures our executive compensation practices are balanced in rewarding holistic, long-term growth.
Innovation & Technology Committee 
Oversees the Company’s innovation and technology programs, including the responsible integration  of new technology into our innovation strategy,  while also considering how these programs incorporate the Company’s sustainability and ingredient safety priorities.
This broad scope of Board and Committee oversight and the resulting active engagement 
of our Directors help ensure that our Company’s values, our leadership’s behaviors and  our employees’ efforts are ultimately linked to our Company strategy in a meaningful  and effective way.Good GovernanceBOARD COMPOSITION
As a global, diverse consumer products 
company, we strive to reflect the diversity of our workforce in our boardroom. Not only do our Directors bring to the Board significant and varied leadership skills and experiences, they represent a mix of background, age, gender, race and life experience that informs their leadership and strengthens their oversight.
 
On Our Current Board:6/12 (50%)   
members are women  
 
3/12 (25%)  members are ethnically diverse  
 
7/12 (58%)  members have served fewer than  six years, with average tenure of  about seven years  
4/12 (33%)  members joined within  
the last three years   
8/12 (67%)  members are current or  
former public company CEOs 
The Board’s overall diversity is a key priority and significant consideration in our Director nomination process. Of the five Directors who joined the Board in the last four years, three were women and three were ethnically diverse. 
166
Respecting Human Rights
WHAT DO YOU SEE AT THE OFFICE?  
WHAT DO YOU SEE AT THE PLANT?  
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU SPEAK UP?  
Our short videos illustrate how  
to spot problems in the office  
and manufacturing facilities. 
Respect for human rights is fundamental to the way we manage our business. Our Human 
Rights Policy Statement communicates our support for the U.N. Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights, which respects and honors the principles of internationally recognized human rights consisting of those rights expressed in the International Bill of Human Rights (i.e., Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenants on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and Civil and Political Rights) and the principles concerning fundamental rights as set out in the International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We recognize that it is the sovereign state’s duty to 
protect against human rights abuses by establishing and upholding appropriate laws and policies. We also recognize that some states do not have adequate legal and regulatory frameworks or enforcement mechanisms or have laws that conflict with these internationally recognized human rights. Even where this is the case, we are committed to doing the right thing by respecting human rights in every aspect of our business operations. We embrace this commitment and responsibility of ensuring that human rights are upheld all along our end-to-end value chain, which in turn encompasses all our stakeholders, particularly our employees, our consumers, the communities where we do business and our business partners.As part of a wider learning program, we have developed a series of short videos (less than two minutes each) to help our employees and our vendors and contractors recognize human rights issues in the workplace. By educating them to spot problems in  the office and manufacturing facilities, we empower them to speak up and get help for others.
167
Respecting Human Rights
PRIORITY INDUSTRY PRINCIPLES  U.N. GLOBAL LGBTI STANDARDS  No Child Labor
The ILO states that “Child Labor is often defined as work 
that deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity and that is harmful to physical and mental development. It refers to work that: is mentally, physically, socially or morally dangerous and harmful to children and interferes with their schooling by: depriving them of the opportunity to attend school; obliging them to leave school prematurely; or requiring them to attempt to combine school attendance with excessively long and heavy work.” We do not permit the exploitation of children and will not use child labor in our end-to-end value chain.
No Forced Labor
We support the Consumer Goods Forum Priority Industry Principles, which state: “Forced labor is an unacceptable human rights violation that can take multiple forms and must be addressed. While certain employment and recruitment practices may not initially appear problematic, in aggregate or combined with other forms of leverage, they can result in forced labor, particularly among vulnerable workers. We will take active measures to apply these Principles across our global value chains and own operations, to cases where such practices may lead to forced labor. We will seek to apply these Principles to all workers regardless of their employment status, location, contractual arrangements or role. We do this as part of our collective journey to advance the human rights of workers and positively shape global labor markets.”
PRIORITY INDUSTRY PRINCIPLES
I.  E very worker should have freedom of movement. 
The ability of workers to move freely should not be 
restricted by their employer through abuse, threats and practices, such as retention of passports and valuable possessions.
II.  N o worker should pay for a job.  
Fees and costs associated with recruitment and employment should be paid by the employer,  not the employee.
III.  N o worker should be indebted or coerced  
to work.   
Workers should work freely, aware of the terms  and conditions of their work in advance, and  paid regularly as agreed.Non-Discrimination
We are deeply committed to an inclusive culture and do not discriminate against individuals on the basis of race, color, gender, age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, marital status, citizenship, disability, veteran status, HIV/AIDS status or any other legally protected factor. P&G supports the U.N. Global LGBTI Standards for Business and is a founding member of the Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality (PGLE), which is a coalition of organizations committed to leveraging their individual and collective advocacy to accelerate LGBTI equality and inclusion globally and drive positive change.
Freedom of Association and Collective 
Bargaining
We respect our employees’ right to choose to join 
or not to join a trade union or to have recognized employee representation in accordance with local law. Where employees are represented by a legally recognized union or employee representative, we are committed to establishing a constructive dialogue regarding the interests of both the employees and the business. The Company will negotiate a labor agreement in good faith with such representatives in accordance with local law. Whether the facility is union or non-union, we strive to create a high-performing workforce — where employees are highly-engaged, multi-skilled and process owners.
168
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees
WBCM  
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS POLICY  We bring our values to life as we focus on improving consumers’ lives now and for  
generations to come. We recruit, hire and retain the best talent from around the world,  
reflecting the diversity of the markets and consumers we serve. Developing and retaining  a diverse workforce provides us with a sustained competitive advantage. We recognize  
that a diverse mix of backgrounds, skills and experiences drives new ideas, products and  services. This maximizes our ability to achieve our goals together.
Confidence and Trust 
We strive to promote a work environment of 
confidence and trust. Our Worldwide Business Conduct Manual (WBCM) and Employee Rights Policy provides employees with clear guidance on specific situations they may face and directs them where to go when they have questions or concerns. We are a recognized leader in providing a safe, healthy, secure and productive work environment. We are committed to maintaining a workplace that is free of violence, harassment, intimidation or other unsafe or disruptive behaviors or conditions due to threats inside or outside of our facilities. Each employee has a personal responsibility to their fellow employees and to the Company to follow all Company safety and security procedures, as well as applicable laws and regulations. Our “Do the Right Thing” training series enables continuous learning and support for our employees. The all-employee general training session is derived from our WBCM principles — Respect, Integrity and Stewardship — and other ethics and compliance topics related to the given theme. In addition, we deploy breakout training sessions based on organizational needs. In fiscal year 2019-2020, the general training session was: “Doing the Right Thing — Integrity at P&G,” and the breakout training sessions were: “Handling Personal Data Basics” and “Working with External Parties.” We have also developed a course that explains P&G’s Acceptable Use of Technology Assets Policy. 
We have a library of engaging, custom-built training 
courses, which are available to all employees as a resource and are further assigned based on role and location to maximize relevance and impact. These address conflicts of interest, stopping retaliation, opposing bribery and other areas. In 2017, we partnered with a renowned behavioral scientist and an award- winning documentary filmmaker to create a series of short films that spotlight clinical research on integrity and feature P&G leaders and employees reflecting on “doing the right thing.” This miniseries of five episodes has been hailed for its cinematic style, the genuine and unscripted participation by executive leadership, and its candid discussion of human vulnerability to the challenges, pressures and unseen psychological factors for which we all must be vigilant. In 2019, we launched a new series of video vignettes to help employees learn from the ethical missteps of others. The stories, based on actual events, are anonymized, digitally animated and presented in a compelling first-person style that conveys the wisdom of hindsight to improve the power of foresight for viewers. 
169
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees
Since its inception in 2016,
hundreds 
of employees have  
been recognized as  
PVP Champions.Celebrating Our Do the Right Thing Culture 
Every year, we celebrate our shared Purpose, Values 
and Principles (PVP) foundation with the “Do the Right Thing Celebration.” Our locations around the world create their own employee engagement events tied to a global theme derived from our WBCM principles of Respect, Integrity and Stewardship. The 2019 celebration theme was “Integrity. The Heartbeat of Our PVPs.” Events feature activities and contests to engage employees and raise awareness, leadership townhall discussions and inspiring videos from employees making a difference. Sites are recognized for the outstanding results in the areas of creativity, engagement and passionate leadership. Though we set high standards for all employees, those who personally demonstrate commitment to ethics and compliance can also be recognized by peers or managers with a special “PVP Champion” designation. Since its inception in 2016, hundreds of employees have been recognized. In addition to these local activations, our 2019 celebration featured a recorded townhall discussion led by Matthew Price, P&G President for Greater China, sharing what he has learned firsthand about the pivotal role integrity and strong stewardship play in improving business performance.  
170
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees
This image describes the types 
of benefits that P&G offers to its employees around the world.  Some of the benefits described  
in the Benefits Navigator may  
not be available to all employees at all locations. P&G also may offer some benefits not described in the Benefits Navigator to employees  in some locations.BENEFITS NAVIGATOR EMPLOYEE WELLBEINGCompensation and Benefits
P&G supports paying employees competitive total 
compensation, as benchmarked against other leading companies. The Company is a recognized leader in employee benefits, which have been developed to help protect the financial security of employees. While offerings vary depending on each country’s market practices, they include benefits like comprehensive coverage for health care, a competitive pension scheme, paid parental leave, vacation and holiday time 
and other work/family balance benefits, including 
flextime and less-than-full-time schedules, all subject 
to local requirements.
We are also committed to recognizing and rewarding 
individual and team performance that reflects behaviors 
consistent with our PVPs and PEAK Performance 
Factors (Lead with Courage, Innovate for Growth, Champion Productivity, Execute with Excellence and Bring Out Our Best). Recognition helps confirm achievements, contributes to employees feeling valued and encourages them to give their very best. It provides evidence that others believe in what we do and that we are doing the right things to help us succeed.
Family
Other 
BeneF itsFinancial
time away 
FrO m w Orkhealth
& welFare
ViBrant 
liVing
P&G Patterned CirclesBenefits navigator
•Health Fair
•Blood Donations
•Vaccinations
•Fitness Centers•Paid Parental Leave
•Adoption / Surrogacy
Assistance
•Flexible Spending Account –
Child / Dependent Care
•Perks at Work
•Flexible Work Arrangements
•Service Awards
•Legal Services
•Annual Gift• Medical Plans
•Health Savings Accounts
•Dental Plan
•Vision Plan
•MyHealth MyRewards
•WorkLife Solutions / EAP•Health Flexible Spending
Arrangement
• Disability
•Life Insurances
• Bereavement Leave
•Paid Time Off
–Personal
–Regular Vacation Days
–Purchased Vacation Days
–Company Holidays• Military Leave
• Personal Leave of
Absence
• Family Medical Leave
•Volunteerism• Profit Sharing
•Pension Plans
•401K
• Stock Purchase• Employee Initiated Education
Reimbursement
• Retirement Readiness – The Basics
•Financial Eductaion Services
The Benefits Navigator describes the types of benefits that P&G offers to its employees around the 
world. Some of the benefits described in the Benefits Navigator may not be available to all employees at all locations. P&G also may offer some benefits not described in the Benefits Navigator to employees in some locations.
171
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees
Employee and Labor Relations
At P&G, we believe an engaged and capable 
workforce is critical to the Company’s success. A key strategy to winning in the marketplace is to create a highly-skilled, agile and flexible workforce that delivers business initiatives — better than our competition. 
We offer an expansive array of skill-building programs 
that allow employees to grow their individual skills, leading to better business results and career advancement. These programs help to ensure a strong and highly-skilled labor workforce that benefits  
the Company as well as the communities in which  
we operate.
We regularly assess employee and labor relations 
through standard Company tools like our Corporate Employee Engagement Survey and the Labor  Relations Compliance & Health Assessment Tool.  These assessments allow us to proactively identify  and address any individual or employee group concerns that may potentially impact employee engagement, company policies or compliance  with local laws or regulations. 
172
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Consumers
Relentlessly pursue 
the best and safest 
ingredients from both 
science and nature.
Lead by sharing the 
what, where and how 
of our ingredients.
Collaborate to solve 
big ingredient and 
material challenges.
Since 1837, we’ve built a rich heritage of positively impacting consumers’  
lives with brands that make each day a little better.
Earning Your Trust Through Product Safety and Transparency
At P&G, nothing is more important than ensuring our 
products are safe for consumers. Providing people the information they need to make more informed choices while continually improving our product portfolio with the product performance and ingredient preferences they seek remains a core focus for the Company. Throughout our history, P&G has provided products  of superior value and performance. To make products of superior value and performance, we must have  high quality, safe ingredients. These ingredients can  be sourced from science or nature — as long as they are proven safe. Innovation with ingredients is an  ever-evolving area where we invest many resources  to develop new options and continually consider  what is possible. 
This year, we launched several new items which bring 
new ingredients for a superior consumer experience. For example: 
Oral-B PureActiv  is a toothpaste with the purity of 
nature and the expertise of Oral-B. With 92% naturally 
derived ingredients like peppermint, spearmint, stevia and sorbitol — it’s an expert clean that tastes great. All of these ingredients are carefully crafted to give consumers the best of both worlds, the purity of nature they value and the effectiveness of Oral-B.
Febreze LIGHT Air Effects gently removes odors 
with just a hint of scent. There are no dyes or heavy perfumes, either. That’s because this spray gently cleans away odors from the air without them.
173
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Consumers
2019 Safer Choice Partner of the Year by 
the Environmental Protection Agency
P&G was recognized as a 2019 Safer Choice Partner 
of the Year by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The award recognizes selected products in P&G’s Home Made Simple™ product portfolio for outstanding achievement in the design, manufacture, selection and use of its dish, fabric and surface cleaning products developed in accordance with EPA Safer Choice criteria. All of the bottles are 100% recyclable and the laundry detergent bottles are made from 25% or more post-consumer recycled plastic. We are honored to be recognized as an EPA Safer Choice Partner, providing consumers with irresistibly superior household cleaning products that are safe and deliver the cleaning consumers expect from P&G’s trusted  and well-known brands. Ingredient Disclosures
Not only are we innovating with product ingredients and sourcing choices, we are also sharing more about those choices. Our brand websites and pg.com  
offer more information than ever before about our ingredients, making it easy to discover a product’s ingredients, as well as what we simply won’t use. 
Since 2018, P&G has supported ingredient disclosure  
in North America with all formulated product ingredients listed in SmartLabel. In 2020, we delivered on our expanded transparency commitment in North America to share the ingredients in our fragrances down to 0.01%. Today, the details of our fragrance formulas can be found in Smart Label™, including descriptions of the fragrance ingredients we use. 
P&G’s Home Made Simple™ was 
recognized as a 2019 Safer Choice 
Partner of the Year.
2019 SAFER CHOICE PARTNER OF THE YEAR  P&G FRAGRANCE INGREDIENTS  We delivered on our  
expanded transparency  
commitment in North  
America to share the  
ingredients in our  
fragrances down to 0.01%.
174
Going Beyond Ingredient Transparency 
and Exploring Supply Traceability
Tampax PURE is raising the bar in ingredient 
transparency by showing where the organic cotton  is harvested and how the tampons are made using  an ingredient tracking system.*
Additionally, our brand websites are offering more 
information about the safety process we follow to ensure our products are safe to use as directed. Consumers can see this come to life through a  few examples here:Safe ingredients and products never go out of style —  so we will continue innovating with ingredients to provide new solutions for life’s everyday demands.   One example of advancing safety science is the work on qualifying botanical extracts for use in a range of consumer goods. This white paper presents guidance for assessing the safe use of botanicals in beauty products, with historical case examples, practical tools and background knowledge. P&G hopes this work will help ensure all botanicals used in beauty products will be safely enjoyed by consumers throughout the world.
We are committed to collaborating on the 
biggest ingredient and materials challenges to ensure we continue to be a force for good and a force for growth — in all we do.
HERBAL ESSENCES GERMANY  SAFE USE OF BOTANICALS WHITE PAPER  
ALWAYS FRANCE  
ARIEL UK  Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Consumers
*P&G is piloting this unique technology and it’s currently available in the U.S. and Canada for Tampax PURE.
12 Safe use of botanicals in beauty products
IMMEDIATE ALLERGY SAFETY
Type I allergy is where the human body produces 
IgE allergic antibodies in response to a foreign substance (an ‘allergen’), leading to an inflammatory response and the development of symptoms such as conjunctivitis, hives, asthma, or anaphylaxis. This can be triggered via four main routes of exposure to an allergen; inhalation, ocular, dermal and systemic (Krutz et al., 2019).
Allergens are often specific proteins, and each protein 
can be assigned a level of allergenic potential. A protein can be considered to have a low allergenic potential if there is evidence of ongoing human exposure without reports of an allergic reaction (Krutz et al., 2019). Databases such as Allergome can also be used to understand whether the structure of particular proteins contains any IgE-binding antigens, the lack of which would provide good evidence for the lack of allergenicity. Proteins with a higher molecular weight (>2.5 kDa, or 20-30 amino acids) should be considered potential allergens unless there is significant evidence to the contrary.
A pragmatic approach to reducing this effect is 
avoiding known sources of allergens. If possible, botanicals with a low protein content should be used, unless the protein is the functional bioactive component (Troyano et al., 2011). For example, P&G generally avoid using globally recognised food allergens, such as tree nuts, celery, and sesame seeds, in their beauty products (Troyano et al., 2011), as they could elicit a response in individuals already sensitised (allergic) to these foods.
One of the most common routes of exposure by which 
beauty products can cause Type I allergy is through direct inhalation of aerosols, such as deodorant and hair spray. It is also possible to indirectly inhale more viscous topical products, such as shampoos, conditioners, and body washes, when small amounts combine with fine water vapour in the shower. There have also been cases where residual topical body moisturisers, applied to the body the day before, have atomised off the skin in the shower the next morning and been inhaled (Kelling et al., 1998). 
Botanical ingredients intended for use in direct spray 
products and/or used (e.g. shampoo) or washed off in the shower (e.g. body lotion) are tested for total protein content and the resulting protein exposure must be lower than the allergy benchmark before they are included in a beauty product. Proposed protein exposure should be below the protective allergy benchmark of 0.1 ng/m
3 (Troyano et al., 2011). SAFE USE OF BOTANICALS 
IN BEAUTY PRODUCTS
SAFE USE OF BOTANICALS 
IN BEAUTY PRODUCTS
SAFE USE OF BOTANICALS 
IN BEAUTY PRODUCTS
175
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Consumers
GLOBAL CONSUMER PRIVACY POLICY  We’ve built global and  
regional corporate privacy 
compliance processes  
to help ensure that privacy 
compliance is driven  
through every part of the 
organization in a  
sustainable manner. EQUALITY & INCLUSION:  
OUR VOICE IN ADVERTISING  Our Voice in Advertising and Media
We’ve made a choice to step up and use our voice 
in advertising as a force for good and a force for growth — by taking a stand on equality. We recognize that P&G and our leadership brands can make a meaningful impact with our wide reach, as images and portrayals of people in advertising embed memories which can lead to bias. That’s why, as the world’s largest advertiser, we’ve committed to use our voice to shed a light on bias and promote equality.Keeping Privacy and Security Strong  
 — Protecting Personal Information
Our stakeholders — whether consumers, employees, shareholders or vendors — trust that P&G will ensure that appropriate privacy measures are implemented to transparently process personal information, and information security controls will be in place to help safeguard critical business and personal information. Our stakeholders also expect that we take appropriate steps to ensure that personal data is maintained with due confidentiality, appropriate integrity and is retrievable when needed.
We believe in having a strong culture of protecting our 
stakeholders’ personal information in order to build a relationship of trust with them. With that in mind, we continue to develop a strong information security program to help ensure we have the appropriate levels of controls to secure the data both internally and externally. We also believe in transparency, which is why we consistently update our consumer and employee privacy policies, as well as disclosures to clearly communicate how we collect, use and protect consumer personal information. P&G is committed to using consumer personal information only for the purpose of improving the content, products and services offered and implements strong data retention and minimization standards. We also provide consumers with the ability to control the manner in which P&G uses their personal information as set out  in applicable laws.Our privacy policies also detail the steps we take to protect personal information from loss, misuse or alteration. These steps can include technical measures like firewalls, intrusion detection and prevention systems, unique and complex passwords and encryption. Our intent is to implement appropriate safeguards to attempt to protect against evolving and emerging privacy risks across the globe, even where the laws may not require it.
P&G has built global and regional corporate privacy 
compliance processes to help ensure that privacy compliance is driven through every part of the organization in a sustainable manner. We continue to refine and update these programs internally, while ensuring that we also drive compliance with our suppliers through privacy and information security assessments and contractual obligations.
In addition, we drive a culture of compliance through 
the training of employees on data processing and privacy obligations, centralized identification and management of security incidents and risks, restricting employee access to personal information on a need-to-know basis, and implementing appropriate security measures, including appropriately securing documents when not being used by the employee.
176
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Supply Chain
We are proud to be  
a leader in supply  
chain responsibility.
P&G cannot deliver products to our consumers without collaboration from our External 
Business Partners, and we are making intentional choices to include them on our journey 
to be a force for good and force for growth. From transparent sourcing practices that aid consumer decision-making to growing shareholder value through innovation-driving programs like global supplier diversity, P&G is proud to be a leader in supply chain responsibility. We continue to evolve our strategies for supplier diversity, responsible sourcing and sustainable innovation to manage risk and bring value to our brands, businesses and consumers but also to amplify and accelerate the positive impact we  can have on the people in our supply chain and the planet. 
To assist in collaboration on making progress, 
we had approximately 290 suppliers share their data and programs with P&G in 2019, and in 2020, we invited more than 1,000 to participate in this growing engagement. With almost 40% of our spend represented by respondents, we were proud to learn that 74% of our respondents have a written Diversity & Inclusion program, 81% have a process to monitor and assess equal pay and 87% have a corporate Community Impact program or initiative. We are doing more to help our partners accelerate their work, including developing toolkits, introducing them to our thought leaders and think tanks we work with, and continuing our investment in Supplier Summits, the last of which was attended by more than 400 external visitors to Cincinnati to learn all about our sustainability work. We will continue to encourage and help our External Business Partners learn and do more in each space  as this collaboration is critical to amplify our  collective results.
177
Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Supply Chain
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING GUIDELINES  
FOR EXTERNAL BUSINESS PARTNERS  We have clear owners 
and action plans to 
proactively remediate 
issues with labor 
standards, health 
and safety concerns, 
environmental issues 
and business ethics.
Responsible Sourcing
Our vision is to be the company with the most responsible, ethical and transparent  
supply chain, which positively impacts the world’s greatest challenges. 
We have several initiatives underway that allow us 
to continuously assess or monitor human rights and environmental risks in our supply chains. We work across corporate and business unit resources to evaluate the need for robust responsible sourcing programs, sharing and reapplying from each other.  This includes a refreshed social audit strategy and  work process, whereby we leverage the work and systems of our partner, SEDEX. This new approach has allowed us to focus on  suppliers that are located in countries with higher risk to human rights and efficiently tracks progress by our suppliers on scheduling and conducting audits. We have clear owners and action plans to proactively remediate issues with labor standards, health and safety concerns, environmental issues and business ethics. In these and other efforts, we build a robust system of business partners that is fully integrated  and synchronized with our business and values.
178
MORE EQUALITY & INCLUSION INITIATIVES  AMBITION 2030  Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Supply Chain
Supplier Diversity 
When our supplier ecosystem reflects the diversity 
of our consumers, our business grows and the communities in which we live and operate thrive. P&G’s supplier diversity work in the United States, we strategically spend money with businesses owned by minorities, women, LGBTQ+, people with disabilities and U.S. Veterans. Since 2008, we have spent more than $2 billion annually with diverse-owned businesses in the U.S., and now track our growing spend with women-owned businesses globally. Supplier diversity is a competitive advantage for us, and we are committed to drive economic empowerment across our end-to-end supply chain. For this reason, we help and encourage our External Business Partners (EBP) to invest in their own supplier diversity strategy, and more than 200 EBPs submit their own direct diversity spend to P&G on a quarterly basis. P&G also invests in building capabilities of small businesses to form a solid pipeline of potential suppliers in the future. For example, we sponsored four Business Development Forums in Singapore, Thailand, Japan and Canada with WeConnect to train women entrepreneurs on key business-building capabilities. Lastly, P&G continues to be a leading voice in the Marketing and Media industry to more accurately portray diversity in front of the camera and improve representation in key creative roles behind the camera. All of this work is to build  a more diverse and inclusive supply chain through which P&G can deliver superior products to our  diverse consumers around the world. Supplier inclusion in our Citizenship work is a clear business imperative because we know that having diverse supplier ecosystems delivers a more resilient supply chain, allowing us to respond to evolving consumer and customer needs. Our work has been recognized by influential organizations in this space  as they awarded P&G:
• America’s Top Corporations, National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) 
• Corporation of the Year, Ohio Minority Supplier Development Council (OMSDC) 
Sustainable Innovation
One way we will reduce our environmental footprint is through external partnerships. For example, we are collaborating with a team of key suppliers to solve our supply chain’s most challenging problems like water stewardship in key water-stressed regions. We partnered with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to develop a three-part webinar series that focused on developing science-based targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction — a topic that we presented to more than 30 suppliers starting on this journey. This was an outcome of our engagement with more than 400 supplier representatives that joined us for a Supplier Citizenship Summit focused on Sustainability in October 2019. They were able to hear from key thoughts leaders at P&G and in the industry to help our partners make progress in our key areas. This level of sharing and alignment is key to driving focus in these areas, allowing for better collaboration and faster progress.
179
Speaking Up
WORLDWIDE BUSINESS CONDUCT HELPLINE  Our employees hold themselves and one 
another accountable for operating with trust and integrity and for stepping up as leaders and owners of the business. We are committed to creating a work environment that fosters open communication and supports employees in reporting potential violations of Company policies or the law. Employees and individuals in our operations or extended supply chain can report violations at the Worldwide Business Conduct Helpline, which is staffed by an independent third party — 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week   — a nd includes, where 
permitted by local law, an anonymous way to report concerns. We are committed to reviewing all allegations of wrongdoing with trained teams who ensure thorough, impartial and fact-based investigations. Proper investigation is essential to promoting a culture of integrity, reducing the likelihood of incidents occurring and increasing willingness to proactively raise concerns. It is an important part of our commitment to prevent and detect wrongdoing. Retaliation for raising concerns in good faith is inconsistent  with our Values of Integrity and Trust  and simply will not be tolerated.
180
Stakeholder Engagement
QUOTES FROM THE EMPLOYEE SURVEY
“ P &G has a very strong set of PVPs 
that align to my personal values.  
We truly care for our employees and  
create a safe working environment.”
“ P VP — Never change them. This 
Company is about doing what’s  right and that is what makes us  proud employees.”
“ W e use our PVPs to guide our 
Company’s direction, decisions,  
and interactions with employees.”We acknowledge that improving transparency, respecting human and labor rights and sourcing responsibly is an enormous challenge, and progress will be made through a journey of collaboration and engagement with our stakeholders. Thus, we seek meaningful collaboration and engagement with our stakeholders as we work to be a good corporate neighbor and to improve lives in the communities where we live and work.
Employees
Every year, we survey all employees globally — from 
plant technicians to our office population — via the P&G Survey. Employee feedback is extremely valuable in assessing what we do well as a Company and where we can improve, and we develop and execute action plans in response. When we compare our results against our external benchmarking group, we find P&G scoring higher than the average of our peer group on the majority of our benchmarking questions — showing that we remain an Employer of Choice versus competition. Every year, the P&G Survey proves how ingrained our Purpose, Values and Principles (PVPs) are in the are in the organization. Continuing to uphold and safeguard our PVPs consistently is the top response to “What should not change about P&G?”Investors
We value our relationships with all of our shareholders. Engagement with shareholders builds mutual understanding and a basis for progress, and the input we receive from them impacts and informs our corporate practices. Senior management, our investor relations team and subject matter experts from the Company maintain a year‐round dialogue with investors to gain their perspectives on current issues and address any questions or concerns, and we make our Directors available for engagement with shareholders when appropriate. The Company’s top 100 institutional shareholders collectively own more than 50% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock, and we generally focus our proactive shareholder outreach efforts on these shareholders. We conduct meetings with institutional shareholders in person, via telephone calls and one‐on‐one at conferences throughout the year. We also routinely respond to individual shareholders and other stakeholders who provide feedback about our business.
181
CONTACT US  
OUR POLITICAL INVOLVEMENT  
TAX PRINCIPLES  Stakeholder Engagement
Consumers
We are committed to providing products and services 
that can help improve the lives of our consumers all over the world. In developing and marketing our products, we adopt a “Consumer Is Boss” approach to ensure that we delight consumers by launching new products and product improvements that genuinely meet their needs. We actively encourage consumers to contact us because we want to hear about our consumers’ experiences with our products. We feel very privileged that consumers care enough about  our products to contact us.
Communities
Each P&G production facility has site-specific activities to build appropriate and constructive relationships with industry associations, residential and business neighbors, action groups, thought leaders, and news media. Depending on the cultures and interests of individual communities, this can range from regular official meetings, during which new information  is shared or questions are answered, to more  informal engagement.Government Authorities: Local, Regional 
and Global 
Guided by our PVPs, P&G appropriately engages in 
the political process to ensure that the interests of our employees, consumers and shareholders are fairly represented at all levels of government around the world. We are committed to being transparent about our political involvement globally, and our policies and procedures on appropriate contact with government officials prohibit bribery and any kind of improper influence.
Our approach to taxes is also based on our PVPs. 
Consistent with the law and international norms, we believe tax should follow business substance and that profits are generated where key business activities take place. We are committed to the highest level of tax compliance. We observe and adhere to the tax laws, the underlying tax policy intent and the disclosure and reporting requirements.
External Business Partners
We work closely with our external business partners to ensure that our products are sourced responsibly. P&G’s Responsible Sourcing Guidelines for External Business Partners set our expectations with our supply base regarding social and environmental responsibility.  We actively seek business relationships with partners who share these values and that promote high standards within their own supply chains.
Non-Governmental Organizations  
(NGOs): Local, Regional and Global
We frequently partner with NGOs that support communities, advance equality and protect the environment. We also enter into dialogue with NGOs to understand their priorities and concerns. Our partnerships with NGOs can vary by area of mutual interest and geography.
Principal Industry and Business 
Associations
We hold membership in many industry and business 
associations whose activities are related to the Company’s. These associations provide a forum for us to promote and defend our interests in the broader industry context, while providing a lawful platform for joint research, issue monitoring and advocacy, and sharing of best practices. Participation in business associations is controlled by Company policy to ensure such industry activities have the right governance and oversight. However, as with many associations, there will be diverse points of view, and we will not agree with positions taken by each association on every issue.RESPONSIBLE SOURCING GUIDELINES  
FOR EXTERNAL BUSINESS PARTNERS  
182
ESG Disclosure Frameworks
Our annual Citizenship Report provides a 
comprehensive overview of our Citizenship efforts, including significant data related to our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) systems. We recognize that some stakeholders prefer to use third-party ESG disclosure frameworks to review corporate ESG performance. To help facilitate that process, this section of our report provides additional perspective on the following  ESG disclosure frameworks:Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD):  Please click the link below to go to a November 
2020 report that was informed by the TCFD guidelines. 
Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB): 
Please click the link below to go our 2020 SASB Matrix which addresses SASB’s key disclosure topics for our industry sector. 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI):  This report 
references GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016. A GRI 
Content Index for this report can be found at the  link below.  
GRI CONTENT INDEX  2020 SASB MATRIX  
TCFD GUIDELINES  
183Data in this report covers the period of July 1, 2019, to June 30, 2020. Financial 
information is given in U.S. dollars. Questions related to this report can be directed to mediateam.im@pg.com . This report references GRI 102: General Disclosures  
2016 and specific disclosures from other GRI Standards as specified in the GRI Content Index for this report which can be found here .Recognitions 
and Awards
Here are just a few of the  
external recognitions we’ve 
re
ceived this year in our  
Citizenship priority areas. 
Equality  
& Inclusion
5 years in a row Since 2001
100TOP
Most  
Sustainable  Companies  
2020Environmental  
Sustainability
U.S. CHAMBER 
OF COMMERCE 
FOUNDATION
Social Responsibility  
in ActionAmong Fast Company’s  
2020 World Changing  
Ideas in CreativityCommunity  
Impact
Logos are property of their respective owners; used with permission.Ranked in Top 20Ethics & Corporate 
Responsibility2021
COMPANIESAMERICA’SMOST