2018 Citizenship Report
Message from the CEO
Dear Stakeholders,
We made significant progress in each area of P&G’s 
Citizenship work in fiscal year 2018, and we continue 
to actively build Citizenship into how we deliver our 
business results. 
Our aspiration is clear. We want to be a force for good 
and a force for growth. We know that the more we 
integrate and build Citizenship into how we do business, 
the bigger the impact we can have on the people we 
serve, the communities where we live and work and the 
broader world that surrounds us. In turn, this helps us 
grow and build our business.
We continue to make positive impact in each area of  
Citizenship: Ethics & Corporate Responsibility, Community 
Impact, Diversity & Inclusion, Gender Equality and 
Environmental Sustainability. Importantly, our efforts in 
these areas support nearly every objective outlined in 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Here are a few highlights from the last fiscal year:
• Along with our NGO relief partners, we helped those 
impacted by disasters around the world. For example, 
we provided more than 2,000 personal care kits and 
washed more than 2,300 loads of laundry to help those 
impacted by hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria. We 
also activated our emergency response efforts to aid 
victims of the earthquake in Mexico and assisted with 
Syrian refugees in France, Germany and Turkey. And 
while this report is on a fiscal year basis, it’s important 
to note that we’re actively involved in relief efforts for 
those affected by recent natural disasters in the U.S. 
and Indonesia.• Our Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program delivered 
more than one billion liters of clean drinking water last 
fiscal year and has provided more than 14 billion liters 
of water to those who need it most since the program 
began in 2004. 
• We increased representation for women, now at 46% 
of all P&G managers globally, and we increased our U.S.  
representation and workplace satisfaction of African 
Ancestry, Hispanic and Asian Pacific American employees.
• We used our voice in advertising to promote important 
conversations about a full range of equality, diversity 
and inclusion topics with the “The Talk,” “Love Over 
Bias” and “The Words Matter.” We sparked important 
conversations to motivate positive change along racial, 
ethnic, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability 
and gender lines.
• And, we established a new road map to drive 
sustainability into how we operate to achieve positive 
impact through our brands, supply chain, society and 
our employees. This includes making all packaging 
recyclable or reusable, strengthening trust with our 
consumers by sharing our safety science across our 
brands, cutting greenhouse gas emissions from our 
manufacturing sites in half and continuing to help 
stem the flow of plastic into the world’s oceans.
This work could not have been accomplished without 
P&G people who come to work every day ready to make 
a difference in the lives of people everywhere and the 
many contributions of our business partners.For more than 180 years, P&G has been touching and 
improving lives. It’s who we are. It’s what we do. And it 
motivates us to do more and be a force for good and a 
force for growth in the world. 
DAVID S. TAYLOR
Chairman of the Board,  
President and Chief Executive Officer
2Message from the CEO 2
Internal Management  4
Issue Prioritization  5
P&G at a Glance 6
A Company of Leading Brands  7
Ethics & Corporate 8 
Responsibility
Message from Debbie Majoras 10
Our Purpose, Values and Principles 11
Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 12
Doing the Right Thing with Our Employees 15
Doing the Right Thing with Our Consumers 18
Doing the Right Thing with Our Supply Chain 20
Speaking Up 23
Stakeholder Engagement  24
Community  26 
Impact
Highlights 27
Message from Marc Pritchard  33
P&G Children’s Safe Drinking 34 
Water Program
Disaster Relief 36
Habitat for Humanity 39
Brand Programs 40
Latin America  42Europe 45
Asia Pacific 51
Greater China  53
India, Middle East and Asia 55
North America 58
Employee Well-Being  60
Awards & Recognitions 64
Diversity  66 
& Inclusion
Highlights 67
Message from William P. Gipson 74
Using Our Voice  75
Making an Impact  77
Changing the Culture  80
Awards & Recognitions  84
Gender  85  
Equality
Highlights 86
Message from Carolyn Tastad 93
Using Our Voice 94
Making an Impact 97
Changing the Culture 99
Gender Equality Partners  101
Awards & Recognitions 102Environmental  103  
Sustainability
Highlights 104
Message from Shailesh Jejurikar 110
Vision and Progress 111
Brand Stories  115
Circular Supply Chains 117
Climate  118
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 119
Renewable Energy  121
Energy Conservation  122
Low-Energy Washing  123
Renewable Materials  125
Packaging  126
Responsible Forestry  128
Palm Oil 132
Water  138
Waste  143
The Power of P&G People 148
Sustainable Innovation with Suppliers 150
Worldwide Health, Safety and  151 
Environment Systems
Awards & Recognitions 155
Environmental Resource and 158 
Waste Summary
Global Measurement and  159 
Additional Operational DataTable of Contents
3Our objective is to create industry-leading value by 
maintaining and enhancing our strong corporate 
reputation through a strong ethics and compliance 
culture that supports conserving resources, protecting 
the environment, improving social conditions, respecting 
human and labor rights, and empowering individuals 
and the communities in which we live, work and serve. 
We start with Ethics & Corporate Responsibility as the 
foundation for the other four priority areas: Community 
Impact, Diversity & Inclusion, Gender Equality and 
Environmental Sustainability. Each of these areas is 
led by an executive sponsor committed to ensuring 
we achieve our specific objectives. The executive 
sponsors of the priority areas come together to form 
the Citizenship Board with the Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Office as the Chair.
Environmental
Sustainability
Executive Sponsor
Global Business 
Unit PresidentGender
Equality
Executive Sponsor
Selling & Market 
Operations PresidentDiversity 
& Inclusion
Executive Sponsor
Chief Human Resource Ofﬁcer,
Chief Diversity OfﬁcerExecutive Sponsor
Chief Brand OfﬁcerCommunity 
Impact
Chair
Chairman of the Board, 
President & Chief Executive OfﬁcerEthics & 
Corporate 
Responsibility
Executive Sponsor
Chief Legal Ofﬁcer
Citizenship
BoardInternal Management
4Issue Prioritization
Last year, we conducted an issue prioritization 
exercise to better understand stakeholder 
views on citizenship issues relevant for 
us. We consulted around 80 stakeholders 
through a combination of on-line surveys 
and interviews. Stakeholders included 
investors, civil society groups, retailers, 
suppliers, industry organizations, experts 
and P&G employees. The results from the 
issue prioritization exercise reinforced our 
strategic focus areas of Ethics & Corporate 
Responsibility, Diversity & Inclusion, Gender 
Equality and Environmental Sustainability. It included the following learnings:
Insight 1  
Governance & Ethical Conduct, Human & Labor 
Rights, Corporate Transparency, and Product Safety & 
Ingredient Transparency were rated as high priorities by 
stakeholders. Our ongoing commitment and efforts in 
these areas are embedded within our entire Citizenship 
report and highlighted in our Ethics & Corporate 
Responsibility section.
Insight 2  
Climate, Water, Waste and Packaging are the current 
major focus areas of our environmental sustainability 
pillar and results of the issue prioritization exercise 
reinforced the importance of these issues for our 
stakeholders. You can read about our current efforts 
throughout the Environmental Sustainability section  
of this year’s report.
Insight 3  
The topics of “Promoting Sustainable Lifestyles” and 
“Sustainable Product Design & Innovation” were also 
important to our stakeholders. Our brands continue to 
play a leading role in driving innovation and engaging 
with our consumers on a wide range of topics. In 
addition, our Ambition 2030 framework, announced 
in April, places an increased emphasis on the role our 
brands can play in driving positive impact. Learn more 
about the four focus areas of our 2030 Ambition Goals.
5P&G At a Glance
Our aspiration is to serve the world’s 
consumers better than our best competitors, 
in every category and every country where 
we choose to compete — creating superior 
shareholder value in the process. We work 
hard every day to make quality products and 
services that improve people’s lives, now and 
for generations to come. 
2018 net sales by 
geographic region
 North America3 44%
 Europe  24%
 Asia Pacific 9%
 Greater China 9%
 Latin America 7%
 India, Middle East & Africa (IMEA) 7%2018 net sales by  
business segment 2
  Beauty  19%
 Grooming  10%
 Health Care 12%
 Fabric & Home Care 32%
 Baby, Feminine & Family Care  27%2018 net sales by  
market maturity
 Developed Markets  65%
 Developing Markets  35%Amounts in billions, except per share amounts 2018
Net Sales $66.8
Operating Income $13.7
Net Earnings Attributable to P&G $9.8
Net Earnings Margin from Continuing Operations 14.8%
Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share from Continuing Operations 1$3.67
Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share 1$3.67
Operating Cash Flow $14.9
Dividends per Common Share $2.79
1 Diluted net earnings per common share are calculated  
based on net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble.
2These results exclude net sales in Corporate. 
3 North America includes the United States, Canada and 
Puerto Rico.
6A Company of Leading Brands
Our portfolio is organized around 10 product categories and about 65 brands. These 10 
category-based business units have historically grown faster with higher margins than the 
balance of the Company. These are categories where P&G has leading market positions and 
where product technologies deliver performance differences that matter to consumers. And 
across all 10 of our categories, we’re focused on meaningful and noticeable superiority in all 
elements of our consumer proposition—products, packaging, brand communication, retail 
execution (in-store and online) and superior value—in each price tier where we compete.
Family Care Fabric Care Home Care Baby Care
Grooming Oral Care Personal Health Care Hair Care Skin & Personal CareFeminine Care
7Ethics & Corporate Responsibility
At P&G, we serve nearly five billion people around the world with our brands. 
We have operations in nearly 70 countries and have one of the strongest 
portfolios of trusted, quality and leadership brands. As we serve the world’s 
consumers, we believe in—and have publicly committed to—doing what’s 
right and being a good corporate citizen. 
8Ethics & Corporate 
Responsibility
9“While the opportunities we seize and the challenges we face are 
ever changing, our Purpose, Values and Principles remain a source 
of strength and advantage to our Company. We are mindful that a 
reputation of trust and integrity is essential to our success and must 
be consistently earned by operating responsibility and ethically. 
Strong governance and compliance practices build that trust, which 
leads to increased value creation for our consumers, customers and 
shareholders.” Message from  
Debbie Majoras
Debbie Majoras  
Chief Legal Officer  
and Secretary
10Our Purpose, Values  
and Principles
Our Purpose, Values and Principles  are the foundation 
of who we are. Our Purpose is to improve consumers’ 
lives in small but meaningful ways, and it inspires P&G 
people to make a positive contribution every day. Our 
Values of Integrity, Leadership, Ownership, Passion for 
Winning and Trust shape how we work with each other 
and with our partners. And our Principles articulate 
P&G’s unique approach to conducting work every day. 
We know that P&G employees believe in the personal 
and business value of this PVP foundation—our PVPs 
are consistently cited in our annual employee survey  
as the top aspect about P&G they would not change. 
Our philosophy is that a reputation of trust and integrity 
is built over time, earned every day and is what sets  
us apart. We operate within the spirit and letter of the law, 
maintaining high ethical standards wherever we 
conduct business. We believe that good governance 
practices contribute to better results for shareholders. 
We maintain governance principles, policies and 
practices that support management accountability. 
These are in the best interest of the Company, our 
shareholders and all stakeholders, and they are 
consistent with the Company’s Purpose, Values  
and Principles. 
11Our Commitment to 
Respect Human Rights
In 2014, P&G published its Human Rights 
Policy Statement  that communicates our 
support for the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights , which are 
drawn from and reinforce the principles of 
internationally recognized human rights 
consisting of: those rights expressed in  
the International Bill of Human Rights   
(i.e., Universal Declaration of Human Rights  
and the International Covenants on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; and 
Civil and Political Rights) and the principles 
concerning fundamental rights as set out in 
the International Labor Organization (ILO) 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work .We recognize that it is the sovereign state’s duty to 
protect against human rights abuses by establishing 
and upholding appropriate laws and policies. We also 
recognize that some states do not have adequate legal 
and regulatory frameworks, enforcement mechanisms 
or have laws that conflict with these internationally 
recognized human rights. Wherever this is the case, 
we will always try to do the right thing by respecting 
human rights consistently across our global operations. 
We expect these same commitments to be shared by 
our business partners, and we strongly encourage our 
business partners to share these same expectations  
with their business partners. Child Labor
We do not permit the exploitation of children and 
do not use child labor in any of our global facilities. 
We take this commitment very seriously. In 2014, we 
learned that children were picking postconsumer 
waste from landfills, which ultimately made its way to 
our upstream corrugate supply chain. Since then, we 
have stayed engaged with our corrugate supply chain 
and used our leverage to enable suppliers to address 
the issue and provide remedy to the children and their 
families. Remedy included, for example, establishing 
schools, enrolling and supporting affected children in 
the schools, launching mobile health clinics, developing 
skilled workshops and compensating parents for loss of 
income. We participated in a panel session at the 2016 
UN Forum on Business and Human Rights to highlight 
how responsible corporate engagement can be a 
strong force for advancing the cause of human rights.
12Our Commitment to 
Respect Human Rights
Forced Labor
P&G supports The Consumer Goods Forum Priority Industry Principles , which 
state: Forced labor is an unacceptable human rights violation that can take multiple 
forms and must be addressed. While certain employment and recruitment practices 
may not initially appear problematic, in aggregate or combined with other forms of 
leverage, they can result in forced labor, particularly among vulnerable workers. We 
will take active measures to apply these Principles across our global value chains and 
our operations, to cases where such practices may lead to forced labor. We will seek to 
apply these Principles to all workers regardless of their employment status, location, 
contractual arrangements or role. 
We do this as part of our collective journey to advance the human rights of workers 
and positively shape global labor markets aspiring that: 
I. Every worker should  
have freedom of movement. 
The ability of workers to move freely 
should not be restricted by their 
employer through abuse, threats and 
practices such as retention of passport 
and valuable possessions. II. No worker should  
pay for a job. 
Fees and costs associated with 
recruitment and employment should be 
paid by the employer, not the employee. III. No worker should be 
indebted or coerced to work. 
Workers should work freely, aware of the 
terms and conditions of their work in 
advance, and paid regularly as agreed.
13Our Commitment to 
Respect Human Rights
Non-Discrimination
P&G is deeply committed to an inclusive culture, and 
P&G does not discriminate against individuals on the 
basis of race, color, gender, age, national origin, religion, 
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital 
status, citizenship, disability, veteran status, HIV/AIDS 
status or any other legally protected factor. For more 
information about our Diversity & Inclusion and Gender 
Equality efforts, visit those sections in the report. 
In June 2017, P&G joined the CEO Action for Diversity 
& Inclusion  to advance diversity and inclusion in the 
workplace and has committed to: continue to cultivate 
workplaces that support open dialogue on complex, 
and sometimes difficult, conversations about diversity 
and inclusion; implement and expand unconscious  
bias education; and share best known—as well as 
unsuccessful—actions.Freedom of Association and 
Collective Bargaining
P&G respects our employees’ right to choose to  
join or not to join a trade union or to have recognized 
employee representation in accordance with local 
law. Where employees are represented by a legally 
recognized union or employee representative, we are 
committed to establishing a constructive dialogue 
regarding the interests of both the employees and 
the business. The Company will bargain in good faith 
with such representatives in accordance with local law. 
Whether the facility is union or non-union, we strive to 
create a high-performing work force—where employees 
are highly engaged, multi-skilled and process owners.We joined CEO Action for 
Diversity & Inclusion to cultivate 
workplaces that advance 
diversity and inclusion and 
support open dialogue.
14Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees 
P&G people bring our values to life as we 
focus on improving consumers’ lives now 
and for generations to come. We recruit, hire 
and retain the best talent from around the 
world, reflecting the diversity of the markets 
and consumers we serve. Developing and 
retaining a diverse workforce provides us 
with a sustained competitive advantage. We 
recognize that a diverse mix of backgrounds, 
skills and experiences drives new ideas, 
products and services. This maximizes our 
ability to achieve our goals together.
Confidence and Trust
At P&G, we strive to promote a work environment 
of confidence and trust. Our Worldwide Business 
Conduct Manual (WBCM)  provides employees with 
clear guidance on specific situations they may face and 
directs them where to go when they have questions or 
concerns. P&G is a recognized leader in providing a safe, 
healthy, secure and productive work environment. We 
are committed to maintaining a workplace that is free 
of violence, harassment, intimidation or other unsafe 
or disruptive behaviors or conditions due to threats 
inside or outside of our facilities. Each employee has a 
personal responsibility to their fellow employees and to 
the Company to follow all Company safety and security 
procedures, as well as applicable laws and regulations.Our “Do the Right Thing” training series enables 
continuous learning for our employees. The all-employee 
general training session is derived from our WBCM 
principles: Respect, Integrity and Stewardship and 
other ethics and compliance topics related to the 
given theme. In addition, we deploy breakout training 
sessions based on organization needs. In 2017, the 
general training session was: “Doing the Right Thing – 
Stewardship at P&G,” and the breakout training sessions 
were focused on information security and sexual 
harassment prevention. 
We also have a library of engaging, custom-built 
training courses, which are available to all employees 
as a resource and are further assigned based on 
role and location to maximize relevance and impact. 
These address conflicts of interest, stopping retaliation, 
opposing bribery and other areas. In 2017, we partnered 
with a renowned behavioral scientist and an award-
winning documentary filmmaker to create a series of 
short films that spotlight clinical research on integrity 
and feature P&G leaders and employees reflecting on 
“doing the right thing.” This miniseries of five episodes 
has been hailed for its cinematic style, the genuine 
and unscripted participation by executive leadership, 
and its candid discussion of human vulnerability to the 
challenges, pressures and unseen psychological factors 
for which we all must be vigilant.
We have an increasing library 
of custom-built training 
courses to teach our WBCM 
principles: Respect, Integrity 
and Stewardship.
15Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees 
Celebrating Our Do  
the Right Thing Culture
Every year, we celebrate our shared Principles, Values 
and Purpose (PVP) foundation with the “Do the Right 
Thing Celebration.” P&G locations around the world create 
their own employee engagement events tied to a global 
theme derived from our Worldwide Business Conduct 
Manual (WBCM) principles of Respect, Integrity and 
Stewardship. Events feature activities and contests to 
engage employees and raise awareness, leadership 
townhall discussions and inspiring videos from 
employees making a difference. Sites are recognized 
for the outstanding results in the areas of creativity, 
engagement and passionate leadership. Though 
P&G sets high standards for all employees, those 
who personally demonstrate commitment to ethics 
and compliance can also be recognized by peers or 
managers with a special “PVP Champion” designation. 
Since its inception in 2016, hundreds of employees  
have been recognized.Employee and Labor Relations 
At P&G, a fundamental principle is “The Interests of the 
Company and its Employees are Inseparable,” which 
provides a foundation for advancing our workforce 
strategy. We believe an engaged and capable workforce 
is critical to the Company’s success. A key strategy to 
winning in the marketplace is to create a highly-skilled, 
agile and flexible workforce that delivers business 
initiatives—better than our competition. We offer an 
expansive array of skill-building programs that allow 
employees to grow their individual skills, leading to 
better business results and career advancement.  
These programs help to ensure a strong and highly-
skilled labor workforce that benefits the Company  
as well as the communities in which we operate. 
We regularly assess employee and labor relations 
through standard Company tools like our Corporate 
Employee Engagement Survey and Compliance & 
Health Assessment Tool. These assessment tools allow 
us to proactively identify and address any individual or 
employee group concerns that may potentially impact 
employee engagement or compliance with local laws  
or regulations. Employees and sites 
are recognized for 
outstanding results in 
creativity, engagement 
and passionate leadership.
Because we value a  
highly-skilled, agile and 
flexible workforce, we offer 
skill-building programs that 
lead to career advancement.
16Family
Other 
BeneF itsFinancial
time away 
FrO m w Orkhealth
& welFare
ViBrant 
liVing
P&G Patterned CirclesBenefits navigator
•	Health	Fair
•	Blood	Donations•	Paid	Parental	Leave
•	Adoption	/	Surrogacy	Assistance
•	Flexible	Spending	Account	–
	Child	/	Dependent	Care 	
•	Perks	at	Work
•	Flexible	Work 	Arrangements
•	Service	Awards
•	Legal	Services
•	Annual	Gift•		Medical	Plans
•	Health	Savings	Accounts
•	Dental	Plan
•	Vision	Plan
•	MyHealth	MyRewards
•	WorkLife	Solutions	 /	EAP
•	Stress	&	Resilience•	Health	Flexible	Spending	
	Arrangement
	–	Dental	/	Vision	/	Medical	Care 	FSA
•		Disability
	–	Short-Term	 /	Long-Term
	–	Optional
•	Life	Insurances
	
•		Bereavement	Leave
•	Paid	Time	Off
	–	Personal
	–	Regular	Vacation	Days
	–	Purchased	Vacation	Days
	–	Company	Holidays•		Military	Leave
•		Personal	Leave 	of	Absence
•		Family	Medical	Leave 	
•	Volunteerism•		Profit	Sharing
•	Pension	Plans
•		Stock	Purchase•		Employee	Initiated	Education	
		Reimbursement
•		Retirement	Readiness	–	The	Basics
•	Financial	Planning
The Benefits Navigator describes the types of benefits that P&G offers to its employees around the 
world. Some of the benefits described in the Benefits Navigator may not be available to all employees 
at all locations. P&G also may offer some benefits not described in the Benefits Navigator to employees 
in some locations.Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees 
Compensation and Benefits
P&G supports paying employees competitive total 
compensation, as benchmarked against other leading 
companies. Consistent with our principle of valuing 
personal contribution and mastery, we provide 
employees the opportunity to develop their skills and 
capabilities to enhance their ability to succeed in their 
career, consistent with the needs of the business. We  
are a recognized leader in employee benefits, which  have been developed to help protect the financial 
security of employees. While offerings are unique to 
each country’s market practices, they might include 
things like comprehensive coverage for health care,  
a competitive pension scheme, vacation and holiday 
time and other work/family balance benefits including 
flextime and less-than-full-time schedules, all subject  
to local requirements. P&G is also committed to recognizing and rewarding 
individual and team performance which reflects behaviors  
consistent with our PVPs and PEAK Performance Factors  
(Lead with Courage, Innovate for Growth, Champion 
Productivity, Execute with Excellence and Bring Out 
Our Best). Recognition helps confirm achievements, 
contributes to feeling valued and encourages employees 
to give their very best. It provides evidence that others 
believe in what we do and that we are doing the right 
things to help P&G succeed. 
Image describes the types 
of benefits that P&G offers 
to its employees around the 
world. Some of the benefits 
described in the Benefits 
Navigator may not be 
available to all employees at 
all locations. P&G also may 
offer some benefits not 
described in the Benefits 
Navigator to employees in 
some locations.Employee-Initiated Education
17Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Consumers 
Since 1837, we’ve built a rich heritage of 
positively impacting consumers’ lives with 
brands that make each day a little better.
Being Safe, Feeling Safe and 
Ingredient Transparency
We care about the quality and safety of the products 
we choose to use in our homes. That’s why we take a 
rigorous approach to ensure product safety, starting 
with ingredient screening and selection. If we cannot 
be certain about the safety of an ingredient, we will not 
use it. Once selected, we define the safe range for every 
ingredient we use with the same scientific process used 
by regulatory agencies around the world (WHO, EU, 
FDA, EPA and others). Then we evaluate ingredients in 
the final product to confirm their actual use is within 
the safe range for people and the environment. Once 
a product is marketed, we monitor how people use 
it and investigate new scientific information. We also 
collaborate with external scientists and regulatory 
agencies to share information and understand new 
safety methods and approaches. These insights help  
us evolve our safety approaches and keep pace with the 
latest data so we can continue to ensure we offer safe 
products for consumers and families everywhere.When it comes to people’s home and family, we 
know they seek more information to help them feel 
safe and to choose what’s best for them. That’s why 
we’re committed to providing information that is clear, 
reliable and accessible—what goes into our products, 
what gets left out and why. Increasingly, we will list 
product ingredients online via brand websites or apps 
like SmartLabel™ (available in the United States and 
Canada). We will also continue to share information 
about ingredients we do not use, and we are committed 
to provide fragrance ingredients (down to 0.01% in 
formula) for products marketed in the U.S. by the end  
of 2019.
We’ve taken a rigorous approach to ensure product 
safety and have made this information publicly available. We take a rigorous approach to 
ensure product safety. If we cannot 
be certain about the safety of an 
ingredient, we will not use it.18
18Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Consumers 
Our Voice in Advertising and Media 
We’ve made a choice to step up and use our voice in 
advertising as a force for good and a force for growth—
by taking a stand on equality. We recognize that P&G 
and our leadership brands can make a meaningful 
impact with our wide reach, as images and portrayals of 
people in advertising embed memories—over and over 
again—which can lead to bias. That’s why as the world’s 
largest advertiser, we’ve committed to use our voice to 
promote equality in three ways: 
• First, we’re dramatically increasing the diversity in  
our everyday advertising. 
• Second, we’re developing products and advertising  
to meet the unique needs of diverse consumers.
• Third, we’re addressing a unique challenge in the 
United States—racial inequality driven by racial bias. Keeping Privacy and Security 
Strong—Protecting Personal 
Information 
Our stakeholders—whether consumers, employees, 
shareholders or vendors—trust that we will ensure 
that appropriate privacy and information security 
controls will be in place to safeguard critical business 
and personal information and that operations are 
maintained with due confidentiality, appropriate 
integrity and are available when needed. Our Global 
Consumer Privacy Policy says that we respect personal 
information and take steps to protect it from loss, misuse 
or alteration and, where appropriate, these steps can 
include technical measures like firewalls, intrusion 
detection and prevention systems, unique and complex 
passwords and encryption. We also use organizational 
and physical measures such as training staff on data  
processing obligations, identifying data incidents and 
risks, restricting staff access to personal information 
and ensuring physical security including appropriately 
securing documents when not being used. We are also 
committed to having an information security program 
that provides appropriate levels of protection for the 
types of data we hold.We work with experts 
around the world to address 
evolving consumer and 
employee policies and risks.
19Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Supply Chain 
Our supply chains are the backbone of our 
products, and we are making intentional 
choices to leverage the footprint of our 
suppliers, buyers and manufacturing sites 
to be a driver for good. From transparent 
sourcing practices that aid consumer decision-  
making to growing shareholder value through 
innovation-driving programs like global 
supplier diversity, P&G is proud to be a leader 
in supply chain responsibility. This work is 
built on three pillars: Responsible Sourcing, 
Supplier Diversity and Sustainable Innovation, 
all managed by a dedicated Supplier 
Citizenship team in Purchases.
Our External Business Partner Guidelines establish  
clear expectations of our direct business partners, 
including an expectation to respect internationally 
recognized human rights, comply with all applicable 
laws and conduct their business ethically and responsibly. 
We will not knowingly condone or contribute to adverse 
human rights impacts caused by the actions of our 
business partners. When we become aware of an 
adverse impact, we will engage to be part of the solution 
to address the issue or dilemma, including seeking 
to prevent or mitigate the adverse impact. We also 
support our business partners in providing remedy  
to the affected individuals.Since 2010, P&G has tracked the performance and 
improvement of key partner-related environmental 
measures via the Supply Chain Environmental 
Sustainability Scorecard. In 2017, we launched our 
inaugural Supplier Citizenship Scorecard, which builds 
on the strong legacy of the Environmental Sustainability 
Scorecard and incorporates all five focus areas of P&G’s 
Corporate Citizenship Strategy: Ethics & Corporate 
Responsibility, Community Impact, Diversity & Inclusion, 
Gender Equality and Environmental Sustainability. 
Developing this new Scorecard allowed us to leverage 
a more holistic approach to understanding Citizenship 
efforts in our supplier ecosystem that could allow 
strategic collaboration while equipping our external 
business partners with resources that they can use to 
advance their own Citizenship efforts so that we may  
all be a force for good and a force for growth. 
More than 120 of our strategic partners completed the 
scorecard, and the results were invaluable. Our partners 
confirmed that they are actively engaged in their 
communities, with 87% of them having well-established 
initiatives such as supporting children’s health and  
education, empowering women economically, protecting 
the environment, fighting against hunger and poverty 
and many others. More than 75% of our partners have a 
documented responsible sourcing plan or are working 
toward developing one, and more than 60% have 
programs to recycle, reduce and reuse potential  
waste materials. Our Supplier Citizenship  
Scorecard tracks performance  
and improvement of key partner-
related citizenship measures.
20Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Supply Chain 
Responsible Sourcing
Responsible Sourcing is a critical pillar in our  
Citizenship program, and one that every P&G buyer 
touches through his or her work to drive environmental 
sustainability and human and social rights. Our vision 
is to be the company with the most responsible, ethical 
and transparent supply chain. We are continually 
assessing risks in our supply chain and driving clarity 
and resolution if needed. This is part of our desire to 
be a force for good. We execute this vision by focusing 
across the global business, with greater emphasis on 
high-risk countries and spend areas. Our partnerships 
with key NGOs and suppliers ensure we are focusing 
on the most critical areas. This external input was 
strengthened by our mapping of our salient issues,  
and we now have developed strategies to reduce risk 
and protect our environment and people who work  
in the supply chains.We empower responsible supply chains through  
a supplier education and audit system. Our risk-based 
program supports this effort by assessing partners 
through third-party audits that identify and remediate 
issues with labor standards, health and safety concerns, 
environmental issues and business ethics. To date, we 
have completed two waves of social audits with more 
than 400 suppliers, with a third wave already underway. 
We screen new vendors through a robust third-party 
risk management process to identify and remediate  
top risks before hiring. In these and other efforts,  
we build a robust system of business partners that is 
fully integrated and synchronized with P&G’s business 
and values.
We assess and screen 
partners and new vendors 
through a robust third-party 
risk management process to 
identify and remediate top 
risks before and after hiring.
21Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Supply Chain 
Supplier Diversity 
We are committed to growing and developing our 
business with diverse suppliers because we believe 
that a diverse group of business partners will out-
innovate and out-perform a non-diverse group of 
business partners. Supplier Diversity is P&G’s program 
to grow and develop supply-side business: globally 
with women-owned business, and in the United 
States with minority-owned; Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, 
and Transgender-owned; disability-owned; and U.S. 
Military Veteran-owned businesses. Supplier Diversity 
is predicated on creating value in our business and 
value in our community. When we invest with diverse 
suppliers, we not only strengthen our innovation and 
go-to-market capabilities but also touch and improve 
the lives of the women and men who work in these 
companies—and through them, their families and the 
communities in which they live and work.
Supplier Diversity is a competitive advantage for P&G. 
Since we launched this program four decades ago, we 
have developed economic inclusion for all business 
owners while delivering Total Shareholder Return in 
qualitative and quantitative ways.
• Diverse suppliers outperform non-diverse suppliers 
in our formal Supplier Performance Development 
Process surveys.
• Our diverse supply base delivers above-average  
results in key metrics like hiring diverse employees  
and engaging in community impact activities.• Our strong Supplier Diversity program delivers  
value to P&G’s key retail customers who support  
and encourage diverse supplier inclusion.
• The adversity that diverse suppliers often face results 
in their ability to drive step-change innovation, and 
some of our most innovative programs have been 
driven by our diverse suppliers.
• P&G’s diverse consumer base is increasing buying 
power at a rate that is disproportionate to its population 
growth; diverse consumers are loyal to P&G brands and 
are committed to continuing to purchase products 
from companies like P&G that support diversity in  
the supply chain. 
Principally, we believe in the power of economic 
inclusion. When the ownership of our supply base 
reflects the diversity of our employees, consumers  
and stakeholders, our business grows and our 
communities thrive. Sustainable Innovation
We aim to reduce our environmental footprint  
through partnership with our external partners. We 
have connected a team of key suppliers to collaborate 
with us to solve our supply chain’s most challenging 
problems, driving innovation that is sustainable for both 
the business and the planet. We are developing unique 
plans to optimize our supply chains that drive improved 
circularity in water, waste and/or climate. This is linked  
to P&G’s Ambition 2030 strategy that reinforces how  
we will continue to be a force for good and a force  
for growth.We seek to grow and 
develop relationships 
with diverse suppliers 
that will then create 
value in our communities. 
22Speaking Up
Our employees hold themselves and one another 
accountable for operating with trust and integrity, for 
stepping up as leaders and owners of the business and 
for balancing stewardship with a passion to win. We 
are committed to creating a work environment that 
fosters open communication and supports employees 
in reporting potential violations. Employees and 
individuals in our operations or extended supply chain 
can report violations of the law or Company policies at 
the Worldwide Business Conduct Helpline , which is 
staffed by an independent third party 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week and includes, where permitted by 
local law, an anonymous way to report concerns. P&G is 
committed to reviewing all allegations of wrongdoing 
with trained teams who ensure thorough, impartial 
and fact-based investigations. Proper investigation is 
essential to promoting a culture of integrity, reducing 
the likelihood of incidents occurring and increasing 
willingness to proactively raise concerns. It is an 
important part of our commitment to prevent and 
detect wrongdoing. Retaliation for raising concerns in 
good faith is inconsistent with our Values of Integrity 
and Trust and simply will not be tolerated. 
Employees and 
individuals within our 
extended supply chain 
and operations are 
encouraged to speak  
up and report concerns.
23Stakeholder Engagement
We acknowledge that improving 
transparency, respecting human and  
labor rights and sourcing responsibly is  
an enormous challenge, and progress will  
be made through a journey of collaboration  
and engagement with our stakeholders.  
Thus, we seek meaningful collaboration  
and engagement with our stakeholders  
to be a good corporate neighbor and to 
improve lives in the communities where  
we live and work.
Employees
Every year, we survey all employees globally—from 
plant technicians to our office population—via the P&G 
Survey. Almost 80% of employees make their opinion 
count by responding to the survey, and their feedback 
is extremely valuable in assessing what we do well as a 
Company and where we can improve, and action plans 
are put in place. We also compare our results against 
our external benchmarking group and find P&G scoring 
higher than the average of our peer group on the 
majority of our benchmarking questions—showing that 
we remain an Employer of Choice versus competition. 
Every year, the P&G Survey proves how ingrained our 
PVPs are in the organization. Continuing to uphold and 
safeguard our PVPs consistently is the top response to 
“What should not change about P&G?” Quotes from the Employee Survey:
“Our PVPs and our employees are a bedrock 
foundation for the Company. At P&G, this 
is so deeply ingrained in our DNA that we 
often don’t recognize it.” 
“David has hit the nail on the head about 
straight talk, personal accountability and 
raising the bar.”
“Our PVP. I love that we still care about this 
and we always have the PVPs to count on  
to guide our choices.”Investors
We value our relationships with all our shareholders. 
Engagement with shareholders builds mutual 
understanding and a basis for progress, and the 
input we receive from them significantly impacts our 
corporate governance practices. Senior management, 
our investor relations team and subject matter experts 
from the Company maintain a year‐round dialogue 
with investors to gain their perspectives on current 
issues and address any questions or concerns, and 
we make our directors available for engagement with 
shareholders when appropriate. The Company’s top 
100 institutional shareholders collectively own nearly 
50% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common 
stock, and we generally focus our proactive shareholder 
outreach efforts on these shareholders. We conduct 
meetings with institutional shareholders in person, 
via telephone calls and one‐on‐one at conferences 
throughout the year. We also routinely respond to 
individual shareholders and other stakeholders who 
provide feedback about our business.
Our annual global survey helps 
us assess what we do well, 
where we can improve and  
what should not change.
24Stakeholder Engagement
Consumers
We are committed to providing products and services 
that can help improve the lives of our consumers all over 
the world. In developing and marketing our products, 
we adopt a “Consumer Is Boss” approach to ensure that 
we delight consumers by launching only new products 
and product improvements that genuinely meet their 
needs. We actively encourage consumers to contact 
us because we want to hear about our consumers’ 
experiences with our products. We feel very privileged 
that consumers care enough about our products to 
contact us. 
Communities
Each P&G production facility has site-specific activities 
to build appropriate and constructive relationships with  
industry associations, residential and business neighbors, 
action groups, thought leaders and news media. 
Depending on the cultures and interests of individual 
communities, this can range from regular official 
meetings, during which new information is shared or 
questions are answered, to more informal meetings.External Business Partners
We work closely with our external business partners to 
ensure that our products are sourced responsibly. P&G’s 
Sustainability Guidelines for External Business Partners 
set our expectations with our supply base regarding 
Social and Environmental Responsibility. We actively 
seek business relationships with partners that share 
these values and that promote high standards within 
their own supply chains.
Authorities: Local – Regional – Global
We are focused on meeting consumer needs in the 
countries where we do business, while creating value for 
our shareholders and continuing to be good corporate 
citizens. Guided by our PVPs, we appropriately engage 
in the political process to ensure that the interests of 
our employees, consumers and shareholders are fairly 
represented at all levels of government around the 
world. We are committed to being transparent about 
our political involvement globally, and our policies and 
procedures on appropriate contact with government 
officials prohibit bribery and any kind of improper 
influence.P&G’s approach to taxes is also based on our PVPs. 
Consistent with the law and international norms, we 
believe tax should follow business substance and that 
profits are generated where key business activities  
take place. We are committed to the highest level of  
tax compliance. In doing so, we observe and adhere  
to the tax law, the underlying tax policy intent, and  
the disclosure and reporting requirements. 
Non-Governmental Organizations 
(NGOs): Local – Regional – Global
P&G frequently enters into dialogue with NGOs to 
understand their concerns and cares. NGOs and our 
engagement with an NGO can vary by area of interest 
(e.g., environmental, consumer, human rights) and by 
geographic links (from local to global).
Principal Industry and Business 
Associations
We hold membership in many industry and  
business associations whose activities are related to 
the Company’s. These associations provide a forum for 
us to promote and defend our interests in the broader 
industry context while providing a lawful platform for 
joint research, issue monitoring and sharing of best 
practices. Participation in business associations is 
controlled by Company policy to ensure such industry 
activities have the right governance and oversight. Our facilities engage with 
surrounding authorities, 
leaders, associations, 
residential and business 
neighbors and media.P&G is involved in the 
political process globally 
for the interests of our 
employees, consumers  
and shareholders.
25Community Impact
Our brands touch the lives of nearly five billion people, and we are there when our products 
matter more than ever. We provide the comforts of home in times of disaster and bring the 
power of clean water to people who need it most. We focus where we can uniquely bring 
value and where our brands and people can make the biggest difference. Here are some of 
the heartwarming stories from this year. 
26HIGHLIGHTS
P&G Children’s Safe  
Drinking Water Program
P&G is a company founded on cleaning expertise and 
innovation. We provide products that help people 
clean their clothes, floors, hair, teeth and babies. So 
when one of our scientists discovered a way to clean 
dirty water and make it drinkable, an idea was born 
to help those nearly billion people who struggle with 
finding clean drinking water every day. We launched 
our Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program in 2004 
and have worked with more than 150 partners around 
the world to provide more than 14 billion liters of 
water to those who need it most. This simple-to-use 
technology has been transformative for communities 
around the world — keeping children and their families 
healthy, able to pursue their educational dreams and 
helping to provide economic opportunities for so many 
people with just a bucket, a stick, a cloth and a P&G 
Purifier of Water packet. This is improving everyday 
life at its core. To celebrate World Water Day 2018, we 
partnered with National Geographic to tell the stories 
of Mary in Kenya, Veronika in Indonesia and Antonia in 
Mexico, and the power of clean water to their families.
Since 2004, we have 
provided more than 
14 billion liters of clean 
drinking water. 
27HIGHLIGHTS
16 Years of Making  
a Difference
In the UK, P&G has a long-standing partnership with In 
Kind Direct. Founded in 1996 by His Royal Highness, The 
Prince of Wales, In Kind Direct is the leading UK charity 
dedicated to distributing donated consumer products 
from manufacturers and retailers to UK charities working 
at home and abroad. Since 2002, P&G has donated more  
than $50 million worth of products which have benefited 
more than 5,800 charitable organizations and was 
awarded with a special recognition for ‘Greatest Volume 
of Products Donated’ by the charity in 2017.
Since 2002, P&G has 
donated $50 million worth 
of products in partnership 
with In Kind Direct.
28HIGHLIGHTS
Hurricane Help
The southern U.S. and Caribbean were hit hard during 
the 2017 hurricane season when hurricanes Harvey, 
Irma and Maria brought widespread devastation to 
Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and multiple countries in 
the Caribbean. Communities suffered tremendous 
damage, and people were without basic comforts 
for extended periods of time. It’s in times like these 
where our products can mean the most. P&G, along 
with our partner Matthew 25: Ministries, deployed our 
relief efforts to multiple states in the U.S. and delivered 
more than 2,000 personal care and cleaning product 
kits providing everyday essentials like Crest toothpaste, 
Charmin toilet paper, Gillette razors, Secret deodorant 
and Pampers diapers. The team also washed and dried 
more than 2,300 loads of laundry through the Tide Loads 
of Hope program. Similar programs were deployed in 
Puerto Rico, and P&G supported broader emergency 
relief efforts throughout the Caribbean in partnership 
with organizations including Americares, International 
Medical Corps, GlobalMedic and Save the Children. 
We delivered basic comforts to those 
in need with more than 2,000 disaster 
relief kits filled with P&G products. 
29HIGHLIGHTS
Helping Close to Home
In 1915, P&G helped establish the Cincinnati Community 
Chest, which today is known as the United Way of Greater 
Cincinnati (UWGC). UWGC impacts the lives of people in 
10 counties across Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. The  
annual P&G United Way campaign provides support to  
reach bold goals like preparing children for kindergarten, 
helping families achieve financial stability and ensuring 
people lead healthy, quality lives with maximum 
independence. This year, P&G employees, shareholders 
and retirees donated $9.7 million to the organization’s 
annual campaign. 
We donated $9.7 million 
to the UWGC’s annual 
campaign, helping those 
in our Greater Cincinnati 
headquarters community.
30HIGHLIGHTS
Not Your Average House
In Costa Rica, 564 tons of plastic waste is thrown away 
every day, and only 14 of those tons are recycled — the 
rest ends up in landfills or in our environment. Working 
with Habitat for Humanity, we are taking that waste and 
turning it into homes. Through innovative technology 
that enables a new method of construction based on 
recycled plastic blocks, we are building homes that are 
fireproof, anti-seismic, water and humidity proof and 
require no maintenance. More than 200 volunteers 
helped build homes for two single moms — Rocio and  
Cindy — and their families. Each of these homes uses  
about seven tons of recycled plastic, and the construction 
system has been approved by the highest-ranking 
institute for building construction in Costa Rica.
We’re building homes with 
Habitat for Humanity that use 
about seven tons of recycled 
plastic each. More than 200 P&G 
volunteers helped build 
homes out of recycled 
plastic blocks for two  
single moms in Costa Rica.
31Community  
Impact
32Message from  
Marc Pritchard
Marc Pritchard  
Chief Brand Officer“P&G has a long history of giving back to communities where  
we live and work. It’s foundational to who we are as a Company. 
It starts with our brands, which make life a little better every day. 
And in times of need and crisis, our brands can have even greater 
impact. Through disaster relief, providing clean drinking water and 
other global and local programs, we provide support where our 
brands and our people are needed most.
We invest in people and communities around the world because  
it’s the right thing to do and because our brands and our Company 
are well-positioned to help. We also know that when communities 
are strong and thriving, businesses can grow. Our community 
impact programs are a force for good and a force for growth.”
33Nearly a billion people live without access to clean 
drinking water and as a company founded on cleaning 
expertise, we’ve stepped up to do something about it. In 
2004, we introduced the Children’s Safe Drinking Water 
Program and since then, with the help of our more than 
150 partners around the world, we’ve delivered more 
than 14 billion liters of water to those who need it 
most. With just a bucket, cloth, spoon and our Purifier 
of Water packet, we can help transform lives.
Each 4-gram packet has the power to clean 10 liters of 
water in just 30 minutes and packs the power of a water 
treatment facility into a tiny packet. Having clean water 
enables health, education and economic opportunity, 
and we are well on our way to meeting our goal of 15 
billion liters by 2020. 
This year, we partnered with National Geographic and 
created a documentary that tells the transformational 
story of three women who were introduced to the P&G 
Purifier of Water packets. You can view the 2-minute 
trailer by clicking the link below. These videos were 
made possible through the help of our partners CARE, 
ChildFund and World Vision.“In some parts of the world, we take for 
granted the availability of clean water. People 
in countries like Mexico, Indonesia and Kenya 
struggle with finding clean water to drink. 
And without clean drinking water, it’s much 
harder to keep their children healthy, have 
them get an education and provide a better 
life for their families. Our goal in partnering 
with National Geographic is to share these 
stories about the power of clean water and 
to inspire others to make a difference and 
become a part of the solution.”
– Marc Pritchard, Chief Brand Officer and 
Community Impact Executive Sponsor
P&G Children’s Safe  
Drinking Water Program
Each 4-gram packet has the 
power to clean 10 liters of water 
in just 30 minutes.
34In the last 25 years, 2.6 billion 
people have gained access to clean 
water but there are still 844 million 
people yet to reach.P&G Children's Safe  
Drinking Water Program
Our Family Care organization works with a 
strategic supplier, Fibria. Unfortunately, some 
Fibria employees live in a place where there 
is no access to clean water. So we partnered 
with Fibria and provided clean drinking 
water to their employees who live in these 
communities, bringing clean water to those 
who are part of our own supply chain.
To help bring awareness to the water crisis, we 
conducted a survey in February. Survey findings  
show that most U.S. consumers are concerned about 
the safety of their drinking water, but do not know that 
approximately 1 in 10 people around the world lack 
access to clean drinking water. Survey findings further 
highlighted that Americans are largely unaware of the 
progress that has been made to date to address the 
global water crisis. 
Nearly 70 percent of respondents believe that the 
crisis has stayed the same or gotten worse, with almost 
one in four saying that the problem has become much 
worse. In reality, the global effort to solve the crisis is 
making progress. In the last 25 years, 2.6 billion people 
have gained access to clean water but there are still 844 
million people yet to reach by 2030 to achieve United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goal #6.Working with more than 150 valued partners, P&G is 
providing more than one billion liters of clean drinking 
water every year and continues to play a part to help 
end the global water crisis.
To view the infographics with the survey data,  
click below.
Having clean water enables health, 
education and economic opportunity.
35Disaster Relief
P&G provided product donations and services in 
response to more than 25 disasters globally, helping 
millions affected by natural and humanitarian disasters, 
working in collaboration with numerous disaster relief 
partner organizations. These efforts were powered 
by brands such as Always, Gillette, Oral-B, Mr. Clean, 
Pantene, Tide, Vicks and others, and tens of thousands 
of products have been donated to those in need around 
the world. We have also provided more than $1 million 
in monetary grants to partner organizations like the 
American Red Cross, Americares, CARE, Direct Relief, 
GlobalMedic, Save the Children and World Vision to 
support immediate and ongoing response efforts. 
Globally, P&G responded to multiple disasters including 
the 7.1-magnitude earthquake which hit Mexico City, 
Morelos and Puebla states in September 2017. P&G 
Mexico activated their emergency response efforts 
including provision of products, P&G Purifier of Water  
and other donations in collaboration with NGO partners 
United Way Mexico, the Mexican Red Cross and CADENA. 
Other global responses included the Chennai floods in 
India, the 6.5 magnitude earthquake in China’s Sichuan 
province, Mt. Agung volcano eruption in Indonesia  
and support of Syrian refugees in France, Germany  
and Turkey. Resilience in the Face of Heartbreak
Harvey  
In September 2017, a powerful category 4 hurricane 
made landfall near the coastal town of Rockport, TX.  
The devastation left behind from the storm was vast 
and overwhelming—cars crushed by uprooted trees, 
houses flipped over, telephone poles snapped like 
twigs and debris spread across the city. Schools and 
businesses alike were forced to close for an extensive 
period due to the level of damage.
The P&G Mobile Relief program, alongside our disaster 
relief partner Matthew 25: Ministries, arrived in Rockport 
and witnessed the tremendous need firsthand as 
residents began the difficult process of salvaging 
possessions and rebuilding their lives. One couple,  
after losing their house and everything that they  
owned, planned to take their trailer on the road  
to help others affected by disasters. Community 
members banded together to set up food stations  
and others spent the morning cleaning up senior 
centers before returning to clean up their own homes.
It's in this spirit that P&G is proud to support 
communities like Rockport by providing everyday 
essential products from brands like Always, Bounty, 
Charmin, Crest, Gillette, Ivory, Mr. Clean, Oral-B, Pantene, 
Pampers and Secret in addition to providing clean 
clothes washed with care through the Tide Loads of  
Hope program.
Our response to these 
disasters included $1 million 
in monetary grants to 
partner organizations.
36Disaster Relief
Irma  
Not long after Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma struck 
the Caribbean and Florida. We again deployed our 
support efforts and in addition to Rockport, TX, the 
Mobile Relief team distributed P&G products in 14 cities. 
The U.S. deployment to support those impacted by 
hurricanes Harvey and Irma was one of the largest P&G 
mobile disaster relief efforts to date. 
Maria  
Hurricane Maria was a powerful Category 5 storm, 
causing catastrophic damage to several islands in 
the Caribbean and striking Puerto Rico as a powerful 
Category 4 storm, already heavily damaged by Hurricane 
Irma. P&G employees in Puerto Rico showed amazing 
resilience while coping with their own personal recovery 
and lack of electricity. They worked tirelessly to not only 
restore full operations in 60 days, but to support their 
own community with free services like the Beauty & 
Grooming brand mobile relief unit “Nuestra Belleza 
Prevalece” (“Our Beauty Prevails”) and “Ace Viste a 
Puerto Rico de Esperanza” (“Ace Dresses Puerto Rico 
with Hope”), a mobile laundry unit. More broadly, 
P&G provided immediate grant support to multiple 
organizations, including Americares, International 
Medical Corps and GlobalMedic. To meet the critical 
need for clean drinking water, we worked with the U.S. 
Government, UN agencies, universities and NGOs to 
provide P&G Purifier of Water packets. P&Gers Respond When Disaster  
Hits Close to Home
In the last few months of 2017, California experienced 
some of the worst wildfires in history. In October,  
in Northern California, a series of 250 wildfires broke  
out, 21 of which became major fires that burned  
more than 245,000 acres. In December, a series of  
29 wildfires ignited across Southern California and  
led to widespread evacuations and property losses. 
The wildfires burned more than 307,900 acres causing 
traffic disruptions, school closures and hazardous air 
conditions, and forced more than 230,000 people to 
evacuate. The P&G Mobile Relief team, powered by 
Matthew 25: Ministries, helped respond with provision 
of products and Tide Loads of Hope. P&G also provided 
an emergency grant to Direct Relief, a local disaster 
relief partner. 
The Southern California fires also hit close to home, 
directly impacting the P&G Oxnard plant and its 
employees, forcing more than 50 to evacuate their 
homes, with three losing their homes in the fire.  
Despite intermittent power outages and reduced 
staff, plant management and employees worked to 
ensure that the plant continued to operate. In addition, 
employees came together and organized efforts to 
help one of their own sift through the burned remains 
to salvage precious items. They helped assist with local 
efforts by picking up products and delivering them 
to the Salvation Army and fire companies in the area. 
These are true examples of P&Gers performing at their 
best during a very difficult time to make a difference  
in the lives of others.
37Disaster Relief
Partnering to Help
Matthew 25: Ministries is an international humanitarian 
aid and disaster relief organization founded in 1991. 
P&G began donating small amounts of extra product  
to Matthew 25 in 2004 — now, Matthew 25: Ministries  
is one of our largest corporate product donation 
partners. In 2017, P&G donated 1.9 million pounds of 
products which were distributed by Matthew 25 to 
multiple destinations within the U.S. as well more  
than 25 countries around the world. 
In 2012, P&G also began partnering with Matthew 25  
on a mobile disaster relief program positioning P&G 
personal and home care product kits in advance of 
natural disasters. Kits are packed by P&G employees 
and community volunteers and then distributed by 
Matthew 25’s Disaster Response Team following mid- 
and large-scale disasters in the U.S. and internationally. 
P&G brands represented in disaster kits include Always, 
Bounty, Charmin, Crest, Dawn, Febreze, Gillette, Head & 
Shoulders, Ivory, Mr. Clean, Old Spice, Oral-B, Pampers, 
Pantene, Secret, Swiffer, Tampax, Tide and  Venus. Since 2012, P&G and Matthew 25 have partnered 
on more than 50 deployments in response to hurricanes, 
 tornadoes, storms, earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding,  
droughts and wildfires across the U.S. and internationally,  
helping millions of people coping with the aftermath of 
a catastrophic disaster.
In 2015, the program expanded to include the Tide Loads  
of Hope Mobile Laundry Unit. The Tide Loads of Hope 
Mobile Laundry Unit is designed to be an agile part of 
Matthew 25’s disaster response fleet, providing laundry 
services to emergencies, disasters and similar crisis 
events. Since its beginning in 2005 following Hurricane 
Katrina, Tide Loads of Hope has washed more than 
68,000 loads of laundry for more than 50,000 families 
impacted by disasters across the U.S. and Canada.
In 2017, we donated 1.9 million 
pounds of products which were 
distributed by Matthew 25: 
Ministries to destinations in  
the U.S. and around the world.
38Habitat for Humanity
P&G understands that improving lives  
starts at home. Our partnership with Habitat 
for Humanity shows our commitment to 
improving homes and communities where 
we live and work. Over the past year, P&G  
and Habitat for Humanity worked side-
by-side on projects in 17 countries in Asia, 
Europe, Middle East, Africa, Latin America 
and North America. Through our partnership 
with Habitat for Humanity, P&G employees 
volunteered more than 4,000 hours to build 
or repair homes, or complete neighborhood 
revitalization projects. Throughout the world, 
the goal was the same: help families realize 
their dreams of homeownership or improve 
the places they already call home. This year, some activities included: 
Singapore  
P&G employees cleaned and repaired the homes of 
elderly and disabled people and helped to transform 
communities into vibrant and safer places to live. 
Europe  
Employees helped to restore a refuge facility for women 
and children escaping abusive relationships in London. 
The project helped sixteen families on their journey  
of recovery. There were also activities in Romania, 
Poland and Hungary in addition to the expansion  
of the partnership in the UK.
Latin America  
P&G employees volunteered to complete various home 
and community improvement projects that included 
improving local school buildings and repairing homes 
and community building affected by natural disasters. 
Also, P&G’s commitment contributed for constructing 
wood stoves in homes of families in need to help them 
prepare meals and provide heat in the winter.
North America  
A Cincinnati P&G team volunteered to help build a 
home and teams from P&G Canada helped build homes 
in the Greater Toronto Area.P&G employees 
volunteered more than 
4,000 hours to build 
or repair homes or 
complete neighborhood 
revitalization projects.
39Brand Programs
Tide Loads of Hope
Tide Loads of Hope provides mobile laundry units and 
laundry services to help families impacted by disaster. 
This year, the program cleaned more than 3,800 loads 
of laundry, helping more than 1,700 families during  
five deployments.“We have no electricity. It’s hard at night; 
it’s scary. You look out and it looks like 
everything is dead; the town is dead. You 
have hope for the morning and when you 
wake up and see the light and give thanks 
that you made it to the morning. And we go 
on. The guys and girls from Tide are amazing. 
It is just a blessing to be able to do this 
because clean clothes lift our spirits, it tells 
us that everything is going to be OK. You 
are revitalized; you feel better; all around you 
feel better. We are going to survive, we are 
survivors…This Loads of Hope, it gives hope.  
It really does!” 
– Jenny, Hurricane Harvey flood victimSafeguard
2017 marked the 10th anniversary of Global 
Handwashing Day, and we believe it is the social 
responsibility of Safeguard to help children have a 
healthy future. Safeguard promotes the correct hand-
washing habits to Chinese families through an annual 
Global Handwashing Day campaign. So far, Safeguard 
has carried out the school health educational program 
nationwide, providing hygiene educational courses  
in 25 provinces for more than 22 million primary  
school students. We cleaned more than 3,800 
loads of laundry, helping more 
than 1,700 families during five 
deployments.
Safeguard provided 
hygiene education 
courses in 25 provinces 
of China for more than 
22 million students.
40Pampers Preemies
Pampers has been dedicated to the happy, healthy 
development of babies since our very first diaper more 
than 50 years ago. When nurses asked us to design a 
diaper for babies as tiny as 800 grams, the people at 
Pampers were inspired to create our best diaper yet for 
the most vulnerable babies. Other available premature 
diapers do not conform to a premature baby’s shape 
and proper positioning for optimal development.  
New Pampers Preemie Size P-3 diapers are designed  
to minimize disruption to help with sleep, positioning 
and medical care for premature infants. 
Pampers in Argentina was recognized on Preemie  
Day for supporting pregnant and new moms with  
the Pampers Newborn national program in more  
than 200 hospitals.
In South Africa we donated more than 1,408,000  
preemie diapers to public hospitals and trusts that  
care for premature babies.
Pampers UNICEF
Pampers has partnered with UNICEF since 2006 and, 
through the “1 pack = 1 life-saving vaccine” program, 
Pampers has helped UNICEF eliminate maternal and  
newborn tetanus (MNT) in 24 countries. Nearly 53 million  
women are still at risk from this fatal but preventable 
disease. Our goal is to work with UNICEF in their efforts 
to eliminate MNT in EVERY country by 2020.Dawn Ducks
This year, Dawn marked the 40th anniversary of its 
legacy wildlife campaign by hosting a ground-breaking 
celebration to spotlight and honor the impressive 
number of birds and marine mammals the brand  
has helped wildlife organizations save, protect and 
rehabilitate throughout the past four decades.  
To celebrate helping save wildlife, Dawn, wildlife  
activist and actress Kate Mara, wildlife veterinarian  
Dr. Evan Antin, International Bird Rescue and The 
Marine Mammal Center rescue workers shared the 
magnitude of helping clean and rehabilitate more  
than 75,000 birds. In addition, because of Dawn’s 
concentrated product, less plastic is used in packaging 
and more can be shipped in less space, reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions.Brand Programs
P&G Pampers Preemie 
Size P-3 diapers help 
premature infants in their 
development.
41Latin America
Children's Safe Drinking Water
P&G Children’s Safe Drinking Water (CSDW) Program 
continues to make a meaningful difference by providing 
clean water to communities in rural areas and during 
emergency situations in Latin America. When families 
are forced to drink water from contaminated sources, 
the impact to daily life is significant. Health suffers, 
children miss school and families struggle to earn stable  
incomes. Working with more than 20 regional partners 
in Mexico, Brazil, Panama, Costa Rica, Venezuela, 
Colombia, Peru, Chile and Argentina, among other 
countries, we are contributing to the worldwide effort to 
achieve UN Sustainable Development Goal #6—clean 
water and sanitation for all. Coming Together After Mexican 
Earthquakes
On September 7 and 19, 2017, Mexico was struck by  
two earthquakes affecting six states in the country.  
The Mexico earthquakes damaged more than 170,000 
homes from which almost 60,000 were devastated. 
P&G partnered with CADENA, United Way Mexico and 
Red Cross to support families in Mexico City, Estado 
de México, Morelos, Puebla, Oaxaca, Guerrero and 
Veracruz. Our brands made a difference when they 
were needed the most. We provided thousands of 
personal care family kits and Children Safe Drinking 
Water kits assembled by P&G volunteers. We delivered 
around $450,000 in in-kind donations, the equivalent 
to six 53-foot-long trailer trucks! All our sites opened 
their doors to become collection centers for tools, 
medical supplies, food and clothes, delivering more 
than three tons of supplies. For the first time in Mexico, 
we activated the laundromat, offering to share the load 
with our volunteers. For two weekends, we washed 350 
loads of clothes for families living in camps and shelters  
with support from 68 volunteers. 
Children’s Safe Drinking Water Kits
On June 15, employees from the Milenio Shave Care 
Plant assembled 1,675 Children Safe Drinking Water kits 
in one hour — record time — thanks to the participation 
of 129 passionate volunteers.
We provided thousands of personal 
care family kits and Children’s Safe 
Drinking Water kits assembled by 
P&G volunteers in response to  
two earthquakes in Mexico.
42Latin America
Born Learning
One out of every five children in Latin America lives in 
extreme poverty. Physical inactivity, poor diet and the 
lack of good oral health habits have become major risk 
factors for the health of school-age children. The best 
prevention is the one that begins in early childhood and 
can help mitigate the adverse impact of toxic stress 
during this phase. 
The Born Learning Program, a United Way initiative 
supported by P&G, benefited approximately 40,000 
children in vulnerable situations in Latin America during 
2017. The platform aims to promote physical, social, 
emotional and cognitive development of children under 
six years old. The program has a Healthy Environments 
model which aims to help children grow up in healthy 
and safe environments, promotes self-care habits, 
empowers children in safe-care and connects parents 
to nutrition and health prevention services. The Healthy Environments model has been implemented 
in nearly 500 early child education centers in seven 
countries in Latin America, enhancing knowledge and 
training for 700 teachers. In the last three years, P&G 
has contributed to improving the development of about 
270,000 children, training 15,000 educators and raising 
awareness about the importance of early childhood 
care for more than 67,000 parents and caregivers.
The Born Learning program is executed in Costa Rica 
through a public-private partnership between P&G,  
the Ministry of Health, United Way and Paniamor.
In October 2017, the module was formally delivered  
to the Ministry of Health for its institutionalization and 
execution in public daycares called CEN-CINAI. The Healthy 
Environments model 
has been implemented 
in nearly 500 early child 
education centers.
43Latin America
Helping in Puerto Rico
In the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, rebuilding efforts 
required contributions from many. With help from 
the P&G Global Fund and local funds, we were able to 
donate $80,000 to Habitat for Humanity in Puerto Rico 
to help build homes with those impacted. To keep the 
team spirit alive, the Ace detergent program—Tu Equipo 
Brilla—donated new uniforms to several sports teams 
on the Island. And we also contributed to the local 
foodbank—Banco de Alimentos de Puerto Rico—with 
product donations. 
Employee volunteer work, led by our Culture Network,  
is planning volunteering activities throughout the year  
to continue helping Puerto Rico.Guatemala Volcanic Eruption
Guatemala's most violent volcanic eruption in more 
than a century happened on June 3rd. The Fuego Volcano 
in Guatemala explosion affected more than 1,714,000 
people, and more than 12,000 people had to evacuate. 
P&G, in alliance with United Way Guatemala, helped 
3,615 people by delivering P&G products and P&G  
Purifier of Water packets to shelters.
The Ace detergent program 
donated new uniforms to sports 
teams on the island.
44Europe
Delivering the Comforts of Home
In June, we launched a new series of short films as 
part of a new UK campaign to showcase our 16-year 
partnership with In Kind Direct, the UK’s leading charity 
in product redistribution. Our #ComfortsofHome 
campaign explored the key role having access to 
everyday essentials plays for charities across the UK  
The films showcase the role we played in providing 
quality branded products to help charities tackle 
hygiene and poverty and help provide dignity to  
those in need. Check out the video below. 
Our partnership also goes beyond products. P&G is a 
member of In Kind Direct Board and our employees 
have been involved in volunteering at charity 
beneficiaries as well as other fundraising events.
“Over the last 16 years donations of high 
quality, branded products from P&G to In 
Kind Direct have benefited thousands of UK 
charities and not for profit groups working 
at home and abroad. Our recent award is 
recognition for the outstanding support that  
P&G has provided and reflects the positive 
impact that the partnership has had, and  
continues to have, in disadvantaged 
communities around the UK and overseas.” 
– Robin Boles LVO, CEO, In Kind DirectConnecting Mums and Midwives  
to Say Thank You
Despite their vital role, one in three midwives admits 
they feel underappreciated and undervalued. We 
found that while the majority of UK mums agree that 
it is important to thank midwives, just over half (58%) 
actually do. Pampers therefore rallied parents across 
the UK to encourage them to say #ThankYouMidwife. 
For every #ThankYouMidwife shared on social media, 
the campaign donated £1 to the Benevolent Fund of 
the Royal College of Midwives. Pampers also helped 
renovate midwives staff rooms in 10 hospitals as another 
way to say thank you for the work they do. See the 
results of Pampers #ThankYouMidwife Makeover at 
Princess Anne Hospital.
For every #ThankYouMidwife 
shared on social media, the 
campaign donated £1 to the 
Benevolent Fund of the Royal 
College of Midwives. 
45Europe
Partnerships with Purpose
Across the UK, we have partnered with three leading 
retailers in communities throughout the country. 
Together we have raised more than $442,000.
Supporting the UK Armed Forces, Past and Present, 
and Their Families  
To support the thousands of families that help make 
up the 6.7 million people in the UK’s Armed Forces 
community, we partnered with The Royal British Legion 
and Poppyscotland to launch our “Help us, Help them” 
campaign exclusively at Sainsbury’s. When consumers 
purchased P&G health and beauty products during 
October and November, they triggered a donation 
to the charities. We enlisted UK TV presenter Helen 
Skelton to share the campaign and encouraged 
families across the country to get involved and 
#HelpUsHelpThem. Together, we raised $115,000. 
Feeling Super for Marie Curie 
P&G and Superdrug have partnered since 2015 to 
support the retailer’s corporate charity partner, Marie 
Curie, through a one product = one donation campaign. 
Fronted by long-term ambassador and celebrity mum 
of two, Frankie Bridge, our #FeelSuper campaign has 
raised more than $632,000 for Marie Curie to date. This 
is equal to more than 25,000 hours of expert care and 
support from Marie Curie. Supporting Cancer Research with Tesco 
Cancer Research UK is one of Tesco’s three  
charity partners. 2018 was the second year P&G  
has partnered with Tesco to support the charity  
through a one pack = one donation program across  
all beauty, baby and toiletries products. This year,  
we raised $155,000.
P&G Volunteers Help Change Lives
P&G expanded its partnership with Habitat for Humanity 
in the UK and are volunteering to help refurbish a refuge 
in London, creating a safe environment for women and 
their children to escape abusive relationships.
Lifetime Dental Habit Change
Kids usually don’t like to brush, and when they do 
so, they sometimes don’t do it well. This is probably 
the reason why, in Israel, many children reach third 
grade with cavities. In order to improve oral health, 
Oral-B in Israel has launched the Oral-B Brushing 
Kit: a subsidized power brush and an educational 
book targeting every three-year-old. The brushing 
recommendation is in collaboration with Israel Gums 
experts association. Within the first year, the program 
has reached 48% of three-year-olds in Israel.
The program is reapplied today in European countries 
such as Serbia, and in advance process of adaption in 
Turkey, the UK and Germany.
We partnered with three 
leading retailers through a 
one product = one donation 
campaign, raising more  
than $442,000.
46Europe
Educating and Helping Parents 
Develop Healthy Habits for their  
Kids and Improve their Oral Care
Oral-B is committed to helping young parents and 
children develop good dental habits for life. Oral-B has 
created an educational toolkit in association with the 
University of Leeds designed to help parents help their 
children establish healthy dental habits. It focuses on 
how to brush and make it fun, how friends and family 
can support parents and how healthy eating can protect 
teeth. The materials are for dental professionals and 
designed to support their conversations with parents 
of young children. In 2018, already 2,000 kits have been 
provided to dental professionals, enabling 80,000 
conversations.Coming Together in the Community
Across Northern Europe, our employees are making a 
difference in the communities where they live and work 
through P&G’s ongoing ‘Community Matters’ program. 
All our sites have dedicated community programs 
supporting local charities where people can help 
fundraise and volunteer.
Our Cobalt site, together with our Newcastle Innovation 
Centre, partners with The Community Foundation 
in Tyne & Wear and Northumberland. Since the fund 
started in 1995, we’ve been able to secure more than $1 
million worth of donations for 500 local charities and 
grassroots projects.
France Solidarity Day
Our P&G offices celebrated their ninth French Solidarity 
Day with a focus on our new 2030 environmental goals. 
Approximately 80 multifunctional participants trekked 
two hours from the general office to the seaside at the 
Conservatoire du littoral. 
The Solidarity Day focused on advancing four 
partnerships: Conservatoire du littoral/Coast Protection, 
the public body under the Ministry of Ecology that our 
P&G France Foundation for the Seashore Protection 
has supported since 1992; Gestes Propres, Clean Europe 
member and P&G France partner since 1991; TerraCycle, 
our Head & Shoulders beach plastic bottles partner; and 
SOS Villages d’Enfants, a local children’s home we have 
supported since 2014. Twenty children from four French 
SOS Villages d’Enfants joined us. “All in to act for the planet” was the theme for the day 
with two goals—collect litter from the beach alongside 
Gestes Propres and TerraCycle (to be used in the 
production of Head & Shoulders beach bottles) and help 
reopen a natural site that belongs to Conservatoire du  
littoral by clearing wetland shrubs and non-native species. 
SOS Villages d’Enfants also participated. P&G employees 
helped the children build insect hotels, which they 
proudly brought back to their SOS villages. This event 
helped raise awareness and answer questions about 
the SOS Villages d’Enfants and how P&G actions 
positively support the SOS Villages.
As a result, 900 liters of non-recyclable waste was 
removed, 480 liters of recycled waste was collected,  
60 liters of rigid plastic was put back into the Head & 
Shoulders bottle production line, eight insect hotels were 
built and 80 employees gave back to their community. 
We’re helping make 
brushing and eating 
healthy and fun for 
both young parents 
and their children.
We collected 60 liters of rigid plastic 
that was then put back into our 
Head & Shoulders product line.
47Europe
P&G Turkey received Red Crescent 
Platinum Award 
This year, we donated more than $477,000 worth of P&G  
products to the Turkish Red Crescent. For our continuous 
donation efforts, we were awarded two gold medals 
from the Turkish Red Crescent last year, and this year 
we received a platinum award presented by Turkish 
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 
P&G Belgium helps people in need 
through product donation
We have been supporting Goods-to-Give, a Belgian 
NGO collecting surpluses of non-food stock, since 2013. 
We have donated almost one million P&G products, 
reaching more than 116,000 people in need through  
134 social organizations. To give our collaboration an 
extra boost, we also assembled 5,000 Mother Day’s  
gift and “hygiene” boxes for mums in need.Belgian employees give back  
during their Solidarity day
Employees gave back to the community by helping  
an entire day at different social organizations and NGOs 
in Belgium. Activities included preparing a home-made 
meal for the homeless in Brussels, giving the elderly 
an active and fun day and wrapping birthday gifts for 
children and mums. Since our first solidarity day in 2016, 
we have made a difference for more than 5,000 people, 
including homeless, elderly people, refugees, children  
in need and children with disabilities. 
Belgian employees help Mariam’s 
wish come true
Mariam, facing a serious illness, had one wish—to be 
CEO of a big company for a day. On May 24, she took 
over the role of CEO at the P&G Brussels Innovation 
Center where she started the day with a meeting, 
followed by a visit to the perfume lab. Mariam learned 
how perfumes are made and even developed her own 
personalized Lenor bottle and fragrance. And thanks  
to charity events organized by our employees, we  
raised money to make three more wishes come true  
via Make-A-Wish. We received one platinum 
award and two gold medals 
for our work with the 
Turkish Red Crescent. 
P&G Brussels Innovation Center 
gave Miriam her wish—to be CEO 
of a big company for a day.
48Europe
Pampers Donated 5,000 Newborn 
Starter Kits to Young Families  
and Mothers
In Austria, 24% of children ages 0–5 and 22% of women 
live in poverty. Pampers already partnered with Caritas 
(#1 charity organization fighting poverty in Austria) 
to support low-income families, donating two trucks 
of diapers worth $80,000. We know that young, low-
income families require more holistic support so we 
partnered with Caritas & BIPA (#1 drugstore in Austria) 
to set-up a donation campaign for Newborn Starter 
Kits. As part of the starter kits, families are not only 
provided with diapers, baby clothes and baby food 
but also receive counseling and support. Consumers 
supported the campaign via the purchase of Pampers 
diapers, donating $0.57 for starter kits with every pack 
purchased. The progress was communicated in near 
real-time via a donation counter on the website as 
well as on the cash receipts, showing the individual 
contribution of the shopper. We reached our goal of 
5,000 Starter Kits within one month, and the program 
has become part of one of Caritas’ ongoing campaigns 
to raise awareness for young families. The campaign  
is supported by many public figures including Austria’s 
first lady.Spanish Red Cross
Health and hygiene are core to our business but are also 
critical for those who need it the most. Oral-B partnered 
with the Red Cross in Spain to enable families and 
children in need to have access to proper oral health 
care, improving their overall present and future well-
being. In just the first year, the effort benefited nearly 
200 children and more than 100 families.
Doubling Efforts Against  
Breast Cancer
Ausonia has partnered with the Spanish Association 
Against Cancer (AECC) for more than 10 years to 
increase the awareness and financial investment 
to strengthen the battle against breast cancer. This 
disease affects one out of every eight women in Spain. 
Thanks to the overall investment in research, social 
awareness and early diagnosis, Spain has increased its 
survival rates by 1.4% and chances of survival five years 
from diagnosis is now 83% — 15% better than 20 years 
ago. Ausonia’s commitment to women was recognized 
by Her Majesty the Queen of Spain, Doña Letizia.
We are also an active member of STANPA (National 
Cosmetic and Perfumery Industry association) and 
a supporter of its program “Ponte Guapa, te Sentirás 
Mejor” (“Beauty will help you feel good”), which helps 
women fight breast cancer by strengthening their 
self-esteem through beauty. Every year, Olay products 
are part of the beauty kit distributed by the program 
to women in 28 hospitals across Spain during the 
program’s beauty workshops to cancer patients.We created 5,000 Starter 
Kits for young families 
and young mothers that 
also included counseling 
and support.
Ausonia has partnered with 
the Spanish Association 
Against Cancer for more  
than 10 years.
49Europe
Creating Homes for Children
In Spain, P&G has partnered with Aldeas Infantiles 
SOS (SOS Villages) for more than 10 years to provide 
the comforts of a home to children in need. This year, 
in addition to the ongoing Company and employees’ 
donations to improve their homes, P&G volunteers 
visited the villages to create awareness among the 
children and their families on the importance of a proper 
oral hygiene and training on how to improve it. 
A Click Against School Drop Out
We partnered with Save the Children and Amazon in 
Spain and Italy to fight against school dropout and the 
consequences of such action. Spain has the second 
largest dropout rates in the European Union and data 
confirms that the majority of the poorest children in 
the country have abandoned their education at an early 
stage. Italy is facing a similar situation. Thanks to the 
Save the Children partnership and to the engagement 
from consumers, Save the Children educational support 
program is being strengthened, benefiting children 
with more than 26,000 hours of education across  
both countries. Making People Smile
Supporting and educating the professional dental 
community is one of our commitments to communities. 
Through www.dentalcare.co.uk, a P&G-supported portal, 
we offer the dental professional community scientific 
studies, exchange and education courses providing 
them opportunities to stay abreast of key research and 
educate their patients on oral health conditions, dental 
procedures and proper oral hygiene techniques.
Approximately ten percent of families in Germany with 
children have incomes that lie below the poverty line. 
Oral-B is committed to making a positive contribution 
to these underserved communities through volunteer  
contributions and collaborating with key partners like 
RTL, a German TV station, and its annual Spenden-
marathon, which is a fundraiser that raises money for 
children in need.
Habitat for Humanity – Working 
Together to Build Homes
Leveraging a corporate grant, employees in Hungary 
and Poland donated more than 500 working hours to 
renovate a rental apartment, a facility for those with 
intellectual disabilities and apartments for those in 
need. Not only does this give back to the community, 
but employees feel a sense of pride being able to help 
their neighbors.Sharing a Smile in Italy
Families of children affected by rare genetic diseases 
now have more hope thanks to Telethon’s research. 
AZ Ricerca and Vanessa Incontrada have decided to 
support Telethon’s efforts in by encouraging Italian 
people to donate smiles to children affected by rare 
genetic diseases and to their families. Every smile 
is converted into a donation to Telethon. This year, 
Oral-B supported the charity campaign via an in-store 
campaign and as social activation, donating more  
than $170,000. 
P&G Italy supported the 
Donate A Smile campaign 
with an in-store promotion, 
donating more than 
$170,000.
50Helping in Vietnam
P&G Vietnam continues to provide strong support  
to the most unprivileged communities across the 
country through several programs. The Children’s 
Safe Drinking Water Program in Vietnam is done in 
partnership with the Vietnam Red Cross, and we have 
a three-year agreement focusing on the six disaster-
prone provinces of Vietnam. We provided nine million 
water-purifying packets, equivalent to 90 million liters of 
clean water, impacting the lives of 200,000 households. 
On World Water Day, our celebration coincided with 
an event in An Gian province with representation from 
the Ministry of Health, local authorities, Red Cross 
and also media to raise awareness and educate about 
the importance of clean water for the health of the 
community. This included training at a primary school 
on how to use the water-purifying packets. 
Supporting an Australian Foodbank
We donated 21,500 cases to an Australian foodbank 
this year to help those suffering the effects of natural 
disaster or financial hardship.P&G Builds Communities with 
Habitat for Humanity
We continued our long-term partnership with  
Habitat for Humanity with multiple volunteer  
events across Asia Pacific:
Indonesia  
72 P&G volunteers built six houses just in time with  
six families celebrating Ramadan.
Singapore  
63 P&G volunteers cleaned houses with the elderly  
and rejuvenated community spaces in an island-wide 
movement, “Home Sweep Home”.
Australia  
5 P&G volunteers flew to Northern Vietnam to help build 
homes and raised more than $16,000 for other families 
to be able to get decent housing.
Philippines  
P&G employees and summer interns helped build 
Bistekville 5, a Habitat village, which has more than  
200 families.Asia Pacific
P&G volunteers, 
employees, and interns 
helped construct or clean 
homes and raise money to 
help families get housing.P&G CSDW is partnering 
with Vietnam Red Cross 
to bring clean water to six 
disaster-prone provinces 
in Vietnam.
51Skills-Based Volunteering Helps 
NGOs Help Others
Since 2013, P&G Asia Pacific’s Beyond Borders Skills-
Based Volunteering Program has helped non-profit 
organizations overcome their biggest challenges by 
having P&G employees share their expertise for free. 
This Skills-Based Volunteering Program redefines how 
corporations like P&G can go beyond donating money 
to sharing knowledge. 
P&G in the Asia Pacific region is a pioneer in the  
industry, offering skills-based volunteering opportunities  
including P&G Pro-Bono School (a half-day boot camp  
for non-profits), Consultation Project (small group 
sessions between P&G volunteers and one non-profit 
over four months), Sabbatical with UNICEF (full-time 
work project with UNICEF for three months), and  
Board Matching Program (P&G Senior Leaders being 
appointed to the Advisory Board of influential non-profit  
organizations). The program’s breadth and flexibility 
make it not only easy to get involved, but also more  
meaningful to employees. This Skills-Based Volunteering 
Program has become a beacon for employees, inspiring 
them to make a difference in society by leveraging 
what they are best at! This year alone, more than 150 
P&G employees volunteered their time and expertise 
to provide free consultation to more than 30 non-profit 
organizations. 
This program was recognized externally, receiving 
American Chamber of Commerce in Singapore CARES 
Award—for the third year in a row. Bangkok Plant Giving Back  
to Society
Our Bangkok Plant Giving Back to Society program 
aims to help the local community by focusing on two 
schools, two child development centers, one hospital, 
two foundations and one community group by helping  
to provide these organizations with clean clothes. 
P&G Korea Committed to a Better 
Today for Better Life
P&G Korea made an Memorandum of Understanding 
with Seoul’s Children’s Hospital to create resting 
lounges, a kids’ library, and baby feeding rooms at the 
hospital. This hospital specializes in helping children 
who suffer from rare diseases or developmental delays. 
We are working to help make a better day and a better 
life for families during their stay at this hospital.
Asia Pacific
P&G APAC’s Beyond Borders 
Skills-Based Volunteering 
Program helps non-profit 
organizations go beyond donating 
money to sharing knowledge.
52Greater China
Hope School Students on  
China’s Most Prestigious Stage
P&G China, China Youth Development Foundation 
(CYDF) and the National Centre for Performing Arts 
(NCPA), the most prestigious national theatre in China, 
announced a three-year corporate social responsibility 
plan. P&G and CYDF will co-sponsor NCPA’s annual 
International Children’s Drama Season from 2018 
to 2020. In return, the NCPA will include more P&G 
Hope School students in the Children’s Drama Season 
productions. This program is the first of its kind in China 
to use the arts to engage and empower kids in need. 
During the first year, 28 children from one of P&G  
Hope Schools performed on the stage of NCPA. A  
sellout audience of 800 enjoyed the performance, which 
also commemorated P&G China’s 30th anniversary.
To extend the art outreach, P&G China also started 
three-year “drama in education” teachers’ training, 
equipping rural teachers with this innovative approach 
to teaching children how to express their abilities, 
imagination and creativity.Smile Fund
This year, Crest and the China Youth Development 
Foundation established the Smile Fund, aiming to bring 
oral care education to the children in rural areas. From 
December to May, we went to 10 Hope Schools in six 
provinces which helped more than 3,300 children  
to smile brighter. In the coming year, the “Smile Fund” 
will be implemented in more Hope Schools, helping  
to spread smiles.
P&G China began a three-year 
corporate social responsibility plan, 
which included P&G Hope School 
students given more access to the 
National Centre for Performing Arts.10 Hope Schools, reaching more 
than 3,300 children, were taught 
about oral care.
5320 Years of Hygiene Education
The P&G China school program was launched in 1997 to 
help Chinese children and young girls develop hygiene 
habits early in life so they can grow up healthy and 
happy. It consists of handwashing, dental hygiene and 
menstrual education classes. To date, the program has 
provided nearly 250 million health education toolkits, 
benefiting 145 million children from more than 20,000 
primary and middle schools across 200 cities in China. 
As our China school program moves into its 21st year, 
our mission is moving beyond the material needs of 
the students to their health, spiritual, social and cultural 
needs, as well as addressing the shortage of quality 
teachers and the growing issues of rural “left-behind” 
children whose parents are forced to leave their families 
and work in the city to earn a living.Pampers Helping the Most 
Vulnerable Babies
Pampers partnered with neonatal intensive care unit 
(NICU) nurses to specially design smaller diapers for 
premature babies. Pampers has donated 400,000 
diapers to 17 hospitals in China thus far, helping more 
than 1,000 premature babies while they are treated in 
the NICU. In June 2018, we launched the Preemie video 
of “Long Awaited First Touch” to call public attention 
to premature babies and their families. The video 
generated three million views in just two days.
Greater China
Since 1997, P&G has 
provided 250 million 
health education 
toolkits across 200 
cities in China.Pampers has donated 
400,000 diapers to 17 
hospitals in China.
54India, Middle East and Africa
P&G Shiksha
P&G India’s signature community impact program, 
P&G Shiksha, in partnership with NGOs, has built and 
supported approximately 1,800 schools across the 
country, which is an increase of more than 300 since  
last year, helping more than 1.4 million children. 
Since 2005, P&G Shiksha has empowered consumers 
to help contribute towards the education of under-
privileged children through their brand choices. We 
share a part of the sales towards Shiksha, resulting 
in a cumulative donation of more than $10 million for 
building new schools, providing critical infrastructural 
amenities at existing schools and reviving non-operational 
government schools. During the year, Save the Children, 
in partnership with P&G Shiksha, has continued to 
empower marginalized girls through holistic education.
A key area of our intervention is Remedial Learning  
and Early Childhood Education. We have partnered with 
Pratham Education Foundation to improve the learning 
outcomes and bridge the existing gap between 
current and existing learning levels. The results were 
phenomenal; we reached out to more than 670 schools 
and more than 24,000 children and saw the learning 
levels in the schools rise at the end of the year following 
our interventions. Before the intervention, only 20% of 
children in these schools were able to read and write 
as per their curriculum level—after our invention, this increased to 70%! Similarly, there was more than a  
two-fold increase in the percentage of children who 
were able to do basic arithmetic after our intervention. 
We also identified “Early Childhood Education” as a key 
opportunity area in the educational landscape of the 
country. We focus on improving the motor, cognitive, 
social-emotional, pre-language and pre-math skills in 
children before they enter the first grade.
Two years ago, P&G Shiksha forayed into impacting 
learning levels via digital learning. P&G entered into 
a partnership with Education Initiatives (EI) and the 
Government of Rajasthan to implement Mindspark, 
a computer-based adaptive learning solution that 
integrates pedagogy, teacher instruction and a learning  
management system to help students learn mathematics  
and English. The tool analyzes the learning levels of the 
students in language and mathematics by presenting 
them with questions in increasing level of difficulty. On  
answering incorrectly, the student is provided a simple  
or detailed explanation, or is redirected to questions 
that strengthen the basic understanding. The program  
was implemented in 30 government schools in Rajasthan  
where more than 6,700 students spent more than  
10,000 hours learning using Mindspark. Post intervention,  
the learning levels among students using Mindspark 
improved two-fold compared to the control group. 
 The tool also provides teachers with information on the 
progress and learning levels of students which is used 
for effective classroom management and instruction. 
P&G Shiksha in partnership 
with Education Initiatives and 
the Government of Rajasthan 
implemented a computer-based 
learning program, Mindspark, 
that improved learning levels 
two-fold compared to the 
control group.
P&G Shiksha has donated 
more than $10 million 
towards education  
of the underprivileged.
55The P&G Oral Care Professional 
team taught oral hygiene and 
treated 740 children and more  
than 1,600 dental cavities.India, Middle East and Africa
P&G Oral Care is Committed  
to Improving Oral Hygiene  
in Rural Kenya 
P&G’s Oral Care Professional organization teamed 
up with the University of Michigan to work on a 
joint initiative that would help improve oral hygiene 
practices among children in rural Kenya. Fewer than 
1,000 dentists serve the 44 million population of Kenya, 
from the far reaches of the bush to the vast expanses 
of the country’s capital Nairobi. Dental hygiene is a 
rarity outside privileged urban regions. Tooth decay is 
the most common chronic disease of childhood. Oral 
hygiene was taught to more than 1,000 children aged 
4-9 years, as well as their teachers. In total, the team 
treated more than 740 children and addressed more 
than 1,600 cavities. For many of the children, this was 
their first engagement with a dentist. 
CSDW in Pakistan
P&G announced Year 4 of its partnership with  
METRO Cash & Carry and Health Oriented Preventive 
Education (HOPE) via the P&G Children’s Safe Drinking 
Water Program to disaster-struck communities in 
Pakistan. Through this program, we have provided 11 
million liters of clean drinking water during the year, 
benefiting around 50,000 people across Pakistan. It 
also made available more than four million liters of clean 
drinking water to families in Karachi during the summer.P&G and HOPE
P&G’s partnership with Health Oriented Preventive 
Education (HOPE) and READ Foundation has provided 
quality education to more than 2,500 underprivileged 
children in Karachi, Thatta, Islamabad and Muzaffarabad 
this year. Girls constitute around 55% of the students at 
the P&G-HOPE and P&G-READ Foundation schools.
56India, Middle East and Africa
Funfest Pakistan
Employees continue to spend time with children  
at the SOS Village in Karachi, giving them a sense of 
belonging. This year, more than 50 P&G employees 
endeavored to spread cheer and happiness by  
creating a memorable day for around 145 children 
through the highly anticipated P&G Funfest event. 
Caring for Our Newest  
Members of Society 
The first 1,000 days of life—between a woman’s 
pregnancy and her child’s second birthday—is a unique 
window of opportunity. The right nutrition and care 
influences not only whether the child will survive, but 
also his or her ability to grow, learn and rise out of 
poverty. Pampers, UNICEF South Africa and retailer  
Pick ‘n Pay partnered to raise funds to enable hospitals 
and communities to provide the best care for the 
newest members of society, laying the foundation  
for a brighter future.
Ramadan “Sharing Fridge” Supports 
Low-Income Workers in Dubai
As a goodwill gesture to the local community during 
the Islamic month of Ramadan (May and June), a group 
of employees in the Dubai office set up the Company’s 
first “Sharing Fridge.” The Sharing Fridge’s campaign 
gives low-income workers—many of whom are both 
fasting and working in temperatures exceeding 35 
degrees Celsius (95°F)—access to free food and drinks 
during the month.Started in 2016, the concept of the Ramadan Sharing 
Fridges gained traction online, and people across Dubai 
in the United Arab Emirates began to set up and stock 
fridges placed throughout the city. Funded by the 
Arabian Peninsula selling and marketing organization, 
the first-ever P&G Sharing Fridge was placed in an 
industrial area near the Dubai General Office, and it 
became a cause the whole office supported. Employee 
teams chose days on which they’d stock the fridge 
with drinks such as juices, soda and milk, along with 
packaged foods and fruits.
“Ramadan is a time of gifting and charity, and 
through the Sharing Fridge, we’ve been able 
to give back to the local community around 
the office in a way that is both sustainable 
and engages every P&Ger here.”
– Omer Awan, Associate Director, Supply 
Chain Operations for the Arabian Peninsula 
& PakistanProviding Books to Those in Need
P&G in the Arabian Peninsula has continued its 
partnership with the Abu Dhabi-headquartered LuLu 
Hypermarket and Dubai-based charity Dubai Cares  
to provide books for thousands of children in the  
Middle East region. Supported by the Mohammed Bin 
Rashid Global Centre for Endowment Consultancy,  
the ‘Brands for Education’ campaign has been running 
for two years and has raised more than $75,000 for 
books through an in-kind donation from P&G for every 
consumer purchase from LuLu Hypermarkets during 
the campaign.
P&G Partners With Injaz Saudi  
to Promote Work Readiness
In the Arabian Peninsula, we partnered with Injaz Saudi, 
the local affiliate of Junior Achievement Worldwide, on 
a product designed to promote work readiness among 
young Saudis and prepare them for careers in the private 
sector. The Steer Your Career project focuses on helping 
young Saudi nationals learn skills so that they’re able to 
enter the work force in the private sector. Over the past 
six months, P&G, Injaz and a number of P&Gers from the 
Company’s Jeddah operations have given training to 
almost 500 Saudi students in a number of universities 
in Jeddah, Madinah and Riyadh in the areas of time 
management, verbal and written communications, 
interview techniques, problem solving, team work, 
developing a career path and leadership development.Employees stocked 
the fridge with drinks, 
packaged foods and 
fruits to support low-
income workers.
57North America
United Way
In 1915, P&G helped establish the Cincinnati Community 
Chest, which today is known as the United Way of 
Greater Cincinnati. United Way brings people and 
organizations together to create real change for the 
city. With the help of more than 90,000 supporters, 
United Way of Greater Cincinnati has impacted the 
lives of 365,000 people a year, in 10 counties across 
Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. The annual P&G United 
Way campaign provides support to reach bold goals 
like ensuring children are prepared for kindergarten, 
helping families achieve financial stability and ensuring 
people lead healthy, quality lives with maximum 
independence. This year, P&G employees, shareholders 
and retirees donated $9.7 million to the United Way  
of Greater Cincinnati’s annual campaign. Cincinnati Music Festival 
P&G proudly returned as presenting sponsor for 
the Cincinnati Music Festival (CMF) for the fourth 
consecutive year. As one of the largest urban music 
festivals in the country, we see CMF as an opportunity 
to bring people together through the power of music 
and a strong spirit of inclusion and community 
understanding. The festival allows us to connect 
with tens of thousands of music fans from around 
the country and ignites a critical conversation that 
promotes economic, social and cultural development 
in Cincinnati and beyond. Our brands hold a visible and 
dynamic presence with immersive experiences like the 
Old Spice and Head & Shoulders Kickback Man Cave 
and the Goddess Patio Spa, to treat guests to a one-of-
a-kind weekend that #FeelsLikeCMF. Beyond the music, 
P&G’s My Black is Beautiful partnered with the National 
Underground Railroad Freedom Center and the Greater 
Cincinnati Association of Black Journalists to host an 
open discussion and event, “Navigating Barriers and 
Possibilities.” To increase national exposure of the event, 
we partnered with the Oprah Winfrey Network for the 
first time ever. OWN provided their network audience 
with an all-access pass to the fest’s hottest musical acts 
and our brand experiences were highlighted in videos 
surrounding the release of OWN’s new TV show, “Love 
Is,” which aired in August.Feeding America
It’s a startling fact that in America today 40 million 
people face food insecurity—including 12.5 million 
children and five million seniors. Feeding America® is 
the nation’s largest domestic hunger-relief organization 
and works to assist people facing hunger through 
their network of 200 foodbanks. As a long-standing 
partner, P&G has been playing a role in helping Feeding 
America’s mission by donating everyday household 
essentials and personal care products from brands 
such as Charmin, Dawn, Oral-B, Pampers, Pantene 
and Secret which are distributed through a network 
of 200 foodbanks and 60,000 food pantries and meal 
programs. For the past several years, P&G has helped 
to support School Pantry programs for kids. In the 
U.S., Always teamed up with Feeding America on a 
campaign aimed at helping to #EndPeriodPoverty by 
sparking conversations and taking action by donating 15 
million period products to girls in need this school year.
P&G partnered with the 
Oprah Winfrey Network 
for the first time ever to 
increase national exposure.This year, Always 
partnered with Feeding 
America to bring 15 
million period products 
to girls in need.
58North America
Habitat for Humanity
P&G teams volunteer to help build decent and 
affordable homes in the headquarter city of Cincinnati. 
The Vecindades Team volunteered to help build a home 
in the suburb of Lockland.
Park and River Clean-Up
On September 20, more than 300 P&G Canada 
employees participated in our first-ever P&G Gives 
Back Park & River Clean-Up. In total, we collected 531 kg 
(1,170 lbs) of garbage, including four pounds of cigarette 
butts! This event kicked off our annual P&G Gives Back 
employee canvassing campaign where all employee 
donations are matched by P&G to the United Way.Always Donates Product to Help 
#EndPeriodPoverty
On June 25, 2018, Always reaffirmed ongoing efforts to 
empower girls and women through product donations 
to organizations supporting asylum seekers, as well 
as to colleges, in the Toronto area. Volunteers packed 
2,000 P&G personal hygiene kits consisting of Always 
pads, Crest toothpaste, Oral-B toothbrush, Pantene 
shampoo and conditioner, Secret antiperspirant 
and Ivory soap. These kits were donated to local 
organizations supporting asylum seekers and refugees. 
In addition, Always donated 20,000 pads to local college 
campuses in support of their efforts to increase access 
to period protection for students.
Volunteers packed 2,000 personal 
hygiene kits for supporting 
asylum seekers and refugees.
P&G Gives Back campaign collected 
531kg (1,170 lbs) of garbage.
59Employee Well-Being
P&G Vibrant Living
Vibrant Living is P&G’s global health and well-being 
program. Our Vibrant Living vision is “Enable peak 
performance by inspiring meaningful, happy, healthy 
lives” and is supported by three pillars:
“Meaningful” Heart — Feeling proud to be part of P&G 
and connecting with others, at home, at work and in the 
community, who share similar interests and passion to 
bring out our best.
“Happy” Mind — Enriching our overall well-being, 
building resilience and strengthening relationships to 
enjoy the best in life.
“Healthy” Body  — Optimizing our physical strength and 
energy to meet everyday challenges and enjoy an active 
lifestyle. That’s the core of Vibrant Living.
Vibrant Living provides employees a family of offerings 
in the areas of fitness, nutrition, mental and emotional 
resilience, health education and training, and hands-
on activities and events to aid personal fulfillment and 
peak performance. Many of our Vibrant Living programs 
are available to family members and through the 
“Meaningful” Heart pillar. Vibrant Living extends to the 
communities where we work and live.Positive P&G Employee  
Survey Trends
This year, 82% of employees participated in Vibrant 
Living events, activities and programs. For the seventh 
year in a row, we have seen a positive impact from 
Vibrant Living on our Personal Well-Being index. 
Global Vibrant Living Awareness Day
2018 was a milestone year for Global Vibrant Living 
Awareness Day. On this five-year anniversary, 93% of 
sites around the world participated in “Let’s Celebrate 
the Journey.” The intent of Global Vibrant Living 
Awareness Day is to remind employees of all the Vibrant 
Living programs available and, this year specifically, to 
encourage employees to celebrate the small steps on 
our health and well-being journey and to connect with 
others who are on a similar path.
A Workplace Culture of Health and 
Well-Being
• We have 119 certified Vibrant Living sites that support 
the health and well-being of our employees.
• With the help of 241 Vibrant Living health coaches 
and champions throughout the world, employees can 
connect to Vibrant Living resources they need most.
• Our global online wellness assessment is available to 
employees in more than 30 languages.
• We are continuing a progressive 10% utilization rate 
with our WorkLife Solutions Program, which reaches 
more than 90% of employees worldwide.
Employees have access to  
Vibrant Living health coaches  
and champions to get the support 
and resources they need. 
60Employee Well-Being
Vibrant Living
Highlights from Sites Around the World
5K Walk/Run  
The Cincinnati General Offices  
700 employees from around the city participated  
in this Vibrant Living event. 
Family Day 2018 
Cabuyao Plant, Philippines  
With their #StepUp2HelpOut step challenge employees 
and their families not only got healthier together, but 
with every 10,000 steps helped to feed a hungry child.
Information Stations  
St. Petersburg Plant, Russia  
Information Stations on the topics of Healthy Breakfast 
Choices, The Truth About Calories and Stress and 
Resilience were provided on all shifts. 
Vibrant Living Revolution  
Mumbai, Goa, Hyderabad and Mandideep Plants, India  
Nearly 600 employees across four sites participated 
in a 12-week challenge to promote healthy behaviors. 
In addition to individual and team achievement, 
collectively all participants endeavored to Circle the 
Globe by the cumulative steps taken. Morning Tea  
Hong Kong  
To lift spirits, employees had morning tea with elders 
in their community to share stories, play games, create 
memories, take photos and give P&G product gifts. 
Meditation and Stretch Breaks 
Sao Paolo General Office  
To be more vibrant throughout the day, employees 
participated in meditation and stretch breaks. 
Walking Trail  
Greensboro Plant, United States  
Employees celebrated the grand re-opening of their 
outdoor walking trail. 
Celebrate Every Achievement  
Materiales Plant, Peru  
As part of Global Vibrant Living Awareness Day, 
employees were invited to note a change or 
achievement in their physical or mental health,  
allowing each one of them to notice that small  
changes can build healthy habits. Some highlights 
among them: “Spending more time with my  
children,” “Take dance classes” and “Eat breakfast.”
61Employee Well-Being
Vibrant Living 
P&G Mexico was granted the prestigious Workplace 
Wellness Council – Mexico award for the fifth year in  
a row for our Vibrant Living and Medical programs.  
This is the highest recognition for best practices in 
Health & Wellness.
Brazil was also recognized externally for their Vibrant 
Living programs and received a Wellness Award.
P&G Korea served in a momentous role with the 2018 
Winter Olympics in PyeongChang. Torchbearers included 
P&G’s Asia-Pacific Region President Magesvaran Suranjan 
(pictured below, right) and Hyunju Jeon (pictured below, 
left), a Product Supply employee who had won a P&G 
Korea walkathon competition. The walkathon challenge 
helped build anticipation surrounding the games and 
promote fitness through our Vibrant Living employee 
wellness program.Running for good at the Geneva 
Marathon for UNICEF
Nearly 500 passionate P&G colleagues and families 
came together for a positive impact in the community 
and healthier living at the Geneva Marathon for UNICEF. 
Once again, it was a record participation level with P&G 
being the largest corporation represented. The most 
demanding, yet very rewarding, experience was running 
alongside disabled children in a joëllette (wheelchair). 
Every year, about 30 volunteers help kids from the  
Clair Bois Foundation experience this unique event.
Two P&G Korea 
representatives served 
as torchbearers in the 
2018 Winter Olympics 
in PyeongChang.
62Employee Well-Being
Global Medical
1. Save a Life  
(Protect Our People)
2. Obey the Law 
(Protect Company Reputation)
3. Protect Key Technologies  
(Protect Brand Integrity)
4. Enhance Speed to Market  
(Support Emerging Technologies and New Business 
Development)
5. Inspire Health and Wellness  
(Vibrant Living, Travel Medicine Support, Global 
WorkLife Solutions and EAPs)We touch and improve the lives of our employees with 
focused delivery of our five Global Medical priorities. The 
P&G Medical vision “Touching and Improving the Health 
and Well-Being of P&G People – Healthy People, Healthy 
Business” reflects the importance of the well-being, 
productivity and innovativeness of our employees. The 
P&G global Employee Health and Well-Being Standard 
ensures that we deliver:
• The same corporate Health and Well-Being 
requirements at all P&G locations consistently around 
the world, assuring that sites provide employees with 
the appropriate level of occupational health assurance 
programs and services.
• Comprehensive and effective emergency care for  
our employees, on-site contractors and visitors at  
all our facilities.
• Compliance with related laws and regulations  
and sharing this expectation with all of our  
business partners.
• A culture of health through quality health services  
and Vibrant Living offerings that support employees  
in protecting and promoting their health.
• WorkLife Solutions and Employee Assistance Programs 
(EAPs) to support employees and their families.Our programs are making a difference. Our nearly  
150 P&G Health Services / Vibrant Living Health Centers 
across 40 countries had nearly 305,000 employee 
visits in the past fiscal year. Based on employee 
feedback, 96% of visits surveyed received a favorable 
rating. On the 2018 P&G survey, employees who used 
health services / health centers or on-site health 
programs scored an average of five percentage points 
better on their personal well-being scores. Many of 
these employee visits are proactive, including use 
of preventive health services such as travel health 
consultations, seasonal influenza immunizations 
and personal health and wellness consultations. P&G 
survey results for the last seven years tell a remarkably 
consistent story of well-being improvement.
P&G Health Services/Vibrant 
Living Health Centers across 
40 countries had nearly 
305,000 employee visits.
63Awards & Recognitions
P&G Community Impact initiatives have 
received significant recognition this year, 
including the following:
P&G Indonesia won two bronze awards for “Best 
Workplace Category” and “Female Empowerment/
Gender Equality Category” after competing with  
more than 200 companies across the region.
Our Skills-Based Volunteering Program was recognized 
externally, receiving American Chamber of Commerce 
in Singapore CARES Award—for the third year in a row.
P&G was No. 77 on Forbes’ list of America’s  
Best Employers.
P&G Latin America was named Best Regional Corporate 
Partner by United Way Latin America for its work and 
collaboration to the Born Learning Platform. 
P&G China was awarded “2017 Best Partner of Project 
Hope” by China Youth Development Foundation for its 
continuous contribution to Project Hope.
P&G Panama was recognized by Panama Amcham 
(America Chamber of Commerce) for its work with 
CSDW. This is the highest award for sustainability 
programs in the country and is the first time P&G 
received this.P&G Panama recognized as the 3rd Top Dream 
Company for young people to work in this country.
P&G Brazil was recognized as the #1 Company most 
respected by the consumers awarded by Grupo Padrão /
Consumidor Moderno in Brazil.
P&G Mexico was in #5 with best responsibility and 
corporate government by Merco study. 
P&G Argentina was recognized by the National 
Government in the “Pink House” (Official House) by 
Social Development Minister for the CSDW Program  
in Argentina and our contribution to water issue  
in the country. 
P&G China was awarded “2018 CSR China Top 100”  
by CSR China Education Award for its Project  
Hope children’s drama program and P&G School 
Hygiene Program.
P&G Peru was recognized by the National Labor and 
Defense Ministry and by World Vision for our immediate 
reaction, solidarity and support during the emergency 
caused by “El Niño Costero” phenomenon.
P&G Colombia has been recognized external by the 
Bogota City Council for its community impacts and 
good practices in Social Responsibility.
64Awards & Recognitions
P&G Costa Rica was in the Top 10 Best Companies with 
best responsibility and corporate government in Costa 
Rica by Merco ranking 2018. 
P&G China was recognized as “Top 30 of the World’s Top 
500 Company Contribution List in China” by Southern 
Weekly, one of the most authoritative newspaper in 
China, for its citizenship contributions to China.
P&G Turkey received Red Crescent Platinum Award for 
its ongoing product donations. 
P&G China Project Hope Program was awarded “2017 
Company Citizenship Excellence Award” by China 
Philanthropy Times, the first philanthropic newspaper 
under the supervision of Ministry of Civil Affairs.P&G Latin America was recognized by National 
Geographic for the CSDW Program.
P&G Panama was recognized as “Great Local Corporate 
Partner” by United Way Panama for its work and 
collaboration to the Born Learning Platform and the 
seeding funds for Healthy Environments.
P&G China won several awards in the 7th China Charity 
Festival, the first festival named “charity” initiated 
by mass media. P&G China won “2017 Annual CSR 
Innovation Award” for its excellent company and brand 
citizenship programs. P&G Project Hope Program, P&G 
School Hygiene Program and Crest Smile Fund all won 
“Annual Charity Program Award.” Safeguard won “2017 
Annual CSR Brand.”
65Diversity & Inclusion
P&G is a company that believes in diversity and inclusion. With more than 140 nationalities 
represented in our workforce, our own diversity helps us reflect and win with the consumers we 
serve around the world. The more we understand people, their needs and challenges, the better 
we can delight them with our products and services. And while diversity is essential in all we do, 
we believe inclusion changes the game. Every day we strive to get the full value of our diversity 
through inclusion — fostering an environment where P&G people can be their best, full and 
authentic selves in the workplace. But our job doesn’t end there — our belief and commitment 
extend beyond P&G’s walls. We are driving action on the world stage to make a meaningful 
difference, and we care deeply about our impact, always striving to make the world a little bit 
better through our actions.
66HIGHLIGHTS
The Talk  Sparks Dialogue  
and Earns Honors
Last year, P&G tackled head-on a real challenge the  
U.S. and other countries must address — racial 
inequality driven by racial bias. We decided to step 
up and use our voice to shine the light on racial bias, 
continuing our efforts to create a better world for 
everyone, with equal representation, equal voice and 
equal opportunity — regardless of background. 
We created a two-minute film focused on “the talk”  
that many black parents in America have with their 
children about racial bias to prepare, protect and 
encourage them. Throughout the film, there are 
scenes of parents having a version of The Talk with 
their son or daughter in various situations and across 
different decades. These depictions of The Talk 
illustrate that, while times have changed, racial bias 
still exists.
Since it debuted in July 2017, the film has generated 
widespread conversations in social media, news 
forums and millions of views online. The Talk was 
featured as part of the storyline during an episode of 
black-ish, ABC’s hit primetime sitcom and has racked 
up numerous awards including the 2018 Creative Arts 
Emmy award for Outstanding Commercial and 2018 
Cannes Grand Prix Lion for Film Corporate Image.
67HIGHLIGHTS
Documentary Profiles 
Courage and Leadership
In an era of increasing polarization and heightened 
concern for LGBT+ rights, The Words Matter: One 
Voice Can Make A Difference took on one of the most 
salient issues of our time and brought it to a worldwide 
audience. The Words Matter is more than just a 
corporate documentary — it’s a refreshingly candid 
examination of P&G’s own history and a lesson in 
leadership.
P&G commissioned the film in partnership with a  
production team at CNN’s Great Big Story in celebration 
of the 25th anniversary of LGBT+ inclusion at the 
Company. Beyond the launch and distribution of 
the film, P&G wanted to continue to bolster societal 
dialogue about LGBT+ inclusion. Screening events and 
discussions were held in New York, London, Geneva, 
Cincinnati, Cannes, China, Panama and other locations 
across the world. 
68HIGHLIGHTS
Herbal Essences Designs  
a Sense of Touch
In 2019, P&G brand Herbal Essences will be making a 
small change that makes a big impact for people with 
visual impairments. Research shows that more than 
69% of people have sight limitation or confusion, which 
means they have difficulty differentiating shampoo 
from conditioner while in the shower. Herbal Essences 
is taking small steps to ensure the brand is more 
available and inclusive to all consumers with the launch 
of the category’s first “visual impairment aid” via raised 
indentations on each bottle. 
Herbal Essences is making 
sure their products are 
inclusive for all consumers 
with a “visual impairment 
aid”— raised indentations 
that differentiate shampoo 
and conditioner.
69HIGHLIGHTS
Flex@Work Evolves with  
the Times
In an era of single parenting, caring for aging parents, 
supporting a special needs child or navigating same-sex 
parenting, P&G sought to modernize our signature Flex@
Work program to provide location and time flexibility for  
modern families. We recently introduced additional 
upgrades in our parental leave policies in many of our 
largest countries around the world with a clearer focus on 
career flexibility. Today, more than 75% of P&G employees 
report flexing. We have five years of data through our 
employee survey that shows that employees who flex 
report significantly higher scores in four important areas 
of engagement and work-life effectiveness: flexibility, job 
demands, energy and support.
70HIGHLIGHTS
P&G Germany and REWE 
Build Inclusive Playgrounds
With the citizenship campaign “Piece of Happiness”, 
P&G Germany and key customer REWE have joined 
forces with the non-profit group Aktion Mensch to 
build inclusive playgrounds all over Germany within the 
next three years. We are teaming up with REWE, one 
of the biggest grocery chains in Germany, and Aktion 
Mensch, the largest social lottery in Germany. The 
first inclusive playground of the campaign has now 
been opened in Cologne. Children with and without 
disabilities now can jointly experience new adventures 
every day.
P&G is teaming up with a 
key retailer in Germany to 
build inclusive playgrounds 
for children with and 
without disabilities.
71HIGHLIGHTS
P&G Latin America Hosts 
Regional LGBT+ Conference
The GABLE affinity group founded more than 20 
years ago continues to grow and thrive around the 
world. This year, P&G Brazil hosted the first P&G Latin 
America GABLE Conference to bring awareness and 
consciousness of LGBT+ and diversity matters with a 
lens on business impact. The conference was attended 
by more than 70 P&Gers from 10 different countries 
including P&G Brazil’s leadership team and more than 
40 external guests from local business and academia.
72Diversity &  
Inclusion
73Message from  
William P. Gipson
“P&G has an unwavering commitment to leveraging diversity and 
inclusion to innovate for growth across our business. When we build 
a more inclusive workplace and world, we can do a better job of 
delighting consumers with our products and brands.
Internally, we are continually working to improve our culture through 
policies, training and employee support systems to meet the needs 
of our changing workforce. We have eight company-sponsored 
affinity groups and are respectful of everyone—regardless of race, 
color, gender, age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, gender expression, marital status, disability, veteran status, 
HIV/AIDS status or any other legally protected factor. 
And because the people of P&G will always be our most important 
asset, we celebrate teams and leaders who ensure everyone is 
performing at their peak and working seamlessly together.
Externally, we believe in using our voice in advertising and media 
to call attention to bias, spark dialogue and motivate change in 
the world. We know advertising has the power to shape how 
communities see themselves and each other. Many of our brands 
are advancing diversity and inclusion perspectives through accurate 
and positive portrayals in everyday advertising, and through calling 
attention to issues like racial inequality and LGBT+ bias.”
William P. Gipson  
President, End-to-End Packaging 
Transformation and Chief 
Diversity and Inclusion Officer
74Using Our Voice
The Talk Sparks Dialogue  
and Earns Honors
Last year, P&G tackled head-on a real challenge that the 
U.S. and other countries must address, using our voice 
to shine a light on racial inequality driven by racial bias. 
We created a two-minute film focused on “the talk” 
that many Black parents in the U.S. inevitably have 
with their children about racial bias to prepare, protect 
and encourage them. Snippets of parents having a 
version of The Talk with their son or daughter in various 
situations and across different decades illustrate that, 
while times have changed, racial bias still exists.
Since it debuted in July of 2017, the film has been viewed 
millions of times online and has generated widespread 
conversations in social media and news forums. The Talk 
was featured as part of the story line during an episode 
of black-ish , ABC’s hit primetime sitcom and has racked 
up numerous awards, including the prestigious 2018 
Cannes Grand Prix Lion for Film Corporate Image and 
2018 Emmy Award for Best Commercial.
We know bias is a tough topic to tackle, but we believe 
acknowledging and understanding it allows us all to 
work together to put an end to its harmful effects. This 
film alone is not a complete solution, but an important 
step in the journey. We hope it will broaden the 
conversation about bias by exploring how people from 
different backgrounds can use listening and dialogue to 
form a common ground of understanding.Vicks India 
India is largely a conservative country—one where 
homosexuality is best kept closeted and where being 
transgendered is considered an unspoken curse. While 
a Supreme Court of India ruling in 2014 recognized 
transgender individuals as the “third gender” and 
some legal and political progress has been made, 
society at large continues to stigmatize and stereotype 
transgender individuals, and they are still denied basic 
rights. Vicks took a bold stand, sending a powerful 
message to help pave the way towards a more inclusive 
society. In a video for their #TouchOfCare campaign, 
Vicks cast a compassionate spotlight on transgender 
activist Gauri Sawant, challenging conventional thinking 
about what it means to be a caring mother.
Tide North America 
Tide advertising, which features diverse families 
sharing household chores, was created to help mitigate 
inaccurate or negative stereotypes that exist in our 
society. By including positive portrayals of Black fathers, 
same-sex couples and mixed-race couples in everyday 
advertising, Tide is not only appealing to a range of 
consumer groups, but also helping to establish diverse 
images as the norm, not the exception.
75Using Our Voice
Head & Shoulders North America
As a brand that “takes care of the small stuff so you 
can tackle the big stuff,” Head & Shoulders highlights 
individuals who have moved beyond the limitations 
on their shoulders to achieve great things. For the 
2018 Winter Olympics, P&G’s North America team 
brought extreme skier Gus Kenworthy on board as a 
brand ambassador. Gus had won a Silver medal at the 
2014 Winter Games but had not performed at his peak 
because he kept his sexuality a secret. After coming  
out in 2015, Gus headed to the 2018 Winter Games as 
the first openly gay extreme skier. His dedication to  
not letting limitations get in the way of achievements 
is the embodiment of the Shoulders of Greatness 
campaign. The ad made history by flying the Pride  
flag in a national campaign. 
P&G is First UK Company to Offer 
Audio Description Ads
In the UK, there are two million people with sight loss— 
a huge audience who have, until recently, been largely 
ignored by advertisers. It was this insight from Sam 
Latif, a P&G UK employee who lives with total sight loss, 
that started our journey to make our advertising more 
inclusive by adding Audio Description. P&G was the 
first company to offer Audio Description on advertising 
in the UK, and we are now working with the entire 
industry to enable this service across all channels. Documentary Profiles Courage  
and Leadership 
In an era of increasing polarization and heightened 
concern for LGBT+ rights, The Words Matter: One Voice 
Can Make A Difference  took on one of the most salient 
issues of our time and brought it to a worldwide audience. 
The Words Matter is more than just a corporate 
documentary—it’s a refreshingly candid examination  
of P&G’s own history and a lesson in leadership.
P&G commissioned the film in partnership with a 
production team at Great Big Story in celebration of the 
25th anniversary of LGBT+ inclusion at the Company. It 
centers on the determined efforts of LGBT+ activist and 
retired employee Michael Chanak, who worked tirelessly 
in the 1980s to add sexual orientation to P&G’s equal 
employment opportunity (EEO) statement of diversity. 
The Words Matter  recounts the story of Chanak’s fight 
and the legacy he left behind, bringing P&G into the 
future and altering the private sector forever. The film’s 
surprising transparency, combined with an effective 
storytelling approach blending archival footage with 
compelling personal recollections, turned what might 
have been a stale corporate film into a moving account 
of workplace activism.
Beyond the launch and distribution of the film, P&G 
wanted to continue to bolster societal dialogue about 
LGBT+ inclusion. Screening events and discussions were 
held in New York, London, Geneva, Cincinnati, Cannes, 
China, Panama and other locations across the world. 
P&G worked with Great Big Story/CNN to create an 
online Pride Month media event to showcase the film 
and other LGBT+ stories. The Words Matter  won a 2018 
Cannes Silver Lion for Film Corporate Image.At P&G, we’re committed to using our voice to generate 
dialogue and create positive change. Only by being 
honest about our own past can we have the credibility 
to address important topics. Learning from history, we 
hope this film inspires a new generation to lead by 
following in the footsteps of courageous pioneers like 
Michael Chanak.
76Making an Impact
INROADS Fuels Pipeline  
of Diverse Talent
Since the 1980s, P&G has been working with non-profit 
INROADS to grow and develop talented, diverse youth 
in the U.S. Students of varied cultural backgrounds 
have joined P&G as interns and worked across all 
functions and business sectors. Without the support 
of INROADS, P&G couldn’t have placed as many 
outstanding ethnically diverse students into internships 
or developed them to achieve career success at P&G. 
Many highly-talented professionals who started their 
career as interns are today leading teams at P&G. 
“Equality is Opportunity: INROADS Turns Dreams into 
Reality,” a 2018 documentary created by WorkingNation, 
featured Arun Yagnamurthy, who spent a summer 
working in P&G’s North America Sales organization. Project REACH Rolls Out  
in P&G Russia
Project REACH is designed to provide young people 
with disabilities the opportunities to grow their 
confidence and independence and gain valuable 
experience far beyond administrative tasks. P&G Russia 
embraced the program this year and initiated the 
biggest rollout of any P&G office, covering six functions 
(HR, IT, Finance & Accounting, Product Supply, Sales and 
Marketing). Dozens of trainings have been conducted 
for REACH newcomers and for the P&G teams who 
welcome them. 
With the support of 
INROADS, we place 
students into internships 
and help them develop a 
career at P&G.
77Making an Impact
Leveraging Neurodiversity  
for Innovation 
Based in P&G UK’s Reading Innovation Center, Dr. 
Emma O’Leary has been championing and leveraging 
neurodiversity to further innovation for the Company. 
In a first for Europe, Dr. O’Leary has designed a work-
experience program for people on the autism spectrum, 
in collaboration with the National Autistic Society. 
She worked to ensure that the organization received 
training on autism, that the right measures were in 
place for the participants and that all participants  
were put at ease. 
The interns reported a big confidence boost and their 
appreciation for the opportunity. Within P&G, eyes were 
opened to a broader definition of diversity and inclusion. 
The program resulted in two interns hired for 12-month 
internships and the Talent Supply team gaining an 
understanding of how to build accommodations in  
the hiring process for people with autism.P&G Germany and REWE Build 
Inclusive Playgrounds
With the citizenship campaign “Stück zum Glück” 
(“Piece of Happiness”), P&G Germany and REWE, one 
of the largest grocery chains in Germany, have joined 
forces with the non-profit group Aktion Mensch to 
build inclusive playgrounds across Germany over the 
next three years. The campaign demonstrates how a 
joint citizenship campaign can improve the lives of our 
consumers while also building the business. For each 
P&G product purchased at REWE, one cent will be 
donated, with a guaranteed donation of $1.1 million.  
The campaign’s first inclusive playground has now 
been opened in Cologne, and children with and without 
disabilities can jointly experience new adventures every 
day. “We are thrilled by the initial success of our joint 
campaign,” said Astrid Teckentrup, Vice President Sales 
at P&G Germany. “We are providing children and their 
families with a valuable space to play and are making  
a lasting improvement to their quality of life.” 
In collaboration with 
the National Autistic 
Society, P&G designed 
a work-experience 
program for those on 
the autism spectrum.
For each P&G product 
purchased at REWE, we 
donate one cent towards 
building inclusive playgrounds  
across Germany.
78Making an Impact
P&G Costa Rica Champions  
LGBT+ Rights
A public-private partnership forged in Costa Rica 
between P&G, the Presidency of Costa Rica, United 
Way, the National Learning Institute, the United Nations 
Development Program and Ulacit (a local university), 
has developed a program that is educating public 
officials on the importance of LGBT+ rights. More than 
100 public officials have been certified to date, and the 
P&G team in Costa Rica is proud to be championing  
this effort.Herbal Essences Designs  
a Sense of Touch
In 2019, the Herbal Essences brand will be making a 
small change that has a big impact for people with 
visual impairments. Research shows a large percentage 
of people have difficulty differentiating shampoo from 
conditioner while in the shower—either due to sight 
limitation or confusion. Herbal Essences is taking small 
steps to ensure the brand is more inclusive to ALL 
consumers with the launch of the category’s first  
“visual impairment aid.” 
Since using similar bottles for both shampoo and 
conditioner makes it virtually impossible to tell the 
difference from touch alone, Herbal Essences saw an 
opportunity to improve the usage experience for ALL 
consumers by developing a system that distinguishes 
shampoo from conditioner through the sense of touch, 
adding etched distinguishers to the back of bottles as 
well as braille on the labels.
Herbal Essences believes that a shower should be a 
relaxing moment in the midst of our crazy days and  
is working to enhance the experience.
We are championing a public-private 
partnership in Costa Rica to educate public 
officials about the importance of LGBT+ rights.
79Changing the Culture
Flex@work Evolves with the Times
In an era of single parenting, caring for aging parents, 
supporting a special needs child or navigating same-
sex parenting, P&G sought to modernize our signature 
Flex@work program to provide location and time 
flexibility for modern families. Flex@work is designed to 
intentionally drive a culture change around flexibility to 
enable all employees to be fully engaged by supporting 
work-life integration, empowering employees to 
personalize their schedules directly with their managers. 
Flex@work has enabled P&G people to effectively 
manage personal needs while remaining fully engaged 
to deliver their work plan and grow their careers. The 
Company recently introduced additional upgrades in 
our parental leave policies in many our largest countries 
around the world and provided a clearer focus on career 
flexibility. Today, more than 75% of P&G employees 
report flexing, and we know that flexibility matters. In 
surveys over the past five years, employees who flex 
report significantly higher scores in four important 
areas of engagement and work-life effectiveness: 
flexibility, job demands, energy and support.“Although many days I had to spend 
in laboratories or doctor’s offices, my 
productivity was great. I felt the Company 
was truly supporting me as an individual, 
even throughout all the hardships.” 
– Aaron, P&G Brazil
“My third child was born this week and this 
is the first time I am going to spend quality 
time with the newborn baby…this is truly a 
dream come true.” 
– Roni, P&G Israel
“As a single mom of four children, trusting me 
to flex my schedule in response to the needs 
of my kids is one of the top motivators for me 
at P&G.” 
– Liz, P&G North America
Flex@work is designed to enable 
all employees to attain work-life 
integration, and today, more than 
75% of employees report flexing.
80Changing the Culture
Love Felt Around the World
From Santiago to London, Toronto to Rome, and at 
global headquarters in Cincinnati, P&G employees and 
their families took to the streets all around the world 
this spring and summer, waving rainbow flags and 
wearing colorful t-shirts (and rainbow glasses!) to  
march in celebration of love and equality. 
In 2018, P&G participated in 35 Pride events globally, and 
we plan to support more than 50 in 2019. Here are some 
of our highlights:
• The GABLE Team in Central Europe, sponsored by  
Vice President Geraldine Huse, sported rainbow 
glasses (procured by Geraldine) while marching 
together at Budapest Pride on July 7. 
• On June 18, for the third year in a row, P&G joined 
the CSD Parade in Frankfurt. P&G was the largest 
company group, with 100 P&G employees, companions 
and external partners marching. 
• At the Crailsheim factory, GABLE site leader Horst 
Brazel helped to establish a Unisex Toilet at the factory 
to answer the needs of transgender colleagues. 
• In Boston, Gillette showed up with a stunning blue 
float sporting giant razors.
• In Toronto the Crest “Smile with Pride” float got the 
crowd cheering. 
• Pride St. Charles, located just outside St. Louis, is a 
newer event of only five years so P&G was thrilled to  
be the presenting sponsor this year. P&G Latin America Hosts Regional 
LGBT+ Conference
Founded more than 20 years ago, GABLE—the affinity 
group for Gay, Ally, Bisexual, Lesbian and Transgender 
Employees—continues to grow and thrive around the 
world. This year, P&G Brazil hosted the first P&G Latin 
America GABLE Conference to bring awareness to 
LGBT+ and diversity matters, with a lens on business 
impact. The conference was attended by more than 70 
P&G employees from 10 different countries, including 
P&G Brazil’s Leadership Team and more than 40 
external guests from local business and academia.
The conference covered topics like LGBT phobia, from a 
PhD Professor in Psychology and included case studies 
from other companies, and brands discussing how to 
include diversity or communicate successfully with 
consumers. A panel with Google’s Brazil HR Director  
as a special guest featured personal stories from Shelly 
McNamara, Global HR VP; Fred Heimbeck, former Brazil 
CMK Director; and Aaron Flynn, former Brazil GABLE 
Leader. A highlight of the event was an address by the 
founder of GenderProud, a leading global advocacy and 
awareness organization that aims to advance the rights 
of all transgender individuals.
81Changing the Culture
P&G Employee Affinity Groups
Affinity groups, which connect employees based on 
similar interests or aspects of diversity, are key enablers 
for employees to feel valued, respected and included, 
while enabling them to perform at their peak. They 
foster understanding for the interests and needs 
of employees in their groups and provide P&G with 
assistance in attracting, retaining and developing 
people of their group. Additionally, affinity groups 
provide assistance in understanding and meeting the 
needs of consumers of their group, and often volunteer 
to make a difference in local communities. 
Global Affinity Groups
People With Disabilities Network  
At P&G, we value diversity, including disability diversity. 
We founded the People With Disabilities (PWD) Network 
38 years ago, when the U.S. enacted the Americans 
with Disabilities Act. The global group shares “coping 
strategies” with each other and with colleagues to 
enable fellow people with disabilities to perform at 
their peak in the workplace and to enable managers 
and colleagues to become disability confident. The 
PWD Network also leverages their diversity to influence 
company strategies on things like inclusive product 
development and inclusive advertising.GABLE  
GABLE is dedicated to fostering an inclusive, supportive 
global network that enables Gay, Ally, Bisexual, Lesbian 
and Transgender Employees to contribute to their 
fullest potential and to bring their whole self to work 
every day. What began more than two decades ago 
as largely a North American-centered network for 
fostering workplace equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual 
and Transgendered (LGBT+) employees has grown into 
a supportive and global community, with chapters 
in every region of the world. These grassroots efforts 
have evolved into chapters representing the diversity 
of our employees, as well as strong allies to support 
individuality and inclusion.
Corporate Women’s Leadership Team  
The Corporate Women’s Leadership Team (CWLT) is 
committed to the advancement of women, helping 
ensure that women’s skills and insights are well 
represented throughout our global Company and 
at all levels of leadership. The CWLT continues to be 
actively involved in events and programs that promote 
mentoring, sponsorship, the development of leadership 
skills, flexibility and increasing representation of women 
at all levels.
82Changing the Culture
Regional Affinity Groups
African Ancestry Leadership Network 
The African Ancestry Leadership Network (AALN) is one 
of the longest-established employee groups at P&G, and 
reflects P&G’s century-old commitment to the African-
American community in the U.S. In the early 1950s, the 
company reaffirmed a commitment to diversity by 
hiring black skilled technicians and laborers. In 1958, 
with the launch of Drene Hair Care print advertising, 
P&G began the earliest diversity advertising. Employees 
of African Ancestry have been integral in helping the 
Company become a corporate leader in innovation 
and leadership, and we continue to benefit from rich 
consumer insights to develop new products and 
bring them to market. Although the AALN is currently 
focused on employees of African Ancestry in North 
America, work is underway to expand the group’s  
reach to the African diaspora across the world.
Hispanic Leadership Network  
There are approximately 60,000 Latinos living in the 
Cincinnati area, home to P&G’s global headquarters. 
With language, economic and education barriers, life in 
Cincinnati can be difficult for many Hispanics. A team 
of dedicated P&G volunteers comprising the Hispanic 
Leadership Network in Cincinnati are united in their 
quest to improve people’s lives inside and outside P&G. 
This group volunteers in the community in the areas of 
health, education and the arts and actively engages in 
programs that support young Hispanic talent.Asian Pacific American Leadership Team 
One of the fastest-growing groups in North America, 
the Asian Pacific American Leadership Team (APALT) 
represents the Asian-Pacific Americans working 
at every level in P&G, where they have made major 
contributions to our business. The team offers 
opportunities for networking and is actively involved 
in recruiting, retaining, developing and advancing 
employees of Asian-Pacific heritage. 
Native American Indian Leadership Team 
The mission of the Native American Indian Leadership 
Team (NAILT) is to enable P&G employees with a strong 
Native American Indian cultural identity to bring their  
whole selves to work, in a way that leverages and respects 
the NAI diversity of our workplace and supports the 
communities in which we live. By strengthening 
the network across North America, NAILT aims to 
develop talent of North American Indian employees 
through mentoring, training, informal connections 
and talent career support. The group also volunteers 
in local communities where our employees live and 
work, aiming to improve the lives of people through 
education and community service. 
Veterans and Reservists Network  
The P&G Veterans and Reservists Network helps  
the Company attract and retain high-performing 
U.S. military veterans and reservists. In addition, they 
help enable fast starts through mentorship and build 
a positive environment through volunteering and 
community support.
83Awards & Recognitions
Forbes Best Employers for Diversity (U.S.)
William Gipson named to Black Enterprise’s Top 
Executives in Corporate Diversity (U.S.)
Diversity Inc. Top 50 Companies for Diversity (U.S.)
National Organization on Diversity’s 2018 Leading 
Disability Employer Award (U.S.)
Best of the Best by National Business Inclusion 
Consortium (U.S.)
100% on Disability Equality Index Best Places to Work 
for Disability Inclusion (U.S.)Top Supplier Diversity Program, DiversityComm/US 
Veterans Magazine (U.S.)
Disability Smart Inclusive Service Provider Award (UK)
Diversity Challenge by Charta der Vielfalt (Germany)
Premios Fundación Diversidad/Alares (Spain)
Canada’s Best Diversity Employer 2018 (Canada)
84Gender Equality
We aspire to build a better world for all of us — inside 
and outside P&G; a world free from bias and with  
equal voice and equal representation for all individuals. 
A world where everyone sees equal. We know that 
gender equality contributes to stronger economies, 
healthier communities and thriving businesses. 
We are focusing on three areas where we can have 
the greatest impact: leveraging our significant 
voice in advertising and media to tackle gender 
bias; removing gender-biased barriers to education for girls and economic opportunities for women 
through our corporate programs and policy 
advocacy efforts; and creating an inclusive, gender-
equal environment inside P&G — and advocating 
for gender-equal workplaces beyond P&G — where 
everyone can contribute to their full potential.
In each of these areas, we partner with highly-
engaged organizations that share our commitment 
and where we can combine our resources, talents 
and skills to have a bigger impact.
85HIGHLIGHTS
Busting Workplace Myths 
and Opening Minds
In January 2018, a thought-provoking exhibit arrived at 
the small Alpine town of Davos, Switzerland during the 
annual World Economic Forum. This Women at Work: 
Myth vs. Reality interactive exhibit dispels the gender 
“myths” that get in the way of women’s representation and 
advancement in the workplace. It’s designed to expose 
and challenge the myths that hold women back from 
achieving 50/50 representation at all levels of management, 
changing the way we think and talk about women and 
creating a new narrative that will accelerate progress. The 
Women at Work exhibit is appearing at additional events 
across the world, continuing to open minds and challenge 
outdated thinking.
86HIGHLIGHTS
Sesame Street Muppets  
Fuel Girls’ Aspirations
Chamki is a vibrant 5-year-old girl Muppet who lives on 
Galli Galli Sim Sim, the Indian version of Sesame Street. The 
Growing Up Chamki series airing on TV in India explores 
issues of gender equity in child-relevant ways, with girls 
and boys role-playing different careers and family roles. 
P&G partnered with Sesame Workshop to produce the 
episodes and make them available to Sesame Street 
co-productions around the world, aiming to set a new 
expectation that values girls’ education equal to boys' —  
so that both boys and girls can reach their full potential. 
Sesame Workshop and P&G also launched an advocacy 
campaign featuring a 60-second video promoting girls’ 
education and gender equality. This video launched on 
the Kwesé TV network in ten countries throughout Sub-
Saharan Africa, airing more than 1,000 times, and has 
been viewed more than two million times on social media. 
P&G will continue to support Sesame Workshop, local 
educators and producers in developing engaging, inspiring 
female Muppet characters around the world. From Zari in 
Afghanistan to Chamki in India, Lola in Latin America, Kami 
in South Africa and Raya throughout Sub-Saharan Africa 
and South Asia, the girl Muppets have become the most 
popular characters among girls and boys alike.
87HIGHLIGHTS
P&G Commits $100 Million to 
Women-Owned Businesses 
Outside the U.S.
When women have the tools to fully participate in the 
economy — through increased access to training, loans, 
credit, economic literacy and more — they build businesses, 
and we see entire communities transformed. P&G has 
made women’s economic empowerment a priority and 
developed a program supporting women entrepreneurs 
across our supply chain, from suppliers to distributors to 
agencies primarily in the U.S., but now we’re expanding the 
effort. In October 2017, we made a commitment to spend 
$100 million with Women-Owned Businesses (WBEs) 
outside the U.S. over three years. In December 2017, we 
joined with U.N. Women and Sharjah’s ruler to host the first 
Women’s Economic Empowerment Summit held in the 
Middle East, driving awareness about the importance of 
active intervention and long-term advocacy. P&G developed 
a customized training program targeting the private sector 
to help guide businesses on how to get started with WBEs. 
This, combined with other interventions, helped jump-start 
a new generation of women entrepreneurs. And we’re proud 
to report that the 3-year, $100 million goal was surpassed in 
less than one year. 
P&G’s pledge to spend $100 
million with Women-Owned 
Businesses outside the 
U.S. over three years was 
surpassed in just one year.
88HIGHLIGHTS
Using Our Voice
To use our voice in advertising to help eliminate bias and 
promote equality, we announced at the 2018 Cannes 
Festival of Creativity an industry-wide aspiration to get 
to 100% of ads and media accurately portraying women 
and girls along with specific steps to get to 50/50 
equality in creative directors and other production roles. 
We’re partnering with #SeeHer and the U.N. Women 
Unstereotype Alliance, investing to expand Free the Bid 
and supporting content created by and for women — with 
partners like Katie Couric Media and The Queen Collective.
Gender-equal ads perform 26% higher in sales growth 
according to the same #SeeHer study. Some of P&G’s 
best-performing brands have the most gender-equal 
campaigns such as Always Like A Girl and SK-II Change 
Destiny — demonstrating that equality is a force for good 
and a force for growth. 
89HIGHLIGHTS
Generation of Firsts
Our Always brand continues to tackle societal barriers 
for women around the world and in April launched 
the campaign “Generation of Firsts,” which celebrates 
Saudi women achievers. With this campaign, Always is 
supporting women to embrace being the first to achieve 
a career ideal that had been traditionally challenged. The 
film was made with not only an all-Saudi cast and crew but 
an all-female  Saudi cast and crew including the director, 
producer, cinematographer and full production team.
The film was viewed more than 1.5 million times and 
generated a social media flurry with more than 1,000 stories, 
pictures and videos of Saudi girls proudly posting what they 
had accomplished.
The Always campaign 
“Generation of Firsts” 
celebrates Saudi women 
achievers, inspiring 
consumers to share their 
own stories.
90HIGHLIGHTS
Men Advocating  
Real Change™
At P&G, we believe that the requisite skills to succeed 
as leaders in 2018 and beyond include the ability to be 
empathetic and inclusive. Given the critical role men play 
in advancing women and to achieving gender equality, 
we have partnered with Catalyst on their MARC™ (Men 
Advocating Real Change) initiative. Through this effort men 
better understand the impact stereotypes, unconscious 
bias and male-dominant culture have on women’s career 
progression. In less than two years, MARC workshops have 
reached almost 800 P&G managers across more than 15 
countries. And by inviting other Fortune 500 companies to 
join our P&G-hosted workshops, several companies have 
been inspired to launch their own MARC initiatives.
91Gender  
Equality
92Message from  
Carolyn Tastad
“At P&G, we want a world free from bias—a world with equal voice 
and equal representation for all individuals. 
We believe in gender equality. Equality for women of all races, LGBT+ 
women, women of high and low economic status, women with 
disabilities, with more and less education—in however individuals 
define themselves. We’re making progress, but there is more to do. 
This past year, we made a conscious choice to look deeper into 
understanding why women are so massively underrepresented 
in the top levels of companies, of governments, of industries 
everywhere. The answer, at least in part, is that society continues 
to operate with a set of outdated assumptions—or myths—about 
women that hold them back. We’ve all heard the clichés that feed 
these myths: Women question and doubt themselves. Women 
dread confrontation. It’s hard for women to master their emotions. 
They lack ambition. 
Women bump up against the notion that it’s their own behavior or 
style that holds them back. We know this is false. We need to create 
a new narrative—we need to unlearn the myths and replace them 
with the reality that we see every day. Women are highly effective 
leaders. That’s what we believe at P&G.”
Carolyn Tastad  
Group President,  
North America
93Using Our Voice
Generation of Firsts
Our Always brand continues to tackle societal barriers 
for women around the world. Saudi Arabia is at the  
cusp of transformation as Saudi women are coming into 
their own, challenging expectations in careers and at 
home. In April 2018, Always launched the “Generation 
of Firsts” campaign, which celebrates Saudi women 
achievers. Through this campaign, Always is supporting 
women to embrace being the first to achieve a career 
ideal that had been traditionally challenged. The film  
was made with not only an all-Saudi cast and crew, 
but with an all-female  Saudi cast and crew—an 
unprecedented undertaking.
The film was viewed more than 1.5 million times and 
generated a social media flurry with more than 1000 
stories, pictures and videos of Saudi girls proudly 
posting what they were the first in their families  
to accomplish.
Brand Campaigns Champion  
Gender Equality 
Ariel France  
By highlighting the important role parents play in  
role modelling, this Ariel ad challenges the idea that 
laundry is a woman’s job. French authorities have  
called it “the first time that an ad explicitly points  
to sharing responsibilities in the home. It is an  
evolution of our society.”Joy Japan  
In Japan, while 60% of married couples today have 
careers, 90% of household work is performed by women. 
“Sharing the housework – job to JOY” encourages family 
members to talk about sharing chores and uses male 
and female perspectives to tell a compelling story.
Olay North America 
From being told they are “too emotional” to “too 
ambitious,” women constantly face conflicting 
expectations for how they should look, feel or behave. 
An Olay campaign is ready to put an end to that by 
encouraging women to “Face Anything”.
Olay China  
Olay is encouraging all women to be fearless about their 
age, using meaningful numbers instead of years to tell 
their story: “59”, for instance, because she has won 59 
championships, or “8”, because she has been a singer 
for 8 years.
We are using our brand 
advertisements to change 
cultural perspectives about 
gender norms around the world.
94Using Our Voice
Sesame Street Muppets Fuel  
Girls’ Aspirations
Chamki is a vibrant, five-year-old girl Muppet on Galli 
Galli Sim Sim, the Indian version of Sesame Street. 
Chamki loves school and dreams of becoming a scientist 
one day. The Growing Up Chamki series airing on TV in 
India explores issues of gender equity in child-relevant 
ways, with girls and boys role-playing different careers 
and family roles. This teaches girls and boys alike that 
they can aspire to be anything they want to be. 
P&G partnered with Sesame Workshop to produce the 
episodes and make them available to Sesame Street 
co-productions around the world, aiming to set a new 
expectation that values girls’ education, so that both 
boys and girls can reach their full potential. Empowering 
girls is critically important because they face barriers 
boys do not. Early marriage, gender discrimination, lack 
of adequate sanitation and differences in how parents 
value education for girls versus boys often keeps girls 
from enrolling and staying in school.
Sesame Workshop and P&G also launched an advocacy 
campaign featuring a 60-second video promoting 
girls’ education and gender equity. This video aired 
more than 1,000 times on the Kwesé TV network in ten 
countries throughout sub-Saharan Africa and has been 
viewed more than two million times on social media.P&G will continue to support Sesame Workshop, local 
educators and producers in developing engaging, 
inspiring female Muppet characters around the 
world. These characters appeal to both children and 
adults, and they encourage audiences to respect girls, 
appreciate their diverse likes and dislikes, advocate for 
their education and support their dreams—planting 
the seeds for societal change. They are often able to 
challenge stereotypes in ways that human characters 
could not, without threatening or disrespecting cultural 
norms. From Chamki in India to Zari in Afghanistan and 
Lola in Latin America, these, and other girl Muppets, 
have become the most popular characters among girls 
and boys alike.
95Using Our Voice
Always Increases Efforts to Help 
Keep Girls in School
Girls in many parts of the world don’t have access to 
sanitary pads, causing them to miss school during their  
period. Always has been helping the most at-risk girls 
with access to pads for more than 10 years through 
initiatives like the Always Keeping Girls in School 
Program in Africa. When Always learned, in early 2018,  
that there were still a significant number of girls in  
developed countries missing school because of lack of 
access to period products, the team expanded their  
efforts by launching programs like the #EndPeriodPoverty  
campaigns in the UK, U.S. and Canada. 
The campaigns have been critical in raising awareness 
and sparking conversation around the issue, as well as 
providing access to products for girls in need. To date, 
more than 25 million pads have been donated through 
these campaigns. Similar campaigns will continue to 
be rolled out in other countries in the coming year. 
These programs are just one way Always is helping to 
champion girls’ confidence by keeping them in school 
and focused on reaching their full potential. Queen Collective Inspires  
Female Filmmakers
Legendary artist Queen Latifah is helping to accelerate 
gender and racial equality behind the camera by 
creating U.S. distribution for films produced by diverse 
female directors. The Queen Collective—a program 
developed in partnership with Queen Latifah, Tribeca 
Studios, P&G and other partners—issued a call for 
women directors of color to submit a treatment for an 
original short documentary. Brittany “B.Monét” Fennell 
and Haley Elizabeth Anderson were chosen as winners 
and participated in a mentorship session hosted by 
Tribeca Studios. They will make films with financing and 
distribution support from the Queen Collective. 
The Always Keeping Girls 
in School program in Africa 
has expanded to include 
#EndPeriodPoverty campaigns  
in the UK, U.S. and Canada.Partnered with Queen 
Latifah and Tribeca Studios, 
P&G is distributing films 
produced by diverse  
female directors.
96Making an Impact
P&G Commits $100 Million to 
Women-Owned Businesses  
Outside the U.S. 
When women have the tools to fully participate in 
the economy—through increased access to training, 
loans, credit, economic literacy and more—they build 
businesses, and entire communities are transformed. 
P&G has made women’s economic empowerment a 
priority and developed a program that supports women 
entrepreneurs across our supply chain, from suppliers to 
distributors to agencies. 
While initially conducted primarily in the U.S., the 
effort has been expanded. In October 2017, P&G 
committed to spend $100 million with Women Owned 
Businesses (WBE) outside the U.S. over three years. In 
December 2017, P&G joined with UN Women and the 
ruler of Sharjah to host the first Women’s Economic 
Empowerment Summit in the Middle East, driving 
awareness about the importance of active intervention 
and long-term advocacy. P&G also developed a 
customized training program targeting the private 
sector to help guide businesses on how to get started 
with WBE. Combined with other interventions during 
the summit, this helped jump-start a new generation of 
women entrepreneurs. We’re proud to report that the 
three-year, $100-million goal was surpassed in less than 
one year. Mexico, Nigeria, Malaysia, Spain 
Champion Women Entrepreneurs
P&G Mexico and P&G Nigeria partnered with 
WEConnect International to develop 20 female 
entrepreneurs in each market by providing a multi-
session training course, tailored to meet local market 
needs. P&G experts and external speakers facilitated 
the sessions to develop participants’ business strategies 
and skills in areas such as marketing, sales, finance and 
leadership. At the end of the course, the entrepreneurs 
were able to present their pitches to representatives 
from P&G Purchases to receive valuable feedback. P&G 
and WEConnect will continue to make more economic 
opportunities available through high-value training 
sessions in additional markets. 
Initiated in 2015, Ibo Nakhoda Hidup is a collaborative 
program between P&G Malaysia, top retailer MYDIN, 
and the non-governmental organization WOMEN:girls. 
This program aims to help mother entrepreneurs 
(mompreneurs) not only generate household income 
but to also pursue their dreams of running a successful 
small business. Every year, five winners are selected for 
funding and special support opportunities in branding, 
business strategies and given access to machinery and 
equipment to bring their business to the next level. As 
of 2018, the program has received 600 submissions 
from mompreneurs from 10 states across Malaysia, 
generating more than $90,000 of support.P&G Spain partnered with Womenalia, a network of 
more than 280,000 professional women, and retailers 
Arenal, Marvimundo and Primor to enhance economic 
opportunities for women through the launch of “Sigue 
Adelante” (Keep Going) grants. This year, grants were 
given to three women entrepreneurs to launch their 
businesses, and they were given access to funding, 
training, mentoring and a co-working space. 
Partnered with WEConnect,  
we provide training courses 
to teach business strategy, 
finance and sales to women 
entrepreneurs.
97Making an Impact
Forward Together Toronto  
Nurtures Talent
Five years ago, P&G Canada’s internal Women’s Network 
saw an opportunity to further develop high-potential 
women in the company. P&G’s Irena Kahn, supported 
by her management, took the lead to connect with 
other large employers in the Toronto area to create a 
forum called Forward Together. The Forward Together 
conference is now an annual event, and P&G women 
who participate say they love to the dynamic guest 
speakers and the opportunity for peer mentorship and 
to share best practices across different companies. 
To date, more than 1,000 women have been touched 
by this effort, helping to grow the next generation of 
female business leaders. 
JUMP Promotes Women  
in the Workplace
JUMP is Belgium’s leading voice working with 
organizations and individuals to close the gap 
between women and men at work, in order to create 
a more equal society. In March 2018, P&G’s Belgium, 
Netherlands, Luxembourg business leader Caroline 
Thomaes, a passionate advocate for women, was asked 
to talk at the annual JUMP Conference about how P&G 
is working to create a gender equal world inside and 
outside the Company. LEAD Develops Europe’s Future 
Female Leaders
At many corporations in Europe, women have 
traditionally not been part of the retail and consumer 
goods industry, largely because of an outdated 
perception that a career in Sales means life on the road 
and a false narrative that few women can succeed as a 
corporate executive.
P&G has taken steps to drive change across the 
continent, starting with our own industry. As a 
Foundation Partner and longstanding supporter of 
the Leading Executives Advancing Diversity (LEAD) 
Network, we’ve joined forces with other corporations to 
actively attract, retain and advance women in the retail 
and consumer goods industry in Europe. LEAD serves 
as a platform for exchanging ideas and best practices 
and for inspiring others to find solutions to challenges 
they may be facing. 
At the 2017 annual LEAD Network event, P&G was 
recognized as the European CPG (Consumer Packaged 
Goods) manufacturer with the highest representation of 
female executives (32%). We are driving our partnership 
with LEAD Network through local chapters in Switzerland, 
Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Turkey and the UK.“We’re very proud of the progress we’ve 
made at P&G but there is a lot of work ahead. 
Industry collaborations like LEAD Network 
are vital for broad and sustainable progress 
towards true gender equality in business and 
society.” 
— Gary Coombe, Group President, Global 
Grooming, and former President, P&G Europe. 
P&G Belgium Supports Girls in STEM
“Greenlight-for-Girls” (G4G) is an international 
organization aimed at encouraging girls to pursue STEM 
studies. Since 2013, P&G’s R&D team in Brussels has 
been organizing science workshops for girls in order to 
educate and inspire them to pursue future careers in 
science, technology, engineering or math (STEM). The 
Brussels Innovation Center has spearheaded this effort, 
and P&G centers in Barcelona and Cincinnati have also 
adopted the initiative. Plans are underway to expand 
the effort to additional countries.
Our R&D team in  
Brussels organizes 
science workshops for 
girls to inspire them to 
pursue careers in STEM.
98Changing the Culture
Busting Workplace Myths and 
Opening Minds
We are working to create an inclusive, gender-equal 
workplace—within P&G and beyond. While progress 
has been made, women are still underrepresented at 
the top levels of most companies. One reason is that 
society continues to operate with a set of outdated 
assumptions about women in the workplace.
In January 2018, the thought-provoking exhibit Women 
at Work: Myth vs. Reality was displayed at Davos, 
Switzerland during the annual World Economic Forum. 
The interactive exhibit dispels the gender “myths” 
that get in the way of women’s representation and 
advancement in the workplace. The brainchild of P&G 
and Seneca Women, a global leadership community, 
the exhibit is designed to expose and challenge the 
myths that hold women back from achieving 50/50 
representation in all levels of management, changing 
the way we think and talk about women and creating 
a new narrative to accelerate progress. The Women 
at Work exhibit is appearing at additional events and 
gatherings across the world. Men Advocating Real Change™
At P&G, we believe that the requisite skills to succeed 
as leaders in 2018 and beyond include the ability to be 
empathetic and inclusive. Given the critical role men 
play in advancing women and in achieving gender 
equality, we have partnered with Catalyst on their 
MARC™ (Men Advocating Real Change) initiative. 
Through this effort men better understand the impact 
that stereotypes, unconscious bias and male-dominant 
culture have on women’s career progression. In less 
than two years, MARC workshops have reached almost 
800 P&G managers across more than 15 countries, 
with plans to expand further in 2019. Several other 
Fortune 500 companies, invited to join the P&G-hosted 
workshops, have been inspired to launch their own 
MARC initiatives.
“For me, MARC boldly started a dialogue with 
myself and other male colleagues about 
what we assume to be normal (but it is not), 
how much business culture is built on male 
culture, and the privilege I had in belonging 
to the dominant culture from the beginning 
of my career.” 
— Giorgio Siracusa, Vice President, Human 
Resources, P&G EuropeIn less than two years, MARC 
dialogue workshops have reached 
almost 800 P&G managers across 
more than 15 countries.
At P&G, we’re challenging 
the myths that hold women 
back from achieving equal 
representation in the 
workplace.
99Changing the Culture
#WeSeeEqual Forums Held in NA, 
Europe, Asia 
Notable advocates for Gender Equality headlined 
P&G-hosted events in 2018 to share inspiring stories 
and galvanize P&G’s efforts to build a world free from 
gender bias. Award-winning journalist Katie Couric, 
former White House Executive Director for the Council 
on Women & Girls Tina Tchen and others energized 
employees, industry partners and government 
representatives in P&G’s Cincinnati, Geneva and 
Singapore offices, inspiring attendees to become 
advocates for change within the workplace and in  
their communities. P&G Manufacturing Site Embraces 
Equality
P&G’s Hyderabad plant was one of the first manufacturing 
sites in India to aggressively hire and support women 
across the workforce. In an unprecedented move, the  
site collaborated with the government to receive approval  
to allow women to work across shifts. To facilitate 
this, P&G arranged the necessary support, including 
providing special secure transport for women and 
inclusive onsite health and wellness programs. 
Engagement sessions were held during recruitment 
with candidates, their parents and the entire Hyderabad 
Leadership Team to communicate our commitment 
to safety, security and meaningful long-term careers. 
Female employees now work across all shifts and have 
the opportunity to operate manufacturing equipment. 
Implementing these changes has created tremendous 
response during hiring drives and has provided a roadmap 
for sustaining women over the course of their careers.
Our Hyderabad plant in India 
expanded their transportation 
and health support to enable 
women to work across all shifts.
P&G’s Sue Kyung Lee brought together 
advocates for Gender Equality to share 
stories and inspire action within their 
communities in Singapore.
100Gender Equality Partners
Achieving a world free from gender bias is not work that 
any one individual, NGO, government or company — no 
matter how committed — can tackle alone. In all of 
our Gender Equality focus areas — leveraging our 
voice in advertising, removing barriers to education 
and economic opportunity and achieving 50-50 
representation within our Company — we partner with 
highly-engaged and effective organizations that share 
our commitment. 
We are inspired and proud to work with our partners 
to combine our resources, talents and skills to have a 
broader and bigger impact.
101Awards & Recognitions
Carolyn Tastad, Alex Keith and Fama Francisco named 
to Fortune’s Most Powerful Women (Global)
NAFE Top Companies for Executive Women (U.S.)
Working Mother Best Companies for Working Mothers 
(U.S.)
Empowerment of Women Bronze Award, Pinnacle 
Group Global CSR Awards (Global)
Working Mother Best Companies for Multicultural 
Women (U.S.)
Top 10 company – best gender equality practices 
(Colombia) 
Total E-Quality award (Germany)
Gary Coombe recognized as a male champion for 
Women in Business, 2018 Agents of Change Power List 
(UK)
102Environmental Sustainability
Building on our legacy of environmental leadership, we have made significant progress 
against our 2020 goals for climate, water and waste — having achieved several of them 
already — and have set new, ambitious environmental goals for 2030 that will enable and 
inspire positive impact. These goals seek to address two of the world’s most pressing 
environmental challenges: finite resources and growing consumption. 
103HIGHLIGHTS
Ambition 2030
We’ve made strong progress against our 2020 goals 
and the time was right to raise the bar. So this year we 
launched our new 2030 goals — Ambition 2030 — aimed 
to enable and inspire positive impact while creating 
value for consumers and our Company. These goals 
focus on where we know we can make the biggest 
positive difference — our brands, our supply chain, 
society and our employees. 
People know us through our brands, and we will use 
the power of our innovation and our brands to delight 
consumers and drive positive impact. In our supply 
chain, we will reduce our footprint and strive for 
circular solutions. We can impact society by creating 
the right partnerships that enable people, the planet 
and our business to thrive, and this includes finding 
solutions so that none of our packaging finds its way 
to the ocean. And finally, we will tap into our greatest 
resources, our employees, so that they are engaged 
and equipped to build sustainability into their daily 
work and our communities. 
104HIGHLIGHTS
A Power Play
Our energy team has worked hard to deliver renewable 
onsite projects like a combined heat and power 
biomass facility in Georgia and offsite partnerships 
like our wind farm in Texas that have put us on track to 
deliver our current targets. Building off their progress, 
we’ve stepped that up for 2030. We’ve agreed to 
purchase 100% renewable electricity and will do this in 
North America by 2020 and globally by 2030. We have 
also committed to reduce scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions by 50% by 2030, using 2010 as a baseline. 
This science-based target aligns with climate science, 
and it will help us do our part to reduce the impact of 
climate change. 
P&G will purchase 100% 
renewable electricity in 
North America by 2020 
and globally by 2030.
105HIGHLIGHTS
A Sea of Change
We understand what’s happening to the world’s oceans, 
so that is why we have included a plastics pledge in our 
Ambition 2030 goals. We are looking at holistic solutions 
that will make it possible that no P&G packaging finds 
its way to the ocean. We are reducing the plastic we use, 
increasing recycled content and the recyclability of our 
packaging, and leveraging innovation and partnerships 
to help stop the flow of plastic into our oceans. Our 
brands are bringing this to life:
Limited-edition H&S and Fairy bottles in several 
European countries contain recycled beach plastic. 
Almost 100% of the packaging used in Charmin, Puffs 
and Bounty is recyclable. Lenor introduced post-
consumer resin into transparent sizes in Europe and 
enabled the use of 3,100 tons of recycled plastic in 2017. 
P&G is reducing the plastic we use 
and increasing recycled content and 
the recyclability of our packaging.
106HIGHLIGHTS
Partnering for Change
We know that no one company can do this alone and 
believe that collaboration will be critical to driving positive 
change at scale. We’ve had some initiatives that we’ve been 
able to bring to life with our partners. For example, we 
worked with TerraCycle and Tesco to provide one lucky 
school in the UK with a playground made with recycled 
plastic. In Italy, we worked with Carrefour to create a 
sustainability campaign around beach litter that enabled 
shoppers to help choose which beach to clean by providing 
a donation with purchase. In Japan, Febreze partnered with 
TerraCycle and a national retailer to encourage shoppers to 
bring in used Febreze car air fresheners to their local shops 
for recycling. These collections were recycled into raw 
materials used to manufacture safety reflectors which  
were donated to schools  — a great example of bringing  
the circular economy to life.
Febreze, along with our 
partners TerraCycle and Tesco, 
gave schools in the UK a 
chance to win a playground 
made from recycled plastic.
107HIGHLIGHTS
That’s Not Garbage
Our production sites are well on their way to reaching our 
goal of sending zero manufacturing waste to landfill by 
2020. In fact, approximately 85% of our production sites 
have successfully qualified as Zero Manufacturing Waste to 
Landfill sites. So how does this happen? It all starts with 
changing the mindset to see waste not as waste, but as 
worth. Around the world, our employees have changed 
their everyday behaviors, partnering with our Global Asset 
Recovery Purchases (GARP) team to think of creative and 
innovative ways to find new life for our materials. So 
instead of sending those suds that don’t meet our specs to 
the landfill, we sell them to carwashes. The scraps from 
some of our fem care products become cat litter. Old 
shipping drums are repurposed into artistic waste bins, 
school benches and tree containers. And there is a double 
benefit — we create a more circular supply chain by 
avoiding the landfill while also getting revenue for this 
would-be waste. Since the program started in 2008, it has 
saved the Company more than $2 billion and has helped 
divert five million tons of waste from the landfill.
85% of our plants 
have achieved our  
2020 goal of sending  
zero manufacturing 
waste to landfill.
108Environmental  
Sustainability
109Message from  
Shailesh Jejurikar
“This year, we took a major step in renewing our commitment to 
environmental sustainability. In April, we launched new, ambitious 
goals for 2030 that focus on where we know we can make the 
most meaningful difference—our brands, supply chain, society and 
employees. We’ve already achieved many of our 2020 goals, and 
we’re committed to stay on track so we can deliver the remaining 
goals. However, achieving these goals is not enough. We know our 
stakeholders want and expect more. With our global reach, our 
understanding of the five billion people we serve and our innovation 
and supply chain capabilities, we have a unique ability to drive 
positive impact in the world. We can be a force for good and a force 
for growth, but we know we cannot do this alone. We will partner 
with consumers, industry, governments, civil society groups and 
academics so that, together, we can make an even greater impact.”
Shailesh Jejurikar  
President, Global Fabric Care  
and Brand Building Organization, 
Global Fabric & Home Care,  
and Executive Sponsor,  
Global Sustainability
110 
Ambition 2030VISION AND PROGRESS
BRANDS
Use the power of 
innovation and our brands 
to delight consumers and 
drive positive impactSUPPLY CHAIN
Reduce our footprint and 
strive for circular solutionsSOCIETY
Create transformative 
partnerships that enable 
people, the planet and our 
business to thriveEMPLOYEES
Engage and equip P&G 
employees to build 
sustainability thinking and 
practices into their work and 
their communitiesAmbition 2030 aims to enable and inspire positive impact on the environment and 
society while creating value for the Company and consumers. Our Ambition 2030 
goals span our brands, our supply chain, society and our employees. We know P&G 
alone does not have all the answers. It will take partnerships and collaboration to 
make meaningful progress and take responsible consumption to the next level.
111 
2020 Environmental Goals Progress
Numbers are representative of progress since 2010CLIMATE
Reduce truck transportation kilometers by 20%  
per unit of production
Achieved — reduced kilometers by more than 25%Reduce energy use at P&G facilities by 20% per unit  
of production by 2020
Achieved — 22% reduction per unit of production
Achieved — 100% third-party certifiedHave 100% of the virgin wood fibers used in our  
tissue/towel and absorbent hygiene products  
be third-party certified by 2015
We have developed the ability to substitute our top 
petroleum-derived raw materials (resins, cleaning  
agents and acrylates) with renewable materialsCreate technologies by 2020 to substitute top  
petroleum-derived raw materials with renewable  
materials as cost and scale permitWe continue to advance progress against our 
three-pillar strategyImplement palm oil commitments
69% of loads are low-energyEnsure 70% of machine loads are low-energy cyclesReduce absolute GHG emissions by 30% by 2020
We have reduced absolute GHG emissions by 21% 14% of energy is from renewable sourcesEnsure plants are powered by 30% renewable energyVISION AND PROGRESS
112 
2020 Environmental Goals Progress
Numbers are representative of progress since 2010WATER
WASTEAchieved — 25% reduction per unit  
of production700 million people with access to water-
efficient productsProvide 1 billion people with access to  
water-efficient productsReduce water use in manufacturing facilities by 20%  
per unit of production with conservation focused on  
water-stressed regions
Ensure 90% of product packaging is either recyclable or 
programs are in place to create the ability to recycle it
We have achieved 86% and have strong, ongoing 
effort to further increase recyclabilityConduct pilot studies in both the developed and  
developing world to understand how to eliminate  
landfilled/dumped solid waste 
We continue to make progress implementing  
a variety of pilot projects with external partnersReduce packaging by 20% per consumer use
We have reduced packaging by approximately 
13.5% per consumer useDouble use of recycled resin in plastic packaging
We used approximately 38,100 metric tons of 
PCR in our plastic packaging, getting us 46% 
of the way to our goal100% zero manufacturing waste to landfill by 2020
85% of our manufacturing sites are ZMWTLHave 100% of our paper packaging contain either recycled  
or third-party-certified virgin content by 2020
98% of the volume reported by our suppliers was  
either recycled or third-party-certified virgin contentVISION AND PROGRESS
113 
Environmental Progress 
vs. 2010 BaselineVISION AND PROGRESS
21% absolute reduction
30% reduction per  
unit of production22%  reduction per  
unit of production  
(exceeding goal early)
5% absolute reduction81% reduction in solid 
waste with 85% of our 
sites achieving zero 
manufacturing waste  
to landfill
79% absolute reduction25%  reduction per unit  
of production (exceeding  
goal early)
16%  absolution reductionCurrently 14%  of our  
total energy comes from 
renewable sources21% 22% 81% 25%
30% 5% 79% 16%14%GHG Energy Waste Water Renewable EnergyWithin our operations we strive to grow responsibly, constantly improving our 
efficiency while reducing our footprint. Global production has increased since 2010, 
however we have successfully decoupled that growth from our environmental 
footprint, achieving both absolute and production-adjusted reductions in waste,  
water, energy and GHG emissions.
114Brand Stories
Head & Shoulders 
We launched the Head & Shoulders Beach Bottle in  
France in June 2017 to a positive reception. The bottle is  
made with 25% recycled plastic collected from the beach  
and has received broad recognition as a significant 
innovation in sustainability, including the United 
Nations’ Momentum for Change Award. With this 
consumer and commercial success, Head & Shoulders 
expanded this innovation to Germany, Spain, Turkey  
and Israel and plans are in place for further expansion.
Fairy
Fairy Ocean Plastic bottles were launched in Europe  
this year in partnership with TerraCycle. It was designed 
to raise awareness of ocean plastic pollution and what 
can be done to prevent plastic waste from reaching  
the ocean. The innovative bottle is made from 10% 
ocean plastic, collected from the ocean and beaches 
around the world and is 100% recyclable (excluding  
cap and label). Bounty 
Bounty delivers more life per roll by providing superior 
absorbency and strength. When people choose Bounty, 
they can do more with less and make a sustainable 
difference because 100% of the wood fiber used to make 
Bounty paper is from responsibly managed forests.
Puffs 
Puffs provides soothing comfort to noses in need.  
Puffs are made from softwood and hardwood fibers 
that were produced to meet international standards  
for responsible forestry.
Charmin
Charmin is soft and strong and lasts longer because 
people can use less Charmin Ultra Soft and Charmin 
Ultra Strong than the leading bargain brand. All 
Charmin tissue products are made from wood fiber 
which has been third-party certified to responsible 
forestry standards, so you can confidently Enjoy the  
Go and support healthy forests.
Our Fairy Ocean Plastic bottle 
is made from 10% ocean 
plastic and 100% recyclable 
(excluding cap and label).100% of the wood fiber 
in Bounty rolls is from 
responsibly managed 
forests.
115Brand Stories
Downy and Lenor – Long Live 
Fashion Formula
When it comes to your clothes, it’s our business to clean 
and our passion to care—for clothes and the planet. We 
want to help people take the best care of the clothes 
they love, so we can collectively reduce the impact 
clothing has on our planet. We found that by caring 
for clothes with what we call “the long live fashion 
formula”—using a high-quality liquid or PODs like Ariel, 
washing in quick and cold cycles and conditioning with 
Downy or Lenor—we can quadruple the clothes’ life.  
In Europe, we tested a typical household laundry basket 
with this treatment vs. using a competitive powder at 
a 40 °C cycle and found that we could keep clothes like 
new for 4x longer than with the alternative treatment. 
To drive awareness of this within the fashion industry, 
we attended the Copenhagen Fashion Summit (CFS). 
Bert Wouters, VP for the Fabric Enhancer Franchise 
globally, emphasized to the audience the impact each 
of us can make by using the right laundry procedure. He 
shared compelling information, including the fact that if 
Europeans extended the life of one in five garments by 
just 10%, that would translate to saving enough carbon 
to power half a million homes for a year and more than 
150 million liters of water from slower-paced clothing 
production. Hand-Me-Downy
In North America, millions of tons of clothing are sent 
to landfills each year. One of the major reasons this 
happens is because clothes aren’t well cared for, and 
they wear out too soon. To help keep clothes in closets 
and out of landfills, Downy encouraged Canadian 
families to swap clothes their kids had outgrown 
through the first “Hand-Me-Downy” program. Downy 
sent Canadian families kits to host their own clothing 
swaps, including invitations and bottles of Downy to 
protect the clothes they love so they can be worn and 
handed down, not worn out and thrown out. Through 
the swaps, each family received ‘new to them’ clothes at 
no cost, and every article of clothing found a new home, 
proving that caring for clothes is better for wallets and 
the environment!
Oral-B
Oral-B wants to help put some power in your 
toothbrush while also helping the planet. Our power 
brushes have a long lifecycle and are often used by 
consumers for up to five years before being replaced. 
Electrical brushes use rechargeable batteries as a 
source of energy and enable a much higher product 
performance versus disposable batteries. This results in 
longer lifecycle and less waste. Since July 2017, Oral-B 
has extended its range of products featuring Lithium 
Ion batteries which significantly increase the lifecycle of 
the brushes. These batteries are built into most Oral-B 
power brush models, from the Pro-2000 to our most 
premium Genius brushes.Using Ariel with quick, cold cycles 
and conditioning with Downy or 
Lenor were proven to keep clothes 
like new for 4x longer.
116Circular Supply Chains
Circularity has always been a part of our 
ongoing conservation and environmental 
footprint reduction efforts within water, 
waste and renewable energy. However, as 
we look toward the next decade, we are 
committed to be both a force for good and 
a force for growth. As part of that vision, 
we have embraced the need to create a 
more circular end-to-end supply chain. To 
achieve this, we will need to start thinking 
differently about the incoming materials, 
manufacturing work process, distribution, 
and transport of our products. Circularity is 
not only the right thing to do, it also helps 
make our operations more efficient and 
resilient.
We have established specific targets that we intend  
to achieve by 2030:
1. 100% renewable electricity and cut GHG emissions  
in half at P&G sites
2. P&G sites will deliver a 35% increase in water 
efficiency and source at least five billion liters  
of water from circular sources
3. Advance at least 10 significant supply chain 
partnerships to drive circularity on climate,  
water or wasteTo learn new methods, find creative partners and to 
accelerate our circular journey, we recently joined 
the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Circular Economy 
100 working group. The Circular Economy 100 is a 
pre-competitive innovation program established to 
enable organizations to develop new opportunities 
and realize their circular economy ambitions faster. 
It brings together corporations, governments and 
cities, academic institutions, emerging innovators and 
affiliates in a unique multi-stakeholder platform.
Part of our 2030 vision is making a 
more circular, end-to-end supply 
chain to improve efficiency and 
reduce waste.
117Climate
We recognize the scientific consensus  
linking greenhouse gas emissions and 
climate change. As a global citizen, we are 
concerned about the negative consequences 
of climate change and believe action by 
governments, industry and consumers 
to reduce emissions to the atmosphere is 
necessary. We are committed to doing our 
part to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
including adopting science-based targets to 
ensure we are contributing our fair share.
We are striving to reduce emissions from our own 
operations via increased use of renewable energy and 
have a relentless focus on energy efficiency. We are also 
helping consumers reduce their own emissions through 
our efforts to convert more machine-washing loads to 
low-energy cycles.
In 2018, we further strengthened our long-term 
commitment by announcing two new goals as part  
of our Ambition 2030 framework:
• We will reduce our Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions by 50% on an absolute basis by 2030 (vs. 
2010 baseline). This is our second science-based target 
and complements our initial science-based target of a 
30% reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 2020.
• We will purchase 100% renewable electricity in North 
America by 2020 and globally by 2030. These targets 
will further advance our efforts to increase our use of 
renewable energy.Please click on the links below to learn more about  
our climate change efforts:
For more information, read our climate change policy.
For additional perspective on climate change 
implications that could be relevant for the Company 
and the steps we are taking to address them, please 
download our climate change perspective document.
We will reduce our Scope 1 & 2 
greenhouse gas emissions by 
50% by 2030.
118Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions
In 2018, we made another significant step on our 
journey to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
with the announcement of Ambition 2030. We have 
committed to cutting our absolute GHG emissions in 
half between 2010 and 2030. This was verified by the 
Science Based Targets Initiative as a goal that is in line 
with what leading climate scientists state is necessary 
to prevent global warming from increasing two degrees 
Celsius versus pre-industrial era temperatures. We are 
members of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Climate 
Savers program and worked in collaboration with WWF 
to develop this key milestone target.
Cutting our Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions in half is a 
stretching target, and there is a great deal of work  
to do. The foundation of our program will continue 
to reside in improving energy efficiency. However, 
efficiency improvements alone will not be sufficient to 
achieve an absolute 50% reduction as we continue to 
serve the needs of a growing consumer population.  
To meet this target, as part of our Ambition 2030 goals, 
we have committed to obtain 100% of our purchased 
electricity from renewable sources by 2030. Moving to 
renewable sources of electricity will eliminate most of 
our Scope 2 emissions.-18%
-21%-22%
FY16/17
FY15/16FY17/18Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/1 0,
production adjusted
FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other4.3
4.74.7FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Energy Consumption by GBU
Millions of gigajoules
61
5960
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherFY16/17
FY15/16FY17/18Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
-14%
-14%-21%
Our move to purchasing 
100% of our electricity 
from renewable sources 
will eliminate most of our 
Scope 2 emissions.P&G has retained Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance 
(LRQA) to provide independent verification of our  
GHG program to ensure it meets the intent of the  
World Resources Institute/World Business Council  
for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD)  
GHG protocol. 
119Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Scope 3 GHG Emissions
Over the last two years, we have expanded our 
estimates for Scope 3 emissions to include all major 
reporting categories. This updated data is included in 
the table to the right. We derived this data from lifecycle 
assessments that we have completed for our major 
categories as well as other sources such as employee 
travel miles. This exercise reinforced that the “use phase” 
of our products, especially those that use hot water 
during consumer use, is our single greatest opportunity 
for Scope 3 emissions.
As noted in the table, some data was derived in FY15/16 
and was based on Life Cycle Assessment data. We do 
not expect large changes in these numbers from year 
to year, and it is clear from the data that the product 
use phase is the overwhelming majority of Scope 3 
emissions. We intend to update Scope 3 emissions in 
next year’s report. Scope 3 Categories Tons CO2e
Purchased goods and services — upstream 
transport & distribution8,560,000*
Capital goods 246,508†
Fuel & energy activities 495,398†
Waste generated in operations 9,035†‡
Business travel 100,000*
Employee commuting 117,412†
Upstream leased assets Not material
Downstream transport & distribution 3,195,000*
Processing of sold product Not material
Use of sold product 186,500,000*
End of life treatment of sold product 10,950,000*
Downstream leased assets Not material
Franchises Not material
Investments Not material
*FY15/16 estimate 
†FY16/17 estimate 
‡Scope limited to material sent to landfill
120Renewable Energy
We continue to look for unique global 
projects and partnerships that will allow us to 
source 30% of our total energy, both thermal 
and electric, from renewable sources by 2020. 
Currently 14% of our energy comes from 
renewables, and we are on track to meet our 
2020 target.
As part of our new Ambition 2030 we have set a 
stretching new vision of purchasing 100% renewable 
electricity by 2030 for our global facilities. To jumpstart 
this program, our team is looking to reach 100% 
renewable electricity in North America by 2020 (10 
years ahead of our global commitment). North America 
is P&G’s largest consumer market. Purchasing 100% 
renewable electricity will allow our consumers to know 
that the brands they have come to know and trust for 
superior performance and value are also being made  
at sites that purchase 100% renewable electricity.Our wind farm in Texas (which provides 100% of the 
electricity needed for our Fabric and Home Care 
facilities in the U.S. and Canada to produce brands 
like Tide, Downy, Cascade and Mr. Clean) and an onsite 
combined heat and power biomass facility in Georgia 
(which provides 100% of the steam needed to make 
Bounty and Charmin) continue to remain the shining 
stars of our renewable energy program. These large-
scale partnerships, along with multiple smaller global 
onsite/offsite projects utilizing solar, geothermal and 
hydro, have provided key learnings and the foundation 
for our vision to use 100% renewable energy.
The biomass facility in 
Georgia provides 100% of 
the site’s steam needed to 
make Bounty and Charmin.P&G will use 100% 
renewable electricity  
by 2020.
121Energy Conservation
We continue to make solid progress in 
reducing our energy footprint. We have 
improved energy efficiency by 22% since 
2010, achieving our 2020 goal several  
years early.
The strengths of our energy program rest on three  
key strategies:
1. Operating with zero losses or defects
2. Investing in new technologies to improve efficiency 
and deliver savings
3. Leveraging Total Employee Ownership
We have an Energy Team that delivers tools and 
systems integrated with our manufacturing work 
systems to reduce losses and continuously improve 
operating efficiency. We continue to focus on enabling 
our people to identify and quickly eliminate losses 
in energy consumption. We are also benchmarking 
efficiencies internally and externally to determine where 
we can invest in new technologies to improve base 
operating efficiencies. It’s because of these efforts we 
have improved energy efficiency by 22% since 2010 
which has resulted in hundreds of millions of dollars in 
direct savings and reduced emissions. 
A good example of how we bring this to life is at our 
Louveira plant in Brazil. The plant expanded the 
loss elimination culture by creating a Sustainability 
Committee that targeted consumption, reduction 
and responsibility in each footprint area including 
energy. The team is made up of employees across all 
departments and uses the power of Total Employee 
Involvement to speed up identification, quantification and solutions. Because of the dedicated focus of 
the team, they were able to analyze data from their 
operations and implement several projects improving 
their efficiency. This includes improvements in shutdown 
practices, roof materials, integrated cooling system 
controls, vacuum system improvements and drive 
system efficiencies. Overall, the site has increased 
energy efficiency 51% since FY 09/10.
Energy Success Stories
Mechelen Plant, Belgium  
Another example of these focused efforts can be seen 
at our Mechelen plant in Belgium. The site energy 
team developed an action plan to improve the energy 
efficiency of making automatic dish washing pods 
delivering a 22% reduction vs. the same six month 
period the previous year.
The key areas where they drove efficiency 
improvements were regular air leak and defect audits, 
improved production throughput, focused shutdown 
practices and improved process settings on their air 
handling systems.
“Our site continues to produce high quality 
product to delight consumers with a reduced 
environmental impact, contributing to the 
conservation of natural resources.” 
– Niels Jacobs, Site Energy Leader
Baddi Plant, India  
We installed an innovative new heat pump at our 
Gillette blades and razors plant in Baddi, India. This 
allowed the site to save money and exceed goals on 
energy efficiency improvements and GHG reductions. Amiens Plant, France  
At our Amiens site in France, where we produce our 
Ariel, Lenor and other Fabric Care products, we installed 
electric heat pumps to provide indoor heating and 
eliminated the need for additional steam generated 
from fossil fuels. Because this plant uses 100% 
renewable electricity, the electric heat pumps help 
reduce our GHG emissions.Our Louveira plant in Brazil improved 
their efficiency reducing emissions and 
saving millions of dollars.
122Low-Energy Washing
The energy used during the machine 
washing of laundry is one of the biggest 
impacts on our corporate GHG emissions 
footprint and, as such, we have been focused 
on innovating to enable consumers to get 
clean clothes using less energy. Our goal is 
to have 70% of all global washing machine 
loads done in low-energy cycles by 2020. 
This year, we are at 69% thanks to consumer 
habit changes in machine technology and 
innovation that gets clothes clean in cold 
conditions.Innovating to Get Clean in Cold 
We continued to innovate all our detergent formulas 
for best performance in low-energy cycles. In North 
America, this year we further increased sales of Tide HE 
Turbo, which is specifically designed to perform well 
in the strongly growing segment of HE machines and 
shorter washing conditions. 
We introduced a new enzyme into our Tide detergents 
that we co-developed with Novozymes. This amylase 
enzyme is specifically designed to work well in low 
temperatures—meaning it can work quickly to attack 
tough stains in even the coldest washing conditions. 
More than 40 specialized scientists from around the  
globe worked for nearly two years, applying leading 
techniques in enzyme optimization, including 3D  
computer modeling, advanced data analytics and  
high throughput robotic systems to evaluate hundreds 
of thousands of enzyme molecules. This process 
continued until the team finally identified a winning 
enzyme that could perform in both cold and quick 
conditions. “Arctic,” as this enzyme is named, is 
inspired by the frigid and challenging conditions of the 
arctic waters and tundra. Arctic is a fast and efficient, 
biodegradable cold-water enzyme, making it perfect  
for use in Tide.Our goal is to have 70% of all 
washing machine loads done 
in low-energy cycles by 2020.
We partnered to create a 
new enzyme specifically 
designed to work well in 
low-temperature washing.
123Low-Energy Washing 
Steps in the Right Direction
With a strongly growing high-efficiency washing 
machine segment in North America, we focused 
particularly on ensuring that HE machine users have 
the best possible outcome in energy-efficient cycles 
through Tide HE Turbo Clean and education on the use 
of quick and cold cycles.
We also continued to grow and support our plant- 
based laundry detergent, Tide purclean, which offers 
great cleaning performance even at low temperatures. 
Tide purclean is USDA-certified bio-based and has 4x 
the cleaning power of the leading natural detergent.1 
Due to its ‘no compromise performance’, it was recently 
awarded the Environmental Leader’s Product of  
the Year.
Ariel has been at the forefront of driving consumer 
behavior change when it comes to washing at cold 
temperatures with our long-running ‘Turn to 30⁰’ 
campaign. It was why, this year, Ariel partnered with 
WWF UK to encourage people to make a promise for 
the planet in line with Earth Hour. People were asked to 
make one of seven pledges to protect the planet, one of 
which was “turn down washing temperatures to 30⁰.” 
For every pledge made with #PromiseForThePlanet 
and #EarthHourUK, Ariel donated one euro to WWF 
UK. Across March and April, the campaign reached 
more than 326 million people, and WWF UK saw more 
than 58,000 pledges made across the country. Almost 
a quarter of these pledges were to turn down washing 
temperatures to 30 °.As in previous years, we continue to partner with top 
washing machine manufacturers globally to help 
educate consumers about the benefits of quick and 
cold water washing cycles and will again reach about  
18 million households next fiscal year.
We believe low-energy cycles are not only a win for 
the environment but a win for consumers, since colder, 
shorter cycles mean saving on energy bills and reducing 
damage to clothes from long, high-temperature cycles. 
While there will always be some loads washed at higher 
temperatures, we expect the trend towards more 
energy-efficiency cycles to continue over the coming 
years. Given that, we will remain focused on enabling 
consumers to adopt more sustainable, low-energy 
washing habits without compromising on the clean 
they need. 
1  One dose Tide purclean vs. four doses leading natural 
detergent.
Our “Turn to 30°” campaign 
asked people to make 
pledges to turn down 
washing temperatures to  
30° to reduce their energy 
consumption. 
124Renewable Materials
We are continuing our efforts to develop 
the ability to replace our top fossil-derived 
materials with renewable materials. We 
have identified cleaning agents, resins and 
acrylates as our top fossil-derived materials. 
We have previously reported on establishing 
our ability to replace resins and cleaning 
agents with renewably-derived materials.  
We have now established this capability  
for acrylates. 
Acrylates are a key constituent of the superabsorbent 
materials used in our absorbent hygiene products. We 
have developed two technologies to produce renewable 
superabsorbent polymers from lactic acid which have 
identical properties as fossil-derived superabsorbent 
polymers. These patented technologies have been 
demonstrated at lab scale, and we are currently seeking 
to license these technologies to external parties with 
hopes of enabling production and commercialization  
at scale.
Now that we have achieved our goal, we will look for 
opportunities to utilize these materials as cost and 
scale permit. Two examples of our use of bio-resin are 
highlighted to the right.Tampax and Pampers  
Tampax recently launched a 90% plant-based plastic 
tampon applicator on its Cotton Comfort line in France 
and Pure & Clean line at Target (U.S.). This innovative 
material is made from sustainably-sourced sugarcane 
from our supplier Braskem® in Brazil. P&G also sources 
this bioplastic for use in Pampers Pure. The sugarcane 
is converted into ethanol and eventually into plastic 
utilizing a by-product from the rest of the plant to 
provide some of the energy needed to fuel  
this process.
The sugarcane is certified to the Bonsucro® standard, 
which has a mission to ensure that responsible 
sugarcane production creates lasting value for people, 
communities, businesses, economies and ecosystems. 
Also, the “I’m Green™” bioplastic production processes 
are certified by International Sustainability and Carbon 
Certification (ISCC Plus), an international certification 
system for biomass and sustainable fuels that sets 
specific production standards. 
The sustainable innovations in Tampax and Pampers 
to include sustainably sourced bio-materials supports 
our 2020 goal to “develop the capability to replace 
petroleum-derived raw materials with renewable 
materials as cost and scale permit.” The use of 
sustainable bio-polyethylene from sugarcane is the 
result of years of research and partnership with World 
Wildlife Fund, the Bioplastic Feedstock Alliance and 
other research partners. 
After years of research, 
Tampax and Pampers  
use sustainably sourced  
bio-polyethylene from  
sugarcane.
125Reduce Packaging By 20% Per 
Consumer Use
Our goal is to reach 20% reduction per consumer use 
in packaging, and this year we were able to achieve 
a slight increase of 0.5% against our goal despite 
significant external headwinds impacting our results. 
We have now achieved a reduction of 13.5% vs. our 2010 
baseline. The primary challenge we face in this area 
is customer requests for smaller case counts which 
require an increase in our use of corrugate (shipping 
boxes). Corrugate is renewable, has a high recycle 
content and is recycled at a high rate—all of which help 
to mitigate impacts from increased use of corrugate. 
While we are proud of the significant reduction in 
packaging we have achieved so far and will continue  
our efforts to reduce even further, current headwinds 
are such that it will be very difficult for us to achieve  
our original target by 2020.
Double the Use of Recycled Resin in 
Plastic Packaging
We have committed to double the use of recycled 
resin in our plastic packaging. This year, we used 
approximately 38,100 metric tons of post-consumer 
resin (PCR) in our plastic packaging, which represents 
an increase of approximately 46% vs. baseline. Our goal 
is to get to 52 kiloton of recycled resin, and we have 
identified several projects that we believe will help 
us deliver our goal. We are currently working with our 
business units to ensure we have adequate time to 
execute the needed projects by 2020.Ensuring 90% of Our Packaging is 
Recyclable or There Are Programs 
In Place to Develop the Ability to 
Recycle It
For FY17/18, 86% of our packaging is considered 
recyclable, and we are working hard to continue 
to optimize the designs and advance the recycling 
infrastructure. We continue to expand many of our 
brand programs, including the shrink sleeve wrap for 
Lenor in the UK and Air Care recyclability program 
with TerraCycle, for example. A new program was 
announced this year, Materials Recovery for the Future, 
that has the potential to introduce new materials into 
the recyclability stream. We are also encouraging 
consumers to increase recycling of our packaging by 
expanding use of the How2Recycle label across our 
brands in North America.
During FY17/18, our use of plastic packaging was 
approximately 55% polyethylene, 15% polypropylene and 
10% PET. The remainder consisted of mixed and other 
plastics. During FY18/19, we will continue our efforts on 
the goals listed above and will be developing additional 
perspective on our use of plastics which we will share in 
our next report.Packaging
86% of our packaging is 
considered recyclable.
126Packaging
Materials Recovery for the Future
We are taking a leadership role working in collaboration 
with other brands, retailers and recyclers on a research 
pilot called Materials Recovery for the Future (MRFF). 
The goal of the pilot is to test the technical and 
economic feasibility of adding lightweight flexible 
plastic packaging formats to municipal recycling so that 
one day consumers can simply place this packaging in 
their curbside recycling with other recyclables. In 2016 
and 2017, we studied how flexible plastic packaging 
flows in a recycling system, what equipment is most 
efficient to sort it and what products could be made 
from the recycled material. We also selected a recycling 
facility partner—JP Mascaro Sr. and his team at 
TotalRecycle, a state-of-the-art, family-owned business 
in Berks County, PA serving municipalities throughout 
the state. 
In 2018 and 2019, we will continue to work with our 
MRFF partners and JP to upgrade TotalRecycle to sort 
and bale this packaging as a new recycled feedstock 
for product manufacture. The data will be available 
for other communities and facilities interested in 
upgrading their facilities to recycle flexible packaging.Pantene Success Story
P&G’s Eastern European Team delivered exceptional 
value via partnership with the Beauty Care Business 
Unit to reduce waste and improve recyclability. The 
team replaced plastic gift set trays with pulp trays that 
were not only made of recycled paper but are also fully 
biodegradable. This innovation allowed P&G to increase 
our use of recycled fiber while saving 48,000m3 of 
water and 960,000 kW of electricity.
Researchers and P&G’s Steve 
Sikra sort through packaging 
to be recycled.
Our new pulp gift set trays are  
made of recycled paper and are  
fully biodegradable.
127Responsible Forestry 
Forests are critical to earth’s ecosystem 
and to the plants, animals and human 
communities that depend of them. The 
world’s forests hold the potential to mitigate 
some of the most important threats we 
face, such as climate change, but they 
remain under pressure from population 
increases and economic demands. One of 
the easiest ways to counteract threats to 
forests is by looking for and purchasing wood 
products which are sourced from responsibly 
managed forests and tree plantations.We have maintained our commitments to ending and 
reversing deforestation by sourcing wood products 
certified to leading international forest certification 
standards. Earlier this year, we announced new near- 
and long-term commitments, included in our Ambition 
2030 goals, to protect and enhance the forests we 
depend on. Specifically, we intend to increase the area 
of certified forests globally, while working to strengthen 
leading certification systems. In addition, we will play  
a leadership role in developing a collaborative science- 
based Forest Positive approach that supports sustaining 
and expanding working forests that we and others 
depend on. 
Although we do not own or manage commercial 
forests, many of our products and packages are 
dependent on raw materials from forest-based supply 
chains. Therefore, we play a key role through our 
procurement and manufacturing practices to ensure 
the sustainability of the world’s forest resources.
Wood pulp for tissue/towel and absorbent hygiene 
products, wood fibers used in paper packaging, and 
palm oil for our laundry and beauty products are 
strategic commodities where our sourcing practices 
have the greatest impact on ensuring responsible use of 
the world’s forest resources. Each of these materials has 
a different supply chain and their unique complexities 
led us to develop individual programs as described in 
the following sections.We are striving to protect 
and enhance the forests  
we depend on.
128Responsible Forestry 
Wood Pulp Supply Chains
Procurement Policy  
As part of our procurement practices, we require that 
all wood used for pulp supplied to us has undergone 
a risk assessment in accordance with the Forest 
Stewardship Council® (FSC®) Controlled Wood standard. 
The FSC Controlled Wood risk assessments ensure that 
unwanted wood sources are avoided and that wood 
harvesting is done legally per our procurement policy. 
We have a preference for FSC, which makes use of both 
FSC Chain of Custody (FSC COC) and Controlled Wood 
(FSC CW) inputs. 
We require that the forest certification systems utilized 
by our wood pulp suppliers adhere to the following 
criteria for responsible forest management:
• Ensure the safety of forestry and manufacturing 
operations for employees and the environment.
• Ensure that unwanted wood sources are avoided 
and that wood is legally harvested and that all legal 
requirements are met. P&G will not knowingly use 
illegally sourced materials in our products.
• Ensure that their supply chain incorporates the 
principles of responsible forest management and 
continuous improvement in their own operations and 
that they are verified by independent forest and chain-
of-custody certification.• Ensure that trees are not harvested from high-
conservation-value forests unless they are credibly 
certified to the most rigorous forest management 
standards. P&G supports multi-stakeholder efforts to 
develop information sources and tools that will help 
suppliers identify these areas on their own forestlands 
and in their procurement of wood raw materials from 
third parties (e.g. www.hcvnetwork.org ).
• Ensure that there is no sourcing from genetically 
modified trees in pulp delivered to us.
• Ensure that their own and their supplier practices 
reflect our social values and support of universal 
human rights through work with local governments 
and communities to improve the educational, cultural, 
economic and social well-being of those communities.
• Ensure that their supply chain used to produce our pulp 
does not contain fiber from conflict timber (timber 
that was traded in a way that drives violent armed 
conflict or threatens national or regional stability).Third-Party Certification  
100% of the virgin wood pulp we purchase for use 
in our tissue/towel and absorbent hygiene products 
is third-party certified by one of our accepted forest 
certification programs. 
We give preference to FSC® certified pulp when it is 
available and meets product performance and business 
requirements. FSC certification protects water, wildlife 
and local people by ensuring forests are responsibly 
managed. FSC standards are recognized worldwide as 
the most stringent forest management certification 
scheme and are supported by leading international 
environmental NGOs.
Based on the market availability of certified pulp,  
P&G’s supply chain will also source from other third-
party forestry certification systems. They include:
• Programme for the Endorsement of Forest 
Certification (PEFC)
• Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI)
• Brazilian Forest Certification Programme (CERFLOR)
• Canadian Standards Association (CSA) Group
• Sustainable Forest Management System (SFM)
We prefer FSC certified pulp 
because the certification 
ensures forests are 
responsibly managed.
129Responsible Forestry 
Pulp for Our Tissue/Towel and 
Absorbent Hygiene Products
In fiscal year 17/18, we purchased 1.5 million metric tons 
of air-dried pulp for use in our tissue/towel, diaper and 
absorbent hygiene products. The pulp was sourced 
from the following countries and used the following 
third-party certified fiber:Working Together to Make  
a Difference
P&G is a proud participant in World Wildlife Fund’s 
(WWF®) Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN), a 
corporate forum for supporting responsible forest 
management and forest product sourcing.
Many of our projects and activities are inspired by our 
commitments as participants in GFTN such as:
• Continuing to implement our preference for FSC 
certification, including overall volume increases  
in FY17/18. 
• Continuing support for efforts to expand group 
certification for family forest owners in the U.S.  
with Domtar.
• Progress in the Coastal Carolinas landowner  
outreach project.
• P&G’s efforts at Tissue 2017 Conference & Expo to 
convene discussions with other companies and  
NGOs about sustainable forestry and Caribou  
issues in Canada. FSC Group Certificate Support
In 2016, P&G met with the Four States Timberland 
Owners Association (FSTOA), led by Domtar, to discuss 
expanding the amount of timberland that is under 
forest management certification.
Together, we are committed to lowering the technical 
and financial hurdles to increasing forest certification 
in family-owned forests through Domtar’s FSTOA FSC 
group certificate.
Our participation supported the growth in certified 
lands, and we continue to support the operation and 
expansion of the association. The FSTOA is now working 
towards having 600,000 acres of timberland under FSC 
group certification.
We are a proud 
participant of WWF’s 
Global Forest & Trade 
Network, working with 
partners that support 
responsible forest 
management.Country of Origin % of Total
Argentina 1%
Brazil 34%
Canada 33%
United States 32%
Total 100%
Certification System % of Total
FSC COC 37%
FSC CW 7%
PEFC 30%
SFI 26%
Total 100%
FSC COC — FSC Chain of Custody 
FSC CW — Controlled WoodP&G’s Charmin toilet tissue 
and Puffs facial tissue 
products are FSC certified 
by Rainforest Alliance.
130Responsible Forestry 
Carolinas Working Forest 
Conservation Collaborative Update
In May 2016, we helped launch the Carolinas Working 
Forest Conservation Collaborative (CWFCC), a collection 
of organizations led by the American Forest Foundation 
working together to help family forest owners manage 
their land sustainably.
The current project area consists of 5,946,494 acres, 
almost three times larger than our original goal of 
2.4 million acres. Because of the early success of the 
program, all the original goals have been expanded. 
For example, the project is now looking to reach 
out to almost four times as many forest owners and 
directly engage twice the number of forest owners in 
workshops and field days to increase knowledge of 
forest stewardship and practices.
We are pleased with the early success of the program 
which enjoys the direct support of more than 20 leading 
international, national and regional conservation 
organizations.
Paper Packaging
We continually strive to optimize the design of our 
packaging aiming to use the least amount of material, 
while ensuring adequate protection, delivery and safe 
use of our products. As part of our ongoing efforts, we 
continue to identify source reduction opportunities 
to decrease overall material usage and to use recycled 
paper when it offers the best option to meet 
performance and business requirements.
Our paper-based packaging is derived from wood fiber, 
and we have a responsibility through our procurement practices to ensure that the wood fiber in our packaging 
has been responsibly sourced. We have made a specific 
commitment that by 2020, 100% of our paper packaging 
will contain either recycled or third-party-certified 
virgin content. Over the last year, we have expanded 
our efforts to collect data from an increased number of 
suppliers to assess progress against this goal. This year, 
we have received data from more than 100 suppliers 
that represent more than 95% of our global paper 
packaging spend. This data, which was self-reported  
by our suppliers, is summarized in the following table:
This year, 98.5% of the volume reported by our  
suppliers was either recycled or third-party-certified 
virgin content. That means less than 2% of the reported 
volume was virgin material that was not third-party-
certified. We also experienced a 12% reduction in the 
total metric tons because of initiatives to reduce our 
overall use of paper board. Over the course of the next 
years, we will remain focused on working with our 
suppliers to get to our goal of 100%.Total volume in metric tons ~700,000
% Recycled 85%
% Virgin 15%
% of virgin fiber that was  
third-party-certified91%
% of total recycled or  
third-party-certified virgin98.5%By 2020, 100% of our paper 
packaging will contain either 
recycled or third-party-certified 
virgin content. 
131Palm Oil
Palm Oil (PO) is an important, versatile and 
highly efficient vegetable oil that is used as 
a raw material by both food and non-food 
industries. In some regions of the world, 
the rapid expansion of PO production has 
threatened environmentally sensitive areas 
of tropical forests and peat lands and has 
resulted in incidents where the rights of 
independent smallholder farmers and 
indigenous peoples have been infringed.
We are committed to ensuring that our sourcing of 
palm oil does not contribute to deforestation and 
respects the rights of workers and indigenous peoples. 
We are members of the Roundtable on Sustainable 
Palm Oil (RSPO) and support their standards to drive 
responsible palm practices across the industry. In 
addition, we have established a robust approach to 
ensuring the responsible sourcing of palm-derived 
materials which includes supplier management, 
improving lives of smallholders and industry influence.Palm Oil Procurement Policy
P&G is committed to ensuring our suppliers meet  
RSPO Principles and Criteria (P&C) and have the 
necessary policies and procedures in place to ensure:
• No development of high-conservation-value (HCV) 
areas and high-carbon-stock* (HCS) forests
• No new development of peat lands regardless  
of depth
• No burning to clear land for new development  
or replanting
• Compliance with P&G’s existing Sustainability 
Guidelines for External Business Partners
• Respect for human and labor rights
• Respect for land tenure rights, including rights of 
indigenous and local communities to give or withhold 
their free, prior and informed consent for development 
of land they own legally, communally or by custom.
All of our suppliers have submitted their relevant 
policies and procedures to demonstrate how they will 
meet our requirements. If we find a supplier is violating 
any of the above requirements, and if that supplier 
does not acknowledge and take action to resolve 
the concern, P&G will suspend or eliminate palm oil 
purchases from that supplier. A supplier would need 
to have a documented action plan and demonstrate 
meaningful progress to be considered for reinstating 
supply agreements.
*The High Carbon Stock Approach (HCSA) Toolkit should be 
applied to identify and conserve HCS forests. We have been 
supporting inclusion of HCSA to the 2018 RSPO P&C and are 
expecting to incorporate the revised P&C for verifying our 
commitments.
We are working with our 
palm oil suppliers to ensure 
responsible sourcing.
132Palm Oil
Progress
During FY17/18, key milestones included:
Greatly increased transparency of our supply chain by 
publishing both palm oil supplier names and a detailed 
list of the palm oil mills in our supply chain.
Maintained 100% RSPO certification for palm oil/palm oil 
derivatives and continued to make progress in our  
efforts to source 100% of our palm oil as RSPO Segregated 
(SG) by the end of 2018. We remain on track to hit that 
goal and are developing plans to procure 100% of our 
palm oil derivatives as RSPO SG by the end of 2020.
Completed a comprehensive palm oil mill risk assessment 
to understand which palm oil mills in our supply chain 
are located in areas considered to be high-risk. Roughly 
~7% (~90 mills) were found to be in high-risk locations, 
and during FY18/19 we will focus on developing 
additional verification programs for these sites. 
Continued to play a leadership role in multi-stakeholder 
discussions seeking to advance a consensus 
approach to assessing High Carbon Stock areas via 
our participation in the High Carbon Stock Approach 
Steering Group.Announced a major commitment as part of our Ambition 
2030 program to significantly scale our smallholder 
program which is focused on improving the livelihoods 
of the smallholder farmers in our supply chain.
Explored key drivers of land use planning to help us 
prioritize our efforts. You can read key learnings from 
that exercise here. 
You can read more about the detailed progress in each 
of our three pillar areas by clicking on the links below.
This year, we seeked to gain 
a better understanding of 
drivers of land use planning 
within the palm industry.
133Palm Oil
Pillar I: Supplier Management
Palm Oil  
We use ingredients derived from palm oil and palm oil 
derivatives in Beauty Care and Fabric Care products. 
Our major PO and POD suppliers are Wilmar, Golden 
Agri, Musim Mas and Apical. 
We are proud of our progress on palm oil and are on 
target to deliver 100% RSPO SG palm oil by the end of 
2018. We’re also developing plans to move our palm oil 
derivatives to RSPO Segregated (SG) by the end of 2020. 
Until that time, we will maintain our palm oil derivatives 
to be RSPO Mass Balance (MB) Certified. Our ability 
to achieve that may be influenced by broader market dynamics and supply availability, but we have already 
engaged with our suppliers on plans to achieve this goal. 
This is consistent with our belief that it is the demand 
for palm oil that is driving forest conversion and peat land pressures, and the greatest impacts can be 
achieved by industry placing a disproportionate focus 
on driving sustainable palm oil production practices 
across all categories and regions that use palm oil. 
Palm Kernel Oil
We use ingredients derived from palm kernel oil and 
palm kernel oil derivatives in some Fabric Care, Home 
Care, Hair Care and Beauty Care products.
Thanks to a unique partnership with the Malaysia 
Institute for Supply Chain Innovation and FGV, our 
single largest PKO supplier, we have gained significant 
visibility to the sourcing plantations and regions of 
FGV’s PKO supply chain. In fact, we now know that 
about 96% of our palm kernel oil was sourced from a 
known subset of FGV’s palm oil mills. FGV is currently 
on a glidepath to re-certify their mills which voluntarily 
withdrew their RSPO certification in 2016. As FGV 
progresses their recertification efforts, our percentage 
of RSPO MB certified PKO will increase. This glidepath should drive our RSPO certification levels for a year-on-
year increase in certified PKO. Given the complexity of 
the PKO supply chain and a lack of supply of physically 
certified PKO, our commitment is to work with our PKO 
suppliers to aggressively drive year-on-year increases in the percent of physically certified RSPO PKO we buy. 
We are also focusing our smallholder efforts on our PKO 
supply chain as we know we have a large concentration 
of smallholders in our Malaysian PKO supply chain. You 
can read more about those efforts here:Metric  
Tons*RSPO  
Certified (%)RSPO MB  
Certified (%)
Palm Oil/Palm Oil Fractions 55,834 100% 94%
Palm Oil Derivatives 64,263 100% 95%
Metric  
Tons*RSPO  
Certified (%)RSPO MB  
Certified (%)
Palm Kernel Oil 317,796 5% 5%
Palm Kernel Oil Derivatives 72,164 0% 0%*This represents the total volume of PO and PO derivatives purchased by P&G. Approximately 95% of this is used internally by P&G 
brands. The remaining 5% is sold to external parties through our P&G Chemicals division
*This represents the total volume of PKO and PKO derivatives purchased by P&G. Approximately 65% of this is used internally by P&G 
brands. The remaining 35% is sold to external parties through our P&G Chemicals division
134Palm Oil
Pillar I: Supplier Management
Risk Assessment and Verification 
We expect all suppliers (including their third parties) 
to fully comply with our Responsible Sourcing policy 
and will act swiftly to address any allegations of non-
compliance. To help inform our efforts on verification of 
compliance, in FY17/18, we conducted a risk assessment 
using the PALM Tool (Version 2: Updating the PALM Risk 
Assessment Methodology. Sargent et al., publication 
forthcoming) on the World Resources Institute’s (WRI)  
Global Forest Watch Pro (GFW Pro) to identify palm 
oil mills in our supply base that are at a high risk based 
on presence of deforestation risk factors in the area 
surrounding the mill. We assessed 1269 mills and 
identified ~90 (~7%) as high risk. The majority of these  
(>85%) were third party mills used by our direct suppliers.Focus Areas for FY18/19 
Concession Maps: We believe that increased 
transparency on concession maps is an important 
part of enabling verification and holding suppliers 
accountable for any violations of their palm policies. We 
require all direct suppliers to be RSPO members. As a 
result, they are required to publish concession maps for 
their own lands. In FY18/19, our objective is to work with 
our direct suppliers to have concession maps of indirect 
third-party suppliers also published. As a first step, we 
have asked our suppliers to identify any existing barriers 
to the publication of concession maps so that we can 
work with our suppliers and other relevant stakeholders 
to find solutions for those barriers.
Verification: We will focus our verification efforts on 
sourcing areas characterized as high risk per our palm 
oil mill risk assessment process. We will work with 
relevant suppliers to ensure verification of Responsible 
Sourcing requirements for high risk locations. As a 
first step, we will assess the sufficiency of current 
verification process of all suppliers. Based on those 
findings, we will develop a glidepath and process for 
verification of high-risk locations in consultation with 
relevant suppliers to ensure we have an optimized 
process that avoids duplication of effort.
This year, we conducted a 
risk-assessment on all 1,269 
palm oil mills in our supply 
base to identify mills at a high 
deforestation risk.
135Palm Oil
Pillar II: Smallholders Program
As per our Ambition 2030 announcement, we have 
committed to significantly scale our smallholder 
program. The objective of this program is to improve 
the livelihood of smallholders while verifying production 
practices to meet our sourcing criteria. The program 
focuses on the independent smallholders and small 
growers in our PKO supply chain that supply fresh 
fruit bunches (FFB) to FGV mills in Malaysia. There are 
approximately 30,000 smallholders supplying up to 
90,000 mT of PKO into this network, and our target  
is to enable these smallholders to be at or above the 
national yield average.
Pilot Results  
In FY15/16, we partnered with Wild Asia and Proforest 
to develop the capability and capacity of smallholders 
and collection centers in two project sites in Parit Raja 
and Benut, both located in the western part of the State 
of Johor, Malaysia. The two project sites covered seven 
collection centers and 2000 smallholders.
Together with our project partners, we have developed 
the P&G Responsible Sourcing Criteria Scorecard for 
Smallholders to assess smallholders against our criteria. 
The Scorecard covered six P&G palm sustainability policies: 
• No development of High Conservation Value (HCV) 
areas and High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests
• No new development of peat lands regardless of depth
• No burning to clear land for new development or 
replanting
• Respect for human and labor rights• Respect land tenure rights, including rights of 
indigenous and local communities to give or withhold 
their free, prior and informed consent for development 
of land they own legally, communally or by custom
• Traceable supply chain
At the end of June 2018, Wild Asia, Proforest and MISI 
have assessed 560 smallholders against the P&G 
Responsible Sourcing Criteria for Smallholders. We  
will use the learnings from these initial pilots to help  
us scale our efforts. 
P&G Oil Palm Data Warehouse 
Developing full traceability to smallholder farms and 
growers is an important enabler towards ensuring 
sustainability of P&G’s complex PKO supply network. 
To achieve this, we partnered with MIMOS, Malaysia’s 
national Applied Research and Development Center,  
to develop the P&G Oil Palm Data Warehouse. The Data 
Warehouse is capable of securely storing and analyzing 
data collected by our project partners to turn them into 
useful and actionable information. The Data Warehouse 
will also be Blockchain-enabled, and we plan to test  
this with a group of smallholders and collection  
centers’ dealers.
Our initial work with MIMOS has showed that our PKO 
supply network can already be fully traceable to the 
collection centers which is one step upstream from 
the mills and one step downstream from smallholder farms and growers. A collection center (also referred 
as FFB dealers) is a place where smallholders sell their 
FFBs before being transported to mills. By developing 
traceability to collection centers, we will be able 
to utilize geospatial technology to understand the 
environmental landscape within a 10–30 KM radius 
enabling us to prioritize key collection centers for 
our smallholders program. We plan to complete this 
traceability exercise before the end of FY18/19.
We partnered with MIMOS of 
Malaysia to create a Palm Oil Data 
Warehouse to store and analyze 
data from our project partners.
136Palm Oil
Pillar II: Smallholders Program
Scaling Efforts: Development of Learning Farms 
We are partnering with International Plant Nutrition 
Institute (IPNI) in a multi-year agreement to develop up 
to 75 core innovator farms and 165 primary innovator 
farms (together termed as learning farms) by 2020 with 
the objective of improving the livelihood of smallholders 
in the P&G palm supply chain in Malaysia. The program 
will focus on our current project sites in Johor and will 
provide sustainable intensification of oil palm for  
independent smallholders in Johor, Malaysia. The 
program will focus on increasing FFB yield by enabling 
farmer access to knowledge about crop and nutrient 
best management practice.
This program has the objective of improving the yields 
by 30–50% and will drive both livelihood income and 
ensure sustainable practices in the P&G supply chain. 
Smallholder Objectives for FY18/19  
During FY18/19, we will work to achieve the following 
objectives:
1. Expand the project sites from seven to 32 collection 
centers and ~8000 smallholders in Johor and 
develop full traceability to collection centers
2. Develop the first 15 core innovator farms
3. Partner with NGOs and universities to develop 
standardized sustainability training modules and 
develop a strategy to reach and train up to 1000 
smallholdersPillar III: Industry Influence
As a member of the High Carbon Stock Approach 
Steering Group (HCSA SG), RSPO’s Principle & Criteria 
Taskforce, RSPO’s Smallholder Working Group 
and RSPO’s Human Rights Working Group, we are 
collaborating to drive harmonized industry approaches 
that can help advance shared objectives. Below are 
descriptions of some of the key collaboration areas:
No Deforestation, Peat and Exploitation (NDPE) 
Policy and the RSPO P&C 
Enhancing the RSPO Principal & Criteria (P&C) to better 
align with current NDPE policies represents a significant 
opportunity to strengthen the P&C and enable and 
accelerate industry efforts to verify NDPE compliance. 
As member of HCSA SG and RSPO No Deforestation 
Interim Group, we are actively participating in the 
collaborative effort to incorporate both HCSA and 
an approach for High Forest Cover (HFC) landscape/
countries into the RSPO P&C. Via the RSPO P&C Task 
Force and Working Groups, we are helping drive 
integration of no deforestation, no peat development 
and the broader human, labor and land tenure rights 
policies into the RSPO P&C. A revised version of the RSPO 
P&C are expected to be approved in November 2018.
 RSPO Smallholder Standard and Inclusion  
The new RSPO Smallholder Standard is critical to 
enabling the RSPO smallholder strategy issued in 
2017. As a member of the Smallholder Interim Group, 
we are contributing to developing an inclusive, 
engaging standard that will drive stepwise, supported 
improvement of practice and productivity and 
livelihood of this key supply chain sector into the 
RSPO system. We also continue to support the 13th, 
14th and 15th RSPO Roundtable Meetings in bringing 
smallholders from multiple regions to join this learning 
and sharing event. 
We are encouraged by the progress on these important 
efforts so far but recognize there is still important work 
to do. We will continue to advance the progress and 
implementation in support of our commitments and 
industry common goals.
As a member of HCSA SG 
and RSPO, we help drive 
collaboration between 
RSPO and High Forest 
Cover countries.We are working towards higher 
standards and harmony across 
the industry supply chain.
137Water
Advancing Our 2020 Water 
Sustainability Goals
As we approach the end of the decade, we are excited 
at the progress we’ve made against our 2020 water 
goals. While we’ve already announced our next decade 
of water goals, we are committed to continuing to work 
towards achieving all three of our 2020 water goals.Goal Progress
Reduce water used in P&G manufacturing 
facilities by 20% per unit of production 
versus 2010 with conservation focused on 
water-stressed regions.25% water reduction per unit of production, 
completion of Tier 2 of our Manufacturing Water  
Risk Assessment process
Provide one billion people with access to 
water-efficient products.700 million people with access
Provide 15 billion liters of clean drinking 
water to those who need it most.14 billion liters of clean drinking water
-26%
-25%-25%
FY16/17
FY15/16FY17/18Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/1 0,
per unit of production
6363
62FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Water Consumption by GBU
Millions of cubic meters
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other6363
62FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Water Consumption by GBU
Millions of cubic meters
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other21
1819FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBU
Thousands of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other*Chemical Oxygen Demand
138Water
Reducing Water Use and Focusing 
Where it Matters Most
Water is an essential input at many of our facilities 
around the world. Creating a culture of water efficiency 
at our sites has been a priority for our manufacturing 
teams for more than two decades. Thanks to the work 
of many employees across our global portfolio, we’ve 
been able to reduce our manufacturing water usage by 
25% per unit of production since 2010. We continue to 
exceed our goal of 20% reduction per unit of production 
and will keep focused on increasing efficiency into the 
next decade. 
In combination with our efficiency work, we’ve also 
continued to move through our Manufacturing Water 
Risk Assessment process which was developed in 
partnership with the World Resources Institute (WRI) 
and World Wildlife Fund (WWF). This past year, we 
completed Tier 2 of our process, which involved  
working closely with experts at Environmental 
Resources Management (ERM) to deploy, collect  
and analyze in-depth site water questionnaires at  
each of the 40 Tier 2 sites. 
After a rigorous scoring and ranking process, we  
found that 24 of our facilities are exposed to high  
water risk. These 24 facilities have been moved into  
Tier 3 of our assessment process. These facilities 
represent almost every business we operate and  
span ten unique countries.
PRIORITY SITES FROM 2
~15% of sites will complete  
the Tier 3 processALL SITES SCREENED
~70% of sites in  
lower-risk regions
PRIORITY SITES FROM 1
~30% of sites have entered  
the Tier 2 processP&G Tailored Site Questionnaire (Completed)
Prioritize sites based on outcome of responses
• The P&G questionnaire was built upon the facility 
questionnaire in WWF’s Water Risk Filter2Water Risk Screening (Completed)
Identify risk level of sites based on:
• Baseline Water Stress Score  — World Resources Institute
• Gross National Income per Capita  — World Bank
• P&G Site Water Use per Year  — P&G
• Access to Water  — WHO/UNICEF1
3In-Depth Site Water Analysis (Current Phase)
Prioritize risks for mitigation and develop site water 
stewardship plans.
• Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) International 
Water Stewardship Standard 1.0 steps 1-3.P&G Water Risk Assessment Framework
139Water
The Alliance for Water Stewardship 
(AWS) Standard
Each of the 24 Tier 3 facilities will create site water 
stewardship plans by the end of 2020. They will do this  
by following steps 1, 2 and 3 of the Alliance for Water 
Stewardship (AWS) International Water Stewardship 
Standard 1.0. This standard provides a globally applicable 
framework for major water users to understand their 
water use and impacts and to work collaboratively 
and transparently for sustainable water management 
within a basin context. The AWS Standard will help 
each site create plans that address risks both inside and 
outside their four walls. It will also help to tie site efforts 
around water to local water challenges that are being 
experienced by not only the site but also by others in 
the same basin. This year, we became a member of AWS 
and are happy to support the work they do to ensure 
consistency and credible recognition of good water 
stewardship practices. P&G Tier 3 Facilities
140Water
Pulp & Paper Water Stewardship
Water has always been an important focus at the 
manufacturing facilities that produce our Bounty, 
Charmin and Puffs products. Those sites are building 
on their long history of compliance and efficiency 
measures, to a more holistic water stewardship strategy. 
As part of this strategy, the business acted in two ways: 
1. Completed the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) 
Standard Self-Verification process for a key facility and 2. 
Embarked on a partnership opportunity with a supplier. 
The AWS Self-Verification was completed at our 
Oxnard, California facility, already known across the 
Company for its impressive water savings and water 
management strategy in a water-stressed region. World 
Wildlife Fund (WWF) guided the site through the AWS 
Standard and enabled greater understanding of risks 
and opportunities both inside and outside the plant. As 
of October 2018, the site has declared itself to meet the 
AWS global standard for water stewardship.Again, working closely with WWF, we collaborated with 
our supplier, Fibria, to collect and share our respective 
water management practices, challenges and solutions 
to help us, and others in the industry, move beyond 
compliance and efficiency towards holistic water 
stewardship. Our findings will soon be shared publicly 
so others can benefit from our experience.
Finding Circular Solutions
Our Global Fabric Care business, including brands Tide, 
Gain, Ariel, Ace and Lenor, has been working hard to 
reduce fresh water use in their manufacturing plants, 
thus reducing their impact to their local water basins. 
The various plants have identified and implemented 
solutions to reduce water use, including capturing and 
using rain water and reusing utility reject water that 
would otherwise go to the sewer. Several Fabric Care 
plants located in Mexico, Pakistan, Czech Republic 
and the U.S. have found unique circular approaches to 
beneficially reuse water from one process as feed water 
into another process.
A recent circular example is the Port Qasim plant in 
Pakistan, which is located within a water-stressed 
region. Since every drop counts, the plant looked for 
ways to reduce their absolute fresh water intake by 
reusing the water used to clean and flush holding  
tanks back into the manufacturing process.
Fabric Care continues to look for new circular water 
sources to reduce their local water impact. 
We implemented solutions to 
reduce water use, including 
capturing and using rain water 
and reusing water from one 
process into another process.
Our family care products 
are at the forefront of 
water stewardship in their 
manufacturing facilities.
141Water
Providing Consumers Access to 
Water-Efficient Products
Our goal is to provide one billion people with access  
to water-efficient products by 2020. At the end of 
FY17/18, about 700 million consumers had access to 
water-efficient products around the world. This year,  
we qualified two products that enable women to  
spend less time in the shower: dry shampoos and  
leave-on treatments. 
Dry Shampoos  
In many places around the world, the shower accounts 
for a large percent of the household’s weekly water 
use. It also adds up to precious hours of time. More 
and more women are finding ways to extend the time 
between washes. One way we’ve enabled them to do 
this is through our dry shampoos. This product enables 
consumers to go longer between washes and helps  
to refresh their hair on days they decide to skip the 
wash. 50 million people have access to dry shampoos  
in countries like China, Germany, the U.S. and the UK.Leave-On Treatments  
We’ve designed products that enable women to skip 
the rinse out conditioner step in their shower regimen. 
This allows them to reduce their time in the shower 
and save water, while still ensuring they have the silky-
smooth hair they desire. 40 million people have access 
to leave-on treatments across countries like Mexico, 
China, Brazil, the U.S and the UK.
Clean Water Through Science  
and Partnership
More than a decade ago, a P&G scientist, in 
collaboration with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, 
invented a 4-gram packet that can transform dirty 
water to clean, drinkable water in only 30 minutes. 
Today, with the help of more than 150 partners, this 
technology is delivering clean drinking water to those 
who need it most. Our goal is to provide 15 billion liters 
of clean water by 2020 through our Children’s Safe 
Drinking Water (CSDW) Program. This year, we made 
progress against this goal and have provided more  
than 14 billion liters of clean water to people around  
the world since the program began in 2004.
Our dry shampoos and 
leave-on treatments help 
consumers use water more 
efficiently.
142Waste
We have a vision that one day zero consumer 
and manufacturing waste will go to landfill. 
To help lead the way and demonstrate what 
is possible, our manufacturing sites are on a 
mission to get to zero waste to landfill now. 
Manufacturing Waste
Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landfill (ZMWTL) 
We started our Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landfill 
program in 2008. At that time, it seemed like an 
impossible dream as our 100+ manufacturing sites  
were producing more than one million tons of waste per 
year. What started as a sustainable movement, to see 
trash ‘not as waste, but as worth’ has helped transform 
the way our sites think about raw materials. Waste 
champions across our manufacturing sites and within 
our Global Asset Recovery Purchases (GARP) team 
quickly started to find beneficial uses for our waste. 
Not only helping avoid landfills but helping generate 
revenue at the same time. Since 2008, the team has 
helped save the Company more than $2 billion and has 
helped divert more than five million tons of waste from 
the landfill.
Once ~50% of our sites reached ZMWTL (less than two 
years ago), we decided to look for ways to accelerate our 
zero-waste journey, setting a stretching target that ALL 
of our production sites would send Zero Manufacturing 
Waste to Landfill by 2020. In the last two years, the 
waste team has made phenomenal progress, with 
approximately 85% of our facilities currently being 
qualified as ZMWTL, well on track to meet our 100% 
goal by 2020.-79%
-79%-81%
FY16/17
FY15/16FY17/18Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/1 0
per unit of production
40
4647FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBU
Thousands of metric tons
71
8278FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Disposed Waste by GBU
Thousands of metric tons
2
83FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Solid Waste Hazardous by GBU
Thousands of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other6363
62FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Water Consumption by GBU
Millions of cubic meters
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
143Waste
In addition to individual sites, our waste teams also 
look for ways to drive ZMWTL across entire business 
units, countries and regions. This year, our Health Care 
Business achieved 100% ZMWTL in all their production 
sites across the globe, joining Fem Care, Oral Care and 
Grooming in reaching this milestone. Furthermore, 
our Fabric & Home Care business had a very strong 
year, going from 50% to 83% of their sites receiving 
our ZMWTL certification, with 98% of their total waste 
(production volume) diverted from landfill. 
We also have two regions close to 100% ZMWTL, Europe 
and Asia, and we expect them to reach this milestone 
by this time next year. In total, we now have 26 countries 
where all our manufacturing sites have qualified as 
ZMWTL. This year, we qualified 16 more sites, and in  
the process, saved the Company millions of dollars.18
11
14
11
16
2
2
11
1FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18
FY14/15
FY13/14
FY12/13
FY11/12
FY10/11
FY9/10
FY8/9
FY7/8
FY6/7Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
Belgium
Brazil
China
Czech Republic
Egypt
France
Germany
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Ireland
Italy
Japan
MexicoNigeria
Pakistan
Philippines
Poland
Romania
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Turkey
United Kingdom
VietnamCountries that are ZMWTL
144Waste
Global Asset Recovery  
Purchases  (GARP)
Our Global Asset Recovery Purchases (GARP) program 
continues to be a great enabler in our waste efforts  
as we find innovative ways to reduce waste and  
disposal costs. 
Here are some of the innovative solutions GARP has 
implemented this year:
• Our Tepejí Plant in Mexico (Baby Care) worked with an 
external supplier to recover plastic from the diapers 
production waste and converts it into plastic pellets 
that are used as primary raw material to make items 
like buckets, brooms and other plastic-based goods.
• In China, we are beneficially re-using toothpaste as a 
component for car cleaner, and shampoo/conditioner 
is re-purposed to help clean pets.
• In Canada, our Belleville Plant (Fem Care) is converting 
our highly absorbent scrap and process waste into 
various spill mitigation products.
• In Brazil, our Baby Care Plant in Louveira is converting 
our diapers production waste into dog hygienic mats, 
and hair care and detergent production waste are 
used as a component for car washes. 
• Our Oral Care operations are converting toothpaste 
into car cleaner, toothbrushes and floss into wood 
plastic composites, and our rinse wash waste is used 
for biofermentation and plastic recycling industries.Diaper Recycling
Fater, a Joint Venture of P&G and Gruppo Angelini 
in Italy, developed a breakthrough diaper recycling 
technology that recycles used absorbent hygiene 
products (baby diapers, fem care and adult incontinence 
products) to create new products and materials of 
added value.
The technology is now live and operational at industrial 
scale able to process 10,000 tons of used absorbent 
hygiene products per year. That corresponds to serving 
around one million people. The plant is unique and 
the first of its kind in the world. We are expanding 
the technology globally to more markets such as the 
Netherlands and India, and we are studying many  
more markets.
Finding Value in Waste
Febreze, TerraCycle and Tesco partnered to give 
schools in the UK a chance to win a playground made 
from recycled plastic. Community members were 
encouraged to get involved and help their local schools 
win by voting for them in the competition. The Febreze 
Playground competition focused on raising awareness 
of the issue of waste recycling among the youngest in 
our society as well as their communities. By recycling 
waste, the project aimed to help reduce plastic litter 
from entering nature’s playground and polluting the 
planet, instead creating play areas for kids to enjoy a  
bit of fresh air everywhere. 
The competition garnered more than 65,000 votes, 
including a viral video campaign from one school 
generating more than two million media impressions. 
The recycled playground, built at Wooler First School, was made mainly with parts made from recycled plastic 
lumber from curbside recycling waste collected in the 
UK. Following its success, the program is now in its 
second year and has been expanded in partnership 
with Tesco to run across the whole household category.
Together with Gruppo 
Angelini in Italy, we developed 
technology capable of 
processing 10,000 tons per year 
of absorbent hygiene products 
to create new products.
145Waste
Collaborating to address  
Plastic Waste
Circulate Capital  
We are proud to have been a lead partner in the 
creation of Circulate Capital, a new kind of investment 
firm that leverages technology and builds infrastructure 
in South and Southeast Asia to prevent plastic from 
becoming waste in the ocean. 
Led by Rob Kaplan, co-founder of Closed Loop Partners, 
the company evolved out of the “Closed Loop Ocean” 
project, following commitments made by us and others 
at the Our Ocean Conference in Malta in October 2017 
to create financing opportunities focused on preventing 
plastic from flowing into the ocean. 
As a lead funder, we were critical to the spin-off and 
acceleration of the project which we see as vital to  
solving the ocean plastic problem. South and Southeast 
Asia have seen exponential growth and development 
over the past 10 years that has outpaced the necessary 
infrastructure. Studies have shown that significant 
reduction in plastic leakage to the ocean can be 
achieved by improving waste management and 
recycling in the five countries where Circulate Capital 
is set to deploy: India, Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand 
and the Philippines. We believe that this unique model 
will be instrumental in building the infrastructure to 
retain plastic in packaging and product supply chains 
and prevent it from entering the environment, thus 
supporting a truly sustainable and circular economy.“P&G is proud to be part of Circulate Capital. 
Just like the Closed Loop Fund, this will 
address the root cause and help develop the 
right infrastructure to drive positive change. 
Working together, we believe we can halt the 
flow of plastic into the world’s oceans.” 
– Steve Sikra, P&G Associate Director, 
Corporate R&D, Global Product Stewardship
Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR) Demand 
Champions  
We renewed our participation as an Association  
of Plastic Recyclers (APR) Demand Champion.  
The APR program is intended to:
• Strengthen and increase domestic demand for 
residential mixed plastics
• Make a public commitment to plastic recycling
• Expand plastic recycling infrastructure
• Boost a “circular economy” for plastic packaging
Along with the APR and other Demand Champions,  
we recognize a “demand-pull” is needed to drive a 
positive momentum in plastic recycling. World Oceans Day 
P&G is a major sponsor of World Oceans Day, a global 
celebration officially recognized by the United Nations 
aimed at reaching millions of people worldwide to 
become more aware, educated and actively engaged 
in creating a healthier ocean and the waterways that 
connect to it. We are also a proud founding partner of 
Youth for the Ocean, a new collaborative initiative that 
will help drive youth awareness of the importance of a 
healthy ocean and how everyone can help, including 
educating youth about plastic pollution issues 
and solutions, driving action by mobilizing a youth 
constituency to prevent plastic pollution and helping 
clean up communities and coasts and elevating coastal 
and ocean health as a political priority. 
Youth for the Ocean creates 
awareness about plastic pollution 
and how to keep oceans healthy.
146Waste
Waste to Worth
Waste to Worth is an effort to develop an integrated, 
profitable and replicable waste-management business 
model that finds value from waste. Three key pilots are 
currently under development in Angeles City, Cabuyao 
and Dagupan in the Philippines. The goal of the pilots is 
to convert more than 1,000 tons per day of solid waste 
to value. Various business models are being explored 
to extract value from waste as a means of creating 
economically viable and thus sustainable infrastructure. 
We have supported this effort with our partner, the 
Asian Development Bank, who co-funded feasibility 
studies that were critical to advancing the project. This 
year, the project made significant progress with signing 
off-take (electricity, diesel, gas) customers, permitting, 
engineering, investment and bidding for a construction 
firm to build the facilities. Ground breaking has happened 
in Dagupan with Angeles City and Cabuyao to follow in 
early 2019. The facilities are on track to deliver our goal 
to have operational pilots in place by 2020.
The Recycling Partnership
We are committed to helping consumers have access 
to strong recycling programs through our support 
of The Recycling Partnership. Today, less than half of 
recyclables in U.S. homes are recycled. We work with 
The Recycling Partnership to change this by making 
it easier for people to recycle. How? By providing 
recycling carts, educating residents on what—and 
what not—to recycle and by delivering best practices, 
expert technical assistance and free online tools to help 
communities across the country improve their recycling 
programs long-term. Through partnership, the results-driven nonprofit has 
invested more than $29 million to help around 600 
communities and more than 29 million households 
improve recycling, diverting 115 million pounds of 
recyclables from landfill. In 2017, the Partnership 
placed 182,000 recycling carts from Portland, Maine 
to Santa Fe, New Mexico. They also teamed up with 
Atlanta and Chicago to clean up the recycling stream 
in communities by decreasing overall contamination 
and joined forces with Denver to boost capture of 
aluminum cans by 25%. Across the country, more of our 
packaging is being recovered due to the activities of 
The Partnership. 
“P&G understands that we must all work 
together to transform recycling for good in 
communities across the U.S. Their continued 
support has helped us help more than 29 
million households—almost a quarter of the 
U.S. population—recycle better. We have 
much more work to do, and with P&G’s help, 
we can create a sustainable recycling system 
that is good for the economy, the planet and 
peoples’ lives.” 
– Keefe Harrison, CEO, The Recycling 
Partnership
With The Recycling Partnership, 
we have helped more than 29 
million households divert  
recyclables from landfills.
147The Power of the P&G People
Coastal Clean-ups
Singapore  
In celebration of P&G’s 30th anniversary in Singapore, 
more than 250 P&G employees set out to two locations 
along the eastern coast—Coney Island and Tanah Merah 
Ferry Terminal—to do a thorough coastal clean-up. In 
partnership with the National Environment Agency and 
Waterways Watch Society (WWS), our P&G employees 
cleared three kilometers of beach, collecting an 
outstanding 1,129 kilograms of coastal debris! 
Brussels  
Employees at the Brussels Innovation Center 
participated in an event to help clean the Belgian 
coast. In 2017, about 75 employees and their families 
participated; in 2018 more than 100 joined up during 
their free Sunday and collected 5.3 tons of garbage 
along with other volunteers. 
Cincinnati  
Nearly 100 Cincinnati employees partnered with 
Living Lands & Waters to clean the river banks of their 
hometown one steamy afternoon in September. Thanks 
to their efforts, nearly 19,000 pounds of trash were 
removed from the banks of the Ohio River, including 
more than 1,000 pounds of carpet, 810 pounds of 
random plastic, 177 tires and 150 mattresses.Madrid  
P&G partnered with Ecoembes and SEO-Birdlife under 
the Libera Project to enable a volunteer collection 
of waste in various parks and beaches in Spain. P&G 
volunteers and their families from Madrid General Office 
and Jijona Plant joined forces to restore the natural 
beauty of El Pardo Natural Park and Cala Cantalar of 
Cabo de las Huertas in Alicante. The Libera Project 
collected tons of garbage while at the same time raising 
awareness of the issue inside and outside of P&G.
Valencia  
To increase awareness around the topic, P&G and 
CARREFOUR partnered with Paisaje Limpio and 
Ecoembes to clean the Port Saplaya Beach in Valencia. 
Volunteers collected hundreds of pounds of waste. 
In addition, a roundtable was organized with the 
participation of P&G, CARREFOUR, SUEZ and TerraCycle 
to discuss the journey behind this effort and the 
importance of driving responsible consumption.
Philippines Tree Planting
Volunteers planted hundreds of flowering tree 
saplings to aid the restoration of Sitio Jordan, San 
Vicente, Sto. Tomas, Batangas in October during the 
first P&G Philippines Intersite Tree Planting Activity. 
In 2014, employees from the Cabuyao facility planted 
saplings on the same site, which are now full-grown 
trees. Thousands of sapling trees were planted by P&G 
Philippines in different locations near the Cabuyao site. 
148The Power of the P&G People
P&G China Pioneer Program 
benefited 4,000+ future 
environmental protection leaders  
in three years 
2018 is the third year of the P&G China Pioneer 
Program. We partner with a leading NGO in China, 
the China Environmental Protection Foundation, to 
provide funding, training and networking to student 
environmental protection societies in universities in 
China. This program is designed to grow future leaders 
in environmental protection. 
During the three-year first phase, Pioneer Program 
supported 80+ university societies and 117 environmental 
protection projects, benefiting more than 4,000 
university students from North and South China. 
P&G in the Arabian Peninsula teams 
with retailers to support education 
and sustainability 
P&G in the Arabian Peninsula has partnered with 
both retailers and consumers for several years to 
support causes that impact the region’s communities. 
This year, P&G in the Arabian Peninsula joined with 
Majid Al Futtaim-Carrefour to support the Year of 
Zayed, the centennial celebration of the birth of the 
country’s founder through a unique shopper initiative. 
Named “Leave Your Mark”, the campaign promoted 
environmental sustainability, in particular the planting 
of the Ghaf, the UAE’s national tree. P&G in the Arabian 
Peninsula and Carrefour UAE planted one Ghaf seed 
for every P&G product purchased at Carrefour UAE 
stores nationwide during two weeks in July and August. In total, 20,000 Ghaf seeds were planted by P&G and 
Carrefour employees and consumers. When ready, 
these Ghaf saplings will be planted in a new national 
reserve designed to educate UAE consumers about  
the importance of environmental sustainability.
Partnering with Customers to 
Protect Natural Reserves in China
P&G China Pioneer Program and YH Supermarket, one 
of the largest-scaled supermarkets in China, built a 
five-year partnership to help protect natural reserves 
and rare species. The partnership began in 2017 where 
we attracted 1.5 million consumers to join the “buy one 
P&G product, donate 1 RMB” responsible consumption 
campaign in 300 YH supermarkets around China. The 
donation contributed to help local NGOs protect more 
than 200 square kilometers of natural forest reserve in 
northwestern China, including a few rare animal and 
plant species living in the forest area. 
Our campaign with YH 
Supermarket in China generated 
donations to help protect more 
than 200 square kilometers of 
natural forest reserve. We planted one Ghaf seed for 
every P&G product purchased 
at Carrefour UAE, totaling 
20,000 seeds planted.
149Sustainable Innovation 
with Suppliers
Designing The Good Life with our  
Sustainable Partner Innovation 
Network
In November, P&G thought leaders and fourteen 
suppliers from our global Sustainable Partner 
Innovation Network participated in an experiential 
immersion where they were challenged to think 
about current and future sustainability issues in a 
new and innovative way. Participants travelled to 
seven unique locations across the city of Chicago in 
one day to experience a broad range of barriers that 
prevent consumers and communities from living 
The Good Life—a life filled with delightful innovation 
and responsible consumption. The event challenged 
participants to consider the imminent world—one of 
increased urban living and decreased resources—as 
an inspiration, rather than a barrier, for developing 
sustainable innovation for the future. As a result, our 
supplier ecosystem is more connected to the vision  
of developing future innovations that are both a force 
for good and a force for growth.
P&G thought leaders and 
suppliers met in Chicago to 
imagine The Good Life—filled 
with delightful innovation and 
responsible consumption.
150Worldwide Health, Safety 
and Environment Systems
Health and Safety Policy
P&G is committed to having safe and healthy operations 
around the world. The goals are to protect the lives and  
health of our employees and the communities surrounding 
our operations, as well as to protect our assets, ensure 
business continuity and engender public trust.
To accomplish this, P&G will:
• Operate facilities safely and ensure that processes are 
safe and healthy for our employees and residents of 
the surrounding communities. We will accomplish 
this by following uniform corporate safety standards 
around the world. Safe operations have been a long-
standing part of Company culture, reflecting the belief 
that our employees are our most important asset.
• Construct our facilities so as not to compromise the 
safety and health features designed into them.
• Monitor progress toward our objective of preventing 
injuries, illnesses and incidents. We will continually 
assess and improve our safety and health technologies 
and programs. 
• Have every employee understand and be responsible 
for incorporating safe behavior in daily business 
activities. Every employee is trained to work in a safe 
and healthy manner.
• Have operating standards, practices, systems and 
resources in place to implement this policy.Worldwide Health, Safety & 
Environment Organization
Health, Safety & Environment (HS&E) is a global 
community of resources responsible for ensuring that 
all sites worldwide—including innovation centers, 
distribution centers, acquisitions and established 
plants—are operated safely and legally; that process 
hazards are minimized or eliminated; that health risks 
are identified and managed or eliminated; and that 
waste from sites is reduced as much as possible.  
Several thousand employees spend all or a portion  
of their time on HS&E management.
There are three major components to a site’s HS&E 
organization: Environmental, Technical Safety and 
Industrial Hygiene & Personnel Safety. In addition, 
each site typically has both a Fire Protection Systems 
Leader and an overall HS&E Leader. The HS&E site 
organization also closely partners with the site Health 
Service or Medical leader. P&G uses a phased, detailed 
Risk Assessment process to evaluate the safety of 
processes and initiatives being introduced at our own 
manufacturing operations as well as at contractor 
manufacturing operations. The Risk Assessment 
process is designed to enable high-speed innovation.P&G has verified that the HS&E program at all of our 
manufacturing facilities meets the intent of the Global 
Health and Safety Management standards OSHAS 18001 
and ISO 14001. In addition to our own internal reviews, 
in 2006, P&G worked with Environmental Resources 
Management (ERM), a highly respected international 
consulting firm in the field of environment, health, 
safety and sustainability to conduct an independent 
equivalence study. This ERM report, and a secondary 
P&G internal follow-up audit in 2010, both reaffirmed we 
are following the overall principles defined within these 
standards.
151Worldwide Health, Safety 
and Environment Systems
Health & Safety
The health and safety of P&G employees and our 
contractor partners is a foundational expectation and 
directly linked to P&G core values. 
• Nothing we do is worth getting hurt
• Safety can be managed
• Every injury and illness can and should be prevented
• Safety is everyone’s responsibility
The Company tracks our total injury rate (TIR) and 
loss work day case rate (LWDC). TIR includes any 
injury that requires medical treatment beyond first 
aid, including work restrictions. LWDC is a subset of 
all injuries that were serious enough to result in the 
individual missing the next assigned work shift. Our 
TIR target for both employees and contractors is 0.24 
injuries per year per 100 employees (100,000 hours). 
No targets are set for LWDC rates. To achieve these 
results, we have implemented an integrated Health, 
Safety and Environmental program. This program sets 
expectations that enable evaluation of each site’s  
leadership involvement, behavior and culture, equipment 
design and maintenance standards, and training and 
procedures. We specifically focus on life-safety critical 
systems such as electrical safety, confined space 
entry, fall prevention/protection, material handling and 
isolation of hazardous energy. The TIR and LWDC rate 
results are summarized in the charts to the right.0.23
0.270.24
2017
20162018Total Incident Rate
(Injury and illness per 100 employees)
0.12
0.120.13
2017
20162018Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)
152Worldwide Health, Safety 
and Environment Systems
P&G has more than 25 manufacturing plants 
and technical centers that are celebrating 
more than one million safe work hours 
without a lost workday injury.
Audit Programs
P&G’s internal HSE audit program is designed to 
ensure sites are complying with both local regulatory 
requirements, as well as, corporate polices, standards 
and procedures. These audits are completed at all 
plants, innovation centers and distribution centers 
worldwide. Recently we modified the audit program 
to eliminate numerical scores and move to identifying 
specific findings and classifying those findings as critical, 
major or minor. All findings are tracked to closure by 
the corporate HSE. The fundamental philosophy is to 
use the standards worldwide, implemented by trained 
HSE leaders at facilities and audited each year using a 
consistent, comprehensive approach. Audits measure 
performance against mandatory standards and 
operating procedures. The target is to have no critical 
findings and continually reduce the number of major or 
minor findings. This year 99% of the sites were assessed. 
97%
94%99%
2017
20162018Sites Conducting Annual Audits
(Percentage)Manufacturing Site Safe Hours* GBU Region
Ibadan 11,900,000 Fabric and Home Care IMEA
Shiga 7,200,000 Beauty Asia
Takasaki 6,600,000 Fabric and Home Care Asia
Xiqing 4,900,000 Beauty Asia
Huangpu 4,600,000 Beauty Asia
Technical Center Safe Hours* GBU Region
London Innovation Center 2,700,000 Technical Center Europe
Kobe Innovation Center 670,000 Technical Center Asia
Brussels Innovation Center 550,000 Technical Center Europe
Singapore Innovation Center 450,000 Technical Center Asia
Kronberg Innovation Center 330,000 Technical Center Europe*Rounded down to the nearest 100,000Top 5 Sites with the Highest Number of Employee Safe Working Hours
153Worldwide Health, Safety 
and Environment Systems
Compliance with Laws  
and Regulations
There are numerous health, safety and environmental 
requirements worldwide. Plants are subject to safety 
rules and emission limits with operating requirements 
that may be embodied in sources such as statutes, 
regulations, laws and permits. It is P&G’s intent to 
comply with both the letter and the spirit of statutes, 
regulations, laws and permit requirements. Identified 
compliance issues are treated seriously, and all 
noncompliance matters are resolved as expeditiously  
as possible.
ViolationNumber  
of NOVsFines
Water-Based 7 $15,908
Air-Based 4 $229,500
Solid-Waste-Based 1 $0
Paperwork 4 $3,622
Transportation-Based 0 $0
Other 1 $400
Worker Safety 0 $0
Total 17 $249,430FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Air Emissions by GBU
Thousands of metric tons
8
98
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherNotices of Violation
We continually strive for zero notices or penalties. The 
charts below summarize data from the last three years 
and provide perspective on notices of violation (NOVs) 
received during FY 14/15. Note, several fines are still 
under review but are included in the total numbers.
A breakdown of NOVs is provided below:Air Emissions
Each site assesses total suspended particulates, volatile 
organic compounds (VOCs), carbon monoxide (CO), 
nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulfur oxides (SOX). The chart 
below summarizes data from the last three years.
Year Number Fines
2018 17 $249,430
2017 24 $102,804
2016 29 $46,250
154Awards & Recognitions 
Environmental Excellence
We were one of only five organizations nationwide to 
receive an EPA Green Power Partnership Leadership 
Award for direct project engagement. The program 
recognizes organizations that distinguish themselves 
through direct project engagement with on- and off-
site projects to access renewable energy certificate 
(REC)-based green power.
In addition, we rank as number 9 on EPA’s Fortune  
500® Partners list and as number 14 on EPA’s National 
Top 100 Partners list. Each list highlights EPA Green 
Power Partners using the most renewable energy 
annually as of July 2018. EPA updates its Top Partner 
Rankings quarterly.
According to the EPA, our green power use of more 
than 743 million kWh at our U.S. facilities is equivalent 
to the electricity use of almost 70,000 average 
American homes annually.Our Alce Blanco toothbrushes and floss plant in Mexico 
received a recognition granted to less than 1% of the 
manufacturing sites in the country called Clean Industry 
Level II. They also received an award for Environmental 
Excellence by the Environmental Ministry. This award 
is given to sites that have demonstrated best practices 
in environmental sustainability such as zero water 
consumption in the manufacturing process, clean 
energy and zero waste to landfill. The Alce Blanco plant 
has made significant progress recently, including LED 
lighting, solar heaters, reforestation, and process and 
machinery efficiency projects that translate into less 
water and energy consumption while reducing GHG. 
Our diaper recycling technology that we worked in 
partnership with Fater to bring to scale, received the 
Eco-Innovation award from the European Commission.
Arbor Day Foundation 2018 Friend of the  
Forest Award  
We were honored to be recognized by the Arbor Day 
Foundation as their 2018 Friend of the Forest Award 
recipient. The award was granted for our dedication 
to responsible forest sourcing by partnering with 
organizations and landowners that support responsible 
forest management.
The Arbor Day Foundation 
recognized P&G as a 
friend of the forest for our 
commitment to responsible 
forest sourcing.
155Awards & Recognitions 
Business Intelligence Group 2018 Sustainability 
Leadership Award and Sustainability Initiative of  
the Year Award  
The Business Intelligence Group (BIG) announced P&G 
as a 2018 Sustainability Leadership Award recipient 
in recognition of our efforts to make sustainability an 
integral part of our business practice. 
And our Family Care business was separately awarded 
BIG’s 2018 Sustainability Initiative of the Year Award. 
FSC 2017 Leadership Award 
We were awarded the Forest Stewardship Council 
United States 2017 Leadership Award in recognition 
for making our iconic Charmin and Puffs tissue 
products FSC-certified and for working with partners 
to add 500,000 acres of FSC-certified forest in the 
Southeastern U.S.Our Milenio Blades & Razors Plant in Irapuato,  
Mexico continues to be a leading example of applying 
innovative sustainable manufacturing practices. The 
plant, which started operations seven years ago, is  
LEED Silver certified, sends zero manufacturing waste 
to landfill, reuses treated wastewater and utilizes 100%  
wind electricity. The plant won first place in the Energy 
Efficiency State Award for the third consecutive year,  
recognizing improvements in the evaporation plant, 
reducing consumption within lighting, heating, 
ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC). Two key 
highlights were the use of outdoor air in the winter 
which saved 360,945 KWh and upgrading to LED 
illumination in the quality assurance labs saving an 
additional 5,820KWh. 
We were awarded the United Nations’ Momentum  
for Change Award for our H&S beach plastics bottle. 
Our Binh Duong facility received the Green Book Award 
from the government in 2016-2017 for its energy and 
water reduction efforts.Our plant in Irapuato, 
Mexico uses 100% 
wind energy.
The Forest Stewardship 
Council recognized P&G for 
making Charmin and Puffs 
FSC-certified.
Photo Credit:  
Ebersole Photography
156Awards & Recognitions 
LEED
We are committed to “designing in” sustainability 
within our facilities, including pursuing LEED 
certification for all new facilities. We now have 30  
sites with LEED Silver or Gold certification.
Location Gold Silver
Ben Cat, Vietnam 2
Box Elder, UT, U.S. 2*
Cabuyao, Philippines 1
Cincinnati, OH, U.S. 2
Cruz, Brazil 1
Greensboro, NC, U.S. 1
Budapest / Gyongyos, Hungary 3
Guangzhou, China 1 1
Hyderabad, India 1 2
Jakarta, Indonesia 4
Lagos, Nigeria 2
Singapore 1
Tabler Station, WV, U.S. 2
Taicang, China 1 3
Total 4 26Box ElderCincinnati 
Greensboro Tabler Station
Cruz LagosGyongyos
HyderabadTaicang
Guangzhou
CabuyaoBen Cat
Singapore
Jakarta
*Represents a LEED v4 Certification at this location.
157Environmental Resource and Waste Summary
The table below reports environmental statistics for Manufacturing Operations in our Global Business Units, Technical Centers and Distribution Centers
Totals (absolute units x 1,000) 2017 Global Business Unit Detail1 (absolute units x 1,000)
2018 2017 2016Baby, Feminine 
and Family Care BeautyFabric and  
Home Care Grooming Health Care Other
Production  (metric tons)
Product Shipped 225,642 30,007 25,758 5,737 1,983 16,897 634 391 N/A
Raw Materials from Recycled Sources 3633 676 632
Waste  (metric tons)
Generated Waste 727 670 612 285 70 204 38 35 96
Percent Recycled / Reused Waste 90% 88% 87% 91% 89% 84% 99% 95% 96%
Disposed Waste  (metric tons)   
Waste Disposed 71 78 82 25.84 7.44 31.85 0.41 1.65 4.00
Solid Waste — Non-Hazardous 40 47 46 15.31 3.60 17.09 0.00 0.35 3.30
Solid Waste — Hazardous 2 3 8 0.01 0.11 2.03 0.00 0.01 0.00
Effluents (excluding water) 421 19 18 4.71 3.50 10.90 0.36 1.22 0.37
Air Emissions 58 8 9 5.81 0.23 1.83 0.05 0.07 0.33
Energy and Greenhouse Gas  (GHG)
Energy Consumption (gigajoules) 60,891 60,488 59,263 39,504 2,994 11,147 2,469 1,813 2,963
Total GHG Emissions (metric tons) 6  4,298 4,663 4,669 2,682 260 690 230 191 244
Scope 1 — Direct GHG Emissions (metric tons) 2,138 2,118 2,030 1,566 81 318 61 42 70
Scope 2 — Indirect GHG Emissions (metric tons)72,160 2,545 2,639 1,117 179 373 169 148 174
Biogenic GHG Emissions (metric tons) 68 89 177 68 N /A N /A N /A N /A N /A
Water  (Cubic meters)
Water Consumption 63,419 61,927 63,219 39,515 4,865 14,163 1,102 1,571 2,202
1 metric ton = 1,000 kg = 2,205 lbs.
(1)  For 2018, Baby, Feminine and Family Care includes Baby Care, Feminine Care and Family Care. Beauty includes Beauty 
Care and Personal Beauty Care. Fabric and Home Care includes Fabric Care, Home Care and Chemicals. Grooming 
includes Blades and Razors and Devices. Health Care includes Personal Health Care and Oral Care. Other includes major 
stand alone offices/technical centers that support the business units, our largest distribution facilities, and corporate 
entities such as our manufacturing operations in Venezuela. Numbers do not include production from contract 
manufacturing operations.(2) Estimated from shipment figures. Data was estimated using FY17/18 production volumes and FY15/16 conversion factors.
(3) Data is tracked at a corporate level.
(4) Wastewater chemical oxygen demand (COD).
(5) Air emissions include particulates, SO2, NOX, CO and VOC.
(6) Total GHG emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2. Scope 2 emissions calculated using a market-based method.
(7) Market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. Note: Location-based Scope 2 emissions 2018 were 2,598,621 metric tons.
158Global Measurement and  
Additional Operational Data
2020 Goal Measurement Systems
We go to great lengths to ensure rigor, accuracy 
and transparency in our reporting. Below, we share 
additional information on some of our 2020 Goal 
Measurement Systems to help ensure clarity and 
transparency on the data we are reporting:
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
For purposes of monitoring progress against our  
goal and listing emissions levels in charts and graphs, 
we utilize market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. The 
WRI/WBCSD GHG Accounting protocol provides 
additional perspective on market -  versus location-
based GHG emissions. 
Our GHG emissions data has been verified by  
an external third party, Lloyd’s Register Quality 
Assurance (LRQA).
Low-Energy Cycle Machine Washing Loads  
Each year, we carefully review habits and practices 
data to help us assess progress against our low-
energy washing goal. The objective of this goal is to 
get consumers to use low-energy cycles, and we can 
play a significant role in that by providing detergents 
that provide outstanding performance in low-energy 
cycles. We have included the following cycles in our 
tracking: Traditional Cold, HE Warm and Cold, with HE including both Top Loading and Front Loading HE 
Machines. Our benchmark for qualifying low-energy 
cycles has been 0.4KWh per wash cycle. Based on our 
continuing monitoring of machine performance, we 
now recognize that Top Loading HE machines consume 
more than 0.4KWh/wash cycle but still represent a 
significant energy savings vs. loads run in traditional 
warm cycles. In addition, we expect total energy for 
these types of machines to decrease further over time 
based on continued innovation and regulation. Given 
our objective is to drive consumers to low-energy cycles, 
and since HE Top Load machines represent a significant 
energy savings, we will continue to count top load HE 
machine Warm and Cold as low-energy cycles. Net, 
there is no change in the scope of our tracking but we 
are modifying our approach to simply list the cycles 
that we now track. For clarity they are cold cycles in 
traditional top load machines and cold and warm  
cycles in all HE machines.
Packaging Reduction  
The average packaging reduction is calculated using 
products that represent the top 70% (by volume) of the 
categories that have the largest impact on packaging 
use (Fabric Care, Home Care, Baby Care, Feminine Care, 
Family Care, Oral Care, Personal Cleansing Care, Shave 
Prep, Hair Color and Hair Care). While a subset of overall 
data, we believe it is representative of overall corporate 
data and focuses resources on the biggest SKUs and 
categories that have the biggest impact on packaging. 
159Global Measurement and  
Additional Operational Data
2020 Goal Measurement Systems
Recyclability of Packaging  
For purposes of tracking progress against our goal,  
a package is considered recyclable when there is an 
in-market, at-scale recycling system in place for that 
material type (e.g., collection, sortation, processing 
for end use and established end-market for collected 
material). While we require large-scale systems to be 
in place in at least one geography, we do not require a 
minimum percent access or recovery rate per package 
in every country or market where a package may be 
sold for the package to be considered recyclable for 
purposes of tracking progress versus our goal.
Paper Packaging  
Data for calculating progress versus our paper 
packaging goal was self-reported by our suppliers.  
The data collected this year covered materials procured 
directly by P&G as well as contractor manufacturers  
and covered more than 95% of our global spend.
Renewable Energy  
When calculating the renewable energy powering our 
plants, we include the renewable energy level of the 
local electrical grid that provides power to the plant.Water Conservation  
Our goal to reduce water use in manufacturing facilities 
by 20% per unit of production applies to freshwater 
consumption, which means freshwater intake from the 
following sources:
• Tap water – water supplied by municipalities or third-
party companies via piping systems or trucks, at any 
quality they deliver
• Net water via purchased steam
• Ground water from site wells
• Surface water – non-brackish as rivers, lakes, creeks, 
etc., at any quality they deliver
Palm Oil: We are seeking to increase  
our use of RSPO SG palm oil 
RSPO SG palm oil means that RSPO certified oil is 
physically segregated from non-certified oil. Given 
increasing stakeholder concerns over palm oil 
production practices of third-party suppliers, moving 
to RSPO SG oil for palm oil and derivatives provides 
a higher level of verification that the oil we procure 
is originating from RSPO-certified sources. It also, by 
definition, allows us to trace oil to the source plantation 
and implement additional verification efforts should 
they be deemed necessary. There are challenges with 
moving to RSPO SG palm oil, including both available 
supply and increased costs, but we are working with 
suppliers to try and overcome both of these challenges 
as we work towards our goal of having 100% of PO and 
POD be RSPO SG.Baseline Restatement  
This year, P&G adjusted our GHG emissions baseline in 
accordance with the principles in the WRI and WBCSD 
Corporate Standard for Greenhouse Gas Accounting. 
Changes included adjustments for acquisitions/
divestitures as well as other minor modifications and 
corrections to historic data. Our original baseline was 
5,466,601 metric tons. Our revised baseline, which we 
will use for calculating progress versus GHG emissions 
reduction goals, is now 5,422,275 metric tons. As 
part of this work, we also updated our baselines for 
energy, water and waste. Original energy baseline was 
67,904,220 gigajoules. It is now 64,081,270 gigajoules. 
Original water baseline was 77,049,114 cubic meters. It 
is now 75,201,959 cubic meters. Original waste disposed 
was 354,563 metric tons. It is now 339,306 metric tons. 
The baseline year remains the same: P&G’s FY09/10.
160ABOUT OUR CITIZENSHIP REPORT
Data in this report covers the period of July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018. Financial information is given in U.S. dollars. 
Questions related to this report can be directed to mediateam.im@pg.com . This report references GRI 102:  
General Disclosures 2016. A GRI Content Index for this report can be found here .