2019 Citizenship Report
Message from the CEO
Dear Stakeholders,
We’ve built Citizenship into our business, 
and it’s not only doing good, it’s building 
trust and equity with consumers, and 
driving growth and value creation —   
allowing us to be a force for good and  
a force for growth.
The force for good and force for 
growth concept is important. We serve 
shareholders and investors, but we also 
serve employees, business partners, 
suppliers, communities, governments  
and the broader world around us. We  
have a responsibility to all our stakeholders.  
That’s why our Citizenship platform is built  
in, not bolted on. It’s not a separate thing 
we do on the side — it’s how we do business 
every day around the world. In fact, one of the reasons why I believe we’re delivering 
stronger results is because we’ve activated the full 
capability of P&G people — a key tenet of our Diversity  
& Inclusion work. A diverse team with an inclusive 
environment that values every individual will 
outperform a homogeneous team, and that’s what  
the 97,000 employees of P&G are demonstrating. 
In the following pages, you will find stories 
that illustrate our commitment to Diversity & 
Inclusion, Community Impact, Gender Equality and 
Environmental Sustainability, all executed with  
a strong focus on Ethics & Corporate Responsibility.
For example, we used our voice to shine a light on  
bias and promote diversity, inclusion and equality  
with inspirational films like “Out of the Shadows” and 
“The Look.” We’ve helped victims of natural disasters  
all over the world, providing the comforts of home.  
We challenged the myths that hold women back in  
the workplace at global leadership and industry 
forums. And, we were the first CPG company to join 
Loop, a circular e-commerce platform that provides 
reusable, refillable packaging for some of our most 
popular products which can be collected, cleaned, 
refilled and reused. 
P&G partnered with National Geographic 
and Global Citizen to create ACTIVATE,  
a six-episode series focused on eradicating 
poverty and achieving the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals. The episodes highlight 
sustainable sourcing, racial bias, disaster 
relief, girls’ education, plastic waste  
and the global water crisis.
2One program that keeps on achieving terrific results  
is our Children’s Safe Drinking Water (CSDW) Program. 
In the last year, we delivered our 15 billionth liter of 
clean water — a year ahead of schedule — and set a  
new goal to deliver 25 billion liters by 2025. Many  
of our retail partners get involved with in-store 
activations, where buying a P&G product leads to  
a donation of water. This is an excellent example of  
how doing the right thing and helping others can  
also grow the business. That’s built-in Citizenship,  
and CSDW is an outstanding example that improves 
lives all over the world.
Another area we’re putting significant effort against  
is plastic waste, and we’re working on a range of 
solutions to collect, recycle and reclaim the value of 
plastics. For example, we made a new commitment  
to reduce use of virgin petroleum plastic in our 
packaging by 50% by 2030. We developed packaging 
for e-commerce that uses 50% less plastic, and  
we invented a technology that restores used 
polypropylene to ultra-pure recycled resin, making  
it like new again. We also helped start and have taken 
a leadership role in the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, 
which advances infrastructure development, innovative 
solutions, education and cleanup efforts to end plastic waste in the environment, especially in the oceans. 
Ending plastic waste will require unprecedented  
levels of investment, innovation and partnerships,  
and we’re committed to make a positive difference. 
As you’ll see in this report, it’s P&G people who are 
leading the way in our Citizenship efforts, and they, 
along with our many suppliers and partners, deserve all 
the credit. They are the ones who lead P&G’s programs 
with incredible passion and expertise, who work with 
NGOs to deliver clean water, who invent technologies 
to help revolutionize recycling, who turn beach plastic 
into shampoo bottles, and who use our brands to 
promote positive change. Every day, P&G people 
demonstrate the power of being a force for good and 
a force for growth, and I’m proud to share their work.
DAVID S. TAYLOR
Chairman of the Board,  
President and Chief Executive Officer
3Message from the CEO 2
Internal Leadership  5
Issue Prioritization  6
P&G at a Glance 7
A Company of Leading Brands  8
Ethics & Corporate 10 
Responsibility
Message from Debbie Majoras 12
Our Purpose, Values and Principles 13
Good Governance 14
Respecting Human Rights 16
Doing the Right Thing with Our Employees 18
Doing the Right Thing with Our Consumers 22
Doing the Right Thing with Our Supply Chain 24
Speaking Up 27
Stakeholder Engagement  28
Community  31 
Impact
Highlights 32
Message from Marc Pritchard 38
The P&G Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program 39
Disaster Relief 44
Habitat for Humanity 47
Brand Programs — Baby Care 48
Brand Programs — Fabric Care 50
Brand Programs — Health and Hygiene 52Education  53
Skills Training  57
Product Donation  58
Employee Contributions/Volunteering 59
Employee Volunteering — Cleanups 64
Awards  65
Employee Wellbeing 67
Diversity  69 
& Inclusion
Highlights 70
Message from Shelly McNamara 75 
Using Our Voice 76
Making an Impact 83
Changing the Culture 86
Awards and Recognitions 90
Gender  92  
Equality
Highlights 93
Message from Carolyn Tastad 100
Using Our Voice 101
Making an Impact 105
Keeping Girls in School 105
Girls in STEM  109
Economic Advancement for Women  110
Changing the Culture 114
Gender Equality Partners  119
Awards and Recognitions 120Environmental  122  
Sustainability
Highlights 123
Message from Virginie Helias 131
2020 Environmental Goals Progress 132
Environmental Progress versus 2010 Baseline 134
Brands 135
Brand 2030 136
Ambitious Packaging Goals 139
New Packaging that Changes the Game 140
Reclaiming Plastic and Giving it a New Life 141
Loop Tests Refillable, Reusable Packaging 143
Closing in on our 2020 Packaging Goals 144
Responsible Consumption for Energy Savings 146
Water-Efficient Products  147
Trust and Transparency at the Core 148
Supply Chain 150
Climate  152
Responsible Forestry  156
Palm Oil 161
Water  168
Waste  171
Society  173
Creating Circular Economies 174
Keeping Plastic Waste out of the Environment 175
Responsible Consumption  179
Protecting Water for People and Nature 180
Reinventing Water for Urban Living 182
Employees  183
Tracking Our Progress  186
Awards and Recognitions 190
Environmental Resource and Waste Summary 191
Global Measurement and Additional  
Operational Data 192 Table of Contents
4Our objective is to create industry-leading value by 
maintaining and enhancing our strong corporate 
reputation. We’ll achieve this through a strong ethics 
and compliance culture that supports conserving 
resources, protecting the environment, improving 
social conditions, respecting human and labor rights, 
and empowering individuals and the communities  
in which we live, work and serve. We start with Ethics 
& Corporate Responsibility as the foundation for the 
other four priority areas: Community Impact, Diversity 
& Inclusion, Gender Equality and Environmental 
Sustainability. Each of these areas is led by an  
executive sponsor committed to ensuring we achieve 
our specific objectives. The executive sponsors of  
the priority areas form the Citizenship Board with  
P&G’s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief 
Executive Officer as the Chair.
Environmental
Sustainability
Shailesh Jejurikar
Fabric and 
Home Care Chief 
Executive OfﬁcerGender
Equality
Carolyn Tastad
Group President, 
North America and 
Chief Sales OfﬁcerDiversity 
& Inclusion
Shelly McNamara
Chief Diversity & Inclusion
Ofﬁcer and Senior VP,
Human ResourcesMarc Pritchard
Chief Brand OfﬁcerCommunity 
ImpactDavid S. Taylor
Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Additional Board Members 
Craig Buchholz
Chief Communications Ofﬁcer
Tracey Grabowski
Chief Human 
Resources Ofﬁcer Ethics & 
Corporate 
Responsibility
Debbie Majoras 
Chief Legal Ofﬁcer 
and Secretary
Citizenship BoardInternal Leadership
5Issue Prioritization
Issue prioritization continues to be an 
important tool to ensure we understand 
stakeholder views and address the most 
relevant issues through our Citizenship focus 
areas. This year, we validated our previous 
issue prioritization through application  
of a software solution platform utilizing 
artificial intelligence to analyze thousands  
of publicly available sources such as 
corporate reports, regulations, news,  
and social media. We tailored our external 
stakeholder analysis to cover benchmark 
peers, regulations, and news coverage  
most relevant to our company and  
industry. P&G employee insights formed  
our internal stakeholder view. The results 
again highlighted the importance of  
each Citizenship area, with an emphasis  
on Ethics & Corporate Responsibility  
and Environmental Sustainability.Insight 1  
Governance & Ethical Conduct, Corporate Transparency, 
Data Security & Privacy, Human & Labor Rights, 
Product Safety, and Ingredient Transparency are 
substantial priority to stakeholders. Our ongoing 
commitment and efforts in these areas are outlined  
in our Ethics & Corporate Responsibility section.
Insight 2  
Climate & Greenhouse Gases, Water Resources, Waste 
Management, Energy Conservation & Renewable 
Energy, and Forest Resources continue to be high 
priority for stakeholders and are fundamental focus 
areas of our environmental sustainability work.
Insight 3  
Last year we launched our Ambition 2030 framework, 
with a focus on how our brands are striving to be  
a force for good and a force for growth. We know 
this is important for stakeholders as well and ranking 
Sustainable Product Design & Innovation again 
remains one of the top priorities. You can read more 
about how we’re considering impacts throughout  
the entire lifecycle of our products and leading 
innovation to drive positive growth.
6P&G at a Glance
Our aspiration is to serve the world’s 
consumers better than our best competitors, 
in every category and every country where 
we choose to compete — creating superior 
shareholder value in the process. We work 
hard every day to make quality products  
and services that improve people’s lives, 
now and for generations to come. 
 North America3 45%
 Europe  23%
 Asia Pacific 10%
 Greater China 9%
 India, Middle East & Africa (IMEA) 7%
 Latin America 6%  Fabric & Home Care 33%
 Baby, Feminine & Family Care  27%
 Beauty  19%
 Health Care 12%
 Grooming  9%Amounts in billions, except per share amounts 2019
Net Sales $67.7
Operating Income $5.5
Net Earnings Attributable to P&G $3.9
Net Earnings Margin from Continuing Operations 5.9%
Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share from Continuing Operations 1$1.43
Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share 1$1.43
Operating Cash Flow $15.2
Dividends per Common Share $2.90
2019 NET SALES BY  
GEOGRAPHIC REGION2019 NET SALES BY  
BUSINESS SEGMENT2
1  Diluted net earnings per common share are calculated based  
on net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble.
2 These results exclude net sales in Corporate.
3 North America includes the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico.
7A Company of Leading Brands
Our portfolio is organized around 10 product categories and about 65 brands. These 10 
category-based business units have historically grown faster with higher margins than  
the balance of the Company. These are categories where we have leading market positions 
and where product technologies deliver performance differences that matter to consumers.  
Across all 10 of our categories, we’re focused on meaningful and noticeable superiority in all 
elements of our consumer proposition — products, packaging, brand communication, retail 
execution (in-store and online) and superior value — in each price tier where we compete.
Family Care Fabric Care Home Care Baby Care
Grooming Oral Care Personal Health Care Hair Care Skin & Personal CareFeminine Care
Health Care Beauty GroomingFabric and  
Home CareBaby and  
Feminine CareFamily Care and  
P&G Ventures
8Ethics & Corporate Responsibility
9At P&G, we serve nearly five billion people around the world with 
our brands. We have operations in nearly 70 countries and have one 
of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality and leadership brands. 
As we serve the world’s consumers, we believe in, and have publicly 
committed to, doing what’s right and being a good corporate citizen. 
10Ethics & Corporate 
Responsibility
Message from Debbie Majoras 
Our Purpose, Values and Principles 
Good Governance 
Respecting Human Rights 
Doing the Right Thing with  
Our Employees Doing the Right Thing with  
Our Consumers  
Doing the Right Thing with  
Our Supply Chain 
Speaking Up 
Stakeholder Engagement  
11“A reputation for trust and integrity must 
be earned every day — action by action, 
employee by employee. With change a 
constant in our business, it is more critical 
than ever that we remain grounded in 
our Purpose, Values and Principles as the 
foundation for how we operate. Strong 
governance and compliance practices 
build trust, which, in turn, creates value for 
consumers, customers and shareholders.”Message from  
Debbie Majoras
Chief Legal Officer  
and Secretary
12Our Purpose, Values  
and Principles
Our Purpose, Values and Principles (PVPs) are the foundation of who we are. 
Our Purpose is to improve consumers’ lives in small but meaningful ways, and 
it inspires our people to make a positive contribution every day. Our Values of 
Integrity, Leadership, Ownership, Passion for Winning and Trust shape how we 
work with each other and with our partners. And our Principles articulate our 
deliberate approach to conducting work every day. We know that P&G employees 
believe in the personal and business value of this PVP foundation — our PVPs are 
consistently cited in our annual employee survey as the Number 1 aspect of our 
culture that employees would not change. Our philosophy is that a reputation  
of trust and integrity is built over time, earned every day, and provides lasting 
value for our stakeholders. 
13Good Governance
Our PVPs further inform our approach to corporate governance. We believe that strong 
governance practices contribute to better results for shareholders. We maintain governance 
principles, policies and practices that support board and management accountability and 
serve the best interests of our Company, our shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Board Leadership and Oversight
Recognizing our Company’s role as a global leader, 
the Board of Directors has adopted the Corporate 
Governance Guidelines, which describe our commitment  
to and guiding principles for strong governance. 
Among the key principles and practices we follow are:
•   Significant director interaction with senior business 
leaders and access to other employees as desired
•  Annual board and committee self-assessments  
and one-on-one reviews with individual directors 
•  Fully independent board committees 
•   Annual assessment and determination of the board’s 
leadership structure
•   Election of a lead director, with significant 
governance responsibilities, if the chairman  / CEO 
roles are combined
•   Term limits and mandatory retirement age, with 
exceptions granted only in special circumstances As we hold ourselves to a high internal standard, 
we strive to reflect external best practices in our 
governance approach. We listen to the expectations 
and insights of our investors and stakeholders and 
continually assess where we can make further progress 
in key areas. For example, we are a signatory to the 
Commonsense Corporate Governance Principles 2.0, 
reflecting our commitment to a foundation of effective 
governance. Further, we assess our practices against 
external benchmarks like the Investor Stewardship 
Group’s Corporate Governance Principles, generally 
finding that our practices closely align with these 
ideals. Overall, we believe our approach to governance 
strengthens the board’s ability to provide meaningful 
oversight, review and counsel to the Company, as it 
acts on behalf of all of our shareholders. We believe strong governance 
practices contribute to better 
results for shareholders.
14As a key component of its oversight, the board and its committees devote substantial time 
not only to strategy, but to the review of core matters of corporate culture like ethics and 
compliance, cybersecurity, pay equity, environmental sustainability, and human capital 
management. The full board provides strategic oversight and monitors emerging priorities 
and risks in these and other areas, while each committee devotes further attention to 
particular matters within its scope. 
Audit Committee  
Oversees the Company’s overall risk management 
process, including financial controls and integrity,  
and meets regularly with the chief ethics &  
compliance officer, reviewing key enterprise  
risks and cybersecurity programs.
Governance & Public  
Responsibility Committee  
Oversees matters related to the Company’s corporate 
governance practices and policies, including board 
composition, director succession planning, and 
independence, and oversees the Company’s geo-
political risks and community and environmental 
impact, assessing our practices and progress  
against key benchmarks.Compensation & Leadership 
Development Committee  
Oversees the development and succession planning 
of the Company’s CEO and other executive officers, 
monitors gender pay equity, and ensures our executive 
compensation practices are balanced in rewarding 
holistic, long-term growth. 
Innovation & Technology Committee  
Oversees the Company’s innovation and technology 
programs, including the responsible integration  
of new technology into our innovation strategy,  
while also considering how these programs  
incorporate the Company’s sustainability and 
ingredient safety priorities.
This broad scope of board and committee oversight and the resulting active engagement  
of our directors help ensure that our Company’s values, our leadership’s behaviors and  
our employees’ efforts are ultimately linked to our Company strategy in a meaningful  
and effective way. BOARD COMPOSITION
As a global, diverse consumer products company, 
we strive to reflect the diversity of our workforce 
in our boardroom. Not only do our directors bring 
to the board significant and varied leadership 
skills and experiences, they represent a mix of 
background, age, gender, race and international 
experience that informs their leadership and 
strengthens their oversight. 
 
On Our Current Board:
 
5/12 (42%)  
members are women   
 
2/12 (17%)  
members are ethnically diverse  
 
6/12 (50%)  
members have served fewer than 6 years, 
with average tenure of about 7 years  
 
4/12 (33%)  
members joined within the last 3 years  
 
9/12 (75%)  
members are current or former  
public company CEOs
 
The board’s overall diversity is a key priority 
and significant consideration in our director 
nomination process. Good Governance
15Respecting Human Rights 
Respect for Human Rights is fundamental to the way we manage our business. Our Human 
Rights Policy Statement communicates our support for the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights, which respects and honors the principles of internationally 
recognized human rights consisting of those rights expressed in the International Bill of 
Human Rights (i.e., Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenants 
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and Civil and Political Rights) and the principles 
concerning fundamental rights as set out in the International Labor Organization (ILO) 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We recognize that it is the sovereign state’s duty to 
protect against human rights abuses by establishing 
and upholding appropriate laws and policies. We also 
recognize that some states do not have adequate 
legal and regulatory frameworks or enforcement 
mechanisms or have laws that conflict with these 
internationally recognized human rights. Wherever this 
is the case, we are committed to doing the right thing 
by respecting human rights in every aspect of our 
business operations. We embrace this commitment 
and responsibility of ensuring that human rights are 
upheld all along our end-to-end value chain, which in 
turn encompasses all our stakeholders, particularly our 
employees, our consumers, the communities where 
we do business, and our business partners.We have been working to strengthen education and 
develop awareness-raising tools for the company and 
extended supply chain. As part of a wider learning 
program, we have developed a series of short videos 
(less than 2 minutes each) to help our employees and 
those of our vendors and contractors recognize human 
rights issues in the workplace. By educating them 
to spot problems in the office and manufacturing 
facilities, we empower them to speak up and get  
help for others.
16No Child Labor
The ILO states that “Child Labor is often defined 
as work that deprives children of their childhood, 
their potential and their dignity, and that is harmful 
to physical and mental development. It refers to 
work that: is mentally, physically, socially or morally 
dangerous and harmful to children; and interferes  
with their schooling by: depriving them of the 
opportunity to attend school; obliging them to leave 
school prematurely; or requiring them to attempt to 
combine school attendance with excessively long  
and heavy work.” We do not permit the exploitation  
of children, and will not use child labor in our end-  
to-end value chain.
No Forced Labor
We support the Consumer Goods Forum Priority 
Industry Principles, which state: “Forced labor is an 
unacceptable human rights violation that can take 
multiple forms, and must be addressed. While certain 
employment and recruitment practices may not 
initially appear problematic, in aggregate or combined 
with other forms of leverage, they can result in forced 
labor, particularly among vulnerable workers. We  
will take active measures to apply these Principles 
across our global value chains and own operations, to 
cases where such practices may lead to forced labor. 
We will seek to apply these Principles to all workers 
regardless of their employment status, location, 
contractual arrangements or role. We do this as part  
of our collective journey to advance the human rights 
of workers and positively shape global labor markets.”PRIORITY INDUSTRY PRINCIPLES Non-Discrimination
We are deeply committed to an inclusive culture and 
do not discriminate against individuals on the basis  
of race, color, gender, age, national origin, religion, 
sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, 
marital status, citizenship, disability, veteran status, 
HIV/AIDS status or any other legally protected factor. 
P&G supports the UN Global LGBTI Standards for 
Business. In November 2018, P&G participated in a 
panel session at the 2018 UN Forum on Business and 
Human Rights on how to create accountability and 
build trust on corporate engagement on rights of 
LGBT+ people.
Freedom of Association and  
Collective Bargaining
We respect our employees’ right to choose to join 
or not to join a trade union or to have recognized 
employee representation in accordance with local 
law. Where employees are represented by a legally 
recognized union or employee representative, we are 
committed to establishing a constructive dialogue 
regarding the interests of both the employees and 
the business. The Company will negotiate a labor 
agreement in good faith with such representatives in 
accordance with local law. Whether the facility is union 
or non-union, we strive to create a high-performing 
work force — where employees are highly engaged, 
multi-skilled and process owners.Respecting Human Rights
I. Every worker should  
have freedom of movement. 
The ability of workers to move freely 
should not be restricted by their 
employer through abuse, threats and 
practices such as retention of passports 
and valuable possessions. 
III. No worker should be 
indebted or coerced to work. 
Workers should work freely, aware of the 
terms and conditions of their work in 
advance, and paid regularly as agreed.II. No worker should  
pay for a job. 
Fees and costs associated with 
recruitment and employment should be 
paid by the employer, not the employee. 
17Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees 
We bring our values to life as we focus on 
improving consumers’ lives now and for 
generations to come. We recruit, hire and 
retain the best talent from around the 
world, reflecting the diversity of the markets 
and consumers we serve. Developing and 
retaining a diverse workforce provides us 
with a sustained competitive advantage. We 
recognize that a diverse mix of backgrounds, 
skills and experiences drives new ideas, 
products and services. This maximizes our 
ability to achieve our goals together.
Confidence and Trust
We strive to promote a work environment of confidence 
and trust. Our Worldwide Business Conduct Manual 
(WBCM)  and Employee Rights Policy  provides 
employees with clear guidance on specific situations 
they may face and directs them where to go when 
they have questions or concerns. We are a recognized 
leader in providing a safe, healthy, secure and productive 
work environment. We are committed to maintaining 
a workplace that is free of violence, harassment, 
intimidation or other unsafe or disruptive behaviors 
or conditions due to threats inside or outside of our 
facilities. Each employee has a personal responsibility 
to their fellow employees and to the Company to follow 
all Company safety and security procedures, as well as 
applicable laws and regulations. Our “Do the Right Thing” training series enables 
continuous learning and support for our employees.  
The all-employee general training session is derived from 
our WBCM principles: Respect, Integrity and Stewardship 
and other ethics and compliance topics related to the 
given theme. In addition, we deploy breakout training 
sessions based on organizational needs. In 2018, 
the general training session was: “Doing the Right 
Thing — Respect at P&G,” and the breakout training 
session, “PVP Illustrated — Our Culture of Integrity” was 
focused on how to apply our PVPs as a practical guide  
in order to maintain integrity in challenging situations. 
We also have a library of engaging, custom-built 
training courses, which are available to all employees 
as a resource and are further assigned based on role 
and location to maximize relevance and impact. These 
address conflicts of interest, stopping retaliation, 
opposing bribery and other areas. In 2017, we partnered 
with a renowned behavioral scientist and an award- 
winning documentary filmmaker to create a series of 
short films that spotlight clinical research on integrity 
and feature P&G leaders and employees reflecting on 
“doing the right thing.” This miniseries of five episodes 
has been hailed for its cinematic style, the genuine 
and unscripted participation by executive leadership, 
and its candid discussion of human vulnerability to 
the challenges, pressures and unseen psychological 
factors for which we all must be vigilant. Powerful, 
authentic documentary footage of P&G executives and 
employees from the series were leveraged in creating 
that PVP Illustrated training. 
We recruit, hire and retain 
the best talent from around 
the world, reflecting the 
diversity of the markets and 
consumers we serve.
18Celebrating Our Do the Right  
Thing Culture
Every year, we celebrate our shared Purpose, Values 
and Principles (PVP) foundation with the “Do the Right 
Thing Celebration.” Our locations around the world 
create their own employee engagement events tied to 
a global theme derived from our Worldwide Business 
Conduct Manual (WBCM) principles of Respect, 
Integrity and Stewardship. The 2018 celebration 
theme was “Winning with Respect.” Events feature 
activities and contests to engage employees and 
raise awareness, leadership townhall discussions 
and inspiring videos from employees making a 
difference. Sites are recognized for the outstanding 
results in the areas of creativity, engagement and 
passionate leadership. Though we set high standards 
for all employees, those who personally demonstrate 
commitment to ethics and compliance can also be 
recognized by peers or managers with a special “PVP 
Champion” designation. Since its inception in 2016, 
hundreds of employees have been recognized. In 
addition to these local activations, our 2018 celebration 
featured a global webcast keynote address by John 
Quiñones, ABC News correspondent and host of TV’s 
hidden camera ethical dilemma show “What Would 
You Do?” His P&G talk, “Respect Changed My Life,” 
chronicled his inspiring personal journey from a poor, 
non-English speaking immigrant to award-winning 
journalist, highlighting the perils of implicit bias, and 
providing powerful insight on how we can confront 
our own biases to help ensure a more respectful 
workplace, community and society.Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees 
19Compensation and Benefits
P&G supports paying employees competitive total 
compensation, as benchmarked against other leading 
companies. Consistent with our principle of valuing 
personal contribution and mastery, we provide 
employees the opportunity to develop their skills and 
capabilities to enhance their abilities to succeed in 
their careers consistent with the needs of the business. 
The Company is a recognized leader in employee 
benefits, which have been developed to help protect the financial security of employees. While offerings 
vary depending on each country’s market practices, 
they include benefits like comprehensive coverage for 
health care, a competitive pension scheme, vacation 
and holiday time, and other work/family balance 
benefits, including flextime, and less-than-full-time 
schedules, all subject to local requirements. 
We are also committed to recognizing and rewarding 
individual and team performance that reflects behaviors 
consistent with our PVPs and PEAK Performance Factors (Lead with Courage, Innovate for Growth, 
Champion Productivity, Execute with Excellence 
and Bring Out Our Best). Recognition helps confirm 
achievements, contribute to employees feeling valued 
and encourages them to give their very best. It provides 
evidence that others believe in what we do and that we 
are doing the right things to help us succeed.Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees
Image describes the types of 
benefits that P&G offers to its 
employees around the world. 
Some of the benefits described 
in the Benefits Navigator may not 
be available to all employees at 
all locations. P&G also may offer 
some benefits not described in the 
Benefits Navigator to employees  
in some locations.BENEFITS NAVIGATOR 
P&G Patterned CirclesBenefits navigator
•Health	Fair
•Blood	Donations•Paid	Parental	Leave
•Adoption	/	Surrogacy	Assistance
•Flexible	Spending	Account	–
Child	/	Dependent	Care
•Perks	at	Work
•Flexible	Work	Arrangements
•Service	Awards
•Legal	Services
•Annual	Gift•	Medical	Plans
•Health	Savings	Accounts
•Dental	Plan
•Vision	Plan
•MyHealth	MyRewards
•WorkLife	Solutions	/	EAP
•Stress	&	Resilience•Health	Flexible	Spending
Arrangement
–Dental	/	Vision	/	Medical	Care	FSA
•	Disability
–Short-Term	/	Long-Term
–Optional
•Life	Insurances
•	Bereavement	Leave
•Paid	Time	Off
–Personal
–Regular	Vacation	Days
–Purchased	Vacation	Days
–Company	Holidays•	Military	Leave
•	Personal	Leave	of	Absence
•	Family	Medical	Leave
•Volunteerism•	Profit	Sharing
•Pension	Plans
•	Stock	Purchase•	Employee-Initiated	Education 
Reimbursement
•	Retirement	Readiness	–	The	Basics
•Financial	Planning
The Benefits Navigator describes the types of benefits that P&G offers to its employees around the 
world. Some of the benefits described in the Benefits Navigator may not be available to all employees 
at all locations. P&G also may offer some benefits not described in the Benefits Navigator to employees 
in some locations.
FAMILY
OTHER 
BENEFITSFINANC IAL
TIME AWAY 
FROM WORKHEALTH
& WELFARE
VIBRANT 
LIVING
P&G P atterned Cir cles
20Employee and Labor Relations 
At P&G, we believe an engaged and capable workforce 
is critical to the Company’s success. A key strategy to 
winning in the marketplace is to create a highly-skilled, 
agile and flexible workforce that delivers business 
initiatives — better than our competition. We offer an 
expansive array of skill-building programs that allow 
employees to grow their individual skills, leading to 
better business results and career advancement.  
These programs help to ensure a strong and highly-
skilled labor workforce that benefits the Company  
as well as the communities in which we operate. 
We regularly assess employee and labor relations 
through standard Company tools like our Corporate 
Employee Engagement Survey and the Labor  
Relations Compliance & Health Assessment Tool.  
These assessments allow us to proactively identify  
and address any individual or employee group 
concerns that may potentially impact employee 
engagement, company policies or compliance  
with local laws or regulations.Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Employees
21Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Consumers
Since 1837, we’ve built a rich heritage of positively impacting consumers’  
lives with brands that make each day a little better.
Earning Your Trust Through Product 
Safety and Transparency 
Nothing is more important to us than ensuring that our 
products are safe for consumers and the environment. 
Providing people the information they need to make 
more informed choices, while continually improving 
our product portfolio with the product performance 
and ingredient preferences they seek, remains a core 
focus for the company. Last year, we committed to 
sharing more about our safety science and ingredient 
choices. We looked across all our product offerings 
and innovations to develop our Ingredient Citizenship 
Principles, which guide how we evaluate and share  
the ingredients we choose for our products: 
•   Relentlessly pursue the best and safest  
ingredients from both science and nature
•   Lead by sharing the what, where and how  
of our ingredients
•   Collaborate to solve big ingredients and  
materials challenges
Throughout our history, P&G has stood for products  
of superior value and performance. This requires 
the best and safest ingredients available — whether 
sourced from science or nature. Innovation with ingredients is an ever-evolving area where we invest 
many resources to develop new options and continually 
consider what is possible. This is evident in several of 
our recently launched products, which integrate new 
ingredients for a superior consumer experience. 
Not only are we innovating with product ingredients 
and sourcing choices, we are also sharing more about 
those choices with greater ingredient transparency. 
Our brand websites and pg.com offer more information 
than ever before about our ingredients. 
Additionally, our brand websites are offering more 
information about the safety processes we follow to 
ensure our products are safe to use as directed. 
Safe ingredients and products never go out of style — so 
we will continue innovating with ingredients to provide 
new solutions for life’s everyday demands. We are 
committed to collaborating on the biggest ingredient 
and materials challenges to ensure we continue to be  
a force for good and a force for growth — in all we do.
Tide purclean  integrates plant-
based surfactants — rather than 
petroleum-based — to achieve 
outstanding cleaning.
Herbal Essences Bio:renew  offers 
formulas which are 90% naturally 
derived — 90% naturally derived 
means that plant derived materials, 
mineral derived materials and 
water, all of which undergo limited 
processing, make up at least 90% 
of each bio:renew formula.
Pampers Pure  is crafted with 
premium cotton, soft plant-based 
materials and other thoughtfully 
selected ingredients to provide 
outstanding wetness protection 
and comfort for baby.
Tampax Pure  offers a 100% cotton 
core and a 90% plant-derived 
applicator.NEW INGREDIENTS, SUPERIOR EXPERIENCE
22Our Voice in Advertising and Media 
We’ve made a choice to step up and use our voice 
in advertising as a force for good and a force for 
growth — by taking a stand on equality. We recognize 
that P&G and our leadership brands can make a 
meaningful impact with our wide reach, as images 
and portrayals of people in advertising embed 
memories  which can lead to bias. That’s why, as the 
world’s largest advertiser, we’ve committed to use  
our voice to shed a light on bias and promote equality.Keeping Privacy and Security Strong 
Protecting Personal Information 
Our stakeholders — whether consumers, employees, 
shareholders or vendors — trust that P&G will ensure 
that appropriate privacy and information security 
controls will be in place to safeguard critical business 
and personal information and it is maintained with due 
confidentiality, appropriate integrity and are available 
when needed. Our Global Consumer Privacy Policy 
says that we respect personal information and take 
steps to protect it from loss, misuse or alteration and 
where appropriate, these steps can include technical 
measures like firewalls, intrusion detection and 
prevention systems, unique and complex passwords 
and encryption. We also use organizational and physical 
measures such as training staff on data processing 
obligations, identification of data incidents and risks, 
restricting staff access to personal information, and 
ensuring physical security, including appropriately 
securing documents when not being used. We are also 
committed to having an information security program 
that provides appropriate levels of protection for the 
types of data we hold.Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Consumers
We’ve made a choice  
to step up and use our  
voice in advertising as  
a force for good and  
a force for growth.
23Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Supply Chain
P&G cannot deliver the products to our 
consumers without collaboration from our 
supply chain partners and we are making 
intentional choices to leverage the footprint 
of our suppliers, buyers, and manufacturing 
sites to be a driver for good. From transparent 
sourcing practices that aid consumer 
decision-making to growing shareholder 
value through innovation-driving programs 
like global supplier diversity, P&G is proud  
to be a leader in supply chain responsibility.  
And for the last three years, we have been 
enrolling our supply chain partners in our 
Citizenship work via three strategic pillars: 
Supplier Diversity, Responsible Sourcing  
and Sustainable Innovation. To help with the broad conversation, our key partners 
are providing information and data on all five 
Citizenship areas via our annual Supplier Citizenship 
Survey, and participation in this grows every year. We 
had approximately 250 suppliers share their data and 
programs with P&G in 2018. Through this important 
engagement we were proud to learn that 80% of 
our respondents have “Defined and articulated their 
purpose, principles and values” and 84% have “Publicly 
committed to respecting human rights.” Regarding 
Sustainability, 78% of our suppliers “Track and report 
GHG emissions from manufacturing” and the same 
percentage of respondents “Have zero manufacturing 
waste to landfill sites.” To help suppliers improve 
metrics year over year, our Supplier Citizenship team 
launched Supplier Summits that allow P&G’s experts 
to share our learning journey in various areas directly 
with our suppliers. The first summit focused on 
Diversity & Inclusion and over 300 people joined our 
executive leaders and human resources professionals 
at P&G’s headquarters to hear about the programs and 
processes used within this Company. The intent of the 
summits is to inspire and catalyze change, creating 
ripple effects to achieve our Citizenship targets globally.
We are proud to be  
a leader in supply  
chain responsibility.
24Responsible Sourcing
Our vision is to be the company with the most 
responsible, ethical and transparent supply chain, 
which positively impacts the world’s greatest 
challenges. We refreshed our salient issues mapping 
and are in the process of summarizing the results and 
will be sharing on pgsupplier.com. This site houses all 
of our guidelines, expectations and policies that we ask 
our supply partners to understand and align to. Just 
as we take pride in our Purpose, Values and Principles, 
and employees are required to review our Worldwide 
Business Conduct Manual every year, we extend these 
expectations to our external business partners through 
our External Business Partner Guidelines. Working 
with likeminded suppliers is important as we will not 
knowingly condone or contribute to adverse human 
rights impacts caused by the actions of our business 
partners. When we become aware of an adverse impact, 
we engage to be part of the solution to address the 
issue or dilemma, including seeking to prevent or 
mitigate the adverse impact. The risk-based approach 
we employ leans on a network of strong buyers and 
supportive leadership to continually assess and improve 
the risk profile of our supply chains. We have clear owners and action plans to proactively 
remediate issues with labor standards, health and 
safety concerns, environmental issues and business 
ethics. We are in our third year of conducting social 
audits at our supplier’s facilities, focused on suppliers  
in Asia, South America and Europe. In these and  
other efforts, we build a robust system of business 
partners that is fully integrated and synchronized  
with our business and values.Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Supply Chain
25Supplier Diversity 
When our supplier ecosystem reflects the diversity 
of our consumers, our business grows and the 
communities in which we live and operate thrive. P&G’s 
Supplier Diversity program in the United States aims to 
spend with businesses owned by minorities, women, 
LGBT+, disabled people and U.S. Veterans. For the 
last twelve years, we have spent more than $2 billion 
annually with diverse-owned businesses in the U.S. 
And now we are excited to expand globally. We made 
a public commitment at the Global Citizen Festival in 
2017 to spend at least $100 million with woman-owned 
businesses outside the U.S., and we are thrilled to 
have surpassed this target ahead of schedule. Supplier 
diversity is a competitive advantage for us and we are 
committed to drive economic empowerment across 
our end-to-end supply chain. In addition to our focus 
on spending with diverse-owned suppliers, we are also 
playing a leadership role to increase the number of 
women in the creative pipeline via our Gender Equality 
work. This also connects with workforce Diversity & 
Inclusion priorities employed within P&G and shared 
with our suppliers for reapplication. 
Supplier inclusion in our Citizenship work is a clear 
business imperative because: 
•  Diverse teams are more innovative than  
homogeneous teams. 
•  Suppliers with diverse workforces outperform  
non-diverse suppliers in our formal Supplier 
Performance Development Process surveys. •  Our strong supplier diversity program delivers value 
to our key retail customers. 
•  Building economic equality in our supply chain leads 
to increased loyalty and purchase power with the 
consumers we strive to serve. 
We are proud to have the hard work of our organization 
recognized externally this fiscal year by awarding P&G: 
•  America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business 
Enterprises, Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council (WBENC) 
•  Corporation of the Year, Ohio Minority Supplier 
Development Council (OMSDC) 
Sustainable Innovation
One way we will reduce our environmental footprint 
is through external partnerships. We are collaborating 
with a team of key suppliers to solve our supply chain’s 
most challenging problems, driving innovation that 
is sustainable for both the business and the planet. 
We are developing unique plans to optimize our 
supply chains that drive improved circularity in water, 
waste and climate. This is linked to our Ambition 
2030 strategy that aims to enable and inspire positive 
impact on the environment and the world around us. Doing the Right Thing  
with Our Supply Chain
We are developing unique plans to 
optimize our supply chains that drive 
improved circularity in water,  
waste and climate.
26Speaking Up
Our employees hold themselves and one 
another accountable for operating with trust 
and integrity, and for stepping up as leaders 
and owners of the business. We are committed 
to creating a work environment that fosters 
open communication and supports employees 
in reporting potential violations of Company 
policies or the law. Employees and individuals 
in our operations or extended supply chain can 
report violations at the Worldwide Business 
Conduct Helpline, which is staffed by an 
independent third party 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week and includes, where permitted 
by local law, an anonymous way to report 
concerns. We are committed to reviewing all 
allegations of wrongdoing with trained teams 
who ensure thorough, impartial, and fact-based 
investigations. Proper investigation is essential 
to promoting a culture of integrity, reducing the 
likelihood of incidents occurring and increasing 
willingness to proactively raise concerns. It is an 
important part of our commitment to prevent 
and detect wrongdoing. Retaliation for raising 
concerns in good faith is inconsistent with our 
Values of Integrity and Trust and simply will not  
be tolerated. 
We are committed to creating 
a work environment that 
fosters open communication 
and supports employees in 
reporting potential violations.
27Stakeholder Engagement
We acknowledge that improving transparency, respecting human and labor rights and 
sourcing responsibly is an enormous challenge, and progress will be made through a 
journey of collaboration and engagement with our stakeholders. Thus, we seek meaningful 
collaboration and engagement with our stakeholders as we work to be a good corporate 
neighbor and to improve lives in the communities where we live and work. 
Employees
Every year, we survey all employees globally — from 
plant technicians to our office population — via the 
P&G Survey. Almost 80% of employees make their 
opinions count by responding to the survey, and their 
feedback is extremely valuable in assessing what we 
do well as a Company and where we can improve, and 
we develop and execute actions plans in response. 
When we compare our results against our external 
benchmarking group, we find P&G scoring higher than 
the average of our peer group on the majority of our 
benchmarking questions — showing that we remain  
an Employer of Choice versus competition. Every year, 
the P&G Survey proves how ingrained our PVPs are in 
the organization. Continuing to uphold and safeguard 
our PVPs consistently is the top response to “What 
should not change about P&G?” Investors
We value our relationships with all of our shareholders. 
Engagement with shareholders builds mutual 
understanding and a basis for progress, and the 
input we receive from them significantly impacts 
and informs our corporate governance practices. 
Senior management, our investor relations team, 
and subject matter experts from the Company 
maintain a year‐round dialogue with investors to 
gain their perspectives on current issues and address 
any questions or concerns, and we make our board 
members available for engagement with shareholders 
when appropriate. The Company’s top 100 institutional 
shareholders collectively own nearly 50% of the 
Company’s outstanding shares of common stock,  
and we generally focus our proactive shareholder 
outreach efforts on these shareholders. We conduct 
meetings with institutional shareholders in person, 
via telephone calls, and one‐on‐one at conferences 
throughout the year. We also routinely respond to 
individual shareholders and other stakeholders who 
provide feedback about our business.QUOTES FROM THE EMPLOYEE SURVEY 
“PVPs are the thing that sets P&G 
above other companies. I can trust 
that P&G and its employees will 
always do the right thing.” 
“Our PVPs are vitally important;  
it’s what makes me proud to work  
for this Company.”
“Our PVPs give us an edge to  
stand proud in the community  
and industry.”
28Consumers
We are committed to providing products and services 
that can help improve the lives of our consumers 
all over the world. In developing and marketing our 
products, we adopt a “Consumer Is Boss” approach to 
ensure that we delight consumers by launching new 
products and product improvements that genuinely 
meet their needs. We actively encourage consumers 
to contact us because we want to hear about our 
consumers’ experiences with our products. We feel 
very privileged that consumers care enough about  
our products to contact us. 
Communities
Each P&G production facility has site-specific 
activities to build appropriate and constructive 
relationships with industry associations, residential 
and business neighbors, action groups, thought 
leaders, and news media. Depending on the cultures 
and interests of individual communities, this can 
range from regular official meetings, during which 
new information is shared or questions are answered, 
to more informal meetings.Authorities: Local — Regional — Global
P&G is focused on meeting consumer needs in the 
countries where we do business, while creating 
value for our shareholders and continuing to be a 
good corporate citizen. Guided by our PVPs, P&G 
appropriately engages in the political process to 
ensure that the interests of our employees, consumers 
and shareholders are fairly represented at all levels 
of government around the world. We are committed 
to being transparent about our political involvement 
globally, and our policies and procedures on 
appropriate contact with government officials  
prohibit bribery and any kind of improper influence.
Our approach to taxes is also based on our PVPs. 
Consistent with the law and international norms, we 
believe tax should follow business substance and that 
profits are generated where key business activities 
take place. We are committed to the highest level of 
tax compliance. We observe and adhere to the tax law, 
the underlying tax policy intent, and the disclosure  
and reporting requirements. External Business Partners
We work closely with our external business partners 
to ensure that our products are sourced responsibly. 
P&G’s Sustainability Guidelines for External Business 
Partners set our expectations with our supply base 
regarding Social and Environmental Responsibility.  
We actively seek business relationships with partners 
that share these values, and that promote high 
standards within their own supply chains. 
Non-Governmental Organizations 
(NGOs): Local — Regional — Global
We frequently enter into dialogue with NGOs to 
understand their concerns and cares. NGOs and our 
engagement with an NGO can vary by area of interest 
(e.g., environmental, consumer, human rights) and  
by geographic links (from local to global).
Principal Industry and Business 
Associations
We hold membership in many industry and business 
associations whose activities are related to the 
Company’s. These associations provide a forum for  
us to promote and defend our interests in the broader 
industry context while providing a lawful platform for 
joint research, issue monitoring and advocacy, and 
sharing of best practices. Participation in business 
associations is controlled by Company policy to ensure 
such industry activities have the right governance  
and oversight. Stakeholder Engagement
We appropriately engage in the 
political process to ensure that 
the interests of our employees, 
consumers and shareholders are 
fairly represented at all levels of 
government around the world.
29Community Impact
30As a Company committed to being a force for good and a force  
for growth, we believe we have a responsibility to give back  
to the communities where we live and work. Providing support  
to communities around the world is one of our Citizenship priorities  
and rooted in who we are. Our innovative technology in the P&G 
Purifier of Water packets can transform lives. Our brands are well 
positioned to help people in times of disaster. And each region 
has unique programs to impact lives at a local level. We can make 
a tremendous positive difference in the lives of so many, and we 
embrace the opportunity to make the world a better place.
31HIGHLIGHT
Transforming Lives Through  
the Power of Clean Water
This year marked a major milestone for our signature 
Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program. In partnership 
with more than 150 organizations around the world, 
we achieved our goal of providing 15 billion liters of 
clean drinking water. We are now accelerating our 
efforts to help provide clean drinking water to even 
more people by delivering 25 billion liters worldwide by 
2025. The program uses a powdered water purification 
technology, invented by a P&G laundry scientist, that 
has been transforming communities by improving 
health, enabling education and increasing economic 
opportunities for more than 15 years. With just one  
P&G Purifier of Water packet, a bucket, a stick and 
a clean cloth, a family can turn 10 liters of dirty, 
potentially deadly water into clean, drinkable water  
in only 30 minutes.
We pledge to deliver
25 billion
liters of clean drinking water  
worldwide by 2025.
32HIGHLIGHT
There During Times of Need
In times of disaster, having a clean shirt to wear or 
being able to brush your teeth, wash your hair or put 
on deodorant can help restore a sense of normalcy. 
Providing these everyday essentials is why it is 
important to be there in times of disaster. This year, 
we provided disaster relief to those impacted by more 
than 25 global disasters, including the massive wildfires 
in California and hurricanes Florence and Michael that 
devastated parts of the U.S. When the worst flooding in 
a century hit the south Indian state of Kerala, through 
our partnership with NGOs such as Americares and 
World Vision, we reached more than 50,000 people 
through the distribution of health and hygiene 
products. We also provided enough P&G Purifier of 
Water packets to provide 15 million liters of clean water. 
In Indonesia, we provided products and monetary 
recovery support after the deadly earthquake in 
Lombok and the earthquake and tsunami in Sulawesi.
33HIGHLIGHT
Providing Help in Turkey
For four years, we have been working with the 
Turkish Red Crescent to provide hygiene products 
to Syrian refugees living in camps in Turkey. We are 
also providing necessities to young students and 
others in Turkey who cannot afford them. Through 
our partnership with the Red Crescent, we are able 
to identify these groups and have donated more 
than 1.7 million products from our Fabric and Home 
Care, Grooming, Health Care and Baby and Feminine 
Care categories in the last four years. Our Ariel team 
is also making a difference through a program that 
collects clothes at Migros stores, cleans them and 
donates them to children in need. Since 2013, we 
have reached tens of thousands of children through 
this program. 
Over the last four  
years, we have donated 
1.7 million
products to those  
in need in Turkey.
34HIGHLIGHT
P&G Hope School Becomes  
the Experimental Field for 
Advanced Education
2019 marks the 30th anniversary of Project Hope in 
China. We have helped build and renovate more than 
200 Hope Schools in China and have now shifted 
the focus of this program to emotional wellbeing, 
leveraging the power of art to help children in rural 
areas. We have secured a three-year partnership with 
the China National Centre of Performing Arts (NCPA). 
Following a successful first year, a new original 
Hope School Children’s Drama Show, “A Little Wish,” 
premiered at NCPA. This and the previous drama, 
“Spring Lily,” were created based on true stories of 
P&G Hope School students. Meanwhile, teachers  
and students completed a three-phase Drama  
in Education training and performed a musical  
open class called “Chinese Sights and Sounds”  
in Beijing. This training enables children to learn 
abstract knowledge through interesting interactions 
and role-play. By turning education from passive 
learning to active learning, P&G Hope Schools are 
advancing education through creative, experimental 
playgrounds.
We are also working with our customer RT-Mart 
to enhance P&G Hope Schools’ hygiene facilities 
through a “buy one P&G product donate one RMB” 
campaign. This initiative successfully achieved its  
one million RMB target.
In addition, for years our employees have been 
teaching students about handwashing, oral care, 
puberty education, and self defense.
35HIGHLIGHT
Vicks Touch of Care  
Australia
To address the issue of homelessness in Australia, 
Vicks partnered with Mission Australia, one of 
Australia’s largest not-for-profit community service 
organizations, for its new ‘Touch of Care’ campaign. 
Through a powerful video, Vicks tells the real-life 
story of a young woman who fled her home to escape 
domestic violence, leading her to experience periods 
of homelessness as a high school student. The care 
she received from a teacher helped her to turn her 
life around and inspired her to dedicate her life to 
caring for others. Today she is a mom and a proud 
case manager with Mission Australia — connecting 
with the Vicks brand’s purpose to touch lives and 
provide care for millions of families around the world.
36Community Impact
Message from Marc Pritchard 
The P&G Children’s Safe  
Drinking Water Program 
Disaster Relief 
Habitat for Humanity 
Brand Programs — Baby Care 
Brand  Programs— Fabric Care 
Brand Programs — Health and Hygiene Education  
Skills Training  
Product Donation  
Employee Contributions/Volunteering  
Employee Volunteering — Cleanups 
Awards  
Employee Wellbeing 
37“We use our brands to do good every day 
and are uniquely positioned to help those in 
our communities. Being a good corporate 
citizen is core to who we are as a Company, 
and our founders made giving back a 
priority and a bedrock principle in how we 
do business. 
For years, we’ve been ensuring the 
communities where we operate remain 
strong by helping those we serve — and 
hope to serve — to thrive. This is both good  
for the world and for our business. 
We are leveraging our brands and our 
partnerships to give back. Our brands 
touch the lives of the five billion people we 
serve every day, and in times of disaster, 
our brands can bring a sense of normalcy 
and hope to those in need. Our ability to 
give back to our communities is greatly 
enhanced by the partnerships we’ve 
established, extending our reach and our 
capability. We are proud to share with you 
just a few of the stories that show how 
our brands and our people are making 
meaningful differences in communities 
around the world.” Message from  
Marc Pritchard
Chief Brand Officer
3839
The P&G Children’s Safe Drinking  
Water Program (CSDW)INTRODUCTION  ETHICS & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  COMMUNITY IMPACT  DIVERSITY & INCLUSION  GENDER EQUALITY  ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Celebrating 15 Billion Liters
World Water Day 2019 marked a major milestone for 
the P&G Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program —   
the achievement of its 2020 goal of delivering 15 billion 
liters of clean drinking water. We are now accelerating 
our efforts to help provide clean drinking water to even 
more people by delivering 25 billion liters — more than 
100 billion glasses of water — worldwide by 2025.
Since the program launched in 2004, we have worked 
closely with a network of more than 150 partners to 
raise awareness of the global water crisis and provide 
water to families in more than 90 countries through a 
simple purification process invented by a P&G laundry 
scientist. With just one packet, a bucket, a stick and a 
clean cloth, 10 liters of dirty, potentially deadly, water 
can be turned into clean, drinkable water in only  
30 minutes. 
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), 
nearly 844 million people globally do not have access 
to clean drinking water. UNICEF estimates that 
women and children spend 40 billion hours each 
year collecting and managing water that is often 
contaminated. The United Nations has prioritized 
the need to address this through UN Sustainable 
Development Goal #6 which aims to ensure clean 
water and proper sanitation for all by 2030.Since the CSDW Program launched in 2004, 
we have worked closely with a network of 
more than 150 partners to deliver our 2020 
goal a year early by delivering 15 billion liters 
of clean water to those in need.
39World  Water  Day 2019
To date, P&G’s efforts to provide clean water are 
transforming communities by improving health, 
enabling education and increasing economic 
opportunities.
To help promote awareness of the issue, we partnered 
with National Geographic during World Water Day to 
highlight our five “Water Champions.” 
Our Water Champions represent four of our largest 
partners a nd include:
World Vision: World Vision is building on the 
foundation of two billion liters of water already 
provided together, and they will use P&G packets as  
a bridge solution and in emergencies for more than 
one million people in more than ten countries in 
Africa  and Asia.
Save t he C hildren ( STC): S TC marked their 100th 
anniversary in 2019 and will deliver 100 million liters of 
clean water to families impacted by natural disasters 
and emergency situations in Ethiopia and Kenya.
Walmart Intern ation al: W almart In ternational  
is supporting the program to provide 100 million 
liters of clean water through the in-store  
1 purchase = 1 liter campaign in 2019.CARE International Kenya:  CARE will celebrate 15 
years of partnership with P&G by expanding the 
CSDW Program in Kenya to reach more than 100,000 
people through schools and clinics, while continuing 
the support of emergency response and hygiene 
education efforts helping 300,000 people in Ethiopia.
ACTIVATE
We also partnered with National Geographic and 
Global Citizen on the ACTIVATE series that brings 
awareness to some of the world’s most pressing issues 
like plastic, gender inequality and the lack of water  
and sanitation for so many. 
The premiere episode of the ACTIVATE series aired in 
September in the U.S., with the clean water episode 
airing on October 10. We worked with National 
Geographic and Global Citizen to produce two short 
videos that demonstrate the importance of clean  
water. View the two-minute character video and the 
one-minute video about the program below.“We are proud to have reached this 
15-billion-liter milestone and inspired
by the opportunity to make an even
greater impact through our new
goal. This life-changing technology
has helped many families over the
past 15 years, and we’re eager to help
even more in the years to come.”
DAVID TAYLOR  
Chairman of the Board, President 
and Chief Executive OfficerCELEBRATING
15 BILLION
LITERS OF CLEAN
DRINKING WATERCSDW World Water Day 
and ACTIVATE
40Providing Clean Water in South Africa
For the third year in a row, we partnered with Walmart 
in South Africa to raise awareness of the global water 
crisis and to help provide clean water to those in need. 
For every P&G product sold during the promotional 
period, we donated one day’s clean drinking water, 
totaling nearly 1.5 million days of clean water. P&G’s 
partner for Children’s Safe Drinking Water in Southern 
Africa is the Gift of the Givers Foundation, the largest 
disaster relief organization of African origin on the 
continent. When tropical cyclone Idai wreaked havoc 
across Mozambique and Zimbabwe in early 2019, Gift 
of the Givers quickly mobilized and were able to bring 
clean water and other essentials to those in need.  
Gift of the Givers also distributed the P&G Purifier of 
Water to communities in Southern Africa where there 
is no access to clean water sources. Celebrating World Water Day in Martin 
Garcia Island
On March 22nd in Argentina, we celebrated World 
Water Day in a special location: Martin Garcia Island 
National Historical Heritage and Nature Reserve where 
the community will benefit from the P&G Children’s 
Safe Drinking Water Program.
Different key stakeholders, such as top management 
and commercial team of Walmart, key government 
officials, NGOs, media, influencers and employees 
visited the iconic island to celebrate this important day. 
All people traveled more than two hours to get to the 
island, which due to various problems with the tide of 
the river, cannot access clean drinking water. 
Thanks to the CSDW Program, many people from the 
island will benefit.
CSDW Country Highlights
41Engaging the Community to Transform 
Lives in Brazil
Rodrigo Faro, Children Safe Drinking Water 
ambassador, announced the first digital campaign  
to raise awareness of the water issue in Brazil by 
demonstrating how the P&G Purifier of Water  
packets work and asked consumers to do their part. 
Users participated in the campaign by visiting  
www.doeaguapura.com.br and clicking on the 
donation button. After a quick registration form,  
they donated a day of clean drinking water to families 
in riverside communities in Amazonas, Minas Gerais 
and southernmost communities from Bahia. “In Brazil, 
we have more than 35 million people without access to 
treated water. It is a very serious problem that affects 
mainly the children. Our purpose has always been to 
improve people’s lives, and this includes acting directly 
on issues essential to their day-to-day life. That is why 
we want to invite consumers and all Brazilians to join 
us in this initiative that will transform lives. This is the 
special way we have chosen to celebrate our 30-year 
anniversary,” said Juliana Azevedo, P&G Brazil 
President. The campaign was able to raise 567,000 
days of clean drinking water.Improving Health and Hygiene 
in Pakistan 
We announced commitments for our Paak Saaf 
Pakistan initiative over the next three years. The 
initiative is designed to provide 50 million liters of 
clean drinking water through the P&G Children’s 
Safe Drinking Water Program, helping an estimated 
250,000 people. It also creates cleanliness and  
hand-washing awareness for five million children  
via the Safeguard School Education Program.
 “The reach and impact of its 
programs to date and P&G’s 
continued commitment toward 
this cause will continue to make a 
meaningful difference in the lives  
of the Pakistani people.”
DR. ARIF ALVI  
President of Pakistan
The President of Pakistan, Dr. Arif Alvi, highlighted the 
importance of clean drinking water and sanitation as 
key priority areas of the Prime Minister’s Clean Green 
Pakistan Movement. He also emphasized the need 
for creating awareness about this at the grassroots 
level commenting, “Ensuring the health of our people 
requires that we invest in adequate infrastructure to 
increase access to safe and affordable drinking water, as well as sanitation facilities. It is also very important 
to create awareness about conservation of water, 
sanitation and good health and hygiene practices at 
the grass-root levels. P&G deserves to be commended 
for making continued efforts to help improve health 
and hygiene of Pakistani communities. The reach  and impact of its programs to date and P&G’s 
continued commitment towards this cause will continue to make a meaningful difference in the  
lives of the Pakistani people.”
P&G was joined by its community partner HOPE, 
represented by Chairperson Dr. Mubina Agboatwalla, 
for the third consecutive World Water Day, to raise 
awareness about the clean drinking water crisis and 
help transform lives through the CSDW Program. 
According to Water Aid, in Pakistan around 22 million 
people do not have access to clean water, and 19,500 
children under five years of age die every year as a  
result of drinking dirty water and having no access  
to sanitation.
Through CSDW, we have made available more than 
875 million liters of clean drinking water to Pakistani 
communities. This is enough to provide millions of 
people with clean drinking water for three months. 
We have made more than  
875 million 
liters of clean water available 
in Pakistani communities.CSDW Country Highlights
42Inspiring Children to Make a Difference
As part of the CSDW Program in Peru, United Way 
launched a contest in schools benefitted by the 
program in Lurin (Lima). Children were invited to 
participate in a three-step contest that included: 
1. P resenting a poster with the correct water
purification process,
2. P roducing a video explaining the water purification
process step by step, and
3. C rafting something with the empty P&G Purifier
of Water packets.Posters and videos presented the process clearly and 
correctly, and all the art pieces crafted by the children 
with the empty packets overflowed with creativity and 
imagination. A group of students who worked together 
for the contest presented a TV made out of P&G Purifier 
of Water packets and shared their story behind the 
work: they got inspired from watching P&G brand 
commercials on TV. They showed the purifier process 
step-by-step by channel zapping on their handmade 
TV indicating they always saw P&G on TV. This team 
also manufactured purses, wallets and boxes,  
inspiring the rest of the class to work with their  
own empty packets.
Coming Together To Support 
Clean Water
To support the Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program, 
employees in Germany, Austria and Switzerland 
implemented a 16-week donation campaign. They set 
an ambitious goal of collecting donations equating to 
five million liters of clean drinking water. Employees 
donated via canteen units, in game show-like raffles 
and in team challenges to raise contributions for 
the program. The highlight was the distribution of 
hundreds of thermal bottles in Schwalbach, Germany, 
enabling us to overdeliver on our target. Partnering  for Clean Water  in Viet nam
We introduced the P&G Children’s Safe Drinking Water 
Program in Viet nam in 2016 with the partnership of  
the Red Cross Vi etnam. In 2018 , we helped thousa nds 
of households —  those hit by s evere typhoons  and  
floods in An Giang , Dong Thap, Nghe An, Ha Tinh,  and 
Thanh Hoa.
In 2018, we marked the first-ever partnership between 
P&G Vietnam and the biggest retailer in Vietnam-
Saigon CO.OP. With each product sold, P&G 
contributed one day of clean drinking water. Through 
the partnership, this meaningful program’s message 
has been spread widely across Vietnam, and clean 
drinking water has reached more people in need.
Engaging the Communit y in To ronto
To kickoff the Walmart in-store initiative where buying 
one P&G product results in the donation of a liter of 
clean water through the P&G Children’s Safe Drinking 
Water Program, students from a local Toronto high 
school participated in packing 2,000 hygiene kits that 
included P&G Purifier of Water packets and hygiene 
items donated by P&G. Once assembled, the kits were 
delivered by GlobalMedic, a local disaster relief 
organization, to families affected by the current crisis 
in Somalia.
CSDW Country Highlights
43Disaster Relief 
Globally, P&G directly responded to more 
than 25 disasters in FY18/19. This included 
flooding and an earthquake in Peru, 
historic flooding in Kerala and cyclone 
Fani in India, cyclone Idai in Mozambique, 
Malawi and Zimbabwe, the earthquake 
in Lombok, the earthquake/tsunami in 
Sulawesi, Indonesia, and flooding in China. 
We work with a global network of disaster 
relief organizations including the American 
Red Cross, Americares, Direct Relief, Global 
Medic, International Medical Corps, Matthew 
25: Ministries, Save the Children, and World 
Vision, and we support their efforts when 
responding to international disasters. Often 
these organizations are some of the first 
to send response teams to begin assisting 
immediately with recovery efforts. Last year, 
we provided more than 20 emergency relief 
grants to enable the provision of lifesaving 
care services and distribution of products 
and other critical supplies, including the  
P&G Purifier of Water packets to provide 
clean drinking water. Kerala Floods and Cyclone Fani
Through our partnership with NGOs, such as 
Americares and World Vision, we supported 
approximately 50,000 families when the state of Kerala 
in India experienced one of the most devastating 
floods. We donated health and hygiene kits made 
of P&G products and distributed P&G Purifier of 
Water delivering more than 15 million liters of clean 
drinking water. Our employees also made monetary 
contributions to set up health camps across the state.  
In 2019, as a part of the relief operations in the 
aftermath of cyclone Fani in Odisha, we supported 
more than 10,000 families with health and hygiene  
kits comprised of our products.Comforts of Home After  
Devastating Destruction
As a proud sponsor of the 2018 PyeongChang 
Olympics, we felt obligated to help after a massive 
wildfire hit the east coast of South Korea, leaving 
thousands in despair. Considered one of the deadliest 
wildfires a decade, it burned more than 1,757 hectare 
of mountains and more than 1,000 people lost their 
homes. To bring the comforts of home to those 
impacted, we delivered Pantene shampoo and 
conditioner, Oral-B toothbrushes, and Gillette  
razors to shelters for those in need. 
25+
P&G responded to  
more than 25 disasters  
in FY18/19.
44Earthquake in Lombok
As a result of the 6.4-magnitude earthquake in 
Lombok, more than half of the homes in that 
community were destroyed or severely damaged.  
We provided emergency grant support, which 
supports the work of our NGO partners, with a focus on 
child protection, water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) 
and education in emergencies. We also partnered with 
the Ministry of Health to provide Pampers, Pantene 
and Oral B products to support displaced children  
and families in the most affected communities.  
Our employees assisted by collecting essential items  
to support business partner employees and their families who were impacted by the earthquake. 
Hurricanes Florence and Michael 
and the California Wildfires
We know that after a natural disaster, our brands can 
play an important role in helping provide the comforts 
of home and bring a sense of normalcy to those in 
need. This year in the U.S., we responded to disasters 
across the country including hurricanes Florence and 
Michael in the southeast, the California wildfires and 
the Dayton, Ohio, area tornados. In partnership with 
Mathew 25: Ministries, the P&G mobile relief program 
distributed almost 6,000 P&G personal care kits and 
tens of thousands of products from brands including, 
Always, Bounty, Charmin, Dawn, Mr. Clean and Pampers. 
The Tide Loads of Hope program washed, dried and 
folded more than 6,300 loads of laundry and distributed 
almost 10,000 Tide Pods. We’re thankful to be able to 
help communities to by providing products and services 
which can make a meaningful difference during a very 
difficult time. We’ve heard time and time again from that simple acts of being able to wash your hair, apply 
deodorant or slip on a clean shirt can have an uplifting effect on a person’s day. Check out the ACTIVATE videos 
showing the impact of this work:
We also introduced a new product, Zevo, an insect 
prevention system that uses friendly ingredients, that 
is new to our disaster relief efforts and included in our 
distribution program. Learn more about that story: 
Floods and Landslides in Japan
Record-breaking torrential rains across western Japan 
in early July 2018 created widespread flooding and 
landslides that killed more than 200 people. The disaster 
was said to be the worst of its kind in the country in 
the past 36 years, as more than 800,000 households 
were affected. In addition to damage to homes and 
infrastructure, hundreds of thousands of families were 
left without electricity or clean water. Communities 
that grappled with the flooding were also affected 
by scorching summer temperatures near 90 degrees. 
P&G Japan immediately worked with several key 
stakeholders to support people in need in the affected 
area. We donated products such as Febreze, Ariel, Joy and Pantene for people at temporary shelters. We also 
donated $75,000 to Save the Children Japan,  who supported local government’s organizing spaces 
for children, preparation for school to reopen after 
summer vacation, material support for afterschool 
facilities, and more. In May 2019, the Minister of 
Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) provided a 
Certificate of Appreciation to P&G Japan recognizing 
our contribution.
P&G distributed nearly 
6,000 
personal care kits in the U.S.Disaster Relief 
45Celebrating 30 Years By Supporting 
the Community
In celebration of our 30th anniversary in Indonesia, 
employees wanted to serve the community 
and organized the #Gemilangdi30Tahun 
(#Shiningat30Years) Charity Concert. The event 
brought together many of our stakeholders, including 
consumers, customers, distributors, suppliers, media, 
NGO partners, members of the government, and  
P&G alumni. 
Building on our efforts to provide disaster relief for 
those impacted by the earthquakes and tsunami that 
struck Palu, Donggala and Lombok, the charity concert 
raised $220,000 for the rehabilitation efforts to help 
build 100 school facilities in these disaster-struck areas. 
The charity concert was led by our Brand Ambassador, 
Anggun C. Sasmi, who is also an international singer. 
There was a strong turnout, with more than  
2,700 in attendance.  Helping After Disaster
P&G China supported more than 10,000 households 
in Sichuan, Shandong and Jiangxi hit by the worst 
rainstorms and flooding in the last 70 years. In 
September 2018, 13 cities in Shandong were severely 
hit by a typhoon. In June 2019, 970,000 people in Jiang 
Xi province were hit by the heavy storm. P&G China 
partnered with One Foundation, one of our disaster 
relief NGO partners, and shipped needed products 
and Safeguard hand-washing packs to affected areas, 
helping more than 10,000 families maintain healthy 
and clean post-disaster lives. 
Giving a Helping Hand in Peru
Due to its geography, Peru is a vulnerable country 
for natural disasters. During the early months of the 
year, the coast and some areas of the highlands face 
a tough season of heavy rains and mudslides due to 
the El Niño phenomenon. This year was no different, 
with four regions declared states of emergency and 
in need immediate help. P&G Peru helped those impacted through our brands and P&G Purifier of 
Water packets, providing a sense of comfort to families whose lives were disrupted by the flooding. In alliance 
with Soluciones Empresariales para la Pobreza (SEP) 
and Food Bank Peru, we helped more than a thousand 
families. The help sent to Piura, one of the most affected 
areas, assisted one of the overcrowded shelters in the 
area. The lack of space for storage and the difficulty to 
transport tons of water bottles were mitigated through 
our Purifier of Water packets. People worked together 
to collect rain and river water and turn it into clean 
drinking water. 
Being Prepared
P&G Japan created a booklet of “Family Care and Preparedness (BOSAI)” working with an expert local NGO in 2016. The booklet captured our disaster 
preparedness thinking and was designed to help 
families with small children maintain the comforts of 
home when faced with disasters. Our partner NGO, 
Olus Arts, interviewed parents who lived through 
the great Tohoku earthquake in 2011. This manual 
reflects their learnings and is available for download in 
Japanese or English. 
Since 2017, Kobe City has been distributing this manual 
at all nursery schools and kindergartens within the city 
for parents to be prepared in case of natural disasters.P&G helps with relief 
efforts after natural 
disasters in China.
Disaster Relief 
46P&G employees around the world continued 
to put their muscles and talents to good 
use for the benefit of families served by 
Habitat for Humanity. Our collaboration with 
Habitat for Humanity International is our 
largest participation program worldwide 
as employees helped build and renovate 
homes with families in need of a decent place to live in more than 20 locations 
around the world. Although P&G is not in 
the construction business, our employees 
embrace these volunteer opportunities 
because the brands they work on —  
Bounty, Swiffer, Tide, Ariel, Mr. Clean, and 
more — help keep homes and homeowners 
clean and comfortable. In 2018 and 
2019, employees partnered with Habitat 
families to benefit nearly 2,500 people by 
contributing thousands of hours of volunteer 
time. Families from Chile to Indonesia to 
Canada to Kenya to the UK and countries  
in between were part of this year’s program. 
We are proud to celebrate this global 
partnership!Singa pore  
We continued our long-term partnership with 
Habitat for Humanity with multiple volunteer events 
for Singapore employees. This year, 150 employees 
volunteered nearly 600 hours to help make their 
communities cleaner and build homes for families and 
elderly in need. In Singapore, we worked with Habitat 
on two home cleaning events and one litter picking 
event. Employees had their first experience to build in 
Batam, Indonesia, gifting a young family a new home. 
Thailand  
In Thailand, we built new houses to support single 
moms and low-income families in June. The program 
with Habitat for Humanity has been active since 2013.
Australia 
In Australia, Habitat for Humanity aims to build 
strength, stability and self-reliance through shelter. 
Five Australian employees were selected to volunteer 
in a Global Village Build, helping to build an entire 
home for a family in need. For our 2019 program, this 
build took place in Nepal.
Vietnam 
P&G Vietnam and Habitat for Humanity Vietnam have 
been working together for years and have built many 
houses for families in Mekong Delta. 
Romania 
Between 2018 and 2022, Habitat for Humanity Romania 
is building 12 homes for low-income families who are in 
urgent need of decent and affordable homes. Twenty-
seven employees volunteered to work digging and 
pouring the foundation for the first  
four homes. 
In partnership with Habitat for 
Humanity, P&G volunteers have 
built homes in more than 20 
locations around the world.Habitat for Humanity
47Supporting Parents of Premature Babies 
In Turkey, one out of 10 babies are born premature and 
struggle at the start of life. Not only did Prima (Pampers 
in Turkey) donate premature diapers to hospitals, we 
collaborated with a foundation for parents of preemies, 
El Bebek Gül Bebek Charity, to help. According to the 
latest research conducted by this foundation, 80% 
of mothers with a premature child feel guilty about 
their baby’s situation and 25% of them don’t get any 
psychological support during this difficult time. The 
guilt can make them detach from their babies when 
they most need their mother’s support and has an 
effect on baby’s happy and healthy development. 
Together with El Bebek Gül Bebek Charity, we created 
a new curriculum to support moms. To further raise 
awareness, we shared educational content, press 
releases and partnered with celebrities and influencers 
to spread the word. Around World Prematurity Day, we 
organized a charity run as part of the Istanbul Marathon 
to benefit El Bebek Gül Bebek and coordinated a 
special meeting with more than 50 parents of preemies. 
We also created an education fund with Elbebek Gül 
Bebek Preemie Charity to organize education seminars 
for preemie parents. As a result, we reached more than 800 preemie 
parents in addition to the donation of hundreds of 
thousands of preemie diapers. Survey results show:
99% of participants feeling more optimistic about 
the future
99% o f participants felt supported
95% o f participants believe that they can handle 
problems b etter
98% of the participants feel more confident
97% of the participants feel more relaxed
Pampers — Helping the Smallest 
of the Small
Pampers has been dedicated to the happy, healthy 
development of babies since our very first diaper more 
than 50 years ago and what inspired us to create a 
diaper for the smallest, most vulnerable babies, as tiny 
as 800 grams. In the Hong Kong market, we worked 
with the Council of Early Childhood Education & 
Services for supporting preemie diapers for premature 
infants and professional consultation services to ease 
stress of preemies’ parents from different aspects.  
To date, more than 200,000 preemie diapers have  
been donated. 
In the Taiwan market, we aligned with five hospitals 
and donated more than 70,000 Pampers diapers to 
support preemie babies and their families. 
Brand Programs — Baby Care
Pampers is dedicated  
to the happy, healthy 
development of babies —
from preemie to toddlers. 
48Happy Baby, Happy Mom
The Pampers team in Japan supported the “Thank you, 
Sankyu” Project with Japan Red Cross. The intent is to 
support all moms and babies around the world. The 
team collected donations for the Japan Red Cross to 
help provide necessary goods for babies and moms 
in Africa. Events were held in the office in Kobe, Tokyo 
and in plants during the fiscal year.Doing Good at the Akashi Plant
The 37-year-old Pampers plant in Akashi City, Japan 
has always been a good partner to our local cities. As 
part of the city’s tax program that reduces taxes for 
those who donate to local municipalities, Pampers 
was registered as an option for taxpayers to choose. 
The registration of Pampers in Akashi City’s return gift 
enabled Akashi City to attract 19 times more tax payers 
versus a year ago with Pampers being ranked in the 
top four choices among all the return gifts! In addition 
to this, we wanted to expand our impact on the 
community. Employees banded together focusing on 
babies and children in the world suffering from limited 
access to medical care. Linking this aspiration with our 
existing recycling program, the Akashi plant launched 
the “Vaccines with Plastic Bottle Cap” campaign.  
This campaign converts collected PET bottle caps into 
vaccines by donating the profit obtained by selling 
the PET cap pebbles. With the strong passion of our 
people, the PET bottle cap collection rapidly increased, resulting into a total of 16,000 PET bottle caps, 
equivalent to 200 polio vaccines. The Akashi plant  
will continue its efforts to deliver happiness to the world’s babies and children through not just our 
products, but also through our daily commitments.
We supported the “Thank 
you, Sankyu” Project with 
Japan Red Cross which 
aims to support moms and 
babies around the world. Brand Programs — Baby Care
49Tide  Loads  of Hope
In the wake of six different disasters this fiscal year, our 
Tide Loads of Hope program washed more than 6,300 
loads of laundry at multiple locations in the U.S. These 
included hurricanes Florence and Michael, wildfires in 
California, flooding throughout Nebraska and Missouri, 
and numerous tornadoes across the country. In 
addition, nearly 10,000 Tide Pods were distributed 
during this time frame. 
In 2005, in the devastating wake of Hurricane Katrina, 
we created The Tide Loads of Hope mobile laundry 
program to offer much-needed free laundry services 
to families on the Gulf Coast. Recognizing that clean 
clothes can mean so much — particularly at a time 
when clothes are often all that people have left —  
the Tide team created a mobile laundromat where 
survivors, first responders, and volunteers could bring 
their clothes to be washed, dried, and returned to them 
f
ree of charge. The resilience and spirit of the people 
of New Orleans inspired Tide to expand the Loads of 
Hope program to help more families across the U.S. 
Since then, the program has washed and dried more 
than 68,000 loads of laundry for nearly 50,000 families 
across the U.S. and Canada.For Sundar Raman, President – Fabric Care North 
America, whose division runs the program, making 
a difference is all about teamwork, timing, and a 
sensitive, personal touch. “When disaster strikes, our 
Corporate Disaster Relief team reaches out to the 
people on the forefront — like the Red Cross, Matthew 
25: Ministries, and FEMA — and they determine when 
is the right time and what is the right location for a 
service like Loads of Hope,” he said. “We want to be 
able to deliver clean clothes to people at those specific 
moments when all they have are the clothes on their 
back. The simple act of wearing your own clean clothes 
means so much to people. It’s self-esteem, it’s a sense 
of confidence, it’s like ‘okay I can rebuild starting back 
up from this point’ and you see all of those emotions 
encapsulated in that moment when people pick up 
their clean clothes.”
Tide Loads of Hope has expanded from one truck 
to two mobile units, allowing us to respond more 
effectively and to more places when needed. 
Depending on the scale of the disaster, we will deploy 
one or both trucks, or we may split the trucks to cover 
a larger area if there is widespread destruction. One 
truck is outfitted with 12 energy-efficient Whirlpool 
washers and dryers and can do 100 wash/dry cycles 
a day. The second is outfitted with eight washers and 
nine dryers and can do 200 wash/dry cycles a day. We 
have been everywhere from New York to Florida to 
Texas to California to provide people recovering from 
disaster some of the basic essentials.Brand Programs — Fabric Care
washed 6,300
loads of laundry
responded to  Six
disasters in the U.S.
distributed  10,000
Tide pod samplesThis fiscal year,  
Tide Loads of Hope:
50Laundry D ay
In our hometown of Cincinnati, we wanted to use 
our brands to help those in our backyard, so the idea 
of Free Laundry Day was born. We took over a local 
laundry mat in Lower Price Hill, a low-income area and 
offered to wash clothes for free. In just four hours,  
volunteers washed many loads of laundry for lower-
income families at the P&G-supported Washing Well 
laundromat during a day that they were closed to the 
public. We gave out hundreds of scent beads and Tide 
Pod samples.
Offering Clean Clothes to the Homeless 
Clean clothes can empower, be a sign of dignity and 
lead to new opportunities. In Greece, Ariel Pods is 
partnering with a new start-up NGO, Ithaca, that 
undertakes the laundry of homeless people through a 
mobile laundry/drying unit. In our first year, we washed 
22 tons of clothes, and that is just the beginning.Connecting  for a Cause
In Turkey, we embrace the principles of collaboration 
and solidarity through a clothing donation campaign 
for children in need. Since 2010, people can bring 
their clothing donations to a Migros stores (one of 
largest retailers in Turkey). The Ariel team collects 
and cleans these clothes and then works with the 
Turkish Volunteers Association to deliver the clothes 
to children in need, as well as providing workshops for 
education and entertainment. In the seven years we 
have been doing this program, we have collected and 
cleaned nearly 390,000 pieces of clothing and have 
reached approximately 280,000 children. Interest in 
the campaign has increased year after year, thanks to 
high in-store v isibility and launch events featuring 
influencers, societies, celebrities, social media and 
word of mouth. 
Helping All Women Feel 
Beautiful in Israel
Pantene wants to empower women coping with 
cancer gain access to a free wig made from real hair, 
helping her to feel stronger. 
The power of this mission is that deep pockets alone 
cannot solve the social problem — it is the awareness of 
the importance to donate hair that Pantene is driving. 
Pantene is using its voice to engage more women to 
donate their hair under the campaign of a “Braid of 
Power.” Today, every women and girl in Israel can get  
a free wig. Loic Tasesl, P&G Europe President, joined the opening 
of a “Braid of Power” a wig making center that 
transitions wig production from distant countries  
to Israel, allowing perfect fit and fast response to  the patient’s needs. 
“Give Strength” to Women 
with Cancer 
Pantene, together with retail partners Delhaize/AB, 
made a call to all women to donate their ponytail to 
those who are fighting cancer. The campaign ran for 
its fifth year in Greece, third in Romania and will start 
soon in Serbia. This has turned into a movement with 
large awareness and thousands of women supporting 
the cause each year.
At Free Laundry Day, our team 
of 15 volunteers sponsored 
more than 120 loads of laundry for 40 lower-income families.
Brand Programs
51Since 2007, Safeguard hand-washing education 
program has helped 72 million children to develop 
healthy hand-washing habits. This program is not only 
strengthening the emotional bond with Safeguard 
China moms, it is also increasing awareness by 
educating them about the importance fighting germs. 
In FY17/18, Safeguard partnered with One Foundation, 
an innovative philanthropic organization and China’s 
first non-government public fundraising foundation, 
to further upgrade this program. More children from 
urban kindergartens and rural primary schools are now 
benefitting from hand-washing facilities, products and 
healthy habits education services. 
This year, Safeguard and One Foundation established a 
new charity project called #Hand-washing action# to 
turn one-way donations into two-way engagement by 
gaining more society resources and partners. This will 
help to significantly increase the number of children  
in rural areas who can have hand-washing resources 
and education. We are planning both online and in-
person connections with urban and rural children.  
The brand’s current plan is to communicate with 1,000 
urban primary schools or kindergarten and recruit five 
of them for in-depth cooperation. 
In Pakistan, we announced that we would continue  
to play an active role in empowering children across 
the country to become health and hygiene champions. 
Safeguard’s “Healthy New Year 2019” campaign has 
educated school children on the importance of promoting a clean, green country by engaging them  
to conduct cleanliness drives across ten major cities  
in Pakistan.
Since 1998, Commander Safeguard, Pakistan’s first 
super hero, has become an icon for children and has 
encouraged them to live a healthy lifestyle. In 2004,  
we launched the Safeguard School Education Program 
which has so far reached more than 19 million children, 
creating handwashing awareness across the country. 
Health and hygiene are core to our business, but also 
core to our commitment to those who need it the 
most. Oral-B partnered with the Red Cross in Spain  
to enable families and children in need to have access 
to proper oral health care, improving their overall 
present and future wellbeing. This year, we helped 
hundreds of children in different provinces with oral 
and dental health. Through the Red Cross projects we 
can help those who normally would have difficulties 
and limitations in getting access to this care.
Ausonia has partnered with the Spanish Association 
Against Cancer (AECC) for more than 10 years to 
increase awareness and support research to help fight 
the battle against breast cancer. Ausonia supports 
a research project and leverages a full marketing 
program (1 pack = 1 minute of research). This year 
marked a special milestone as the research we 
have been supporting had its findings published in 
the Science Translational Medicine Magazine. The 
project, led by Dr. Arribas, has addressed one of the most important challenges of immunotherapy: how 
to guide the immune system to target tumor cells 
and not healthy tissues. This breakthrough will result 
in new treatments combining targeted drugs with 
immunotherapy to be able to attack only the tumor 
cells of the patient.
Protecting a Life
P&G Taiwan has celebrated the 25-Year of the women’s 
health prevention program, “6 Minutes, Protect a 
Life,” that aims to promote the importance of regular 
cervical and breast cancer screening. The program has 
been influential in getting cervical and breast cancer 
screening covered by Taiwan health care. As a result, 
80% of cervical and breast cancer cases in Taiwan 
are now diagnosed at an early stage, leading to better 
treatment. When we started the program, cervical 
cancer was the biggest health threat to women with 
only 6% being screened. Under the partnership of 
the Ministry of Health & Welfare and P&G Taiwan’s 
commitment, the screening rate of cervical cancer has 
increased to 70%. More importantly, incidence rates 
and death from cervical cancer decreased dramatically 
by more than 70%. We took another breakthrough step 
by including breast cancer prevention into the program 
in 2002, as breast cancer has become another top 
health threat to women. This year, we refreshed and 
further extended program participation from women 
aged above 30 to teen girls by sharing the benefits 
of human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccinations. The 
program’s continuous efforts protected nearly three 
million women from breast and cervical cancer. We are 
committed to continuously help women live a healthy 
and beautiful life.  
Brand Programs — Health and Hygiene 
52Education
Becoming the Experimental Field for 
Advanced Educational Concept
2019 marks the 30th anniversary of Project Hope in 
China, and it is also the 23rd year of P&G’s cooperation 
with China Youth Development Foundation (CYDF) on 
our Hope School program. Since 2014, we have shifted 
the focus of this program, leveraging the power of art 
to help children in rural areas. 
Last year, we secured a three-year corporate citizen 
partnership with the National Centre of Performance 
Arts (NCPA). The first year’s practice proved to be a 
great success with a special edition of the children’s drama, “Spring Lily,” and a three-phrase Hope School 
teacher’s training on “Theater/Drama in Education.” 
This year, in May, we had an NCPA actor and actress 
visit our Hope School to conduct an art class. In August, 
a series of events, including an original children’s 
drama show, “A Little Wish,” and a special Open  
Class were held in Beijing, kicking off the second  
year’s cooperation.
Teachers from various Hope Schools completed a 
three-phrase training in past years. Together with their students, they also performed a musical open 
class called “Chinese Sights and Sounds — 24 pieces on Chinese Folk Tunes for Orchestra.” This represented 
the first time that the rural Hope School teachers and 
students had access to learn and practice a more 
advanced teaching theory and methodology ahead 
of their counterparts in urban schools. In Hope School daily class, children learned abstract knowledge 
in interesting interactions and role-play, turning 
education from passive to active. Helping Rural Students
One of the school programs in China continued its 
volunteering efforts this year. This health education 
program recruits employees to share handwashing, 
oral care, puberty education and anti-sexual assault 
information to students in rural areas. This year, 
employees helped nearly 2,300 students. We are  
not just providing a health lesson; we are bringing 
hope for a bright future to rural students. 
Volunteers  
help students 
in rural China.
53In partnership with Save the Children, we have 
continued to empower marginalized girls through 
holistic education across 40 state-run Kasturba 
Gandhi Girls Schools. A key area of our intervention 
is improving learning outcomes by bridging gaps in 
the existing and expected learning levels in children. 
We are working with partners to implement unique 
and innovative solutions that improve the learning o
utcomes in children. These include on-the-ground 
remedial learning camps, interventions in early 
childhood education, and digital remedial learning. We 
have partnered with Pratham Education Foundation 
to implement the Read India program which focuses 
on improving the learning gaps by engaging children 
in a combination of activities based on their learning 
level rather than their grade or age. Last year, we 
reached more than 500 schools and communities, 
impacting more than 26,000 children and saw the learning levels rise following our intervention. Before 
our intervention, only 25% of children were able to 
read and write as per their curriculum level. After the 
intervention, this increased to 70%. Similarly, there was 
a two-fold increase in the percentage of children who 
were able to do basic arithmetic after our intervention. 
We also identified “Early Childhood Education” as a 
key opportunity area in improving learning outcomes 
in children. The program aims at developing the 
appropriate school-readiness in children as they 
transition to formal schooling. We focus on improving the motor, cognitive, social-emotional, pre-language 
and pre-math skills in children aged 3–5 years. More 
than 60,000 children in India were helped last year  
as a result of this program. 
In 2017, Shiksha, in partnership with Educational Initiatives, launched a program to implement 
Mindspark, a computer-based adaptive learning 
solution in schools. The tool integrates pedagogy, 
teacher instruction, and a learning management 
system to help students learn mathematics and 
language. It analyses the learning levels of students  in language and mathematics by presenting them 
with questions in increasing levels of difficulty.  
When students answer incorrectly, they are provided a simple or detailed explanation or redirected to 
questions that strengthen the basic understanding. 
The program has been implemented in more than 
100 government schools where more than 20,000 
students have shown improvement in learning levels 
using Mindspark. Post intervention, the learning levels 
among students using Mindspark improved two-fold 
compared to the control group. The tool also provides 
teachers with information on the progress and learning 
levels of students which is used for effective classroom 
management and instruction. A case study of one of 
our programs on remedial learning can be found here:Education
P&G  Shiksha  — Improving Access 
to H olistic E ducation 
Quality education is the foundation of an individual’s 
development and of society at large. Studies indicate 
that lack of availability of quality infrastructure,  
gender inequality in access to education, and the 
gap in learning are significant barriers to achieving 
universal e ducation.
In 2005, P&G India launched its signature community 
impact program, P&G Shiksha, with an aim to provide 
children f rom  underprivileged b ackgrounds a ccess 
to holistic education. We focus our efforts in three 
main areas — improving education infrastructure, 
empowering marginalized girls through education, 
and improving learning outcomes. 
We have built and  
supported more than 
2,100 
schools across India.
54Turning a Classroom into a Home
In partnership with Penny Market in Romania, we 
have transformed a second classroom into a totally 
new space to welcome kids for their first experience 
with primary school in a classroom that feels like 
home. International Children’s Day came with a big 
surprise for the preparatory class students in Sohatu, a 
village from Calarasi County. P&G Romania and Penny 
Market turned their classroom into a magical world, 
where they can learn through playing. The space has 
been completely redecorated, so that children have 
an amazing experience in autumn, when their first 
experience in school begins. Omid Ghannadi, the 
architect involved in this edition of the program, has 
designed a friendly, colorful and encouraging space to 
help the little ones adjust to school, right from day one. Swimming to Succeed
As part of our ongoing effort to be an active and 
responsible citizen in the communities where we live 
and work, we are the title sponsor for a local Cincinnati 
swim program, Everybody In. The Everybody In 
Program makes it possible for an urban swim complex, 
Ziegler Park, to offer a free swim team, swim lessons, 
Saturday Hoops and a nearly-free summer camp to 
local residents. In its second year, more than  
40 children have benefitted from the grant. 
Ziegler Park serves all members of the community, 
many of whom are children who could not afford these 
programs. The Ziegler Rhinos Swim Team teaches 
dozens of children how to swim, while also providing 
programming and opportunities to compete in local 
swim meets. According to Rhinos Swim Coach Jane Spooner, the 
program instills confidence. “It is the most remarkable 
experience watching children who are afraid of the 
water conquer their fears and end up being able to 
swim laps on their own,” she said. 
Fighting School Dropout Rate in Spain
In Spain, we have partnered with Save the Children 
and Amazon to fight against school dropout and the 
consequences of leaving school early. Spain has the 
highest rate of Early Education Abandonment (AEP)  
in the EU, which impacts the development and options 
of children, as well as the county as a whole. The third 
campaign of “Change Your Future With One Click”  
was active on Amazon.es and was able to raise a 
donation equivalent to 432,000 minutes of school 
support for Save the Children. Among the three 
editions of this project, we have donated nearly 
two million minutes to children in the educational 
reinforcement program of Save the Children, which 
seeks to reduce school absenteeism, avoid early 
dropout, and improve their performance. 
“It is the most remarkable 
experience watching children 
who are afraid of the water 
conquer their fears and end 
up being able to swim laps 
on their own.”
JANE SPOONER  
Rhinos Swim Coach
Education
55Learning Changes Lives
Volunteers from our Takasaki Japan plant created the 
Super Science High School program with the intent to 
advance communication skills for students in science, 
show how science and technology can change lives, 
and promote careers in the science and technology 
fields. Throughout the 90-minute class “Life Change 
Innovation,” students learn from, and interact with, 
volunteers speaking in English — providing a rare and 
challenging opportunity. Volunteers teach about global 
issues and how science, chemistry and biology can 
help, using the Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program 
and our Purifier of Water packets as examples. To close 
the class, students give presentations in English to 
share ideas about how science and technology can 
solve several global issues relevant to water.
Super Science High School is the system MEXT 
(Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and 
Technology Japan) specifies for high schools that focus 
their education on science and mathematics with the support from the Japan Science and Technology 
Agency. As of this fiscal year, 212 schools have been 
identified since the program started in 2012. Helping to Stay He althy
Our Philippines health and hygiene education 
program, called “Linis Lusog,” teaches proper hand 
washing and oral care to public school children 
in their habit-forming years to lower absenteeism 
among students and prevent communicable diseases. 
Flagship brands Safeguard, Head & Shoulders, and 
Oral-B provide sinks, products and take-home hygiene 
kits. To date, this program has supported many public 
schools in the Philippines. 
Helping in V ietnam
We have continue to provide financial assistance to 
help students in need continue their education. 2019 
marked another year of our Vietnam-sponsored 
scholarship programs aimed at opening the door to a 
brighter future for young people. Thousands of 
scholarships have been granted to disadvantaged 
students. As part of our women empowerment efforts, 
P&G Vietnam has partnered with Vietnam Women’s 
Union and women’s newspaper to grant scholarships 
to female students with disadvantaged backgrounds. Our Philippines health and  
hygiene education program, 
called “Linis Lusog,” teaches  
proper hand washing.Education
56Sharing Expertise to Make 
Communities Stronger
Since 2013, our Beyond Borders Skills-Based 
Volunteering Program in the Asia-Pacific region 
has helped non-profit organizations overcome their 
biggest challenges by having our employees share their 
expertise at no charge. This Skills-Based Volunteering 
Program redefines how corporations like ours can 
go beyond donating money to make communities 
stronger. We are a pioneer in the industry, offering skills-based volunteering opportunities including 
P&G Pro-Bono School (a half-day boot camp for non-
profits), Consultation Project (small group sessions 
between P&G volunteers and one non-profit over 
four months), Sabbatical with UNICEF (full-time work 
project with UNICEF for three months), and Board 
Matching Program (the appointments of P&G senior 
leaders to the Advisory Board of influential non-profit organizations). The program’s breadth and flexibility 
make it not only easy to get involved, but also more meaningful to employees. This program has become 
a beacon for employees, inspiring them to make a 
difference in society by leveraging what they are best 
at. This year, many employees participated in several 
Pro-Bono Schools and short-term consultation projects, 
volunteering their time and expertise to provide free 
consultation to more than 30 non-profit organizations. 
Working to Promote the Benefit 
of Others in France
Working with the French Ministry of Territorial 
Cohesion through the PAQTE initiative (mobilization 
of companies for the 1514 priority areas of the Urban’s 
Policy in France), all three sites in France worked to 
build the economic ability of those around them. 
P&G’s efforts to help young people from deprived 
areas include professional coaching to young adults 
through connections, plant visits, and job and career 
presentations at P&G and in high schools. A report published by the Ministry shows that these efforts 
have benefitted our communities. 
This year, our Amiens plant developed a partnership 
with the association “Crée Ton Avenir!!!” (“Create your 
Future.”) Twenty-eight young students from four 
schools, including three schools from underprivileged 
areas, were welcomed at P&G. The objective was to 
show young girls that they can excel in the business 
world. We also participated with “Nos Quartiers ont des 
Talents” (“Our Neighborhoods have Talents”) on several 
activities including a workshop for youth employability, 
individual coaching, and an on-site event with visits, 
talks, and exchanges between employees and young graduates. Céline Fricourt, Recruiting Manager at the 
Amiens Plant commented, “Above all, we want our 
interns to remember that the world of industry has 
changed, has modernized, and represents a wonderful opportunity for professional development in all sectors. 
We have built a specific schedule for them to discover 
the wealth of existing positions in our Company.  
Young people are often shy but happy to discover  
an environment different from theirs.”
Using our Skills as a Force for Good 
In Canada, we started a new program called P&G 
Gives Back Consulting where we had 30 employees 
volunteer as consultants to solve business challenges 
across six partner charities. These projects have 
significantly benefitted our partner charities by 
offering them new approaches to simplify work, save 
money and grow donations. As part of this program, 
we donated $100,000 toward these charities to help 
implement the consulting teams’ recommendations, 
further demonstrating our commitment to give back to our community. Skills Training
We donated 
$100,000
toward charities in  
Canada to give back.  
57Product Donation
In K ind D irect
We continue our support wit h In Kind Direct to bring 
the comforts of  home to millions of people around the 
UK. To date, we  have donated more than $56.8 mil lion 
worth of product. These thousands of product s have 
been donated t o many organiza tions across the country 
since the prog ram began. This year, we were  
highlighted in In Kind Direct’s  Donor Impact R eport as 
one of their In Kind Direct Do nor Pioneers.
“Sometimes people join our 
community with just the clothes 
they are wearing and a small bag 
of belongings. We receive toiletries, 
such as shower gel and razors from 
In Kind Direct which we put in the 
room for when the person arrives. 
Often when someone comes off the 
street, the first thing they want to 
do is take a shower, so to be able to 
give them the things that we take for 
granted is really special and makes 
them feel welcome.”
EMMAUS GREENWICH  HOMELESS 
CHARITY IN LONDONHelping Down Under
We support Mission Australia, a leading non-profit  
organization with an emphasis on reducing 
homelessness in Australia. Along with corporate 
funding, our product care kits are donated quarterly 
along with team volunteering days where P&G 
employees lend a hand at Mission Australia’s facilities. 
We also support the Foodbank, Australia’s leading 
service to redistribute food and household items to 
Australian charities. In 2018, P&G Australia donated 
11,084 kilograms of products, equating to $254,900  
in social return on investment. Employees also 
complete bi-annual team volunteer days at the 
foodbank warehouse and distribution centers. 
A Treasure Chest
This project began in Singapore in November  
2018 to find new uses for “unsellable” product.  
A team worked across multiple business units and 
functions to establish a process to intercept products 
that still have value, including discontinued, short 
dated, and slightly damaged products. The team established a local charitable partnership and was  
able to reduce our environmental impact, while 
providing local community donations and building  
a positive reputation. Since December 2018, we have donated more than 
70,000 kilograms of products across Singapore and 
Malaysia through our partners Willing Hearts, In-Kind 
and The Lost Food Project. 
We also donated 100 pallets of diapers in collaboration 
with Global Medic from Singapore to Turkey to be 
distributed to Syrian refugees. The Treasure Chest team 
is working to expand this program to other countries.
58Employee Contributions/
Volunteering
Breaking the Cycle of Poverty 
in our Headquarter City
United Way of Greater Cincinnati is on a mission  
to break the cycle of poverty in P&G’s backyard once 
and for all. With P&G’s strong financial and volunteer 
support, United Way is the place where Greater 
Cincinnati can come together to tackle a problem 
as complex as poverty. It is also driving tangible 
results. Last year alone, United Way put 2,500 people 
into jobs, 1,200 families into affordable housing, 
helped nearly 200 families move out of poverty, 
and helped thousands of kids succeed in school. 
Through a workplace giving campaign and corporate 
contributions, we are the United Way’s single largest 
contributor with nearly $10 million donated this year. 
Just as important, our employees also volunteer with 
United Way, serve on its various boards and provide 
critical advice and counsel. P&G and United Way are 
truly better together. Working with Global Medic
P&G Canada continued our strong partnership with 
GlobalMedic to pack and donate hygiene kits to Canadians in need. More than a hundred employees 
helped pack 12,000 hygiene kits across four events 
throughout the year. The kits consisted of Crest toothpaste, Oral B toothbrushes, Ivory soap, Pantene 
shampoo/conditioner, Old Spice deodorant, and 
Always feminine care products. One of the events 
happened during International Women’s Day where a 
team packed 3,000 women’s hygiene kits which were 
donated to local women’s shelters. 
Through just two events, employees in Toronto joined 
GlobalMedic in packing 16,626 meals for Syrians in 
Toronto who are displaced by the ongoing war. The 
meals are nutritious and familiar to Syrian refugees,  
as well as quick and easy to prepare in a displacement 
camp. The meal, called Mujaddara, contains bulgur, 
lentils, fried onions and salt. Each family receives meals 
for two weeks. Families who receive Emergency Food 
Kits also receive a Family Emergency Kit, so they will 
have clean water to prepare their meals safely.
We are United Way’s single  
largest contributor with nearly 
$10 million 
donated this year.
59Caring For People in Iowa
At the heart of our Iowa City Beauty Care Plants is our 
strategy — “Caring for People.” It’s the enabler for caring 
for our business. This acute focus on Caring for People 
has extended to our broader community over the 
last fiscal year through several impactful community 
outreach and service efforts benefitting the youth  
and children in this area: 
1. O ur support of the local University of Iowa (UI) Stead
Family Children’s Hospital includes contributions of
time, resources, supplies, and financial aid. A $10,000
donation was given to the NICU for ongoing
program support.
2. T hrough our partnership with the United Way,
more than 300 employees volunteered to assemble
and deliver:
• 400 healthy snack kits benefitting the
southeastern Iowa area free lunch program
for undernourished children and their families.
• More than 300 teacher school supply kits
benefitting local educators who in turn serve
the needs of the young students in our area.
• Many hygiene kits  to supply tenants of the
UI Stead Family Children’s Hospital with
needed hygiene products so they can get
back to focusing on what is most important:
helping their young ones get well.3. E mployees regularly donate their time, talents, and
resources to support other programs such as Junior
Achievement, outreach to high school students to
promote STEM, and HAVlife, an organization that
helps prevent lost potential in youth ages 10–15
in the area.
Leading the Way in the Community
Our Tabler Station plant in West Virginia has positively 
impacted the community in just a few years. We 
have been recognized as a company of choice by the 
United Way Campaign and Blue Ridge College. The 
Burke Street School Holiday Basket, Stuff the Bus, 
The American Cancer Society Walk, and Blue Ridge 
Partnership are just a few example of programs  
we conduct.
Not only do we deliver significant monetary or in-
kind donations via our United Way campaign, grant 
funds, and product donations, but we also invest time on seven boards of directors to drive change and 
improvement in many areas. Employees embrace this involvement, as evident in the high community impact 
scores on the annual survey. 
At the heart of our Iowa 
City Beauty Care Plant  
is our strategy —   
“Caring for People.”Employee Contributions/
Volunteering
60#WeAct in Poland
At the Łódź plant in Poland, employees adopted a 
five-pillar strategy to build pride in the Company and 
strengthen employee engagement in our Citizenship 
efforts. We focused on areas which will help us 
build further pride in the Company and employee’s 
stronger engagement. The result was the creation 
of the #WeAct program with two driving strategies: 
#We Act for sustainability! and #We Act for others! 
Employees collected hundreds of kilograms of plastic 
bottles, cups, and aluminum cans, allowing them to 
co-fund multimedia equipment for children through 
the local charity Słonie na Balkonie (Elephants on the 
balcony). This equipment supports therapy for children 
who have been victims of violence or sexual abuse. 
Members of our Łódź Emergency Response Team 
came up with a great initiative called “ERT for Kids.” 
In a Łódź kindergarten, they shared their knowledge 
and experience about first aid with the children. Two 
employees prepared specially-developed training 
for kids where they present rescue skills, while the 
children practice on rescue-breathing dummies. The 
kids learn how a defibrillator works and when to use it. 
They also become familiar with the recovery position 
and how to call others for emergency help. Ten Years of Providing the Comforts 
of Home
In Spain, we have been working with Aldeas Infantiles 
SOS (SOS Villages) for more than 10 years to provide 
the comforts of a home to children who don’t have 
access to one. This year, in addition to the ongoing 
Company and employee donations to improve their 
homes, volunteers organized a breakfast in our office 
to increase support. Activities focused on helping 
increase awareness of the importance of proper oral 
hygiene and training. 
A Decade of Solidarity Days
July 4 marked the 10th anniversary of P&G France 
Solidarity Day. Nearly 100 employees engaged in 
activities offering a mix of social and environment 
engagement in the community for more than 570 
hours of volunteering. 
The team of volunteers supported five different 
organizations and delivered:
•Layout and improvement of the LGBT Paris Center
• 2 9 hygiene and food kits made and distributed
to families in need
•10 storage furniture units made
•30 recycled pallet boards
• c leaning of 2,500 meters of a wharf in Paris (7730
cigarette butts collected ~100kg of waste collected
and sorted)• a m ap of one SOS village designed to make
the orientation easier for 70 children
•14 young adults coached by employees
COMMENTS FROM THE COMMUNITY 
AND EMPLOYEES REITERATE HOW  
THIS BENEFITTED THE COMMUNITY: 
 “Given our limited resources, it is 
a blessing that P&G comes to help us.” 
 “It was so good to feel valued.” 
 “It was good to see that there was no 
difference when P&Gers talked to us.”
 “I am proud to have helped and was so 
touched by the welcome we have had.” 
 “A lot of positive energy, wonderful.”
Employees in France 
give back to the 
community during  
the 10th anniversary  
of Solidarity Day.Employee Contributions/
Volunteering
61#FamilyCare — Improving Hospital Visits
In general, young patients and their families don’t 
associate hospitals with joy, especially the wait times 
and having to be treated for rare diseases. P&G  
Korea felt the responsibility to help make hospital  
visits a little more joyful for these patients and their 
families, so we started our #FamilyCare program.  
To help make the visits more bearable, we built a library 
and renovated two nursing rooms and waiting areas 
inside Seoul Children’s Hospital, allowing patients  
and families to have a more relaxing time while waiting 
for treatments. In May, we opened a second P&G FamilyCare space 
in the Seoul Boramae Hospital, providing a shelter 
for families waiting a long time in the hospital. Seoul 
City recognized our effort by awarding us the 2018 
Seoul Foreign Business Award in CSR sector for our 
#FamilyCare Community Impact activities. Beyond the 
facility renovation, employees participated in various 
volunteer activities, including eco-bag painting classes 
for sick children and their families. 
We also made Whisper sanitary pad donations to  
help women in need, such as single moms and those 
in youth centers. This effort supported more than  
300 facilities across the nation, and almost 8,000 
women can now live without having to worry about 
pads for a year.Leaving a Legacy
As part of the planned closure at our Brockville,  
Ontario site, we announced a legacy gift to the city  
to recognize our Company and employees’ 
contributions over the years to help the community 
continue to thrive. Our legacy gift will help build a new 
recreation facility project currently being planned  
at a local city park. 
The project will include an outdoor ice rink, splash 
pad and roller-skating park. The change rooms and 
washroom facility that serve this park will be named 
the “P&G Pavilion.” We are thrilled to be able to partner 
with the city to make this project a reality. This is in 
addition to the 2018 donation of $175,000 to the United 
Way which we will continue to support through the 
end of our transition period.
We strive to make  
hospital visits a little 
more joyful through our 
#FamilyCare program.Employee Contributions/
Volunteering
62A Special Mother’s Day In Singapore
To pay tribute to Special Olympic Athletes and their 
mums, we partnered with NTUC FairPrice Singapore 
for our sixth consecutive Thank You Mum campaign. 
This year’s theme, “Because of You, I Can,” celebrated 
a mother’s role as her child’s first and greatest 
enabler — the one who sees her child’s true potential 
and helps them become who they can be. The 
campaign puts the spotlight on mothers of Special 
Olympics athletes, who face challenges and struggle  
to enable their children to excel in their chosen sport 
and, in the process, become a true inspiration for 
others. To demonstrate our long-term commitment  
to Special Olympics and the commitment to be a force 
for good, along with NTUC FairPrice, we organized 
a carnival for Special Olympics athletes and their 
mums, representatives from P&G and NTUC Fair Price 
Management, employee volunteers and member of 
the Singapore Government. During the carnival, we 
also showed a new film highlighting the unconditional 
love of three of these athletes’ mums. This came with  
a $20,000 donation to Special Olympics Singapore.Supporting the Family in Munich
Teamwork is everything: This is apparent for the sports 
team in Germany — FC Bayern Munich. This is also the 
case with our families. Families have their personal 
matchday every day and without any halftime break. 
Parents sometimes have to be striker, defender, 
goalkeeper, and trainer at the same time. We teamed 
up with FC Bayern Munich to support the most 
important team in the word — families. For each P&G 
product purchased at a participating retailer during 
the campaign period, a donation is made. 500€ are 
added for each goal the FC Bayern Munich scores in a league game. A check for more than 75.000€ has 
been given to the charity foundation RTL Wir helfen 
Kindern to support sport projects in RTL children’s 
homes. Further, many local social projects have been 
supported, such as the Hamburger Förderverein 
KinderLeben e.V. The association helps seriously ill 
children and their parents. Thanks to the donations,  
it can develop its parents’ café into a meeting place 
for families. Another highlight were the football camps 
organized by the FC Bayern Kids Club in Austria for 
socially disadvantaged children giving more than  
200 children an unforgettable experience. Proud Blue Wave Running For Good 
For the past 15 years, the Geneva Marathon for 
UNICEF has been an extraordinary event allowing our 
Company, our brands and friends to give back to our 
community. This year saw a new record participation 
level, with P&G #1 on the podium of corporations 
represented. Five hundred colleagues and family came 
together for a positive impact in Geneva and healthier 
living. Every runner took the challenge, individually or 
in a team, or even running 1K with their 2-year-old child. 
Always was a proud sponsor of the special race La 
Genevoise where women and girls proved that running 
#LikeAGirl is amazing and can mean winning the 
race. Probably the most demanding, yet rewarding, 
experience was for the 50 P&Gers running alongside children with disabilities in a joëllette (an adapted 
wheelchair) from the Clair Bois Foundation. 
 “This would not be possible 
without the contagious passion  
and commitment of the marathon 
core team and volunteers.  
Together, we make a difference!” 
FRANCOIS CORMORECHE,  
P&G Director and Marathon team leaderEmployee Contributions/
Volunteering
63Employee Volunteering — 
Clean Ups
Canada
As part of our P&G Gives Back efforts, P&G Toronto 
general office employees participated in our second 
annual Park & River Clean-up event in September  
2018. Employees collected more than 900 kilograms  
of trash that would otherwise end up in our waterways 
and lakes. This event kicked off our annual P&G Gives 
Back canvassing campaign where employees and 
retirees, along with the Company match, donated 
more than one million Canadian dollars to Canadian 
charitable organizations. 
Spain
To increase awareness around plastic pollution in  
Spain, we joined forces with Carrefour and partnered 
with Paisaje Limpio to clean local beaches and clean waste from the shores. In addition, a roundtable  was organized with the participation of P&G, Carrefour, 
and Influencer Calleja to discuss the journey  
behind this effort and the importance of driving 
responsible consumption. Cincinnati
Employees from Cincinnati devoted an afternoon to 
help clean up the Ohio River. This third annual river 
cleanup was done in partnership with Living Lands 
& Waters led by Chad Pregracke, a 2013 CNN Hero of 
the Year, and his wife Tammy, who call the river barge 
their home. Volunteers navigated the muddy river 
bed to ascend about 20-30 yards from the river line to 
find massive amounts of garage. Employees removed 
thousands of pounds of trash from the shores, 
includ ing car tires, scrap metal, barrels, Styrofoam, 
propane tanks, and much more. 
Greek Coasts 
Through our brands and with the support of retailer AB 
Vasilopoulos (Delhaize), we supported the organization 
iSea to clean the waste from the Greek Coasts. This 
campaign has been the first sustainability campaign 
in partnership with a customer in Greece and has run 
for two years. During this period, we have managed to 
clean many beaches around Greece with the help of 
volunteers and have collected more than six tons of 
waste. Employees are engaged in the cleanup, but 
they also get to enjoy the cleaner coasts during  the 
summer.
64Awards
Our Newcastle Innovation Center received the United 
Kingdom, North East Region Better Health at Work 
Award, Ambassador Status.  
We received the Gold Award from AMCHAM 
Thailand’s ACE Recognition Awards for Excellence 
in Corporate Social Responsibility.  This award 
recognizes P&G’s commitment to community impact 
and our long-term sustainability efforts. This is also in 
recognition for P&G Thailand’s ongoing partnership 
with the Thailand Ministry of Commerce, the 
Department of Business Development, and the Thai 
Wholesale & Retail Trade Association in hosting the 
annual Thailand Wholesale and Retail 4.0 Business 
Conference to support Small & Medium Enterprise 
(SME) wholesalers and retailers. 
Our Manufacturing plant in Thailand received 
the “Responsible Care” award  presented by the 
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Industrial Thailand. 
P&G Manufacturing Thailand is compliant to the 
Code of Management Practices for Responsible Care 
and performance of health, safety and in protecting 
the Environment. P&G Manufacturing Thailand also 
demonstrates the “Responsible Care” for environment 
through the assessment submitted to the Responsible 
Care Management Team on six codes of management 
practices for conducting the business with 
responsibility. The American Chamber of Commerce gave P&G Costa 
Rica the award for Social Responsibility in Action 
in the Community Impact category for the Born 
Learning program . In Costa Rica, the program has 
been added to the curriculum of Ministry of Education 
and will be taught in elementary schools across the 
country starting in 2020. 
P&G Canada was honored to be selected as one 
of Canada’s Top 100 Employers . This is a national 
competition to determine which employers lead 
their industries in offering exceptional workplaces for 
their employees. Employers are compared to other 
organizations in their field to determine which offers 
the most progressive and forward-thinking programs. 
Companies are judged across eight broad criteria  
that include areas such as community involvement, 
work atmosphere and social, and training and  
skills development.
P&G Vietnam was presented with a  Certificate of 
Merit by the Red Cross  for the contributions on 
improving the livelihood of Vietnamese nationwide 
through significant campaigns in the past few years, 
including our Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program, 
Tet for the Poor and Disaster Relief efforts. This is the 
highest award offered by the Red Cross for companies 
that exemplify the mission of the Vietnam Red Cross. 
65We were also recognized in Vietnam for  best practices 
on community impact programs  that facilitate 
long-term social value for the country. To qualify for 
the award, our program received high marks in four 
separate categories: attention to business objectives 
and societal needs, creation of long-term economic 
and social gains, communication and sharing of best 
practices, and program sustainability.
Our Blois Plant was recognized by the French 
Chemical Industry and government authorities for 
its benchmark citizenship and community impact . 
Within the last 12 months more than 200 young people 
were on site for presentations, classes, short discovery 
internship, and site visits. In total, 160,585 euros were 
raised for charity organizations and thousands of 
hours were dedicated by employees to community 
impact programs. Blois was the first French P&G site 
to sign a formal agreement with the government to 
help deliver results in underprivileged areas of the 
city, including informing about industry opportunities, 
training with internships, hiring and decreasing local 
unemployment, and buying from local companies. 
We were awarded the 2018 Seoul Foreign Business 
Award  in the community impact sector for our 
#FamilyCare activities.
P&G Singapore was recognized by World Vision with 
its prestigious Humanitarian Impact Award . Given 
by former Singapore President Tony Tan, this award 
commemorates our long-standing partnership with 
World Vision to help communities in Asia Pacific. 
Most recently, we helped reduce the risks of typhoon disaster in the Tho Quang and Man Thai wards in Da 
Nang City, Vietnam. With support from us, a two-story 
evacuation center with WASH facilities was completed 
in 2018 benefitting more than 700 people including 
more than 200 children. 
P&G Asia Pacific received the AmCham CARES 
Award (High Distinction)  in recognition of regional 
community impact programs including our Children’s 
Safe Drinking Water Program and Beyond Borders. 
This was awarded by President of Singapore, Ms. 
Halimah Yacob. 
Tabler Station received the  Gold Award for top  
2018–2019 campaign performer in the Eastern 
Panhandle of West Virginia from United Way.Singapore’s National Volunteer and Philanthropy 
Centre (NVPC) recognized us as a Champion of Good . 
This prestigious award celebrates catalysts of change 
in Singapore. Awarded by the Minister of Finance, Mr. 
Heng Swee Keat, this recognizes companies that have 
not only been exemplary in their corporate giving 
efforts but have also been a multiplier in engaging 
partners on a collaborative giving journey. 
Singapore President Halimah Yacob presented us with 
the SkillsFuture Employer award , one of the country’s 
highest awards for employers. Our P&G “Professional 
Conversion Program” created a sustainable pipeline  
of Associate Researchers in the P&G Singapore 
Innovation Center. 
P&G China received  the 2018–2019 Mercer China’s 
Excellence in Health Employers, Special Practice 
Award . The Excellence Special Practice Award is 
designed to recognize health management programs 
that are specific to employee’s specific health issues  
or needs.
P&G Singapore was awarded  the Singapore Health 
Promotion Board Award of Excellence 2019  for our 
effort in promoting workplace health and in enhancing 
the wellbeing of employees. The Singapore Health 
Award distinguished us as a caring employer who 
values employees’ health and wellbeing. 
Awards
66Employee Wellbeing
P&G Vibrant Living
Vibrant Living is P&G’s global health and wellbeing 
program. Our Vibrant Living vision is “Enable peak 
performance by inspiring meaningful, happy, healthy 
lives” and is supported by three pillars:
“Meaningful” Heart  — Feeling proud to be part of P&G 
and connecting with others, at home, at work and 
in the community, who share similar interests and 
passion to bring out our best.
“Happy” Mind  — Enriching our overall wellbeing, 
building resilience and strengthening relationships  
to enjoy the best in life.
“Healthy” Body  — Optimizing our physical strength 
and energy to meet everyday challenges and enjoy  
an active lifestyle. That’s the core of Vibrant Living.
Vibrant Living provides employees offerings in the 
areas of fitness, nutrition, mental and emotional 
resilience, health education and training, and hands 
on activities and events to aid personal fulfillment 
and peak performance. Many of our Vibrant Living 
programs are available to family members and 
through the “Meaningful” Heart pillar Vibrant Living 
extending to the communities where we work and live.
From our annual survey, we know more than 80% 
of employees participate in Vibrant Living offerings. 
Those who do score higher in personal wellbeing  
and report having more energy for the things they 
enjoy and a better work and life balance, in addition  
to feeling supported by their manager.During the first two weeks in April, we celebrate Global 
Vibrant Living Awareness Day in conjunction with 
World Health Day. This is our sixth year celebrating the 
importance of our health and wellbeing with 94% of 
sites around the world participating, our highest rate 
yet. Each year, we have a theme and for 2019 the focus 
of our celebration was around our mental wellbeing. 
Emphasis was placed on reminding employees 
about the Vibrant Living programs available and the 
importance of taking care of ourselves and all aspects 
of life integral to our mental wellbeing. 
•   We have 124 certified Vibrant Living sites that 
support the health and wellbeing of our employees.
•   Our global online wellness assessment is available  
to employees in more than 30 languages.
•   We have a comprehensive WorkLife Solutions 
Program that reaches 90% of employees worldwide.
Vibrant Living Teams leverage the Vibrant Living 
framework to bring the program to life in a meaningful 
way for the employees at their site. The types of 
Vibrant Living activities, programs and events vary by 
location and can include such things as health checks 
in the Vibrant Living Health Center, health fairs, sports 
competitions and tournaments, 5K Walk/Run events, 
stress and resilience promotions, healthy food and 
snack offerings, fitness center promotions, massages, 
Vibrant Living Circles, family day, community outreach 
events and many others. 
67Diversity & Inclusion
68P&G is a Company that believes in diversity and inclusion. With more than 
140 nationalities represented in our workforce, our own diversity helps us 
reflect and win with the consumers we serve around the world. The more  
we understand people, their needs and challenges, the better we can delight 
them with our products and services. And while diversity is essential in all  
we do, we believe inclusion changes the game. Every day we strive to get the 
full value of our diversity through inclusion — fostering an environment where 
P&G people can be their best, full and authentic selves in the workplace. 
But our job doesn’t end there — our belief and commitment extend beyond 
P&G’s walls. We are driving action on the world stage to make a meaningful 
difference, and we care deeply about our impact, always striving to make  
the world a little bit better through our actions.
69HIGHLIGHT
Celebrating 50 Years Since 
Stonewall with World Pride
We were a proud supporter of Pride activities all over 
the world in 2019, using our voice to build a more 
equal world for all individuals. We teamed up with 
the Heritage of Pride to become a Platinum sponsor 
for the 2019 World Pride activities in New York City, 
recognizing 50 years since the Stonewall uprising 
sparked the global movement for LGBT+ equality. From 
Cincinnati to South Africa, Peru to Poland and nearly 50 
other places in between, thousands of our employees 
showed their support for the LGBT+ community 
through their participation in Pride celebrations. We 
also marked a milestone with our 2019 expansion of 
Pride support into Asia with our presence in the Manila 
Philippines Pride March.
Thousands of our employees  
showed their support for  
the LGBT+ community  
during World Pride events.
70HIGHLIGHT
Great Minds Do Not Think Alike
With no two diagnoses the same, Autism Spectrum  
Disorder is a condition that needs careful understanding 
to enable the individual to thrive. Full-time employment 
for adults on the autistic spectrum is disappointingly 
low given the skills that many autistic people can offer 
potential employers. To drive diversity and inclusion and 
create innovative growth, we have stepped into the 
realm of Neurodiversity — an umbrella term for those 
who think differently. Programs have been launched  
in P&G’s UK, Boston, Costa Rica and Cincinnati offices  
to learn as a Company how to hire this dynamic talent 
and to capture candidates’ unique problem-solving 
methods. Employees from this program are currently 
working in the fields of R&D and Smart Robotic 
Automations. We see these programs as an innovation 
strategy to source diverse talents and drive business 
results, and early results show both, leading to plans  
to expand the program in the future. 
Neurodiversity programs  
at P&G are diversifying talent  
and driving business results.
71HIGHLIGHT
 “The Look” Elevates Awareness 
of Racial Bias
In 2017, we tackled racial inequality driven by racial 
bias, creating an Emmy award-winning short film 
focused on “The Talk” that many Black parents  
have with their children to prepare, protect and 
encourage them. 
Continuing the conversation about racial bias, this 
year we followed with another short film called “The 
Look,” which follows a Black man throughout his day 
as he encounters a variety of ‘looks’ that symbolize 
a barrier to acceptance — and differing levels of bias. 
These situations are all based on real-life examples 
that still happen every day. Through these films, 
in conjunction with educational resources and 
perspective at www.talkaboutbias.com, we intend 
to raise awareness, encourage dialogue, and enable 
change in hearts and minds. 
72HIGHLIGHT
Brands Taking a Stand
Pantene and GLAAD 
Redefine What 
‘Beautiful’ Looks  
Like Today 
As a brand once 
known for a particular 
kind of “beautiful 
hair,” Pantene tackled 
conventional stereotypes in honor of Pride 
2019 with the launch of “Don’t Hate Me 
Because I’m BeautifuLGBTQ+.” The campaign, 
made in partnership with GLAAD, took the 
brand’s ubiquitous line from its famous 1986 
advertisement to redefine what ‘beautiful’ 
looks like in today’s world by featuring a 
range of people within the LGBT+ community 
and their unique stories of transformation. 
The launch of “Don’t Hate Me Because 
I’m BeautifuLGBTQ+” also marked the 
announcement of Pantene’s partnership  
with GLAAD which will continue to uplift 
members of the LGBT+ community by 
celebrating inclusion, representation and 
freedom of expression. Fairy Drops Y to Support LGBT+  
Homeless Youth in the UK
Fairy, one of our heritage brands at the heart 
of family life for more than 50 years, was at 
the forefront of our Pride celebrations in 
2019. Through research, we discovered that 
LGBT+ people make up about 7% of the UK 
population. Sadly, they make up almost a 
quarter of homeless young people today, often 
driven from their homes and their families 
through unacceptance — and that’s not FAIR. 
So, for a limited time, Fairy became FAIR, 
dropping the ‘Y’ to support LGBT+ homeless 
youth by donating a portion of every purchase 
to the Albert Kennedy Trust charity.Gillette Believes in the Best in Men
January 2019 marked the 30-year anniversary 
of Gillette’s tagline, “The Best a Man Can Get.” 
Since its debut, it has been an aspirational 
statement, reflecting standards that many 
men strive to achieve. But today many  
men find themselves at a crossroads,  
caught between the past and a new era  
of masculinity. 
Gillette asked the question, “Is this the best 
a man can get?” and in turn, they introduced 
the “The Best Men Can Be” campaign. They 
released “We Believe,” a short film that 
showcases examples of how men can take 
actions, large and small, to create meaningful 
change for themselves, their loved ones, and 
their peers, and set the right example for the 
next generation of men. Along with the film, 
Gillette committed to donate $1 million per 
year for the next three years to non-profit 
organizations executing programs designed 
to inspire, educate and help men of all ages 
achieve their personal “best.”
With “We Believe,” Gillette ignited a world-
wide discussion about masculinity. The film 
has been viewed more than 110 million times 
and shared in school classrooms, universities, 
churches and more, and has inspired 
programs from Gillette in India, Canada,  
Spain and South Africa.
THE BEST MEN CAN BE
73Diversity & Inclusion
Message from Shelly McNamara  
Using Our Voice 
Making an Impact 
Changing the Culture  
Awards and Recognitions  
74“At P&G, we aspire to create a better world for EVERYONE —   
free from bias, with equal opportunities irrespective of race, 
ethnicity, culture, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity,  
(dis)ability, and background.
Operating in nearly 70 countries and reaching consumers 
through our brands in 180+ countries, we strive to represent 
the diversity of the consumers we serve. With more than 140 
nationalities represented in our workforce, our own diversity 
helps us reflect and win with consumers around the world. 
This is not only the right thing to do but it is also a competitive 
advantage for the continued growth of our Company. To 
win with consumers around the world, we must inclusively 
leverage and continually strengthen the diversity of our 
organization. Having an employee base as diverse as the world 
we live in enables us to create superior brands and services 
to better meet a range of consumer needs. While diversity 
is essential in all we do, we believe inclusion changes the 
game. Every day, we strive to get the full value of our diversity 
through inclusion, fostering an environment where P&G 
people can be their best, full selves in the workplace. We’ve 
seen time and again that when P&G employees bring their 
full selves to work it leads to superior innovation and helps us 
better communicate what our brands stand for.
Our work is not limited to our internal efforts. Externally,  
we believe in using our voice in advertising and media to call 
attention to bias and equality, spark dialogue and motivate 
change in the world. We know advertising has the power 
to shape how communities see themselves and each other. 
Many of our brands are advancing diversity and inclusion 
perspectives through accurate and positive portrayals in 
everyday advertising, and by calling attention to issues 
like racial and LGBT+ biases. The campaigns we create and 
the way we tell our stories give us the opportunity to spark 
conversations that motivate change and create a better world.”Message from  
Shelly McNamara
Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officer 
and Senior VP,  
Human Resources
7576
Using Our VoiceINTRODUCTION  ETHICS & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  COMMUNITY IMPACT  DIVERSITY & INCLUSION  GENDER EQUALITY  ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
 “Out Of The Shadows” Film Explores  
Next Chapter of Our Journey for  
LGBT+ Equality 
Our 2018 award-winning film, “The Words Matter,” 
told our story of employees who worked tirelessly to 
secure employee LGBT+ rights. We continued that 
journey of self-reflection with the 2019 sequel, “Out 
of The Shadows.” We partnered with CNN and Great 
Big Story to tell these stories and each film traces 
the history of how gay and lesbian employees at P&G 
banded together to fight for equality in the workplace. 
“The Words Matter” ended when P&G added “sexual 
orientation” to its Equal Employment Opportunity 
(EEO) statement in 1992, but that was only the 
beginning. Culture, attitudes and behaviors toward 
lesbian and gay employees in the Company and in the 
city of Cincinnati had a long way to go. It was a hostile 
environment and a difficult time for employees to 
openly be themselves. “Out of the Shadows” shares the 
stories of a group of P&G employees who rallied against 
intolerance and hate, and turned the tide of prejudice 
to ensure that LGBT+ employees received equal 
benefits within the Company. The lessons learned 
in this film helped inspire courageous leadership 
and develop even more inclusive workplaces and 
communities for everyone. As one employee declares 
in the film, “I am going to make change happen in the 
halls and walls of my employer.” And they did — the 
LGBT+ employees and their advocates inspired the 
Company to do the right thing in the face of opposition. 
“It’s each of those steps that have given us a stronger motivation and a stronger voice to be a positive 
force of change,” shared Brent Miller, leader of LGBT+ 
Communications at P&G and executive producer of 
“Out of the Shadows.”
This film celebrates the contributions those individuals 
made — often unrecognized — in changing the fabric 
of not only our workplace but our culture as a whole. 
Many companies around the world have gone through 
similar journeys and by telling our story, we hope to 
inspire others to stand up for what they believe in and 
create meaningful change. 
Throughout our journey, we have not gotten 
everything right. We continue to learn, explore and 
understand the uniqueness of all of our employees 
and consumers. The lessons we learned have helped 
us on our journey to make things better. It is more 
important than ever for companies to create a culture 
where all people are welcome. We hope that by 
sharing our journey, we can inspire others to engage in 
conversation and help create a world free from bias.
Today, our LGBT+ network, GABLE, now has 5,000 
members in 40 countries. We encourage you to check 
out this film and learn more about these courageous 
individuals who stood up to bias and helped us be a 
more inclusive company. 
“I am going to  
make change happen  
in the halls and walls  
of my employer.” 
76“The Look” Elevates Awareness  
of Racial Bias 
In 2017, we tackled racial inequality driven by racial bias, 
creating an Emmy award-winning short film focused 
on “The Talk” that many Black parents have with their 
children to prepare, protect and encourage them. 
We know images in TV, film and advertising shape 
how communities see each other — and can create 
bias leading to life-changing personal and societal 
consequences, especially for people of color. One 
group that has long been underserved and often 
misrepresented is Black men. We want to help re-
shape and change that narrative. As the world’s largest 
advertiser, P&G and our brands have a responsibility to 
make a difference. The images we put out there help 
shape how society sees Black men and have a role to 
play in whether those perceptions are good or bad.
So we followed up the “The Talk” with another short 
film this year called “The Look.” The new film follows 
a Black man throughout his day as he encounters 
a variety of ‘looks’ that symbolize a barrier to 
acceptance — and differing levels of bias. This two-
sided story was inspired by reality, with each scene 
recounting the experiences of many men of color. 
The director and cinematographer duo we brought 
on board for “The Look,” Anthony Mandler and Malik 
Hassan Sayeed, bring their unique experiences to the 
project. We made the deliberate decision to represent 
diversity of thought and opinions with this project.To gain a better understanding of the Black-male 
experience in America, we partnered with BET and 
Seek, to understand how he exists in the world, how 
the world sees him, and how he sees himself. Over five 
months, we leveraged nontraditional but immersive 
research techniques to enable men to openly and 
comfortably discuss their experiences. What we 
learned is that there isn’t a one-size-fits-all universal 
Black-male experience, but there are a few universal 
truths that affect the vast majority of Black men. 
We found that to connect with him, you must first 
understand the effects of bias and racism and how 
that impacts the way he sees the world and how the 
world sees him. In the U.S.’s history, only the last 54 
years have been spent in legal “freedom” and that 
plays itself out in a variety of ways. It shows up in 
major challenges and restrictions for Black men when 
trying to own property, get a quality education and 
pass down wealth to their families. The impact of bias 
and racism is a theme that ran through all phases of 
our research for “The Look.” There is no way that we 
could accurately reflect on the Black-male experience 
without addressing this topic and understanding how 
it affects his lens and the lens people see him through.
Our hope is that “The Look” will cause everyone to 
pause and reflect, to look beyond what we think 
we see to overcome unconscious biases, recognize 
microaggressions, and stop overt acts of racism. We 
believe when we look beyond what we think we see, we recognizing each other as human beings. This  
will lead to dialogue, dialogue will lead to empathy,  
and empathy leads to change in behavior and action. 
We encourage you to join the conversation  
at #TalkAboutBias. Using Our Voice
77Fairy Drops Y to Support  
LGBTQ+ Homeless Youth in UK 
When Fairy dishwashing liquid was first introduced in 
the UK in 1960, traditional heterosexual couples were 
the mainstay. Same sex couples couldn’t be openly 
together — let alone married. Now 60 years later, Fairy’s 
mission remains the same: to feed family life, whatever 
that looks like today. 
On July 3, 2019, we dropped the “Y” and launched a  
limited-edition FAIR bottle, donating a portion of  
every purchase to the Albert Kennedy Trust (AKT) 
which works to find homes for LGBTQ+ youth 
who have been driven from their homes due to 
nonacceptance of who they are. 
Currently in the UK, LGBTQ+ people make up 7% of the 
population, and sadly almost a quarter of the homeless 
young people living on the streets. While it may seem 
that our society is more supportive of the LGBTQ+ 
community, charities like AKT exist because there are 
still those who feel alone and unsupported. 
As a household icon, we believe we can help play a role 
in progressing equality for all family members.By working together, we can help encourage equality 
for families and ensure a FAIR future for all. When 
consumers picked up a limited-edition FAIR bottle  
and placed it by their sink at home, we wanted them 
to think about the small impact that gesture has made, 
not only in family life in Britain, but also by supporting 
equality for everyone. Our hope was that this bottle 
might make it easier for parents or their children  
to bring up conversations that were uncomfortable  
in the past.
The money from this campaign is funding an online 
resource to help families talk more openly about 
LGBTQ+ issues. The more conversations are normalized, 
the easier it will be for young people to open up.
A donation from each  
pack sold went to our  
charity partner, AKT.Using Our Voice
78Redefining What ‘Beautiful’  
Looks Like Today 
As a brand once known for a particular kind of “beautiful 
hair,” Pantene is tackling conventional stereotypes with 
“Don’t Hate Me Because I’m BeautifuLGBTQ+,” a new 
message that’s part of its recently launched “Power To 
Transform” campaign. Created in partnership with the 
Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD), 
the campaign takes the brand’s ubiquitous line from our 
famous 1986 advertisement to redefine what ‘beautiful’ 
looks like in today’s world by featuring a range of people 
within the LGBTQ+ community as they share their own 
unique stories of transformation.
“For many in the community, hair plays a pivotal role in 
their ’transformation moment,’” said Ilaira Resta, Vice 
President, North America Hair Care. “In fact, from our 
research we found that 60% of LGBTQ+ persons change 
their hair when they have a life or identity change. So, 
whether that means getting a major chop or growing 
out your locks to defy societal norms or embracing 
hair that bends the gender binary entirely, hair is an 
impactful visual cue of transformation, and this new 
campaign from Pantene aims to show the beauty of  
all transformations and of all people.”
The campaign features three videos in which individuals 
tell their own stories of transformation and their unique 
sense of self expression. One video shares the story 
of Pooya, a transgender woman from Iran who was 
once jailed for having hair that was considered too long. “I want to be there for people in a way that I didn’t 
experience when I was younger, and let them know that 
there is nothing wrong with them,” Pooya states in the 
video after joining the initiative in hopes that her story 
would empower others to see their place in the world 
and envision the transformations they are capable of.
In addition to being World Pride sponsors, the launch of 
“Don’t Hate Me Because I’m BeautifuLGBTQ+” also came 
with the announcement of our partnership with GLAAD, 
which will continue to uplift members of the LGBTQ+ 
community by celebrating inclusion, representation and 
freedom of expression. This commitment follows recent 
global Pantene campaigns in the Philippines and the UK 
which celebrate and showcase transgender beauty and 
the stories of that community.
“Pantene has raised the bar for authentic inclusion by 
shining the spotlight on a diverse group of LGBTQ+ 
people in this powerful new campaign,” said GLAAD 
president and CEO Sarah Kate Ellis. “Hearing these 
LGBTQ+ individuals speak about their identities as well 
as their drive to be their true selves will empower other 
LGBTQ+ people and remind us all what true beauty  
is all about.”
Pantene’s “Power to Transform” campaign launched 
in April recognizes, celebrates and gives visibility to 
those who transform their lives and the world around 
them every single day. The brand has committed to 
telling stories of transformation that defy bias, celebrate 
personal expression and show a more inclusive world.
Using Our Voice
79Gillette Believes in the Best in Men
January 2019 marked the thirty-year anniversary of 
Gillette’s tagline, “The Best a Man Can Get.” Since its 
debut, it has been an aspirational statement, reflecting 
standards that many men strive to achieve. But turn 
on the news today, and it’s easy to believe that some 
men are not at their best. Many find themselves at a 
crossroads, caught between the past and a new era  
of masculinity. 
Gillette asked the question “Is this the best a man  
can get?” and in turn introduced their “The Best Men 
Can Be” campaign by releasing “We Believe,” a short 
film that showcases examples of how men can take 
actions — large and small — to create meaningful 
change for themselves, their loved ones and their 
peers, and set the right example for the next 
generation of men. Along with the film, Gillette 
committed to donate $1 million per year for the next 
three years to non-profit organizations executing 
programs designed to inspire, educate and help  
men of all ages achieve their personal “best.”  
With “We Believe,” Gillette ignited a worldwide 
discussion about masculinity. The film has been 
viewed more than 110 million times and shared  
in school classrooms, universities, churches and  
more. It has also inspired programs from  
other regions: 
In India,  we launched #ShavingStereotypes, a film that 
tells the story of two girls, known as the “Barbershop 
Girls of India,” who are inspiring the next generation of men by redefining gender stereotypes, one shave 
at a time. We are also expanding Safalta Apni Mutthi 
MeinGuard, a program that we launched more than 
three years ago that has reached 8,000+ colleges and 
universities. This practical training program includes 
seminars and workshops on resume writing, interview 
skills and how to succeed in the professional world. 
In Canada,  we released “First Shave,” a short film 
featuring the first shaving experience of a transgender 
man supported by his father. The ad’s release was 
timed to coincide with Toronto’s Inside Out Film 
Festival, where Gillette was a sponsor and featured the 
video prior to a film screening.  
In Spain,  we launched “Hay Que Ser Muy Hombre” 
(“It Takes a Real Man”), a campaign that refreshed a 
famous Spanish saying that means it takes courage 
to be a “true” man and to be yourself. The campaign 
portrays prominent Spanish men for whom courage 
had a very special meaning, far from the traditional 
stereotypes. The initiative also includes educational 
materials to enable instructors in high schools and 
universities to initiate conversations with teenagers 
about masculinity. We expect to reach more than  
300 schools and 20,000 teenagers.In South Africa,  two out of three children are raised 
without their father, so many boys can’t turn to dad for 
advice. It’s often the women — mothers, grandmothers, 
aunts and sisters — who step up and play several roles. 
Gillette used the occasion of Women’s Day in South 
Africa to pay tribute to the women raising the next 
generation of South African men through a film that 
tells the story of Gogo (grandmother) Nozizwe and her 
grandson Akhona. Because we all have a role to play 
in shaping the next generation, Gillette South Africa is 
partnering with The Character Company, a non- profit 
organization whose mentorship programs guide 
young boys into becoming the best men they can be. 
Using Our Voice
80MBIB Calls for Change: Redefine Black 
Words matter. They are foundational to how individuals 
think about themselves, and they can influence the 
perceptions of others. Negative associations tied to the 
word black are pervasive and continue to live through 
language, as evident in many dictionaries that link 
it to words like dirty, hostile and evil. That’s why My 
Black Is Beautiful (MBIB), a cultural platform started 
by P&G, advocated to successfully change the entry 
for black in American dictionaries, prioritizing identity 
in the entry and removing outdated uses that can 
lead to unconscious associations with Black identity. 
Rather than prescribing a new definition, My Black is 
Beautiful partnered with social change organization 
dosomething.org to rally community dialogue and 
engage the varied and diverse perspectives of people 
who identify as Black. Because of #RedefineBlack and 
collaboration with language and cultural experts on 
the tactical changes that could and should be made, 
merriam-webster.com and dictionary.com completed 
updates to the entry for black, driving visual and 
semantic distance between Black identity and the 
association with something that is evil, soiled or stained. 
My Black Is Beautiful is committed to acknowledging 
and celebrating a robust, flexible and affirming picture 
of Blackness and continuing to spotlight all that is 
beautiful about Black culture (shapes, shades, textures, 
identities, ages and self-expression).P&G’s Carrefour Shoppers Show Their 
Support for Diversity & Inclusion 
Throughout the United Arab Emirates 
We partnered with Carrefour, operated by Majid Al 
Futtaim in UAE, to encourage people of the UAE 
to share their respect of and acceptance for the 
country’s diversity and inclusion through a national 
initiative. More than 10,000 people took the Tolerance 
Pledge, both in-store and online via their social media 
accounts, using the hashtag #TolerancePledge as 
part of the UAE’s Year of Tolerance. The number of 
videos submitted set a new Guinness World Record that underlined how important diversity and inclusion 
is to everyone who lives in the country. The Tolerance 
Pledge reflects the openness and acceptance found 
in UAE society, which is made up of more than 200 
nationalities, and dozens of religions and diverse 
beliefs. Those taking part in the campaign recorded 
themselves saying the following, “I pledge to respect 
and accept people whose abilities, beliefs and culture 
are different from my own.” 
More than 10,000 people 
in UAE took the Tolerance 
Pledge, showing their respect 
for the country’s diversity.Using Our Voice
81P&G Philippines Uses its Voice to 
Celebrate Diversity in Many Ways 
P&G Philippines is using its market-leading brand 
voice to spark conversations on diversity & inclusion 
and gender equality. Some examples include 
Safeguard’s “Pabaon sa Buhay” film featuring the 
first-ever indigenous Filipino who graduated from the 
Philippines’ premier state university; Vicks’ challenge 
to the stigma associated with children born with HIV; 
and Pantene’s “Stronger Now” campaign featuring  
a transgender ambassador. Pantene’s “Power of Grey Hair” 
Campaign Shapes Culture in Europe
At Pantene, we understand the power of hair. It is 
identity; it is self-esteem; it is confidence. That’s why 
we are on a mission to give women more great hair 
days, creating products and campaigns that transform 
both her hair and her world for the better. This year 
across Europe, Pantene launched a new campaign, 
“The Power of Grey,” that proudly celebrates women 
embracing their grey hair, aiming to transform 
the cultural narrative around it. While greying is 
biological and gender agnostic, men with grey hair are 
considered silver foxes while women are considered 
to be letting themselves go. By challenging society’s 
views on the appropriateness of grey hair, we intend  
to remove the cultural shame. Women can now 
embrace their grey hair with “Pantene Hair Biology 
Grey & Glowing” collection just for them.  
#PowerofHair, #PowerofGrey 
Using Our Voice
82P&G Turkey Celebrates 15 Years  
of Partnership with Special  
Olympics Athletes
In 2019, P&G Turkey celebrated its 15th year of 
partnership with Special Olympics whose mission is 
to give children and adults with intellectual disabilities 
continuing opportunities to develop physically and 
mental to inspire others to open their hearts to a wider 
world of human talents and potential. Our Special 
Olympics Project partnership with supermarket retailer 
Migros has enabled us to make a difference in the lives 
of 10,000 children and young people since 2004. And 
in the last three years, we also supported 700 young 
athletes between the ages of 2–4 with intellectual 
disabilities. This project has been one of the biggest 
retailer and brand collaborations, and one of the long-
lasting Diversity & Inclusion projects in Turkey. Great Minds Do Not Think Alike
With no two diagnoses the same, Autism Spectrum 
Disorder (ASD) is a condition that needs careful 
understanding to enable individuals on the spectrum 
to thrive. Full-time employment for adults on the 
autistic spectrum is disappointingly low given the 
skills that many autistic people can offer potential 
employers. To drive diversity and inclusion and create 
innovative growth, we have stepped into the realm 
of Neurodiversity — an umbrella term for those who 
think differently. Neurodiversity is a proven approach 
to growing innovative thinking and the power comes 
from combining neuro-typicals with the neuro-diverse 
to deliver the business. Programs have been launched 
in the UK, Boston, Costa Rica and Cincinnati offices 
to learn as a Company how to hire this dynamic 
talent and capture candidates’ unique problem-
solving methods. We believe that people with ASD 
are a source of untapped talent as they are often 
focused, analytical and have a special appreciation 
for systems and patterns. That’s also the reason why 
these individuals are adding significant value to our 
Company. Employees from this program are currently 
working in the fields of R&D and Smart Robotic 
Automations. We see these programs as an innovation 
strategy to source diverse talents and drive business 
outcomes. Early results are positive, leading to plans  
to expand the program in the future. Making an Impact
10,000
children and young  
people with intellectual 
disabilities have been 
supported by the Special 
Olympics Project in  
alliance with Migros. 
83P&G Germany and REWE Build  
Inclusive Playgrounds 
With the citizenship campaign “Stück zum Glück” 
(“Piece of Happiness”), P&G Germany and REWE, one 
of the largest grocery chains in Germany, have joined 
forces with the non-profit group Aktion Mensch to 
build inclusive playgrounds across Germany over 
several years. The campaign demonstrates how a 
joint citizenship campaign can improve the lives of 
our consumers while also building the business. The 
objective is to build more than 30 inclusive playgrounds 
where children with and without disabilities can jointly 
experience new adventures every day. The project has 
built or renovated 17 playgrounds in the first half of  
its three-year commitment, and will leverage  
$1.1 million in donations. Herbal Essences Introduces Inclusive 
Bottle Design for People with Low  
or No Vision
Globally, it’s estimated that approximately 1.3 billion 
people live with some form of distance or near vision 
impairment, and 36 million people are classified as 
blind. Alleviating in-shower confusion helps these 
consumers perform daily tasks like showering with 
more confidence. P&G’s first ever Accessibility Leader, 
Sumaira (Sam) Latif, joined forces with Herbal Essences 
to make it easier for vision-impaired consumers 
to distinguish shampoo and conditioner products 
through the sense of touch. The new enhanced 
package features tactile indentations — stripes for 
shampoo and circles for conditioner — that help 
differentiate the bottles. Herbal Essences has been 
recognized by the Business Disability Forum with a 
Disability Smart Design Award in 2019 for designing 
outstanding products that recognize the needs of 
disabled consumers.Advancing Conversation and Action 
Across the Grocery Industry
What started out as a small-scale industry mentoring 
program, grew to become the inaugural Diversity 
in Grocery Conference held at Wembley Stadium in 
London on March 7, 2019. We played a leading role 
as one of five founding partners (Tesco, Accenture, 
Mondelez and Coca Cola) and one charity partner 
(GroceryAid) to advance conversations and drive action 
in the D&I space across the industry. The event was 
highly-attended with participants at all levels from a 
wide range of companies and disciplines across the 
grocery industry all with a common interest to take 
action in leading change, enabling them to achieve 
their best without being held back by bias. A mix of 
industry leaders candidly shared their own experiences 
and participants attended workshops that focused on 
inspiring ideas to take back to their organizations. The 
event enabled us to come together with key partners 
across the industry and move beyond the everyday 
business transactions to develop a deeper connection 
to the people that fuel the industry.Making an Impact
Herbal Essences is making sure  
their products are inclusive 
for all consumers with a visual 
impairment aid — raised 
indentations that differentiate 
shampoo and conditioner.
Seventeen playgrounds   
have already been  
built or renovated 
across Germany.
84Moving for Inclusion with  
Audio-described Ads in Spain
It is estimated that there are 3.85 million people 
with disabilities in Spain, representing 8.5% of the 
population. Of these, almost a million have some kind 
of sight loss. Our diaper brand Dodot is the first one 
in the Spanish market to broadcast its advertising to 
visually impaired people by incorporating an audio 
narrative placed on the content to describe what  
is shown in the images. As of September 2018, we 
promoted inclusion through additional brands,  
with a total of 60 audio-described ads. Expanding the Talent Pool
Studies show that diverse teams outperform 
homogeneous teams. The best thinking, best ideas 
and best innovations come from teams with diverse 
backgrounds and experiences, which provide different 
ways of thinking and working together. This year, 
Gallaudet University, a private university for the hearing 
impaired, supplied our headquarters in Cincinnati with 
three summer interns in IT cybersecurity, working on 
infosecurity across P&G’s operations. These hearing-
impaired interns excelled in their work and embodied 
our commitment to leveraging multiple sources of 
talent to meet business needs. There is a race for talent, 
specifically in IT fields like Information Security, so we 
are actively working through many channels to expand 
the pools of talent we draw from. Making an Impact
We are incorporating 
audio narratives in ads  
for visually impaired 
people, describing what’s 
shown in the images.
85Celebrating 50 Years Since  
Stonewall with World Pride
As a Company, we know how important it is to ensure 
all our employees feel included, valued and able to 
bring their best selves to work every day. We also know 
that as the world’s largest advertiser we can use our 
voice as a force for good and a force for growth. In 
honor of the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall uprising 
and 25th anniversary of our employee affinity group, 
GABLE, P&G and our brands celebrated the march 
toward equality for LGBT+ individuals. 
In addition to being one of 12 founding members of 
the first global coalition committed to fostering LGBT+ 
equality in the workplace throughout the world, we’re 
also a founding partner in Stonewall’s Global  
Diversity Champions effort. To celebrate Pride 2019, we were a platinum sponsor of 
the World Pride celebration in June in New York City. 
Throughout the week, we participated in  
various activities:
Queer City: A CNN Experience  was a multimedia 
museum experience that offered an intimate look 
at the everyday New Yorkers behind queer history’s 
landmark moments.
Herbal Essences Garden Wall  featured a selection 
of biodiverse flowers reaffirming the brand’s 
commitment to all those who express their true  
nature. Participants were invited to celebrate those 
who planted the seeds of the gay rights movement  
by placing a flower on the garden wall in their honor.
World Pride March capped off the week as our 
employees proudly strode down Fifth Avenue 
with a large float blasting live music and five P&G 
brands riding in fancy trikes — Gillette, Herbal 
Essences, Metamucil, Pantene and Secret. It was an 
unforgettable moment for employees!
Globally, we actively participated in nearly 50 Pride 
celebrations on five continents. We also marked a 
milestone with our 2019 expansion of Pride support 
into Asia with our presence in the Metro Manila Pride 
March in the Philippines.Crest Smile with Pride
In June, Crest Canada executed the 
#CrestSmileWithPride program for the third year.  
P&G employees, their families and friends marched 
with Crest during the Toronto Pride Parade. This was 
a part of a bigger shopper marketing program and 
video campaign that brought to life real stories about a 
time a smile from an ally made an impact on an LGBT+ 
community member. Crest also donated $50,000 
toward Canada’s largest LGBT+ community center. Changing the Culture
86Bangkok Plant Expands its D&I Efforts 
At P&G Thailand’s Bangkok Plant, we have holistic 
programs to support working women and working 
moms throughout their life stages, including extended 
maternity leave and upgraded medical insurance to 
cover maternity checkups. We have also developed 
enhanced trainings, networks and consultation sessions, 
from internal and external resources, to provide 
coaching on parenting, career advice and Work Life 
Solutions services for employees and their families. We 
also created a formal group to provide a trusting and 
supportive environment for working parents to share 
parenting tips and experiences. To advance female 
representation, we have female leaders join campus 
hirings and deliver leadership talks to showcase  
Company efforts in Gender Equality and Diversity  
& Inclusion as a part of our recruiting efforts. 
This year, we also extended our Diversity & Inclusion 
efforts beyond gender equality, adding four D&I areas 
that would best benefit the organization: Generations, 
GABLE — the affinity group for Gay, Ally, Bisexual, 
Lesbian and Transgender Employees, Flex@Work 
and Working Parents. Throughout the year, the team 
organized a full-fledged D&I campaign that included 
speaking opportunities, video broadcasts, booth 
activations, email campaigns, etc. To attract millennials, 
the plant underwent a digital transformation. For LGBT+ 
employees, the team kicked off trainings, upgraded 
policies for domestic partners and launched a campaign 
to be an ally of GABLE. On Flex@Work, training sessions 
for all employees were held to guide them on how to 
navigate their careers successfully. P&G Japan Further Drives D&I Externally
With its Diversity & Inclusion advocacy program, 
P&G Japan showcases its 25 years of growing D&I 
culture, systems and people within the organization. 
The Company also reached outside its walls to 
inspire Japanese society by its involvement at the 
“World Assembly for Women (WAW!) 2019, led by 
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and W20, where it 
conducted inclusion training for managers. This year’s 
efforts helped P&G Japan directly reach more than 
80 companies and organizations and more than a 
thousand business leaders. This is in addition to the 
more than 300 companies and organizations the 
Company has worked with in the last 2.5 years.
 
Changing the Culture
87P&G Employee Affinity Groups 
Affinity groups connect employees based 
on similar interests or aspects of diversity, 
enabling them to feel valued, respected 
and included, while empowering them 
to perform at their peak. They foster 
understanding for the interests and needs 
of employees in their groups and provide 
us with assistance in attracting, retaining 
and developing people. Additionally, affinity 
groups provide assistance in understanding 
and meeting the needs of consumers of 
their group, and expand our opportunities  
to make a difference in local communities  
through volunteering. 
Global Affinity Groups 
People with Disabilities Network 
At P&G, we value diversity, including disability diversity, 
that’s why 38 years ago we founded the People with 
Disabilities (PWD) Network aligned with the U.S. 
enactment of the Americans with Disabilities Act.  
The global PWD group shares “coping strategies” with 
each other and with colleagues to enable others with 
disabilities to perform at their peak in the workplace 
and enable managers and colleagues to become 
disability confident. The PWD Network also leverages 
their diversity to influence Company strategies on 
things like inclusive product development and  
inclusive advertising.GABLE 
GABLE is dedicated to fostering an inclusive, 
supportive global network that enables Lesbian, Gay, 
Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT+) employees, and 
their allies, to contribute to their fullest potential and to 
bring their whole self to work every day. What began 
more than 25 years ago as largely a North American-
centered network for fostering workplace equality for 
LGBT+ employees has grown into a supportive and 
global community, with chapters in 40 countries in 
every region of the world. These chapters represent the 
diversity of our employees, as well as strong allies to 
support individuality and inclusion.Corporate Women’s Leadership Team  
The Corporate Women’s Leadership Team (CWLT)  
is committed to the advancement of women, helping 
ensure that women’s skills and insights are well 
represented throughout our global Company and 
at all levels of leadership. The CWLT continues to 
be actively involved in events and programs that 
promote mentoring, sponsorship, the development 
of leadership skills, flexibility and increasing 
representation of women throughout the Company. 
The Corporate Women’s 
Leadership Team (CWLT)  
is committed to the 
advancement of women. Changing the Culture
88Regional Affinity Groups 
African Ancestry Leadership Network 
The African Ancestry Leadership Network (AALN) was 
the first employee affinity group established at P&G 
and reflects P&G’s century-old commitment to the 
African American community. In the early 1950s, the 
Company reaffirmed its commitment to diversity by 
hiring black skilled technicians and laborers. In 1958, 
with the launch of Drene Hair Care print advertising, 
we progressively evolved our advertising and media 
communications to include positive portrayals of 
diverse communities, which was not common at the 
time. African Ancestry employees have been integral 
in helping the Company become a corporate leader 
in innovation, leadership, diversity and inclusion by 
developing capabilities and insights that improve 
representation and contributions at all levels of the 
Company, and this has been a catalyst for other  
affinity organizations. The AALN’s current focus 
includes recruiting, mentoring and sponsorship,  
talent development, and community engagement.
Hispanic Leadership Network 
There are approximately 60,000 Latinos living in the 
Cincinnati area, home to our global headquarters.  
With language, economic and education barriers,  
life in Cincinnati can be difficult for many Hispanics. 
A team of dedicated P&G volunteers comprising the 
Hispanic Leadership Network in Cincinnati are united in 
their quest to improve people’s lives inside and outside 
the Company. This group volunteers in the community 
in the areas of health, education and the arts, and 
actively engages in programs that support  
young Hispanic talent.Asian Pacific American Leadership Team 
One of the fastest-growing groups in North America, 
the Asian Pacific American Leadership Team (APALT) 
represents the Asian-Pacific Americans who have 
made major contributions to our business, at every 
level of the Company. The team offers opportunities 
for networking and is actively involved in recruiting, 
retaining, developing and advancing employees of 
Asian-Pacific heritage. 
Native American Indian Leadership Team 
The mission of the Native American Indian Leadership 
Team (NAILT) is to enable employees with a strong 
Native American Indian cultural identity to bring 
their whole selves to work, in a way that leverages 
and respects the NAI diversity of our workplace 
and supports the communities in which we live. By 
strengthening the network across North America, 
NAILT aims to develop talent of North American Indian 
employees through mentoring, training, informal 
connections and talent career support. The group also 
volunteers in local communities where our employees 
live and work, aiming to improve the lives of people 
through education and community service. 
Veterans and Reservists Network 
The Veterans and Reservists Affinity Network enables 
P&G to be the employer of choice for military veterans 
and reservists by unleashing their talents for maximum 
impact and helping them strengthen local 
communities. The network focuses on recruiting 
veterans, enabling our employees still serving in the 
Reserves/National Guard, upskilling veterans for bigger 
impact, providing experienced P&G Military Veterans as 
mentors to veteran new hires, and giving back to the  
25 communities where our P&G Military Veterans work.Affinity groups are  
key enablers for  
employees to feel  
valued, respected  
and included.
Changing the Culture
89Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality  
Index Perfect Score — 6th Year in a Row
Forbes Best Employers for Diversity 
Diversity Inc. Top Companies for Diversity
Disability Equality Index (DEI) Best Places to Work 2019
Disability Matters Workforce Award for Marketplace
The National Organization of Disability (NOD)  
Leading Disability Employer Seal
DiversityComm/U.S. Veterans Magazine — Top Supplier 
Diversity Program
The Corporate Charter of Diversity Award  
for Participation in 7th German Diversity Day 
Company Agreement for Equal Opportunities and 
Equal Participation of Disabled People at P&G GermanyCanada’s Best Diversity Employer Award 2019 
Canada’s Top Employers for Young People 2019 
Costa Rica Incluye 2018
Awards and Recognitions
90Gender Equality
91We aspire to build a better world for all of us — inside and outside of P&G. A world  
free from gender bias, with equal voice and equal representation for all individuals.  
A world where everyone sees equal. When we do this, economies grow, communities  
are healthier, businesses can thrive, and the world is a better place for everyone.
At P&G, we’re focused on three areas where we can have the greatest impact. First, we’re 
leveraging our significant voice in advertising and media to tackle gender bias. We’re also 
removing barriers to education for girls and economic opportunities for women through 
corporate and brand programs and policy advocacy. And we’re creating an inclusive, 
gender-equal environment within P&G, while advocating for gender and intersectional 
equality in workplaces everywhere, so that everyone can contribute to their full potential. 
In each of these areas, we partner with highly-engaged organizations that share our 
commitment, combining our resources, talents and skills to have a bigger impact.
92HIGHLIGHT
Always Works to 
#EndPeriodPoverty  
and Keep Girls in School
Lack of access to period products is often referred to 
as ‘period poverty,’ and it causes girls to miss school, 
sports and other developmental experiences which can 
limit girls’ confidence and potential far beyond puberty. 
In countries like Canada, Mexico, Turkey, the UK and the 
U.S., a surprising number of girls miss school because 
they don’t have access to period products — nearly one 
out of five girls in the U.S.! 
As a brand that has championed girls’ confidence 
for more than 35 years, Always launched the 
#EndPeriodPoverty campaign to raise awareness of 
the issue and encourage people around the world to 
take action — and they have! Since starting in the UK, 
Always has expanded the campaign to 10 countries 
and donated more than 50 million period products. 
In March 2019, the UK government announced free 
period products in secondary schools and universities. 
In Canada, the Toronto Public School Board made a 
commitment to provide free period products across  
its nearly 600 elementary and secondary schools. 
Together with P&G, Always also supported the launch 
of the Girls Opportunity Alliance (GOA). We matched 
public donations up to $250,000 to GOA’s Go Fund 
Me campaign for grassroots girls’ education projects 
around the world, including puberty education, period 
products and other support to help girls stay in school. 
We know that when we give girls the opportunity,  
they seize it #LikeAGirl!
93HIGHLIGHT
Equal Work, Equal Sweat,  
Equal Pay
As a brand made for women since 1956, Secret 
wholeheartedly believes women should not have 
to sweat being paid fairly. On the heels of the U.S. 
Women’s National Team (USWNT) World Cup win 
in July, the Secret brand shocked the world when it 
announced that it would donate more than $500,000 
to the USWNT Players Association in an effort to close 
the gender pay gap in U.S. soccer — making it the  
first official sponsor to publicly support the team’s 
fight for equal pay. 
Pictured right: Crystal Dunn, Member of USWNT
Secret was the first official 
sponsor to publicly support the 
U.S. Women’s National Soccer 
Team’s fight for equal pay.
94HIGHLIGHT
Ariel #ShareTheLoad and 
Pampers #LoveTheChange 
Promote Equality
Ariel expanded its 2015 #ShareTheLoad campaign 
this year with a new film that asks, “Isn’t it time we 
change the way we raise our sons and teach them 
what we teach our daughters?” Ariel is hoping to 
challenge social norms and change hearts, minds 
and behaviors. Since the beginning of the campaign, 
the percentage of Indian men who think “household 
chores are a woman’s job” dropped from 79% to 52%. 
Pampers research found that nearly three out of four 
dads feel society places less value on their parenting 
role, which is especially evident when it comes to 
changing table access in public restrooms. So in 
conjunction with Father’s Day, Pampers committed 
to install 5,000 changing tables in restrooms across 
the U.S. and Canada by 2021 in connection with its 
#LoveTheChange campaign. 
95HIGHLIGHT
A New Playbook for  
Workplace Equality
At P&G, we are exposing and challenging 
the myths about women at work — and 
advocating for a new playbook that more 
broadly addresses the systems, policies, 
processes and bias that hold women back in 
the workplace and the world. At P&G-hosted 
#WeSeeEqual forums around the world,  
we convened notable advocates for gender 
equality, industry partners, government 
representatives and our own engaged 
employees, inspiring all to continue to 
advocate for change within the workplace  
and in their communities. 
India 
We were honored to be joined in Mumbai  
by Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, United 
Nations Under-Secretary-General and 
Executive Director of UN Women, as well 
as gender equality champions from Egypt, 
South Africa and UAE.
Singapore
Julia Gillard, former Prime Minister of 
Australia, highlighted her experiences in 
politics and current academic work. We 
also introduced the graduates of the first 
Women’s Entrepreneurs Development 
program co-led by P&G and WEConnect 
International.
Cincinnati 
In honor of International Women’s Day,  
a powerful lineup of truth-tellers from  
sports, comedy, music and more had 
engaging conversations about gender  
and intersectional equality. Guest speakers 
included Abby Wambach, Hannah and 
Jake Graf, Luvvie Ajayi, Maysoon Zahid, 
MILCK, Sabrina Jalees and Wade Davis. Beyond the intersectional conversations at 
the #WeSeeEqual forums, our “Women at 
Work: Myth vs. Reality” interactive exhibit 
was a highlight during the Women Deliver 
2019 Conference in Vancouver, Canada. This 
international four-day event championed 
gender equality and the health and 
rights of girls and women everywhere. 
During that event, we were announced 
as a founding member of the Deliver for 
Good Business Ally Network and hosted 
meaningful partner conversations with 
more than 20 organizations focused on 
solutions to achieve gender equality.
Pictured below: Julia Gillard with Carolyn Tastad visiting  
the Myth vs. Reality: Women at Work exhibit. 
96HIGHLIGHT
Influencing Culture Through 
Media and Advertising
We understand the opportunity we have to influence 
culture through media and advertising — and we 
believe that equality in our ads begins with greater 
equality in the advertising industry. This year, we 
championed efforts including: 
• Association of National Advertiser’s #SeeHer 
Movement, which promotes the accurate portrayal 
of women and girls.
• Free the Work, which aims to get more women and 
underrepresented creators involved in all aspects 
of the creative process.
• #SheIsEqual Summit, co-hosted with Global 
Citizen and the Association of National Advertisers, 
to inspire broader action for gender equality during 
the 2018 UN General Assembly in New York City.
97HIGHLIGHT
#ShareTheCare Helps Workplace 
Equality Begin at Home
We embrace the new expectation that parenting 
and caring for the home is for all genders. Our new 
parental leave policy in Europe, #ShareTheCare, 
enables fathers to take an average of eight weeks 
of paid leave within the first 18 weeks of their child 
being born or adopted. More than a policy change, 
it is a step toward shifting cultural norms by making 
child caregiving gender unbiased.
Photo Credit: Maryia Ramanava
Our new parental leave  
policy in Europe seeks  
to make child caregiving  
gender unbiased.
98Gender Equality
Message from Carolyn Tastad  
Using Our Voice 
Making an Impact 
Keeping Girls in School 
Girls in STEM 
Economic Advancement for Women  
Changing the Culture  
Gender Equality Partners 
Awards and Recognitions  
99“We have an unwavering commitment to gender equality.  
Our aspiration is to create a world free from bias — with equal 
voice and equal representation for all individuals. 
Over the past year, we’ve used our voice to advocate for  
a new playbook for gender and intersectional equality in  
the workplace — one that moves beyond targets and quotas 
for women and the sponsorship of women and women’s 
development programs. While these things are important, 
they aren’t enough. 
To go further and faster, we need more robust talent systems, 
and more intentional planning. We need to drive equality-
based policies and practices — like pay and wealth equality 
and parenting leave for both parents — because caregiving 
has no gender, and equality at home enables equality at work. 
And, we need to broaden our definition of what a leader looks 
like, by developing highly-collaborative leaders with different 
styles, experiences and skills who can bring people together 
and build the workplace of the future.
Several of our brands are also raising their voices and taking 
meaningful action to remove barriers to equality for women 
and girls, from tackling pay inequality to ending period 
poverty to showing men as equal partners. 
This is what we believe at P&G and it’s the change we’re  
trying to drive broadly.”Message from  
Carolyn Tastad
Group President North America, 
Chief Sales Officer & 
Executive Sponsor  
Gender Equality
100Influencing Culture Through  
Media and Advertising 
We understand the opportunity we have to influence 
culture through media and advertising, and we believe 
that equality in our ads begins with greater equality 
in the advertising industry. This year, we championed 
these efforts:
•   The Association of National Advertiser’s #SeeHer 
Movement, which promotes the accurate  
portrayal of women and girls.
•   Free the Work, which aims to get more women and 
underrepresented creators involved in all aspects 
of the creative process. In order to sustain this 
movement, we’re committed to fostering a creative 
supply chain that promotes equality — leveraging 
50% women in brand teams, agencies and 
commercial directors who produce ads.
•   #SheIsEqual Summit, co-hosted with Global Citizen 
and the Association of National Advertisers, to inspire 
broader action for gender equality during the 2018 
UN General Assembly in New York City.
These actions underscore our commitment to 
constructively disrupt media and create a world where 
everyone feels well-represented, included and valued.Promoting Gender Equality in India, 
Middle East and Africa’s Ad Industry  
at the Dubai Lynx Creative Festival
We attended Dubai Lynx, the Middle East’s biggest 
creative festival, to share our views on why gender 
equality matters, both in front of the camera as well 
as behind. During an all-brand panel discussion on 
removing bias from advertising in the Middle East and 
North Africa (MENA) region, we shared our views on 
why we believe in gender equality and how we have 
used our brands to promote positive conversations 
about gender issues, including Ariel’s #ShareTheLoad 
campaign. We also discussed how we can promote 
gender equality through the creatives we hire to 
tell powerful stories locally. We are committed to 
changing how both men and women are perceived in 
advertising globally, including in markets across India, 
the Middle East and Africa. Using Our Voice
At Dubai Lynx, we shared 
why we are using our brands 
to promote positive debate 
about gender issues. 
101Equal Work, Equal Sweat, Equal Pay 
On the heels of the U.S. Women’s National Team 
(USWNT) World Cup win, Secret shocked the world 
with an announcement that it would donate more 
than a half million dollars to the USWNT Players 
Organization in an effort to close the gender pay  
gap in soccer — making it the first official sponsor  
to so publicly support the team’s fight for equal pay. 
“Secret knows there are many things 
that make women sweat, but we 
believe equality should never be one 
of them. We’re committed to using 
our brand voice and platform for 
progress, with a focus on fighting for 
equal pay and equal representation 
for all women.” 
SARA SAUNDERS  
Associate Brand Director for Secret 
“We have supported this history-making team all 
year long, and we are focused on driving advocacy 
and action for systemic change,” said Sara Saunders, 
Associate Brand Director for Secret. “This change begins with us doing our part to help close 
the gender pay  gap with a contribution of  mo re than 
$500,000 to the U.S. Women’ s National Team  Players 
Association. This figure is inspired by t he strong women 
of the USWNT. As a par tner of U.S. S occer, we recog nize 
this is a multi-laye red issue, and we  look forward to 
working with the USSF (United States Soccer 
Federation) and  the USWNT Playe rs Association to help 
recognize that equal work and  equal sweat deserve 
equal pay for all.”
First shared via a one-page mani festo in The New York 
Times, this proclamation was met with widespr ead 
enthusiasm and  respect from t he players, press  
and public. The announcement sparked coverage  
by nearly all major news and s ports news outle ts  
and on social m edia. Using Our Voice
Secret donated more than 
$500,000 to the USWNT 
Players Organization  
in an effort to close the  gender pay gap in soccer.
102Ariel Urges Families To #Sharetheload 
The Ariel #ShareTheLoad campaign in India launched 
in 2015, aiming to open lines of communication about 
equal distribution of household chores among family 
members. The brand started by asking a simple 
question: “Why is laundry only a woman’s job?” In 
2016, the campaign and question evolved to, “Why is 
laundry only a mother’s job?” With a third campaign 
in 2019, Sons #ShareTheLoad, Ariel asked, “Isn’t it 
time we change the way we raise our sons and teach 
them what we teach our daughters?” Through these 
provocative campaigns, Ariel is challenging social 
norms and helping to change hearts, minds and 
behaviors around gender equality. Statistics show 
that when Ariel first launched the #ShareTheLoad 
campaign, 79% of Indian men thought ‘household 
chores are a woman’s job.’ In 2018, this number was 
down to 52%, signifying that change has begun. After the successful campaign in India, Ariel continues 
to engage on the sharing of tasks with a campaign 
specifically designed for the French market. The 
#PartageDesTaches campaign aims to promote the 
idea that there are no more excuses for not sharing 
household chores. When children see their father 
doing laundry, they understand that it’s not just a 
feminine task. This campaign has been awarded  
“Best Responsible Communication Campaign” by 
the French Advertisers Association (UDM). UDM 
recognized Ariel’s engagement and willingness  
to renew a societal debate, using its brand image  
and established reputation. Pampers Commits  
to Provide 5,000 
Baby Changing 
Tables in Men’s  
Public Restrooms 
across North  
America by 2021
Did you know that dads 
spend three times more time on childcare versus 
40 years ago, but nine out of 10 have experienced 
a restroom without a changing table? Although 
legislation in the U.S. has been passed federally 
(BABIES Act — mandates a changing table in all 
restrooms in federal buildings) and locally (NY and 
California), there is still a need throughout the 
country. Pampers recognizes dads are more hands-
on than ever and wants to help enable them to take 
the best care of their babies. As part of its “Love the 
Change” campaign and just in time for Father’s Day 
2019, Pampers announced its commitment to provide 
5,000 changing tables for men’s restrooms across 
North America by 2021, so more dads and babies can 
#LoveTheChange together when they’re out-and-about. 
Pampers is working with partners, such as father Donte 
Palmer who founded #squatforchange, to champion 
thousands of dads who have used social media to voice 
their desire to see changing table equality. Within three 
months, nearly 1,000 Pampers-sponsored Koala Kare 
changing tables have been installed across the U.S.  
and Canada. Using Our Voice
Ariel is challenging social norms 
and helping to change hearts, 
minds and behaviors around 
gender equality.
103Using Our Voice
SK-II’s “Meet Me Halfway”  
Inspires Single Women in China 
to Overcome Marriage Pressure 
by Taking the First Step 
Millions of young single women in China experience a 
disconnect from their parents citing marriage pressure 
as one of the top reasons. Many find themselves 
having to choose between living up to their parents’ 
and society’s expectations and timelines of marriage 
and their own dreams and aspirations.
SK-II premiered an online documentary film that 
further broaches the topic of marriage pressure 
with an emotional appeal to single women worldwide — “Meet Me Halfway.” An extension of the 
SK-II’s ongoing #changedestiny philosophy, “Meet Me 
Halfway” follows the real-life stories of three young 
single Chinese women as they bravely take on the 
daunting first steps of reaching out to their parents 
after years of avoiding and not returning home due  
to marriage pressure.The film takes viewers to the heart of the matter, 
candidly showing the women’s first attempts of opening up to their parents about their lives and 
the marriage pressure they have been dealing with. 
Through meeting halfway, both literally and figuratively, 
daughters begin to see their parents in a different 
light and come to the realization that the questions 
from their parents causing their burden were coming from a place of love and genuine care. Through 
bridging daughters and parents and facilitating an 
open dialogue about marriage pressure, SK-II hopes to 
provide a platform where mutual understanding can 
be achieved to empower women to make their own 
choice, in their own time. 
Learn more about SK-II #changedestiny 
at www.sk-ii.com .
SK-II hopes to  
empower single  
women to make  
their own choice,  
in their own time. 
104105
Making an Impact —   
Keeping Girls in SchoolINTRODUCTION  ETHICS & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  COMMUNITY IMPACT  DIVERSITY & INCLUSION  GENDER EQUALITY  ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Always Works to #EndPeriodPoverty 
and Keep Girls in School
Lack of access to period products due to economic 
reasons is often referred to as ‘period poverty,’ and 
it causes girls to miss school, confidence-building 
activities and other developmental experiences, 
limiting girls’ potential and opportunities far beyond 
puberty. In countries like Canada, Mexico, Turkey, the 
UK and the U.S., a surprising number of girls miss 
school because they don’t have access to period 
products — nearly one out of five girls in the U.S.! 
As a brand that has been championing girls’ 
confidence for more than 35 years, Always expanded 
their efforts and launched the #EndPeriodPoverty 
campaign in 2017 to raise awareness of the issue,  
spark conversation, and take action with the help of 
people all over the world. The campaign started in  
the UK and since then, has launched in 10 countries 
and donated more than 50 million period products 
to help girls stay in school. In March 2019, the UK 
government announced free period products in 
secondary schools and colleges and was followed 
by the Toronto Public School Board with free period 
products in all elementary and secondary schools. Together with P&G, Always also supported the launch 
of the Girls Opportunity Alliance (GOA). We matched 
public donations up to $250,000 to GOA’s Go Fund 
Me campaign for grassroots girls’ education projects 
around the world, including puberty education, period 
products and other support to help girls stay in school. 
We know that when we give girls the opportunity,  
they seize it #LikeAGirl! 
India 
In 1995, Whisper introduced its flagship Whisper 
Menstrual Health & Hygiene School Program, a 
health and hygiene program wherein we educate 
girls on menstrual hygiene practices and build their 
confidence to overcome the overwhelming challenges 
they face during puberty. We also handpick teachers, 
who are mothers and pad users, to advocate and 
counsel school girls on the use of sanitary protection 
and bust the myths and superstitions associated with 
the use of sanitary pads. Today, we run this program 
with the active support of 40,000 schools educating 
about five million adolescent girls annually. Since 1995, 
we have educated more than 25 million girls about 
menstrual hygiene. We are also working with the 
Goa Government to set up an educational module on 
Menstrual Hygiene Management as part of the value-
added education in government schools.
105Always Works to #EndPeriodPoverty 
and Keep Girls in School (continued)
Turkey
Always sister brand, Orkid, sparked a national 
conversation in Turkey with #KeepGirlsInSchool, a 
campaign to raise awareness about the lack of access 
to period products affecting millions of girls throughout the country. In partnership with local NGO TOCEV, 
Orkid committed to donating four million pads and 
organizing hygiene education classes across Turkey. 
The campaign was launched at the first global “Let’s Talk!” event, celebrating women’s health champions, 
followed by the kick-off of a nationwide campaign featuring celebrities and influencers. South Africa, Kenya, Nigeria
The Always Keeping Girls in School program reaches 
vulnerable girls with essential puberty and confidence 
education and donations of sanitary pads, so that they can commit to their education and their future. Since 
2008, we have reached more than 200,000 girls and 
donated more than 13 million pads in South Africa, 
Kenya and Nigeria. Menstruation-related issues are 
a gender-based barrier to girls’ education. There are 
many reasons that children may miss school — but 
being a girl should not be one of them.
France
A survey conducted in late 2018 by Always shows  
that about 130,000 French girls miss school each  
year because they do not have access to hygienic 
protection during their period. This is why the brand partnered with Dons Solidaires — an association that 
fights against waste and exclusion and launched  
the campaign #Nonàprécaritémenstruelle (No to 
Period Poverty). 
During March and April 2019, for every Always pack 
purchased or photo posted on social media with the 
hashtag #Nonàprécaritémenstruelle, Always donated 
an Always pad to Dons Solidaires. In total, the brand 
donated four million pads to the association, to be 
distributed to vulnerable young girls. We will have  
a second wave of the campaign next year.
There are many reasons that  
children may miss school — but being 
a girl should not be one of them.Making an Impact —  
Keeping Girls in School
106Always Works to #EndPeriodPoverty 
and Keep Girls in School (continued)
Malaysia
We partnered with global drug and perfumery retailer, 
Watsons, to support girls living in orphanages in 
Malaysia by providing them with access to Whisper 
sanitary pads. Thanks to the partnership with the 
local NGO, The Lost Food Project, more than 100,000 
sanitary pads were provided to girls enabling them to 
continue to participate in school and other activities 
during their periods. The program not only benefitted 
the girls who received the products but also enabled 
the orphanages to use the resulting savings to 
purchase other necessities like food and diapers  
for babies. Canada
Always has provided more than five million elementary 
and secondary school students puberty and education 
materials through its long-standing partnership  
with schools across Canada. This year, Always donated 
more than 1.5 million period products through schools 
that support the Always Puberty and Confidence 
Education Program. 
Recently, Always and Tampax announced a partnership 
with United Way. The Period Promise Research Project, 
funded by the local provincial government will study 
the magnitude of period poverty, what impact it has on 
our communities, and determine if agencies working 
in our communities might be a part of the solution. 
For a full calendar year, a handful of agencies around 
the province will be provided with free menstrual 
products. These agencies and some of their clients will 
provide the United Way of the Lower Mainland with 
information about how this product has affected their 
organization or their personal lives. That data and any 
policy recommendations that develop as a result will 
be distilled and reported back to the Government of 
British Columbia. This is the first research project of  
its kind in Canada.Making an Impact —   
Keeping Girls in School
107Introduction of Greater China  
#LikeAGirl Butterfly Program 
The Greater China #LikeAGirl (LAG) program was 
launched in 2016 and has become an annual corporate 
responsibility event in honor of Women’s Day. The 
mission of LAG is to empower girls to be whoever 
they want to be. There are millions of girls who are left 
behind in villages as their parents go into the cities 
to work. The program provides pubescent village 
girls with care toolkits during their period confidence 
classes. The toolkits include Whisper period products 
and puberty education brochures. This donation is in 
addition to the Whisper pads donated to schools in 
China through our school education programs. 
Always — Teachers of Confidence
In 2017 we discovered that one out of five Romanian 
children abandon school and give up on their 
dreams. We want to help them build their confidence 
throughout education and inspire them to follow 
their dreams. In partnership with Teach for Romania, 
a local NGO directly connected with children from 
underprivileged areas, we launched the Teachers of 
Confidence. The campaign enables professors from 
Teach for Romania to focus a full year on inspiring 
children and helping build their confidence. In 2019,  
we took the partnership to the next level by supporting 
six “Teachers of Confidence” in teaching history, 
literature, art and Latin in six different schools. Evax Girls Everywhere
The Girls Everywhere in Spain project is a joint effort of 
Evax feminine protection pads and the Inspiring Girls 
Foundation. The mission of the project is to increase 
the visibility of females in a variety of professional roles, 
including science, music, engineering and sports. By 
inviting women from a variety of professions to schools 
to share their stories with school-age girls, we help 
remove the biases and mental barriers that can keep 
girls from achieving their professional ambitions. We 
hope that by seeing women in a variety of jobs and 
professions, girls will be more confident in choosing 
the careers that are best for them. Making an Impact —   
Keeping Girls in School
Millions of “left behind”  
girls get period products  
from our school  
education programs. 
108Coding the Solution: Getting More 
Girls Into STEM
We are committed to reducing barriers preventing 
girls from accessing education. This is especially 
important in science, technology, engineering and 
math (STEM) fields, where fewer than one in five 
computer science graduates are women. This year, we 
signed on as a corporate partner with Girls Who Code, 
an international non-profit organization working to 
close the gender gap in technology and change the 
image of what a programmer looks like and does. Our 
Chief Information Officer, Javier Polit, also joined the 
board of directors for Girls Who Code. The partnership 
is focused on expanding the organization’s after-
school clubs to include free after-school programs for 
3rd–12th grade girls, run by community leaders, teachers, 
librarians and parents. The club’s curriculum is 
designed to be accessible to girls with a wide range of 
computer science experience. This summer, Walmart 
and P&G hosted a Girls Who Code summer immersion 
program at offices in Arkansas, where dozens of 11th 
and 12th grade girls spent seven weeks learning to 
code. During the free program, participants learned 
about computer science, gained exposure to tech jobs, and joined a national sisterhood of girls who are using 
computer science to become change-makers. Upon graduation from the program, students enter the Girls 
Who Code alumni network, where they can connect 
with tens of thousands of girls across the U.S. who are 
using technology to make a difference. Supporting STEM for Girls in Egypt
In cooperation with the Ministry of Education, P&G 
Egypt conducted STEM training sessions for school 
girls in Cairo to raise their interpersonal skills and  
help them prepare for their professional careers  
after graduation. The Egypt STEM Schools Project 
provided a springboard for the country’s youth to 
succeed through innovative STEM education. The students benefitted from the program by attending sessions covering topics such as supply chain, 
automation, leadership skills, technical writing,  
project management and presentation skills. Breaking STEM Myths — Our Mandideep 
Distribution Center Employs Female Material Handling Equipment Operators
We continue to focus our efforts in achieving 
gender equality in the workplace and breaking the 
myths associated with women in STEM in India. 
We became one of the first companies in India to 
double the number of female material handling 
equipment operators. Women employees were 
trained on handling material with a forklift, warehouse 
management systems, safety procedures, racking 
operations and emergency procedures. They were  
also given training on handling pallets which helped 
build skills and set them up for success. Making an Impact — Girls in STEM
We signed on as  
a corporate partner  
with Girls Who Code 
to close the gender  
gap in technology.
109P&G Supports Women-Owned 
Businesses Globally 
In partnership with our external partners — The Ohio 
River Valley Women’s Business Council (ORV-WBC), Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC), UN Women and WEConnect International —  we proudly support women through several regionally based women’s business development programs. These programs help empower women business owners to grow and scale their companies by creating meaningful opportunities to educate, train and build business networks. Through this program, we have been able to empower 280 women-owned companies in the U.S., India, UK, Turkey, China, Nigeria, South Africa, Singapore, Costa Rica, Brazil, Pakistan, UAE, Egypt and Mexico. Making an Impact — Economic 
Advancement for Women
P&G and WEConnect Partner to  
Train Women-Owned Businesses
Asia Pacific P&G’s Asia Pacific team, in partnership with WEConnect International, held the first Women Entrepreneurs Development Program in Southeast Asia. The program reflects our commitment to women economic empowerment by focusing on promoting a more diverse supply network. The program offers women-majority-owned businesses the opportunity to access a comprehensive training program across 10 different modules, including Legal, HR, Procurement, and Sales and Marketing. Nineteen women entrepreneurs, representing a diverse range of small and medium-sized women-owned enterprises in Singapore, were selected from among more than 55 applicants to participate on the program. They went through ten training sessions and several special sessions facilitated by our trainers in participation with the Singapore government and U.S. Embassy in Singapore. The 2019 program culminated with the 2019 cohort graduation event during the P&G APAC #WeSeeEqual Symposium in May. 
With WEConnect International, 
we support women-owned 
businesses through training 
designed to help them  
grow and scale.
110P&G and WEConnect Partner to  
Train Women-Owned Businesses 
(continued)
South Africa  
In partnership with WEConnect International, we 
launched the second edition of the P&G Business 
Development Program in South Africa. This year, more 
than 20 women-owned businesses were selected to 
attend the five-week training event designed to develop 
their capacity as suppliers and, ultimately, help them 
grow and scale. The program, set in Johannesburg, 
consists of ten modules (two per week) that are 
facilitated by senior members of the our leadership 
team. In the spirit of collaboration, we also welcomed 
external trainers from other corporate members 
and governments to provide valuable expertise and 
experience to the curriculum. “We are delighted to 
partner with WEConnect International again in South 
Africa. We had 120 applicants and were unfortunately 
only able to select 24 women business owners for this 
year,” said Shereen Wardakan, P&G Purchases Leader 
South Africa. 
In addition to the training content, the networking 
represents a unique opportunity to foster engagement 
between our senior management trainers and 
women business owners. This dynamic program 
enables participants to share best practices, ideas and 
experiences, increasing the total value of the program 
for both the women business owners and the P&G team. Advancing Women’s Economic 
Opportunities for a More Inclusive World
Becoming a strategic partner of the Women’s Forum 
for the Economy and Society marked another step 
forward in our efforts to promote a world free from 
gender bias. The Women’s Forum is among the top 
five most influential platforms worldwide, dedicated to 
highlighting women’s voices and perspectives on global 
issues. Together, we co-created the Supplier Diversity 
Daring Circle, a collaborative effort with WEConnect, UN Women and other partners of the Women’s Forum. 
This coalition aims to build the foundation for supplier 
diversity in Europe and the missing infrastructure 
needed to support women-owned businesses to 
grow and gain visibility to corporate buyers and 
governments. Notably, competitors and organizations 
from multiple industries are coming together with the 
ambition to create more diverse and gender-responsive 
supply chains, serving as an accelerator for women’s 
economic empowerment. We were also proud that 
Shweta Sharma, Director, P&G Global Travel Retail, was 
selected among the 11 Rising Talents 2018. The Women’s 
Forum Rising Talent initiative strives to recognize 
highly talented young women who are on their way to 
becoming influential figures of the world’s economies 
and societies and serve as role models for leaders of 
tomorrow. Through this initiative, the Women’s Forum 
brings to life the belief that the identification and 
nurturing of top talent among new generations of 
women is critical for the future of global business  
and society. Making an Impact —   
Economic Advancement for Women
We are proud that 
Shweta Sharma, 
director, P&G Global 
Travel Retail, was 
selected among the  
11 Rising Talents 2018. 
111Making an Impact — Economic 
Advancement for Women
P&G Brazil’s First Supplier 
Diversity Program
P&G Brazil, in partnership with WEConnect 
International, initiated the First Supplier Diversity Program aimed to strengthen women-owned companies in Brazil. This is part of the Company’s commitment to direct two billion dollars of its purchasing budget to women-owned businesses.  
The initiative that was already kicked off in India, Turkey, Nigeria, UK, Mexico, China and South Africa,  was extended to Brazil, Costa Rica and Singapore in 2019. In Brazil, 25 small and medium-sized companies, with at least 51% of ownership and control under one or more women, were selected between November 2018 and January 2019 for the program. The program aspires to provide access of women-owned companies to the global supply chains through the improvement of their business management models. “The female public accounts for about 85% of the purchasing power worldwide, but less than 1% of multinationals’ spending on purchases goes to women-led companies. As a Company committed to diversity, inclusion and gender equality, we want to change this scenario and invest  in these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs  so they have the skills to grow their business,” said Juliana Azevedo, P&G Brazil General Manager. Ibu Nakhoda Hidup Mothers’ 
Entrepreneurship Program in Malaysia
The Ibu Nakhoda Hidup (INH) mothers’ 
entrepreneurship program, in collaboration with 
the Malaysian retailer Mydin Mohamed Holdings 
Berhad (MYDIN) and Pertubuhan Pembangunan Kendiri Wanita dan Gadis (WOMEN:girls), celebrated 
its fifth anniversary in 2019. The program provides 
support and assistance to mother entrepreneurs 
across Malaysia with a focus of helping them to 
extend their businesses. This year, the program also 
included a bazaar where 20 alumni of previous Ibu 
Nakhoda Hidup editions showcased their businesses 
through a discussion/mentoring event with mother 
entrepreneurs and their partners. They also had 
a roadshow that traveled to different locations to 
maximize the impact and support women’s economic 
empowerment in Malaysia.P&G Pakistan Initiative for Women’s 
Economic Empowerment
Through our social cause programs, we have partnered 
with Health Oriented Preventive Education (HOPE) 
and UN Women for women’s skill-development and 
girls’ education in Pakistan. Now in its second year, this 
program is expected to benefit an estimated 10,000 
women and girls over a three-year period. We have also 
supported the UN Women-led report on Stimulating 
Women’s Entrepreneurship through Gender Responsive 
Procurement in the Public and Private Sector to help 
women-owned businesses access equal opportunities 
through affirmative procurement, investment and 
supply chain policies. The report was launched by UN 
Women and P&G Pakistan in Islamabad in May 2019. We’re providing support 
for mother entrepreneurs 
across Malaysia through 
a program meant to 
extend their businesses.
112Promoting Women Entrepreneurship 
Projects in Spain
Many women consider starting their own business as a 
good professional alternative to working for someone 
else. However, only about 12% of entrepreneurship 
projects have a woman as a CEO or founder. For 
the second year, our beauty brands in Spain have 
partnered with Womenalia, a recognized network of more than 280,000 professional women and seven perfumery chains, to enhance entrepreneurship 
opportunities for women via the launch of the “Sigue 
Adelante” (Keep Going) grants. This year, grants were 
given to six entrepreneur women to launch their 
business projects and have access to funding, training, 
mentoring and a co-working space. This second edition 
has received incredible support with a total of 700 
stores participating. Public relations and social media support also has raised participation to 70 projects. P&G Thailand Partners with UN  
Women to Promote Gender Equality
P&G Thailand has been partnering programs with 
UN Women since 2013. This year, we became the 
first “HeForShe” corporate partner in Asia-Pacific with 
UN Women for gender equality. We also conducted 
the “We Care for Others” program for community 
development in the Samutprakarn province, where our employees helped educate schoolgirls in the community about gender equality. The program  gives school girls the knowledge to become more confident in speaking up for gender equality. Making an Impact — Economic 
Advancement for Women
Creating Opportunities for  
Female Engineers in Europe
P&G German Technical Center (GTC) Kronberg held a series of recruiting events at The University of Cambridge and Imperial College in London, targeting technical engineers with the aim of identifying female candidates who aspire to pursue R&D careers in historically male-dominated technical roles. With innovation challenges and Women in Engineering dinners, we connected with nearly 100 engineering students. As a result of the events, six female  
engineers were offered internships/PhD seminars  
at GTC Kronberg. The “We Care for Others”  
program gives school girls  
the knowledge to become  
more confident in speaking 
up for gender equality.
113A New Playbook for Workplace Equality
We are exposing and challenging the myths 
about women at work and advocating 
for a new playbook that more broadly 
addresses the systems, policies, processes 
and bias that hold women back — both 
in the workplace and the world. At our 
#WeSeeEqual forums around the world,  
we convened notable advocates for gender 
equality, industry partners, government 
representatives and our own engaged 
employees, inspiring all to continue to 
advocate for change within the workplace and in their communities.U.S.
As part of our long-standing commitment to gender 
equality, we hosted our second annual #WeSeeEqual 
Forum on March 5, 2019 at our Cincinnati Headquarters. 
In honor of International Women’s Day, a powerful 
lineup of truth tellers from sports, comedy, music 
and more had engaging conversations about gender 
and intersectional equality. Guest speakers, including 
Abby Wambach, Hannah and Jake Graf, Luvvie Ajayi, 
Maysoon Zahid, MILCK, Sabrina Jalees and Wade Davis 
spoke on panels with Company leaders. During the 
forum, we also discussed a new playbook required to accelerate the progress on gender equality inside 
companies, suggesting that the focus needs to move 
away from “fixing the women” to fixing the systems, 
policies and cultures that perpetuate bias and the 
global gender gap. Changing the Culture
At our #WeSeeEqual  
forums, we encouraged 
all to continue to  
advocate for change.
114India
In partnership with UN Women, we organized  P&G IMEA’s (India, Middle East and Africa) first  
Gender Equality Summit, #WeSeeEqual. The conference brought Company leaders and external influencers together to surface insights around the myths that prevent us from accelerating our progress toward gender equality. The summit highlighted  topics that are part of our daily lives, including gender myths in the workplace, sharing the load at home and how girls can be unstoppable. The personal stories of our speakers enabled many to understand the importance of breaking stereotypes and overcoming unconscious biases, and inspired all to play an active role in bringing about a change. We also announced our commitment to: 
• S pend $100 million working with women-owned
businesses in IMEA.
• E ducate more than 23 million adolescent girls
on puberty and hygiene across IMEA.
• U se our voice in advertising and media forums,
such as the #WeSeeEqual Summit and other
multi-stakeholder efforts, to spark conversation
and motivate change.Singapore
P&G Asia Pacific  successfully celebrated its second 
#WeSeeEqual Summit. The summit is the flagship 
event of the Company’s holistic gender equality 
program which has delivered strong improvements in 
female representation across all levels in the Company. 
The program is grounded in a multi-pronged approach, 
including a plan  to drive 50/50  representation at 
every level in  P&G. It also i ncludes a year-l ong  program 
focused on adv ocacy for gender e quality and women’s 
empowerment bey ond our Compan y’s walls. 
We are making pro gress, with 47% representatio n of 
women globally at the manager  level and more tha n 
40% at the leadershi p level. This year’s #WeSee Equal 
Summit also celebrated  the first grad uate of 
Singapore’s Women’s Entrepr eneurs Developme nt 
program which we lead in part nership with WEConnect 
International. Changing the Culture
Today, 47% of our 
workforce is women, 
on our way to 50/50.
115We LEAD the Way for Gender Equality 
As a foundation partner and longstanding supporter 
of the Leading Executives Advancing Diversity (LEAD) 
Network, we are committed to increasing the role 
and participation of women within the economic 
value chain and actively promoting gender equality. 
With this in mind, we’ve joined forces with other 
corporations to actively attract, retain and advance 
women in the European retail and consumer goods 
industry. It is a platform for exchanging ideas, best 
practice and inspiration to help others find solutions 
to challenges they might be facing. We are driving 
our partnership with the LEAD Network through 
local chapters in Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, 
Switzerland, Turkey and the UK. After the official 
launch of LEAD in Switzerland last year, the first 
LEAD Mentoring Program was held in Zurich where 
mentors and mentees were brought together to form 
mentoring pairs that will provide them with the  
mutual support and trust they need to drive success. Dammam Gender Equality Journey
To advance gender equality in our Dammam plant, 
we initiated a plan to increase female representation, 
retain more female workers and create a more inclusive 
culture. This involved broadening our female talent 
pipeline by reaching out to women in other areas 
of the Company, leveraging external agencies, and 
inviting college students for site visits. We hit our 
female retention target by conducting individual needs 
assessments, providing monthly connect opportunities 
with plant managers and key site leadership team 
members, and redesigning our facilities to meet female 
employee needs. We also offered Men Advocating Real 
Change (MARC) trainings and mentorship programs 
focused on diversity and inclusion. Changing the Culture
We are committed  
to increasing the role  
and participation of women  
within the economic  
value chain and actively  
promoting gender equality.
116Changing the Culture
Opening a Daycare Center at Our 
Jakarta Manufacturing Plant 
Our plant in Jakarta had a small female representation, 
with high female employee attrition largely due 
to a lack of after-childbirth support. Through open 
discussions and joint efforts to solve this issue, our P&G 
Jakarta Plant pioneered a baby daycare facility and had 
onsite childcare in a manufacturing site. The Jakarta 
plant female technician leaders increased significantly 
as did the number of women floor operators. Most 
noticeable, the attrition rate has dropped. The site has 
been recognized as the Best Workplace for Women in 
the region by the local government and aims to retain 
all working mothers post-maternity leaves in the future. P&G Korea Partners with Gender 
Equality Ministry
P&G Korea became the first multinational company 
to partner with the Ministry of Gender Equality and 
Family (MOGEF) for “Gender-equal and Inclusive 
Growth” in recognition of the continuous efforts to 
promote gender equality in corporate culture. The 
underrepresentation of women is said to be a serious 
problem in Korea. The female ratio of executive levels 
in the private sector is only 2.3%, falling far behind 
that of the Organization for Economic Cooperation 
and Development (OECD) average of 23%, ranking the 
lowest for seven consecutive years. Amid this reality, 
P&G Korea stands out with female representation 
in executive and managerial levels reaching 46% 
and 57% respectively. Minister Sun-mi Jin visited the 
Seoul office to sign the agreement and learn how 
the Company has incorporated gender equality 
into the business strategy. “I am deeply impressed, 
and strongly believe that if P&G Korea can share 
the experience in ways that local companies can 
understand, it will bring a positive change to Korean 
society,” she said. With this agreement, P&G Korea 
promised to maintain a 50% female ratio at all levels 
and continue to foster inclusive work environments 
through strengthening Flex@Work, parental leave 
programs and need-based policies. In order to drive a larger impact on gender equality in Korean society, 
P&G Korea will actively seek opportunities to inspire 
other organizations by sharing experiences and 
knowledge at external events in collaboration with 
MOGEF. This partnership is a strong starting point, and 
we aspire to get closer to a world where #WeSeeEqual. 
117#ShareTheCare Helps Workplace 
Equality Begin at Home
We embrace the new expectation that parenting and 
caring for the home is for all genders. Our new parental 
leave policy in Europe, #ShareTheCare, enables fathers 
to take an average of eight weeks of paid leave within 
the first 18 weeks of their child being born or adopted. 
More than a policy change, it is a step toward shifting 
cultural norms by making child caregiving gender 
unbiased. “We are passionate about changing outdated 
perceptions around parental roles and want to shift 
from the stereotype that the women should be the  
sole full-time caregiver in the early stages of a child’s 
life. Rather than fathers ‘daring to ask’ to take leave, 
they are highly-encouraged to prioritize time with  
their child so that the whole family can enjoy the 
associated benefits,” said Giorgio Siracusa, Vice 
President, HR Europe.
A Force for Inspiring Voices  
in Latin America
In collaboration with Vital Voices Global Partnership,  
an international NGO focused on the development  
and training of women leaders, we launched a 
fellowship in Latin America. The program aims to 
empower young women by unleashing their full 
leadership potential to transform and accelerate  
peace and prosperity in their communities. Along with Vital Voices, we are transforming what 
people see as leadership in the region, creating 
sustainable change and breaking gender bias barriers 
to education and economic opportunities. The group 
of 16 participants came from Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, 
Panama and Guatemala and excelled with their diverse 
and high-quality projects from human rights and 
gender equality projects to fighting deforestation.  
The program celebrated its first milestone with a face-
to-face meeting in Buenos Aires to get the participants 
together in order to discuss their projects and provide 
leadership, communication and fundraising training. Following the in-person gathering, all participants will 
be eligible to apply for grants to support their social 
impact projects. The program will grant mentoring 
support by leveraging the Vital Voices mentor network 
as well as our executive professionals. We are proud 
to be part of their journey and to help these inspiring 
voices in Latin America build their tribe.
Changing the Culture
118Achieving a world free from gender bias is not work that 
any one individual, NGO, government or company —   
no matter how committed — can tackle alone. In all of 
our Gender Equality focus areas — leveraging our voice 
in advertising, removing barriers to education for girls 
and economic opportunity for women and achieving 
50/50 representation within our Company — we partner 
with highly-engaged and effective organizations that 
share our commitment. 
We are inspired and proud to work with our partners 
to combine our resources, talents and skills to have a 
broader and bigger impact.
Gender Equality Partners
119Awards and Recognition
Best Company for Female Executives
NAFE Top Companies for Executive Women
Working Mother 100 Best Companies for Working 
Mothers — Top 100
Working Mother Best Companies for Multicultural 
Women — Top 10
Bloomberg Gender Equality Index 2019
AmCham Singapore HERo Awards 2019 —   
Outstanding Achievement on Gender Equality. 
Category: Best Enterprise (MNC)AmCham Singapore HERo Awards 2019 — Individual 
Award ‘Male Champion of the Year’ awarded to 
Magesvaran Suranjan, President, P&G Asia Pacific, 
Middle East & Africa
JUMP organization Wo.Men@Work Award for being 
the next “CEO Ambassadors for Gender Equality at 
Work 2019”
Forbes Japan Women Award 2018
Fortune Most Powerful Women (International) —   
Alex Keith #36, Fama Francisco #37
Women Inc. Most Influential Corporate Directors —  
Mary Lynn Ferguson-McHugh and Carolyn Tastad
120Environmental Sustainability
121At P&G, environmental sustainability is embedded in how we do 
business. We have a responsibility to make the world better — through 
the products we create and the positive impact our brands and 
Company can have in communities worldwide. We’ve established 
ambitious goals to minimize our environmental footprint, to innovate 
with the best and safest ingredients from both science and nature, 
and to create products that make responsible consumption irresistible 
for people everywhere.
122HIGHLIGHT
Ambition 2030
2019 marks the one-year anniversary of the 
announcement of our Ambition 2030 sustainability 
goals. These goals leverage our scale to enable and 
inspire positive impact on the environment and the 
five billion people our brands touch each day around 
the world. With these goals, we are focused on where 
we can make biggest positive difference — our brands, 
our supply chain, society and our employees. 
People know us through our brands, and we will use 
the power of our innovation and our brands to delight 
consumers and drive positive impact. In our supply 
chain, we will reduce our footprint and strive for circular 
solutions. We can impact society by creating powerful 
partnerships that enable people, the planet and our 
business to thrive. This includes finding solutions so 
that none of our packaging finds its way to the ocean. 
And finally, we will tap into our greatest resource, our 
employees, so that they are engaged and equipped 
to build sustainability into their daily work and 
communities.
123HIGHLIGHT
Brands Take On Responsible 
Consumption
Our leadership brands are working on innovative 
programs to create products, solutions and services 
that make sustainable lifestyles seamless, while 
continuing to offer the value and superior performance 
consumers expect from our brands.
The Brand 2030 framework is our next step toward 
meeting our Ambition 2030 goal of “100% of our 
leadership brands will enable and inspire responsible 
consumption.” Our new Brand 2030 criteria are 
embedded in the Company’s brand growth model and 
aimed at driving positive impact while creating value 
for consumers and our Company.
Ariel
Ariel Europe is striving to make all its packaging 
recyclable by 2022 and to reduce plastic packaging 
by 30% by 2025. The first step was to convert their 
SUD tubs to light-weight bags, starting in the UK as of 
July 2019, saving 75% plastic. Additionally, the brand 
announced in September 2019 to increase its PCR in 
Ariel bottles from 25% to 50% across Europe starting in 
the first quarter of 2020.
Pampers 
Pampers keeps innovating toward more sustainable 
diapering solutions in an effort to use 30% less1 
diapering materials per baby over their diapering 
time. Using innovation and more effective materials, 
the brand has already reduced the average weight 
of its diapers by 18%2 in the past three years, with the 
same trusted dryness. Additionally, Pampers is leading 
cutting-edge recycling efforts for all brands of diapers 
and wipes, not just Pampers, with a commitment to 
launch recycling operations in three cities by 2021.3
1 Vs. a typical disposable diaper
2  Comparison of Pampers diapers sold in Western Europe 2019 vs. 2016 
3  The recycling technology was invented by Fater, a JV of P&G and Angelini 
(which makes Pampers in Italy).
124HIGHLIGHT
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle
Our goal is to have 100% recyclable or reusable 
packaging by 2030. In April 2019, we elevated that 
commitment to reduce global use of virgin petroleum 
plastic in our packaging by 50% by 2030.
This is an ambitious goal we will achieve via light 
weighting, increasing our use of recycled plastic, 
driving conversion to more concentrated product 
forms, and when it makes sense, using alternative 
materials. We estimate this will avoid the use of more 
than 300,000 tons of virgin plastic.
100% 
of our packaging  
will be recyclable  
or reusable by 2030. 
125HIGHLIGHT
Testing Reusable Packaging
Loop, a partnership with TerraCycle, is a global circular 
shopping platform designed to eliminate waste. Using 
the age-old “milkman” concept, participants purchase 
a variety of household products — including Tide, Ariel, 
Cascade, Febreze and Pantene — in durable, refillable 
packaging conveniently delivered straight to their 
doorstep. Once empty, Loop collects and cleans the 
packaging to be put back into circulation for reuse.
P&G was the first consumer 
products company to partner 
with international recycling leader 
TerraCycle in the Loop program.
126HIGHLIGHT
Joining Forces to End  
Plastic Waste
In 2019, we joined forces with more than 40 companies 
that make plastic, use plastic in their products and 
packaging, and those who recycle and manage plastic 
waste to form The Alliance to End Plastic Waste. 
P&G CEO David Taylor took the lead to serve as the 
first Chairman of the new Alliance, a not-for-profit 
organization that plans to invest $1.5 billion  
over the next five years to help end plastic waste in  
the environment.
Research shows that nearly 80% of the plastic in 
oceans begins as litter on land, the vast majority of 
which travels to the sea down one of ten major rivers 
around the world. Many of these rivers run through 
densely populated areas that lack suitable waste 
collection and recycling infrastructure. The Alliance is 
supporting an array of projects and partnerships that 
focus on solutions in four core areas: infrastructure, 
innovation, education and cleanup, with particular 
emphasis where the need is most urgent in  
Southeast Asia.
The Alliance is the foremost CEO-driven 
international organization focused on bringing 
together industry, government, communities 
and civil society in the fight to end plastic waste.
127HIGHLIGHT
Protecting Water for People  
and Nature
Pressure on water resources is increasing in many 
regions across the globe. Urban populations are 
growing, demand is outpacing the water supply, and 
water quality is a recurring issue. We recognize this 
is a complex issue that requires collaboration across 
private, public and civil society to solve. 
The 50 Liter Home Concept, spearheaded by P&G, 
brings together companies, policy makers, influencers 
and communities to develop and scale innovations 
for the home that help solve the urban water crisis 
and, at the same time, address household energy 
consumption and associated GHG emissions.
Major cities around the 
world face the prospect 
of a water crisis.
128HIGHLIGHT
Impacting Climate Change
P&G achieved a significant 2020 sustainability goal 
ahead of schedule. We are proud to share that we 
are purchasing 100% renewable electricity in the U.S., 
Canada and Western Europe. These three markets are 
among our largest and represent more than 70% of our 
purchased electricity, signifying a strong start to P&G’s 
Ambition 2030 goal of purchasing 100% renewable 
electricity globally by 2030.
We are now  
purchasing
100%
renewable electricity in the U.S.,  
Canada and Western Europe.
129Environmental Sustainability
Message from Virginie Helias 
2020 Environmental Goals Progress 
Environmental Progress versus  
2010 Baseline 
BRANDS  
Brand 2030 
Ambitious Packaging Goals 
New Packaging that  
Changes the Game 
Reclaiming Plastic and  
Giving it a New Life 
Loop Tests Refillable,  
Reusable Packaging  
Closing in on Our  
2020 Packaging Goals 
Responsible Consumption  
for Energy Savings Water-Efficient Products  
Trust and Transparency at the Core 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Supply Chain  
Climate  
Responsible Forestry  
Palm Oil  
Water  
Waste  
SOCIETY  
Creating Circular Economies 
Keeping Plastic Waste out  
of the Environment  
Responsible Consumption  Protecting Water for People  
and Nature   
Reinventing Water for Urban Living 
EMPLOYEES  
Employees  
Tracking Our Progress  
Awards and Recognitions  
Environmental Resource  
and Waste Summary  
Global Measurement and  
Additional Operational Data  
130“At P&G, sustainability is embedded in how we do business —  
 and has been for a very long time. In fact, 2019 marks the  
20th anniversary of our environmental sustainability report. 
While the report’s name and design has changed over the 
years, one element has always remained the same — our 
commitment to make the world better through the products 
we create and the positive impact our brands can have in 
communities worldwide.
2019 also marks the one-year anniversary of our Ambition 2030 
sustainability goals announcement. When we designed these 
bold commitments, our intent was to leverage our scale to 
enable and inspire positive impact on the environment and 
the five billion people our brands touch each day around the 
world. Although there is much to do, I’m proud to say we are 
already making great progress.
We are progressing with the development of innovations 
and products that make responsible consumption a reality 
for people everywhere. We are reducing our footprint and 
striving for circular solutions. We’re actively engaging industry, 
governments, civil society groups and academics to forge  
new paths and create breakthrough solutions that drive  
the greater good. Our employees are staying focused and 
building sustainability into their work each and every day 
to have a positive impact on the environment and the 
communities we serve. 
All of this work together will have a tremendous impact to 
advance solutions against some of the world’s most complex 
and challenging issues. I believe that we can truly be a force 
for good and a force for growth. I am inspired by our ongoing 
efforts and optimistic for a bright future.”
Message from  
Virginie Helias
Chief Sustainability Officer
1312020 Environmental Goals Progress
CLIMATEReduce truck transportation kilometers by 20% per unit 
of production
Achieved — reduced kilometers  
by more than 25%Reduce energy use at P&G facilities by 20%  
per unit of production by 2020
Achieved — 21% reduction per unit of 
production
Achieved — 100% third-party certifiedHave 100% of the virgin wood fibers used in our tissue/
towel and absorbent hygiene products be third-party 
certified by 2015
We have developed the ability to substitute 
our top petroleum-derived raw materials 
(resins, cleaning agents and acrylates) with 
renewable materialsCreate technologies by 2020 to substitute top 
petroleum-derived raw materials with renewable 
materials as cost and scale permitWe continue to advance progress in our three-pillar 
strategy: supplier management, smallholder program 
and industry influenceImplement palm oil commitments
Achieved — 70% of loads are low-energyEnsure 70% of machine loads are low-energy cyclesReduce absolute GHG emissions by 30% by 2020
We have reduced absolute  
GHG emissions by 25%13% of energy is from renewable sourcesEnsure plants are powered by 30% renewable energy
Note: New renewable electric purchases  
beginning July 2019 will be included in next 
year’s report, helping exceed this goal.As we approach 2020, we have made significant progress against the goals we set in 2010 around climate, water 
and waste. As we are well on our way to achieving these goals and closing out 2020, we are raising the bar with 
even bolder commitments called Ambition 2030. 
1322020 Environmental Goals Progress
WATER
WASTEAchieved — 27% reduction per unit  
of productionAchieved — 1 billion people with access to 
water-efficient productsProvide 1 billion people with access  
to water-efficient productsReduce water use in manufacturing facilities by 20% per 
unit of production with conservation focused on water-
stressed regions
Ensure 90% of product packaging is either  
recyclable or programs are in place to create the ability 
to recycle it
We have achieved 88% and have strong, 
ongoing effort to further increase recyclabilityConduct pilot studies in both the developed and 
developing world to understand how to eliminate 
landfilled/dumped solid waste 
We continue to make progress  
implementing a variety of pilot projects with 
external partnersReduce packaging by 20% per consumer use
We have reduced packaging  
by approximately 14% per consumer useDouble use of recycled resin in plastic packaging
We used approximately 45,100 metric  
tons of post consumer resin (PCR) in our 
plastic packaging, getting us 73% of the  
way to our goal100% zero manufacturing waste to landfill by 2020
92% of our manufacturing sites are ZMWTLHave 100% of our paper packaging contain either 
recycled or third-party-certified virgin content by 2020
99% of the volume reported  
by our suppliers was either recycled or third-
party-certified virgin content
133Environmental Progress  
versus 2010 Baseline
With our operations, we strive to grow responsibly, constantly improving our efficiency 
while reducing our global footprint. Global production has increased since 2010,however we 
have successfully decoupled that growth from our environmental footprint, achieving both 
absolute and production-adjusted reductions in waste, water, energy and GHG emissions.
25%  absolute reduction 
of green house gas 
emissions21% reduction per  
unit of production  92% of our  
production sites are 
zero manufacturing 
waste to landfill27%  reduction per unit  
of production13% of energy is from  
renewable sources25% 21% 92% 27% 13%GHG Energy Waste Water Renewable  
Energy
134Brands
Use the power of innovation and our brands to  
delight consumers and drive positive impact.
•   100% of our leadership brands will enable and inspire  
responsible consumption.
•  100% of our packaging will be recyclable or reusable. 
•   We will reduce global use of virgin petroleum plastic in our  
packaging by 50%
•   We will build even greater trust through transparency,  
ingredient innovation and sharing our safety science.
135136
Brands Enable Responsible 
Consumption
Most consumers are not willing to compromise 
performance for sustainable lifestyles and expect 
brands to take action in solving some of the most 
complex challenges facing the world. In fact, 9 out  
of 10 consumers feel better about purchasing a brand 
that supports a social or environmental cause and 
more than half of those consumers expect it. P&G  
and its brands have the opportunity to not only  
create products that offer superior performance, but 
promote conversations, influence attitudes, change 
behaviors and drive positive impact on society and  
the environment.
Brand 2030 is the Company’s next step toward 
meeting its Ambition 2030 goal of “100 percent of our 
leadership brands will enable and inspire responsible 
consumption.” Our new Brand 2030 criteria are 
embedded in the Company’s brand growth model and 
aimed at driving positive impact while creating value 
for consumers and our Company. 
To do that, we have asked each brand to implement 
four Brand Fundamentals  and one brand-
specific Ambition , ensuring a thorough long-term 
integration of meaningful and measurable social and 
environmental impacts brand strategy and experience 
versus only an initiative. 
In FY18/19, we trained all leadership brands on the 
requirements and in FY19/20, we will finalize our 
tracking and reporting process. As our journey will take 
us through 2030, our intent is to regularly review these 
criteria and update them as science, stakeholder views, 
and our own experience evolves.“Consumers today expect brands 
to take meaningful action in 
solving some of the most complex 
challenges facing the world. This is 
why P&G is focused on reinventing 
brands to be a force for good and 
a force for growth. We want our 
brands to be growing and creating 
value while having a measurable, 
long-term, positive impact on society 
and the environment.”
MARC PRITCHARD,  
Chief Brand OfficerINTRODUCTION  ETHICS & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  COMMUNITY IMPACT  DIVERSITY & INCLUSION  GENDER EQUALITY  ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Brand 2030BRANDS
The Brand 2030 framework  
is our next step toward  
meeting our Ambition 2030 goal  
of “100 percent of our leadership 
brands will enable and inspire 
responsible consumption.”
1361) Product and Packaging Innovation
Brands will need to innovate to enable 
responsible consumption:
• A meaningful impact in the brand’s key
environmental impact area (e.g. water,
raw materials)
• 100% of packaging will be recyclable
or reusable
• A meaningful increase in responsibly
sourced bio-based or recycled or moreresource-efficient materials• Ariel Europe is striving to make all its packaging
recyclable by 2022 and to reduce plastic packaging
by 30% by 2025. The first step was to convert theirsingle-use dosage (SUD) tubs to lightweight bags.This started in the UK and as of July 2019, has saved75% of plastic. Additionally, the brand announcedin September 2019 plans to increase its PCR in Arielbottles from 25% to 50% across Europe starting in thefirst quarter of 2020.
•
 Pampers keeps innovating toward more sustainable
diapering solutions in an effort to use 30% less1
diapering materials per baby over their diaperingtime. Using innovation and more effective materials,the brand has already reduced the average weightof its diapers by 18%
2 in the past three years, with
the same trusted dryness. Additionally, Pampers isleading cutting-edge recycling efforts for all brandsof diapers and wipes, not just Pampers, with acommitment to launch recycling operations in threecities by 2021.
3
• Brands like Tide, Ariel, Cascade, Febreze and
Pantene are participating in Loop, a global circularshopping platform designed to eliminate waste bytransforming the products and packaging of everydayitems from single-use to durable, multi-use, feature-packed designs.2) Brand Communication
Brands leverage their voice in communication 
and advertising production to promote social and environmental sustainability
• Ariel is using its voice to help shape a future of
equals through campaigns like “Partage des Taches”in France and “Share the Load” in India, whichsupport the idea of men and women equally sharinghousekeeping tasks. In addition, it is promoting towashing in low temperatures in its recent WWF EarthHour pledge in the UK.
• In partnership with UNICEF, Pampers has
helped eliminate maternal and neonatal
tetanus in 24 countries. In March 2019, one more
country — Chad — now eliminated this disease. These
efforts have resulted in an estimated 880,000
newborn lives4 saved since 2006.
• Several of our leadership brands are using their voice
to raise awareness for the beach plastic challenge.
Fairy and H&S have produced many bottles made of
beach  plastic.Brand 2030 — The Fundamentals
1 Versus a typical disposable diaper 
2  Comparison of Pampers diapers sold in Western Europe 2019 versus 2016
3  The recycling technology was invented by Fater, a JV of P&G and Angelini 
(which makes Pampers in Italy).
4 Based on WHO and UNICEF estimated figures as of Feb 2019BRANDS
1373) Transparency
Brands are transparent about ingredients 
and share the their safety science.
• Herbal Essences is leading the way in sharing
comprehensive information about its ingredients,transparently explaining their four-step safety processand being recognized by PETA as a cruelty-free brand.Herbal Essences bio:renew is the first global hair carebrand to have its botanicals endorsed by the RoyalBotanic Gardens at Kew, a world-leading authority
on plants.
To learn more about our product safety standards, see:4) Supply Chain Impacts
Brands reduce supply chain impacts, 
including responsible sourcing of priority materials. Manufacturing sites are on  track to meet the Company’s Ambition  2030 goals.
• As of 2019, SK-II is produced with 100% purchased
renewable electricity, dramatically reducingmanufacturing CO2 emissions. SK-II also recirculatesmore than 20% of the Pitera wash water back into
the process by treating it to drinking water quality.
In addition, the latest production facilities for SK-IIwere LEED Silver certified under the new LEED v4standard, the first manufacturing site in Japan toachieve this honor.
• Bounty and Charmin are committed to responsiblesourcing, ensuring 100% of the virgin wood pulpwe purchase is third-party certified by one of ouraccepted forest certification systems. In addition,the our manufacturing sites for these brandshave reduced their energy use by 25% and waterconsumption by 29% since our 2010 baseline,
helping reduce not only our footprint but that
of our consumers as well.Brand 2030 — The FundamentalsBRANDS
Herbal Essences bio:renew 
is the first global hair care 
brand to have its botanicals 
endorsed by the Royal 
Botanic Gardens at Kew,  
a world-leading authority  
on plants.
138There are many pilot projects underway to develop and test new products and new 
packaging solutions that will accelerate our progress and bring us closer to our global goal 
of reducing plastic waste. 
Tide Eco-Box 
Tide introduced this e-commerce solution in 2018 to 
reduce weight and the amount of plastic used in the package. Its re-engineered formula gives consumers more cleaning per drop than Tide Original liquid detergent in a shipping-safe package made with  60% less plastic.
Olay Refillable Pod
Olay is the first mass retail skincare brand in the U.S. to test refillable packaging, offering its best selling Olay Regenerist Whip moisturizer with a recyclable refill pod that fits right in the jar. The online test kicked off in North 
America in October 2019. Olay Strip It
To reduce plastic, four young engineers in our Bangkok Plant came up with #OlayStripIt, carton perforations framing the Olay logo that would clearly show if anyone had tried to open the package prior to sale.  It’s estimated this simple innovation will eliminate 8,000kg of plastic.New Packaging that 
Changes the Game
BRANDS
140141 INTRODUCTION  ET HICS & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  COMMUNITY IMPACT  DIVERSITY & INCLUSION  GE NDER EQUALITY  EN VIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Each year, upwards of eight million tons 
of plastic waste end up in rivers, lakes and oceans. For several years, we have has teamed up with an innovative waste management company, TerraCycle, to create recyclable shampoo, conditioner and dish washing bottles made of plastic removed from beaches and waterways. Organizing beach cleanups and partnering with retailers around the world to feature the bottles helps bring awareness to the issue of plastic waste and encourages people to reduce, reuse  and recycle. 
Giving Packages and Products a New Life
• In the U.S. in February 2019, Gillette and TerraCycle
announced for the first time in the U.S. that all brands
of disposable razors, replaceable-blade cartridgeunits and razor plastic packaging are recyclable on anational scale. Through the partnership, consumersare invited to recycle their razors in three ways: theat-home recycling program, local recycling drop-offsand the Gillette On Demand recycling program.
• In April 2019, P&G Korea, led by Febreze and Oral-B,
officially launched the “Plastic-Free Campaign” withlocal retailer Emart and TerraCycle. We worked withthem to install plastic collection boxes at Emartstores, collecting plastic to upcycle into meaningfulproducts such as traffic safety reflectors for children.• In the UK, Head & Shoulders and ASDA created in-
store awareness of the Head & Shoulders shampoo
bottles that now contain up to 25% post-consumer
recyclate plastic. Because milk bottles are a high-
selling products, Head & Shoulders launched its
bestselling formula with new artwork
 with the simple
message—“part of me was a recycled milk bottle” to
communicate the real difference
 shoppers and
brands can make by taking action
on recycling.
• In partnership with the Tokyo 2020 Organizing
Committee and the International Olympic Committee
(IOC), we kicked off the Podium Project
 in June 2019.
The Olympic Games winners’ podiums
 will be created
from recycled materials — and
 consumers can directly
contribute. Retail partner
 AEON WELCIA Group will
encourage shoppers to
 bring their used plastic back
to the store in collection
 bins. The goal is to collect 1.5
million pieces of
 plastic packaging consisting of
polyethylene and
 polypropylene from Japanese
consumers to
 produce recycled plastic resin.
• We will unveil the podiums at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic
Games. After the games conclude, we plan
 to recycle
the podiums once again to create new
 packaging and
educational materials to explain and
 promote the
Olympic and Paralympic movements and the overall
importance of sustainability.Reclaiming Plastic and 
Giving It a New LifeBRANDS
MAKE
RECYCLECOLLECT RECLAIM
141Bottles Made from D iscarded  Plastic
Fairy Beach Bottle  
Fairy debuted a Beach Bottle across Europe producing 
more than two million beach bottles made with 100% 
recycled plastic — 10% of it collected from b eaches.
Head & Shoulders Surpasses One Million  
Beach Bottles  
Since its introduction in 2017, Head & Shoulders has 
produced more than 1 million bottles made with 
recycled beach plastic in more than 10 countries in 
Europe and Latin America.
Japan’s Joy Introduces Beach  Plastic Bottle  
P&G Japan’s iconic dish care brand, Joy, introduced 
a limited edition hand dish wash detergent bottle 
made with 25% beach plastic sourced, recycled and 
manufactured entirely in Japan. 
 Herbal Essences  
To celebrate World Water Day in March, Herbal 
Essences teamed up with TerraCycle to launch three 
limited-edition collections in their bio:renew lineup: 
Sea the Change, Love the Shore and Waves of Change. 
The recyclable shampoo and conditioner bottles were 
made of 25% beach plastic and available at select 
Target stores through June 2019.    Beach Clean-Ups 
• In the UK, we joined with Tesco and Keep Britain Tidy
to rally UK shoppers to help clean up beaches acrossthe country after the summer season. “The Big BeachClean” invited shoppers to take action and nominatetheir favorite beaches to be one of 10 clean upsacross the country. Alongside this, in support of thecampaign, a combined team of employees from P&Gand Tesco went to the UK countryside to clean updiscarded plastic. With one team combing the beachat Landguard Point and one riverside at the RiverColne, the teams collected dozens of bags of litter.
• In Spain, we partnered with CARREFOUR and PaisajeLimpio to clean local beaches and organized aroundtable discussion with reps from the Company,CARREFOUR and Influencer Calleja to discuss thejourney behind this effort and the importance ofdriving responsible consumption.Reclaiming Plastic and 
Giving It New Life
Volunteers  
help clean local 
beaches in Spain.BRANDS
142143 INTRODUCTION  ET HICS & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  COMMUNITY IMPACT  DIVERSITY & INCLUSION  GE NDER EQUALITY  EN VIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
“Loop aims to not just eliminate the 
idea of packaging waste but greatly 
improve the product experience and 
the convenience i n how w e shop.” 
TOM  SZAKY  
CEO, T erraCycle
Residents in New York and Paris can now get their 
favorite home and personal care products in durable, 
refillable and reusable containers collected and 
returned to their doorstep. Announced in January 2019,  
we were one of the first consumer products 
companies to partner with international recycling 
leader TerraCycle in the Loop program. Some of our 
brands participating in the Loop test markets in Paris 
and New York include Tide, Ariel, Cascade, Crest, 
Pantene, Herbal Essences, Pampers, Always, Oral-B, 
Gillette, Venus and Febreze.Through Loop, consumers order household products 
online such as Tide and Febreze, foods like Haagen-
Dazs and Tropicana juice, or beauty icons Pantene  
and Herbal Essences, all of which arrive in new, durable, 
refillable containers in a reusable shipping tote 
that eliminates the need for cardboard boxes. Once 
consumers are done with their products, they simply 
put the empty containers back into the tote and use 
a dedicated website to request a pick up directly from 
their home. The durable containers are then cleaned, 
refilled and reused.
“Loop gives us the opportunity to 
test and learn what a refill and 
return business model must deliver 
in order to make it a truly scalable, 
sustainable proposition. We are also 
using this test to see how ‘collect 
and recycle’ operations for used 
razor blades, diapers and toothbrush 
heads can be optimized.” 
VIRGINIE HELIAS   
Chief Sustainability OfficerLoop Tests Refillable, 
Reusable PackagingBRANDS
143Doubling Our Use of PCR
Our goal was to double the use of PCR versus our 
baseline level of 26,000 metric tons. This year, we 
used approximately 45,100 metric tons of PCR in our 
plastic packaging, which represents an increase of 
approximately 73% versus baseline and puts us on 
track to hit our goal.
Ensure That 90% of Our Product 
Packaging is Recyclable or That 
Programs are in Place to Create the 
Ability to Recycle Them 
For purposes of tracking progress against our goal, 
a package is considered recyclable when there is 
an in-market, at scale recycling system in place for 
that material type. This includes collection, sortation, 
processing for end use and an established end 
market for collected material. Using this definition, 
approximately 88% of our packaging would be 
considered recyclable today. This relatively high value 
reflects the fact that the vast majority of our current 
packaging is made from materials and forms that are 
readily recyclable (e.g., corrugated boxes, cartons, high-
density polyethylene [HDPE] bottles and polyethylene 
terephthalate [PET] bottles). 
Difficult-to-recycle materials including films, resins 
not readily collected by curbside programs and 
mixed material packaging continue to be our biggest 
opportunity. We partner with other organizations in 
the recycling value chain to find solutions for these materials. One example is our leadership in the Material 
Recovery for the Future (MRFF) initiative to recover 
and recycle films via curbside collection. MRFF is being 
demonstrated at scale in the J.P. Mascaro & Sons Total 
Recycle material recovery facility in Pennsylvania. With 
this program in place, we will exceed our goal of 90% of 
our packaging being recyclable.
As we have now declared our Ambition 2030 goal of 
getting to 100% recyclable or reusable packaging, 
this will be the last year we report separate progress 
against our 90% target. Going forward, we will simply 
report against our 2030 objective of 100% recyclable 
or reusable packaging. As the scope of our 2030 goal 
is different than the scope of our current 2020 goal, 
results reported next year may differ from current 
results. The largest factor will be that our 2030 goal 
focuses on consumer packaging, as this is what 
we believe is most meaningful to drive the change 
necessary in our industry. Packaging that ships to our 
customers, which is primarily corrugated boxes that 
are readily recyclable and recycled, will no longer be in 
scope of our tracking such that we expect our reported 
recyclable or reusable values to be lower next year.Closing in on Our 2020 
Packaging GoalsBRANDS
Our use of PCR has 
increased 73% versus 
our 2010 baseline.
144Reduce Packaging  by 20% per 
Consumer  Use  by 2020
Our goal is to reduce packaging by 20% per consumer  
use by  2020 versus our 2010 baseline. In FY18/19, we 
achieved a 14% reduction per consumer use, which 
is off our glide path for our 2020 goal. We continue to 
experience market-driven headwinds that are  impeding 
progress against our goal. In some key markets,  
customer requests for smaller case counts increased 
the amount of corrugate usage per consumer use of 
product. We also shifted some products to smaller sizes  
to better meet consumer needs, which increased  the 
amount of packaging per consumer use. 
However, through our ongoing focus on packaging  
effic iency and several packaging design breakthroughs, 
we were able to offset these headwinds and deliver a  
14 % reduction versus our 2010 baseline. While we   
will continue our efforts, we do not expect to make 
much further progress in the next year a nd do not 
anticipate hitting this goal in 2020.  We also recog nize 
that increased use of corrugate,  w hile impeding 
progress against our goal, represents  a materi al and 
packaging type that is recycled at  
very high rates, has a very high recycle c ontent a nd  
is renewable.Summary of Resin Usage in Plastic 
Packaging
In FY18/19, we used approximately 714,000 metric 
tons of plastic packaging. Of this, 45,100 metric tons were post-consumer resin. Resin types and packaging formats are summarized below.Closing in on Our 2020 
Packaging Goals
Resin Type Percent
PE 44%
PET 31%
PP 13%
Other 22%
Package Type Percent
Rigids (e.g., bottles, caps, tubs, 
thermoform, injection molded parts) 55%
Flexibles (e.g. pouches, bags, wraps, sachets)43%
Others (tubes, jars) 2%BRANDS
Our ongoing focus on 
packaging efficiency and 
several packaging design 
breakthroughs helped us 
deliver a 14% reduction 
in packaging versus our 
2010 baseline. 
145The energy used during the machine 
washing of laundry is one of the biggest 
impacts on our corporate greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions footprint and, as such, 
we have focused on innovating to enable 
consumers to get clean clothes using less 
energy. In 2010, we set a goal to turn 70% of all washing machine loads into energy-efficient cycles by 2020. We are thrilled 
to report that this year, we reached our 
goal — one year ahead of schedule. 
We define low-energy washing as 0.4 kWh or  
below per cycle. This accounts for cold water  
and low-temperature cycles as well as most high-
efficiency (HE) machine cycles. We knew we couldn’t 
achieve this alone; machines are more efficient and 
consumers are savvier than ever about their water  
and energy use. We continue to partner with top 
washing machine manufacturers globally to help 
educate consumers about the benefits of quick  
and cold-water washing cycles and have distributed 
more than six million informational packets globally  
to new machine purchasers. Ariel UK and World Wildlife  
Fund Pledge to “Turn to 30⁰”
Ariel has been at the forefront of driving consumer 
behavior change when it comes to washing at cold 
temperatures with our long-running “Turn to 30⁰” 
campaign. Ariel once again partnered with WWF UK 
to encourage people to take simple, everyday actions 
to protect the planet, one of which was “turn washing temperatures down to 30⁰.” For every pledge made 
with #VoiceForThePlanet, Ariel donated £1 to WWF  
UK. During March and April, WWF UK saw a large 
number of pledges made across the country.
Tide #QuickColdPledge
Tide has been urging people to take the 
#QuickColdPledge and turn their washing machine 
to the quick and cold cycles to lighten our impact on the environment. About 80% of a washing machine’s 
energy consumption comes from heating the water. 
By delivering a superior performance in quick and cold 
cycles, Tide helps people get the clean they need while 
saving time, money and energy. Even after reaching our sustainability goal of 70% of 
wash loads occurring in energy-efficient wash cycles, we will continue to enable energy efficiency while washing. As part of our Ariel 2030 Brand Ambition, we aim to reinvent a clean that redefines green, 
saving 50% of our resources, including the energy 
used for doing the laundry. We want to continue to 
educate and enable more energy-efficient washing cycles by lowering the average temperature of 
household washing globally. This will not only help the 
environment but also help consumers save on their energy bills and better protect their clothes, giving clothes a longer life and keeping garments out of  
the landfill.Responsible Consumption 
for Energy Savings
We aim to reinvent a clean that 
redefines green, saving 50% of our 
resources, including the energy  
used for doing the laundry.BRANDS
Ariel’s “Turn to 30⁰” in the 
UK donated £1 to WWF UK 
for each of pledges made. 
146We Provided More Than One  
Billion People with Access to 
Water-Efficient Products 
Helping consumers save water in their home has been 
a key focus of our 2020 water goals. Over the last four 
years, we’ve worked to qualify a suite of products as 
water-efficient products based on the technology they 
utilize and the habits they inspire. Thanks to the hard 
work of our researchers, formulators, sustainability 
team and brand leaders, we have achieved this 2020 
goal and provided more than one billion people with 
access to water-efficient products one year ahead of 
schedule. But our work is not finished here. Our brands 
will continue to look for opportunities to reduce in-
home water use and to educate consumers on  
the topic. 
Tide Plus in India
In many parts of the world, handwashing laundry is 
part of a household’s daily routine. A large volume 
of the household’s weekly water usage goes toward 
getting their clothes clean. The challenge is even 
bigger when water is scarce, as it is in many states of 
India. Tide Plus detergent helps Indian homes save 
more than 10% of the water in every wash (versus previous Tide Plus technology) by eliminating a rinse in the laundry washing process. Each household can 
save more than 4,000 liters per year by utilizing the 
Tide Plus technology on laundry day. Three hundred 
and seventy million people in India have access to the 
water saving potential of Tide Plus, which could help 
save water equivalent to 6 billion showers per year.*  
Pantene  Foam  Conditioners
Pantene’s suite  of foam conditioners help women 
reduce the amount of time they spend rinsing 
conditioner from  their hair. Foam conditioners rinse 
out of hair 50%  faster than normal cream conditioners. 
Each week, users  of quick rinse  foam conditioners can 
save up to four  gallons of wate r versus tradi tional cream 
conditioner, all  while getting their hair silky smooth.  
Many people have  access to foa m conditioners a cross 
China, Spain/Por tugal, U.S., Germany, UK, Rus sia and 
Eastern Europe . 
*Calculated on 35 liters average amount of water per 10 
min shower Water-Efficient ProductsBRANDS
We achieved our 2020 goal of 
providing one billion people with 
access to water-efficient products.
147Nothing is more important to us than 
ensuring our products are safe for 
consumers and the environment. Providing 
people with the information they need to make informed choices while continually 
improving our product portfolio with the 
product performance and ingredient preferences they seek remains a core focus 
for the Company. Last year, we committed to sharing more information about our 
safety science and ingredient choices. We 
looked across all our product offerings 
and innovations to develop our Ingredient 
Citizenship principles. These guide how 
we evaluate and share the ingredients we 
choose for our products. 
Throughout our history, we have stood for products 
of superior value and performance, which requires 
the best and safest ingredients available — whether 
sourced from science or nature. Innovation with 
ingredients is an ever-evolving area where we invest in 
developing new options and continually consider what 
is possible. This is evident in several of our product 
launches, which integrate new ingredients for a 
superior consumer experience. For e xample:
 Tide purclean i ntegrates  plant-based surfactants 
to achieve outstanding cleaning. Tide purclean is a 
USDA-certified bio-based detergent with four times 
the cleaning power of the leading natural detergent. 
Tide purclean continues to grow ahead of the naturals 
laundry category and recently has been ranked the 
#1 natural laundry detergent by a leading consumer 
publication.
Tampax P ure offers a 100% cotton core and a 90% 
plant-derived applicator for c omfort  and protectio n.
Pampers  Pure diapers and wipes were created with 
responsibly sourced plant-based materials (such as 
cellulose, cotton and plant-based fibers derived from 
sugar cane) and other thoughtfully selected materials 
and made with 100% purchased renewable electricity. Trust and Transparency at the Core
Relentlessly pursue the best and 
safest ingredients from both science 
and nature
Lead by sharing the what, where 
and how of our ingredients
Collaborate to solve big ingredient 
and materials challengesBRANDS
148Not only are we innovating with product ingredients 
and sourcing choices, we are also sharing more about 
those choices with greater ingredient transparency. 
Our Brand websites and PG.com offer more 
information than ever before about our ingredients, 
as well as the safety process we follow to ensure our 
products are safe to use as directed. You can see this 
come to life through a few examples here:
• The naturals category is growing at an accelerated
speed across the industry, yet it is an area with
little regulation, lots of variation and potential for
irresponsible sourcing. P&G Beauty entered a long-
term partnership with The Royal Botanic Gardens
at Kew to change how we innovate with natural
ingredients, learning from their deep expertise
in plants, their usefulness and conservation. Kew
Gardens has more than 260 years of expertise in
botanical science, 300 research scientists, and is
the most biodiverse place in the world. Our first
collaborative effort under this innovation partnershipcan be found in Herbal Essences’ bio:renew lineup
around the globe. Customers can rest easy knowing
the botanicals in Herbal Essences bio:renew have
been verified by the plant experts at Kew.• As more consumers ask for transparency about
ingredients used in beauty products, they also
ask for their products to use ingredients they trust
as safe. Herbal Essences heard this call and brought
to market two new sulfate-free shampoos formulatedto meet the Environmental Working Group’s (EWG)
VERIFIED
TM stamp of approval. This means Herbal
Essences meets the rigorous criteria and provides
additional information on the product label in an
effort to drive greater ingredient transparency
and informed choices. With this credential, Herbal
Essences is the first mass hair care brand in mass
retailer stores to meet the strict clean beauty
standards set by EWG — creators of the Skin
Deep® Healthy Living® app — making clean
beauty options both affordable and accessible.Trust and Transparency at the CoreBRANDS
Herbal Essences is the first 
mass hair care brand in mass 
retailer stores to earn the 
EWG VERIFIEDTM stamp of 
approval.
149Supply Chain
Reduce our footprint and strive for circular solutions.
•We will protect and enhance the forests we depend upon.
• W e will improve livelihoods of palm smallholders by increasing
yields from existing lands.
• 100% renewable electricity and cut GHG emissions in half at P&G sites.
•  P&G sites will deliver a 35% increase in water efficiency and source at least
five billion liters of water from circular sources.
•  Advance at least 10 significant supply chain partnerships to drive circularity
on climate, water or waste.
150Reducing our Footprint at Every Stage 
Across our global operations, we are making 
intentional choices to reduce the footprint of our 
suppliers, buyers and manufacturing sites, sourcing 
sustainable materials and exploring new business 
models to drive circular solutions. We are combining resources, reach and knowledge with strategic global partners to drive the scale and speed needed to make 
a real difference.
Striving for Circular Solutions
Circularity has always been a part of our ongoing 
conservation and environmental footprint reduction efforts within water, waste and renewable energy. 
However, as we look toward the next decade, we 
are committed to being both a force for good and a force for growth. As part of that vision, we have 
embraced the need to create a more circular end-
to-end supply chain. To achieve this, we will need to start thinking differently about the incoming 
materials, manufacturing work process, distribution 
and transport of our products. Circularity is not only 
the right thing to do, it also helps make our operations 
more efficient and resilient.We have established specific targets that we 
intend to achieve by 2030:
 100% renewable electricity and cut 
GHG emissions in half at our sites
  O ur sites will deliver a 35% increase  
in water efficiency and source at  
least five billion liters of water from 
circular sources
 Advance at least 20 significant 
supply chain partnerships to drive 
circularity on climate, water or waste 
To learn new methods, find creative partners and  
to accelerate our circular journey, we joined the  
Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s Circular Economy  
100 working group. The Circular Economy 100 is a 
pre-competitive innovation program enables 
organizations to develop new opportunities and  
realize their circular economy ambitions faster. It  
brings together corporations, governments, cities, 
academic institutions, emerging innovators and affiliates in a unique multi-stakeholder platform.Supply ChainSUPPLY CHAIN
As we look toward the next  
decade, we are committed to 
being both a force for good  
and a force for growth.
151As a global citizen, we’re concerned about 
the negative consequences of climate change and are committed to doing our part to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We focus our efforts on reducing the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) from our own operations, helping consumers reduce their own GHG emissions through the use of our products, and finally, building partnerships with our suppliers and retailers to optimize transportation of our products, such as reducing the number of trucks on the roads.
For additional perspective on climate change 
implications that could be relevant for the Company and the steps we are taking to address them, please download our climate change perspective document.Reducing GHG Emission
Scope 1 and 2 We’re on track to deliver our science-based target to reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 30% in 2020 versus 2010. We have reduced absolute scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 25%. The Science Based Targets Initiative recently updated their guidance and validated our target as “well below 2’C.”
We have two key strategies to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions by 2020:
• I mprove operating efficiency by 20%. We have
exceeded that target delivery: a 21% improvement thisyear versus 2010.
• M oving to low-carbon energy sources with a goal of
utilizing 30% renewable energy by next year.
In 2018, we made another significant step onour journey to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG)emissions with the announcement of Ambition2030. We committed to:
• R educing our Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas emissions
by 50% on an absolute basis by 2030 (versus 2010baseline). This is our second science-based target andcomplements our initial science-based target of a 30%reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 2020.
• P urchasing 100% renewable electricity in North
America by 2020 and globally by 2030. These targetswill further advance our efforts to increase our use ofrenewable energy.We have retained Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA) to provide independent verification of  our GHG program to ensure it meets the intent of  the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and  Reporting Standard.ClimateSUPPLY CHAIN
We’re on track to deliver 
our science-based target to 
reduce absolute greenhouse 
gas emissions by 30% in 2020 
versus 2010.
152Climate
-21%
-17%-18% FY17/18
FY16/17FY18/19Reduction in Energy Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/1 0,
production adjusted
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Millions of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other4.1
4.64.1
FY18/19
FY17/18FY18/19
FY16/17Energy Consumption by GBU
Millions of gigajoules
61
6061
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
FY17/18
FY16/17FY18/19Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute
-25%
-16%-25%SUPPLY CHAIN
153Achieving this goal was a meaningful step on our 
sustainability journey, but the work doesn’t stop there. We know we can’t solve the world’s most pressing environmental challenges alone. Continued progress requires collaboration, and we are focused on creating partnerships that will enable people, the planet and the business to thrive.
Reducing Our Carbon Footprint at 
Manufacturing and Distribution Sites
A great example of how our climate actions are coming 
to life is through our efforts in Taicang, China where we produce Head and Shoulders, Pantene, Rejoice and Vidal Sassoon. Designing in sustainability from day one, Taicang was built around the concept of a Chinese water garden and is one of our most sustainable sites globally. They have achieved LEED silver certification, utilize 100% renewable electricity from wind, are qualified as zero manufacturing waste to landfill, and have demonstrated breakthrough water/wastewater recycling. Since their startup in 2012, the plant has continued focus on reducing their footprint, using  lean operational strategies to deliver an additional  27% reduction in energy per unit of production. 
Our Boston plant produces Gillette Razors and is also 
the home of Gillette’s World Shaving Headquarters and R&D center. Over the last five years, this site has reduced their absolute energy consumption over 10% by partnering with their local utility to improve energy efficiency of their operations. Similar to Taicang above, our Milenio Gillette Blades 
& Razors Plant in Irapuato, Mexico continues to be a 
leading example of sustainable manufacturing within 
their region. The plant sends zero manufacturing 
waste to landfill, reuses treated wastewater and gets 
most of their electricity from an offsite wind energy 
partnership. Recognizing their ongoing efforts to 
reduce energy (such as major compressed air and 
cooling upgrades) the plant has won the Energy 
Efficiency State Award for 4 consecutive years. SUPPLY C H AIN
Climate
Renewable E nergy
We achieved a significant 2020 sustainability goal 
ahead of schedule. We are proud to share that we 
are purchasing 100% renewable electricity in the U.S. 
and Canada, and most of Europe except Russia and 
the Ukraine, which currently have not established 
renewable energy markets and tracking systems. 
These three markets are among our largest and 
represent more than 70% of our purchased electricity, 
signifying a strong start to our Ambition 2030 goal  
of purchasing 100% renewable electricity globally  
by 2030. 
Our largest individual contributors are our wind farm 
partnership in Tyler Bluff, Texas which offsets 100% 
of the electricity needed for our Fabric and Home 
Care facilities in the U.S. and Canada and our onsite 
combined heat and power biomass facility in Albany, 
Georgia, which provides 100% of the Bounty and 
Charmin s team r equirements a t this p lant.
In addition to these large-scale projects, we are 
reducing emissions in our global operations through a 
diverse portfolio of renewable energy projects focused 
on wind, solar, geothermal, hydro and the use of 
renewable energy certificates, all of which helped us 
meet our 2020 renewable electricity goal. Our intent is 
that by executing new projects, while also continuing 
to purchase electricity from renewable sources, we can 
spur further innovation, investment and a transition to 
renewable energy for the regional utilities that provide 
energy to many of our sites globally. We are proud to share that we 
are purchasing 100% renewable 
electricity in the U.S. and Canada, 
and most of Europe.
154Scope 3 GHG Emissions
More than 99% of our Scope 3 emissions come from 
just four categories — purchased goods and services, downstream transportation and distribution, use of sold product, and end of life treatment of sold product. Of these, the “use phase” of our products, especially those that use hot water during consumer use, is our single greatest opportunity for Scope 3 emissions. 
Given these four categories account for more than 
99% of Scope 3 emissions, we focused this year’s data update on those categories and derived new estimates for them using life cycle assessment (LCA) data and calendar year 2018 production volumes. Findings were consistent with prior years, indicating consumer use of our products remains our greatest opportunity area. Updated data on packaging materials were included in purchased good and services which and we also updated our business travel emissions. The business travel estimate includes commercial airline travel by employees that were managed by our primary outside travel agencies. Travel arranged by other agencies is not covered in the calculation and would therefore exclude the following markets — Singapore (Prior to March, 2019), China, Taiwan, Indonesia, and Russia. We expect to include those countries in next year’s report.  Scope 3 Categories Tons CO2e
Purchased goods and services — upstream transport 
& distribution16,421,0001
Capital goods 247,0002
Fuel & energy activities 495,0003
Waste generated in operations 9.0003
Business travel 151,0424
Employee commuting 117,0002
Upstream leased assets Not material
Downstream transport & distribution5,394,0001
Processing of sold product Not material
Use of sold product 199,133,0001
End of life treatment of sold product13,251,0001
Downstream leased assets Not material
Franchises Not material
Investments Not materialClimate
1 Calendar year 2018 estimate from LCA data
2 Fiscal year 16/17 estimate
3 scope limited to material sent to landfill
4 Covers period June 1, 2018 – May 31, 2019SUPPLY CHAIN
Consumer use 
of our products 
remains our greatest 
opportunity area.
155Responsible Forestry
Although we do not own or manage 
commercial forests, many of our products and packages are dependent on raw materials from forest-based supply chains. Therefore, we play a key role, through our procurement and manufacturing practices, to ensure the sustainability of the world’s forest resources.
Forests are critical to earth’s ecosystem 
and to the plant, animals and human communities that depend of them. The world’s forests hold the potential to mitigate some of the most important threats we face such as climate change, but they remain under pressure from population increases and economic demands. One of the easiest ways to counteract threats to forests is by looking for and purchasing wood products which are sourced from responsibly managed forests and tree plantations.We remain committed to sourcing wood pulp certified 
to leading international forest certification standards. We have been working diligently to define Ambition 2030 plans,which go beyond our prior efforts to enhance and protect the world’s forests and which help advance our commitments to:
·
 I ncrease the area of certified forests globally, while
working to strengthen leading certification systems.
· P lay a leadership role in developing a collaborative
science-based forest-positive approach that supports
sustaining and expanding working forests that weand others depend on.
Wood pulp for tissue/towel and absorbent hygieneproducts, wood fibers used in paper packaging andpalm oil for our laundry and beauty products arestrategic commodities where our sourcing practiceshave the greatest impacts on ensuring responsibleuse of the world’s forest resources. Each of thesematerials has a different supply chain, and their uniquecomplexities led us to develop individual programs asdescribed in the following sections.SUPPLY CHAIN
We remain committed to 
sourcing certified wood pulp 
and to leading international 
forest certification standards. 
156Wood Pulp Supply Chains
Procurement Policy  
As part of our procurement practices, we require that 
all wood used for pulp supplied has undergone a risk assessment in accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) Controlled Wood standard. The FSC Controlled Wood risk assessments ensure that unwanted wood sources are avoided, and that wood harvesting is done legally per our procurement policy. Our preference for FSC makes use of both FSC  Chain of Custody (FSC COC) and Controlled Wood  (FSC CW) inputs. 
We require that the forest certification systems utilized 
by our wood pulp suppliers adhere to the following criteria for responsible forest management:
·
 E nsure the safety of forestry and manufacturing
operations for employees and the environment.
· E nsure that unwanted wood sources are avoided,
and that wood is legally harvested, and that all legal
requirements are met. We will not knowingly useillegally sourced materials in our products.
·
 E nsure that their supply chain incorporates the
principles of responsible forest management andcontinuous improvement in their own operations,
and that they are verified by independent forest
and chain-of-custody certification.· E nsure that trees are not harvested from high-
conservation value forests unless they are crediblycertified to the most rigorous forest managementstandards. We supports multi-stakeholder efforts todevelop information sources and tools that will helpsuppliers identify these areas on their own forestlandsand in their procurement of wood raw materials fromthird parties.
·
 E nsure that there is no sourcing from genetically
modified trees in pulp delivered to us.
· E nsure that their own and their supplier practices
reflect our social values and support of universalhuman rights through work with local governmentsand communities to improve the educational, cultural,economic and social wellbeing of those communities.
·
 E nsure that their supply chain used to produce
our pulp does not contain fiber from conflict
timber (timber that was traded in a way that
drives violent armed conflict or threatens national
or regional stability).Responsible ForestrySUPPLY CHAIN
We require that the forest 
certification systems utilized 
by our wood pulp suppliers 
adhere to responsible  
forest management.
157Responsible Forestry
Third-Party Certification
100% of the virgin wood pulp we purchase for use in 
our tissue/towel and absorbent hygiene products is third-party certified by one of our accepted forest certification systems. 
We give preference to FSC certified pulp when it 
is available and meets product performance and business requirements. FSC certification protects water, wildlife and local people by ensuring forests are responsibly managed. FSC standards are recognized worldwide as the most trusted forest management certification scheme and are supported by leading international environmental NGOs.
Based on the market availability of certified pulp, our 
supply chain will also source from other third-party forestry certification systems, such as:
·
 P rogramme for the Endorsement of Forest
Certification (PEFC)
· S ustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI)
· B razilian Forest Certification Programme (CERFLOR)
· C anadian Standards Association (CSA) Group
Sustainable Forest Management System (SFM)Pulp For Our Tissue/Towel  
and Absorbent Hygiene Products
Pulp Sources  
In FY18/19, we purchased 1.3 million metric tons of air-dried pulp for use in our tissue/towel, diaper and absorbent hygiene products. The pulp was sourced from the following countries and used the following third-party certified fiber:FSC G roup C ertificate S upport
In 2016, we met with the Four States Timberland 
Owners Association (FSTOA), led by Domtar, to discuss 
expanding the amount of timberland that is under 
forest management certification.
Together, we are committed to lowering the technical 
and financial hurdles to increasing forest certification 
in family-owned forests through Domtar’s FSTOA FSC 
group certificate.
Our participation supported the growth in certified 
lands, and we continue to support the operation 
and expansion of the association. Country of Origin % of Total
Argentina < 1%
Brazil 35%
Canada 35%
United States 28%
Sweden 1%
Total 100%
Certification System % of Total
FSC COC 39%
FSC CW 4%
PEFC 22%
SFI 35%
Total 100%
FSC COC — FSC Chain of Custody 
FSC CW — Controlled WoodOur Charmin toilet tissue 
and Puffs facial tissue 
products are FSC certified by Rainforest Alliance.We give preference to FSC certified pulp because the certification ensures forests are responsibly managed.
SUPPLY CHAIN
158Responsible Forestry
Advancing Global Certification
Strengthening Forest Certification  
In early 2019, the PEFC Council made a call for 
volunteers to participate in a new permanent Sustainable Forest Management Working Group. We were nominated to join the working group and selected as a participant, representing customers and consumers. The working group will continue development of PEFC’s sustainable forest management approach and provide guidance on the implementation and interpretation of PEFC’s benchmark standards for forest management certification. Our participation in this working group will help advance our Ambition 2030 commitment to strengthen the world’s leading forest certifications systems.
Continuing Collaboration
Arbor Day Foundation Tree Planting We worked with Arbor Day Foundation (ADF) and additional collaborators to help ReLeaf Michigan plant trees in Detroit’s Corktown neighborhood Muliett Park in June 2019. The trees were planted by volunteers, and the new trees will help Detroit meet its goal of providing all residents with a park within a ten-minute walk. The trees beautify the park and will grow to provide shade for the park’s amenities. The two organizations previously collaborated in a similar tree-planting event in Detroit in 2017. New Forestry Commitments 
Today, all our Family Care products are made with 100% certified pulp, sourced from responsibly managed forests. Charmin and Puffs are also Forest Stewardship Council© (FSC©) and Rainforest Alliance certified. For every tree we use, at least one is regrown. And we will go even further to increase acres of certified forests, strengthen certification globally and accelerate research into alternative fiber approaches. 
Among its new commitments, P&G Family Care will:
• W ork with experts to increase the number of
forest acres that are FSC-certified in the U.S. and
Canada. FSC is a widely respected certification. Weare committed to nearly doubling our use of FSC-certified fiber to 75% across all P&G Family Carebrands in the next five years.
• P artner with FSC Canada to protect caribou
as outlined in the new FSC Canadian ForestManagement Standard. This standard has beenrecognized by many NGOs for protecting caribou tothe highest level available, as noted by the NaturalResources Defense Council (NRDC) in 2019 and theWorld Wildlife Fund (WWF) in 2018 and 2019.
• I nvest a total of $20 million dollars by 2025 to
accelerate research into non-wood fiber alternativesand FSC certified fast-growing fibers. Our goalis to develop fibers that are consumer-preferred,sustainably sourced and can be produced at scale.We will work with external experts to strengthenthese efforts and find disruptive solutions. We aspireto include greater than 50% of these environmentallypreferred fibers in our products.• H elp the Arbor Day Foundation plant two million
trees via their California Wildfire Restoration project.Our support will help to restore forests that havebeen devastated by wildfires.
• U se 100% recycled fiber in our fiber-based packaging
by 2025. Fiber-based packaging is the best way toreuse fiber while creating a product
that people prefer.
• These commitments will help ensure the preservationof forests now and in the future. For more details,check out a recently published blog post from FSC orour Charmin website and blog post:SUPPLY CHAIN
All of our Family Care products are 
made with 100% certified pulp sourced 
from responsibly managed forests.
159Responsible ForestrySUPPLY CHAIN
Total volume in metric tons: ~740,000
% Recycled 85%
% Virgin 15%
% of virgin fiber  
that was third-party-certified93%
% of total recycled or  
third-party-certified virgin 99%We continually strive to optimize the design of our 
packaging, aiming to use the least amount of material 
while ensuring adequate protection, delivery and safe 
use of our products. As part of our ongoing efforts, we 
continue to identify source reduction opportunities 
to decrease overall material usage and to use 
recycled paper when it offers the best option to meet 
performance an d business r equirements.
Our paper-based packaging is derived from wood 
fiber, and we have a responsibility through our 
procurement practices to ensure that the wood fiber 
in our packaging has been responsibly sourced. We 
have made a specific commitment that by 2020, 100% 
of our paper packaging will contain either recycled or 
third-party-certified virgin content. Over the last year, 
we have expanded our efforts to collect data from 
an increased number of suppliers to assess progress 
against this goal. This year, we have received data 
from more than 100 suppliers that represent more 
than 95% of our global paper packaging spend.This data, which was self-reported by our suppliers, is 
summarized in the following table:
This year, 99% of the volume reported by our suppliers 
was either recycled or third-party-certified virgin content. That means less than 1% of the total reported volume was virgin material that was not third-party certified. Over the course of the next year, we  will work to close the remaining gap versus  our goal.
99%  of the volume
reported by our suppliers was 
either recycled or third-party-
certified virgin content.
160Palm Oil (PO) is an important, versatile and 
highly efficient vegetable oil that is used as 
a raw material by both food and non-food 
industries. In some regions of the world, 
the rapid expansion of PO production has 
threatened environmentally sensitive areas 
of tropical forests and peat lands and has 
resulted in incidents where the rights of 
independent smallholder farmers and indigenous peoples have been infringed.
We are committed to the responsible sourcing of 
palm that does not contribute to deforestation and 
respects the rights of workers and indigenous peoples. 
We are members of the Roundtable on Sustainable 
Palm Oil (RSPO) and support their standards to drive 
responsible palm practices across the industry. In 
addition, we have established a robust approach to 
ensuring the responsible sourcing of palm derived 
materials which includes supplier management, 
improving lives of smallholders and industry influence.
Palm Oil Responsible Sourcing Policy
P&G is committed to ensuring our suppliers meet RSPO Principles and Criteria (P&C) 2018 and have the 
necessary policies and procedures in place to ensure:
• No development of high-conservation-value (HCV)
areas and high-carbon-stock* (HCS) forests
• N o new development of peat lands regardless
of depth• N o burning to clear land for new development or
replanting
• C ompliance with P&G’s existing Sustainability
Guidelines for External Business Partners
• Respect for human and labor rights
• R espect for land tenure rights, including rights of
indigenous and local communities to give or withhold
their free, prior and informed consent for development
of land they own legally, communally or by custom
All of our suppliers have submitted their relevant 
policies and procedures to demonstrate how they we 
will meet our requirements. Our expectation is that our 
suppliers apply these policies to all of their operations, 
not just those supplying P&G. If we find a supplier is 
violating any of the above requirements, and if that 
supplier does not acknowledge and take action to 
resolve the concern, P&G will suspend or eliminate palm oil purchases from that supplier. A supplier 
would need to have a documented action plan and 
demonstrate meaningful progress to be considered for 
reinstating supply agreements.
*The High Carbon Stock Approach (HCSA) Toolkit was incorporated into the 
2018 RSPO P&C and should be applied to identify and conserve HCS forests, 
and verify our commitments.Palm OilSUPPLY CHAIN
We are committed to the responsible 
sourcing of palm that does not 
contribute to deforestation and 
respects the rights of workers and 
indigenous peoples. 
161Progress
During FY18/19 key milestones included:
• G reatly increased transparency of our supply chain
by publishing both palm oil supplier names and a
detailed list of the Palm Oil Mills in our supply chain.
We have traced >98% of our supply chain to Palm
Oil Mills.
• M aintained 100% RSPO certification for palm oil/
palm oil derivatives and have switched all our PO
purchases to RSPO Certified SG and we remain on
track to purchase 100% of our palm oil derivatives as
RSPO SG by the end of 2020. Our target is to move the
remaining palm purchases (PKO and PKOD) used in
P&G brands to RSPO Certified (or equivalent) by the
end of CY 2022.
• A nnounced a 3rd party collaboration with FGV, our
key PKO supplier and JV Partner in Malaysia, to invest
in and accelerate FGV’s human rights remediation
efforts. Details of this effort can be found here:
• D r. Kuanchun Lee, a P&G Principle Scientist, was
elected to the RSPO Board of Governors representing
the Consumer Good Forum’s manufacturing
companies and played a key role in the Principles
and Criteria (P&C) 2018 task force which gained
RSPO approval at its RT 16 in Kota Kinabalu inNovember 2018.
• M oved our Smallholders Program in Malaysia from a
series of pilots to a full-fledged program through the
creation of the P&G Center for Sustainable Small-owners (P&G-CSS) to drive livelihood improvementand supply chain verification to P&G Responsible 
Sourcing Policy. 
• W e have participated in the RSPO Independent
Smallholder Standard (RISS) development and will
guide independent smallholders in the Smallholders
Program into the RISS certification process
•  W e have participated in the RSPO Jurisdictional
Working Group to develop the framework and
certification structure to enable broader compliance to
RSPO standards and our Responsible Sourcing Policy.3 Pillar Framework
We continue to advance progress against our 3-pillar 
framework. You can read more about the detailed 
progress in each of our three pillar areas by clicking  
on the links below:Palm Oil
SUPPLY CHAIN
162Pillar I: Supplier Management
Palm Oil
We use ingredients derived from palm oil and palm 
oil derivatives in Skin & Personal Cleansing and Fabric 
Care products. 
We are proud of our progress on Palm Oil and achieved 
100% RSPO Segregated (SG) Palm Oil purchases at 
the end of 2018. We’re also advancing plans to move 
our Palm Oil Derivatives to RSPO Segregated (SG) by 
the end of 2020. Until that time, we will maintain our 
Palm Oil derivatives to be RSPO Mass Balance (MB) 
Certified. Our ability to achieve that may be influenced 
by broader market dynamics and supply availability, 
but we have already engaged with our suppliers on 
plans to achieve this goal. This is consistent with our 
belief that it is the demand for palm oil that is driving 
forest conversion and peat land pressures and the 
greatest impacts can be achieved by industry placing a disproportionate focus on driving sustainable palm oil 
production practices across all categories and regions 
that use palm oil.
Learn more about why we are moving to RSPO SG PO. Palm Kernel Oil 
We use ingredients derived from Palm Kernel Oil and 
Palm Kernel Oil Derivatives in Fabric Care, Home Care, Hair Care and Skin & Personal Cleansing products. Our 
major PKO and PKOD suppliers are FGV, Wilmar, ICOF, 
KLK, GAR and AAA.
Thanks to a unique partnership with the Malaysia 
Institute for Supply Chain Innovation and FGV, our 
single largest PKO supplier, we have gained significant 
visibility to the sourcing plantations and regions of 
FGV’s PKO supply chain. In fact, we now know that 
about 96% of our palm kernel oil was sourced from a 
known subset of FGV’s palm oil mills. FGV are currently 
on a glidepath to re-certify their mills which voluntarily 
withdrew their RSPO certification in 2016. As FGV 
progresses their recertification efforts, our percentage 
of RSPO MB certified PKO will increase. We are 
targeting to reach 100% RSPO MB PKO and PKOD  
for ingredients used in P&G products by the end  
of 2022. Palm Oil
1  T his represents the total volume of PO and PO derivatives purchased by P&G. 
Approximately 95% of this is used internally by P&G brands. The remaining 5% 
is sold to external parties through our P&G Chemicals division
2  W e achieved 100% RSPO SG Palm Oil, Palm Oil Fractions at the end of 2018. 
The data in this table reflect totals over FY18/19 (July 1, 2018–June 30, 2019) which is why not listed as 100% RSPO SGPalm Oil/Palm 
Oil Fractions2Palm Oil 
Derivatives
Metric Tons163,802 62,667
RSPO 
Certified (%)100% 100%
%MB 24% 100%
%SG 76% 0%
*This represents the total volume of PKO and PKO derivatives purchased by 
P&G. Approximately 65% of this is used internally by P&G brands. The remaining 
35% is sold to external parties through our P&G Chemicals divisionPalm 
Kernel OilPalm Kernel Oil 
Derivatives
Metric Tons*288,694 85,322
RSPO 
Certified (%)16 16
RSPO MB Certified (%)0 0SUPPLY CHAIN
163Suppliers’ Traceability
The map below shows the Palm Oil Mill location from 
our traceability exercise which cover over 98% of our 
palm purchases. The key direct suppliers are Wilmar, 
ICOF, AAA, GAR and Kalmart.2020 and Beyond
While we are proud of the progress we have made 
for the oil we procure, we recognize that challenges 
remain in the broader palm oil industry. As a result, we 
will be expanding the focus of our efforts to include 
elements which can help drive broader systemic 
change within the industry. This includes the following:
Enterprise-wide Monitoring of Supplier Operations  
We believe an industry wide monitoring system 
based on use of aerial/satellite imagery, concession 
maps, and knowledge of HCV/HCS areas would be a powerful tool to help ensure consistent enforcement 
of palm oil sourcing policies. The technology needed 
for such a system exists today but broad collaboration 
across the value chain will be required to maximize the 
impact such a system could have. We are committed 
to working with our peers in the CPG industry and 
our suppliers to evaluate how such a system could be 
implemented and maintained and will make this a 
focus of our efforts in FY19/20.
Jurisdictional Approaches:  
We believe that jurisdictional approaches offer an 
opportunity to help reward positive efforts of regions/
states to establish robust responsible sourcing basins. 
As a first step to understand what we can do to help 
support regions seeking to advance responsible 
practices, we have joined the Tropical Forest Alliance 
to learn more about emerging efforts in our key 
sourcing regions of Indonesia and Malaysia. As we go 
forward, we will look to support jurisdictional efforts by 
preferentially sourcing oil from these efforts when it is 
feasible to do so.Conserve and Protect Sensitive Areas 
We will go beyond our current sourcing efforts and 
identify where we can make a positive difference 
by investing in conservation of sensitive areas. Over 
FY19/20 we will work with external partners to define 
specific areas and investments we can make that will 
help protect sensitive areas.
Focus Areas for FY19/20 
• A dvance supply chain efforts to reach 100% RSPO SG
for POD by Dec 2020.
• I mplement PKO and PKOD RSPO Certification
glidepath towards 100% by Dec 2022.
• S trengthen the supply chain risk assessment to
determine the landscapes around P&G supplying
mills where there is a large coverage of ecologically
sensitive areas. Use this data to inform work with
the relevant stakeholders to establish/participate in
conservation programs.
• A dvance work to develop Supplier Enterprise-wide
Monitoring System. This will include evaluation
and selection of existing monitoring systems and
participating in multi stakeholder efforts to develop aprocess for grievance alerts and ensuring appropriate
follow up actionsPalm OilSUPPLY CHAIN
164Pillar II: Smallholders
The P&G Smallholders Program is focused on the 
independent smallholders within our oleo-chemicals 
supply chain in Malaysia. Its two main objectives are:
1. D evelop the capability and enable the capacity
of independent smallholders to be sustainable
suppliers in compliance with P&G Palm Responsible
Sourcing Policy
2. I mprove independent smallholders’ livelihood
through yield increase
P&G Center for Sustainable Small-owners (P&G-CSS) 
FY18/19 was a major milestone year where we 
strategically partnered with the Malaysia Institute for 
Supply Chain Innovation (MISI), a member of the MIT 
Global SCALE Network to establish P&G-CSS.
As the main delivery partner for the P&G Smallholders 
Program, the mission of P&G-CSS is to safeguard 
the interest of the smallholders and improve their 
livelihood while ensuring ethical and responsible 
sourcing for oil palm with commitments to no 
deforestation, no new plantation on peatlands and no 
exploitation in the supply chain.a. Traceability & Sustainability Compliance
P&G-CSS has signed on-boarding agreement with 15
Collection centers in Johor, Malaysia
• T hese Collection Centers (CC) are critical Fresh Fruit
Bunches (FFB) aggregation points representing anetwork of 4,500 smallholders
b. Ambition 2030 — Livelihood Improvement
 C ompleted foliar, soil and vegetative samplings for the
12 Learning Farms
• I mplemented Fertilizer Plan for improved nutrient
management for Learning Farms
• C reated supply chain financing mechanism for
fertilizer procurement to support independentsmallholdersPalm OilSUPPLY CHAIN
FY18/19 Key Highlights
Collection Centres On-boarded 15
Smallholder Farms Traced 4500
mT PKO Traceable to Smallholders 4000
Smallholders Engaged 1263
Learning Farms Developed 12
165c. RSPO Partnership for Smallholders
P&G sits in the RSPO Smallholder Standing Committee
to oversee the execution of the RSPO Smallholder
Strategy etc.
• P &G with MISI become impact partners for the RSPO
Smallholder Academy
• 4 P &G-CSS staff have qualified as Master Trainers for
the RSPO Smallholder Trainer Academy
• P &G-CSS contributed to and partnered with RSPO
to assess feasibility and auditability of the RSPO
Independent Smallholder Standard (RISS).
d. Oil Palm Data Warehouse (OPDW)
Our technology partner, MIMOS - Malaysia’s National
R&D Centre has completed the first phase of OPDW
with track and trace capability from our oleo-chemicals
operations to independent smallholders in the P&G
Smallholders Program
• O PDW is embedded with big-data analytics and
block-chain technologies to optimize data collectionand digitalization
• T o-date, 1210 independent smallholders’ profile
with 1224 farm assessments have been uploadedinto OPDW, analyzed and reported through P&GPalm Responsible Sourcing Policy for SmallholdersScorecard
• I ts traceability capability has enabled us to trace
about 98% of our palm sourcing to millsFY19/20 Objectives  
 Prepare and guide first 250 independent smallholders 
in our program towards RISS eligibility phase audit
• C ontinue development of 30 Learning Farms and
train 100 smallholders on good agricultural practicesthrough Field Days
• E xpand our Program to on-board seven new CC on
top of current 15 CC
• C reate certification and sustainability awareness
among smallholders through regular engagements,awareness campaigns and training modules
• F urther enhance the digital capability of OPDW
and P&G’s traceability to mills analysis to strengthenour transparencyPalm OilSUPPLY CHAIN
As leaders in their fields, MISI and 
MIMOS are strategic partners to 
the P&G Smallholders Program.
166Pillar III: Industry Influence
Continuing to develop and drive harmonization 
of industry approaches and standards is critically 
important not only for P&G, but also the industry as a 
whole to deliver the P&G Palm Responsible Sourcing 
Policy and industry common goal and support social 
aspirations of the palm community. P&G has been 
member of the High Carbon Stock Approach Steering 
Group (HCSA SG), RSPO’s No Deforestation Taskforce 
(NDTF), No Deforestation Joint Steering Group (NDJSG), 
Smallholder Interim Group (SHIG), Smallholder 
Standing Committee (SHSC), Jurisdictional Working 
Group (JWG), to enable implementation of the 
P&C 2018, and development of RSPO Independent 
Smallholder Standard (RISS), and the Jurisdictional 
approach and certification process. As a member of 
the RSPO Board of Governors, we are contributing 
to strengthen RSPO’s impact in continuously 
transforming the industry and expanding sustainable 
palm oil to a norm. Key highlight of the collaboration 
areas and progress are outlined below:
Implementing No Deforestation, Peat and 
Exploitation (NDPE) Policy with RSPO P&C  
The 2018 P&C was approved by the RSPO members 
in November 2018, achieved a key milestone 
incorporating NDPE into the RSPO standard and 
enabling a key means to verify NDPE compliance for 
the industry. P&G as member of HCSA SG, RSPO NDTF 
and NDJSG are contributing to the transition into 
integrated HCS and HCV process for No Deforestation, 
development of High Forest Cover (HFC) landscape/
countries procedure into the RSPO P&C. These are 
critically important in enabling effective and credible 
implementation of the P&C.RSPO Independent 
Smallholder Standard  
(RISS) and Inclusion  
Implementing the RSPO 
Smallholder Strategy 
is key to improve the 
livelihood, drive inclusion 
and participation of more 
smallholders in the RSPO system. 
The new RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard is 
the means to realize the strategy. As member of the 
Smallholder Interim Group, we have been contributing 
to develop the RSPO Independent Smallholder 
Standard (RISS) — a more simplified, inclusive process, 
with stepwise approach to support continuous 
improvement of practice and productivity of this key 
supply chain sector into the RSPO system, and key 
eligibility requirements to enable market support to 
the smallholders to advance the milestones toward 
100% RSPO compliance. We are supporting the RSPO 
Smallholder Academy and aiming to developing 
readiness of the P&G Smallholders Program to become 
RISS certified and are looking forward to the approval 
of RISS in November 2019. Four of our field officers in 
our Program were trained to the Academy’s Master 
Trainer and will be supporting the P&G Program as well 
as the smallholder strategy implementation. For the 
fourth consecutive year, P&G sponsored the Linking 
and Learning program at the RSPO Roundtable 
16 meeting in Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, bringing 
smallholders to share their experiences on RSPO, and 
to be updated on the RSPO strategy and programs to 
support them. We are committed to continuing the 
support to the smallholders who produces 40% of the 
palm oil globally and have been nominated to sit in the RSPO Smallholder Standing Committee which will 
oversee the successful implementation of the RSPO 
Smallholder Strategy and Standard.
RSPO Jurisdictional Approach  
The RSPO Jurisdictional Approach is aiming to 
engage and ensure the RSPO and non-RSPO 
member producers in a jurisdiction are meeting the 
P&C and be certified eventually. P&G is member of 
the Jurisdictional Working Group to develop the 
process and certification system that will incorporate 
HCS-HCV mapping at large scale for protection and 
land-use planning, step-wise approach for continuous 
improvements, and strong governance structure 
under the jurisdictional entity. The JA is an important 
system in advancing RSPO’s outreach to the broad 
independent supply chain with support from the 
multi-stakeholder community. We are looking forward 
to refining and finalizing the system by 2020 in 
collaboration with the JWG members. 
Consumer Goods Forum Palm Oil  
Working Group (CGF POWG)  
P&G is member of the CGF POWG to mobilize 
resources in driving industry progress on NDPE 
policy and goals, as well as enabling alignment and 
development of standards and methodologies. We 
are supporting the priorities to increase transparency 
by developing sector-wide deforestation monitoring 
system and implement the Forced Labor Priority 
Industry Principles to strengthen social responsibility 
in palm oil supply chain.Palm OilSUPPLY CHAIN
167Water is essential for the daily operation 
of our facilities and production of many of 
our products. Creating a culture of water efficiency at our sites continues to be a focus 
with the launch of our Ambition 2030 goals. 
Thanks to the work of many employees 
across our global portfolio, we’ve been able 
to reduce our manufacturing water usage 
by 27% per unit of production since 2010. 
Water Efficiency at Our 
Manufacturing Sites
Our Mexico Hair Care plant is in an area which has 
been experiencing water stress. The employees are 
committed to reducing their use of fresh water and are 
leveraging innovative data analytics to drive actionable 
insights from water meters installed throughout the 
site. The analysis of this data provides the plant with 
a daily understanding of water consumption so they 
can act immediately to eliminate losses. The plant can 
also benchmark their water efficiency performance 
with other sites. In the first month of operation, the 
site identified five projects that can improve their 
production adjusted water efficiency by 10%. Our Feminine Care plant in Hungary developed 
innovative solutions to expand their business without 
increasing their demand on the local water supply. The 
plant’s water recycling process consists of industrially proven water treatment technologies. This plant 
can recycle a remarkable 98% of the Always Infinity 
manufacturing area’s daily water demand. This is equal 
to more than 230 million liters of recycled water per 
year. Waste produced from this recycling operation 
is repurposed, allowing the plant to maintain its Zero 
Manufacturing Waste to Landfill status. 
Our newest manufacturing plant in West Virginia is 
recycling more than 230 million liters of water per year, 
or the average annual water consumption of 550 West 
Virginia households. Rejected water from the plant’s 
water purification process is treated and reused in 
plant utility systems and product formulations. This recycled water offsets fresh water supplied to the plant. Water
-27%
-26%-25% FY17/18
FY16/17FY18/19Reduction in Water Consumption
Percent reduction versus FY09/10,
per unit of production
6263
64FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Water Consumption by GBU
Millions of cubic meters
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other6363
62FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Water Consumption by GBU
Millions of cubic meters
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other
16 FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBU
Thousands of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other21
19
*Chemical Oxygen DemandAchieved — 27% reduction per unit 
of productionReduce water use in manufacturing facilities by 20% 
per unit of production with conservation focused on water-stressed regionsWater 2020 GoalsSUPPLY CHAIN
168Water Risk Assessments 
In combination with our efficiency work, we’ve 
continued to make progress in our commitment to 
focus our efforts in areas exposed to high water risk. 
We developed a Water Risk Assessment framework 
in partnership with the World Resources Institute 
(WRI), World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and Environmental 
Resources Management (ERM) in order to guide our 
efforts to the highest priority areas. 
After completing steps 1 and 2 of the Water Risk 
Assessment framework, 24 manufacturing sites were 
identified as being exposed to high water risk. These 
24 sites moved on to Tier 3 of our assessment process.Water
PRIORITY SITES FROM 2
~15% of sites will complete 
the Tier 3 processALL SITES SCREENED
~70% of sites in  
lower-risk regions
PRIORITY SITES FROM 1
~30% of sites have entered 
the Tier 2 processTailored Site Questionnaire (Completed)
Prioritize sites based on outcome of responses.
• The Company questionnaire was built upon the
facility questionnaire in WWF’s Water Risk Filter2Water Risk Screening (Completed)
Identify risk level of sites based on:
• Baseline water stress score  — World Resources Institute
• Gross national income per capita  — World Bank
• Company site water use per year  — P&G
• Access to water  — WHO/UNICEF1
3In-Depth Site Water Analysis (Current Phase)Prioritize risks for mitigation and develop site water 
stewardship plans.
• Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) International
Water Stewardship Standard 1.0 steps 1-3.Water Risk Assessment FrameworkSUPPLY CHAIN
169The Alliance for Water Stewardship
As part of a two-year program, each of the 24 Tier 3 
facilities will create site water stewardship plans. In 
the past year, half of these facilities followed steps 1, 
2 and 3 of the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) 
International Water Stewardship Standard 1.0. This 
standard provides a globally applicable framework for 
major water users to understand their water use and 
impacts and to work collaboratively and transparently 
for sustainable water management within a basin 
context. 
By using the AWS Standard, each of the facilities 
created site-specific water stewardship action plans, 
learned more about the shared challenges in their 
local water basins and identified key stakeholders 
for potential future partnerships. These facilities will 
continue their focus on improving water efficiency 
within the facility as they execute their water 
stewardship action plans. The remaining sites will 
complete their assessments this year. Water
Tier 3 Facilities
Sites that have completed 
AWS steps 1, 2 and 3 and 
created site-speciﬁc water 
stewardship action plans
Sites who will complete
this yearSUPPLY CHAIN
170We have a vision that one day zero consumer 
and manufacturing waste will go to landfill. 
To help lead the way and demonstrate what 
is possible, our production facilities across 
the world are on a mission to get to zero 
manufacturing waste to landfill by 2020. 
We started our Zero Manufacturing Waste to 
Landfill (ZMWTL) journey in 2008, and what we once 
considered an impossible dream is close to becoming 
a reality. Our “Waste to Worth” program has helped  
us transform our processes and the way we operate 
across our 100+ manufactturing site, that effectively 
became waste champions. Working closely with 
our Global Asset Recovery Purchases (GARP) team, 
we found beneficial use for our waste, helping the 
Company save more than $2 billion while diverting 
more than five million tons of would-be waste from 
landfill. In the past year, the team has continued to 
make phenomenal progress.
• Our Pantene and Head & Shoulders manufacturing
site in Thailand received a “Responsible Care Award”
in the first year of enrollment to the Responsible Care
Management System® and for their performance
in health, safety and environmental protection. The
award recognizes companies with outstanding
compliance within (1) Community Awareness
& Emergency Response, (2) Process Safety, (3)
Employee Health & Safety, (4) Pollution Prevention, (5)
Distribution and (6) Product Stewardship. Building
off this work, the site also partnered with the Plastic
Institute of Thailand and Chulalongkorn University
to conduct a local material flow analyses to better
understand consumer habits and waste consumption
across Thailand.Waste
-86%
-79%-81% FY17/18
FY16/17FY18/19Waste Disposed
Percent reduction versus FY09/10
per unit of production
30
4640FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBU
Thousands of metric tons
56 FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Disposed Waste by GBU
Thousands of metric tons
72
773
3FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Solid Waste Hazardous by GBU
Thousands of metric tons
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care Other2
6363
62FY17/18
FY16/17
FY15/16Water Consumption by GBU
Millions of cubic meters
Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty
Fabric & Home Care Grooming
Health Care OtherSUPPLY CHAIN
171Waste
• Our Global Asset Recovery Purchases (GARP) program
continues to be a great enabler in our waste efforts as
we find innovative ways to reduce waste and disposal
costs. Here are some of the innovative solutions GARP
has implemented this year:
• I n our Manchester plant (Baby Care) in the United
Kingdom, we have diverted from landfill about
1600 tons of scrap diapers/year, which are now
recycled and repurposed as absorbent materials
for animal litter.
• I n the USA, we send water sludge from our
multiple Fabric Care and Chemical plants to Bio
Energy companies where it is used for Anaerobic
Digestion to create Bio-methane from waste,
offsetting the use of fossil fuels for energygeneration
•  O ur Edwardsville Mixing Center designed a process 
with an external partner to take line scrap soap
products and re-purpose it to be used to clean rail
cars in their operations.
• After accomplishing ZMWTL for five consecutive
years, our Akashi plant is now “All in to CLEAN.” It is
located in an industrial zone along with many other
Japanese manufacturing sites. With trucks coming in
and out all day, this industrial zone has filled with litter.
In response, the Akashi plant established a volunteer
network for cleanup activities. Employees take turns to
clean the industrial zone with their peers to ensure this
is not just a one-time event, but an ongoing effort.
• Marktheidenfeld and Altfeld converted employee coffee
machines from plastic cups to stainless steel cups. The
training team at the Mrktheidenfeld plant labeled
and distributed stainless steel cups with employees’names at both the Marktheidenfeld plant and Altfeld 
distribution center during Earth Week. Reusable coffee cups were also distributed at the Walldurn plant. 
• This year, our UK office in Weybridge eliminated 95% of
single-use plastic on-site in our employee restaurant
and coffee shop, installing a bring-your-own culture
for reusable coffee cups and water bottles. Our sites
in Cobalt, Harrogate and our Newcastle Innovation
Center are on the path to do the same.18
11
14
11
16
2
2
11FY15/1622 FY16/1716 FY17/18FY18/19
FY14/15
FY13/14
FY12/13
FY11/12
FY10/11
FY9/106
FY8/9
FY7/8Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landﬁll 
Sites qualiﬁed by FY
Belgium
BrazilCanadaChileChinaColombiaCzech 
Republic
EgyptFranceGermanyHungaryIndiaIndonesiaIrelandItalyJapanMexicoMoroccoNigeriaPakistanPhilippinesPolandRomaniaRussian 
FederationSingapore
South AfricaSouth KoreaSpainThailandTurkeyUkraineUnited 
Kingdom
VietnamCountries that are ZMWTLSUPPLY CHAIN
172Society
Create transformative partnerships that enable 
people, the planet and our business to thrive.
•We will find solutions so no P&G packaging will find its way to the ocean.
•We will protect water for people and nature in priority basins.
•We will advance recycling solutions for absorbent hygiene products.
173As part of our Ambition 2030, we are aiming to enable 
and inspire a positive impact and have set goals that we believe will be good for consumers, good for the planet and good for business. We’re committed to making an impact on society by forming the right partnerships that enable larger, more systemic solutions that one company working alone could never achieve. From climate and energy solutions like the Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA), to water stewardship efforts like the California Water Action Collaborative (CWAC) to tackling plastic waste across the value chain with the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, our efforts to join many stakeholders in pre-competitive arrangements is a critical part of how we will innovate and accelerate progress, and make a bigger overall impact. 
A great example is joining the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation’s Circular Economy 100, a pre-competitive innovation program established to enable organizations to realize their circular economy ambitions faster. It brings together corporations, governments and cities, academic institutions, emerging innovators and affiliates in a unique  multi-stakeholder platform. Another example of collaboration is our Taicang plant 
in China. Taicang was the first site to adopt the Green 
Supply Chain Index (GSCI) and Blue Map APPA to 
manage suppliers’ environmental performance. The 
team spearheaded a pilot of an end-to-end green 
supply chain effort in partnership with the China 
Institute of Public Environment Affairs (IPE), and 
later conducted a green supply chain workshop in 
April 2019 to share best practices with representatives 
from suppliers, customers, our plants and local 
businesses. These best-in-class sustainable practices 
were published on the IPE website. Creating Circular Economies SOCIETY
We’re committed to making an 
impact on society by forming 
the right partnerships that 
enable larger, more systemic 
solutions.
174“Addressing plastic in our oceans, 
rivers and land is everyone’s 
responsibility — including the companies that use much of the plastic in the world today. It’s a complex issue with no one-size-fits-all solution, and will require partnership with many stakeholders to make progress on long-term systemic changes.” 
DAVID TAYLOR,   
Chairman of the Board, President 
and Chief Executive Officer
Solving the plastic waste issue requires unprecedented 
levels of investment, novel partnerships and accelerated innovation — the kind that harness free market forces and scalable solutions as powerful engines of growth. That’s why we’ve been working alongside many others in the industry to take action across the entire ecosystem — from package design to collection and sorting to recycling innovation to fostering end markets. Only by working together will we unleash the circular economy of plastics.Investing in Recycling Infrastructure
 In 2019 we joined more than 40 companies that make plastic, use plastic in their products and packaging, and those who recycle and manage plastic waste to form The Alliance to End Plastic Waste. Our CEO  David Taylor took the lead to serve as the first board chair of the new alliance, helping form the not-for-profit organization that plans to invest $1.5 billion  over the next five years to help end plastic waste in  
the environment.
Research shows that nearly 80% of the plastic in 
oceans begins as litter on land, the vast majority of which travels to the sea down one of ten major rivers around the world — eight are located in Asia, and two are in Africa. Many of these rivers run through densely populated areas that lack suitable waste collection and recycling infrastructure. The alliance supports an array of projects and partnerships that focus on solutions in four core areas: infrastructure, innovation, education and clean up, with particular emphasis where the need is most urgent in Southeast Asia. Coming together in an unprecedented alliance, member companies and organizations span the globe. In addition to providing financial support, member companies are contributing logistics capabilities, expertise in recapturing and recycling used plastics and the ability to jointly create end markets that will help bring plastic further into the circular economy. Keeping Plastic Waste  
Out of the Environment 
The Alliance to end plastic waste 
is the foremost CEO-driven 
international organization focused 
on bringing together industry, 
government, communities and  
civil society in the fight to  
end plastic waste. SOCIETY
175Investing in Recycling Infrastructure
We are one of the leading corporations to commit 
funding to Circulate Capital, an investment 
management firm launched in 2018 dedicated to 
incubating and financing companies and infrastructure 
that prevent ocean plastic in South and Southeast 
Asia. In May 2019, Circulate Capital announced a 
blended finance partnership with the U.S. Agency for 
International Development (USAID) to combat ocean 
plastic pollution. Through this new agreement, USAID 
will provide a $35 million, 50% loan-portfolio guarantee 
through the Development Credit Authority (DCA) 
to incentivize private capital investment and new 
business development in the recycling value chain in 
South and Southeast Asia. The public sector support 
from the USAID partnership enhances the private 
sector support that Circulate Capital has received 
to combat ocean plastic, which is more than $100 
million committed by the world’s leading corporations, 
including the Company, PepsiCo, Dow, Danone, 
Unilever and The Coca-Cola Company. At least 50% of 
the total investments covered by the USAID guarantee 
will be used for loans in Indonesia, Philippines, 
Vietnam and Sri Lanka where USAID’s Municipal Waste 
Recycling Program supports local partners in reducing 
ocean plastic pollution. In 2017, our sustainable packaging expert Gian 
deBelder kicked off a coalition of companies to 
pioneer the Holy Grail project under the Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation’s New Plastics Economy 
Pioneering Projects mantle. The Holy Grail of recycling 
is a collaborative effort designed to solve one of the 
largest obstacles facing plastic recycling: ineffective 
sorting at recycling facilities. The project investigated 
how tagging of packaging can have a drastic impact 
on more accurate sorting and high-quality recycling 
via tracers and digital watermarks embedded in the 
plastic. Improved sorting can improve both the quality 
and quantity of recycled material on the market, which 
would mean more plastics go back to the marketplace 
and bring value instead of becoming waste. 
Over the past three years, we and our coalition 
partners have invested expertise and resources in 
the Holy Grail project to devise a more consistent 
and scalable tagging system across all packages. 
Project Holy Grail proved the value of tracer and 
digital watermark technologies, a crucial step in 
determining the best direction for establishing a 
universal method for faster processing and better 
results. By working with dozens of companies across 
the whole value chain, including machine vendors, 
technology providers, material producers, packaging 
manufacturers, brands, retailers and recyclers, the 
Holy Grail project was able to use the technologies 
in tests, making progress toward the entire industry 
establishing and adhering to a standardized method. 
In the Packaging Europe Sustainability Awards in 
September, Project Holy Grail won both the Overall Sustainability Awards 2019 trophy along with honors 
for the Driving the Circular Economy category.
In partnership with the Department of Education 
and NGO World Vision, P&G Philippines has launched 
Pag-asa sa Basura, (Hope in Waste), a school-based 
waste collection and recycling program to drive 
sachet and plastic collection for upcycling in schools 
in Metro Manila. The program aims to organize and 
strengthen the solid waste management committees 
of these schools and operationalize sustainable plastic 
collection systems. By the end of its first year, we hope 
to collect one million sachets.
 In India, we have put in place a system to recover and 
recycle packaging waste in several communities near 
our operations. We are working with various waste 
management companies and the industry to collect, 
segregate and recycle plastic packaging waste. We 
have already started in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh 
and Gujarat and will expand to eight more states  
within 2019.Keeping Plastic Waste  
Out of the Environment 
Project Holy Grail won the Overall 
Sustainability Awards 2019 
Packaging Europe Sustainability 
Awards in 2019.SOCIETY
176Reclaiming Material  
and Fostering End Markets
 PureCycle  
While looking for more ways to incorporate additional 
recycled content (PCR) into our products and packages, we found the availability of high-quality recycled polypropylene (rPP) was limited. Company scientist Dr. John Layman invented a breakthrough technology that uses a solvent and extraction process to remove color, odor and contaminants from used polypropylene to restore it to ultra-pure recycled resin. To drive scale, we licensed the technology to PureCycle Technologies, which completed construction of its feedstock evaluation unit in July 2019 and plans to open its full-scale production plant in Ohio in 2021. The full-scale plant is expected to produce more than 105 million pounds of virgin-like polypropylene per year, fostering a substantial increase in demand for waste polypropylene and thus providing alternatives to landfilling or exporting plastic waste. Many consumer packaged goods companies have already committed to purchase the material starting in 2021. In fact, the demand is so great that PureCycle has sold out of all plant one production for the next 20 years and is planning to build a second plant in Europe. 
Flexible packaging refers to any lightweight plastic 
packaging that is able to flex or wrap, such as plastic pouches, overwraps and bags. Today, flexible plastic is used in a variety of packages for foods, personal care and household goods, but not widely collected for recycling. Current consumer take-back programs for flexibles at retail storefronts in the U.S. and Europe see low participation rates. Meanwhile, residential recycling programs experience high levels of contamination and increased mechanical processing costs when consumers incorrectly attempt to recycle film in their curbside bins. Much of this material is currently sent to landfills due to lack of consumer education, lack of collection and processing infrastructure, and lack of established end markets. We have joined several collaborative efforts to identify and test a range of solutions that can then be scaled up to accelerate flexible packaging into a true circular economy.
Materials Recovery for the Future (MRFF)  
We joined MRFF as one of the early supporters who saw the potential to test in-market and scale the best solutions to increase household recycling of flexible packaging for eventual sale as PCR. MRFF brings together leading companies across the value chain to fund and collaborate on a pilot to demonstrate the economic and technical feasibility of adding flexible plastic packaging to single-stream household recycling. The pilot was launched in Pennsylvania in the summer of 2019 to demonstrate how to effectively, efficiently and profitably recycle flexible packaging by:
• Reducing labor costs at MRFFs• Increasing the quality of paper bales
• C reating a new source of revenue with
the “rFlex” bale
• E liminating the need to dispose of flexible
packaging in landfillsMRFF started in September 2019 and will gradually 
scale up to reach 200,000 h ouseholds by earl y 2020. 
The households must be equipped with covered 
rolling carts to keep the lightweight flexible material 
dry and stop it from blowing away, so we and others 
have worked with The Recycling Partnership to offer 
grants to local PA communities to purchase covered 
carts. The local recycling facility, JP Mascaro, has 
upgraded their equipment to enable efficient 
sorting and baling  of the material. Keeping Plastic Waste  
Out of the EnvironmentSOCIETY
We invented a breakthrough 
technology that restores used 
polypropylene to an ultra-pure 
recycled resin.
177Reclaiming Material and Fostering 
End Markets (continued)
The Recycling Partnership Film and Flexibles 
Taskforce  
The Recycling Partnership (recyclingpartnership.org) is a national nonprofit organization that leverages corporate partner funding to transform recycling in states, cities and communities all across America. It’s the only organization in the country that engages the full recycling supply chain from the corporations that manufacture products and packaging to local governments charged with recycling, to industry end markets, haulers, material recovery facilities and converters. We are one of five companies serving as anchor funders and advisors for The Recycling Partnership’s new Film and Flexible Taskforce formed in 2019. The taskforce will employ a four-step framework that includes data gathering and benchmarking, goal setting, establishment of pilot programs and determining the means for long-term scalability. Initial data gathering will include capture rate studies, consumer insights research and analysis of end markets, among other areas. Goal setting and pilot programs will include partnerships with cities and community recycling systems over a multi-year period, as well as piloting pathways of feedstock for potential chemical recycling solutions.CEFLEX  
CEFLEX is a collaborative effort underway across Europe working to identify solutions. We continue to participate in CEFLEX (Circular Economy for Flexible Packaging) and have done since 2016. CEFLEX is on a Mission Circular: , the goal of which is to collect all flexible packaging in Europe by 2025 and for 80% of it to be recycled and be returned to the economy. The CEFLEX project is a true cross-value chain collaboration where more than 130 companies and organizations have committed to implementing the actions to realize the circular economy for flexible packaging. The big focus is on redesigning flexible packaging (enabled by the CEFLEX design guidelines) and creating sustainable end markets, both in and outside packaging applications. A short video providing more background is below.
Aligning consistent metrics, common goals  
When it comes to tackling plastic waste, we share the 
World Wildlife Fund’s No Plastic in Nature by 2030 vision and agree that a clear roadmap with measurable, concrete action steps is necessary to achieve our goals. That’s why we are one of the six Principle Member companies to join ReSource: Plastic, WWF’s newest global initiative bringing companies together to help solve the plastic waste issue. Introduced in May 2019, Resource: Plastic maps out a systems approach in partnership with many stakeholders — common metrics, best practices, accountability and more. WWF hopes to accelerate change at an even faster rate  and identify new solutions to old problems facing  the planet.
We are proud to be a founding signatory of the WRAP 
UK Plastics Pact, a bold and unique initiative that aims to transform the UK’s plastic system by 2025. By bringing together the entire plastics value chain behind a common set of ambitious, collective targets, it will move the UK toward a system that keeps plastic in the economy and out of the environment. It will encompass innovation, research and new business models to rethink and redesign what packaging we  as an industry put in the market and how we can all encourage greater reuse of packaging. Launched on April 26, 2018, the pact now has more than 100 UK organisations from across the entire plastics value chain signed up as members and supporters.
Keeping Plastic Waste  
Out of the Environment 
We are a founding 
signatory of the WRAP 
UK Plastics Pact, an 
initiative that aims to 
transform the UK’s 
plastic system by 2025. SOCIETY
178Accelerating the growth and development 
of renewable energy can happen if industries join joins forces to scale progress. That’s why we are actively engaged in joint initiatives to help advance broader, collaborative efforts on climate change.
We participated in the 2019 global Climate Change 
Conference, held under the auspices of the UN organization UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change). The global summit, called COP24 (24th Conference of the Parties), is the biggest international forum to tackle the issue of climate change. We joined the round table discussion on UN Sustainable Development Goal 12: ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. The objective of the session was to bring together perspectives from government representatives,  cities, NGOs and businesses to initiate a debate on  the role of these actors to accelerating the climate change agenda. 
Diaper Recycling 
Pampers is the world’s first diaper brand to use new advanced technology to recycle diapers — all diaper brands — to high-value applications and give used diapers a new life. The unique technology was invented by FaterSmart, a joint venture of the Company and Angelini in Italy, and is leading the way in complete recycling systems for used absorbent hygiene products (AHPs) such as baby diapers. The technology is already proven and live in Italy, operating at industrial scale and capable of recycling 10,000 tons of used AHP per year. This corresponds to the amount of AHP waste generate d by approximatel y one 
million people. The technology  is 
creating secondary raw materials 
that can be used in new products  
and application,  giving u sed di apers 
a new life.
We are committed  to rolling AHP  
recycling out globally to max imize 
the positive impact this technology 
can have. For example, we s tarted 
a pilot program  in the Netherlands 
in partnership with the Munic ipality 
of Amsterdam an d others. We 
placed smart b ins near day-ca re 
centers and dru g stores in tw o 
neighborhoods of Amsterdam. 
Parents register ed to the prog ram via 
a new Pampers re cycling app. Since 
January 2019, mo re than 400 families 
have registered and joined the 
program. In tot al, more than 2 0 tons of 
diaper waste — mo re 
than 100,000 di apers — have 
been collected f or recycling. I t is 
recognized and funded by the E U 
through the Bio -Based Industries 
(BBI) project ca lled EMBRACED.  And 
we are explorin g how to scale t his even 
further. We are co mmitted to bei ng 
operational in ten cities by 2 030. Responsible ConsumptionSOCIETY
More than 100,000
diapers have been collected for  
recycling through the Diaper 
Recycling Pilot Program
179Country # Priority Basins Priority Basin
China 3Xuanhui He  
Hai He Delta  
Tuo Jiang
Mexico 3Moctezuma  
Laja  
Lerma/Salamanca
USA 5Lower Bear/Malad, Great Salt Lake  
Lower American, Lower Sacramento/Putah 
Calleguas
India 3Sutlej  
Yamuna 1  
Musi/Aler
Saudi 
Arabia2Saudi Arabia West Coast 5  
Persian Gulf Western Coast 2
Spain 1 Segura
Turkey 1 KocaeliProtecting Water for 
People and Nature 
Growing pressure on water resources in 
many regions has the potential to impact 
suppliers, manufacturing sites and the 
communities we serve. This inspired our 
renewed focus on water into the next decade 
of our goals as we aim to protect water for 
people and nature in priority basins.
Across the world, and even within countries, there  
is a diverse mix of landscapes, cultures, economies 
and climates that make water issues complex and 
require solutions unique to each river basin. That 
is why we embarked on a data-based water risk 
assessment with expert partners at WRI, WWF and 
ERM to identify the areas of the world we should focus 
on for maximum positive impact. Using data from the 
WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and other sources, 18 
priority basins across seven countries were identified 
by understanding where our consumers, suppliers  
and facilities are most exposed to current and future 
water risks. SOCIETY
180Protecting Water  
for People and Nature 
Progress
Now that we’ve identified where our consumers, 
suppliers and facilities could be most impacted by 
current and future water risks, it’s time to identify 
shared water challenges, potential partners and 
viable solutions for each basin. We’ve already made 
progress toward understanding the situation in each 
of these unique areas and will learn even more in 2020 
after completing the Alliance for Water Stewardship 
(AWS) Standard 1.0 steps 1-3 at our Tier 3 facilities (see 
page 12 of v.1.0 for more details). Based on what we’ve 
learned so far, we’ve already moved forward with local 
engagement in the U.S. and Mexico.United States  
Five of our 18 priority basins are in the western U.S., and 
the majority of those are in the state of California. There 
is already a lot of great work going on within the state 
to protect and enhance California’s water resources. 
In order to contribute to these efforts, we joined a 
platform of diverse stakeholders who came together 
to pursue collective action projects that will improve 
water security in California. The California Water 
Action Collaborative (CWAC) was created in 2014 and is 
focused on building social capital for improved water 
management, returning water to natural systems 
and driving corporate water stewardship aligned with 
state and global water stewardship goals. We hope 
that being a part of this multi-sector organization will 
enable us to make a meaningful impact in our priority 
basins in California.Mexico  
Three of our 18 priority basins we are focusing on this 
next decade are in central Mexico, including the basin 
that surrounds Mexico City. Over the past year, P&G has 
engaged with local experts at The Nature Conservancy 
to learn more about the water issues and potential 
solutions in and around the city. As a first step towards 
being part of the solution, we joined the Mexico City 
Water Fund: Agua Capital. Agua Capital was created 
in 2018 as an innovative platform for collaboration 
among different sectors to contribute to the water 
security of Mexico City with emphasis on nature-based 
solutions. P&G, along with the other board members, 
intend to address the overexploitation of the aquifers, 
inefficiencies in infrastructure and operations, flood 
management and improvement of wastewater 
treatment and reuse.
We’ve come a long way already in our water 
stewardship journey, and will go even further working 
in collaboration with others to solve the challenges 
facing our priority basins. We look forward to 
partnering with others to work toward our goal to 
protect water for people and nature in priority basins 
and sharing our progress along the way. 
SOCIETY
181It is predicted that by 2030, there will be a 40% gap 
in global water supply and demand. Pressure on 
water resources is growing, and some cities, like Cape 
Town, South Africa have already experienced Day 
Zero: a day when the city nearly ran out of water and 
the government required all four million residents to 
reduce their water use at home to 50L per person. 
Not only is water essential for the daily operation of 
our facilities and production, it is also an integral part 
of many of our products in the home. Whether it’s 
bathing, laundry, cooking or dishes, homes use 10% 
of the global water supply, reinforcing the need for 
rethinking the future of water consumption.
Homes in the U.S. can use up to 500 liters of water per 
day, per person — a rate that is not sustainable. Several 
years ago, we started exploring innovations in waterless 
and water-efficient products, purification systems and 
experience platforms. During the World Economic 
Forum Davos in January 2019, we led a multi-faceted 
discussion to explore whether homes could run at 50 
liters and still feel like 500 liters, unlocking s olution s for 
sustaina ble, affordable living.T
he 50 Liter Home Concept, spearheaded by the 
Company, is bringing together companies, policy-
makers and communities to develop and scale innovations for the home that help solve the urban water crisis. It is an ambitious undertaking that requires cross-sector collaboration to harness diverse expertise and resources, like home fixtures and appliance makers, city governments, utilities, tech partners, NGOs, real estate developers, engineering, home design and more. Reinventing Water 
for Urban Living SOCIETY
Major cities around  
the world face the prospects 
of a water crisis, and 14 of  
the world’s 20 largest cities  
are already experiencing  
water scarcity.
Most homes in the U.S. use up to  
500 liters 
of water per day, per person —   
a rate that is not sustainable. 
182Employees
Engage and equip P&G employees to  
build sustainability thinking and practices 
into their work and their communities.
183Employees 
Ambition 2030 Leadership Award
Leadership accountability is critical to our Ambition 
2030 goals, as it is only by making sustainability an integral part of how we deliver business results that we’ll be able to achieve our goals. We want to ensure that sustainability is built in, not bolted on. To recognize this effort, we created a new Ambition 2030 Leadership Award which acknowledges the leadership and commitment required to deliver meaningful results in the area of sustainability. The award will recognize business leaders at our Band 5 or 6 level who have contributed to the significant advancement of our Ambition 2030 goals in one or more of our four  core focus areas: brands, employees, supply chain  and society. 
Earth Week Inspires Action
Across the world, we organized a range of Earth Week 2019 volunteer activities designed to raise awareness and take action to reduce our environmental footprint and bring about a healthy planet. Here are some highlights:
• Our Taicang plant successfully engaged employeesvia three days of sitewide activities. Employeesparticipated in group discussions to identify newideas for meeting site sustainability goals, a “greencorner” photo sharing program where employeescould upload their nature photos to WeChat, and afishing outing in the site’s natural clean pond. In thisprogram, employees participated in sustainabilityactivities for energy, water and waste savings in thesite’s daily operation.• All our sites across Northern Europe participatedin a variety of activities to remind employees of oursustainability efforts and reinforce the idea thatsmall changes can make a world of difference underthe theme of Sustainability at Scale. This year, ourNorthern Europe Head Office in Weybridge UKpartnered with Do Nation, a start-up company with amission to make people live a little bit greener everyday. Together we ran a three-month program—fromFebruary to April —that saw employees pledge tomake their daily routines more sustainable. As resultof employees’ collective commitments, we savedmore than 38,900 tons of carbon.EMPLOYEES
We want to ensure that 
sustainability is built in, 
not bolted on.
184Employees 
Gardens Spring Up at Hair Care Plants 
Inspired by our recent Kew Gardens partnership and 
in line with the Ambition 2030 Corporate goal to “engage, equip and reward employees for building sustainability thinking and practices into their everyday work,” we are leveraging our scale by creating gardens in all our manufacturing sites. These gardens support sustainability-related challenges like enabling pollination, protection of native species, and water conservation. We are leveraging the current efforts of gardening, landscaping and maintenance to create a positive sustainable impact for our people, brands and nature while beautifying our sites. 
Among our accomplishments this year:
• Planting 16,000 square meters of beautiful gardens in
all our Hair Care plants that are sustainably built withreused materials and recycled water.
• Actively tackling pollination issues, protection ofnative plants and water conservation.
• Creating a win-win model of sustainability andbeautification that drives a positive impact in ourpeople and brands.
• Bringing our people closer to the themes ofbiodiversity, native plants and elevating topics suchas pollination around a brand context (e.g, plantingingredients used in our products).
• Growing native plants even at our sites located inwater-stressed regions like Dammam in Saudi Arabia,Mariscala in Mexico and Port Qasim in Pakistan.Community Volunteers Educate and 
Inspire Action
Our North Africa and Levant region have partnered 
with Youth Think Green (YTG) NGO to take action in the community, working with young people on a range of environmental activities: 
• Preparing small pots of green herbs and flowers thatkids could take home for their gardens.
• Raising awareness around ways to prevent oceanplastic waste with an upcycling activity, like takingused plastic bottles and making them into toys, pencilcases, napkin boxes and mobile hangers.
• Embracing the culture of renewable energy byreviewing how to calculate a base for a solar panelsystem and make-your-own solar-powered mobilecharger.
Helping young people understand the importance of sorting waste and making neighborhoods cleaner are the objectives of Clean Earth. This new program launched in Poland and enabled employees to visit local help educate students on these topics. They joined with students and teachers to collect and sort litter from local parks, playgrounds and streets. More cleaning days are planned as well as expansion into the Czech Republic and Hungary. Positive Employee Survey Results
In March 2019, more than 80% of employees declared they are contributing to the Company’s sustainability efforts in our annual employee survey. This percentage increased more than five points compared to 2018. Many employees provided perspective that they value the Company’s work in the space and welcome the chance to put more effort into where we make the greatest difference: our brand innovations and corporate partnerships. EMPLOYEES
More than 80%
of employees declared 
they are contributing  
to the Company’s 
sustainability efforts.
185Tracking Our Progress
Health and Safety
The health and safety of our employees and our 
contractor partners is a foundational to the Company 
and directly linked to our core values. 
•Nothing we do is worth getting hurt
•Safety can be managed
•Every injury and illness can and should be prevented
•Safety is everyone’s responsibility
The Company tracks our total injury rate (TIR) and lost 
work day case rate (LWDC). TIR includes any injury that 
requires medical treatment beyond first aid, including 
work restrictions. LWDC is a subset of all injuries that 
were serious enough to result in the individual missing 
the next assigned work shift. Our TIR target for both 
employees and contractors is 0.35 injuries per 200,000 
hrs. No targets are set for LWDC rates. To achieve these 
results, we have implemented an integrated Health, 
Safety and Environmental program. This program sets 
expectations that enable evaluation of each site’s  
leadership involvement, behavior and culture, 
equipment design and maintenance standards, and 
training and procedures. We specifically focus on 
life-safety critical systems such as electrical safety, 
confined space entry, fall prevention/protection, 
material handling and isolation of hazardous energy. 
The TIR and LWDC rate results are summarized in the 
charts to the right.0.25
0.230.24 2018
20172019Total Incident Rate
(Injury and illness per 100 employees)
0.14
0.120.13 2018
20172019Total Lost Work Day Case Rate
(Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees)
The health and safety of 
our employees and our 
contractor partners is a 
foundational to the Company 
and directly linked to our 
core values. 
186We have more than 43 manufacturing plants 
and technical centers that are celebrating 
more than one million safe work hours 
without a lost workday injury.
Audit Programs
Our internal HSE audit program is designed to 
ensure sites are complying with both local regulatory 
requirements as well as corporate polices, standards 
and procedures. These audits are completed at all 
plants, innovation centers and distribution centers 
worldwide. Recently, we modified the audit program 
to eliminate numerical scores and move to identifying 
specific findings and classifying those findings as critical, 
major or minor. All findings are tracked to closure by 
the corporate HSE. The fundamental philosophy is to 
use the standards worldwide, implemented by trained 
HSE leaders and audited each year using a consistent, 
comprehensive approach. Audits measure performance 
against mandatory standards and operating procedures. 
The target is to have no critical findings and continually 
reduce the number of major or minor findings. This year, 
96% of the sites were assessed. 
96%
97%99% 2018
20172019Sites Conducting Annual Audits
(Percentage)Manufacturing Site Safe Hours* GBU Region
Ibadan 12,000,000 Fabric and Home Care IMEA
Takasaki 7,400,000 Fabric and Home Care Asia
Dammam 7,100,000 Beauty IMEA
Boryspil 7,000,000 Baby, Feminine and Family Care Europe
Xiqing 6,300,000 Beauty Asia
Technical Center Safe Hours* GBU Region
Brussels Innovation Center 7,200,000 Technical Center Europe
Singapore Innovation Center 3,000,000 Technical Center Asia
Kronberg Innovation Center 2,500,000 Technical Center Europe
London Innovation Center 2,400,000 Technical Center Europe
Newcastle Innovation Center 2,100,000 Technical Center Europe*Rounded down to the nearest 100,000Top 5 Sites with the Highest Number of Employee Safe Working HoursTracking our Progress
187Tracking Our Progress
Compliance with Laws  
and Regulations
There are numerous health, safety and environmental 
requirements worldwide. Plants are subject to safety 
rules and emission limits with operating requirements 
that may be embodied in sources such as statutes, 
regulations, laws and permits. It is our intent to 
comply with both the letter and the spirit of statutes, 
regulations, laws and permit requirements. Identified 
compliance issues are treated seriously, and all 
noncompliance matters are resolved as expeditiously  
as possible.
ViolationNumber 
of NOVsFines
Water-Based 9 $11,064
Air-Based 8 $3,466
Solid-Waste-Based 4 $2,700
Paperwork 0 $0
Transportation-Based 4 $0
Other 4 $0
Worker Safety 11 $44,830
Total 40 $62,060Notices of Violation
We continually strive for zero notices or penalties. The charts below summarize data from the last three years and provide perspective on notices of violation (NOVs) received during FY18/19. Note, several fines are still under review but are included in the total numbers.
A breakdown of NOVs is provided below:
Year Number Fines
2019 40 $62,060
2018 17 $249,430
2017 24 $102,804
188Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Volatile Organic Compounds
1.6
1.71.6
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
.15
.18.14
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Particulate Matter (PM)
1.0
1.81.8
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.5
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.2Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Volatile Organic Compounds
1.6
1.71.6
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
.15
.18.14
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Particulate Matter (PM)
1.0
1.81.8
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.5
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.2Air Emissions
Each site assesses total suspended particulates, 
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), carbon 
monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulfur 
oxides (SOX). The chart below summarizes data from 
the last three years.Global Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Volatile Organic Compounds
1.6
1.71.6
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
.15
.18.14
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Particulate Matter (PM)
1.0
1.81.8
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.5
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.2Tracking our ProgressGlobal Air Emissions
Thousands of metric tons
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Volatile Organic Compounds
1.6
1.71.6
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Sulfur Oxide (SOx)
.15
.18.14
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Particulate Matter (PM)
1.0
1.81.8
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
2.4
2.52.5
FY18/19
FY17/18
FY16/17Carbon Monoxide (CO)
2.0
2.22.2
189Awards and Recognitions 
LEED
We are committed to designing sustainability into our 
facilities, including pursuing LEED certification for all 
new facilities. We now have 36 projects sites with LEED 
Silver or Gold certification.Some recent projects include our Amiens distribution 
facility (first P&G LEED facility in France), Albany 
Georgia (applying sustainable design principles as they 
rebuild from a tornado), and our new greenfield site in 
Tabler Station West Virginie which received multiple 
LEED Silver certifications. We are also very proud of 
our SK-II production site in Shiga, Japan which was 
awarded LEED Silver under the new LEEDv4 standard, 
the first manufacturing site (from P&G or any other 
company) in Japan to achieve this honor.Location Gold Silver
Albany, GA, U.S. 1*
Amiens, France 1
Ben Cat, Vietnam 2
Box Elder, UT, U.S. 2*
Cabuyao, Philippines 1
Cincinnati, OH, U.S. 2
Cruz, Brazil 1
Greensboro, NC, U.S. 1
Budapest / Gyongyos, Hungary 3
Guangzhou, China 1 1
Hyderabad, India 1 2
Jakarta, Indonesia 4
Lagos, Nigeria 2
Singapore 1
Tabler Station, WV, U.S. 2
Taicang, China 1 3
Total 4 32Box ElderCincinnati 
Greensboro Tabler Station
Cruz LagosGyongyos
HyderabadTaicang
Guangzhou
CabuyaoBen Cat
Singapore
JakartaAlbany Amiens
*Represents a LEED v4 Certification at this location.
190Environmental Resource and Waste Summary
The table below reports environmental statistics for Manufacturing Operations in our Global Business Units, Technical Centers and Distribution Centers.
Totals (absolute units x 1,000) 2019 Global Business Unit Detail1 (absolute units x 1,000)
2019 2018 2017Baby, Feminine 
and Family Care BeautyFabric and  
Home Care Grooming Health Care Other
Production  (metric tons)
Finished Products Manufactured215,175 15,144 14,640 2,822 1,812 9,880 174 487 N/A
Raw Materials from Recycled Sources3674 633 676
Manufacturing Waste  (metric tons)
Solid Waste Generated 655 624 632 254 71 233 34 35 27
% Recycled/Reused Waste 95.8% 94% 92.6% 94.1% 97.6% 96% 100% 100% 94%
% Disposed — Hazardous 0.4% 0.4% 0.5% 0.0% 0.3% 0.8% 0.0% 0.0% 2.1%
% Disposed — Non-Hazardous 3.8% 5.6% 6.9% 5.9% 2.1% 3.2% 0.0% 0.0% 3.9%
Other Waste (metric tons)
Effluents (excluding water)416 21 19 4.26 3.06 7.42 0.25 0.82 0.06
Air Emissions57 8 8 4.82 0.22 1.83 0.04 0.10 0.18
Construction & Demolition Waste 8 19 7 3.17 0 5.04 0.09 0.05 0.14
Energy and Greenhouse Gas  (GHG)
Energy Consumption (gigajoules) 61,176 60,891 60,423 39,307 3,495 11,192 2,424 1,834 2,924
Total GHG Emissions (metric tons)64,050 4,053 4,559 2,539 266 664 198 156 227
Scope 1 — Direct GHG Emissions (metric tons) 2,210 2,143 2,122 1,614 91 321 65 43 76
Scope 2 — Indirect GHG Emissions (metric tons)71,840 1,910 2,437 925 175 343 133 113 151
Biogenic GHG Emissions (metric tons) 57 68 89
Water  (cubic meters)
Water Consumption 63,125 63,666 61,826 38,634 5,525 14,267 1,149 1,601 1,949
1  Baby, Feminine and Family Care includes Baby Care, Feminine Care and Family Care. Beauty includes Beauty Care and 
Personal Beauty Care. Fabric and Home Care includes Fabric Care, Home Care and Chemicals. Grooming includes Blades 
and Razors and Devices. Health Care includes Personal Health Care and Oral Care. Other includes major stand-alone 
offices/technical centers that support the business units and our largest distribution facilities. Numbers do not include 
production from contract manufacturing operations.
2  Estimated from FY18/19 finished product production volumes. Updated to exclude intermediate products that are used as 
raw materials in other P&G categories.3 Data is tracked at a corporate level.
4 Wastewater chemical oxygen demand (COD).
5 Air emissions include particulates, SO2, NOX, CO and VOC.
6 Total GHG emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2. Scope 2 emissions calculated using a market-based method.
7 Market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. Note: Location-based Scope 2 emissions 2019 were 2,544,082 metric tons.
191Global Measurement and  
Additional Operational Data
2020 Goal Measurement Systems
We go to great lengths to ensure rigor, accuracy 
and transparency in our reporting. Below, we share 
additional information on some of our 2020 Goal 
Measurement Systems to help ensure clarity and 
transparency on the data we are reporting.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
For the purposes of monitoring progress against our  
goal and listing emissions levels in charts and graphs, 
we utilize market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. The 
WRI/WBCSD GHG accounting protocol provides 
additional perspective on market-based versus 
location-based GHG emissions. 
Our GHG emissions data has been verified by  
an external third party, Lloyd’s Register Quality 
Assurance (LRQA).Low-Energy Cycle Machine Washing Loads  
Each year, we carefully review habits and practices 
data to help us assess progress against our low-energy 
washing goal. The objective of this goal is to get 
consumers to use low-energy cycles, and we can play 
a significant role in that by providing detergents with 
outstanding performance in low-energy cycles.  
Our benchmark for qualifying low-energy cycles 
has been 0.4 kWh per wash cycle. Cycles included 
in our tracking are cold cycles in traditional top load 
machines and cold and warm cycles in all HE machines 
(top & front loading).
Packaging Reduction  
The average packaging reduction is calculated using 
products that represent the top 70% (by volume) of the 
categories that have the largest impact on packaging 
use (Fabric Care, Home Care, Baby Care, Feminine Care, 
Family Care, Oral Care, Personal Cleansing Care, Shave 
Prep, Hair Color and Hair Care). While a subset of overall 
data, we believe it is representative of overall corporate data and focuses resources on the biggest SKUs and categories with the biggest impact on packaging. 
We go to great lengths  
to ensure rigor, accuracy 
and transparency in  
our reporting.
192Global Measurement and  
Additional Operational Data
2020 Goal Measurement Systems
Recyclability of Packaging  
For purposes of tracking progress against our goal, a 
package is considered recyclable when there is an 
in-market, at-scale recycling system in place for that 
material type (e.g., collection, sortation, processing 
for end use and established end-market for collected 
material). While we require large-scale systems to 
be in place in at least one location, we do not require 
a minimum percent access or recovery rate per 
package in every country or market for the package 
to be considered recyclable for purposes of tracking 
progress versus our goal.
Paper Packaging  
Data for calculating progress versus our paper 
packaging goal was self-reported by our suppliers.  
The data collected this year covered materials 
procured directly by the Company as well as contractor 
manufacturers and covered more than 95% of our 
global spend.Renewable Energy  
When calculating the renewable energy powering our 
plants, we include the renewable energy level of the 
local electrical grid that provides power to the plant.
Water Conservation  
Our goal to reduce water use in manufacturing 
facilities by 20% per unit of production applies to freshwater consumption, which means freshwater 
intake from the following sources:
• T ap water: water supplied by municipalities or third-
party companies via piping systems or trucks, at anyquality they deliver
•Ground water from site wells
• S urface water: non-brackish as rivers, lakes, creeks,
etc., at any quality they deliver
Venezuela  
Due to current conditions in Venezuela and consistent 
with how we have approached other corporate 
reporting, we have excluded our three facilities in 
Venezuela from the manufacturing data included in 
this report. For transparency, the estimated combined 
data from these three sites within our 2010 baseline 
was energy (353,752 gigajoules), water (233,188 cubic 
meters), and GHG emissions (20,589 metric tons), 
which represents less than 0.5% of the respective 
global footprints. These changes have already been 
incorporated into the baseline restatement. Baseline Restatement  
This year, we adjusted our GHG emissions baseline in 
accordance with the principles in the WRI and WBCSD 
Corporate Standard for Greenhouse Gas Accounting. 
Changes included adjustments for acquisitions and 
divestitures as well as other minor modifications and corrections to historic data. Our original baseline was 
5,466,601 metric tons. Our revised baseline, which we 
will use for calculating progress versus GHG emissions 
reduction goals, is now 5,407,790 metric tons. As 
part of this work, we also updated our baselines for 
energy, water and waste. Original energy baseline was 
67,904,220 gigajoules. It is now 63,755,819 gigajoules. 
Original water baseline was 77,049,114 cubic meters. 
It is now 75,029,004 cubic meters. Original waste 
disposed was 354,563 metric tons. It is now 335,488 
metric tons. The baseline year remains the same: they 
Company’s FY09/10.
193Data in this report covers the period of July 1, 2018 to June 30, 2019. Financial information is given in U.S. dollars. 
Questions related to this report can be directed to mediateam.im@pg.com . This report references  
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016. A GRI Content Index for this report can be found here .