Environmental  
Responsibility Report
2018 Progress Report, Covering Fiscal Year 2017 
Meet Daisy, our latest innovation in material recovery. Daisy disassembles nine different iPhone 
models, so we can recover materials that traditional recyclers cannot—and at higher quality.2
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Page 3  En vironmental Responsibility at Apple
Page 5  Climat e Change
Page 19  R esources
Page 35  S afer Materials  
Page 42  Bet ter Together
Page 47  Appendix A 
Apple’s Operations: Environmental Data
• Facilities Environmental Performance Indicators • Product Environmental Performance Indicators• Scopes 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions Breakdown• Fiscal Year 2017 Natural Gas and Electricity Use
Page 52  Appendix B
Data Center Energy Supplement
Page 59  Appendix C 
Assurance and Review Statements
•  Cor porate energy, carbon, waste and water data (Bureau Veritas)
• Product life cycle carbon footprint (Fraunhofer Institute)
•  Su pplier clean energy program (Bureau Veritas) 
• Fiber footprint (Fraunhofer Institute)• Packaging plastic footprint (Fraunhofer Institute)
Page 75  Appendix D 
Environmental Health and Safety Policy Statement 3
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Apple’s mission has never wavered. We are here to change the world. 
It’s what inspires the amazing products and services that reach billions 
of people around the globe. It’s what drives us to relentlessly push the 
boundaries of innovation and design. And it’s why we continuously strive 
to do more with less—reducing our impact on the Earth we all share, 
while expanding and redefining the possibilities ahead.
Our 11th annual Environmental Responsibility Report covers fiscal year 
2017, and highlights the progress we’ve made in meeting our environmental 
objectives. The challenges are complex, but the philosophy is simple: Apply 
the same innovation that goes into making our products. Today, we remain focused on three priorities where we and our stakeholders believe Apple 
can make the biggest difference:
• Climate change: Reduce our impact on climate change by using 
renewable energy sources and driving energy efficiency in our products, 
facilities, and supply chain. 
• Resources: Conserve precious resources so we all can thrive. 
• Safer materials: Pioneer the use of safer materials in our products 
and processes. 
In each of these key areas, we set ambitious but measurable goals, then 
develop smart solutions to meet them. Our work to reduce our greenhouse 
gas emissions is a great example. 
More than a decade ago, we started to transition our electricity use 
to renewable sources. Today, we’re proud to power 100 percent of 
our operations around the world with 100 percent renewable energy. 
That means every Apple data center, retail store, corporate office, and 
colocation facility in 43 countries around the world now runs on clean power. In the process, we’ve paved the way for other companies and 
organizations to purchase renewable energy and transition their own 
operations to greener power.
Our work is led by Lisa Jackson, 
Apple’s Vice President of Environment, 
Policy and Social Initiatives, reporting directly to CEO Tim Cook. The Office of Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives works with teams across Apple to set strategy, engage stakeholders, and communicate progress. Our integrated approach means that decisions about Apple values, including environment,  
are reviewed and supported at the  
highest levels of the company.Environmental Responsibility at Apple 
T o ask less of the planet,  
we ask more of ourselves. 4
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017As we worked to reach 100 percent renewable energy for our own 
operations, we began to challenge our suppliers to make the same 
transition to clean energy through our supplier clean energy program. 
As of April 2018, 23 manufacturers have committed to power all of 
their Apple operations with 100 percent renewable energy. And we’re 
well on our way to meeting our goal of putting 4 gigawatts of new 
clean energy online in our supply chain by 2020.
We also made progress toward our goal to one day make new products 
without mining new materials from the earth. We hope to get there by 
using only recycled or renewable materials in our products, and returning an equivalent amount of material back to the market, to be used by us 
or others. 
Like everything at Apple, this effort is driven by innovation. We’ve 
developed a brand-new robot, Daisy, capable of disassembling nine 
versions of iPhone, and sorting their high-quality components for 
recycling. To help keep Daisy busy, we’re making it easier than ever 
for customers to recycle their old Apple devices through our new 
Apple GiveBack experience. 
There’s a lot more to our story over the past year. As you read through 
this Environmental Progress Report, we are busy working toward our  
next frontiers in clean energy, materials recovery, and green chemistry. We are proud of our work and look forward to continuing our journey. 
Lisa Jackson  
Vice President, Environment, Policy & Social Initiatives5
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Apple Park is powered by 100 percent 
renewable energy from multiple sources, 
including a 17-megawatt onsite rooftop solar installation and 4 megawatts of biogas fuel cells. The new headquarters even provides clean energy back to the public grid through the use of battery storage and a microgrid during periods of low occupancy.Climate Change
We’re making more of an impact  
by making less of one.  
We proved that 100 percent renewable is 100 percent doable.  
All our facilities worldwide—including Apple offices, retail stores, and  
data centers—are now powered entirely by clean energy. But this is  
just the beginning of how we’re reducing greenhouse gas emissions  
that contribute to climate change. We‘re continuing to go further than  
most companies in measuring our carbon footprint, including manufacturing  
and product use. And we’re making great progress in those areas too.6
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Comprehensive Carbon Footprint
We measure more. So we can do more.
When we measure our carbon footprint, we don’t stop with ourselves.  
We include hundreds of suppliers, millions of customers, and hundreds of 
millions of devices. And we’re always looking for ways to make the biggest 
difference in five major areas: corporate facilities, manufacturing, product 
use, transportation, and end-of-life processing. In 2017, we once again 
reduced our overall carbon footprint to 27.5 million metric tons of greenhouse 
gases (CO₂e). That‘s down from 29.5 million metric tons in 2016. 
Our environmental programs contributed to this decline in our comprehensive 
carbon footprint, including reduced emissions from aluminum manufacturing, 
energy efficiency, and increasing use of clean energy at our facilities and  
in our supply chain. We also refine our product life cycle analysis each year, 
moving from industry-average data to our own data whenever possible. 
(See Appendix A to read more about our life cycle carbon analysis.)
27.5 million metric tons of carbon emissions
77%
 Manufacturing 
39% Integrated circuits/one.numr
24% Aluminum16% Boards and flexes/two.numr12% Other/three.numr
5% Displays4% Onboard electronics/four.numr17%
Product use 
69%  Active/five.numr
19%  Idle/six.numr11%  Sleep/seven.numr1%  Off<1%
End of life
1%
Corporate facilities
4%
Product transportation
Our carbon footprint tells us a lot about how we’re doing and where there are opportunities to go further. For example, 
because aluminum represents almost a quarter of our manufacturing emissions, we developed a program to reduce emissions 
associated with aluminum enclosures.Apple’s carbon footprint7
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Corporate Facilities
100% renewable energy for 100%  
of our facilities.
In 2018, we reached a major milestone: 100 percent of the electricity we use 
at all of our facilities comes from renewable sources. This outcome is the 
result of the relentless innovation that goes into everything we do—investing 
in our own renewable energy projects and supporting industry-leading 
advances along the way. These efforts have lowered emissions from our 
facilities to 1 percent of our comprehensive carbon footprint.
Scope 1 emissions are those greenhouse gases resulting from fuel 
combustion from sources we own or operate—like vehicles or natural gas 
for heating. Scope 2 emissions refer to those resulting from Apple’s use 
of electricity. Renewable energy generates minimal Scope 2 emissions, whereas burning coal, oil, or natural gas to produce electricity releases 
carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Since 
2011, our use of renewable energy has reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions by 54 percent and prevented nearly 2.1 million metric tons of 
CO₂e from entering the atmosphere. That’s equivalent to taking more than 
444,000 cars off the road each year.⁸ Without renewable energy, these 
emissions would have more than tripled since 2011.
Apple’s emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)
Since 2011, Apple has reduced emissions from our offices, data centers, retail stores, 
and fleet vehicles worldwide by 54 percent—even while our energy use more than tripled during this same period.
700,000800,000
600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY20170metric tons CO/two.subse
Default grid emissions: Total emissions if Apple had no renewable energy program
Apple emissions: Emissions after accounting for Apple’s renewable energy programOur facilities include all of our  
offices, stores, and data centers  
in 43 countries. 
 $2.5  billion
After the U.S. withdrew from the  
Paris climate agreement, Apple responded by issuing a $1 billion green bond for environmental projects, bringing our total to $2.5 billion.
Download the 2018 Green Bond 
Report 8
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017How we got to 100 percent.
Beginning January 2018, all of the electricity from our facilities worldwide  
is covered by renewable energy. This is how we did it. 
Energy efficiency. 
The cleanest energy is the energy you never use. That’s why we design  
our facilities for maximum energy efficiency and regularly audit them to 
identify further opportunities for energy optimization. 
We’ve been systematically expanding our energy efficiency programs  
from our Santa Clara Valley buildings in California to our other large 
campuses, including those in Elk Grove and Culver City, California, and in 
Austin, Texas. Efficiency improvements include upgrading to LED lighting, 
retro-commissioning building and lighting controls, and upgrading heating, 
ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems.
And in fiscal year 2017, we conducted a comprehensive lighting and HVAC 
retro-commissioning program throughout our retail stores—resulting in an 
overall electricity savings of 3.7 million kilowatt-hours (kWh) per year from 
the evaluation of nearly 500 operating retail stores around the world.
Altogether, we reduced our energy footprint in fiscal year 2017 by 14.7 million 
kWh and 225,000 therms. Thanks to energy efficiency measures we’ve 
implemented since 2011, we are now cumulatively saving 70 million kWh of 
electricity and over 2.4 million therms of natural gas per year. million   square feet  
In fiscal year 2017, we implemented 
energy efficiency measures in more than 9 million square feet of Apple facilities, with a combined annual electricity use  
of over 300 million kWh—resulting in  
an average energy savings of about  
5 percent.9 
Every time you send an iMessage, make 
a FaceTime call, ask Siri a question, 
stream a song, or share a photo, it takes energy. And those tasks are handled by our data servers running on 100 percent wind, solar, low-impact hydro, or biogas fuel cell power.9
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Renewable energy. 
We seek to create new renewable energy projects whenever possible. As 
of January 2018, approximately 66 percent of the renewable energy Apple 
procures comes from projects that Apple created. And we aim to ultimately 
cover our entire electricity load with Apple-created projects, which include:
• Direct ownership. Where feasible, we produce our own renewable energy 
by building our own renewable energy projects, including solar arrays,  
wind farms, biogas fuel cells, and low-impact hydro generation systems. 
• Dedicated renewable energy contracts.  Where it’s not feasible to build 
our own generation, we sign long-term renewable energy purchase 
contracts, supporting new, local projects that meet our robust renewable 
energy sourcing principles. 
In cases where we need more renewable energy than what’s generated by our Apple-created projects, we directly purchase renewable energy 
from newer projects in nearby markets, or through available utility green 
energy programs. When these options are not available, we are willing to 
procure strong renewable energy credits (RECs) tied to recently constructed 
renewable energy projects, applying the same rigor to these purchases as we do to our Apple-created renewables. When Apple acquires RECs, we require 
that they are Green-e Energy certified, where available, and come from the 
same power grid—and preferably in the same state or country—as the Apple 
facility they support.
Wind Low-impact  
hydroBiogas fuel 
cellSolar10
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY20172011
24%2012
60%2013
73%2014
87%2015
93%2016
96%2017
97%2018
100%2019 +
 100%••••••••••
2011: Our 20-megawatt solar PV project in North Carolina was the first utility-scale 
project built and owned by a non-energy commercial company. We minimized our 
risk by leveraging the 1978 Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA), which we then used for five more projects in North Carolina and Oregon.
2012: We began using Direct Access to purchase renewable energy from  
independent power producers, rather than the local utility for our Oregon and 
California data centers. We also now use it to supply renewables from projects  
we own ourselves: Solar Star Oregon II and California Flats PV.
2013: We worked with the local utility in Reno to create the Nevada Green Rider—  
a regulatory structure that allows us to enter into long-term contracts with new 
renewable energy projects. 
2014: We created a first-of-its-kind joint venture in Sichuan to make an equity 
investment in two 20-megawatt solar PV projects to cover electricity use at our 
Chinese corporate offices, retail stores, and data storage.
2015: In Singapore, where we have a retail store and corporate campus, we put 
solar PV panels on more than 800 rooftops, and used the Singaporean version of 
Direct Access to deliver that power to our facilities.
2016: We identified an economical way to generate new renewable energy in Japan, 
despite its difficult regulatory rules, by installing over 300 solar PV rooftop systems 
connected to the grid using a low-voltage tariff.
2017: We installed 17 megawatts of onsite rooftop solar PV and 4 megawatts of 
biogas fuel cells, along with a microgrid and battery storage, at Apple Park, our  
new corporate campus. 2018: We contracted for renewable energy generation in new markets like India, 
Turkey, Israel, Brazil, and Mexico to cover our remaining loads in those and  
neighboring countries. 2019+: Beyond 2018, we will continue to innovate to expand our use of  
renewable energy as our electricity needs grow. We’ll continue to explore new  
markets and invest in energy storage—an essential element in our transition to 
renewable energy.
*We achieved our 100 percent renewable energy goal beginning January 1, 2018.Key innovations in creating or  
procuring our renewable energy.
Innovation played a key role in how we contracted and built projects to 
help us reach 100 percent renewable energy starting in 2018*.11
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017We apply strong principles for procuring 
renewable energy.
We encounter many legal and regulatory frameworks around the world that 
limit our renewable energy supply options. In each location, we endeavor to 
choose the strongest approach available to us as defined by these guiding 
principles. 
Displacement. We seek to displace more-polluting forms of energy in the 
same electric grid region as our facilities. We accomplish this by having 
Apple-created projects deliver into the grid an amount of renewable energy 
equal to the amount of energy our facilities use from that grid. For less than 
0.5 percent of our load that occurs in difficult renewable energy markets,  
we seek a renewable energy solution in the broader geographic region.
Materiality. We strive to create new clean energy that adds to the energy 
sources already delivering to the grid. This means participating in renewable 
energy projects in a manner that provides material support to the project’s 
success by overcoming financial, regulatory, or other barriers. 
Accountability.  We apply rigor in measuring and tracking our energy supply 
resources, and use third-party registries such as WREGIS and NC-RETS, 
certification programs such as Green-e Energy, and contractual provisions 
to ensure that only Apple takes credit for the renewable energy it generates 
or procures. When no such system exists, we work with industry partners and governmental entities to create them. 
In China, our solar projects produce 
enough energy to power all our offices 
and retail stores in that country. Solar panels are mounted high off the ground to let sunlight shine through, so the grass can grow—and the local yaks  
can eat it.12
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Apple and supplier-created long-term renewable  
energy projects.
To reduce our carbon emissions, Apple and our suppliers are generating and procuring renewable energy.  
The map below represents long term investments into new renewable energy projects supporting Apple facilities, 
manufacturing, and cleaner grids around the world.*
Renewable energy projects • Apple    • Supplier
   
   Project size  • 0–20 MW      • 21–100 MW     • 101+  MWUnited States ChinaWorldwide
To reduce Apple’s own electricity footprint (Scope 2 emissions), we have built or have long-term commitments for renewable 
energy, of  which 62 6 megawatts is operational and another 775 megawatts is under construction. To address emissions from 
manufacturing products,  A pple and our suppliers have invested or procured 1.1 gigawatts of grid-connected projects, with 
another 1.9 gigawatts in development.   These projects apply a mix of clean energy technology—approximately 48 percent wind, 
46 percent solar, 5 percent biomass, and 1 percent  lo w-impact hydro.
*The map does not include REC and Guarantee of Origin purchases, utility clean energy programs, short-term contracts, and projects that are not yet sited.13
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Reworking how we get to work.
Even as we shrink the carbon footprint of Apple’s facilities, we’re continuing 
to look for ways to reduce carbon emissions from business fleet vehicles, 
employee commute, and business travel. Our total transportation emissions 
fell by 3 percent in fiscal year 2017, while our corporate employee head 
count grew by 9 percent.
Where possible, we enable telecommuting to minimize emissions from 
commuting. For example, our At Home Advisor program provides AppleCare 
customer service by Apple employees working from their homes. This 
program avoided nearly 23,000 metric tons of CO₂e emissions in fiscal year 
2017—equal to 13 percent of our employee commute footprint. We also offer our U.S. employees a transit subsidy of up to $100 per month, and we 
grew our coach bus program in Santa Clara Valley and China to reduce use 
of single-occupancy vehicles. With the opening of Apple Park, we added 
700 new electric vehicle charging ports, more than 2000 new campus 
bicycles, and a dedicated transit center. 
Manufacturing
Transforming our manufacturing process 
to reduce emissions.
Apple takes responsibility for its entire carbon footprint, including emissions 
from manufacturing, transporting, and using and recycling our products. 
These emissions are considered Scope 3 emissions, defined as those 
emissions outside of Apple’s direct control. Manufacturing makes up 
77 percent of our carbon footprint. Most of it is due to carbon emissions 
from the electricity used to make the parts in our products. So we’re 
sourcing lower-carbon materials, partnering with suppliers to reduce their 
energy use, and helping them switch to renewable energy. We believe 
that together we can transform the manufacturing process to dramatically 
reduce emissions.
We’re helping our suppliers switch to renewable energy.
Since the electricity used to make our products is the largest contributor to 
our overall carbon footprint, we’re helping our suppliers reduce their energy 
use and transition to new renewable energy sources.
In 2015, we started engaging directly with suppliers to help them reduce 
their energy use. To this end, we conduct audits and train suppliers to 
uncover opportunities for energy efficiency—like replacing outdated or 
inefficient heating, cooling, and lighting systems; repairing compressed air 
leaks; and recovering waste heat. The assessments provide suppliers with a cost-benefit analysis for implementing energy efficiency improvements.  121,000
metric tons CO /two.subse  
business travel8300
metric tons CO/two.subse 
vehicle fleet
172,400
metric tons CO /two.subse 
commute 2017 transportation emissions
We look at the carbon footprint 
 associated with all modes of our 
 employee travel.
Carbon emissions per product (kg)
Our efforts to reduce emissions from 
manufacturing products have resulted in a per product year-over-year decline in carbon emissions.
2011137
127 124 122114
97
90
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 201714
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
We aim to promote continual improvement, build technical capabilities,  
and increase awareness of the environmental and financial benefits of 
energy efficiency. 
Since the inception of this program in 2015, we have engaged with 
48 suppliers at 71 facilities. In 2017, our program implemented energy 
efficiency measures that saved a combined annualized $44.8 million. 
These measures helped save an annualized 320,000 metric tons of CO₂e 
from entering the atmosphere in 2017.
Our efforts go beyond energy efficiency to spur the development and 
procurement of renewable energy within our global supply chain. Partners across our supply chain are installing or investing in sizable solar projects, 
running their factories on 100 percent wind power, and purchasing 
clean energy from reputable utility programs. We’ve also helped develop 
485 megawatts of wind and solar projects to address upstream emissions. 
As part of our clean energy program, Apple and our suppliers will generate 
and procure more than 4 gigawatts of new clean power worldwide by 2020. 
Once completed, this will represent approximately one-third of our current 
manufacturing carbon footprint.4 gigawatts = one-third of our    
manufacturing emissions
By 2020, Apple and our suppliers will 
generate or procure 4 gigawatts of clean energy in our supply chain.  
That’s approximately one-third of our current manufacturing footprint.
Our partner Compal, which assembles 
iPad devices, is constructing rooftop solar on its facilities across China. By the end of 2018, it will achieve its goal of 100 percent renewable energy for Apple production.15
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017As of April 2018, 23 partners have committed to 100 percent renewable 
energy for Apple production: 
• Arkema
• Biel Crystal Manufactory Ltd.• Catcher Technology• Compal Electronics• DSM Engineering Plastics• ECCO Leather• Finisar• Golden Arrow• Ibiden• Jabil• Lens Technology• Luxshare-ICT• Mega Precision• Pegatron• Qorvo• Quadrant• Quanta Computer• Solvay• Sunway Communication• Sunwoda Electronics• Taiyo Ink Mfg. Co.• Wistron• Yuto
In addition to suppliers committed to 100 percent renewable energy for  
Apple production, some have made partial commitments. As of April 2018, 
these commitments represent over 3 gigawatts of new clean energy—well 
on the way to our 4-gigawatt goal. In fact, more than 1 gigawatt is already 
operational and has generated close to 1.9 million kWh of renewable energy 
in fiscal year 2017. This clean energy generation avoided over 1.5 million 
metric tons of CO₂e—roughly equivalent to taking more than 300,000 cars 
off the road each year for the life of the renewable energy projects. 
Our supplier clean energy program is helping us to reduce Apple’s 
manufacturing carbon footprint. To maximize the impact of this program, we use data from our comprehensive carbon footprint to identify and 
prioritize the most energy-intensive commodities. We then engage with 
suppliers to discuss options for transitioning to renewable energy. In 
important manufacturing regions without strong renewable energy markets, 
we work with suppliers to engage local, regional, and national governments 
to ensure our program is aligned with regulatory priorities. This encourages 
the development of policies that will enable scalable renewable energy 
solutions, including the ability for customers to choose their energy source.
Progress toward 4 gigawatts
As of April 2018, 23 suppliers operating in more than 10 different countries have  
committed to 100 percent clean energy for Apple production. Other suppliers  
have also committed to generate or procure clean energy for portions of Apple  
production. In addition, Apple has helped develop 485 megawatts of wind and solar 
projects across six provinces of China to support upstream manufacturing.For more information on how  
our suppliers are fulfilling their renewable energy commitments, download the Program Update  
April 2018
April 2017
0 1 2 3 4 
Operational Committe d Goal16
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
↓2.6  million
Changes to aluminum production and 
suppliers transitioning to renewable energy cut our greenhouse gas  
emissions by 2.6 million metric tons  
in fiscal year 2017.⁹We know the transition to renewable energy can be highly complex. It often 
requires complicated deal structures across many regions with their own 
regulatory requirements. So in 2017, Apple developed the Clean Energy 
Portal, an online platform to help suppliers identify commercially viable 
renewable energy solutions in regions around the world. We will continue to 
share new resources on the Clean Energy Portal, intended to make adoption 
of clean energy in key markets even easier. We continually update policy 
guidance and tools to help suppliers develop commercially viable strategies 
to achieve 100 percent renewable energy.
 
 
 
 
Lowering emissions by focusing on aluminum.
Emissions associated with aluminum manufacturing across all Apple 
products represent 24 percent of our manufacturing carbon footprint.  
So we prioritized aluminum that was smelted using hydroelectricity rather than fossil fuels, and we reengineered our manufacturing process to 
reincorporate the scrap aluminum. As a result, over the past three years 
we’ve reduced emissions associated with every gram of aluminum in  
iPhone by 83 percent. And for the enclosure of the 13-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar, it’s a 47 percent reduction compared to that of the 
previous-generation MacBook Pro.
10
We’re reducing our manufacturing emissions 
by prioritizing aluminum that was smelted 
using hydroelectricity rather than fossil fuels, and we reengineered our manufacturing  
process to reincorporate scrap aluminum.17
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Product Use
Since 2008, we’ve reduced the  
average energy consumed by Apple 
products by 68 percent.11 
When we measure our carbon footprint, we even include the energy 
consumers use to run their devices. And we continue to make 
advancements in our products’ efficiency. For example, iMac consumes  
up to 96 percent less energy in sleep mode than the first generation.  
The 12-inch MacBook uses less than 0.5 watt in sleep mode. And  
you can charge your iPhone X once a day for a year for only 75 cents.12  
When you multiply these reductions by all the Apple devices in the  
world, the impact on our carbon footprint really adds up.Product energy use (kWh/yr)
Over time, the average energy 
our products use compared with previous generations has declined.
61%
MacBook Pro consumes 61 percent  
less energy than the original MacBook Pro with Retina display.
13
 96%
iMac consumes up to 96 percent  
less energy in sleep mode than  
the first generation.40% 
iMac Pro consumes 40 percent  
less power during sleep and off  
mode—the result of an innovation  
in power supply design.14 
 9 watts
When playing music, HomePod  
consumes less power than an  
average LED lightbulb.15
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
201723.224.2
21.8
17.7
14.6
11.2
8.48.8
7.2 7.018
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Product Transportation/End of Life
We take responsibility for the energy 
used to ship and recycle our products.
We include all the energy used for shipping and recycling in our carbon 
footprint. So we strive to make our packaging smaller or lighter so less 
fuel is consumed when we transport products by air and sea. We’re also 
adjusting our recycling practices. When collecting end-of-life products, 
we maximize the environmental benefits of recycling by weighing the 
availability of recovery technology with the impacts of shipping materials.
The packaging for the 13-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar weighs 19 percent less 
than the previous generation. By designing our packaging to be lighter, we reduce emissions from shipping.
1619
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Resources
 Rethinking materials. 
We’re always thinking of ways to use fewer of the earth’s  
precious resources and ways to use them again. Like recovering more  
of the high-quality materials in your old devices to make new products. 
Through more efficient recycling technologies and other innovations, 
we hope that one day we can stop mining the earth altogether. 20
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Products
Our goal is a closed-loop supply chain. 
Traditional supply chains are linear. Materials are mined, manufactured as 
products, and often end up in landfills after use. Then the process starts 
over and more materials are extracted from the earth for new products. 
This extraction damages our environment and depletes the resources we 
all need to thrive. So in 2017, we announced our commitment to a closed-
loop supply chain—where products are made using recycled or renewable 
materials only. And where we return an equivalent amount of material 
back to the market to be used by us or others. It’s an ambitious goal that 
will require years of collaboration across Apple teams, our suppliers, and 
recyclers—but our work is already underway.
While we transition to this new supply chain model, we are committed to 
maintain our initiatives that ensure the materials we use in our products 
are sourced responsibly—through strict standards and programs that drive 
positive change. 
How we define “closed loop”  
Use Collect MakeSecondary Materials Market
(finite and renewable)
Responsibly Managed
Renewables MarketCreate and 
ProtectRecover
Source Contribute
The four aspects of a closed-loop supply chain: 
1. Source:  Use recycled or renewable materials that are responsibly sourced. 
2.  Mak e efficiently: Design and manufacture products to minimize the use  
of materials. 
3.   Use for a long time:  Design products to be durable, so they can have  
long lives.
4.  Contribute: Replenish market supply with an amount of recycled, reclaimed, or 
renewable material at least equal to the amount used to make the product. Supplier responsibility
We hold ourselves and our  
suppliers to the highest standard 
when it comes to human rights,  
environmental protection, and responsible business practices  
in our supply chain. Learn more >21
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017How we contribute back to market depends on the type of material 
involved. For finite materials such as aluminum, we seek to recover the 
material from the manufacturing process and from products at their end of 
life. We then either redirect that material back into our own supply chain, or 
ensure it is sent to a secondary materials market. For renewable materials 
such as the wood fiber in our packaging, our focus is on regeneration of 
supply, meaning that we create, or protect, an equivalent supply of the 
resource that we use. 
We hold ourselves to a strict definition of closed loop: To meet our goal, we 
must use 100 percent responsibly sourced recycled or renewable materials and ensure the equivalent amount is returned to market. Recognizing 
that this goal could take many years to reach, we remain committed to 
responsible sourcing of primary materials as we make the transition. 
Our approach.
Fundamental to this work is our firm belief that we can transition to recycled or renewable materials without compromising the final product. 
To prioritize which materials to tackle first, we created Material Impact 
Profiles for 45 elements and raw materials commonly used in consumer 
electronics. The profiles identified global environmental, social, and supply 
risk factors spanning the life of each material. We then combined the 
impact profiles with data that’s more specific to Apple. Finally, in addition 
to the weighted score assigned to each material, we also considered 
additional qualitative factors, like whether a material represents unique 
opportunities for new closed-loop supply chain models or is significant to the customer experience—like the glass they touch or the paper in their 
product packaging.
Through this process, we identified a short list of materials on which to 
focus our initial efforts. We’ve started working to close the loop on these 
priority materials, and have active projects for aluminum, cobalt, copper, 
glass, paper, plastics, stainless steel, tin, tungsten, and rare earth elements 
(neodymium, praseodymium, dysprosium).
We’re doing more with less.
We are making changes to our product designs to reduce the amount of material needed. For example, we changed the way we manufacture the 
enclosure of the 12.9-inch iPad Pro, replacing the extrusion process with 
a sheet forge design, resulting in a 73 percent reduction in the amount of 
aluminum needed. And since 2015, we have reduced primary aluminum 
consumption across all products by 23 percent, despite increasing sales.22
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Mining less from the earth. And more 
from old devices.
Our newest disassembly robot, Daisy, is the most innovative and efficient 
way to reclaim more of the valuable materials stored in iPhone. Existing 
techniques, such as shredding, recover only a few kinds of materials and 
often diminish their quality. Daisy can take apart up to 200 iPhone devices 
per hour, removing and sorting components, so we can recover materials 
that traditional recyclers can’t—and at a higher quality. By meticulously 
disassembling our products, we can direct components and materials to 
those recyclers who can recover what‘s important. These materials will then 
be sent back into secondary materials markets—closing the loop on these 
materials and reducing the need to mine more resources from the earth.
Daisy builds upon the learnings from Liam, our R&D experiment in 
automated disassembly that we announced in 2016. We created Daisy  
to have a smaller footprint and the capability to disassemble multiple models of iPhone with higher variation compared to Liam. Apple GiveBack
Trade in your device for an  
Apple Store Gift Card. Or have it 
recycled responsibly for free.  
See how it works >  
Daisy disassembles iPhone, retrieving components that contain high-quality materials.For every 100,000 iPhone devices, Daisy has the potential to recover:
• Aluminum  1900  kg
• Gold   0 .97 kg
• Silver  7 .5 kg
• Rare earth elements   11  kg
• Tungsten  93  kg
• Copper  710  kg
• Palladium  0 .10 kg
• Tin  4 2 kg
• Cobalt   7 70 kg
• Tantalum   1 .8 kg
EnclosureMain Logic Board
Alert ModuleRear Camera
Dock Flex
Receiver
Speaker23
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Our intention is to install Daisy in multiple locations around the world—  
starting with the United States and Europe. Daisy will process end-of-life  
iPhone 5, iPhone 5s, iPhone SE, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6s,  
iPhone 6s Plus, iPhone 7, and iPhone 7 Plus devices that are returned to  
us by customers or via AppleCare. The program’s success depends in  
part on customers returning their end-of-life devices to Apple, so we are 
launching Apple GiveBack to make it easier for them to do so. 
A durable device is a greener device. 
When products can be used longer, fewer resources need to be extracted 
from the earth to make new ones. So we assess all our products in our 
Reliability Testing Lab, using rigorous testing methods that simulate 
customers’ experiences with their devices. For example, we analyze how 
devices stand up to extreme heat and cold, exposure to water and everyday 
chemicals, and scratch tests from materials like denim and metal coins. All 
new materials, including recycled materials, are tested extensively to make 
sure they meet our performance and durability standards. If a product does 
require repair, Apple and its authorized service providers provide repair 
services and parts for five years after the product is no longer manufactured - or longer where required by law. 
In our Reliability Testing Lab, one of 
the tests uses a weighted pendulum that simulates a swinging arm hitting Apple Watch against a hard object. 24
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Making a material difference.
Our focus to date has been on proving what’s possible: identifying barriers 
to implementing closed-loop solutions and crafting pilot projects from which 
we can learn. In many cases, we have deepened our understanding and 
relationships within our downstream recycling supply chain. And in other 
cases, we’re invested heavily in research to identify closed-loop solutions.
Aluminum. We’ve found that one of the best sources of recycled aluminum 
comes from our own products and processes. That’s because we specify 
such a high grade of the material to make our products strong, durable, 
and beautiful. And today, the only way to keep the aluminum at this quality 
level is with a clean material stream—not mixing it with other grades of scrap aluminum, as is typical at recycling facilities. So our challenge is to 
recover the aluminum from our products and processes without degrading 
its quality. With Liam, Daisy‘s predecessor, we found a way to maintain the 
original aluminum purity from reclaimed phones post disassembly. So we 
designed Daisy to integrate this step.
Cobalt. * We primarily use cobalt in batteries. But it is not consistently 
recovered, and recycled cobalt is not well tracked in the market. So 
we’ve implemented a pilot project to ship battery scrap from suppliers 
that assemble iPhone and Mac in Shanghai to a recycler upstream in Apple’s battery supply chain. We plan to account for this material in a 
way that ensures the cobalt in those batteries is not only recovered and 
recycled responsibly, but allocated toward production of Apple batteries 
in the future. In addition, we continue to responsibly source cobalt, and 
100 percent of known cobalt refiners are participating in third-party audits.
Copper. Copper forms the conductive pathways on printed circuit 
boards, cables, and connectors. In partnership with our suppliers, we are 
investigating new methods to manufacture our printed circuit boards that 
will allow us to reduce the amount of copper needed in the process. And for sourcing, we are exploring ways to increase the amount of recycled 
copper we use for some of our printed circuit board and copper foil 
vendors, and directing in-process materials to recyclers who can integrate 
into our supply chain. 
Glass. We’re working with our cover glass suppliers to ensure that all 
glass scrap generated during the manufacturing process is recycled at 
the highest level possible. And we are partnering with them to enhance 
in-process reuse and reprocessing in ways not traditionally done in 
this industry. 
Paper. We’ve successfully created a closed-loop supply chain for paper. 
That means that 100 percent of the wood fibers in our packaging is either 
recycled or comes from sustainably managed forests or controlled wood 
sources. And we have protected or created enough sustainably managed 
forests to cover all the wood fiber we use in our packaging.
25
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Plastics.  Wherever possible, we’re moving to recycled or bio-based 
plastics, and in some cases, like for our packaging, we’re working to 
eliminate the need for plastics altogether. We’ve reduced the amount of 
plastics in our product packaging by 29 percent compared to 2016. For 
the remaining plastics, we’re looking for bio-based or recycled alternatives 
to petroleum-based plastics. We’re using these alternatives in a number of 
components—for example, the speaker, keyboard, and trackpad enclosures 
of iMac Pro are made with 60 percent recycled plastic. And the fan 
assembly is made with 26 percent bio-based plastic.
Rare earth elements. These elements include neodymium, praseodymium, 
and dysprosium, which are used in magnets for audio applications, in 
cameras, and in haptics technology. Traditional recyclers don’t typically 
recover rare earth elements, because they are often in small magnets that 
are embedded in a number of different components within iPhone. Daisy 
retrieves those components. So we’re now investing in new technologies to 
recover the material from those components so they can be used again. 
Steel. We use stainless steel in the enclosure construction of iPhone X and 
some Apple Watch models. Stainless steel is a highly recyclable material, 
and we’re working with our suppliers to increase the recycled content in the stainless steel that we source. 
Tin.* There is an existing market supply of recycled tin, but we wanted 
to make sure it meets our quality standards. So in 2017 we proved that 
we could use 100 percent recycled tin for the solder on the main logic 
board (where the majority of tin is found) of iPhone 6s. Since then, we’ve 
expanded to other products: We’re now specifying 100 percent recycled tin 
for the solder on the main logic board of iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus, iPhone 8, 
and iPhone 8 Plus. ** But to truly close the loop, we want to recover as 
much tin as we’re using—and make sure the tin is recycled responsibly and 
put back into the world’s supply. Unfortunately, tin is not recovered by all 
electronics recyclers. So we‘re prioritizing responsibly operated recyclers 
that recover tin, in addition to the copper and precious metals, from the 
main logic boards retrieved by Daisy. 
Tungsten. * Tungsten is a key material used in our Taptic Engine and other 
consumer electronics that enable devices to vibrate. The availability of 
recycled tungsten varies by geography and by supplier, and the tungsten in 
our products is currently lost to shredding in traditional recycling processes. 
So Daisy retrieves the alert module and allows us to send it to speciality recyclers who recover tungsten. 
 *  Apple is committed to the responsible sourcing of materials for our products. We identify and map both 
regulated and unregulated materials in our products deep in the supply chain. For the second year in a row, 
100 percent of our identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, and cobalt smelters and refiners participated in 
independent third-party audits. We go beyond what is required by law, including by publishing smelter lists,  
to meet and exceed internationally accepted due diligence standards and help protect the people in our   
supply chain. Download Apple’s Conflict Minerals Report.  
** The r ecycled tin we ʼre transitioning to has been verified by a third party to be 100   
percent recycled.
26
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Packaging 
We’re using more recycled and  
responsibly sourced materials in  
our packaging.
Forests provide wood fiber for the paper in our product packaging. They 
also clean our air, purify our water, and provide wildlife habitat. We look 
for ways to use more recycled and responsibly sourced paper, to create 
technologies that use paper more efficiently, and to find alternatives to 
plastic. In fiscal year 2017, 100 percent of the paper in our packaging was 
from responsibly managed forests, controlled wood, or recycled sources. 
We’re replacing some plastic components with materials like bamboo fiber 
and bagasse, a by-product of sugarcane. And we’ve reached our goal to 
protect and create enough sustainably managed forests around the world 
to cover our current paper use and produce fiber for generations. The results are more beautiful than ever—for our packaging and for the planet.
Reducing our plastic use.
In fiscal year 2017, U.S. product packaging used on average 29 percent less plastic than in 2016, made possible by replacing plastic with responsibly 
sourced and recycled paper. For example, we‘ve replaced the plastic 
EarPods case with a paper alternative. Starting with iPhone 7, iPad Pro, 
and the new iPad launched in March 2018, we changed the plastic tray 
in the packaging to an all molded fiber alternative. And we replaced the 
expanded polystyrene that protects iMac Pro during shipping with paper 
padding made from 100 percent recycled fiber. 
Plastic and fiber packaging footprint (metric tons)
In fiscal year 2017, our U.S. product packaging used on average 29 percent less 
plastic than in 2016. Recycled fiber now represents 64 percent of packaging fiber. And we are now sourcing 100 percent of the virgin fiber in our packaging from  
sustainably managed forests or controlled wood.Read more about our paper and  
packaging strategy. Download PDF 
The U.S. retail packaging of the  
iMac Pro contains 78 percent less  
plastic than the similarly sized 27-inch iMac with Retina 5K display, and  
contains 85 percent recycled content. 
•Plastic 
/bullet.scOther virgin fiber
/bullet.scResponsibly sourced virgin fiber     
•Recycled fiber  
2016 2017 2015020%40%60%80%100%171,500 165,000 169,000
27
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Sourcing virgin paper responsibly.
Wherever possible, we use recycled paper. But when virgin paper is needed 
in our packaging, we require our suppliers to source it from sustainably 
managed forests or FSC controlled wood sources.17 In 2017, all of our 
packaging suppliers sourced their paper responsibly. And we conduct regular audits to ensure their claims.
Our corporate office paper use—which includes printing paper, paper 
towels, and toilet paper—represented less than 2 percent of our total fiber 
footprint. In fiscal year 2017, approximately 80 percent of our corporate 
paper use was from recycled sources or sustainably managed forests.  
And in some of our offices in China, we’re sourcing paper from one of  
the sustainably managed forests created in partnership with World Wildlife 
Fund (WWF).
Protecting sustainable forests.
In addition to specifying that all of our virgin fiber be sourced responsibly, we also wanted to make sure we weren’t diminishing the world’s supply of 
responsible paper. So we set a goal to protect or create enough sustainably 
managed forests to cover all of our product packaging needs.
18 For 
the second consecutive year, production from our forest conservation 
projects exceeded the amount of virgin fiber we use in Apple’s product 
packaging. As our paper demands grow and change, we will continue 
protecting and creating enough sustainably managed forests to cover all 
our packaging needs.100% 
All the fiber in our product packaging  
is now 100% responsibly sourced.
Sustainably managed forest,  
Brunswick County, North Carolina.28
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017In partnership with The Conservation Fund, we’ve protected 36,000 acres 
of forest in the Eastern United States that are certified as sustainably 
managed. In Maine, we’re protecting more than 32,400 acres in the Reed 
Forest, which includes critical wetlands and upland forest habitats that 
support a number of wildlife species in Maine’s iconic North Woods. 
In North Carolina, we’re protecting more than 3600 acres of pine and 
hardwood forest in Brunswick County along the southern coast of North 
Carolina. Apple and The Conservation Fund have donated a conservation 
easement for both properties. The conservation easements ensure the 
forests won’t be developed or converted to other uses, and will continue  
to produce sustainable fiber and other wood products.
In 2015, we announced a five-year partnership with WWF to transition 
up to one million acres of forest, across southern provinces of China, 
into responsible management by 2020. WWF’s work has three primary 
components:
• Increase responsible management of working forests in China—by creating up to 300,000 acres of FSC-certified forests, and up to  
700,000 acres of forests under improved management.
• Improve China’s policy framework to encourage responsible forest management.
• Establish long-term market incentives in China for responsibly sourced paper.
In just three years, we’ve surpassed our first objective by supporting 320,000 acres of forest to achieve FSC certification, and improving the 
management of an additional 430,000 acres of forest land in southern 
China. Altogether we’ve improved responsible management of 750,000 
acres, or about 1170 square miles. 
To address the project‘s second objective, in 2017, China’s State Forestry 
Administration and WWF released the China Sustainable Plantation 
Guidelines, which will be used to identify opportunities for improved forest management on more than 7 million acres of forest land included  
in China’s National Reserved Forestry Program.
And to create market incentives for responsibly sourced paper, WWF 
and the China Sustainable Paper Alliance continued to raise consumer 
awareness of the importance of responsible forest management. They 
launched a campaign that reached more than 20 million people through 
many events, media coverage, corporate engagement, and a celebrity 
spokesperson. 100% 
We have protected or created  
enough responsibly managed  
forests to cover the 51,000 metric  
tons of virgin paper we used in  
our packaging in fiscal year 2017.29
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Waste 
We’re finding new ways to keep old 
materials out of landfills.
We’re committed to making sure all the waste created by our own facilities 
and in our supply chain is reused, recycled, composted, or when necessary, 
converted into energy. Reaching this goal requires collaboration among 
multiple Apple teams, local governments, and specialty recyclers, but 
we’ve already seen great success. In 2015, our facility in Cork, Ireland, 
was the first outside North America to receive UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill 
certification.19 In addition, 22 supplier facilities—including all iPhone final 
assembly sites—have received UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill certification, diverting more than 625,000 metric tons of waste from landfills since 
January 2015. 
When first launching our Zero Waste Program for suppliers in 2015, we 
focused our efforts on final assembly sites in China, where most in-process 
packaging waste was being generated in our supply chain. Since those 
facilities have all achieved Zero Waste to Landfill certification, we’ve 
expanded our efforts to include more upstream suppliers. To date, we’ve 
engaged 71 supplier sites. To help our suppliers divert all waste from landfills, Apple provides necessary tools and guidance, including the 
services of experts in sustainable waste management.
In 2017, 22 supplier facilities were 
certified as Zero Waste, including all 
our iPhone final assembly sites.30
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017At our corporate offices and retail stores, we’re creating robust recycling 
and composting programs to minimize the environmental impact of the 
waste we produce. In fiscal year 2017, we generated 53,800 metric tons 
of waste, of which we diverted from landfill about 71 percent through 
recycling and composting. We continue to find ways to reduce the waste 
we send to landfill—like expanding composting at our corporate campuses 
and pursuing a zero waste effort at over 500 retail stores and at our 
headquarters in Santa Clara Valley, which includes more than 200 buildings. 
Apple disposes of hazardous waste responsibly. We complete regular 
audits of the Transportation, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF), where hazardous waste is ultimately sent to be treated, recycled, or incinerated. 
Only facilities we audit and approve are allowed to accept and treat the 
hazardous waste Apple generates. We take this commitment seriously—if 
the TSDFs do not meet our strict standards for environment, health, safety, 
and waste management protocols, we switch facilities. 
While we have a disassembly solution for nine models of iPhone, we also 
want to make sure other electronic devices stay out of landfills so that 
the resources they contain can be reused. So we’ve developed recycling 
collection events, take-back initiatives, and efforts like Apple GiveBack that make it easier to return old Apple devices to Apple. We’re also working with 
recyclers around the world, whose facilities we hold to rigorous standards 
of environmental compliance, health and safety, and social responsibility.  
Water
We hold ourselves accountable for  
every drop of water we use.
Water is essential to all life. We need it to drink, to grow our food, and  
to maintain natural ecosystems throughout the planet. And though water 
is a renewable resource, its scarcity—often exacerbated by climate 
change—makes it precious in many parts of the world. So we hold ourselves 
accountable for the water we use, whether at our corporate offices, our  
data centers and retail stores, or in our suppliers’ facilities around the globe.71%
We diverted from landfill about  
71 percent of waste across all of 
Apple’s facilities, including our retail stores. 31
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Supplier water use.
We’re focused on the water used by suppliers to make our products. 
In 2013, we established the Clean Water Program to help our suppliers 
conserve water and prevent water pollution. We put a special emphasis  
on working with suppliers with high water usage and in water stressed regions, as well as makers of components that our life cycle water 
assessments have identified as particularly water-intensive. 
Through employee training, baseline assessments, performance 
evaluations, and technical support, we helped our suppliers conserve  
more than 5.1 billion gallons of water in 2017 alone, increasing average  
water reuse to 37 percent across 106 facilities. And since many of our suppliers also build components for other companies, we’re reducing  
the water footprint of non-Apple products too.
Corporate water use.
At our offices, data centers, and retail stores across the world, we monitor our cooling, landscaping, and sanitation water use so we can develop 
targeted ways to conserve water. In fiscal year 2017, Apple used about  
1 billion gallons of water directly, a 59 percent increase over the previous year. This increase was driven by extraordinary growth in our data center 
services, research and development activities, and temporary water 
uses like new construction, and establishment of mature trees at Apple 
Park. These temporary water uses represented 80 million gallons—nearly 
10 percent of our water footprint. In addition, we have expanded our water 
footprint to include colocation facilities and distribution centers for the first time, which together amount to 159 million gallons of water, or 16 percent 
of our total footprint. 
Water use at Apple facilities
We calculate our corporate water use  f or our data centers, retail stores, and    
corporate offices.
• Data centers   • Retail Stores   • Corporate   • Colocation facilities
   2013
2014
2015
2016
2017Millions of gallons
0 250 500 750 1000 13.6 billion
Since 2013, we’ve helped our  
suppliers save more than 13.6 billion 
gallons of water—enough to provide every person on the planet with  
almost 30 glasses of water.
Starting in 2017, we‘re including as part of Apple‘s footprint, water use at distribution centers and colocation facilities.32
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Our water strategy.
Our risk-based water strategy focuses on understanding watershed context, 
prioritizing areas of high water risk and use, and recognizing that each 
location requires its own solution.
Prioritizing our efforts.
We want to focus where our efforts matter the most and can have the  
largest positive impact. So we map our global water use against water  
quality, quantity, and regulatory factors to understand which regions have 
an elevated risk,20 then prioritize those locations based on how much 
water we‘re using.
Corporate water use by level of risk
0200400600800
Low Low-medium Medium-high High Extremely high
millions of gallons
54 percent of this water use 
occurs in three locations: Santa Clara Valley; Maiden,North Carolina; and Mesa, Arizona.
Using water efficiently. 
We work to minimize the water we use, especially in areas of elevated water 
risk. When siting a new facility, we consider overall watershed risk—including 
quantity, quality, and impact to the community—as a factor in our core due 
diligence process. We regularly install sub-meters to monitor and manage 
our water use, and reuse water wherever possible. At our corporate offices 
in Santa Clara Valley, our landscape efficiency program now integrates 
remote soil moisture sensors and rotating-head nozzles to reduce water 
use by 500,000 gallons. At our data centers in Prineville, Oregon, and Reno, 
Nevada, our design and operations teams have been piloting innovative 
mineral removal media in the cooling systems that will reduce our cooling water discharge by up to 30 percent. We are continuing to invest in new 
cooling technologies to reduce data center water use. In our retail business, 
redesigned back-of-house space includes low-flow fixtures anticipated to 
deliver up to 30 percent water savings compared with our previous design. 
Over 25 stores have been built with this new design. We mapped our water use to  
different levels of water risk  
(as defined by WRI’s Aqueduct tool) 
across the world to understand where we should be focusing our conservation efforts. Water risk takes into consideration indicators such as water scarcity, business risk, and habitat and livelihood impact to the basins in which we operate.
2133
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Identifying alternative sources. 
Once we have minimized our water use, we look to alternative sources  
to help reduce freshwater withdrawals, including recycled water, reclaimed water, and rainwater harvesting. At our headquarters in Santa Clara Valley, 
we helped extend the City of Sunnyvale’s recycled water system to our 
new Apple Park campus and to another new campus set to open in  
mid-2018. Between both campuses, use of this recycled water will replace over 30 million gallons of potable freshwater. We are also capturing 
rainwater for cooling, irrigation, and construction needs at our Maiden 
data center, and for our corporate offices in Cork, Ireland; Austin, Texas; and Yokohama Japan. 
Pursuing water stewardship. 
We‘re looking to restore water resources in the most critical regions in which we operate. For example, our Southern California retail stores make up the majority of our highly stressed water use in retail. Though our 
new back-of-house design will minimize water use, we still face risk from 
poor overall health of the watershed. So we partnered with Bonneville Environmental Foundation (BEF) to help fund WAYS Park, a project led 
by Heal the Bay in South Los Angeles. The park will collect and filter 
stormwater runoff from 9 acres surrounding the site—delivering water 
quality benefits and groundwater recharge to the Los Angeles River 
Watershed, as well as recreational benefits to an underserved community.
Green Buildings
Designing our buildings with the planet  
in mind.
We want our commitment to the environment to show in everything we  
do—not just in our products, but at the offices where our employees 
work, in the services that our customers use, and in the spaces where 
our customers shop. We actively apply green building principles to all 
of our office, data center, and retail store projects. This means we’re 
creating these spaces to be environmentally responsible and use resources 
efficiently. For most projects, we are able to meet the U.S. Green Building 
Council’s LEED Gold requirements, and sometimes LEED Platinum—the 
highest level. 
Whether we’re building a new facility or renovating an already occupied 
one, we also think about enhancements that improve the general well 
being of our employees—such as inviting outdoor spaces. In addition, we proactively provide a high percentage of EV charging stations to all our 
corporate campuses, offer a comprehensive commute program, and utilize 
green cleaning and pest control products.24 million
We used 24 million gallons of recycled 
water and captured rainwater in 2017.34
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Apple Park—our new headquarters in Cupertino—is the latest example 
of this commitment. The building is on track to be the largest LEED 
Platinum–certified office building in North America. It’s powered by 
100 percent renewable energy, 75 percent of which is generated onsite 
by a 17-megawatt rooftop solar installation and 4 megawatts of baseload 
biogas fuel cells. Any additional energy required is drawn from the 
nearby California Flats Solar Project. When the building has less use—on 
weekends, for example—it will generate renewable energy that’s delivered 
to the public grid. Over 80 percent of the new campus is open space with 
more than 9000 drought-tolerant trees. Most are oak, and many are shade 
and fruit trees.
At our retail stores, we also apply green building principles. Our new  
back-of-house design is anticipated to reduce our water use by 30 percent 
and our energy load by 40 percent. And whenever possible, we’re bringing 
the outside in, through mixed-mode natural ventilation, and biophilic design, 
in addition to installing rooftop solar systems where conditions allow.
We’ve planted more than 9000 
drought-resistant trees at our new campus in Cupertino. We selected many tree varieties native to the area as well as others that could thrive in a range of climate change scenarios.35
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Safer Materials
Safer to make. And to use.
We lead the industry in reducing or eliminating the harmful 
substances commonly used in electronics. Through our rigorous 
process of design, testing, and analysis, we’re constantly  
evolving our products and how we make them. So the materials  
we use are safer for the environment, the people who make  
our products, and the people who use them.
Environmental Testing Lab, Cupertino, California.36
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Our Approach 
Design, manufacture, test. Repeat.
To help protect people and the planet, we set strict standards for the 
materials used in our devices—in many cases going far beyond what’s 
required by law. The evaluation process begins early in the design and 
manufacturing phases. If replacements for hazardous chemicals aren’t 
readily available, we work with our suppliers to find substitutions, or explore 
how to eliminate the need for that substance. When we test replacements, 
we look for formulations that meet our environmental standards without 
compromising performance. And, of course, the end product must still live 
up to the design standards you expect from Apple. 
Safer materials assurance process
Through extensive testing, research, and toxicological assessments, we design    
products to be safe. And then we continue to evaluate products while they’re under -
going product development and after they’re released to make sure they stay safe.
• Set standard (Regulated Substances Specification)
• Educate suppliers
• Research safer alternatives
•  Validate compliance to RSS at Environmental Testing 
 Lab and third-party labs
• Collect full material disclosure•  Conduct toxicological assessments •  Audit suppliers• Validate supplier compliance documentation•  Test incoming components at final assembly sites
• Audit suppliers
•  Test incoming components at final assembly sites Product
Development
Post Product
ReleaseSet Policy
 
Validation and Toxicology 
We run our own environmental  
testing lab.
We built our own Environmental Testing Lab, where our chemists and 
toxicologists look for any potentially harmful substances. Since 2006, we 
have expanded it to more than 30 times its original size, and have regularly 
updated it with state-of-the-art equipment—like an inductively coupled 
plasma mass spectrometer, a liquid chromatography mass spectrometer, 
and a laser-induced breakdown spectrometer similar to the one used by 
the Mars rover. We’ve even manufactured artificial sweat to simulate human 
exposure, and to evaluate the safety of our materials that come into contact 
with skin.We screen our materials with  
comprehensive risk assessment 
tools, including GreenScreen® , which evaluates substances against 18 different hazards, including carcinogens, mutagens, and endocrine disruptors.37
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017To understand the safety of our materials more comprehensively, we started 
our Full Material Disclosure (FMD) program to identify all the substances  
in all the parts in all our products. So far, we’ve collected the composition  
of more than 25,000 individual components out of the 50,000 present in our 
products, and we get data on more parts every day. We’ve also collected 
FMDs covering over half of the mass of iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus, and  
iPhone X. We’re prioritizing materials with the greatest risks, such as those used in high quantities or those with the greatest human exposure. 
We apply our most rigorous controls to the materials that are in prolonged 
skin contact. Our toxicologists review results from our testing and use FMDs to generate comprehensive hazard and risk assessments including 
GreenScreen®, which considers 18 different criteria to help us understand the 
materials‘ effect on people’s health and on the environment. Only materials 
that pass our rigorous review process are accepted for our products.
Since we built our own Environmental 
Testing Lab in 2006, we’ve grown it to 
over 30 times its original size.38
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Worker Safety 
High safety standards for the people  
who make our products. 
We also work to protect the health and safety of the people who work in  
our supply chain. The standards we set for our suppliers go far beyond 
what’s required by law, like our Regulated Substances Specification 
(RSS) list, which identifies the toxic chemicals we limit or prohibit in our 
manufacturing processes and products. 
We launched a Chemical Management Program in 2014 to help suppliers 
develop a comprehensive approach to managing chemicals safely. The 
program has grown to 113 participating supplier facilities, and focuses  
on shifting to safer chemicals and improving general safety, awareness,  
and training. 
To better understand the opportunities for greener alternatives, in 2017 we 
mapped the chemicals used in our final assembly facilities and evaluated 
all control measures, such as ventilation, personal protective equipment, 
and worker training programs. The mapping resulted in the identification 
of harmful substances from cleaners at final assembly sites. Hazardous 
chemicals such as methanol, xylene, cyclohexane, acetone, and methyl 
ethyl ketone were replaced with safer alternatives including ethanol, 
isopropyl alcohol, glycerol, and water. We’re continuing to work with our 
suppliers to help them better manage chemicals used in manufacturing.100%
At all of our final assembly facilities 
in 2017, 100 percent of all process chemicals complied with Apple’s Regulated Substances Specification.
Final assembly facility in  
Shanghai, China.39
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Ensuring the safety of Apple Watch.
We test all our products, and place  
special attention on materials that  
come in contact with skin. In our  
nickel leach testing on Apple Watch,  
we place different components in jars  
of artificial sweat to ensure the nickel 
in the stainless steel alloy stays where it belongs.Looking for toxins.
Laser-Induced Breakdown 
Spectroscopy is one process we  
use to analyze the materials that  
go into our products and detect  
certain harmful substances,  
such as beryllium. 
Updating the lab with state-  
of-the-art equipment.
With the addition of gas and liquid 
chromatography mass spectrometry instruments, we can screen for even more substances of concern that aren’t explicitly targeted in our standard material evaluation process.40
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Eliminating Toxins
The worst toxins and what we’ve  
done about them.
We’re continually evaluating the materials used in products. When we 
identify toxins, we reduce them, remove them, or develop new materials 
that are safer. These efforts also remove toxins from our manufacturing  
and recycling processes, which protects the people who make and take apart our products and keeps pollutants out of the land, air, and water.
Beryllium
Eliminated from all new product designs. Beryllium is found in copper alloys used to make connectors and springs.MercuryEliminated in 2009. We use energy-efficient, mercury-free LEDs and OLEDs instead of mercury-based  
fluorescent lamps in all our displays.
LeadPhased out of display glass and  
solder in 2006.
22ArsenicEliminated from display glass since 2008. Arsenic was traditionally used  
in glass.
23
PVC and phthalatesReplaced with safer thermoplastic  
elastomers.
24 Both are still used by  
other companies in power cords  
and headphone cables.Brominated flame retardants (BFRs)Eliminated from thousands of parts  
such as enclosures, cables, circuit boards, and connectors in 2008.  
We use safer metal hydroxides and  
phosphorus compounds in their place.
25
41
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017External Engagement 
We can do a lot. But we can’t do it alone. 
We want insights and ideas from those who share our commitment to 
removing toxins. So we formed our own Green Chemistry Advisory Board, 
made up of some of the world’s leading toxicologists, researchers, and 
academics. The board helps us identify innovative ways to minimize or 
eliminate toxins from our supply chain. We also invite experts from around 
the world to meet with leaders at Apple. Together, we focus on eliminating 
toxins at each stage of our process, while sharing our learnings through 
Green America’s Clean Electronics Production Network. And we seek out the 
best ideas and insights from key NGOs to help us make our products and 
processes even safer.42
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Better T ogether
Leading and listening  
in equal measure.
A single company cannot solve the world’s challenges alone.  
So Apple engages across sectors, listens to diverse perspectives, 
and shares the latest research to identify solutions. 
In this past year, we’ve continued our focus on inspiring others,  
influencing public policy, and helping to improve global 
outcomes. We’ve deepened our engagement with well-respected 
organizations, collaborated with peer organizations, publicly 
shared our vision and our journey, and supported legislative 
efforts through advocacy. 43
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017More partnerships. More progress.
We engage with industry, sustainability, and cross-sector organizations to 
share knowledge while learning from subject-matter experts in strategic 
areas. We prioritize associations that share our values, passion, and deeply 
held belief that companies can make a difference. 
Great relationships are built over time. So we have renewed our 
commitments to Ceres, Corporate Eco Forum, the World Business  
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), the GreenBiz Executive Network, and the Paulson Institute, among others. We are continuing  
our memberships in organizations whose work aligns with our three  
priority areas:
• Climate change. To support our significant investments in renewable energy, we’ve continued to work with Advanced Energy Economy 
(AEE), RE100, and We Mean Business. In 2017, we joined several new 
organizations, including the Hawthorn Club to support executive women in 
the renewable energy industry and the Business Environmental Leadership 
Council of the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES). We also 
joined the Green Electricity Consumption Cooperative as a Board Member 
Company to support the use of voluntary renewable energy certificates  
in China. 
• Resources. Our work on creating closed-loop material supply chains is backed by our memberships with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation and the 
Aluminum Stewardship Initiative.
• Safer materials. We’re members of the ChemSec Business Group, where  
we work with like-minded companies across a diversity of sectors to refine our knowledge of safer materials. And we were founding members 
of Green America’s Clean Electronics Production Network. In 2017, we 
joined the Green Chemistry and Commerce Council (GC3) to advance the 
application of green chemistry in product design and supply chains. 44
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Collaborating for joint success. 
We’ve continued to work with cross-sector companies, researchers, 
suppliers, thought leaders, and technical experts to forge new paths,  
build unique solutions, and inspire others to continue their efforts. 
We are building relationships with key academic institutions worldwide—like 
with Tsinghua University’s School of Economics and Management in Beijing, 
where we are funding a $3 million endowed chair professorship based on 
Responsible Innovation. We also collaborated with Tsinghua for a second year 
on an App Innovation Contest and a Green Innovators program, which focus 
on identifying creative solutions to environmental challenges, governance, 
and public administration through entrepreneurship. 
In 2016, we partnered with app developers and customers across the globe 
to create Apps for Earth, an initiative that generated over $8 million to 
support World Wildlife Fund’s global environmental projects. As of November 
2017, World Wildlife Fund had invested approximately $6.5 million of funds 
raised, focusing on environmental projects in seven key areas: 
• Conservation of coastal riches
• Combating climate change
• Preserving forests
• Ensuring sustainable food sources
• Providing safe and secure water
• Saving sea turtles and tigers 
• Harmonizing people, nature, and wildlife
We continue to meet with our own Green Chemistry Advisory Board, made 
up of some of the world’s leading toxicologists, researchers, and academics. 
The board helps us identify innovative ways to minimize or eliminate toxins 
from our supply chain. We also invite experts from around the world to meet 
with leaders at Apple. Together, we focus on eliminating toxins at each stage 
of our process. 
In 2017, we invited key stakeholders to participate in small closed-door 
roundtables in Europe, the United States, and China to obtain feedback on 
Apple’s closed-loop ambition and our current approach. Attendees included  
a range of academics, NGOs, industry leaders, and other companies.45
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Showing what we do. Sharing what  
we know. 
We want to share our vision and our work, so we can make a difference well 
beyond Apple’s walls. To increase our impact, over the last year our team 
presented at several notable conferences, meetings, and events, including: 
• 2017 Sustainable Brands conference, where we outlined our ambition to 
create closed-loop material supply chains.
• The Columbia University Global Energy Summit in New York City; Washington Post Live—A World in Balance: Solutions for Sustainability; 
and the eighth annual Clean Energy Ministerial (CEM8). At these events, 
we demonstrated how business has the power to influence renewable 
energy markets. 
• Ceres Investor Summit at the United Nations, where we underlined the 
importance of business action and clean energy investment. 
• TechCrunch Disrupt 2017 conference, where we announced that Apple is 100 percent renewable in Japan, setting the example for other tech 
industry leaders. 
• GreenBiz VERGE 2017 conference, where we urged the business 
community to take strong action to protect the environment. 
• 2017 Forest Stewardship Council’s General Assembly, where we detailed our efforts to reduce our packaging paper footprint. 
• 2017 G20 Resource Efficiency Workshop, where we presented on Apple‘s efforts to reduce dependence on finite resources. 
In addition, we published a number of papers to offer insight into how we’re innovating on environmental challenges. These include a white paper about 
the work we are doing to source paper responsibly and a collaboration with 
RE100 about our supplier clean energy program. At the 2017 Women’s Forum for  
the Economy and Society in Paris,  
Lisa Jackson discussed Apple’s  
global impact through environmental  
leadership and how our values drive  
our business.46
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Speaking up for stronger policies. 
We believe it’s important to defend the best ideas and to amplify our beliefs. 
And to speak out when our voice will have a powerful impact: 
• In June 2017, Apple urged the White House to remain in the Paris climate agreement, to retain American leadership, and to take meaningful action 
on climate change. 
• In November 2017, Apple joined a number of other companies urging the 
government of Vietnam to make regulatory changes allowing companies  
to procure renewable energy through direct power purchase agreements. 
• In January 2018, Apple filed comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, urging it not to finalize a rulemaking that would subsidize 
fossil fuels, which would limit the ability of renewables to compete in the 
electricity market. FERC chose not to finalize that rule. 
• In February 2018, Apple filed comments with the Japanese government, calling for the development of a robust and verifiable renewable energy 
trading system that would help accelerate the deployment of renewable 
generation in Japan. 
• And in April 2018, we filed individual comments to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, urging it not to repeal the Clean Power Plan because of 
its importance in reducing emissions in the United States.47
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Appendix A
Apple’s Operations: 
Environmental Data
Facilities Environmental Performance Indicators (Page 48)
Product Environmental Performance Indicators (Page 49)
Scopes 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions Breakdown (Page 50)
Fiscal Year 2017 Natural Gas and Electricity Use (Page 51)48
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017KPI UnitFiscal Year
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Greenhouse Gas 
EmissionsScope 1
metric tons  
CO₂e42,860  34,400  28,100  28,490  29,300  21,220 
Natural gas, diesel, propane² 34,560 27,000  19,360³  20,710  22,090  14,300 
Fleet vehicles 8300  7400  8740  7780  7210  6920 
Process emissions4 2540 — — — — —
Scope 2⁵ 36,250  41,000  42,460  63,210  91,510  139,160 
Scope 3⁶ 293,440  303,910  312,910  259,130  225,630  202,060 
Business travel 121,000  117,550  139,940  110,940  90,948  85,090 
Employee commute7 172,970  186,360  172,970  148,190  134,685  116,970 
Total facilities emissions 
(Scopes 1, 2, 3)372,550  379,310  383,470  350,830  346,440  362,440 
Energy UseElectricity
million kWh1830  1420  996  839  708 608*
U.S. 1536  1157  831  702 590 —
International 296  262  166  137 118 —
Natural gas
million btu1,225,210  974,570  851,660  922,860  764,550  304,000 
U.S. 1,127,550  901,950  794,830 840,490 676,630 240,230
International 97,660  72,620  56,830 82,370 87,920 63,770
Energy  
EfficiencyElectricity saved as a result of energy efficiency measures (cumulative since 2011)⁹kWh
69,989,660  55,288,800 37,875,000 31,225,000 26,241,600 11,354,200 
Natural gas saved as a result of energy efficiency measures (cumulative since 2011)⁹million  
btu 2,453,410 2,228,477  1,676,735 1,431,215 1,238,291 548,508 
Renewable  
EnergyRenewable energy sourcing (calendar year)¹⁰% 97  96  93  87  73  60 
Emissions avoided as a  
result of renewable energy sourcing (scopes 1 and 2)metric tons 
CO₂e625,000 569,000 362,000  283,000  214,000  118,000 
Water Use¹¹Total
million  
gallons1000 630 573 494 430 345 
Data centers 410 207 166  113  69  57 
Retail 110 99 111  103  94  71 
Corporate 480 324 296  278  267  217 
Waste  
Generation
12Landfilled
pounds31,595,200  21,618,850  13,110,880  6,833,000  5,923,810  4,850,160 
Recycled 68,509,300  28,198,560  19,599,570  14,621,940  15,866,650  11,464,020 
Composted  14,567,500  13,737,320  3,006,170 — — —
Hazardous waste 3,342,700  2,287,320  1,002,300  508,040  70,550  123,460 
Waste to energy 645,000 — — — — —
Landfill diversion rate % 71 66 63 68 73 70
 Facilities Environmental  
Performance Indicators 
The following table summarizes environmental performance indicators relating 
to Apple’s global facilities, including our data centers, corporate offices, and 
our 500 retail stores, together occupied by 123,000 Apple employees.¹
Apple’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. 
¹ As reported in Apple’s Form 10-K Annual Report filed with the SEC for FY2017.
²  St arting in FY2016, Scope 1 emissions include diesel use in emergency backup generators and propane 
gas use in corporate offices.
³   In FY 2015, we adjusted our methodology to better reflect locations where natural gas is used. We 
estimate natural gas usage in offices and retail stores where we are not billed based on usage (e.g., 
leased office space or retail stores within malls). This more accurate methodology resulted in a 
decrease in emissions in FY2015.
⁴ Emissions from R&D processes. We started tracking these emissions in FY2017.
⁵   W e’ve updated our FY2016 colocation facilities footprint to reflect more accurately Apple’s operational 
boundaries. Per the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we’ve removed from our Scope 2 calculations those emissions associated with colocation facility cooling and building operations. This energy use, however, is still covered by renewable energy. As a result, these effective Scope 3 emissions from this energy use was 550 metric tons CO₂e in FY2016, and 500 metric tons in FY2017.
⁶  In FY 2017, we started calculating Scope 3 emissions not listed above. These include electricity 
transmission and distribution losses (22,300 metric tons CO₂e) and lifecycle emissions associated with renewable energy (46,400 metric tons CO₂e).⁷  W e adjusted our methodology for FY2017 to take into account Apple’s “At Home Advisors” Program, 
where employees work remotely.
⁸ Only t otal electricity usage data was available for FY2012. 
⁹ Because ener gy efficiency measures have lasting benefits, energy efficiency savings are calculated 
cumulatively since 2011. All efficiency measures are retired based on their effective useful lifetime as documented by the California Energy Commission. 
¹⁰We calculate our progress toward 100 percent renewable energy on a calendar year basis. Beginning 
January 1, 2018, 100 percent of the electricity we use to power our global facilities is sourced from renewable energy. 
¹¹Beginning in FY2017, “Data Centers” includes water use at colocation facilities, and “Corporate” includes 
water use at Apple distribution centers.
¹²Beginning in FY2017, we’re including waste from Apple’s distribution centers. Prior to FY2015, 
composted quantities were reported as part of the “recycled” figure. Beginning in FY2017, waste 
processed in “Waste to Energy” facilities is reported separately.   49
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Product Environmental  
Performance Indicators
The following table summarizes the environmental performance indicators 
relating to Apple’s products—including the life cycle greenhouse gas 
emissions associated with the manufacturing, transportation, use, and  
end-of-life processing of our products. In fiscal year 2017, we sold 216,756,000 iPhone, 43,753,000 iPad, and 19,251,000 Mac devices.¹
We also publish individual product environmental reports for all of our 
products. These are available at www.apple.com/environment/reports . 
Fiscal Year 2017 2016 2015
Scope 3 - Life cycle greenhouse gas emissions  
(metric tons CO₂e)²27,100,000 29,200,000 38,000,000
Manufacturing 21,100,000 22,800,000 29,600,000
Product transportation 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,300,000
Product use 4,700,000 4,900,000 6,600,000
End of Life³ 100,000 300,000 500,000
Packaging fiber footprint (metric tons) 145,000 129,000 133,000
Recycled fiber 65% 62% 60%
Responsibly sourced virgin fiber 35% 38% 40%
Other virgin fiber — <1% <1%
Packaging plastics footprint (metric tons) 24,000 34,000 36,000
Average power use (kWh/year) 7.2 7 8.4
Safer materials
Arsenic⁴ Removed from glass by 2008
PVC⁵ PVC-free AC power cord available in all regions except India and South Korea
BerylliumEliminated from all new product designs. Beryllium is found in copper alloys used to make connectors 
and springs
Mercury Eliminated in display 2009
Lead⁶ Phased out of display glass and solder in 2006
Brominated flame retardants (BFRs)⁷ Eliminated from thousands of parts since 2008
¹ As reported in Apple’s Form 10-K Annual Report filed with the SEC for FY2017.
²   W e have been calculating the life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of our products since 2007. Over time, we have greatly refined our model to include more Apple-specific data instead of industry averages. We 
made significant modeling changes in FY2016 to improve how we calculate emissions from the integrated circuits in Apple products, which resulted in a decrease in manufacturing emissions. And we make systematic 
changes each year to reflect changes in global electricity grids. Scope 3 emissions associated with employee commute and business travel are included in the Facilities Environmental Performance Indicators table.
³ Carbon emissions associated with our products’ end of life decreased in FY2017, because of changes in methodology to more accurately reflect disposal and recycling practices.
⁴ Arsenic is present in minute quantities in some semiconductor devices.⁵ Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates with the exception of power cords in India and South Korea, where we continue to seek government approval for our PVC and phthalates replacement.
⁶   Apple pr oducts comply with the European Union Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including exemptions for the use of lead. Apple is working to phase out the use of these exempted substances where 
technically possible. 
⁷ While Apple’s phaseout covers the vast majority of products and components, recently acquired Beddit products and some older Apple product designs may not be fully BFR -fr ee and PVC -fr ee.
Overview of Apple’s product life cycle carbon assessment (LCA) methodologyApple uses five steps when conducting a product LCA.
1. To model the manufacturing phase, we use part-by-part measurements of the entire product along with data on part production. The measurements help us accurately determine the size and weight of the 
components and materials in the product, while data on manufacturing processes and yield loss during production allows us to account for the impact of manufacturing. The LCA includes accessories, packaging, and units that are repaired and replaced through AppleCare.
2. To model customer use, we measure the power consumed by a product while it is running in a simulated scenario. Daily usage patterns are specific to each product and are a mixture of actual and modeled customer use data. For the purposes of our assessment, years of use, which are based on first owners, are modeled to be four years for macOS and tvOS devices and three years for iOS and watchOS devices. Most Apple products last longer and are passed along, resold, or returned to Apple by the first owner for others to use. More information on our product energy use is provided in our Product Environmental Reports.
3. To model transportation, we use data collected on shipments of single products and multipack units by land, sea, and air. We account for transporting materials between manufacturing sites; transporting products from manufacturing sites to regional distribution hubs; transporting products from regional distribution hubs to individual customers; and transporting products from final customers to recycling facilities.
4. To model recycling, we use material composition data on our products and cover the treatment steps carried out by the recycler to obtain metal, plastic, and glass material streams. Subsequent processing and 
remelting steps are not included, as these are considered stages of production and not end -of- life processing.
5. After we collect data about production, use, transport, and recycling, we combine it with detailed greenhouse gas emission data. This emission data is based on a combination of Apple-specific and industry-average datasets for material production, manufacturing processes, electricity generation, and transportation. Renewable energy used in the supply chain, initiated by suppliers independently or through the Apple Supplier Clean Energy Program, are also accounted for. Combining product-specific data with emission data in our LCA tool allows us to compile detailed results for greenhouse gas emissions as they relate to the product. The data and modeling approaches are checked for quality and accuracy by the Fraunhofer Institute in Germany.50
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Scopes 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions  
Breakdown (metric tons CO₂e)
Fiscal Year 2017¹ 2016 2015
Location Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2
Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TXOther U.S.
Cork, Ireland
SingaporeChina
Other International25,430
20,580
530
3301160
710
90220
181033,290
0
0
00
0
00
33,29020,537
17,121
397
248883
780
6538
100530,408
0
0
00
0
00
30,40815,415
13,248
369
233121
892
0117
43519,564
0
0
00
0
37672201
13,596
Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA  
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV
Mesa, AZ
Viborg, DenmarkColocation facilities (U.S.)²
Colocation facilities (International)²4210
150
70
9501530
15101520
0
0
00
0
00
15202738
126
139
1077713
683
— 16210
0
00
0
—0
162113
0
0
130
—0
0
0
00
—
—
Retail storesDomestic (U.S.)
International4920
2490
2430
1440
0
14403679
1597
20828924
0
89243800
2269
153122,893
0
22,893
Business fleet 8299 — 7370 — 8744 —
Process emissions³ 2538 — — — — —
Totals 45,397 36,250 34,324 40,953 27,972 42,457
Fiscal Year 2014 2013 2012
Location Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2
Corporate
Cupertino, CAElk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.Cork, Ireland
Singapore
ChinaOther International15,335
12,929
411148
115
100051
385
29621,555
0
00
0
06852
8577
612613,72710,747509
83
337743
50
39086817,50300
0
00
5826
7490418711,3439,132560
59
237715
32
—60948,21525,4500
0
42650
4946
104912,505
Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CAPrineville, OR
Reno, NV18
0
0
18000
0
002201
2201
00
000
00
0146146
00
076640
76640
0
Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)International5355
2812
254341,658
11,036
30,66261583548261074,00244,60629,3972812787202583,285——
Business fleet 7778 — 7214
— 6923 —
Totals 28,486 63,213 29,300 91,505 21,224 139,164
—  = Energy source not yet online.
Scope 1 emissions result from natural gas use in buildings, and gasoline use for fleet vehicles. As is typical, these emissions are tracked separately from our 100% renewable energy claim. Starting in FY2016,  
Scope 1 emissions capture diesel use in emergency backup generators and propane gas use in corporate offices. Scope 1 emissions are calculated using emissions factors from EPA clean energy website  
https://www.epa.gov/climateleadership/center-corporate-climate-leadership-ghg-emission-factors-hub .
Scope 2 emissions result from electricity use for Apple‘s facilities, calculated using a market-based approach, following the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
¹   Apple also calculat es what our emissions would have been had we not taken action to supply new, clean renewable energy to our facilities. If we remove the emissions reduction benefits of our renewable energy  
program, then our Scope 1 emissions in FY2017 would have been 70,780 metric tons CO₂e and our Scope 2 emissions would have been 589,000 CO₂e for our corporate operations, data centers, and retail stores. In FY2017, combustion of biogas for our fuel cells resulted in 36,220 metric tons of direct CO₂ emissions. These emissions are not counted in Apple‘s footprint because they would have occurred naturally even if we had not combusted the biogas.
²   In FY 2016, we began tracking electricity used at colocation facilities as part of Apple‘s footprint. We‘ve updated our FY2016 colocation facilities footprint to reflect more accurately Apple‘s operational boundaries.  
Per the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we‘ve removed from our Scope 2 calculations those emissions associated with colocation facility cooling and building operations. This energy use, however, is still covered by renewable energy. As a result, these Scope 3 effective emissions from this energy use was 550 metric tons CO₂e in FY2016, and 500 metric tons in FY2017.
³  Emissions from R&D processes.51
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Fiscal Year 2017 Natural Gas and  
Electricity Use
The chart below provides a detailed breakdown of fiscal year 2017 energy 
use, which is used to calculate our carbon emissions.
Fiscal Year 2017
Natural Gas Electricity
LocationTotal Gas
(mmBTU)Renewable Biogas
(mmBTU)Total Electricity
(million kWh)Renewable Electricity
(million kWh)
Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TXOther U.S.
Cork, Ireland
SingaporeChina
Other International556,970
467,280
9930
618021,750
13,420
5404070
33,80085,990
85,990
0
00
0
00
0544
305
15
5619
13
1924
93488
305
15
5619
13
1924
37
Data centers
Maiden, NCNewark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV  
Mesa, AZ
Viborg, Denmark
Colocation Facilities (USA)¹  
Colocation Facilities (International)¹575,600575,0400
520
040
— 
N/A
N/A575,040
575,040
0
00
0
—
N/A
N/A1106273118
195
18645
<1
228611103273118
195
18645
<1
22858
Retail storesDomestic (U.S.)International92,60046,80045,80000018296861799683
Totals 1,225,170 661,030 1852 1770
Percent Renewable² 54% 97%
— Data not tracked 
N/A = Gas use at colocation facilities are considered outside of Apple’s operational control.
¹   W e’ve updated our FY2016 colocation facilities footprint to reflect more accurately Apple’s operational boundaries. Per the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we’ve removed electricity use associated with  
colocation facility cooling and building operations. This energy use, however, is still covered by renewable energy.
²   W e calculate our progress toward 100 percent renewable energy on a calendar year basis. In calendar year 2017, 97 percent of the electricity used at our global facilities was powered by renewable energy. Beginning 
January 1, 2018, we are at 100 percent.52
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Appendix B 
Data Center Energy 
Supplement
 
 
Apple’s data center presence continues to grow—since April 2017, we 
announced a new U.S. data center in Iowa, a second data center in 
Denmark, and two new data centers in China. 
Each Apple data center has unique design features that reflect the climate 
and other aspects of its specific site. All of our data centers operate on  
100 percent renewable energy and power billions of iMessages, answers from Siri, and song downloads from iTunes. This means that no matter how 
much data the facilities handle, there is a zero greenhouse gas emissions impact from their electricity use. These data centers use renewable energy 
sources like solar, wind, biogas fuel cells, and low-impact hydro power from 
onsite and locally obtained resources. 
Maiden, North Carolina
Between 2011 and 2015, we installed 68 megawatts of Apple-created projects: two 20-megawatt solar arrays, an 18-megawatt solar array, and 
10 megawatts of biogas fuel cells. In 2015, we partnered with the local utility, 
Duke Energy, to help build five solar PV projects through Duke Energy’s 
Green Source Rider program. These solar PV projects, which started coming 
online in late 2015, were Duke Energy’s first Green Source Rider projects 
to become operational. We worked with Duke Energy for several years to 
develop this green energy tariff option, which allowed Apple and Duke 
Energy to work together to develop new renewable energy projects. The 
five projects have a combined peak capacity of 20 megawatts. In 2017, we also made long-term commitments to five more solar PV projects in North 
Carolina, for an additional 86 megawatts of clean energy. All told, in fiscal 
year 2017, the Maiden data center was supported by projects that generated 
273 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy, which is equivalent to the 
energy used by 20,663 North Carolina homes.
2653
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Among Maiden’s energy efficiency features is the use of outside air cooling 
through a waterside economizer during night and cool-weather hours, which, along with water storage, allows the chillers to be turned off more than 75 percent of the time.
Maiden, North Carolina—100% renewable since opening June 2010
273 million kWh energy use in fiscal year 2017
Duke Energy Default Grid Mix Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Nuclear 51% Apple’s Solar PV Projects 42%
Coal 33% Apple’s Biogas Fuel Cells 27%
Other 16% Duke Green Source Rider (100% solar PV) 12%
Renewable <1% NC GreenPower  (100% solar PV) 19%
2017 Default Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)100,480 2017 Effective Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)0
From Duke Energy Carolinas 2015 Statistical   
Supplement generation dataActual fiscal year 2017 energy data
Newark, California
Our data center in Newark, California, is powered by 100 percent renewable 
energy. We hit this milestone in January 2013, when we began serving the 
data center with energy sourced primarily from California wind power. We’re 
acquiring this energy directly from the wholesale market through California’s 
Direct Access program. Late in 2017, Apple’s 130-megawatt California Flats 
solar project in Monterey County, California, came online, and now we use 
Direct Access to supply power from that project directly to our data center 
as well as other Apple facilities in California. 
In fiscal year 2017, the Newark data center was supported by projects  
that generated 118 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy, which is 
equivalent to the energy used by 17,976 California homes.26
Newark, California—100% renewable since opening January 2013
118 million kWh energy use in fiscal year 2017
Pacific Gas & Electric Default Grid Mix Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Natural Gas 17% Bundled Grid (mostly wind) 91%
Nuclear 24% Grid (mostly wind) 9%
Other/Unspecified 26%
Renewable 33%
2017 Default Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)23,300 2017 Effective Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)0
www.energy.ca.gov/pcl/labels/2016_labels/  
Pacific_Gas__and__Electric.pdf (From September 2017)Actual fiscal year 2017 energy dataWindSolar + Biogas fuel cells54
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Prineville, Oregon
To support our Prineville data center, we recently signed a 200-megawatt 
power purchase agreement for a new Oregon wind farm, the Montague 
Wind Power Project, set to come online by the end of 2019. This is our first 
Apple-created wind project. And it’s our largest project to date, producing 
over 560 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy a year. 
Additionally, we executed a power purchase agreement for the 
56-megawatt Solar Star Oregon II PV array located just a few miles from our 
data center, which came online and began supporting the data center in 
2017. The project produces 140 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy 
a year. To strengthen the connection between Apple and these projects, we use Oregon’s Direct Access program to schedule the renewable energy 
from these projects directly to our data center. 
Also supporting the data center are two micro-hydro projects that harness 
the power of water flowing through local irrigation canals that have been 
operating for over 60 years. These micro-hydro projects generate 12 million 
kilowatt-hours of renewable energy a year. 
Supplementing these projects, and ensuring we remain 100 percent 
renewable all the time, we executed a long-term purchase agreement 
with Cypress Creek Renewables for all environmental attributes from a 50-megawatt portfolio of six solar arrays in Oregon. 
In fiscal year 2017, the Prineville data center was supported by projects 
that generated 195 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy, which is 
equivalent to the energy used by 17,916 Oregon homes.
26
Prineville, Oregon—100% renewable since opening May 2012
195 million kWh energy use in fiscal year 2017
Pacific Power Default Grid Mix Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Coal 62% Apple’s Micro-Hydro Projects <1%
Natural Gas 17% Oregon Wind (via Direct Access) 99.9%
Other 6%
Renewable 15%
2017 Default Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)57,980 2017 Effective Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)0
www.pacificpower.net/content/dam/pacific_power/  
doc/About_Us/Rates_Regulation/Oregon/11536-9_PP_
ORLabelingInsert_LrgBiz_F.pdfActual fiscal year 2017 energy dataWind + Low-impact hydro55
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017SolarReno, Nevada 
Unlike competitive energy markets where we’ve located some of our data 
centers, the regulated electricity supply in Nevada did not offer a simple 
solution for us to create new renewable energy projects dedicated to our 
data center. So we created a partnership with the local utility, NV Energy, 
to develop our first renewable project: the Fort Churchill Solar PV project. 
Apple designed, financed, and constructed the project, and NV Energy 
operates it and directs all the renewable energy it produces to our data 
center. The Fort Churchill Solar PV project uses a new kind of photovoltaic 
panel with curved mirrors that concentrate sunlight. The 20-megawatt array 
has an annual production capacity of over 43 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy. 
To facilitate further renewable development in Nevada, Apple worked with 
NV Energy and the Nevada utility commission to create a green energy 
option open to all commercial customers that does not require the customer 
to fund project development up-front. Thanks to this new option, the 
Nevada Green Rider, in 2015 we announced our second Nevada solar array: 
a 50-megawatt project called Boulder II. This project came online in 2017, 
producing 137 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy a year. 
In 2017 and early 2018, we used the green energy option two more times. 
Our third Nevada solar array is a 200-megawatt project called Techren 
Solar—Apple‘s largest solar array to date—estimated to produce over  
540 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy a year. And our fourth Nevada solar array is the 50-megawatt Turquoise Nevada project producing 
110 million kilowatt-hours a year.
In fiscal year 2017, the Reno data center was supported by projects 
that generated 186 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy, which is 
equivalent to the energy used by 16,756 Nevada homes.
26
Reno, Nevada—100% renewable since opening December 2012
186 million kWh energy use in fiscal year 2017
NV Energy—North Default Grid Mix Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Natural Gas 52% Apple‘s Solar PV Projects 99.7%
Coal 22% Other Solar PV (PPA) 0.3%
Other 3%
Renewable 23%
2017 Default Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)45,820 2017 Effective Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)0
www.nvenergy.com/bill_inserts/2017/Power_Content_  
Insert_NVE-North_2017-01.pdfActual fiscal year 2017 energy data56
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Mesa, Arizona 
Our newest data center, our global command center in Mesa, Arizona, came 
online in 2016. To support this facility, we partnered with the local utility, the 
Salt River Project, to build the 50-megawatt Bonnybrooke solar array, which 
became operational in December 2016. This project produces over 147 million 
kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy a year, which more than fully 
matches the energy used by the data center. 
In fiscal year 2017, the Mesa data center was supported by 45 million 
kilowatt-hours of renewable energy, which is equivalent to the energy used 
by 3,640 Arizona homes.26
Mesa Arizona—100% renewable since opening March 2017*
45 million kWh energy use in fiscal year 2017
Salt River Project (SRP)  
Default Grid MixApple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Coal 53% Apple‘s Solar PV Project 93%
Nuclear 18% SRP Solar PV Purchase 7%
Natural Gas / Other 17%
Renewable 12%
2017 Default Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)21,630 2017 Effective Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)0
www.srpnet.com/about/stations/pdfx/2014irp.pdf Actual fiscal year 2017 energy data
*Apple took operational control of the building in October 2015 and converted it to a data center that began servicing customers in 
March 2017
Viborg, Denmark 
We’re currently constructing a new data center running on 100 percent 
renewable energy in Denmark’s central Jutland region. Due to its proximity to 
one of Denmark’s largest electrical substations, the data center won’t require 
backup generators, which typically run on diesel and require periodic testing 
and burning of fuel. Solar57
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Denmark has a long tradition of biomass energy generation from agricultural 
waste products. Apple is partnering with Aarhus University (Viborg campus) 
to co-develop an agricultural waste biomass project. Methane from the 
biomass digester reaction will be used to create renewable electricity for 
our data center. Much of the agricultural waste going into the digester will 
come from local farms in a mutually beneficial relationship. They bring us 
their agriculture waste material to use as feedstock for the digester, and we 
give them the nutrient-rich by-product of the digestion process, which they 
can apply to their fields. 
Viborg, Denmark—100% renewable (currently in construction)
37,000 kWh energy use in fiscal year 2017
Energinet Default Grid Mix Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Natural Gas 8% Utility Wind Purchase 100%
Coal 28% Apple’s Wind Project pending
Other / Unspecified 2%
Renewable 62%
2017 Default Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)7 2017 Effective Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)0
www.aib-net.org/documents/103816/176792/AIB_  
2016_Residual_Mix_Results.pdf/6b49295b-ad99-  
a189-579e-877449778f62Actual fiscal year 2017 energy data
Our colocation facilities 
The majority of our online services are provided by our own data centers; 
however, we also use third-party colocation facilities for additional data 
center capacity. While we don’t own these shared facilities and use only a 
portion of their total capacity, we include our portion of their energy use in 
our renewable energy goals. Over 99 percent of our power for colocation 
facilities is matched with renewable energy generated within the same state 
or NERC region for facilities in the United States, or within the same country 
or regional grid for those around the world. And we will keep working with 
the colocation suppliers to get to 100 percent. 
Furthermore, we worked with one of our main suppliers of colocation 
services to help it develop the capability to provide renewable energy 
solutions to its customers. This partnership advances Apple’s renewable 
energy program and those of other companies that use this colocation 
provider. 
Beyond the use of our own data centers and colocation facilities, we also 
use third-party computing services to support some of our on-demand 
cloud storage–based services. We encourage these suppliers to adopt a 
100 percent renewable energy strategy for their energy use.Wind58
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Energy Use and Emissions at Apple’s Colocation 
Facilities
Total Energy 
Use (kWh)Renewable Energy (kWh)Default Utility  
Emissions¹  
(metric tons CO₂e)Apple’s Emissions—Including Renewable 
Energy²  
(metric tons CO₂e)Percent  
Renewable  
Energy³ 
FY2011 42,500 0 10 10 0%
FY2012 38,552,300 1,471,680 17,200 16,500 4%
FY2013 79,462,900 46,966,900 31,800 14,500 59%
FY2014 108,659,700 88,553,400 44,300 11,000 81%
FY2015 142,615,000 121,086,100 60,500 12,700 85%
FY2016⁴ 145,520,900 143,083,200 66,300 1,600 98%
FY2017 289,195,800 286,378,100 125,600 1,500 99%
¹   W e calculate “default utility emissions” to provide baseline emissions of what our carbon footprint would have been without the use of 
renewable energy. This allows us to demonstrate the savings resulting from our renewable energy program. 
²   Apple’ s greenhouse gas emissions are calculated using the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology for calculating 
market-based emissions. 
³  W e calculate our progress toward our 100 percent renewable energy goal on a calendar year basis. In calendar year 2017, 99% of the 
electricity used at our colocation facilities was powered by renewable energy. Beginning January 2018, it is at 100%. 
⁴   Ov er the past two years, we have been installing submeters in colocation facilities to better track electricity usage. Beginning in FY2016, we 
started reporting this submetered electricity usage. Prior to fiscal year 2016, reported electricity usage was conservatively estimated based 
on maximum contract capacity quantities. We’ve updated our fiscal year 2016 colocation facilities footprint to reflect more accurately Apple’s operational boundaries. Per the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we‘ve removed from our electricity usage and Scope 2 calculations those emissions associated with colocation facility cooling and building operations. This energy use, however, is still covered by renewable energy.
Regional Energy Use at Apple’s Colocation Facilities  
(Fiscal Year 2017)  
Total Energy Use
(kWh)Renewable Energy(kWh)Percent  
Renewable Energy*
U.S. 228,114,700 228,014,600 100%
Europe 23,355,300 20,637,700 88%
APAC 37,725,800 37,725,800 100%
FY2017 Total 289,195,800 286,378,100 99%
* W e calculate our progress toward our 100 percent renewable energy goal on a calendar year basis. In calendar year 2017, 99% of the  
electricity used at our colocation facilities was source with renewable energy. Beginning January 2018, it is at 100%.59
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Appendix C
Assurance and Review 
Statements
Bureau Veritas: Corporate energy, carbon, waste, and water data  
(Pages 60–62)
Fraunhofer Institute: Product life cycle carbon footprint  
(Pages 63–66)
Bureau Veritas: Supplier clean energy program  
(Pages 67–69)
Fraunhofer Institute: Comprehensive fiber footprint  
(Pages 70–71)
Fraunhofer Institute: Packaging plastic footprint  
(Pages 72–74)60
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
 
BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT  
 
 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Bureau Veritas  North America, Inc . (BVNA ) was e ngaged by Apple, Inc . (Apple) to conduct an 
independent assurance of select environmental data reported in its 2017 environmental report (the 
Report).  This Assurance Stat ement applies to the related information included within the scope of 
work described below .  The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of Apple . 
The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance to Apple ’s stakeholders on the  accuracy, 
reliability and objectivity of select information included in the Report.    
This information and its presentation in the Report  are the sole responsibility of the management of 
Apple .  BVNA  was not involved in the collection of the information o r the drafting of the Report .  
 
Scope of Work   
Apple requested BVNA  to include in its independent review the following:  
 Assurance of select e nvironmental data and information included in  the Report for  the fiscal 
year 2017 reporting period  (September 25, 2016 through September 30 , 2017) , specifically , in 
accordance with Apple’s definitions and World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol:  
o Energy : Direct ( Million Therms) and Indirect ( Million k ilowatt hours (mkW h)) 
o Renewable Energy (mkWH) 
o Water Withdrawal ( Million Gallons ) 
o Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions : Direct Scope 1  emissions by weight, Indirect Scope 
2 emissions by weight , Indirect Scope 3  emissions by weight  (Employee Commute and 
Business Travel) (Metric Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent) 
o Waste Quantities and Disposition (Metric Tonnes) 
o Paper Quantities (Metric Tonnes) 
o Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to 
collect, analyze, and review the environmental information reported ;  
Excluded from the scope of our work is any  assurance of information relating to: 
 Text or other written statements associated with the Report 
 Activities outside the defined assurance period  
 
Methodology  
BVNA undertook the following activities:  
1. Site visits to Apple facilities in Culver City, California; Maiden, North Carolina; London, United 
Kingdom; Taipei, Taiwan; and Tokyo, Japan.  
2. Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino, California; 
3. Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple ;  
4. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by Apple ;  
5. Audit of environmental performance data  presented in the Report, including a detailed review 
of a sample of data against source data; and 
6. Review of Apple  information system s for  collection, aggregation, analysis  and internal 
verification and review  of environmental data.  
Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas ’ standard procedures and guidelines for external 
Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance.  61
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
    
Apple, Inc.  Page 2 
Bureau Veritas procedures are based on principles and methods described in the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. 
 The work was planned and carried out to provide  reasonable assuran ce for all indicators  and we 
believe it provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.  
 
Our Findings    
BVNA verified the following indicators for Apple’s Fiscal Year 2017  reporting period  (September 25, 
2016 through September 30, 2017) :  
 
Parameter  Quantity Units Boundary/ Protocol  
Natural Gas Consumption:   12.3  Million Therms  Worldwide  occupied 
properties  / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Electricity Consumption:  1,832  Million kilowatt 
hours ( mkWh)  Worldwide  occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Renewable Energy  1,772 Million kilowatt 
hours ( mkWh)  Worldwide / Invoiced 
quantities & self -generated  
Scope 1 GHG Emissions  45,400  metric tons of 
carbon dioxide 
equivalent (tCO 2e) Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol  
Scope 2 GHG Emissi ons 
(Location -Based)  650,600  tCO 2e Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol  
Scope 2 GHG Emissions 
(Market -Based)  36,200  tCO 2e Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol  
Scope 3 GHG Emissions  – 
Business Travel  121,000  tCO 2e Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Value Chain 
(Scope 3)  
Scope 3 GHG Emissions – 
Employee Commute  172,000  tCO 2e Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Value Chain 
(Scope 3)  
Water Withdrawal  1,000  Million gallons  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Trash  disposed in Landfill  14,300  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Hazardous Waste 
(Regulated waste)  1,500  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Recycled Material 
(Removal by recycling 
contractor)  31,000  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Composted Material  6,600  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Waste to Energy  293 Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Paper  1,100  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
  62
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
    
Apple, Inc.  Page 3 
Our Conclusion  
Based on the assurance process and procedures conducted, we conclude that :  
 The Energy , Water, Waste, Paper, and Scope 1 , 2 & 3 GHG Emissions assertions show n 
above ar e materially correct and are a fair representation of the data and information; and 
 Apple has established appropriate system s for the collection, aggregation and analysis of 
relevant environmental information , and has implemented underlying internal assurance 
practices that provide a reasonable degree of confidence that such information is complete 
and accurate .  
 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence  
BVNA is an independent professional  services company that specializ es in Quality, Health, Safety, 
Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent 
assurance services, and an annual 2017 revenue of $ 4.6 billion Euros. 
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Apple , its Directors or Managers 
beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this 
verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict of interest .  
 BVNA has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards 
among staff in their day-to-day business activities.    
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmen tal, social, 
ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes , has over 20 years combined 
experience in this field and an excellent understanding of BVNA  standard methodology for the 
Assurance of Sustainability Reports .  
Attestation:  
        
Trevor A. Donaghu , Lead Verifier  David Reilly , Technical Reviewer 
Technical Director, Climate Change Services Senior Project Manager 
Sustainability and Climate Change Services  Sustainability and Climate Change Services  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 
April 6, 2018  
 
63
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 1Letter of Assurance  
Comprehensive Carbon Footprint – Scope 3: Product r elated Carbon 
Footprint for Fiscal Year 2017 
Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s scope 3 carbon footprint data related to the products 
manufactured and sold by Apple Inc. in fiscal year 2017.  
1 Summary 
This review checks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the calculated comprehensive annual carbon footprint comprised of emissions derived from the life cycle 
assessment (LCA) of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 2017. This review and verification 
focuses on Scope 3 emissions for products sold by Apple Inc. (as defined by WRI/WBCSD/Greenhouse Gas Protocol – Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting Standard). It is 
noted that emissions relating to the facilities that are owned or leased by Apple (scope 1 
and 2 emissions) as well as business travel and emp loyee commute were subject to a 
separate third party verification and are therefore excluded from the scope of this statement. Confidential data relating to product sales and shipments were also excluded 
from the scope of this verification.  
This review and verification covers Apple’s annual greenhouse gas emissions and does not 
replace reviews conducted for individual product LCAs for greenhouse gas emissions 
(GHGs). The life cycle emissions data produced by Apple for individual products has been 
calculated in accordance to the standard ISO 14040/14044: Environmental management – 
Life cycle assessment – Principles and framework / Requirements and guidelines. This 
review and verification furthermore complies with ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 
3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions.  
The review of the annual carbon footprint has considered the following criteria: 
The system, boundaries and functional unit are clearly defined 
Assumptions and estimations made are appropriate 
Selection of primary and secondary data is appropriate and methodologies used 
are adequately disclosed 64
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 2These criteria are also fundamental to the review of LCAs conducted for individual product 
emissions. The reviewers note that the largest share (close to 99%) of Apple Inc. annual 
carbon footprint is comprised of scope 3 emissions from individual products. The aforementioned criteria have been regularly reviewed by Fraunhofer IZM since 2007 with a 
view to providing independent feedback that can facilitate continuous improvement and 
refinement in the LCA methodology applied by Apple Inc.  
Data reported by Apple is as follows: 
 Manufacturing Transportation Product Use Recycling  
2017 21.14 1.21 4.73 0.04 
[MMT CO 2e] [MMT CO 2e] [MMT CO 2e] [MMT CO 2e] 
MMT CO 2e: million metric tons carbon dioxide equivalents 
Including a reported value of 0.34 million metric t ons CO 2e for facilities (out of scope of 
this verification), total comprehensive carbon footprint is reported to be 27.45 million 
metric tons CO 2e. 
Apple’s comprehensive carbon footprint includes an increasing amount of greenhouse gas 
emissions reductions for manufacturing resulting from Apple renewable energy projects, 
supplier renewable electricity purchases, and supplier renewable electricity installations.  These reductions are part of Apple’s Clean Energy Program. Fraunhofer IZM has not 
verified these emissions reductions. 
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) assertion with regards to scope 3 carbon footprint 
is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of GHG data and 
information, and 
has not been prepared in accordance with the related International Standard on 
GHG quantification, monitoring and reporting. 
2 Reviewed Data and Plausibility Check 
A verification and sampling plan as required by ISO 14046-3 has been established in the 
course of this carbon footprint review and verification, defining the level of assurance, 
objectives, criteria, scope and materiality of the verification. 
As part of this review and verification Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  
Sales data for FY2017, including accessories and including AppleCare, Apple's 
extended warranty and technical support plans for t heir devices. 65
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 3Regional distribution of sold units and country specific allocation per product to 
major sell-in countries 
Product specific data on transportation including breakdown of air and sea shipment 
Life cycle GHG emissions for all products, differentiating the actual product configurations (i.e. memory capacity) 
Calculation methodology for the comprehensive carbon footprint and 
methodological changes implemented in 2017 
The total carbon footprint – scope 3 for the fiscal year 2017 
Detailed analysis of the comprehensive carbon footprint including: 
oThe breakdown of the carbon footprint into life cycle phases 
manufacturing, transportation, product use and recycling 
oDetailed product specific split into life cycle phases 
oThe contribution of individual products and product families to the overall carbon footprint 
The data and information supporting the GHG asserti on were projected (use phase and 
recycling) and historical (i.e. fiscal year 2017 data regarding sales figures, manufacturing, 
transportation). 
This review comprises a check of selected data, whi ch are most influential to the overall 
carbon footprint. The overall plausibility check addressed the following questions: 
Are product LCAs referenced correctly? 
Are results for products, for which no full LCA review was undertaken, plausible? 
Are carbon emission data for individual products plausible in the light of 
methodological changes as indicated by Apple?  
This review was done remotely. 
3 Findings 
Since the FY2016 Carbon Footprint review in early 2017 6 recent product LCA studies have been reviewed successfully against ISO 14040/44. These LCAs and LCAs reviewed in early 66
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 42017 cover product segments MacBook Pro, Apple Watch, iPad, and iPhone. These recently 
reviewed LCA studies cover products which represent in total 45,7% of the total scope 3 
carbon footprint. Representatives of other product segments (iPod, MacBook, iMac, Mac Pro, Mac Mini, Airport Express / Airport Extreme, Apple TV, and Beats products) underwent 
no or only minor design changes compared to those which went through a full LCA review 
in former years. All reviewed LCA studies up to now cover in total 73,5% of the total scope 
3 carbon footprint. 
End-of-life models were updated this year to better reflect actual recycling and disposal of 
packaging materials and products. The reduced carbon footprint of end-of-life processes compared to former fiscal years is largely due to this improved modelling approach.   
All questions raised in the course of the review were answered by Apple and related 
evidence was provided where needed. 
4 Conclusions 
Apple’ assessment approach is excellent in terms of granularity of the used calculation 
data. A significant share of components is modelled with accurate primary data from Apple’s suppliers.  
For all product LCA calculations, where exact data was missing, the principle of a worst-
case approach has been followed and results have been calculated with rather conservative 
estimates.   
The review has not found assumptions or calculation errors on the carbon footprint data 
level that indicate the scope 3 carbon footprint has been materially misstated. The excellent 
analysis meets the principles of good scientific pr actice.    
Berlin, March 29, 2018 
 
   
- Karsten Schischke -  - Marina Proske - 
Fraunhofer IZM  Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering  Reliability Engineering 67
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
 
BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT  
 
 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Bureau Veritas  North America, Inc . (BVNA ) was e ngaged by Apple, Inc . (Apple) to conduct an 
independent assurance of its Supplier Clean Energy Program data reporte d in its 2017 environmental 
report (the Report) .  This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the 
scope of work described below .  The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders 
of Apple . The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance to Apple ’s stakeh olders on the 
accuracy, reliability and objectivity of select information included in the Report.    
This information and its presentation in the Report  are the sole responsibility of the management of 
Apple .  BVNA  was not involved in the collection of the information or the drafting of the Report .  
 
Scope of Work   
Apple requested BVNA  to include in its independent review the following:  
 Methodology for tracking and verifying supplier clean energy contributions, including the 
Energy Survey, Renewable Energy Agreement, and other forms of supporting documentation provided by suppliers where available; 
 Assurance of Clean Energy Program data and information for the fiscal year 2017  reporting 
period  (September 25, 201 6 through September 30 , 201 7), specifically , in accordance with 
Apple’s definitions : 
o Energy: Reported megawatt -hours (MWh) of clean energy attributed to the Clean Energy 
Program for suppliers; 
o Avoided Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions associated with clean energy attributed to the Clean Energy Program; 
o Operational Capacity in megawatts (MWac) of clean energy in support of Apple 
manufacturing as a part of Apple’s Supplier Clean Energy Program;  
o Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to collect, analyze, and review the information reported ;  
Excluded from the scope of our work is any  assurance of information relating to: 
 Text or other written statements associated with the Report 
 Activities outside the defined assurance period  
 
Methodology  
BVNA undertook the following activities:  
1. Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino, California; 
2. Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple ;  
3. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by Apple ;  
4. Audit of reported data, including a detailed review of a sample of data  against source data ; 
and 
5. Review of Apple  information system s for  collection, aggregation, analysis  and internal 
verification and review  of environmental data.  
Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas ’ standard procedures and guidelines for  external 
Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance.  Bureau Veritas procedures are based on principles and methods described in the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. 
 68
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
 
   
Apple, Inc.  Page 2 
The wor k was planned and carried out to provide  limited assuran ce for all indicators  and we believe it 
provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.  
 
Our Findings    
BVNA verified the following indicators for Apple’s Fiscal Year 2017  reporting period  (Septem ber 25, 
2016 through September 30, 2017) :  
 
Parameter  Quantity Units Boundary/ Protocol  
Clean Energy Use  1.88 Million mega watt 
hours ( mMWh) Apple suppliers  / Apple 
Internal Protocol 
Avoided GHG Emissions  1.55  Million metric tons 
of carbon dioxide 
equiv alent 
(MMtCO 2e) Apple suppliers  / Apple 
Internal Protocol 
Operational Capacity  1,154  Megawatts (MWac)  Apple suppliers  / Apple 
Internal Protocol  
  
Our Conclusion  
Based on the assurance process and procedures conducted , there is no evidence that the assert ions 
for Clean Energy Consumption, Avoided GHG Emissions, and Operational Capacity shown above :  
 Are not materially correct; 
 Are not a fair representation of the stated information; and 
 Have not been prepared in accordance with Apple’s stated protocols for  their Clean Energy 
Program.  
It is our opinion that Apple has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and 
analysis of quantitative data for determination of the above indicators for the stated period and 
boundaries.  
 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence  
BVNA is an independent professional  services company that specializ es in Quality, Health, Safety, 
Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent 
assurance services, and an annual 2017 revenue of $ 4.6 billion Euros. 
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Apple , its Directors or Managers 
beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this 
verification independently  and we believe there to have been no conflict of interest .  
 BVNA has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards 
among staff in their day-to-day business activities.    69
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
 
   
Apple, Inc.  Page 3 
The assurance team has extensiv e experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, 
ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes , has over 20 years combined 
experience in this field and an excellent understanding of BVNA  standard methodology for the 
Assur ance  of Sustainability Reports .  
Attestation:  
        
Trevor A. Donaghu , Lead Verifier  David Reilly , Technical Reviewer 
Technical Director, Climate Change Services Senior Project Manager 
Sustainability and Climate Change Services  Sustainability and Cli mate Change Services  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.  Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 
April 6, 2018  
 
70
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate Fiber Footprint Review 
Client: Apple Inc. 1Review Statement  
Comprehensive Fiber Footprint 
Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s comprehensive fiber footprint data related to corporate 
fiber usage from products, corporate, and retail operations in fiscal year 2017.  
1 Summary 
This review checks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product and packaging related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the 
calculated annual fiber footprint of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 2017 and of 
corporate and retail operations in the same period.   
As there is no standardised method available for calculating a product or company fiber 
footprint Apple defined a methodology for internal use. The scope of the comprehensive 
fiber footprint includes Apple’s fiber usage from products, corporate, and retail operations. 
The comprehensive fiber footprint tracks the total amount of wood, bamboo, and bagasse fiber, both virgin and recycled, that Apple uses in packaging (“Packaging Fiber”), and other 
paper products such as retail bags, photo books and non-product related corporate use 
(“Corporate Fiber”).  
Apple obtains and analyses supplier-specific data for each product line and sums up these 
figures for the entire company using sell-in numbers. The output is a total fiber footprint.  
Data reported by Apple is as follows: 
  Total Fiber Virgin Fiber Recycled Fiber 
2017 Packaging Fiber  145,000  51,000  94,000  
Corporate Fiber 3,000 1,000 2,000 
Total  148,000 52,000 96,000 
 [metric tons fiber] [metric tons fiber] [metric tons fiber] 
 
The review of the comprehensive annual fiber footprint has considered the following 
criteria: 
The system boundaries are clearly defined 71
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate Fiber Footprint Review 
Client: Apple Inc. 2Assumptions and estimations made are appropriate 
Use of supplier data is appropriate and methodologies used are adequately 
disclosed 
All results and figures reviewed for fiscal year 2017 are plausible. 
2 Reviewed Data and Findings 
As part of this review Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  
Calculation methodology for the comprehensive fiber footprint 
Sales data for FY2017, including accessories 
Aggregated fiber data for all products and the total comprehensive fiber footprint 
for the fiscal year 2017 
The methodology paper (Fiber Footprint at Apple - Methodology Description - V1.1) 
provided by Apple and reviewed last year, is considered a sound and appropriate guidance 
for determining the comprehensive fiber footprint. Where appropriate, this approach 
follows methodological principles applied for state-of-the-art Life Cycle Assessments. 
Plausibility of some data has been questioned and discussed with Apple in detail. 
Corrections were made accordingly.This review was done remotely. All questions raised in 
the course of the review were answered by Apple and related evidence was provided where needed.   
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the 
comprehensive fiber footprint is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of 
fiber data and information. The excellent analysis meets the principles of good scientific 
practice.    
 
Berlin, April 5, 2018 
  
  
- Marina Proske -  - Karsten Schischke - 
Fraunhofer IZM  Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering  Reliability Engineering 72
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Packaging Plastic  Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 1 Review Statement  
Packaging Plastic Footprint 
Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s packaging plastic footprint data related to packaging 
plastic usage from product s and retail operations in fiscal year 2017.  
 
1 Summary 
This review checks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting product and packaging related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the 
calculated annual packaging plastic footprint of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 2017 
and of retail operations in the same period .  
As there is no standardised method available for calculating a packaging plastic footprint 
Apple defined a methodology for internal use. The scope of the plastic packaging footprint  
includes Apple’s packaging plastic usage from products  and retai l operations. The 
packaging plastic footprint tracks the total amount of plastic, adhesives, and ink, that 
Apple uses in packaging. Apple obtain s and analyses  supplier-specific data for each product 
line and sum s up these figures for the entire company using sell-in numbers. The output is 
a total packaging plastic footprint.  
The review of the annual packaging plastic  footprint has considered the following criteria: 
 The system boundaries are clearly defined 
 Assumptions and estimations made are appropriate 
 Use of supplier data is appropriate and methodologies used are adequately 
disclosed 
Data reported by Apple is as follows: 
 Total Plastic  
2017 24,000 
 [metric tons plastic]  
 73
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Packaging Plastic  Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 2 The two main drivers for the plastic packaging footprint are HIPS (h igh-impact polystyrene ) 
and adhesives.  
All results and figures reviewed for fiscal year 2017 are plausible. 
 
2 Reviewed Data and Findings 
As part of this review Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  
 Calculation methodology for the packaging plastic footprint 
 Sales data for FY2017 , including accessories 
 Selected product and supplier specific data on packaging materials and production 
yields  
 Aggregated packaging plastic data for all products  and t he total packaging plastic 
footprint for the fiscal year 2017 
The methodology paper provided by Apple (Packaging Plastic Footprint at Apple – 
Methodology Description  – V1.0) on March 2 , 201 8, is considered a sound and appropriate 
guidance for determining the packaging plastic  footprint. Where appropriate, this 
approach follows methodological principles applied for state- of-the-art Life Cycle 
Assessments.  
This review comprises a check of packaging plastic data for selected products  (iPhone, iPad, 
MacBook). For Beats products, it was explained which products where asessed in detail and 
for which products representative data was used. 
Plausibility of some data has been questioned and discussed with Apple in detail. 
Corrections were made accordingly. Similarly, scope for the packaging plastic and fibre 
footprint have been discussed. Including ink use of photobooks in future footprints is 
suggested for consistency between plastic and fibre footprint , although the impact on the 
overall packaging plastic footprint is expected to be low.  This review was done remotely. All questions raised in the course of the review were 
answered by Apple and related evidence was provided where needed.   74
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Packaging Plastic  Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 3 Based on the process and procedures conducted , there is no evidence that the  packaging 
plastic footprint is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of plastic data and 
information . The excellent analysis meets the principles of good scientific practice. 
 
Berlin, April 6 , 2018 
  
  
- Marina Proske -  - Karsten Schischke - 
Fraunhofer IZM  Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering  Reliability Engineering 75
Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017Appendix D
Environmental Health and Safety Policy 
Statement 
Mission Statement 
Apple Inc. is committed to protecting the environment, health, and safety of 
our employees, customers, and the global communities where we operate. 
We recognize that by integrating sound environmental, health, and safety 
management practices into all aspects of our business, we can offer 
technologically innovative products and services while conserv  ing and 
enhancing resources for future generations. 
Apple strives for continuous improvement in our environmental, health 
and safety management sys  t ems and in the environmental quality of our 
products, processes, and services. 
Guiding Principles 
• Meet or exceed all applicable environmental, health and safety 
requirements. We will evaluate our EHS performance by monitoring 
ongoing performance results and through periodic management reviews. 
• Where laws and regulations do not provide adequate controls, we will 
adopt our own standards to protect human health and the environment. 
• Support and promote sound scientific principles and fiscally responsible public policy that enhance environmental quality, health and safety. 
• Advocate the adoption of prudent environmental, health and safety principles and practices by our contractors, vendors, and suppliers. 
• Communicate environmental, health, and safety policies and programs to Apple employees and stakeholders. 
• Design, manage and operate our facilities to maximize safety, promote 
energy efficiency, and pro  t ect the environment. 
• Strive to create products that are safe in their intended use, conserve energy and materials, and prevent pollution throughout the product life 
cycle including design, manufacture, use, and end-of-  lif e management. 
• Ensure that all employees are aware of their role and responsibility to 
fulfill and sustain Apple’s en  vir onmental, health and safety management 
systems and policy.
Luca Maestri  
Senior Vice President and CFO  
January 2018Report Notes:
• This report is published annually and covers fiscal year 2017 activities, unless otherwise noted.
•  This r eport addresses environmental impacts and activities at Apple-owned facilities (corporate offices, data centers, 
and retail stores), as well as the life cycle impacts of our products, including in the manufacturing, transportation, 
use, and end-of-life phases.
• To provide feedback on this report, please contact environment-report@apple.com . 
 1 The CPU, SOC, DRAM, and memory (NAND) make up the bulk of the integrated circuit emissions.
 2 “Boar ds and flexes” refers to bare printed circuit boards and flexible printed circuits.
 3 Int egrated circuits, aluminum, bare boards and flexes, display, and onboard electronics make up 88 percent 
of manufacturing emissions. The remaining 12 percent (“Other”) include final assembly facilities, battery cells, steel, glass, plastic, packaging, and other materials (such as copper). These are listed in order of their contribution.
 4 “ Onboard electronics” includes capacitors, resistors, transistors, diodes, and other electronic components 
soldered to bare board and flexes, other than the integrated circuits.
 5 A ctive: active charging of the battery for iOS devices; active use of the product for all other products.
 6 Idle:  macOS and AirPort products that are awake, but non-active.
 7 Sleep:  maintenance charge of the battery for iOS devices; sleep mode for all other products.
 8 Gr eenhouse gas equivalencies calculated using the U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator:  
www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator .
 9 Includes new renewable energy commitments that are part of Apple’s clean energy program, as well as 
clean energy use purchases suppliers have made independently.
 10 Compar ed to early 2015 13-inch MacBook Pro with Retina display.
 11 Based on sales weighted averages.
 12 Calculation assumes one full charge per day, using the US Energy Information Administration average electricity cost in the US for January, 2018.
 13 Based on typical energy consumption calculations from Energy Star Program Requirements for Computers Version 6.1.
 14 Compared to a conventional, single-converter power supply design. iMac Pro incorporates a high-efficiency, dual-converter power supply design. 
 15 Based on the average power consumed by A19 LED bulbs listed on the ENERGY STAR Certified Light Bulbs Version 2.0 registry as of March 16, 2018. Average power use across geographic locations is approximately 9 watts.
 16 Compared to early 2015 13-inch MacBook Pro with Retina display. Includes retail and shipping box for U.S. configurations.
 17 For more details on FSC Controlled Wood standards, see Forest Stewardship Council. “FSC Controlled Wood.” 2017. https://ic.fsc.org/en/what-is-fsc-certification/controlled-wood .
 18 Based on expected equivalent fiber production from our forestry projects and virgin fiber used for Apple product packaging. To determine the output of Apple’s projects, we work with our partners to understand the productive potential of these working forests. The forest management plans required to achieve or maintain certification limit harvest volumes to sustainable levels. We use these potential harvest volumes to estimate the sustainable productive capacity of these forests.
 19 To achieve a Zero Waste to Landfill validation against the UL 2799 standard, a factory must divert 100 percent of its waste from landfills, with a maximum of 10 percent sent to a waste-to-energy facility.
 20 As defined by the WRI Aqueduct tool. We consider “elevated risks” to include levels medium-high and above.
 21 Source: World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct, www.wri.org/our-work/project/aqueduct .
 22 Apple products comply with the European Union Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including exemptions for the use of lead. Apple is working to phase out the use of these exempted substances where technically possible.
 23 Arsenic is present in minuscule quantities in some semiconductor devices.
 2 4 Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates with the exception of power cords in India and South Korea, where we continue to seek government approval for our PVC and phthalates replacement.
 25 While Apple’s phaseout covers the vast majority of products and components, recently acquired Beddit 
products and some older Apple product designs may not be fully BFR -fr ee and PVC -fr ee.
 26 Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2016 data:  
www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf .
 © 2018 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, AirPort, AirPort Express, AirPort Extreme, Apple TV, Apple Watch, EarPods, FaceTime, iMac, iMessage, iPad, iPad Pro, iPhone, iPod, iTunes, Mac, Mac Pro, MacBook, MacBook Pro, Mac mini, macOS, Retina, Siri, Taptic Engine, and watchOS are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. HomePod, iMac Pro, and Touch Bar are trademarks of Apple Inc. AppleCare and Apple Store are service marks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Beats is a trademark of Beats Electronics, LLC., registered in the U.S. and other countries. IOS is a trademark or registered trademark of Cisco in the U.S. and other countries and is used under license. ENERGY STAR is a U.S. registered mark. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective companies. April 2018