European Union 
NFRD Report
 2022
Published May 2022Contents
1 Reporting principles
2 Google’s business model
2 Environmental initiatives
5 Employee matters
7 Social impact
9 Respect for human rights
13 Data ethics
14 Anti-corruption and bribery matters
15 Conclusion
Reporting principles
We are issuing this report pursuant to the European Union (EU) non-financial 
reporting directive (NFRD) 2014/95/EU. This report covers the global 
operations of Google and all its subsidiaries. Google LLC itself is a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Alphabet Inc. In 2022, Google Sweden AB, Google 
Denmark ApS, and Google Spain SL are each required to report under 
Directive 2014/95/EU, according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act 
(1995:1554) (Sw.Årsredovisningslagen), the Danish Financial Statements  
Act Section 99 a and Section 99 d (Årsregnskabsloven), and the Spanish  
Law 11/2018 which amends Article 49 of the Spanish Commercial Code 
(Código de Comercio), respectively.
This report includes summary information on Google’s environmental 
initiatives, employee matters, social impact, respect for human rights, data 
ethics, and anti-corruption and bribery matters. When available, data covers 
our 2021 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31, 2021). When 2021 data is not 
yet available, such as for most of our environmental data, data covers our 
2020 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31, 2020).
For more detailed information on any of these topics, see Google’s 
Commitments page, which highlights our work across five areas: Protecting 
users, Expanding opportunity, Building belonging, Responding to crises, and 
Advancing sustainability. Our Reports database contains our public reports 
pertaining to these five areas. Links to additional information about our 
commitment to corporate responsibility can be found on Alphabet’s Investor  
Relations page .
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022
1Google’s business model
Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and make it universally 
accessible and useful. Alphabet is a collection of businesses—the largest of 
which is Google. Google is reported in two segments—Google Services and 
Google Cloud.
Our Google Services segment generates revenues primarily by delivering 
both performance advertising and brand advertising. We continue to look  
to the future and are making long-term investments that we expect to grow 
revenues beyond advertising, including revenues from Google Play, hardware, 
and YouTube non-advertising. Our Google Cloud segment generates revenues 
from fees received for Google Cloud Platform services, Google Workspace 
collaboration tools, and other enterprise services. 
Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We also own  
and lease office and building space in the surrounding areas near our 
headquarters. In addition, we own and lease office/building space and 
research and development sites around the world, primarily in North America, 
Europe, South America, and Asia. We own and operate data centers in the 
U.S., Europe, South America, and Asia.
For more information on Google’s business model, see Alphabet’s 2021  
Annual Report.
Environmental initiatives
Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time, 
and we’ve long been committed to reducing our environmental impact. 
Operating Google’s business in an environmentally sustainable way has  
been a core value since our founding.
In 2007, Google committed to being carbon neutral, and we’ve met this 
goal every year since then. We reach carbon neutrality via three steps. First, 
we work to reduce our total energy consumption by pursuing aggressive 
energy efficiency initiatives. Second, we match 100% of the electricity 
consumption of our operations with purchases of renewable energy; we’re 
the largest annual corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the world, 
based on renewable electricity purchased in megawatt-hours. Third, we buy 
high-quality carbon credits to compensate for any remaining emissions we 
haven’t yet eliminated.
In 2020, we purchased enough renewable energy to match 100% of the 
electricity we consumed for our global operations for the fourth consecutive 
year. From 2010 to 2020, Google signed more than 55 power purchase 
agreements totaling nearly 6 gigawatts of renewable energy that is new to 
the grid, representing a commitment of approximately $4 billion through 2034. 
These deals have resulted in over $7 billion in investments in renewable energy 
2
Google European Union NFRD Report 20222projects across the globe. We have agreements in place to purchase energy 
from four continents.
In 2020, building on what we’d learned and due to the transformation 
underway in the global energy system, we set a new goal: By 2030 we aim to 
run our business on carbon-free energy everywhere, at all times. To achieve 
this, we will need to evolve from matching our annual energy consumption 
with renewable energy to sourcing carbon-free energy every hour of every 
day. In 2021, we announced our goal to achieve net-zero emissions across all 
of our operations and value chain by 2030. We aim to reduce the majority of 
our emissions (versus our 2019 baseline) before 2030 and plan to invest in 
nature-based and technology-based carbon removal solutions to neutralize 
our remaining emissions. 
Google’s data centers are the heart of our company, powering products 
like Search, Gmail, and YouTube for billions of people around the world, 24/7. 
As part of our climate-related risk assessment, we identified that an example 
of a potential technology-related risk could be maintaining the environmental 
performance of data centers as demand for digital products, and the amount 
of computing power needed to run these applications, increases dramatically. 
However, we’ve worked for more than a decade to make Google data  
centers some of the most efficient in the world and have striven to improve 
their environmental performance even as demand for our products has 
dramatically risen. On average, a Google data center is twice as energy 
efficient as a typical enterprise data center. In 2021, the average annual PUE 
(power usage effectiveness) for our global fleet of data centers was 1.10, 
compared with the industry average of 1.57—meaning that Google data 
centers use about six times less overhead energy for every unit of IT 
equipment energy.
At Google, just as we focus on users in designing our products, we focus  
on our employees in creating healthy workplaces, from our San Francisco  
Bay Area headquarters to Google offices at diverse sites in more than 180 
cities around the world. At the end of 2020, over 1.5 million square meters  
(17 million square feet) of Google office facilities had achieved Leadership  
in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification.
We take a science- and community-driven approach to managing land  
use on our campuses, aiming to positively impact the places where we 
operate by designing and building our offices with local ecology and 
landscape resilience in mind. For example, we’ve developed science-based 
Habitat Design Guidelines, which we apply to our Bay Area campus design 
process. By the end of 2020, we’d implemented these guidelines across  
our headquarters, resulting in the planting of nearly 2,200 new native trees 
and the creation of over a dozen acres of new site-appropriate habitat.
3
Google European Union NFRD Report 20223To accelerate the transition to a circular economy , we’re working to 
maximize the reuse of finite resources across our operations, products,  
and supply chains and to enable others to do the same. One such project  
is a software system that we use in our kitchens to track and reduce pre-  
consumer food waste. This data-driven optimization has helped Google 
prevent nearly 4.4 million kilograms (9.7 million pounds) of pre-consumer 
food waste since 2014. To protect our planet and keep it healthy, we need to 
collectively cut back on food waste—for us at Google, that means doubling 
down on our efforts to reduce waste in our kitchens and cafes. By 2025, we 
aim to cut food waste in half for each Googler and send zero food waste to 
the landfill.
We also put Google technology to work helping others study and respond 
to environmental challenges. We’re working with numerous research and 
nonprofit organizations to map the world’s forests, oceans, watersheds, and 
air quality, then helping to get that information into the hands of decision-
makers. We do this by working with partners to build tools like Global Forest 
Watch , Global Fishing Watch, Global Surface Water Explorer , Freshwater  
Ecosystems Explorer , Environmental Insights Explorer , and Global Fibre  
Impact Explorer .
Through Google.org, we’ve funded numerous initiatives and organizations 
to support climate action, access to clean energy, and conservation. For 
example, in 2020, we launched the Google.org Impact Challenge on Climate, 
through which Google.org funded €10 million to bold ideas that aim to  
use technology to accelerate Europe’s progress toward a greener, more 
resilient future.
The highest management level of direct responsibility for our response  
to climate change rests with the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer of Alphabet and Google, who is responsible for overseeing climate-
related issues as she has visibility across all of the company's operations. The 
Audit and Compliance Committee of Alphabet’s Board of Directors reviews 
and discusses with management Alphabet’s major risk exposures, including 
financial, operational, data privacy and security, competition, legal, regulatory, 
compliance, civil and human rights, sustainability, and reputational risks, and 
the steps Alphabet takes to prevent, detect, monitor, and actively manage 
such exposures. Primary responsibility for managing climate-related issues is 
delegated to our Chief Sustainability Officer, who leads sustainability across 
Google’s worldwide operations, products, and supply chain and ensures 
alignment of our climate strategy across different business units. 
For more information about our environmental sustainability initiatives, risk 
assessments, and key performance indicators, see our 2021 Environmental 
Report  and our 2021 CDP Climate Change Response.
4
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022Employee matters
We recognize that our employees are our best assets and critical to our 
continued success. Our ability to compete effectively and our future success 
depend on our continuing to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly 
skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We invest heavily in hiring 
talented individuals, and we seek to hire people with diverse backgrounds 
and perspectives. 
Google’s Code of Conduct provides a guide as to how our employees are 
expected to put Google’s values into practice as they pursue the company’s 
mission. This includes respect for one another and for our users. Employees 
are expected to create and preserve a workplace culture that is free of 
harassment, intimidation, bias, and unlawful discrimination. Code of Conduct 
training is provided to all Google employees at all levels of the organization, 
and we offer unconscious bias training.
In an effort to accelerate our commitments to be a representative, 
equitable, and respectful workplace, we worked to increase transparency 
around Googlers’ concerns and how we handle them and to increase  
support for people who raise concerns. In 2019, we updated our Internal 
Investigations Report to include a section that provides detail about internal 
sexual harassment investigations as well as expanded sexual harassment 
scenarios that reflect examples of the types of conduct that may result  
in termination of employment. We’ve also publicly shared our Policy on  
Harassment, Discrimination, Retaliation, Standards of Conduct, and Workplace  
Concerns as well as our processes and channels for raising and investigating 
concerns. A global Investigations Care team, the Employee Assistance 
Program, workplace accommodations, and leaves are all options available  
to Googlers who may need them.
In 2020, we announced new workplace commitments that continue to build 
on our efforts to handle concerns with care and foster respect in the workplace. 
This reflects the Alphabet Board’s agreement on a series of industry-leading 
principles and improvements that incorporated input from both employees 
and stockholders, including the creation of a new Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion (DEI) Advisory Council, which comprises internal senior executives 
and external DEI experts. The Board reviews the effectiveness of our sexual 
harassment and retaliation prevention programs and proposed changes.
Building diversity, equity, and inclusion into our workplace, products, and 
society is at the heart of creating a more helpful Google for everyone. When 
we get this right, we ensure that everyone feels like they belong at Google 
and beyond. We believe the greatest contribution we can make is sustained 
action within our workplace, products, and society.
We continue to focus on developing, progressing, and retaining women and 
employees from underrepresented communities at all stages of their careers.  
5
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022For example, in 2021, we hosted a virtual event for employees focused on 
community-building. The event, called Transcend: Elevating Women of Color , 
featured 25 speakers from inside and outside Google who talked about their 
own experiences transcending boundaries. We also hosted an International 
Women’s Day Summit for our employees.
We are also proud to support the Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) that 
provide additional support and community for underrepresented employees 
and their allies. Collectively, more than 35,000 employees across 52 countries 
actively participate as members of our 16 ERGs. These Googler-initiated 
networks are passionate about promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion  
at Google.
We are deepening our efforts to hire and retain underrepresented 
communities at Google, including women in tech all over the world and 
Black+ and Latinx+ people in the U.S. For example, since we began reporting, 
representation of women in tech roles at Google has grown from 16.6% in 
2014 to 25.9% of our global tech workforce in 2021.
In 2020, we made new commitments to build a more inclusive and equitable 
workplace at Google, and we’ve made significant progress toward those 
goals. For example, we set a goal to improve leadership representation of 
Black+, Latinx+, and Native American+ in the U.S. by 30% by 2025. We’ve 
already reached our goal, and we’re on track to double the number of Black+ 
Googlers at all other levels in the U.S. by 2025. 
For more information on our diversity efforts, see Google’s Diversity Annual 
Report .
When someone joins Google, we seek to provide resources to help them 
achieve their personal and professional success and well-being, and Google’s 
efforts in these areas are widely known. In fact, in Universum’s 2021 ranking  
of the World’s Most Attractive Employers, Google was ranked the number  
one employer for the 12th consecutive year, as well as number one for 
Engineering/IT.
We aim to empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their 
role or function within the company, and we provide training that helps them 
develop the skills to do so. We have an e-learning curriculum and conduct 
“Googler-to-Googler” training sessions, where people learn new skills from 
their colleagues. Google subsidizes outside studies related to an employee’s 
job responsibilities and—because we believe that fostering curiosity is key  
to success—also for employees to engage in external training unrelated to 
their function.
Each year, Googlers can share their feedback about key aspects of  
our workplace culture and workplace experience in our annual employee 
engagement survey, known as “Googlegeist.” Almost all employees opt in, 
and the aggregated results are accessible to Googlers at every level of  
the company. The results are used to surface concerns, and every year,  
we make changes based on Googlegeist feedback.
6
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022In terms of physical resources, we build our offices with the goal of providing 
our employees with a first-rate work environment, and we engage in a process 
of continuous re-evaluation with respect to design and functionality to meet 
the needs of our people.
Employee health is extremely important; we want our employees to live 
happy and healthy lives, both in and out of work. Our benefits programs are 
designed to give employees control over their health and well-being and to 
make it easy for them to take care of themselves and their families. Globally, 
new parents, regardless of gender, receive a minimum of 18 weeks of fully 
paid leave to bond with their child (birth parents receive an additional six 
weeks of pregnancy recovery time).
In addition, all new parents globally benefit from a two-week gradual return 
policy (ramping back to work part-time at a full-time salary) and can choose 
flexible working options, such as part-time working and job sharing. We also 
provide baby-bonding benefits, which is a sum of money given to Googlers 
who are new parents to help pay for services that support them during the 
first period of being a parent (e.g., house cleaning, healthy take-out food)  
to allow them to maximize the time and energy they can spend with their  
new family member. Parents and caregivers are also able to use 20 days of 
backup care (refreshed each year), from a provider of their choice when their 
regular care isn’t available. 
Social impact
We know that diversity and inclusion are values critical to our success and 
future innovation. We also know that challenging bias—inside and outside  
our organization—is the right thing to do. That’s why we continue to support 
efforts that fuel our commitments to progress. These commitments require 
us to look at bias through a wider lens: at Google, in the industry, and in 
society. And while progress takes time, our actions today will determine who 
we are in the future. 
Google has set company-wide goals on product accessibility and continues 
to emphasize disability inclusion in our workforce. In 2019, we held our first 
ever Global Disability Alliance ERG summit. This gathering was an opportunity 
for employees from around the world to come together to collaborate and 
discuss strategies for disability inclusion at work and for improving accessibility 
in our products and workplace. 
In 2019, we participated for the first time in the Disability Equality Index, 
which serves as a comprehensive benchmarking tool for disability inclusion. 
We were proud to earn a perfect score on this index in 2019, 2020, and  
again in 2021, and we’re committed to making every Googler feel welcome 
and included.
7
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022Around the world, Google engineers, designers, and marketers are working 
to understand the needs of communities that have been underrepresented  
in tech. Because we’re building for billions of users who may not look or act  
or think like the teams building them, we need to make sure we’re bringing 
different perspectives to the table at key points in the process. We are making 
sustained efforts to drive inclusion by design to enable inclusive products 
such as the Google Assistant. Launched in 2016 and now available in more 
than 90 countries and nearly 30 languages, Google Assistant helps more than 
500 million people every month to get things done across smart speakers 
and Smart Displays, phones, TVs, cars, and more. Before launch, the product 
team worked with our product inclusion team and ERGs to avoid stereotypes, 
historical biases, offensive language, and hate speech. 
We also work with external partners to provide digital skills training for 
everyone, aimed at helping people find jobs or grow their business and career. 
For example, our Grow with Google workshops are designed to help ensure 
that everyone is able to participate in the digital economy. Our training 
programs range from basic online skills, like how websites work and how  
to reach customers with email, to more advanced topics. Google Career 
Certificates , a program we launched in 2018, is focused on equipping  
people with job-ready skills in fields like data analytics, IT support, project 
management, and UX design within three to six months, with no degree or 
experience required. Based on U.S. survey responses, 75% of program 
graduates report an improvement in their career within six months of 
certificate completion.
In 2021, we continued to partner with women’s student organizations—as 
well as student organizations focused on people with disabilities, ethnic 
minorities, Black+ and LGBTQ+ communities, and other underrepresented 
demographics—across over 450 universities in North America and EMEA. 
Also in 2021, Google’s Women Techmakers program reached women around 
the world through over 600 community events and more than 380 speaking 
engagements designed to provide visibility, community, and resources to 
help all women in tech thrive. In support of our commitment to racial equity, 
we also launched the Black Women in Tech campaign—highlighting the stories, 
experiences, and expertise of Black women in tech—which has now been 
viewed by millions of people. Google’s Talent Outreach team launched our first 
virtual International Women’s Day series in 2021, engaging more than 6,500 
women around the world with talks, panels, and hands-on workshops.
In 2020, to promote equity and inclusion beyond Google, we announced a 
$175 million+ economic opportunity package to support Black business owners, 
startup founders, job seekers, and developers, in addition to YouTube’s $100 
million fund to amplify Black creators and artists. Additionally, Google.org 
pledged $12 million to support organizations working to advance racial justice. 
Among them were $1 million grants each to The Leadership Conference 
8
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022Education Fund, the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the NAACP Educational 
Fund’s Policing Reform Campaign, and the Center for Policing Equity.
To support nonprofits in 2020, we committed a total of $1 billion in Ad 
Grants. Since 2003, Ad Grants has provided nonprofits with up to $10,000 
per month in free Search ads to help them attract donors, recruit volunteers, 
and promote their missions. The increased funding went toward nonprofits 
tackling pressing issues like COVID-19 response and recovery—especially  
in hard-hit developing economies—and fighting racial injustice around  
the world.
In March 2021, Google.org launched the global $25 million Impact Challenge 
for Women and Girls to support nonprofits and social organizations around 
the world that are working to advance the economic empowerment of women 
and girls and create pathways to prosperity. Impact Challenge grantees will 
receive funding, mentoring from Googlers, Ad Grants, and additional support 
to bring their ideas to life. Since 2015, Google.org has provided $92 million to 
nonprofit organizations supporting gender equity, and the Impact Challenge 
builds on this long-standing work.
Respect for human rights
We are committed to respecting the human rights enshrined in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and its implementing treaties, as well as upholding 
the standards established in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business  
and Human Rights (UNGPs) and in the Global Network Initiative (GNI) 
Principles.
Google conducts our work on civil rights and human rights through our 
Human Rights Program, a central function consisting of experts in the field 
supporting our efforts to ensure that we are meeting our commitment to  
the UNGPs, GNI Principles, and other civil and human rights instruments. The 
Human Rights Program develops and advances company-wide strategy on 
civil and human rights, advises product teams on potential civil and human 
rights impacts, conducts human rights due diligence, and engages external 
experts and stakeholders. 
Dedicated personnel covering product, regional, and functional areas  
are responsible for the day-to-day operations of protecting our users and 
ensuring compliance with legal requirements. Senior management develops 
the strategy around and oversees the implementation of civil and human rights 
commitments and GNI Principles at Google and provides relevant updates  
to the members of our Audit and Compliance Committee in accordance with 
its Charter, which was amended in 2020 to explicitly include risk oversight  
of civil and human rights issues. The Audit and Compliance Committee also 
provides pertinent reports to the full Board of Directors. 
9
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022We continually enhance and evolve our implementation of our human rights 
commitments. For example, we established a Human Rights Executive Council 
to provide oversight and guidance to our Human Rights Program on global 
human rights and domestic civil rights in the United States. Council members 
represent key product areas and functions across Google and regularly hear 
from the leaders of the Human Rights Program. More information on our 
human rights commitments can be found at Google: Human Rights.
We are founding members of GNI, a multi-stakeholder nongovernmental 
organization working to advance free expression and privacy. The GNI 
Principles are informed by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights, and they concretize Information and Communication Technology 
companies’ responsibility to respect and protect the freedom of expression 
and privacy rights of their users. As part of GNI, we work to support and 
promote human rights, including through improved responsible decision-
making, shared learning, and multi-stakeholder collaboration. As a GNI 
member, Google is subject to a periodic assessment by an independent party 
to review how the company integrates GNI Principles into our governance, 
due diligence and risk management, and operational practices. Based on  
this assessment, the GNI Board determines and states publicly whether a 
member company is compliant with its GNI obligations.
At our foundation, Google’s Code of Conduct sets forth our expectations for 
employees regarding privacy, security, freedom of expression, discrimination, 
harassment, corruption, and compliance with all laws, including anti-modern 
slavery legislation. The Code encourages employees to raise questions or 
concerns and to report suspected violations. Employees failing to follow  
the Code can be subject to disciplinary action, including termination of 
employment. Failure of a Google contractor, consultant, or other covered 
service provider to follow the Code in connection with their services to 
Google can result in termination of their relationship with Google. Our Code 
of Conduct training reinforces the expectation that employees and members 
of our external workforce (temporary workers, vendors, and independent 
contractors)—collectively, “our workers”—follow applicable laws and report 
concerns of illegal or unethical activity. 
We are committed to maintaining a culture that encourages employees  
and others to report concerns related to violations of our Code of Conduct, 
policies, or laws, including our human rights commitments. That is why we 
have adopted and promoted policies that strictly prohibit retaliation of any 
kind for raising such concerns or for participating in an investigation relating 
to such concerns. When we learn about a potential violation of our policies or 
Code of Conduct, we look into the concern consistent with our robust process 
for carefully investigating such allegations and then make appropriate remedial 
recommendations. Throughout this process, we keep information, including 
the identity of the individuals raising the concern, as confidential as possible, 
sharing only on a need-to-know basis. 
10
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022Our commitment extends beyond our own practices to those of our 
suppliers. We have a Supplier Code of Conduct (the “Supplier Code”), which is 
based on the Responsible Business Alliance (formerly the Electronic Industry 
Citizenship Coalition) Code of Conduct; international standards, such as the 
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights; and our own values. The Supplier Code sets 
expectations designed to protect the health, safety, and treatment of 
workers; minimize their environmental impact; combat corruption; respect 
freedom of association and collective bargaining; comply with minimum 
wage laws; and prohibit any form of forced, bonded (including debt bondage), 
or indentured labor, involuntary prison labor, sex trafficking, and slavery or 
trafficking of people.
We expect our suppliers to source only from conflict-free smelters, such  
as those that are compliant with Conflict-Free Smelter Program assessment 
protocols, and work with suppliers to achieve conflict-free sourcing. Alphabet’s 
Conflict Minerals Policy directs suppliers to perform due diligence on the 
source and chain of custody of minerals used to manufacture products  
for Google.
We believe restrictions on the freedom of expression should be consistent 
with international human rights laws or standards and the rule of law and be 
necessary and proportionate for the relevant purpose. We also believe that 
laws around government surveillance of user information should be narrowly 
tailored, transparent, and subject to oversight. We publish Transparency 
Reports , with the mission of sharing data that sheds light on how the policies 
and actions of governments and corporations affect privacy, security, and 
access to information. We’re always looking for ways to improve our 
transparency reporting, and in 2021, we issued supplemental information to 
our Transparency Report focusing on geofence warrants in the United States. 
We also continue to innovate around product-specific transparency with 
YouTube’s industry-leading transparency reporting on how it enforces the 
Community Guidelines. We are committed to tackling the challenge of quickly 
removing content that violates our Community Guidelines and reporting  
on our progress. That is why, in April 2018, we launched a quarterly YouTube 
Community Guidelines enforcement report.
Our Chief Compliance Officer oversees a team focused on combating 
modern slavery in the company’s supply chains and business operations.  
The Chief Compliance Officer provides quarterly updates on the status of  
our Anti-Modern Slavery Program to our Compliance Steering Committee, 
composed of senior executives from across our business. Regular updates  
on the status of the Responsible Supply Chain Program—which includes 
addressing human rights risk, among many other areas—are provided to our 
Supplier Responsibility Steering Team, composed of our Chief Compliance 
Officer and leaders from Google’s direct and indirect supply chains.
11
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022Our Policy Against Modern Slavery prohibits knowingly engaging in or 
supporting human trafficking and child labor practices in our business 
operations. Any violation of our standards by a Google employee can result  
in disciplinary action, including termination of employment. Any violation  
by a supplier can result in contract termination. Our annual Statement  
Against Modern Slavery, which provides more detail on our efforts to ensure 
that modern slavery is not taking place in our supply chains and business 
operations, can be found on our Supplier Responsibility page.
We perform periodic independent third-party audits at hardware and 
non-hardware suppliers’ facilities. The audits include in-depth tours, meetings 
with management, worker interviews, document reviews, and assessments  
of related areas, such as dormitories, cafeterias, wastewater treatment 
facilities, and warehouses. The audit protocol is designed to assess suppliers’ 
performance in the areas covered by our Supplier Code, including human 
rights risk. We work with our suppliers to determine root causes and develop 
corrective action plans for any issues identified during the audit. While our 
audits are announced, our supplier managers are trained to report any 
concerns they might observe on an ongoing basis. In 2021, we published  
our fifth annual Supplier Responsibility Report. This report provides more 
detailed information about our above-mentioned audit and supplier 
engagement efforts. 
As part of our efforts to identify and mitigate human rights risks in our 
supply chain, we also conduct due diligence on our direct suppliers and 
vendors, which include both product and service suppliers, identified as 
having higher risk through our risk assessments. As part of the due diligence 
process, suppliers complete a self-assessment questionnaire about their 
working conditions and management systems. The due diligence process  
also includes background checks, examination of labor-related red flags  
that appear in publicly available databases and media sources, and a review 
of higher-risk suppliers’ names against human trafficking watch lists.
If we discover red flags, we remediate these issues and document them.  
In certain cases, we may decide to no longer pursue a relationship or to 
terminate our current relationship with a supplier. Our workers who manage 
relationships with higher-risk suppliers identified in our risk assessment 
receive supplemental in-person training. In addition, we have an online 
training course that covers all of the aspects of our Supplier Code for our 
workers in roles related to hardware supplier management. This training  
helps our workers identify human rights red flags, shares best practices,  
and instructs our workers to report human rights concerns.
Certain areas of our business, such as our hardware production, present 
human rights risks we’ve been working to eradicate; however, we appreciate 
that there are risks present in many aspects of our business that we must 
continue to work to understand and address. Working to mitigate human 
12
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022rights risk is an ongoing process, and we continually strive to assess this  
risk in all facets of our business. 
Finally, we seek to apply technological innovation to advance social good  
in the diverse communities and contexts in which we operate. Thus, we 
support technology-focused social impact projects and provide resources  
to help nonprofits tackle challenges such as human trafficking, education, and 
economic development through Google’s AI for Social Good program and  
AI Impact Challenge.
Data ethics
We strive to protect our users’ privacy, free expression, and secure access  
to the web when they use Google products. We outline how we safeguard 
privacy and security on our safety site , give users control over their information 
through Google Account , and detail our efforts toward protecting online 
expression and access to information in our statements on freedom of  
expression . We’re also committed to complying with Europe’s General Data 
Protection Regulation. 
In 2018, we updated and improved our Privacy Policy , making it easier  
to understand, adding informative videos that explain our practices, and 
embedding key privacy controls directly in the text. We also updated the 
privacy and security settings in Google Account, which ensures users can 
easily see their data and set their preferences for how Google should store 
and use their information, including pausing or deleting Search or YouTube 
history or disabling personalized ads. In 2019, we introduced auto-delete 
controls , which give you the choice to have Google automatically and 
continuously delete your Location History, search, voice, and YouTube activity 
data after 3 months or 18 months. In 2020, we made auto-delete the default 
for our core activity settings and announced updates to many of our privacy 
tools, including Google Account controls directly from Search, easier access 
to Incognito mode, more proactive privacy controls, and others. In 2021, we 
rolled out end-to-end encrypted calling between Android phones on Google 
Fi and new and stronger safe browsing for Android Messages and Chat, and 
we expanded our VPN services to 10 more countries. We continue to develop 
and improve these and other tools to make them more robust and intuitive.
In June 2018, we announced the Google AI Principles to guide the ethical 
development of our Artificial Intelligence work. In addition to seven objectives 
for AI applications, we have identified four AI applications we will not  
pursue, including designing or deploying AI in technologies whose purpose 
contravenes widely accepted principles of international law and human rights. 
The principles serve as an ethical charter that governs our research and 
product development and impact our business decisions. We established  
a formal review structure to assess new projects, products, and deals for 
13
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022alignment with the principles. This diverse and inclusive structure includes 
senior executives, user researchers, social scientists, ethicists, human rights 
specialists, policy and privacy advisors, legal experts, and senior experts  
from a variety of other disciplines.
Anti-corruption and 
bribery matters
Google recognizes that corruption adversely impacts economic growth  
and disproportionately harms the most vulnerable people and communities 
around the world.
As with our modern slavery efforts, Google’s Chief Compliance Officer 
oversees a legal team dedicated to preventing corruption in the company’s 
business operations and supply chain. The Chief Compliance Officer provides 
quarterly updates on the status of our anti-corruption compliance program  
to the Compliance Steering Committee, and relevant updates to the Audit  
and Compliance Committee of Alphabet’s Board of Directors.
Google’s Code of Conduct requires compliance with anti-bribery laws, 
such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. 
We also have an Anti-Bribery and Government Ethics Policy, which prohibits 
bribery and facilitation payments in our business operations and requires 
legal pre-approvals for certain types of government-related expenses.  
A Google employee, contractor, service provider, supplier, or vendor who 
directly or indirectly gives, offers, or promises anything of value to anyone, 
including government officials, with the corrupt intent to obtain or retain  
any improper advantage will be disciplined up to and including termination  
of employment or business relationship. 
We continually strive to assess corruption risk in all facets of our business. 
As with other companies in our industry, bribery and corruption risks posed 
by working with third parties and intermediaries remain a significant 
corruption risk to Google.
We undertake a number of efforts to mitigate the risk of bribery and 
corruption both in our company’s operations as well as in our supply chain. 
Below are a few key examples:
• We maintain an anti-bribery third-party due diligence program,  
where we conduct documented, risk-based due diligence pertaining  
to the engagement of third parties and channel partners.
• We routinely inform business partners of Google’s commitment to abide  
by anti-bribery laws and seek a reciprocal commitment from them by 
including anti-corruption compliance language in our contracts.
14
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022• We strive to provide risk-based anti-bribery training for employees in 
relevant functions at all levels of the company. Our Code of Conduct training, 
which is administered to all employees, contains an anti-bribery module.  
We also periodically supplement our online trainings with live instruction.  
In 2021, Google had a Code of Conduct training compliance rate of 99.92% 
and an anti-corruption training compliance rate of 97.65%.
• We conduct periodic reviews of the anti-bribery compliance program, 
taking into account relevant developments in the business and field, as  
well as evolving international and industry standards.
• We conduct periodic and documented testing of relevant controls and 
sampling of high-risk transactions. 
• We implement appropriate processes and due diligence procedures to 
analyze potential bribery risks associated with proposed mergers and 
acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and consortia.
• Finally, as previously mentioned, we maintain multiple reporting channels 
whereby employees can raise questions or concerns about the Code of 
Conduct or our anti-bribery policy and report suspected violations.
Google also maintains a policy to implement a risk-based Anti-Money 
Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing Program that is reasonably 
designed to prevent Google from being used to facilitate money laundering 
and finance terrorist activities. This policy ensures compliance with the  
Bank Secrecy Act, EU Money Laundering Directives, the Office of Foreign 
Assets Control, and other related legal obligations.
Financial integrity and fiscal responsibility are core aspects of corporate 
professionalism. This is more than accurate reporting of our financials, though 
that’s certainly important. Each person at Google—not just those in Finance—
has a role in making sure that money is appropriately spent, our financial 
records are complete and accurate, and internal controls are honored. To 
make sure that we get this right, Google maintains a system of internal 
controls to reinforce our compliance with legal, accounting, tax, and other 
regulatory requirements in every location in which we operate. 
Conclusion
In their first letter to shareholders, our founders highlighted Google’s goal to 
“develop services that significantly improve the lives of as many people as 
possible.” This vision continues to guide all of us at Google. We believe in 
technology’s power and potential to have a profoundly positive impact across 
the world. There is much work that remains to be done, and we will continually 
strive to achieve this objective.
15
Google European Union NFRD Report 2022