European Union 
NFRD Report
2019
Published June 2019Contents
1 Reporting principles
2 Google's business model
2 Environmental initiatives
3 Employee matters
5 Social impact
6 Respect of human rights
10 Anti-corruption and bribery matters
11 Conclusion
Reporting principles
We are issuing this report pursuant to the European Union (EU) Non-Financial 
Reporting Directive (NFRD) 2014/95/EU. This report covers the global 
operations of Google LLC and all its subsidiaries. Google LLC itself is a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Alphabet Inc. In 2019, Google Sweden AB—a Swedish 
limited liability company— is the only entity required to report under Directive 
2014/95/EU, according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) (Sw.
Årsredovisningslagen). Therefore, we have also included select information 
and examples specific to Sweden to complement global information.
This report includes summary information on Google’s environmental 
initiatives, employee matters, social impact, respect of human rights, and 
anti-corruption and bribery matters. When available, such as for diversity 
and inclusion data, data covers our 2018 fiscal year (January 1 to December 
31, 2018). When 2018 data is not yet available, such as for most of our 
environmental data, data covers our 2017 fiscal year (January 1 to December 
31, 2017).
For more detailed information on any of these topics, see Google’s 
Commitments page, which highlights our work across five areas: Protecting 
Users, Expanding Opportunity, Including all Voices, Responding to Crises, 
and Advancing Sustainability. Our reports database contains all of our public 
reports pertaining to each of these five areas. Additional information about 
our commitment to corporate responsibility can be found on Alphabet’s 
Investor Relations page.
1
European Union NFRD Report 2019Google’s business model
Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and make it universally 
accessible and useful. Google’s business includes our main products such as 
Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware 
(including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also 
included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; 
sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and 
licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.
For more information on Google’s business model, see Alphabet’s 
annual report.
Environmental initiatives
Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time, 
and we’ve long been committed to improving our energy consumption. 
Operating Google’s business in an environmentally sustainable way has 
been a core value since our founding. We’re focused on tackling our energy 
consumption through a threefold strategy for carbon neutrality. First, we 
pursue aggressive energy efficiency initiatives. Second, we are the largest 
corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the world,1 and for every kilowatt 
hour of electricity we consume, we purchase a kilowatt hour of renewable 
energy from a wind or solar farm that was built specifically for Google. Third, 
we buy high-quality carbon offsets for any remaining emissions we haven’t 
yet eliminated.
Google has been carbon neutral since 2007 and in 2017, we purchased 
enough renewable energy to match 100% of the electricity we consumed 
for our global operations. Since 2010, Google has signed 26 power purchase 
agreements totaling nearly 3 gigawatts of renewable energy. These deals 
have enabled almost EUR 4.2 billion investments in renewable energy projects 
across the globe.
Google’s data centers are the heart of our company, powering products 
like Search, Gmail, and YouTube for billions of people around the world, 24/7. 
For more than a decade, we’ve worked to make Google data centers more 
efficient and have striven to improve their environmental performance even 
as demand for our products has dramatically risen. All Googlers who work 
in our data centers are subject to our Data Center Energy Management 
Policy, which, among other things, calls upon Google to “strive for continual 
improvement of data center energy performance” and to “lead the industry in 
the design, operation, and maintenance of economical, energy-efficient 
data centers.”
In fact, Google data centers use 50% less energy than typical data centers. 
In 2018, the average annual power usage effectiveness (PUE) for our global 
fleet of data centers was 1.11, compared with the industry average of 1.58 — 
2
European Union NFRD Report 20192meaning that Google data centers use about five times less overhead energy. 
In 2018, we maintained ISO 50001 (energy management) certification for 
12 of our 14 Google-owned and -operated data centers globally.
In addition to our operating data centers in Finland, the Netherlands, 
Belgium, and Ireland, Google also has acquired a 109-hectare property 
in Horndal, Avesta Municipality in Sweden. We currently have no plans to 
develop this site, but we bought the land to ensure that we have options to 
expand our data center presence in Europe if our business demands it.
At Google, just as we focus on users in designing our products, we focus 
on our employees in creating healthy workplaces, from our San Francisco Bay 
Area headquarters to Google offices at diverse sites in more than 160 cities 
around the world. At the end of 2017, over 1 million square meters (11.1 million 
square feet) of Google office facilities had achieved Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) certification.
We also put Google technology to work helping others study and respond 
to environmental challenges. We’re working with numerous research and 
nonprofit organizations to map the world’s forests, oceans, watersheds, and 
air quality, then helping to get that information into the hands of decision-
makers. We do this by working with partners to build tools like Global Forest 
Watch, Global Fishing Watch, Project Sunroof, Project Air View, Global Surface 
Water Explorer, PowerExplorer, and the DiSARM platform for malaria 
risk mapping.
For more information about our environmental sustainability initiatives, risk 
assessments, and key performance indicators, see our 2018 Environmental 
Report  and our 2018 CDP Climate Change response. Alphabet has earned 
a position on CDP’s Climate Change A List, which recognizes leadership on 
climate action and transparency, for four consecutive years.
Employee matters
We recognize that our employees are our best assets and critical to our 
continued success. We invest heavily in hiring talented individuals, and we 
seek to hire people with diverse backgrounds and perspectives. 
Google’s Code of Conduct provides a guide as to how our employees are 
expected to live Google’s values as they pursue the company’s mission. This 
includes respect for one another, and for our users. Employees are expected 
to create and preserve a workplace culture that is free of harassment, 
intimidation, bias, and unlawful discrimination. Code of Conduct training is 
provided to all Google employees at all levels of the organization, and we 
offer “unconscious bias” training both online and in-person.
In an effort to accelerate our commitments to be a representative, 
equitable, and respectful workplace, we are increasing transparency in 
3
European Union NFRD Report 20193relation to our Code of Conduct. We are working to provide transparency 
around Googlers' concerns and how we handle them and increased 
support for people who raise concerns. In 2019, we will share our policy 
on Harassment, Discrimination, Retaliation, Standards of Conduct, and 
Workplace Concerns, as well as our processes, and channels for raising 
and investigating concerns. 
When we say we want to build for everyone, we mean everyone. To do 
that well, we need a workforce that’s more representative of the users we 
serve. That’s why diversity, equity, and inclusion are business imperatives 
for Google. They improve outcomes for our employees, our products, and 
our users. As we shared in our 2019 Diversity Report, Google's leaders 
share responsibility for a company-wide goal to foster a representative and 
inclusive workplace for everyone.
We continue to focus on developing, progressing, and retaining women and 
employees from underrepresented communities at all stages of their careers. 
In 2018, we launched new initiatives, including a sponsorship program that 
pairs high-potential women directors with VPs who provide coaching and 
advocacy to advance their careers.
We are also proud to support the Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) that 
provide additional support and community for underrepresented employees 
and their allies. Collectively, more than 25,000 employees actively participate 
as members of our 16 Employee Resource Groups. These Googler-initiated 
networks are passionate about promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion 
at Google.
For more information on our Diversity efforts, see Google’s 2019 
Diversity Report.
When someone joins Google, we seek to provide resources to help them 
achieve their personal and professional success and well-being, and Google’s 
efforts in these areas are widely known. In fact, in Universum’s 2018 ranking of 
Europe’s Most Attractive Employers, Google was ranked number one for both 
Business and Engineering/IT.
We aim to empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their 
role or function within the company, and provide training that helps them 
develop the skills to do so. We have an e-learning curriculum, and conduct 
“Googler-to-Googler” training sessions, where people learn new skills from 
their colleagues. Google subsidizes outside studies related to an employee’s 
job responsibilities, and - - because we believe that fostering curiosity is key 
to success - - Google also provides allowances for employees to engage in 
external training unrelated to their function.
In terms of physical resources, we build our offices with a view to providing 
our employees with a first-rate work environment, and we engage in a 
process of continuous re-evaluation with respect to design and functionality 
to meet the needs of our people.
4
European Union NFRD Report 2019Employee health is extremely important; we want our employees to live 
happy and healthy lives, both in and out of work. Our benefits programs are 
designed to give employees control over their health and well-being, and to 
make it easy for them to take care of themselves and their families.
Globally, new parents, regardless of gender, receive a minimum of 12 weeks 
fully paid leave to bond with their child (birth mothers receive an additional 
10-12 weeks of pregnancy recovery time). In Sweden, we adhere to longer 
statutory parental leave requirements of up to 480 days of leave. Google also 
provides enhanced pay (up to 90% of full salary) for a maximum of 390 days.
In addition, all new parents globally benefit from a 2-week gradual return 
policy (ramping back to work part-time at full-time salary). Google also 
supports all employees (including parents) in availing of flexible working 
options such as part-time working and job-sharing. We also provide baby 
bonding benefits, which is a sum of money given to Googlers who are new 
parents to help pay for services that support them during the first period 
of being a parent (e.g., house cleaning, healthy take-out food, etc.) to allow 
them to maximize the time and energy they can spend with their new 
family member.
Social impact
We know that diversity and inclusion are values critical to our success and 
future innovation. We also know challenging bias–inside and outside our 
organization–is the right thing to do. That’s why we continue to support 
efforts that fuel our commitments to progress. These commitments require 
us to look at bias through a wider lens: at Google, in the industry, and in 
society. And while progress takes time, our actions today will determine who 
we are in the future. 
Around the world, Google engineers, designers, and marketers are working 
to understand the needs of communities who have been underrepresented 
in tech. From Google’s Pixel Camera, to embracing equity in Google’s 
global support services, we are making sustained efforts to drive inclusion 
by design, to enable inclusive products such as the Google Assistant. 
Launched in 2016, it’s now available on more than one billion devices in nearly 
30 languages and 80 countries. In 2018, Swedish was added to the list of 
languages. Before launch, the product team worked with Employee Resource 
Groups to avoid stereotypes, historical biases, offensive language, and 
hate speech.
We also work with external partners to improve our products for everyone. 
For example, our Digital Coaches host workshops as part of the Grow with 
Google program, working with minority- and women-owned businesses that 
are part of Google's Supplier Diversity program.
5
European Union NFRD Report 2019Digitalakademin (Sweden’s Grow with Google program) was founded 
by Google Sweden during the autumn of 2015, in collaboration with the 
government (including Arbetsförmedlingen) and partner Almi. The aim of 
Digitalakademin is to help ensure that everyone is able to participate in the 
digital economy. Our training programs range from basic online skills, like how 
websites work and how to reach customers with email, to more advanced 
topics, like tracking results with analytics and international marketing. 
Through 100,000+ training hours, we have educated 32,000+ people in digital 
skills since launching the program.
On International Women’s Day, 120 Women@Google global chapters from 
52 countries engaged tens of thousands of employees to discuss career 
development and programs to improve our culture. Events also included 
giving back to local communities. For example, we hosted computer 
science workshops for high school girls and digital skills training for women 
entrepreneurs. 
We also partner with Women in Computer Science chapters across 100+ 
universities to host 200+ events annually. These events provide women 
opportunities to develop their technical skills, celebrate their achievements 
through #IamRemarkable workshops, and offer exposure to the tech industry. 
We hosted 19 global Women Techmakers summits and supported more than 
300 community-led meet-ups to empower 25,000 women in the 
tech industry.
We also aim to inspire interest in engineering among young future talent by 
working with local schools and camps, and hosting events such as Introduce 
a Girl to Engineering Day , an annual initiative we support by hosting a group 
of 12- to 19-year-old girls at Google Sweden to give them the opportunity to 
learn about careers in engineering.
Respect of human rights
We are committed to respecting the human rights set forth in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and its implementing treaties, as well as in the 
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the 
Global Network Initiative Principles.
At our foundation, Google’s Code of Conduct sets forth our expectations 
for employees regarding privacy, security, freedom of expression, 
discrimination, harassment, corruption, and compliance with all laws, 
including anti-modern slavery legislation. The Code encourages employees 
to raise questions or concerns about the Code and to report suspected 
violations. Employees failing to follow the Code can be subject to disciplinary 
action, including termination of employment. Failure of a Google contractor, 
consultant, or other covered service provider to follow the Code in 
connection with their services to Google can result in termination of 
6
European Union NFRD Report 2019their relationship with Google. Our Code of Conduct training reinforces 
the expectation that employees, temporary workers, and contractors 
(collectively, “our workers”) follow applicable laws and report concerns of 
illegal or unethical activity. 
Our commitment extends beyond our own employment practices to those 
of our suppliers. We developed a Supplier Code of Conduct (the “Supplier 
Code”), which is based on the Responsible Business Alliance (formerly the 
Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) Code of Conduct; international 
standards, such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; and our own 
values. The Supplier Code sets standards designed to protect the health, 
safety, and treatment of workers; minimize their environmental impact; 
combat corruption; respect freedom of association and collective bargaining; 
comply with minimum wage laws; and prohibit any form of forced, bonded 
(including debt bondage), or indentured labor, involuntary prison labor, sex 
trafficking, and slavery or trafficking of people.
We expect our suppliers to source only from conflict-free smelters, 
such as those that are compliant with Conflict-Free Smelter Program 
(CFSP) assessment protocols, and work with suppliers to achieve conflict-
free sourcing. Our Conflict Minerals Policy directs suppliers to perform 
due diligence on the source and chain of custody of minerals used to 
manufacture products for Google.
We strive to protect our users’ privacy, free expression, and secure 
access to the web when they use Google products. We outline how we 
safeguard privacy and security on our safety site , give users control over their 
information through Google Account , and detail our efforts toward protecting 
online expression and access to information in our statements on freedom of 
expression . We're also committed to complying with Europe's new General 
Data Protection Regulation. In 2018, we updated and improved our Privacy 
Policy , making it easier to understand, adding informative videos that explain 
our practices, and embedding key privacy controls directly in the text. We 
also updated the privacy and security settings in the Google Account, which 
ensures users can easily see their data and set their preferences for how 
Google should store and use their information, including pausing or deleting 
Search or YouTube history or disabling personalized ads. We continue to 
develop and improve these and other tools to make them more robust 
and intuitive.
In June 2018, we announced the Google AI Principles: seven principles to 
guide our Artificial Intelligence work going forward. In addition to these seven 
principles, we have identified AI applications we will not pursue, including 
designing or deploying AI in technologies whose purpose contravenes widely 
accepted principles of international law and human rights. These are concrete 
standards that govern our research and product development and impact our 
7
European Union NFRD Report 2019business decisions. We established a formal review structure to assess new 
projects, products, and deals against the principles. This group includes our 
human rights team, alongside our user researchers, social scientists, ethicists, 
and policy, legal, and privacy advisors.
We are founding members of the Global Network Initiative (GNI), a 
multi-stakeholder non-governmental organization working to advance free 
expression and privacy. The GNI Principles are informed by the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, and they concretize ICT companies’ 
responsibility to respect and promote the freedom of expression and 
privacy rights of their users. As part of GNI, we work to protect, promote, 
and support human rights, including through improved responsible 
decision-making, shared learning, and multi-stakeholder collaboration.
We believe restrictions on the freedom of expression should be consistent 
with international human rights laws or standards, the rule of law, and be 
necessary and proportionate for the relevant purpose. We also believe that 
laws around government surveillance of user information should be narrowly 
tailored, transparent, and subject to oversight. We publish the Transparency 
Report , which sheds light on how laws and policies affect internet users and 
the flow of information online. 
Our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer oversees a team focused on 
combating modern slavery in the company’s supply chains and business 
operations. The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer provides quarterly 
updates on the status of our Anti-Modern Slavery Program to our Compliance 
Steering Committee, composed of senior executives from across our 
business. In addition, our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer provides 
regular updates on our anti-modern slavery efforts to the Audit Committee 
of Alphabet’s Board of Directors. Regular updates on the status of the 
Responsible Supply Chain Program — which includes addressing human rights 
risk, among many other areas — are provided to our Responsible Supply 
Chains Steering Committee, composed of our Chief Ethics and Compliance 
Officer and leaders from Google’s direct and indirect supply chains.
Our Policy Against Modern Slavery prohibits knowingly engaging in or 
supporting human trafficking and child labor practices in our business 
operations. Any violation of our standards by a Google employee can result 
in disciplinary action, including termination of employment. Any violation by 
a supplier can result in contract termination. Recently, we published our third 
annual Modern Slavery Statement, which provides more detail on our efforts 
to ensure that modern slavery is not taking place in our supply chains and 
business operations.
We perform periodic independent third-party audits at hardware and 
non-hardware suppliers’ facilities. The audits include in-depth factory tours, 
meetings with management, on-site worker interviews, document reviews, 
and assessments of related areas, such as dormitories, cafeterias, wastewater 
8
European Union NFRD Report 2019treatment facilities, and warehouses. The audit protocol is designed to assess 
suppliers’ performance in the areas covered by our Supplier Code, including 
human rights risk. We work with our suppliers to determine root causes and 
develop corrective action plans for any issues identified during the audit. 
While our audits are announced, our supplier managers are trained to report 
any concerns they might observe on an ongoing basis. In 2018, we published 
our second annual Responsible Supply Chain Report. This report provides 
more detailed information about our above-mentioned audit and supplier 
engagement efforts. 
As part of our efforts to mitigate human rights risks in our supply chain, we 
also conduct due diligence on our direct suppliers and vendors identified as 
having higher risk through our risk assessments. As part of the due diligence 
process, suppliers complete a self-assessment questionnaire about their 
working conditions and management systems. The due diligence process 
also includes background checks, examination of labor-related red flags that 
appear in publicly available databases and media sources, and a review of 
higher risk suppliers’ names against human trafficking watch lists. In 2018, 
after completing a risk assessment of our contingent workforce suppliers, 
we focused additional due diligence efforts on an identified higher-risk 
population of contingent workforce suppliers.
If we discover red flags, we remediate these issues and document them. 
In certain cases, we may decide to no longer pursue a relationship or to 
terminate our current relationship with a supplier. Our workers who manage 
relationships with higher risk suppliers identified in our risk assessment 
receive supplemental in-person training. In addition, we have an online 
training course that covers all of the aspects of our Supplier Code for our 
workers in roles related to hardware supplier management. This training 
helps our workers identify human rights red flags, shares best practices, and 
instructs our workers to report human rights concerns.
Certain areas of our business, such as our hardware production, present 
human rights risks we have been working to eradicate; however, we 
appreciate that there are risks present in many aspects of our business that 
we must continue to work to understand and address. Working to mitigate 
human rights risk is an ongoing process, and we continually strive to assess 
this risk in all facets of our business. 
Finally, we seek to apply technological innovation to advance social good 
in the diverse communities and contexts in which we operate. Thus, we 
support technology-focused social impact projects and provide resources to 
help nonprofits tackle challenges such as human trafficking, education, and 
economic development through Google’s AI for Social Good Program and 
Social Impact Challenge.
9
European Union NFRD Report 2019Anti-corruption and 
bribery matters
Google recognizes that corruption adversely impacts economic growth 
and disproportionately harms the most vulnerable people and communities 
around the world.
As with our modern slavery efforts, Google’s Chief Ethics and Compliance 
Officer oversees a legal team dedicated to preventing corruption in the 
company’s business operations and supply chain. The Chief Ethics and 
Compliance Officer provides quarterly updates on the status of our 
anti-corruption compliance program to the Compliance Steering Committee, 
as well as the Audit Committee of Alphabet’s Board of Directors.
Google’s Code of Conduct requires compliance with anti-bribery laws, 
such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. 
We also have an Anti-Bribery and Government Ethics Policy, which prohibits 
bribery and facilitation payments in our business operations and requires 
legal pre-approvals for certain types of government-related expenses. A 
Google employee, contractor, service provider, supplier, or vendor who 
directly or indirectly gives, offers, or promises anything of value to anyone, 
including government officials, with the corrupt intent to obtain or retain any 
improper advantage will be disciplined up to and including termination of 
employment or business relationship. 
We continually strive to assess corruption risk in all facets of our business. 
As with other companies in our industry, bribery and corruption risks 
posed by working with third parties and intermediaries remain a significant 
corruption risk to Google.
We undertake a number of efforts to mitigate the risk of bribery and 
corruption both in our company’s operations, as well as in our supply chain. 
Below are a few key examples:
• We maintain an anti-bribery third party due diligence program, where 
we conduct documented, risk-based due diligence pertaining to the 
engagement of third parties and channel partners.
• We routinely inform business partners of Google's commitment to abide by 
anti-bribery laws and seek a reciprocal commitment from them by including 
anti-corruption compliance language in our contracts.
• We strive to provide risk-based anti-bribery training for employees in 
relevant functions at all levels of the company. Our Code of Conduct 
training, which is administered to all employees, contains an anti-bribery 
module. Furthermore, we have a separate training course fully dedicated 
to the topic of anti-bribery and anti-corruption, which we administer to 
certain employees whose roles and responsibilities involve higher risk in this 
10
European Union NFRD Report 2019area. Finally, we also periodically supplement our online trainings with live 
instruction. In 2018, Google had a Code of Conduct training completion rate 
of 99.38% and an anti-corruption training completion rate of 99.50%.
• We conduct periodic reviews of the anti-bribery compliance program, 
taking into account relevant developments in the business and field, as well 
as evolving international and industry standards.
• We conduct periodic and documented testing of relevant controls and 
sampling of high-risk transactions. 
• We implement appropriate processes and due diligence procedures to 
analyze potential bribery risks associated with proposed mergers and 
acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and consortia.
• Finally, as previously mentioned, we maintain multiple reporting channels 
whereby employees can raise questions or concerns about the Code of 
Conduct or our anti-bribery policy and to report suspected violations.
Conclusion
In their first letter to shareholders, our founders highlighted Google’s goal 
to “develop services that significantly improve the lives of as many people 
as possible.” This vision continues to guide all of us at Google. We believe in 
technology’s power and potential to have a profoundly positive impact across 
the world. There is much work that remains to be done, and we will continually 
strive to achieve this objective.
Endnote
1. Bloomberg New Energy Finance database for wind and solar energy PPAs, as of December 31, 2017.
11
European Union NFRD Report 2019