European Union 
NFRD Report
2020
Published June 2020Contents
1 Reporting principles
2 Google’s business model
2 Environmental initiatives
3 Employee matters
5 Social impact
6 Respect of human rights
10 Anti-corruption and bribery matters
12 Conclusion
Reporting principles
We are issuing this report pursuant to the European Union (EU) non-financial 
reporting directive (NFRD) 2014/95/EU. This report covers the global 
operations of Google LLC and all its subsidiaries. Google LLC itself is a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Alphabet Inc. In 2020, Google Sweden AB—a Swedish 
limited liability company—is the only entity required to report under Directive 
2014/95/EU, according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554)  
(Sw.Årsredovisningslagen).
This report includes summary information on Google’s environmental 
initiatives, employee matters, social impact, respect of human rights,  
and anti-corruption and bribery matters. When available, such as for  
diversity and inclusion data, data covers our 2019 fiscal year (January 1 to 
December 31, 2019). When 2019 data is not yet available, such as for most 
of our environmental data, data covers our 2018 fiscal year (January 1 to 
December 31, 2018).
For more detailed information on any of these topics, see Google’s 
Commitments page , which highlights our work across five areas: Protecting 
users, Expanding opportunity, Including all voices, Responding to crises,  
and Advancing sustainability. Our Reports database  contains all of our  
public reports pertaining to each of these five areas. Additional information 
about our commitment to corporate responsibility can be found on 
Alphabet’s Investor Relations page .
1
European Union NFRD Report 2020Google’s business model
Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and make it universally 
accessible and useful. Google’s business includes our main products such as 
ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, 
Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. 
Google generates revenues primarily by delivering both performance 
advertising and brand advertising. We continue to look to the future and are 
making long-term investments that will grow revenues beyond advertising, 
including Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware, and YouTube. We are 
also investing in research efforts in AI and quantum computing to foster 
innovation across our businesses and create new opportunities.
For more information on Google’s business model, see Alphabet’s  
annual report .
Environmental initiatives
Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time, 
and we’ve long been committed to improving our energy consumption. 
Operating Google’s business in an environmentally sustainable way has been 
a core value since our founding.
We’re focused on tackling our energy consumption through a threefold 
strategy for carbon neutrality. First, we work to reduce our total energy 
consumption by pursuing aggressive energy efficiency initiatives. Second, we 
match 100% of the electricity consumption of our operations with purchases 
of renewable energy; we’re the largest corporate purchaser of renewable 
energy in the world.1 Third, we buy high-quality carbon offsets for any 
remaining emissions we haven’t yet eliminated.
Google has been carbon neutral since 2007, and in 2019, we purchased 
enough renewable energy to match 100% of the electricity we consumed 
for our global operations for the third consecutive year. Since 2010, Google 
has signed more than 50 power purchase agreements totaling more than 5 
gigawatts of renewable energy. These deals have enabled almost $7 billion in 
investments in renewable energy projects across the globe.
Google’s data centers are the heart of our company, powering products 
like Search, Gmail, and YouTube for billions of people around the world, 24/7. 
For more than a decade, we’ve worked to make Google data centers more 
efficient and have striven to improve their environmental performance even 
as demand for our products has dramatically risen. On average, a Google 
data center is twice as energy efficient as a typical enterprise data center. 
In 2019, the average annual power usage effectiveness (PUE) for our global 
fleet of data centers was 1.10, compared with the industry average of 1.672—
meaning that Google data centers use about six times less overhead energy 
for every unit of IT equipment energy.
2
European Union NFRD Report 20202At Google, just as we focus on users in designing our products, we focus 
on our employees in creating healthy workplaces, from our San Francisco Bay 
Area headquarters to Google offices at diverse sites in more than 150 cities 
around the world. At the end of 2018, over 1.2 million square meters (13 million 
square feet) of Google office facilities had achieved Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) certification.
We also put Google technology to work helping others study and respond 
to environmental challenges. We’re working with numerous research and 
nonprofit organizations to map the world’s forests, oceans, watersheds, and 
air quality, then helping to get that information into the hands of decision-
makers. We do this by working with partners to build tools like Global Forest 
Watch, Global Fishing Watch, Project Sunroof, Project Air View, Global Surface 
Water Explorer, and the DiSARM platform for malaria risk mapping.
For more information about our environmental sustainability initiatives, risk 
assessments, and key performance indicators, see our 2019 Environmental 
Report  and our 2019 CDP Climate Change response . Alphabet has earned 
a position on CDP’s Climate Change A List, which recognizes leadership on 
climate action and transparency, for five consecutive years.
Employee matters
We recognize that our employees are our best assets and critical to our 
continued success. We invest heavily in hiring talented individuals, and we 
seek to hire people with diverse backgrounds and perspectives. 
Google’s Code of Conduct  provides a guide as to how our employees are 
expected to put Google’s values into practice as they pursue the company’s 
mission. This includes respect for one another and for our users. Employees 
are expected to create and preserve a workplace culture that is free of 
harassment, intimidation, bias, and unlawful discrimination. Code of Conduct 
training is provided to all Google employees at all levels of the organization, 
and we offer unconscious bias training both online and in person.
In an effort to accelerate our commitments to be a representative, 
equitable, and respectful workplace, we are increasing transparency around 
Googlers’ concerns and how we handle them, as well as increasing support 
for people who raise concerns. In 2019, we updated our Internal Investigations 
Report to include a new section providing detail about internal sexual 
harassment investigations as well as expanded sexual harassment scenarios 
that reflect examples of the types of conduct that may result  
in termination of employment. Last year we also publicly shared our  
Policy on Harassment, Discrimination, Retaliation, Standards of Conduct,  
and Workplace Concerns , as well as our processes and channels for raising 
and investigating concerns.
3
European Union NFRD Report 20203When we say we want to build for everyone, we mean everyone. To do 
that well, we need a workforce that’s more representative of the users we 
serve. That’s why diversity, equity, and inclusion are business imperatives for 
Google. They improve outcomes for our employees, our products, and our 
users. Google’s leaders share responsibility for a company-wide goal to foster 
a representative, accessible, and inclusive workplace for everyone.
We continue to focus on developing, progressing, and retaining women 
and employees from underrepresented communities at all stages of their 
careers. For example, in 2019, Google hosted five Women of Color summits 
with a combined total attendance of nearly 1,500 women of color from over 
20 countries. These summits provided an opportunity for employees to learn 
more about diversity strategy, connect with their communities, and directly 
engage with senior leadership.
We are also proud to support the Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) that 
provide additional support and community for underrepresented employees 
and their allies. Collectively, more than 35,000 employees across 52 countries 
actively participate as members of our 16 ERGs. These Googler-initiated 
networks are passionate about promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion  
at Google.
Underrepresented communities within Google have grown significantly 
faster than Google as a whole. For example, since we began reporting in 
2014, representation of women in tech roles at Google has grown from 
16.6% to 23.6% of our global tech workforce, and representation of Black+ 
Googlers in the U.S. has grown from 2.4% to 3.7%. For the second year in a 
row, representation of women in leadership roles globally at Google grew 
0.6%, reaching 26.7%.  Given Google’s growth rate, this progress represents 
thousands of new underrepresented employees joining our ranks in the last 
six years.
For more information on our diversity efforts, see Google’s 2020  
Diversity Report .
When someone joins Google, we seek to provide resources to help them 
achieve their personal and professional success and well-being, and Google’s 
efforts in these areas are widely known. In fact, in Universum’s 2019 ranking 
of the World’s Most Attractive Employers , Google was ranked the number 
one employer for the 10th consecutive year, as well as number one for 
Engineering/IT.
We aim to empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their 
role or function within the company, and we provide training that helps them 
develop the skills to do so. We have an e-learning curriculum and conduct 
“Googler-to-Googler” training sessions, where people learn new skills from 
their colleagues. Google subsidizes outside studies related to an employee’s 
job responsibilities and—because we believe that fostering curiosity is key  
to success—also for employees to engage in external training unrelated to 
their function.
4
European Union NFRD Report 2020In terms of physical resources, we build our offices with the goal of 
providing our employees with a first-rate work environment, and we  
engage in a process of continuous re-evaluation with respect to design  
and functionality to meet the needs of our people.
Employee health is extremely important; we want our employees to live 
happy and healthy lives, both in and out of work. Our benefits programs are 
designed to give employees control over their health and well-being and to 
make it easy for them to take care of themselves and their families. Globally, 
new parents, regardless of gender, receive a minimum of 12 weeks of fully 
paid leave to bond with their child (birth mothers receive an additional 10–12 
weeks of pregnancy recovery time).
In addition, all new parents globally benefit from a two-week gradual return 
policy (ramping back to work part-time at full-time salary). Google also 
supports all employees (including parents) in availing themselves of flexible 
working options such as part-time working and job sharing. We also provide 
baby-bonding benefits, which is a sum of money given to Googlers who are 
new parents to help pay for services that support them during the first period 
of being a parent (e.g., house cleaning, healthy take-out food) to allow them to 
maximize the time and energy they can spend with their new family member.
Social impact
We know that diversity and inclusion are values critical to our success and 
future innovation. We also know that challenging bias—inside and outside 
our organization—is the right thing to do. That’s why we continue to support 
efforts that fuel our commitments to progress. These commitments require 
us to look at bias through a wider lens: at Google, in the industry, and in 
society. And while progress takes time, our actions today will determine who 
we are in the future. 
Google has set company-wide goals to ensure that each of our products 
is highly accessible and to continue our emphasis on disability inclusion in our 
workforce. In 2019, we held our first ever Global Disability Alliance ERG summit. 
This gathering was an opportunity for employees from around the world to 
come together to collaborate and discuss strategies for disability inclusion at 
work and for improving accessibility in our products and workplace. 
In 2019, we participated in the Disability Equality Index , which serves as a 
comprehensive benchmarking tool for disability inclusion. We were proud to 
earn a top score on this index and are committed to making every Googler 
feel welcome and included. Measuring inclusion is nuanced, and these are 
just a few of the tools that allow us to do our work.
Around the world, Google engineers, designers, and marketers are working 
to understand the needs of communities who have been underrepresented 
in tech. Because we’re building for billions of users who may not look or act 
5
European Union NFRD Report 2020or think like the teams building them, we need to make sure we’re bringing 
different perspectives to the table at key points in the process. We are making 
sustained efforts to drive inclusion by design to enable inclusive products 
such as the Google Assistant. Launched in 2016, it’s now available in  
42 languages and more than 90 countries, helping more than 500 million 
people every month. Before launch, the product team worked with our 
product inclusion team and ERGs to avoid stereotypes, historical biases, 
offensive language, and hate speech. 
We also work with external partners to provide digital skills training for 
everyone, aimed at helping people find jobs or grow their business and 
career. For example, our Grow with Google  in-person coaching workshops 
provide help for women-owned businesses that are part of Google’s Supplier 
Diversity program. The aim of Grow with Google is to help ensure that 
everyone is able to participate in the digital economy. Our training programs 
range from basic online skills, like how websites work and how to reach 
customers with email, to more advanced topics, like tracking results with 
analytics and international marketing. 
On International Women’s Day in 2019, 120 Women@Google global chapters 
from 52 countries engaged tens of thousands of employees to discuss career 
development and programs to improve our culture. As part of this day, Grow 
with Google in Europe, Middle East, and Africa partnered with Inspiring Girls 
International to launch a video hub  of filmed talks by diverse female role 
models as a go-to motivational resource for young girls.
We partnered with women’s student organizations across more than  
235 universities in the United States and Europe to host nearly 950 events  
in 2019. We also hosted 19 global Women Techmakers summits and  
supported more than 300 community-led meet-ups across 87 countries 
to empower more than 35,000 women in the tech industry. These events 
provide women opportunities to develop their technical skills, celebrate their 
achievements through #IamRemarkable workshops, and continue to build 
networks in the tech industry. 
Respect of human rights
We are committed to respecting the human rights set forth in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights  and its implementing treaties, as well as in  
the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  and the 
Global Network Initiative Principles .
At our foundation, Google’s Code of Conduct  sets forth our expectations 
for employees regarding privacy, security, freedom of expression, 
discrimination, harassment, corruption, and compliance with all laws, 
including anti-modern slavery legislation. The Code encourages employees 
to raise questions or concerns about the Code and to report suspected 
6 European Union NFRD Report 2020violations. Employees failing to follow the Code can be subject to disciplinary 
action, including termination of employment. Failure of a Google contractor, 
consultant, or other covered service provider to follow the Code in 
connection with their services to Google can result in termination of 
their relationship with Google. Our Code of Conduct training reinforces 
the expectation that employees, temporary workers, and contractors 
(collectively, “our workers”) follow applicable laws and report concerns of 
illegal or unethical activity. 
Our commitment extends beyond our own employment practices to those 
of our suppliers. We have a Supplier Code of Conduct  (the “Supplier Code”), 
which is based on the Responsible Business Alliance (formerly the Electronic 
Industry Citizenship Coalition) Code of Conduct ; international standards, such 
as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights; and our own values. The Supplier Code sets 
standards designed to protect the health, safety, and treatment of workers; 
minimize their environmental impact; combat corruption; respect freedom  
of association and collective bargaining; comply with minimum wage 
laws; and prohibit any form of forced, bonded (including debt bondage), 
or indentured labor, involuntary prison labor, sex trafficking, and slavery or 
trafficking of people.
We expect our suppliers to source only from conflict-free smelters, such 
as those that are compliant with Conflict-Free Smelter Program assessment 
protocols, and work with suppliers to achieve conflict-free sourcing. Our 
Conflict Minerals Policy  directs suppliers to perform due diligence on the 
source and chain of custody of minerals used to manufacture products  
for Google.
We strive to protect our users’ privacy, free expression, and secure 
access to the web when they use Google products. We outline how we 
safeguard privacy and security on our safety site , give users control over their 
information through Google Account , and detail our efforts toward protecting 
online expression and access to information in our statements on freedom of 
expression . We’re also committed to complying with Europe’s new General 
Data Protection Regulation. In 2018, we updated and improved our Privacy 
Policy , making it easier to understand, adding informative videos that explain 
our practices, and embedding key privacy controls directly in the text. We also 
updated the privacy and security settings in Google Account, which ensures 
users can easily see their data and set their preferences for how Google 
should store and use their information, including pausing or deleting Search 
or YouTube history or disabling personalized ads. We continue to develop and 
improve these and other tools to make them more robust and intuitive.
In June 2018, we announced the Google AI Principles : seven principles to 
guide the ethical development of our Artificial Intelligence work. In addition 
to these seven principles, we have identified AI applications we will not 
7 European Union NFRD Report 2020pursue, including designing or deploying AI in technologies whose purpose 
contravenes widely accepted principles of international law and human 
rights. These are concrete standards that govern our research and product 
development and impact our business decisions. We established  a formal 
review structure  to assess new projects, products, and deals for alignment 
with the principles. This diverse and inclusive group of Googlers includes 
senior executives, user researchers, social scientists, ethicists, human rights 
specialists, policy and privacy advisors, legal experts, and senior experts from 
a variety of other disciplines.
We are founding members of the Global Network Initiative  (GNI), a 
multi-stakeholder nongovernmental organization working to advance free 
expression and privacy. The GNI Principles are informed by the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, and they concretize Information 
and Communication Technology companies’ responsibility to respect and 
promote the freedom of expression and privacy rights of their users. As part 
of GNI, we work to protect, promote, and support human rights, including 
through improved responsible decision-making, shared learning, and multi-
stakeholder collaboration. Senior management oversees the implementation 
of the human rights and GNI Principles at Google and provides quarterly 
updates on relevant issues to the members of our Board of Directors.
We believe restrictions on the freedom of expression should be consistent 
with international human rights laws or standards and the rule of law and  
be necessary and proportionate for the relevant purpose. We also believe  
that laws around government surveillance of user information should 
be narrowly tailored, transparent, and subject to oversight . We publish 
Transparency Reports , which shed light on how laws and policies affect 
internet users and the flow of information online.
Recent examples of Google’s work on human rights issues include 
developments in content quality policies and facial recognition applications. 
On content quality, one of the most complex and constantly evolving areas 
we deal with is hate speech. In 2019, YouTube took a close look at its approach 
towards hateful content in consultation with dozens of experts in subjects like 
violent extremism, supremacism, civil rights, and free speech. Based on those 
learnings, YouTube made several updates to its hate speech policy including 
removing more hateful and supremacist content, reducing borderline content 
and raising up authoritative voices, and continuing to reward trusted creators 
and enforce monetization policies. Similarly, our ongoing work on information 
integrity led to the release of a white paper  in 2019 detailing our work to 
tackle the intentional spread of disinformation across Google Search, Google 
News, YouTube, and its advertising systems.
In 2019, in collaboration with independent experts using the UN’s 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as a framework, Google 
commissioned a formal human rights impact assessment (HRIA) of the 
8
European Union NFRD Report 2020Celebrity Recognition tool and technology’s potential impact on human 
rights. The HRIA played an essential role in shaping the application program 
interface’s capabilities and the policies established around them, and we 
publicly released a summary of the HRIA . 
Our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer oversees a team focused on 
combating modern slavery in the company’s supply chains and business 
operations. The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer provides quarterly 
updates on the status of our Anti-Modern Slavery Program to our Compliance 
Steering Committee, composed of senior executives from across our 
business. In addition, our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer provides 
regular updates on our anti-modern slavery efforts to the Audit Committee 
of Alphabet’s Board of Directors. Regular updates on the status of the 
Responsible Supply Chain Program—which includes addressing human rights 
risk, among many other areas—are provided to our Responsible Supply 
Chains Steering Committee, composed of our Chief Ethics and Compliance 
Officer and leaders from Google’s direct and indirect supply chains.
Our Policy Against Modern Slavery  prohibits knowingly engaging in or 
supporting human trafficking and child labor practices in our business 
operations. Any violation of our standards by a Google employee can result 
in disciplinary action, including termination of employment. Any violation by a 
supplier can result in contract termination. Recently, we published our fourth 
annual Modern Slavery Statement , which provides more detail on our efforts 
to ensure that modern slavery is not taking place in our supply chains and 
business operations.
We perform periodic independent third-party audits at hardware and 
non-hardware suppliers’ facilities. The audits include in-depth factory tours, 
meetings with management, on-site worker interviews, document reviews, 
and assessments of related areas, such as dormitories, cafeterias, wastewater 
treatment facilities, and warehouses. The audit protocol is designed to assess 
suppliers’ performance in the areas covered by our Supplier Code, including 
human rights risk. We work with our suppliers to determine root causes and 
develop corrective action plans for any issues identified during the audit. 
While our audits are announced, our supplier managers are trained to report 
any concerns they might observe on an ongoing basis. In 2019, we published 
our third annual Responsible Supply Chain Report . This report provides 
more detailed information about our above-mentioned audit and supplier 
engagement efforts. 
As part of our efforts to mitigate human rights risks in our supply chain, 
we also conduct due diligence on our direct suppliers and vendors, which 
include both product and service suppliers, identified as having higher risk 
through our risk assessments. As part of the due diligence process, suppliers 
complete a self-assessment questionnaire about their working conditions 
and management systems. The due diligence process also includes 
9
European Union NFRD Report 2020background checks, examination of labor-related red flags that appear in 
publicly available databases and media sources, and a review of higher-risk 
suppliers’ names against human trafficking watch lists.
If we discover red flags, we remediate these issues and document them. 
In certain cases, we may decide to no longer pursue a relationship or to 
terminate our current relationship with a supplier. Our workers who manage 
relationships with higher-risk suppliers identified in our risk assessment 
receive supplemental in-person training. In addition, we have an online 
training course that covers all of the aspects of our Supplier Code for our 
workers in roles related to hardware supplier management. This training 
helps our workers identify human rights red flags, shares best practices, and 
instructs our workers to report human rights concerns.
Certain areas of our business, such as our hardware production, present 
human rights risks we have been working to eradicate; however, we 
appreciate that there are risks present in many aspects of our business that 
we must continue to work to understand and address. Working to mitigate 
human rights risk is an ongoing process, and we continually strive to assess 
this risk in all facets of our business. 
Finally, we seek to apply technological innovation to advance social good 
in the diverse communities and contexts in which we operate. Thus, we 
support technology-focused social impact projects and provide resources to 
help nonprofits tackle challenges such as human trafficking, education, and 
economic development through Google’s AI for Social Good  program and 
Social Impact Challenge . 
Anti-corruption and  
bribery matters
Google recognizes that corruption adversely impacts economic growth 
and disproportionately harms the most vulnerable people and communities 
around the world.
As with our modern slavery efforts, Google’s Chief Ethics and Compliance 
Officer oversees a legal team dedicated to preventing corruption in the 
company’s business operations and supply chain. The Chief Ethics and 
Compliance Officer provides quarterly updates on the status of our anti-
corruption compliance program to the Compliance Steering Committee, as 
well as the Audit Committee of Alphabet’s Board of Directors.
Google’s Code of Conduct  requires compliance with anti-bribery laws, 
such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. 
We also have an Anti-Bribery and Government Ethics Policy, which prohibits 
bribery and facilitation payments in our business operations and requires 
legal pre-approvals for certain types of government-related expenses. A 
10
European Union NFRD Report 2020Google employee, contractor, service provider, supplier, or vendor who 
directly or indirectly gives, offers, or promises anything of value to anyone, 
including government officials, with the corrupt intent to obtain or retain any 
improper advantage will be disciplined up to and including termination of 
employment or business relationship. 
We continually strive to assess corruption risk in all facets of our business. 
As with other companies in our industry, bribery and corruption risks 
posed by working with third parties and intermediaries remain a significant 
corruption risk to Google.
We undertake a number of efforts to mitigate the risk of bribery and 
corruption both in our company’s operations as well as in our supply chain. 
Below are a few key examples:
• We maintain an anti-bribery third-party due diligence program, where 
we conduct documented, risk-based due diligence pertaining to the 
engagement of third parties and channel partners.
• We routinely inform business partners of Google’s commitment to abide by 
anti-bribery laws and seek a reciprocal commitment from them by including 
anti-corruption compliance language in our contracts.
• We strive to provide risk-based anti-bribery training for employees in 
relevant functions at all levels of the company. Our Code of Conduct 
training, which is administered to all employees, contains an anti-bribery 
module. Furthermore, we have a separate training course fully dedicated 
to the topic of anti-bribery and anti-corruption, which we administer to 
certain employees whose roles and responsibilities involve higher risk in this 
area. Finally, we also periodically supplement our online trainings with live 
instruction. In 2019, Google had a Code of Conduct training compliance rate 
of 99.47% and an anti-corruption training compliance rate of 98.85%.
• We conduct periodic reviews of the anti-bribery compliance program, 
taking into account relevant developments in the business and field, as well 
as evolving international and industry standards.
• We conduct periodic and documented testing of relevant controls and 
sampling of high-risk transactions. 
• We implement appropriate processes and due diligence procedures to 
analyze potential bribery risks associated with proposed mergers and 
acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and consortia.
• Finally, as previously mentioned, we maintain multiple reporting channels 
whereby employees can raise questions or concerns about the Code of 
Conduct or our anti-bribery policy and report suspected violations.
11
European Union NFRD Report 2020Endnotes
1. Bloomberg New Energy Finance database for wind and solar energy power purchase agreements,  
as of December 31, 2019.
2. According to the Uptime Institute ’s 2019 Data Center Industry Survey , the global average PUE of 
respondents’ largest data centers was around 1.67.Conclusion
In their first letter to shareholders , our founders highlighted Google’s goal 
to “develop services that significantly improve the lives of as many people 
as possible.” This vision continues to guide all of us at Google. We believe in 
technology’s power and potential to have a profoundly positive impact across 
the world. There is much work that remains to be done, and we will continually 
strive to achieve this objective.
12
European Union NFRD Report 2020