Sustainability Report 
Highlights
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, ExxonMobil temporarily reconfigured manufacturing 
operations in Louisiana to produce, blend, package and distribute hand sanitizer .Table of Contents2 | Sustainability Report Highlights
04 08 15 28 34
03  U.N. Sustainable Development  
       Goals  
04  Chairman’s letter
05  ExxonMobil and sustainability
06  2019 global operations
07  Stakeholder engagement ENVIRONMENT
09  Excerpt: ExxonMobil 2021 
       Energy & Carbon Summary    
11  Plastic waste management SOCIAL
16  Safety 
19  Healthy and engaged workforce
22  Human rights 
25  Community investmentsGOVERNANCE
29  Ethics and integrity 
30  Board leadership
32  Engaging with governments34  Case study: COVID-19 response
38  About the Sustainability 
       Report Highlights
39  Performance data
Outlooks, projections, estimates, goals, descriptions of business and community plans, research efforts and other statements of 
future events or conditions in this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including financial and operating 
performance, returns to investors and other areas of financial and operating performance, future global energy supply, demand 
growth and mix, the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on global demand, future distributions, proved and 
other reserves, reserve and resource additions and recoveries, the future effectiveness of safety, health, environmental and other 
sustainability risk and impact management processes, efficiency gains, and the timing and impact of future technologies on 
capital efficiency, production and greenhouse gas emissions could differ materially due to factors, including:  
•Changes in global or regional demand, supply and pricing for oil, natural gas, chemicals, feedstocks and other pricing factors  
   affecting the oil, natural gas, petroleum and petrochemical industries such as regional or global supply and demand  
   imbalances and differentials;  
Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names including ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso and XTO Energy. For convenience and simplicity, those terms (and terms such as corporation, company, our , we and its) are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. ExxonMobil is a publicly traded company. The New 
York Stock Exchange is the principal exchange on which Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock (symbol XOM) is traded. References to the resources, resource base, and recoverable resources, along with similar terms refer to the total remaining estimated quantities of oil and natural gas that are expected to be ultimately recoverable. ExxonMobil refers to new 
discoveries and acquisitions of discovered resources as resource additions. The resource base includes quantities of oil and natural gas classified as proved reserves, as well as quantities that are not yet classified as proved reserves, but that are expected to be ultimately recoverable. The term “resource base” is not intended to correspond to SEC definitions such as 
“probable” or “possible” reserves. The term “in-place” refers to those quantities of oil and natural gas estimated to be contained in known accumulations and includes recoverable and unrecoverable amounts. “Potential” resource amounts are not currently included in the resource base. The term “project” as used in this release can refer to a variety of different activities 
and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency reports.•Political and regulatory factors, including war , government responses to separate waves of the COVID-19 pandemic, security disturbances, national tax policies, trade policies, environmental policies and the impact of 
international accords and treaties;  
•Changes in population size, purchasing power and consumer preferences;  
•The timely completion of current exploration, development and construction projects;  
•Actions of competitors, including the development of competing product or emission technologies;  
•The outcome of current and future research efforts and the ability to bring new technologies to commercial scale on a cost-competitive basis;  
•Technical and operating factors; and;  
•Other factors discussed in the document, Factors Affecting Future Results.
All forward-looking statements are based on management’s knowledge and reasonable expectations at the time of publication, and we assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date.Sustainability Report Highlights  
Editor’s Note: This publication was issued in January 2021, using the latest set 
of full-year performance data (2019). The next report will include YE2020 data.On the cover
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, ExxonMobil temporarily reconfigured manufacturing 
operations in Louisiana to produce, blend, package and distribute hand sanitizer .Addressing the United Nations   
Sustainable Development Goals
The United Nations has adopted the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) to achieve significant progress on global economic, 
social and environmental challenges by 2030. Although directed 
at governments, the private sector and civil society play an 
important role in support of governments’ national plans.
ExxonMobil contributes to certain aspects of all 17 SDGs. In this 
report, we feature eight SDGs to which we are making significant 
contributions. For additional information, visit the Sustainability 
Report content index.3 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Darren W. Woods
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
4 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Darren W. Woods, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer .Chairman’s letter
At ExxonMobil, we strive to deliver superior results 
while providing products and services that are 
essential to the health and welfare of billions of people 
around the world. How we achieve these results is 
as important as the results themselves. That is why 
we are committed to operating our businesses in a 
responsible and sustainable manner , supplying  
high-quality products, working to minimize 
environmental impacts and supporting the 
communities where we live and work.
These efforts are outlined in our latest Sustainability Report  
and its companion publication, the Energy & Carbon Summary, 
which showcases efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Few would disagree that one of the most urgent societal 
challenges we face today is addressing the risks of climate 
change. How we meet the world’s demand for the energy 
necessary for economic growth while mitigating the long-term 
impact on our environment is key to our sustainable future.
We are making progress in this area through a variety of actions 
including enhancing energy efficiency across our operations, 
improving leak detection and repair and increasing cogeneration 
capacity at manufacturing facilities. 
As a result of these efforts, we expect to meet our goal to 
decrease methane emissions by 15 percent and flaring by 
25 percent by 2020, compared to 2016 levels. We recently 
outlined a new five-year plan to further reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions from our operations in support of the goals of the 
Paris Agreement. 
We plan to reduce the intensity of our operated upstream 
greenhouse gas emissions by 15 to 20 percent by 2025, 
compared to 2016 levels. This plan will be supported by a  
40 to 50 percent decrease in methane intensity, and a  
35 to 45 percent decrease in flaring intensity across our global 
operations. Ultimately, we aim for industry-leading greenhouse 
gas performance across our businesses by 2030.  We also plan to align with the World Bank’s initiative to 
eliminate routine flaring by 2030 – a continuation of the strict 
flaring protocols we adopted for our U.S. unconventional 
operations in 2019 – and we proposed a model regulatory 
framework for our industry to mitigate methane emissions from 
new and existing oil and gas operations. 
The steps we are taking to reduce emissions reflect 
ExxonMobil’s commitment to addressing the risks of climate 
change. We also continue to invest in lower-emission 
technologies, such as carbon capture and advanced biofuels, 
which are necessary for society to achieve its ambition for net 
zero emissions by 2050.
Other key dimensions of sustainability performance include: 
• Taking action to help society address plastic waste in the 
environment by working on advanced recycling solutions 
and having no reportable plastic pellet losses for two 
consecutive years;
• Achieving a historically low rate of high-consequence 
injuries, extending a multiyear improvement trend 
• Increasing representation of women executives by  
69 percent since 2009;
• Increasing representation of minority executives in the 
United States by 80 percent since 2009;
• Contributing more than $250 million in communities 
worldwide to address key needs such as health care, 
disaster relief, education and economic development;
• Expanding human rights training with more than  
1,800 employees across 49 countries completing  
training since 2015.
These actions demonstrate our commitment to responsibly 
and sustainably running our businesses and the resilience and 
excellence of our people who respond and adapt to  
new challenges. 
That adaptability was critically important in responding to 
the COVID-19 global pandemic. I am proud of the way our 
company and our people delivered assistance to governments, 
health care personnel and first responders around the world 
while safely providing an uninterrupted supply of vital  
energy products.We boosted production of isopropyl alcohol, the key 
ingredient in hand sanitizer , and polypropylene, critical for 
the manufacture of medical masks and surgical gowns. 
One of our U.S. manufacturing facilities even temporarily 
reconfigured its operations to directly manufacture hand 
sanitizer to meet increased demand.
Further details on our response to the pandemic, our overall 
sustainability efforts and our work to manage the risks of 
climate change are included in our Sustainability Report  
and Energy & Carbon Summary. I hope you find these 
reports useful and informative in understanding more about 
ExxonMobil’s positive contribution to society. 
Thank you for your interest, and we welcome your feedback.
Sincerely,Sustainability
SocialEnvironment
GovernanceManaging the risks
of climate changeEnvironmentalperformanceCorporate
governance
engagement andCommunity
human rightsdevelopment andLocalsupply chain managementand the workplace
Safety, healthExxonMobil and sustainability
ExxonMobil is committed to producing the energy and 
chemical products that are essential to modern life and 
economic development, in a way that helps protect people, 
the environment and the communities where we operate. 
This includes mitigating the risks of climate change. 
Meeting this dual challenge will be even more important 
in the coming decades as growing populations and global 
economic expansion are expected to drive energy demand 
higher . This report provides a summary of the key dimensions 
of sustainability: our environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) performance.5 | Sustainability Report Highlights4.0MPRODUCTION
Natural Gas
Natural
Gas Liquids
OilUPSTREAM: We are one of the largest producers of oil and 
natural gas, and have an active presence in 45 countries where 
we explore, develop, produce and/or market hydrocarbons.
5.5MREFINING + SUPPLY
Asphalt
Chemical Feedstocks
Diesel 
Fuel Oil
Gasoline
Jet Fuel
LubricantsDOWNSTREAM: We are one of the largest integrated 
refiners and manufacturers of fuels and lubricants, as well as 
a leading marketer of petroleum products and finished 
lubricants. We have refining and lubricant blending facilities 
in 22 countries.
26.5MCHEMICAL
Adhesives & sealants
Agriculture
Automotive
Building & construction
Compounding
Consumer products
Healthcare & medical
Hygiene & personal care
Industrial applications
Lubricants
Oil & gas
PackagingCHEMICAL : ExxonMobil is one of the largest chemical 
companies. We have manufacturing operations in 12 countries 
and a unique portfolio of high-performance products.
CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS
FEEDSTOCKS
oil-equivalent barrels of net oil 
and gas production per day†barrels of petroleum product 
sales per day‡tonnes of chemical prime 
product sales‡ExxonMobil maintains a diverse portfolio of resources, projects and assets across our businesses. 2019 global operations6 | Sustainability Report HighlightsCommunities
Customers
Employees
Governments
Nongovernmental 
organizations
Shareholders 
SuppliersStakeholder groups Common areas of interestExxonMobil works to foster mutual understanding, trust and cooperation with stakeholder groups on sustainability topics. We interact with a variety of stakeholders via 
community meetings, digital and social media, and one-on-one discussions. Maintaining an open dialogue provides opportunities to listen to concerns, discuss approaches 
and share plans. Across stakeholder groups, from communities and nongovernmental organizations to employees and shareholders, we continue to see broad interest in 
our environmental, social and governance performance. The table below highlights our key stakeholder groups, their typical areas of interest and our engagement approach.Stakeholder engagement
Communicate with local residents in areas where we operate through direct correspondence and group meetings 
Dedicate personnel responsible for community engagement, as well as receiving, tracking, analyzing and responding to  
    potential community concerns 
Establish channels for communities to provide input or seek information
Use social media platforms to share project updates
Contributed $253 million to communities around the world in 2019Air emissions
Community investments
Economic development
Education
Employment opportunitiesEnvironmental performance
Grievance management
Human rights
Operational impacts
Collaborate with our customers to identify potential solutions to sustainability issues 
Cultivate an open dialogue with our customers and educate them about the market-based approach to sustainable solutions
Provide customer service contact numbers and support marketing teams in responding to customer questionsDeveloping innovative  
products and technology
SafetySupply chain management
Sustainability and  
environmental performance
Support the professional development of our employees globally 
Invest in worker health by providing voluntary health programs
Share feedback and raise topics of interest through managers, internal surveys, company forums and a confidential hotline 
Support employee-led resource groups that foster a culture of diversity and inclusion
Use social media platforms to share informationBenefits
Diversity and inclusion
Health and wellnessProfessional development 
Safety
Workplace security
Engage host governments to maintain the safety and security of operations while respecting human rights
Monitor and participate in transparency initiatives in countries where we operate
Meet with representatives and leaders to provide information and insights on policies that may affect our business
Work to support responsible economic, energy and environmental policies and help identify solutions Energy supply and security
Environmental performance
Climate change
Employment opportunities
Ethics and integrity 
Impact assessments
Local supplier developmentSafety 
Taxes and other revenue sources
Human rights
Health and wellness
Diversity and inclusion 
Education
Collaborate on technical projects of mutual interest
Conduct one-on-one meetings 
Engage in corporate and foundation philanthropic activities with nongovernmental organizations
Participate in conference events to exchange views, information and expertise
Participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives to enable progress on key policy issues
Partner with grantees to improve health, education and job opportunities in local communities Climate change
Environmental performance
Human rights
Social issuesTransparency
Economic development
Health
Education
Engage directly with shareholders to understand input and feedback, including shareholder proposals
Disseminate information to our shareholders through SEC filings, investor days, investor presentations and other publications
Enable engagement between non-employee directors and shareholders, and facilitate communication from any interested  
    party to non-employee directors via our corporate governance page
Host annual shareholder meetings to share information on company highlights and answer questions from shareholdersBoard composition
Business performance
Climate change
Environmental performanceGovernance practices
Policy engagement
Risk management
Hold sessions with suppliers to provide information on our safety, environmental and human rights practices 
Participate in organizations dedicated to building local supplier capabilities
Share our supplier , vendor and contractor expectations
Conduct regular supplier audits and anti-corruption due diligence in relevant countries 
Support U.S. businesses owned by traditionally underrepresented groups through our U.S. supplier diversity database  
    and supplier forumsLocal business opportunities 
Local supplier development
Operational integrity
Safety
Environmental performanceExpectations for suppliers
Diversity and inclusion
Supplier training 
Human rightsEngagement approach7 | Sustainability Report Highlights 
 
 
ExxonMobil’s diverse 
portfolio of projects requires 
us to work in remote and 
sensitive environments, 
including deepwater and 
areas of high biodiversity.
Our environmental management approach is guided by an 
understanding of the potential environmental and socioeconomic 
impacts of our operations and a commitment to develop, maintain 
and operate projects sustainably, using appropriate standards that 
enable us to ‘Protect Tomorrow. Today.’ENVIRONMENT
A Steller’s sea eagle flies near our Orlan platform, part of the Sakhalin-1 
operation in far Eastern Russia. 8 | Sustainability Report HighlightsENVIRONMENT EXCERPT: EXXONMOBIL 2021 ENERGY & CARBON SUMMARY
About the Energy & Carbon Summary
The Energy & Carbon Summary outlines ExxonMobil’s approach to managing climate risks, 
including Board of Directors oversight, technology investments and actions to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions. It highlights the Company’s commitment to advancing sustainable, effective 
solutions that address the world’s growing demand for energy and the risks of climate change. 
Positioning for a lower-carbon energy future 
Under most third-party scenarios that meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement, oil and natural 
gas continue to play a significant role for decades in meeting increasing energy demand of a 
growing and more prosperous global population. ExxonMobil will play an important role in meeting 
society’s need for energy and at the same time is committed to supporting efforts to mitigate the 
risk of climate change, as reflected in the four pillars of the Company’s climate strategy:
• Mitigating emissions in Company operations.
• Providing products to help customers reduce their emissions.
• Developing and deploying scalable technology solutions.
• Proactively engaging on climate-related policy.• ExxonMobil’s greenhouse gas emissions have declined approximately 5 percent 
from 2010 to 2019 due to energy efficiency improvements, and reductions in 
flaring, venting and fugitive emissions. 
• At year-end 2020, the Company expected to achieve the emission reduction goals 
outlined in 2018. These included: 
 – 15 percent reduction in methane emissions versus 2016 levels, and
 – 25 percent reduction in flaring versus 2016 levels.
• The Company aims for industry-leading greenhouse gas performance across its 
businesses by 2030, and recently announced new emission reduction plans for 
2025, which are projected to be consistent with the goals of the Paris Agreement.
• The 2025 plans include a 15 to 20 percent reduction in greenhouse gas intensity of 
upstream operations compared to 2016 levels. This will be supported by a:
 – 40 to 50 percent reduction in methane intensity, and
 – 35 to 45 percent reduction in flaring intensity.
• The Company’s upstream operations also plan to align with the World Bank’s 
initiative to eliminate routine flaring by 2030.
• The 2025 emission reduction plans are expected to reduce absolute greenhouse 
gas emissions by an estimated 30 percent for the Company’s upstream business. 
Similarly, absolute flaring and methane emissions are expected to decrease by  
40 to 50 percent. The emission reduction plans cover Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions from assets operated by the Company.ExxonMobil has a long history of responsibly meeting 
society‘s evolving need for energy in a reliable and sustainable 
manner . With a longstanding commitment to investments 
in technology and the ingenuity of its people, the Company 
is well positioned to continue to provide the energy that is 
essential to improving lives around the world, while managing 
the risks of climate change.  Mitigating emissions in Company operationsEXXONMOBIL’S CLIMATE STRATEGY9 | Sustainability Report Highlights
For more information, visit exxonmobil.com/energycarbonsummary .ENVIRONMENT EXCERPT: EXXONMOBIL 2021 ENERGY & CARBON SUMMARY10 | Sustainability Report Highlights
For more information, visit exxonmobil.com/energycarbonsummary .• The Company continues to engage in efforts to encourage sound and constructive policy 
solutions that reduce climate-related risks across the economy at the lowest cost to 
society, such as supporting the regulation of methane from new and existing sources. • ExxonMobil is responding to product demand growth by delivering solutions that 
enable customers to meet product performance requirements while reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions. These products and solutions include: natural gas, 
lightweight materials and packaging, and advanced fuels and lubricants.
• Recognizing climate change is a global issue that requires collaboration among 
governments, private companies, consumers and other stakeholders to create 
meaningful solutions, ExxonMobil has participated in the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change (IPCC) since its inception in 1988, is a founding member of the 
Climate Leadership Council, and is part of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative.• Commercially viable technology advances are required to achieve the Paris 
Agreement objectives. ExxonMobil’s sustained investment in research and 
development is focused on society’s highest-emitting sectors of industrial, power 
generation and commercial transportation, which together account for 80 percent 
of global CO2 emissions, and for which the current solution set is insufficient. 
• ExxonMobil is working to develop breakthrough solutions in areas such as carbon 
capture, biofuels, hydrogen and energy-efficient process technology.
• Over the past two decades, ExxonMobil has invested more than $10 billion to 
research, develop and deploy lower-emission energy solutions, resulting in highly 
efficient operations that have eliminated or avoided approximately 480 million 
tonnes of CO2 emissions – the equivalent of taking 100 million passenger vehicles 
off the road for a year .Providing products to help customers reduce their emissions
Proactively engaging on climate-related policyDeveloping and deploying scalable technology solutionsEXXONMOBIL’S CLIMATE STRATEGY, continued
Governance and oversight
Strong governance is essential to the long-term viability of ExxonMobil’s business. Within the 
Company’s robust governance framework, a rigorous risk-management approach is applied to 
identify and address risks associated with the business. Importantly, the Board of Directors and 
its various committees are highly engaged and have oversight of risk management, including as 
it applies to climate. The Board regularly receives updates from internal and third-party experts 
on climate science and policy, evaluates climate risk in the context of overall enterprise risk, 
including other operational, strategic and financial risks, and considers the interactions among 
these factors, which includes in-depth analyses by Board committees.
Conclusion
The 2021 Energy & Carbon Summary contains additional detail on all of the areas described 
above. It updates and enhances last year’s report, and includes a Frequently Asked Questions 
section as well as metrics, annual Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission data, and a new provision of 
Scope 3 emissions.
ExxonMobil supports the aims of the 2015 Paris Agreement and efforts to achieve net-zero 
emissions. The pillars of ExxonMobil’s climate strategy, the investments the Company is making 
in lower-emission technologies, and the actions taken to reduce emissions across its operations 
are consistent with these global efforts.
ExxonMobil strives to deliver superior results while providing products and services that are 
essential to the health and welfare of billions of people around the world. The Company is 
committed to providing reliable and affordable energy to support human progress while 
advancing effective solutions that address the risks of climate change. ExxonMobil is working  
to be part of the solution.11 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Plastics are important to our society and should never end up 
as litter in our environment.Plastic waste management
ExxonMobil shares society’s concern about plastic waste in the environment. Plastics 
provide significant sustainability benefits versus alternative materials and will continue 
to play an important role in helping society mitigate greenhouse gas emissions (see 
sidebar , page 13). They should not end up as litter , either in our oceans or anywhere 
else in the environment. Industry, governments, nongovernmental organizations and 
consumers must work collaboratively to encourage appropriate recycling, reuse and 
recovery of plastic waste.
Demand for plastics is increasing around the world at rates greater than GDP , due to the rapid growth in the 
global middle class and the many benefits that plastics bring to society. For example, plastics help provide 
for the safe production, distribution and preservation of food and water . They help reduce the weight of 
automobiles to improve fuel efficiency, which enables consumers to reduce their environmental footprint. 
And they are critical components to many life-saving products in the medical industry, including facemasks, 
shields and gowns for medical professionals treating patients with COVID-19 and other medical conditions 
(see case study, page 34).
Plastic waste in the environment is part of a larger issue related to global waste management infrastructure. 
At least 3 billion people worldwide lack access to formal waste disposal facilities. As a result, a significant 
amount of solid waste makes its way into the environment. According to a 2018 estimate from the World 
Bank, about 12 percent of the global municipal solid waste stream is plastic.
ExxonMobil is taking action to help address plastic waste in the environment by increasing plastic recyclability 
and supporting improvements in plastic waste recovery, for example, through our founding membership 
in the Alliance to End Plastic Waste.  We are also working on advanced recycling solutions that create and 
capture value from plastic waste with opportunities for lower overall greenhouse gas emissions over the full 
life cycle of the plastic. In addition, minimizing pellet loss from our operations is integral to our commitment 
to responsible operations.ENVIRONMENT12 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Increasing plastic recyclability
ExxonMobil is creating innovative products that help society reduce plastic waste by meeting consumers’ 
performance needs with less material, developing new materials for packaging that is more easily 
recycled, and enabling customers to increase their recycled content. For example, our VistamaxxTM 
performance polymers increase our customers’ ability to use recycled materials, while also improving 
toughness and tear resistance. Our products can be used to make full polyethylene laminated pouches 
that are more easily recyclable and can replace difficult-to-recycle conventional multilayer packaging in 
non-food applications such as detergents and dishwasher pods, while retaining packaging performance 
benefits. And our performance polyethylene resins enable our customers to meet their performance 
needs with thinner , lighter-weight products, which require less resource.  
Assessing advanced recycling technology
Plastics have value throughout their life cycle, including at the end of their life. Both traditional and 
advanced recycling processes are needed to help society maximize the value captured from plastic waste, 
but there are some limitations with traditional recycling as currently configured.
Traditional mechanical recycling – grinding discarded plastic and melting it together with new plastic – is 
an efficient approach where waste is well sorted and for waste products that are made predominantly 
from one type of plastic. However , each time plastic is recycled via traditional processes, it loses some 
of its performance benefits. In addition, it is difficult to remove contaminants from traditional recycling 
processes, an important consideration for food and health care applications.
Our employees monitor the production, loading and storage of plastic 
pellets at all our resin-handling facilities to minimize plastic pellet loss.13 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Lorem ipsum dolar sit etium apparatus dolar sit
etium montrimonii, catherdas sinosous.Advanced recycling involves breaking down plastic waste into its molecular building blocks. This approach 
effectively transforms plastic waste into the raw materials that are used in the process of making  
virgin-quality plastic and other valuable products. ExxonMobil believes advanced recycling is a necessary 
complement to traditional recycling for several reasons:
• Advanced recycling enables society to capture more value from a broader range of products and 
provides more flexibility in sorting and separation processes. 
• There are no evident technical limitations regarding how many times a plastic product can be put 
through these processes.
• Advanced recycling helps remove contaminants from used plastic. 
• Advanced recycling provides opportunities for lower overall greenhouse gas emissions over the  
full life cycle of the plastic.
ExxonMobil is working on technology to help enable and accelerate large-scale advanced recycling 
solutions that could address certain limitations of traditional recycling and do so in an economically 
feasible way. Leveraging our expertise in research and development and molecule management, we 
are developing options for integrating advanced recycling solutions at our petrochemical facilities. We 
expect this will lead to more mixed and soiled plastic waste being recovered and used to make high-
value raw materials safely, reliably and economically, at scale. We are doing this without diminishing our 
commitment to developing products that are easier to recycle via traditional recycling methods.  
Supporting improvements in plastic waste recovery
As economies grow, society’s commitment to waste management systems must expand to enable 
the appropriate collection, sorting and processing of waste to minimize environmental impact. These 
infrastructure enhancements are needed for all types of municipal solid waste, not just plastic. However , 
increasing plastic recycling rates and converting plastic waste into a broad range of valuable products 
could unlock value and help offset some of the costs of improvements to waste collection and  
sorting infrastructure.Environmental benefits of plastics relative to alternative materials
While ExxonMobil agrees there is no place for plastic waste in the environment, 
the environmental benefits of plastic are clear . Calls to replace plastic packaging 
with alternative materials can often have unintended negative environmental 
impacts. For example:
According to a 2011 U.K. Environment Agency study, a cotton tote bag  
would need to be used 131 times to have a lower full life cycle emissions  
impact than using a typical plastic grocery bag once.  
A 2016 TruCost study found that substituting plastic in consumer products 
packaging with alternatives that perform the same function would have nearly 
four times the negative impact on the environment on a full life cycle basis.  
A 2018 study by the Denmark Ministry of Environment and Food concluded a 
paper bag would need to be reused 43 times to have a lower impact on ozone 
depletion and air and water pollution than the average plastic bag.  
A 2018 Franklin Associates study in the United States found the 
manufacturing process for plastics packaging used almost 50 percent less 
energy and 80 percent less water compared to the manufacturing process  
for alternate materials.
14 | Sustainability Report Highlights
ExxonMobil was the first energy company to join The Recycling 
Partnership , a nonprofit organization dedicated to increasing 
recycling in the United States. We have committed $1.5 million 
to this organization to help develop sustainable solutions and 
support activities such as curbside recycling programs. The 
partnership has supported more than 1,000 communities, 
including 50 million homes, and has diverted 233 million pounds 
of recyclable waste from landfills to recycling centers. 
In 2019, ExxonMobil helped launch the Alliance to End Plastic 
Waste as a founding member . We worked with companies from 
multiple sectors to form the world’s most significant organization 
of business and nonprofit partners to help address plastic waste. 
The membership has since grown to nearly 50 organizations that 
have collectively committed more than $1 billion to develop safe, 
scalable and economically viable solutions. The Alliance aims to 
accelerate additional investment by proving the effectiveness of 
these solutions, particularly in countries with the highest levels 
of plastic waste in the environment. For more information about 
the Alliance’s projects, please visit endplasticwaste.org . 
Minimizing plastic pellet loss from our operations
In both 2018 and 2019, ExxonMobil had no reportable plastic 
pellet losses. Although laws and regulations related to the 
reporting of plastic pellet loss to the environment vary by 
jurisdiction, we put in place a global standard across all of our 
resin-handling facilities. ExxonMobil’s objective is to have zero 
pellet loss to the environment.2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Alliance to End   
Plastic Waste  
Founding member
ExxonMobil is a founding member of the 
Alliance to End Plastic Waste, an organization 
committed to advancing potential scalable 
solutions to reduce plastic waste in  
the environment.
No reportable plastic  
pellet losses to the  
environment
Although laws and regulations related to 
the reporting of plastic pellet loss to the 
environment vary by jurisdiction, we put in  
place a global standard across all of our  
resin-handling facilities.Pellets are typically loaded into a bag, truck or railcar via a 
mechanical process. Plant personnel monitor our facilities via 
routine daily rounds, and if a loss of containment is discovered, 
loose pellets are promptly recovered. Pellet recovery 
equipment, such as skimmers and sieves, is also in place to 
recover pellets captured in our water drainage systems. 
ExxonMobil actively participates in industry initiatives related to 
pellet loss. Since 2008, we have been a member of Operation 
Clean Sweep, a voluntary international industry program for 
plastic manufacturing facilities that encourages the use of best 
practices for pellet management and containment to reduce 
pellet loss. We have incorporated Operation Clean Sweep 
principles into our global Operations Integrity Management 
System, which is applied at our plastics production and 
handling facilities around the world and requires a regular 
assessment of our procedures to ensure they are effective, 
and improvement measures are implemented if needed. We 
have also incorporated Operation Clean Sweep principles 
into our Supplier Relationship Management process to inform 
third-party logistics suppliers about our commitment, and we 
encourage participation in similar programs or activities to 
prevent pellet loss.
In 2019, we joined Operation Clean Sweep-Blue, which 
is a voluntary extension of Operation Clean Sweep in the 
United States that includes enhanced commitments for the 
awareness, prevention, management and reporting of plastic 
pellet releases to help further reduce plastic pellet loss at 
industry facilities. 
 
 
Around the world,  
ExxonMobil aims to be  
a preferred business  
partner, neighbor,  
employer and supplier.
We maintain a corporate-wide commitment to safeguarding the 
health and security of our employees and the public, responsibly 
managing our social impacts, and upholding respect for human  
rights in our operations.SOCIAL
ExxonMobil employees worked with strategic partners and contractors from around the world to build the  
Floating Production Storage and Offloading platform (FPSO) Liza Destiny in Singapore and deliver it offshore Guyana.15 | Sustainability Report HighlightsExxonMobil remains focused on achieving a work environment where  
Nobody Gets Hurt.
Safety is a core value at ExxonMobil. We operate in a manner that helps protect our employees, contractors, 
customers and the communities where we operate. Our approach to safety includes identifying possible risks, 
implementing measures to prevent potential incidents, and educating employees and contractors about unsafe 
behaviors. For 27 years, our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) has established a set of worldwide 
expectations for addressing risks inherent to our business, including safety risks. Our work procedures embed 
OIMS into our everyday work processes at all levels of the organization.
Personnel safety
From a Lost-Time Incident Rate (LTIR) perspective, our workforce remains significantly safer than the industry  
as a whole. XTO Energy, our unconventional exploration and production unit, continued its year-on-year 
improvement trend and achieved its best-ever LTIR results in 2019. Our Fuels & Lubricants and Chemical 
businesses continue to outperform their respective industry benchmarks.
In 2019, we enhanced our focus on defining consistent Life Saving Actions, or safeguards, for higher-consequence 
work associated with lifting and rigging, and with work around mobile equipment. These actions are applicable  
to day-to-day activities where ExxonMobil and industry experience has shown tragic personnel safety outcomes 
still occur .SOCIAL16 | Sustainability Report Highlights
We continually monitor operations to help keep our employees safe and secure. SafetyExxonMobil employees regularly attend specialized trainings, often 
with local firefighters and other first responders, to help ensure 
preparedness in case of an emergency.We work with our employees and contractors to understand Life Saving Actions for these  
higher-consequence activities and how to verify critical, effective safeguards are in place before  
the work begins and during execution. With our focus on eliminating the most serious incidents, we 
extended a steady multiyear improvement trend in 2019, while also achieving a historically low rate of  
high-consequence injuries.  
Process safety
ExxonMobil has an unwavering commitment to helping protect our people, the community and the 
environment by seeking to manage the risks inherent to our operations. Our Operations Integrity 
Management System (OIMS) serves as the foundation for managing process safety risks and establishes 
clear process safety expectations, which are distributed throughout our management systems. The 
safeguards needed to protect against process safety risks are built into OIMS and integral to the way our 
facilities are designed, operated and maintained. We verify and rigorously maintain these safeguards to 
prevent or mitigate the consequences of a process safety event.
We collaborate with our peers and industry associations to share lessons learned. For example, we are 
actively engaged in the Advancing Process Safety initiative, a collaborative effort between the American 
Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers and the American Petroleum Institute. The initiative aims to improve 
process safety performance across industry by sharing experiences and knowledge about process safety 
events, hazard identification metrics and industry-proven practices.17 | Sustainability Report Highlights2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
~80% improvement in 
lost-time incident rate 
since 2000
Since 2000, we have achieved a nearly  
80 percent improvement in our workforce 
lost-time incident rate.27 years of OIMS
For 27 years, our Operations Integrity 
Management System has established 
a set of worldwide expectations 
for addressing risks inherent to our 
business, including safety risks.Lost-time incident rate*Lost-time incident rate*
Incidents per 200,000 work hours
0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
02010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 2015 2017 2018 2019ExxonMobil workforce
*Incidents include injuries and illnesses. We base our safety data on information available 
at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors. Depending on 
the reporting year , around 2 to 12 percent of the lost-time incidents are illness-related.ExxonMobil’s 2019 total workforce (employees and contractors) lost-time incident rate 
per 200,000 work hours was 0.033, similar to our performance in 2018. In 2019, our 
employee total lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.031 and our 
contractor lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.034. When compared 
with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, 
ExxonMobil continues to be among the industry leaders in safety performance.American Petroleum
Institute U.S. petroleum 
industry workforce 
benchmark
Year ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. 
  petroleum industry workforce benchmark
"2010" 0.038 0.128
"2011" 0.077 0.121
"2012" 0.046 0.108
"2013" 0.044 0.118
"2014” 0.031 0.107
"2015" 0.035 0.089
"2016" 0.029 0.084
"2017" 0.029 0.029
"2018" 0.033 0.033
"2019" 0.033 0.033DATA AS OF 6/01/2020Lost-time incident rate*
Incidents per 200,000 work hours
0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
02010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 2015 2017 2018 2019ExxonMobil workforce
*Incidents include injuries and illnesses. We base our safety data on information available 
at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors. Depending on 
the reporting year , around 2 to 12 percent of the lost-time incidents are illness-related.ExxonMobil’s 2019 total workforce (employees and contractors) lost-time incident rate 
per 200,000 work hours was 0.033, similar to our performance in 2018. In 2019, our 
employee total lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.031 and our 
contractor lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.034. When compared 
with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, 
ExxonMobil continues to be among the industry leaders in safety performance.American Petroleum
Institute U.S. petroleum 
industry workforce 
benchmark
Year ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. 
  petroleum industry workforce benchmark
"2010" 0.038 0.128
"2011" 0.077 0.121
"2012" 0.046 0.108
"2013" 0.044 0.118
"2014” 0.031 0.107
"2015" 0.035 0.089
"2016" 0.029 0.084
"2017" 0.029 0.029
"2018" 0.033 0.033
"2019" 0.033 0.033DATA AS OF 6/01/2020Emergency preparedness
ExxonMobil is prepared to respond to a wide array of emergency events, including natural disasters, 
pandemics and operational incidents. Regardless of the size, severity or cause of an event, each 
ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to trained responders and resources. Cross-functional 
teams develop and practice emergency response tactics through incident management teams and 
emergency support groups around the world.
This preparation enables ExxonMobil’s global operations to provide a robust response in emergency 
situations to help protect the safety of people and the environment. 
In 2019, we carried out a Regional Response Team exercise in Egypt to demonstrate the readiness to plan 
and execute real-time field deployments effectively, based on the response actions included in the Egyptian 
National Oil Spill Contingency Plan. With more than 150 participants representing 27 countries, the five-
day exercise strengthened alignment on response objectives between key stakeholders and the Regional 
Response Team.18 | Sustainability Report HighlightsHealthy and engaged workforce 
Worksite health and wellness 
The success of ExxonMobil’s operations depends on a healthy and competent workforce. Our health policy 
communicates corporate expectations for identifying and managing health risks related to our operations. In 
each country, we develop workplace health programs that consider local health care systems and health needs. 
Improvements in worker health can increase quality of life and employee productivity. ExxonMobil supports 
voluntary health programs that promote employee well-being while reducing health-plan costs. Through our 
Culture of Health program, we provide employees with health education, disease management assistance, 
resilience training and fitness programs. We have implemented the Culture of Health program in 30 countries, 
and we continue to look for new opportunities to expand the program’s reach. We have recently added 
programs in Canada, Chad, Colombia, Equatorial Guinea, France, Germany, Guam and New Caledonia. 
When the COVID-19 pandemic emerged in early 2020, our emergency preparedness and response 
procedures were triggered at the country, regional and facility levels, building on lessons learned from SARS, 
Pandemic Flu, MERS and Ebola. Our preventive and mitigation safeguards, combined with coordinated 
internal communications, helped protect the health and safety of our workers and their dependents. Where 
appropriate, we implemented remote-work policies while our facilities were deep cleaned and reconfigured 
to enable proper social distancing. Our measures were continually refined as more information about the virus 
was identified, in consultation with internal and external health experts.SOCIAL19 | Sustainability Report Highlights
In collaboration with the Alberta Health Services, we conducted on-site COVID-19 
testing at our Kearl operations in Canada.20 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Diversity and inclusion 
Diversity of thought, ideas, perspectives, skill, knowledge and  
culture makes ExxonMobil more innovative, resilient and better  
able to navigate the complex and changing global energy  
business. Creating an inclusive workplace enables our global 
employees to bring their unique perspectives to help achieve our 
business objectives.
Our global workforce reflects the local communities and cultures 
where we operate. Our objectives are to seek and hire talented, 
dedicated employees and give them opportunities to learn, grow 
and succeed. The result is a diverse and multifaceted employee 
base representing different perspectives and ideas.
We consider and monitor diversity through all stages of 
employment, including recruitment, training and development  
of our employees. For example, in 2019, 36 percent of our campus 
engineering hires in the United States were women, and 40 
percent were minorities. Both rates are higher than the average 
annual percentage of female engineering graduates and minority 
engineering graduates, respectively. 
Over the past decade, 39 percent of our global management, 
professional and technical hires were female, and 31 percent of our 
U.S. management, professional and technical hires were minorities. 
In 2019, 22 percent of ExxonMobil’s global executive employee 
population were women, and 18 percent of our U.S. executives 
were minorities.Culture of Health program 
in 30 countries
We have implemented the Culture of Health program 
in 30 countries, and we continue to look for new 
opportunities to expand the program’s reach.
Representation of women 
executives increased 69%  
since 2009
In 2019, 22 percent of ExxonMobil’s executives 
were women vs. 13 percent in 2009.Representation of minority 
executives in the U.S. 
increased 80% since 2009
In 2019, 18 percent of ExxonMobil’s U.S. executives 
were minorities vs. 10 percent in 2009.
More than 30  
years of service
Career employees at ExxonMobil average  
more than 30 years of service.2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
ExxonMobil actively fosters a productive work environment where individual and cultural differences are 
respected and valued, and where all employees are encouraged to contribute fully to achieving business results.21 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Our Global Diversity Framework and Standards of Business Conduct govern ExxonMobil employment 
practices, including policies for recruitment, hiring, promotions and salary administration. The standards support 
our commitment to provide equal employment opportunities, prohibit discrimination in the workplace and align 
with applicable laws in the countries where we operate. We use a series of training programs and tools to help 
our employees understand cultural sensitivities across a diverse workforce. We do not tolerate harassment in 
any form, and violators of this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.  
Employee recruitment and retention 
ExxonMobil prioritizes the development of employees. We begin with recruiting exceptional talent and continue 
with individually planned assignments and experiences that lead to broad skill development and a deep 
understanding of our businesses. This career-oriented, tailored approach results in an average length of service 
of more than 30 years for career employees. It also facilitates development of the next generation of leaders 
from within the company.
ExxonMobil invests in people for a long-term career . Through a combination of work assignments, on-the-job 
experiences, and focused training and education, employees acquire the necessary skills and competencies to 
take on increasing levels of responsibility and job complexity. We have invested an average of $93 million per 
year on training since 2015. In 2019, more than 60,000 personnel completed voluntary training courses.
We recruit exceptional people and give them personalized career plans and 
unique experiences, which leads to an average length of service of more than 
30 years for career employees.Our business presence should have a positive influence on the people in the communities 
where we operate. Through our livelihood support programs, we are helping to build the 
capacity of communities and enhance the livelihoods of Papua New Guineans in our  
project areas.SOCIAL
22 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Human rights  
ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights as a fundamental principle  
in our operations, reinforced through training and integrated into our policies and 
practices. Our business presence should have a positive influence on the people in  
the communities where we operate. Our practices reflect the spirit and intent of the  
United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and are guided by elements of the 
United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
ExxonMobil conducts human rights training to help build an understanding of human rights and an awareness 
of potential human rights risks. More than 1,800 employees in applicable positions and locations across  
49 countries have completed the training since 2015. We use a risk screening tool to assess potential human 
rights impacts associated with our activities, and we integrate it with our Environmental, Socioeconomic and 
Health Impact Assessment and Management process so risks are appropriately assessed, mitigated and tracked. 
Our processes for stakeholder engagement and grievance management support our integrated approach to
human rights due diligence. Through our grievance management process, for example, we help provide 
effective, accessible and culturally appropriate channels for individuals or communities to raise concerns, 
whether through community engagements, electronic or in-person submission, or third parties such as civil 
society organizations or nongovernmental organizations. We then work to manage, respond to and, ideally, 
resolve issues in a timely manner , as appropriate.
Our efforts to manage human rights issues reflect evolving international initiatives. We are actively involved with 
IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for advancing environmental and social issues, to monitor 
business and human rights trends. Our engagement also includes developing and sharing practices on human 
rights due diligence and human rights supply chain management from the oil and natural gas industry and other 
extractive industries.
In 2019, ExxonMobil contributed to the new edition of the Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and 
Gas Industry , jointly developed by IPIECA, the American Petroleum Institute, and the International Association 
of Oil and Gas Producers. We were actively engaged in the development of the expanded social performance 
section, which embeds human rights considerations throughout the sustainability reporting guidance.Security and human rights
ExxonMobil’s Statement of Principles on Security and Human Rights establishes the expectation that all 
business units provide security for personnel, facilities and operations in a manner that respects human rights. 
The framework guides our majority-owned operating affiliates on how to manage interactions with both 
host government-assigned security and private security providers. It also provides guidance for documenting 
allegations of human rights abuse by public or private security personnel and any incidents of inappropriate 
physical force used by security providers in the protection of company assets. Depending on the nature of an 
incident, our procedures include reporting to host governments.
Where appropriate, our standard security services contracts include provisions requiring that personnel receive 
training to understand the expectations and their responsibilities with respect to the following: 
• ExxonMobil’s Statement of Principles on Security and Human Rights 
• Local laws and regulations
• Provisions of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights
• International Labour Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 
• U.N. Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials
• U.N. Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials
These standard security services contract provisions require contractors to monitor , report and investigate 
allegations of credible human rights abuse. Contractors are required to immediately remove any of their 
personnel credibly alleged to have committed a human rights abuse.
Since 2016, we have helped train nearly 29,000 security providers on the Voluntary Principles on Security 
and Human Rights, a multi-stakeholder initiative that focuses on ways to maintain the safety and security 
of operations while respecting human rights. Using the Voluntary Principles to train on-the-ground security 
personnel can help reduce human rights risks. 23 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Since 2016, we have helped train nearly 29,000 security providers  
on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Human rights training in  
49 countries since 2015
Since 2015, more than 1,800 employees in applicable positions 
and locations across 49 countries have completed our human 
rights training module.
Utilized a risk screening tool
We use a risk screening tool prior to conducting broader 
Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessments 
to assess potential human rights impacts.~29K trained on Voluntary
Principles on Security and  
Human Rights since 2016
We have helped train nearly 29,000 security providers on the 
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights to reduce  
human rights risks associated with security activities in communities.24 | Sustainability Report Highlights 24 | Sustainability Report Highlights
In some instances, host governments require ExxonMobil to engage their security forces. In these cases, we 
have signed agreements with governments that include expectations for respecting human rights consistent 
with the Voluntary Principles, as well as compliance with relevant local, U.N. and other security-related 
frameworks. We have agreements in place in Chad, Colombia, Indonesia, Mozambique and Papua New Guinea.
We developed targeted training modules in 2019 for ExxonMobil personnel in global affiliates where host 
government security forces are engaged. The training focuses on our expectations for host government security 
deployment, including identifying the risks of security-related human rights impacts in communities.  
Human rights in the supply chain
ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights, and we expect the same of our suppliers. Our  
Supplier Expectations include our expectations of suppliers, vendors and contractors with regards to human 
rights. These expectations include references to key international human rights frameworks, such as the  
United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s 
1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We reiterate our expectations on human 
rights to our suppliers through an annual letter to suppliers.
We also comply with all relevant laws and regulations regarding human rights. For example, in compliance with 
the U.K. Modern Slavery Act 2015, we prepare an annual slavery and human trafficking statement . Also, our 
annual conflict minerals filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission provides disclosures regarding 
supply sources of gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum.
Additionally, since 2016, more than 300 procurement employees have received human rights awareness 
training, tailored to procurement professionals, to help improve their understanding of human rights in the 
supply chain.
For information on supply chain management, including supplier diversity, please visit our website.Community investments
ExxonMobil works closely with the communities where we operate to identify and 
invest in initiatives that help support their needs. We collaborate with governments 
and local stakeholders to invest in programs that promote local economic growth 
and help improve social conditions.
Local economic growth and development 
ExxonMobil adds economic value to countries where we operate by employing and training local personnel 
and supporting local suppliers. We also build capacity of local suppliers to increase their capabilities 
and work to create a competitive local industrial base. We develop a local content plan specific to each 
country or area to establish long-term economic benefits. When we hire local employees, they may 
receive additional training to develop technical and leadership skills, improving their overall employability. 
Our development program includes training on relevant technical and vocational skills, health and safety, 
environmental protection, management skills and business conduct.
For example, providing opportunities for local hiring and development is a vital part of our commitment 
to enhancing the economic and social benefits associated with our activities in Guyana. We apply 
proven training curriculums, industry best practices and leading technology to support local workforce 
development. In 2019, our affiliate’s activities in Guyana increased the total workforce to more than 
3,400 employees and contractors, of which nearly 1,900 are Guyanese. Our goal is to provide Guyanese 
personnel with technical and professional skills needed for existing and future operations. ExxonMobil and 
our contractors provided more than 250,000 hours of training to individuals working on our projects in 
Guyana in 2019.25 | Sustainability Report Highlights
EQUATORIAL GUINEAANGOLA
INDONESIAGUYANA
MALAYSIA
NIGERIA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA Employees locally hired in 
supervisory or managerial positionsEmployees locally hired
CHAD
48%83%
91%03%
87%
88%
18%87%
82%93%
97%58%
97%
94%
69%94%2019 workforce composition
SOCIAL
In December 2019, ExxonMobil announced oil production had started from the Liza field offshore 
Guyana, a first for the country of 750,000 people. At year-end 2019, more than 50 percent of 
ExxonMobil’s employees in Guyana were Guyanese.We temporarily reconfigured manufacturing operations at our facilities in Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana, to give us the ability to produce, blend, package and distribute hand sanitizer .Social investments
Our social investments address key needs, such as access to 
health care, disaster relief, education and economic development. 
In 2019, we contributed $253 million to communities around the 
world, which includes donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, 
our divisions and affiliates, the ExxonMobil Foundation, employee 
and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift and 
volunteer programs, and disaster relief.
For example, in 2019, when Cyclones Idai and Kenneth impacted 
Mozambique, we provided $400,000 in emergency assistance 
to support ongoing relief and recovery efforts, including the 
provision of food and shelter in affected communities.
We are also actively involved in worldwide support of response 
efforts related to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a company with 
operations around the world, our efforts have ranged from 
donating personal protective equipment and supporting local 
food banks, to reconfiguring our own operations to produce hand 
sanitizer . Learn more in our COVID-19 case study on page 34.
Our employees are passionate about engaging in their 
communities, and we encourage them to contribute to the 
communities where they live and work. Through our volunteer 
involvement program in the United States, we provide a  
$500 donation to the employee’s or retiree’s charity of choice 
for every 20 hours a volunteer works, up to four times per 
year . Many of our affiliates have similar volunteer programs. 
More than 17,000 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and their 
families volunteered approximately 443,000 hours at 3,700 
charitable organizations in 28 countries in 2019. More than 4,100 
employees and retirees donated more than $18 million to 825 
U.S. colleges and universities, as well as minority scholarship 
programs. The ExxonMobil Foundation matched that amount 
with more than $33.6 million in 2019. For more information on 
our work with local communities, please visit our website.26 | Sustainability Report Highlights
>$1.3B contributed to  
education since 2000
Since 2000, we have contributed more than  
$1.3 billion to education programs around the  
world, including approximately $59 million in 2019.
>125M people reached  
through malaria programs
Since 2000, more than 125 million people have 
benefited from ExxonMobil-supported programs that 
focus on malaria research, education and treatment.>$120M invested in women’s 
economic opportunities
Since 2005, we have invested more than $120 million 
to support women in more than 90 countries to fulfill 
their economic potential and drive economic change in 
their communities.
160K gallons of hand 
sanitizer 
In 2020, as part of our work to support the response to 
the COVID-19 pandemic, we temporarily reconfigured 
manufacturing operations in Louisiana to enable us to 
produce up to 160,000 gallons of hand sanitizer , which 
was donated to frontline workers and military personnel.2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS$18.3M
Canada$73.7M
Europe
$30.2M
Africa/Middle East
$9.2M
Asia Pacific$117.4M
United States
$3.7M
Central/
South America
*Total contributions do not include environmental 
  capital and operating expenditures. $143M
Civic & community$61M
Higher education$5M 
Public policy 
research
$11M
Pre-college 
education$17M
Health & environment$6M
Workforce development/
other education
$7M 
Arts & culture$3M 
Women’s economic 
opportunity$253M WORLDWIDE TOTAL
Investments by focus area
Investments by geographic regionIn 2019, ExxonMobil contributed $253 million to communities around the world.* Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions 
and affiliates, the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift and volunteer programs.2019 community investments27 | Sustainability Report Highlights
SOCIAL 
 
 
Good corporate governance 
creates a business 
environment conducive  
to long-term growth.
ExxonMobil employs a variety of policies and processes to uphold 
high ethical standards and promote transparency. Our efforts are 
underpinned by a board of directors that provides strategic and 
independent oversight of our corporation’s affairs.GOVERNANCE
Members of the ExxonMobil Board of Directors visited its Rotterdam, Netherlands,
petrochemical complex and learned about the facility from local employees.28 | Sustainability Report Highlights29 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Ethics and integrity
ExxonMobil strives to uphold high ethical standards at all times and in all aspects of our 
business. Our Standards of Business Conduct set the ethical conduct expectations for 
our corporation and majority-owned subsidiaries. Employees must annually confirm 
they have read and comply with the standards to ensure a consistent understanding. 
ExxonMobil requires all employees, officers, directors and those working on our behalf 
to comply with all applicable laws.
ExxonMobil encourages employees and contractors to ask questions, voice concerns and report any alleged 
violations of company policies. In addition to our open-door communication procedures, we have several 
confidential mechanisms for reporting. Employees can submit concerns through a 24-hour phone hotline or a 
mailing address. We respect confidentiality, subject to legal requirements, and strictly prohibit retaliation against 
any employee for submitting concerns. A hotline steering committee reviews reports of suspected violations.
The board audit committee, comprising four independent, non-employee directors, oversees accounting and 
internal control matters for the company, including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The 
board audit committee receives a quarterly report summarizing the steering committee’s findings, including any 
policy violations. Confirmed violations lead to disciplinary actions, up to and including termination. For more 
information on the board audit committee, please see the company’s annual proxy statement . 
ExxonMobil conducts regular internal audits and self-assessments to verify the effectiveness of our control 
systems and adherence to our Standards of Business Conduct. Our team of internal auditors annually reviews 
approximately one-third of the corporation’s activities and processes. Internal auditors have access to all 
operations, records, personnel and properties. We thoroughly investigate any suspected acts of noncompliance 
with the Standards of Business Conduct.
Employees in relevant job functions receive in-person training on antitrust, anti-corruption, anti-boycott, trade 
sanctions and export controls soon after entering their positions, as well as every year thereafter . In 2019, nearly 
24,000 employees and contractors participated in such training.GOVERNANCE29 | Sustainability Report Highlights
ExxonMobil regularly conducts employee training, both in-person and computer-
based, to help maintain adherence to our Standards of Business Conduct.
2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
~24K participated in  
compliance training 
Nearly 24,000 employees and contractors participated  
in compliance training.
~1/3 of activities and  
processes audited
ExxonMobil’s team of internal auditors annually reviews 
approximately one-third of the corporation’s activities  
and processes.Board leadership30 | Sustainability Report Highlights
ExxonMobil’s board of directors provides oversight of the corporation’s affairs. Board 
members select an independent director to serve as the lead director to help ensure a 
level of independence in our board leadership. Board members expect the lead director 
to serve for a minimum of two years.
In March 2020, the board clarified and enhanced the role of the presiding director , and renamed the role as 
lead director . The lead director has broad responsibilities, including:
• Calls, chairs and sets the agenda for executive sessions of the non-employee directors;
• Provides feedback to the chairman;
• Chairs meetings of the board in the absence of the chairman;
• In consultation with the chairman, reviews and approves the schedule and agenda for all board meetings 
and reviews associated materials distributed to the directors;
• Reviews committee meeting schedules; 
• Engages with shareholders, including on ESG-related matters, as appropriate; and
• Leads the annual performance evaluation of the board.
The lead director also chairs the board affairs committee, which has authorities that include establishing the 
criteria for director engagement with shareholders, overseeing independent director succession planning, and 
establishing and maintaining procedures for interested parties to communicate with non-employee directors. 
The lead director works with the compensation committee to oversee the annual evaluation of the CEO, the 
communication of resulting feedback to the CEO and the review of CEO succession plans. The board believes 
shareholder interests are best served through a leadership model combining the roles of chairman of the 
board and chief executive officer .
At year-end 2019, nine of ExxonMobil’s 10 directors were independent as defined by New York Stock 
Exchange guidelines. In 2019, the board of directors met 10 times. ExxonMobil’s directors, on average, 
attended approximately 96 percent of board and committee meetings during 2019.The ExxonMobil board of directors, as of May 1, 2020. From left: Angela Braly, Kenneth Frazier , 
Joseph Hooley (joined January 2020), Ursula Burns, Samuel Palmisano, Darren Woods,  
Douglas Oberhelman, Steven Reinemund (since retired), William Weldon, Susan Avery  
and Steven Kandarian.GOVERNANCE2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
9/10 independent 
directors
On average, ExxonMobil’s directors 
attended approximately 96 percent 
of board and committee meetings.
44% board diversity
At year-end 2019, 44 percent of the 
board’s independent directors were 
female and/or a racial/ethnic minority. At year-end 2019, nine of ExxonMobil’s  
10 directors were independent as defined  
by New York Stock Exchange guidelines.
The board of directors met 10 times.10 board meetings
96% board meeting 
attendanceBoard diversity 
ExxonMobil believes the strength and effectiveness of the board 
reflects the balance, experience and diversity of the individual 
directors; their commitment; and the ability of the directors to 
work effectively as a group in carrying out their responsibilities. 
The board affairs committee recommends board of director 
candidates in accordance with our Guidelines for the Selection 
of Non-Employee Directors.
The board considers director longevity of service and experience 
of great value, but recognizes the importance of director 
refreshment. The average tenure of our non-employee directors 
as of April 2020 was 6.1 years, below the 2019 average of S&P 
500 companies of eight years. The board affairs committee 
looks for highly qualified, non-employee candidates with 
demonstrated leadership, competency and a commitment to 
represent the interests of our shareholders. An independent 
executive search firm helps identify external candidates for 
consideration who have:
• Achieved prominence in their fields;
• A diversity of backgrounds, including gender and  
racial/ethnic diversity;
• Experience and demonstrated expertise in managing large, 
complex organizations such as that of chief executive 
officers or senior executives of a large company or 
organization with global operations;
• Expertise in financial and other risk management;
• Experience on one or more boards of significant public 
organizations or nonprofit organizations;
• Expertise resulting from significant professional or 
academically based scientific or research activities; and
• Experience with cyclical businesses such as commodities.
The board affairs committee considers recommendations from 
shareholders and board directors to help ensure the selection 
process is collaborative. At year-end 2019, 44 percent of the 
board’s independent directors were female and/or a  
racial/ethnic minority.Board risk oversight and sustainability engagement
ExxonMobil’s full board of directors provides oversight of key risks 
to the company’s business.
As a whole, the board reviews litigation and other legal matters; 
political contributions, budget and policy; lobbying costs; 
developments in climate science and policy; the company’s work 
to project future global energy supply and demand, including the 
Outlook for Energy; the Energy & Carbon Summary; stewardship 
of business performance; and long-term strategic plans.
The board receives updates and reviews from internal and 
external experts on issues of importance to the company. The 
board oversees a broad spectrum of interrelated risks, with 
assistance from its committees. This integrated risk management 
approach facilitates recognition and oversight of important  
risk interdependencies.
Sustainability-related topics typically fall under the purview of 
the Public Issues and Contributions Committee. The committee 
oversees operational risks, such as those relating to employee 
and community safety, health and environmental performance, 
including actions taken to address climate change-related  
risks; security matters; and reviews and provides advice on 
objectives, policies and programs related to political and  
other contributions.
The board, including the Public Issues and Contributions 
Committee, visits an ExxonMobil operations site each year .  
These visits enable directors to observe and provide input 
on safety, operating practices, environmental performance, 
technology, products, industry and corporate standards, and 
community engagement.
Recently, the independent lead director , along with the full board, 
provided oversight as management guided the company’s 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic through a series of actions 
that helped protect our employees, the communities in which 
we work and people around the world. To learn more about our 
COVID-19 response, please see the case study on page 34.31 | Sustainability Report HighlightsEngaging with governments
Transparency in payments to governments 
ExxonMobil recognizes the importance of disclosing relevant payments to governments to reduce corruption, 
improve government accountability and promote greater economic stability worldwide. We consider the most 
successful transparency initiatives are those that:
• Apply to all foreign, domestic and state-owned companies;
• Protect proprietary information to promote commercial competitiveness;
• Comply with international trade conventions and treaties; and
• Do not violate host government laws or contractual obligations.  
ExxonMobil is an original member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global organization 
that promotes the accountable management of oil, natural gas and mineral resources. Companies and 
governments participating in EITI report payments and revenues, which enables EITI to reconcile any differences 
between the totals and publish validated total government revenues.
We actively participate at the EITI secretariat and country levels. Every year , an ExxonMobil representative serves 
on the EITI board as either a primary or alternate member .
We work with several governments that are EITI members, as well as others considering membership.
Policy engagement 
ExxonMobil believes sound public policy should include input from a variety of stakeholders. We recognize 
public policy decisions made at all levels of government can have significant effects on our current and future 
operations. We exercise our right to support policies that promote stable investment for long-term  
business viability.
ExxonMobil works in countries around the world and recognizes the importance 
of transparency and accountability with each of them. GOVERNANCE32 | Sustainability Report HighlightsExxonMobil engages with U.S. lawmakers to support responsible 
economic, energy and environmental policies.Around the world, we engaged on several issues in 2019 to support 
responsible economic, energy and environmental policies, including:
• Free-market policies: A level playing field within our energy 
markets is vital if consumers and families are to continue 
to have access to affordable, reliable and safe energy for 
homes and businesses. Preferential treatment for certain 
energy sources undermines the market and raises costs for 
consumers, families and businesses.  
• Energy infrastructure: In the United States alone, private 
investments in oil and natural gas infrastructure could exceed 
$1.3 trillion by 2035, adding 1 million U.S. jobs and increasing 
gross domestic product by almost $2 trillion, according to a 
study conducted by global consulting firm IFC, commissioned 
by the American Petroleum Institute. These infrastructure 
projects create jobs and deliver energy to market, safely  
and efficiently.  
• Regulatory reform: We support efforts to enhance 
transparency in our regulatory process, minimizing cost and 
maximizing efficiency.  
• Trade: ExxonMobil relies on free and fair trade agreements and 
policies, including, for example, strong investment protection 
provisions in the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement 
(USMCA). Providing a level playing field to import and export 
goods and services ultimately gives consumers greater choice.  
• Climate: ExxonMobil believes sound policy should address 
the dual challenge of reducing the risks of climate change at 
the lowest societal cost, while balancing increased demand 
for affordable energy and the need to address poverty, 
education, health and energy security. We work to encourage 
collaboration across governments, private companies, 
consumers and other stakeholders to create meaningful 
solutions to address climate change. For example, we engaged 
with the EU Commission, both directly and through trade 
associations, on the development and adoption of the EU 
methane strategy. U.S. lobbying expenses
In 2019, ExxonMobil’s U.S. federal lobbying expenses totaled 
$9.75 million, as publicly reported in our filings under the 
Lobbying Disclosure Act. Further information on the federal 
issues ExxonMobil lobbied in the United States in 2019 is 
available on our website. We also recently disclosed on our
website a list of trade associations to which we paid  
$100,000 or more and for which a portion of our payment  
was reported to be used for lobbying. 
Political contributions 
The board of directors has authorized ExxonMobil to make 
political contributions to candidate committees and other 
political organizations, as permitted by applicable laws in 
the United States and Canada. The board annually reviews 
ExxonMobil’s political contributions, as well as contributions 
from the company-sponsored Political Action Committee (PAC). 
Internal audits of the corporation’s public and government 
affairs activities routinely verify contribution amounts.
Eligible employees and shareholders may participate in the 
U.S. political process by contributing to a voluntary, company 
sponsored, federal PAC. ExxonMobil reports PAC contributions 
to the U.S. Federal Election Commission every month.
In 2019, we contributed more than $253,000 to state 
candidates and caucuses in eight U.S. states. During 2019, 
ExxonMobil’s PAC disbursed more than $719,000 to federal 
and state candidates and committees.1 Corporate political 
contributions are subject to an internal review process that 
requires approval from the chairman.33 | Sustainability Report HighlightsCase study: COVID-19 response
ExxonMobil volunteers worldwide helped distribute food to local 
communities affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.34 | Sustainability Report HighlightsAs a large, multinational corporation with operations in nearly 50 countries worldwide, ExxonMobil was well 
positioned to offer assistance to communities around the world when the COVID-19 pandemic rapidly began 
spreading in early 2020. At the same time, it was important for us to keep our employees and contractors safe, while 
also continuing to ensure we were providing essential energy and chemical products.
The men and women of ExxonMobil responded, playing an important role in the global effort to combat the virus. 
We leveraged our leadership in technology and manufacturing, coupled with our culture of ingenuity and care for our 
people and the communities where we work. 
Protecting our workforce’s health and safety while maintaining critical operations 
On our offshore platforms, in our refineries, at our lubricants and chemical plants, and throughout our facilities 
worldwide, our employees and contractors safely maintained critical operations.
In the earliest days of the pandemic, we activated emergency response teams and implemented business continuity 
plans, building on lessons learned from previous pandemics such as SARS and Ebola. ExxonMobil has comprehensive 
procedures and processes that we activate to respond to emergency events.
Certain aspects of our operations function 24/7. The COVID-19 pandemic presented unique and challenging 
circumstances, since some operations entail working and living in close proximity to others. Many of our employees 
and contractors spent months at work, quarantined and isolated from their families, in order to deliver the energy 
and products that are essential to society. At our offshore facilities, we worked with local governments as needed to 
manage rotational crew changes safely, including chartering flights while international airports remained closed. 
Our preventive and mitigation safeguards, combined with coordinated internal communications, helped protect the 
health and safety of our workers and their dependents. Enhanced cleaning and distancing protocols were put in place 
at offices and facilities, and additional personal protective equipment was provided to employees. We continued to 
refine these measures in consultation with internal and external health experts as new information about the virus 
became available. 
To address the personal needs of employees, we deployed our workplace flexibility programs, childcare and elder care 
referral services, school-transition support and peer-to-peer connection networks. 
We also sought to help our customers at Exxon-, Mobil- and Esso-branded service stations. For example, in the United 
States and Canada, we advised our wholesalers, retailers and their service station personnel on more frequent cleaning 
and sanitizing of sites – from fuel nozzles to store countertops to door handles. Further , we encouraged consumers to 
use mobile payment options through our Exxon Mobil Rewards+™ app to reduce contact with surfaces at the pumps.35 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Case study: COVID-19 response
Mobil-branded service stations in Thailand provided masks and hand sanitizer in 
response to COVID-19.
Case study: COVID-19 response
ExxonMobil donated hand sanitizer and personal protective equipment to 
first responders around the world.36 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Supporting emergency responders and medical personnel 
By mid-April 2020, the need for medical masks, hospital gowns and other medical equipment and packaging 
had increased significantly. We answered this demand by increasing our manufacturing capability of specialized 
polypropylene at facilities in Louisiana, Texas and Singapore to enable production of hundreds of millions of 
masks and tens of millions of gowns each month.
At the same time, we boosted production and supply of isopropyl alcohol – a key ingredient in many disinfectant 
products – to enable production of millions of bottles of hand sanitizer . We provided thousands of gallons of 
isopropyl alcohol to make urgently needed disinfectant for the U.S. Transportation Security Administration to 
protect its officers and passengers in airports across the United States. We also answered a request from New 
York state officials who needed large quantities of isopropyl alcohol to make hand sanitizer for emergency 
responders, primary care health professionals, senior health centers and others. We made similar donations of 
isopropyl alcohol and specialty polypropylene and polyethylene in other countries. 
We did our best to meet growing demand from the private sector as well. For example, we provided isopropyl 
alcohol to E.T. Browne, a small, family-owned business best known for its Palmer’s® personal care products, 
when it decided to repurpose its Pennsylvania factory to make medical-grade hand sanitizer for the U.S. military 
and medical first responders. 
In late April, we went beyond production by temporarily reconfiguring manufacturing operations at our 
Louisiana facilities to enable us to produce, blend, package and distribute hand sanitizer . The Federal Emergency 
Management Agency distributed these supplies amongst organizations supporting COVID-19 first responders 
across the United States.
Additionally, we deployed our technical and logistical expertise to help solve problems associated with shortages 
of personal protective equipment, which typically can only be used for short periods before having to be replaced. 
We collaborated with the Association of the Nonwoven Fabrics Industry and contributed technical and product 
application expertise to help support the development of masks and face shields to protect first responders, 
medical caregivers and the general public in their return to work. Case study: COVID-19 response
During the COVID-19 pandemic, our employees worked safely to help keep vital energy and 
products flowing, including isopropyl alcohol, a key ingredient in many disinfectant products.
37 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Helping our communities
We complemented these efforts by helping our local communities. 
In the greater Houston area – home to more than 10,000 ExxonMobil personnel – we supported food banks, 
hospitals, police and firefighters. We also partnered with the Texas Restaurant Association to support hard-hit, local 
restaurants preparing thousands of meals for donation to frontline workers. 
In the Permian region in West Texas and New Mexico, we provided assistance to local food banks, as well as to the 
Carlsbad, New Mexico, Municipal School District to support technology improvements for online education. Similar 
efforts were undertaken in communities across the United States where ExxonMobil employees live and work.
Outside of the United States, many affiliates and employees around the world contributed money, technical 
equipment, fuel, isopropyl alcohol, specialty products and logistics assistance to support local COVID-19  
relief work.
For example, in Canada, our affiliate Imperial Oil Limited offered 80,000 Esso and Mobil fuel vouchers worth  
$2 million to frontline nurses, paramedics and doctors as part of its Heroes Campaign. Our India affiliate partnered 
with United Way Mumbai to deliver protective gear to hospitals in Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore. In China, we 
provided lubricants needed for ambulances and the construction of hospitals, along with tens of thousands of 
masks and protective suits. 
In Belgium, we provided monetary support to major clinical trial efforts at University Hospital Antwerp and 
University Hospital Leuven, which researched potential treatments and a vaccine for COVID-19.
We also worked with authorities to help slow the spread of COVID-19. In Papua New Guinea, for instance, 
we offered our network of more than 50 Village Liaison Officers to help government health officials provide 
information in remote areas where the company operates. These Village Liaison Officers – typically clan leaders or 
councilors who inform community members about our activities and hear local concerns – helped raise awareness 
of COVID-19 prevention and safety measures, as well as how to implement proper social distancing.
Our work to support the response to the COVID-19 pandemic was part of our long-standing commitment 
to safeguarding the health and security of our employees and the public, and to supporting the needs of the 
communities in which we live and work – a commitment we have embraced throughout our company’s history.The Sustainability Report Highlights summarizes ExxonMobil’s approach 
to managing our operations and describes our environmental, social 
and governance performance. This report focuses on 10 key topics for 
our business. For further information on all topics that are important to 
ExxonMobil, please visit our website. 
We developed this year’s report in accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators of 
IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for advancing environmental and social issues, 
the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and the American Petroleum 
Institute (API). This report focuses primarily on ExxonMobil’s operations from January 1, 2019, 
through December 31, 2019, unless otherwise indicated, since full-year 2020 data were not 
available at the time of publication.
This report uses qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to describe our policies, 
programs, practices and performance. Many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this 
report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable 
at the time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees.
Materiality assessment
Consistent with IPIECA’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 
ExxonMobil began conducting annual “materiality assessments” in 2006 to identify 
environmental, social and governance issues of particular interest to our stakeholders and to 
ensure our analysis reflects events and changing business priorities. The results of our assessment 
help inform the development of this report. Read more about our materiality assessment . We list the material issues for the full Sustainability Report below. For the purposes of this report, 
the concept of “material issues” refers to IPIECA reporting guidance on potential disclosures and 
does not correspond to the concept of materiality used in the securities laws and disclosures 
required by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Visit our content index for a detailed 
mapping of the locations of information regarding these issues.
ENVIRONMENT
• Environmental management 
system
• Engaging on climate change policy
• Managing climate change risks
• Developing innovative products 
and technology
• Managing impacts on air and water
• Plastic waste management 
• Spill performance 
• Biodiversity and ecosystem servicesSOCIAL
• Safety
• Workplace security
• Community investments 
• Working with local 
communities 
• Human rights 
• Supply chain management
• Healthy and engaged 
workforce GOVERNANCE
• Ethics and integrity
• Board leadership 
• Engaging with  
governments
• Shareholder relationsAbout the Sustainability Report Highlights
More about this report Additional resources
Energy & Carbon Summary Energy Factor Summary Annual Report The Outlook for EnergyExplore our online   
Sustainability Report
exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport
Content index
exxonmobil.com/contentindex
Report archive
exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreportarchive38 | Sustainability Report HighlightsWe assess our performance to support continual improvements throughout the company. Since 2011, performance data include XTO Energy information. 
In 2014, we started reporting our data over a 10-year period to demonstrate trends over time as part of our commitment to transparency. The reporting 
guidelines and indicators of IPIECA, the International Oil and Gas Producers Association and the American Petroleum Institute Oil and Gas Industry 
Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2015) informed which data we included in the performance table. For additional information on our 
sustainability reporting, please visit our content index .Performance data
3 Greenhouse gas emissions, absolute (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons
4 Direct (excluding emissions from exported power and heat)
5 Emissions associated with imported power
CO2 (excluding emissions from exported power and heat)
Methane (CO2-equivalent)
Other gases (CO2-equivalent)
Emissions from exported power and heat
By-region greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons
Africa/Europe/Middle East
Americas
Asia Pacific
By-division greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons
Upstream
Downstream
Chemical
3 Greenhouse gas emissions, normalized (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), 
  metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production
Upstream
Downstream
Chemical126
117
9
122
3
1
13
45
64
17
50
55
21
20.5
20.8
57.92019
128
119
9
124
3
1
15
45
66
17
54
54
20
20.7
20.0
57.22010
126
118
8
120
5
1
15
44
68
14
56
51
19
22.3
19.6
56.32011
127
119
8
119
7
1
16
44
70
13
58
49
20
23.2
19.7
57.92012
124
116
8
116
7
1
8
43
66
15
56
47
21
24.0
19.2
54.52013
120
111
9
114
6
<1
3
37
66
17
55
42
23
25.4
19.1
52.82014
122
114
8
115
6
1
4
44
65
13
56
45
21
25.7
18.9
54.82015
125
117
8
117
7
1
3
45
64
16
59
45
21
26.3
19.4
53.92016
123
115
8
116
7
<1
3
43
64
16
58
43
22
26.3
18.6
54.2124
116
8
117
7
<1
3
42
63
19
58
42
24
26.8
18.6
55.52017 2018Environment239 | Sustainability Report HighlightsEnergy use (billion gigajoules)
Upstream (gigajoules per metric tons production)
Downstream (gigajoules per metric tons throughput)
Chemical (gigajoules per metric tons product)
6 -Hydrocarbon flaring (worldwide activities), millions of standard cubic feet per day
7 Cogeneration capacity in which we have interest, gigawatts
Freshwater withdrawn, millions of cubic meters
Freshwater consumption, millions of cubic meters
Freshwater intensity, metric tons of water consumed per metric tons of throughput or production
Upstream
Downstream
Chemical
Marine vessel spills (owned and long-term leased), number of hydrocarbon spills > 1 barrel
Spills (not from marine vessels), number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel
Hydrocarbons spilled (oil spilled), thousands of barrels
Other spills, thousands of barrels
Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons
Upstream
Downstream
Sulfur dioxide (SO2) emitted, millions of metric tons
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons
Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars
Total dollars spent on environmental penalties, fines and settlements, billions of dollars
Total hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons
8 Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons1.5
2.0
3.0
9.5
380
4.9
N/A
330
0.1
0.9
2.4
0
210
7.7
40.4
1.3
1.1
0.2
0.14
0.12
0.17
4.5
0.011
0.6
1.32019 2010
1.5
2.0
3.0
11.4
430
5.0
540
370
0.3
0.9
2.6
0
484
17.8
2.0
1.3
1.1
0.2
0.13
0.15
0.18
4.9
0.003
1.3
1.92011
1.5
2.0
3.0
12.0
380
5.2
520
330
0.3
0.8
2.4
0
356
8.5
1.6
1.2
1.0
0.2
0.13
0.14
0.15
5.5
0.004
1.7
2.02012
1.4
2.1
3.0
10.9
390
5.3
420
280
0.2
0.7
2.0
0
332
9.3
0.9
1.1
1.0
0.1
0.12
0.14
0.15
6.0
0.002
1.1
0.32013
1.4
2.3
2.9
10.7
470
5.5
420
270
0.2
0.7
1.8
0
337
9.1
4.1
1.3
1.2
0.1
0.10
0.14
0.16
6.2
0.015
1.0
0.32014
1.5
2.4
2.9
10.9
570
5.5
450
300
0.4
0.7
1.8
0
321
10.8
0.4
1.1
1.0
0.1
0.11
0.14
0.16
5.7
0.006
1.4
0.22015
1.5
2.4
2.9
10.6
530
5.3
430
280
0.3
0.8
1.8
0
220
4.7
3.7
1.1
1.0
0.1
0.11
0.13
0.15
4.9
0.006
1.4
0.12016
1.4
2.5
2.9
10.5
410
5.4
440
290
0.3
0.8
1.8
0
204
6.9
1.8
1.7
1.6
0.1
0.10
0.12
0.14
4.7
0.001
1.5
0.21.5
2.5
3.0
10.0
410
5.4
470
310
0.5
0.7
1.8
0
334
11.3
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.1
0.10
0.12
0.16
4.9
0.001
1.1
0.21.5
2.5
3.0
10.0
430
5.4
460
290
0.5
0.7
1.8
0
352
7.5
0.6
0.7
0.5
0.1
0.09
0.12
0.15
5.2
<0.001
1.4
0.22017 2018Performance data40 | Sustainability Report Highlights
Environment CONTINUED22019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Fatalities — employees
Fatalities — contractors
9 Fatal accident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)
9 Fatal incident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)
10 Lost-time incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours)
10 Lost-time incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)
10 Lost-time incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)
10 Total recordable incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours)
10 Total recordable incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)
10 Total recordable incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)
Tier 1 Process Safety Event rate (API RP 754 guidance, per 200,000 work hours)
11 Number of regular employees at year end, thousands
11 Percent of workforce — non-U.S.
11 Percent women — global workforce
Percent management and professional new hires — women
Percent management and professional new hires — non-U.S.
Number of employee participants in corporate and technical training, thousands
Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars
12 Community investments, millions of dollars
United States
Rest of world
13 ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers, millions of dollars
ExxonMobil spending with U.S. certified, tier 1, diverse suppliers, millions of dollars0
1
0.002
0.002
0.031
0.034
0.033
0.15
0.25
0.21
0.049
75
60
29
37
65
88
77
252.5
117.4
135.1
2,727
6430
3
0.006
0.006
0.048
0.031
0.038
0.25
0.34
0.30
0.041
84
60
26
40
70
61
77
237.1
154.8
82.3
8410
9
0.017
0.017
0.064
0.086
0.077
0.30
0.41
0.37
0.043
82
61
26
44
79
65
80
278.4
161.3
117.1
1,0681
4
0.009
0.009
0.041
0.049
0.046
0.25
0.37
0.33
0.038
77
59
28
39
68
76
88
255.6
156.5
99.1
1,0010
6
0.011
0.009
0.051
0.041
0.044
0.22
0.32
0.29
0.036
75
59
28
39
66
87
96
269.5
156.3
113.2
1,0240
3
0.006
0.006
0.032
0.031
0.031
0.19
0.29
0.26
0.04
75
58
28
40
61
79
117
279.5
150.2
129.3
1,1080
2
0.004
0.004
0.045
0.029
0.035
0.21
0.26
0.24
0.051
73
59
28
41
61
85
124
272.3
145.5
126.8
1,0640
3
0.008
0.008
0.027
0.030
0.029
0.16
0.23
0.20
0.055
71
59
28
44
74
83
108
241.5
131.1
110.4
1,4420
2
0.005
0.005
0.034
0.027
0.030
0.15
0.23
0.19
0.051
70
60
28
41
67
98
94
204.0
125.3
78.7
1,9020
3
0.007
0.007
0.037
0.031
0.033
0.14
0.26
0.21
0.054
71
60
29
37
62
87
62
211.0
112.0
99.0
2,267
14 Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries
Corporate political contributions — U.S. state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars
Percent of shares represented at Corporation’s Annual Meeting7
1.10
80.77
0.51
81.97
1.03
83.09
0.70
82.310
1.17
82.911
0.58
83.915
0.52
85.118
0.51
85.719
0.62
85.521
1.13
86.7Social
GovernancePerformance data41 | Sustainability Report HighlightsFootnotes
† Natural gas converted to oil-equivalent barrels using 6 million cubic feet per 1,000 barrels.
‡ Sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.
1 Totals may not reflect some candidates’ failure to deposit, or returned contributions not yet posted.
2 ExxonMobil-operated emission estimates are based on a combination of measured and estimated emissions data using best available information. Our calculations are based on industry standards and best practices, including 
guidance from the American Petroleum Institute (API) and IPIECA. The uncertainty associated with the emission estimates depends on variation in the processes and operations, the availability of sufficient data, the quality of those 
data and methodology used for measurement and estimation. Changes to the estimates may be reported as updated data and/or emission methodologies become available. We work with industry, including API and IPIECA, to 
improve emission factors and methodologies. Emission estimates from non-ExxonMobil-operated facilities are included in the equity data. The data include XTO Energy performance beginning in 2011. 
3 The net equity greenhouse gas emissions metric was introduced in 2011 as a replacement for the direct equity greenhouse gas metric. Information has been restated back to 2010 according to the new metric. The net equity 
greenhouse gas metric includes direct and imported greenhouse gas emissions and excludes emissions from exports (including Hong Kong Power through mid-2014). ExxonMobil reports greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity 
basis for all our business operations, reflecting our percent ownership in an asset.
4 The addition of direct emissions and emissions associated with exported power and heat is equivalent to World Resources Institute (WRI) Scope 1.
5 These emissions are equivalent to WRI Scope 2.
6 Flaring increased in 2019 due to start-up of growth projects in the Upstream and as a result of implementing measures to comply with new regulatory requirements in Downstream and Chemical manufacturing. We anticipate 
meeting our 2020 flaring reduction target.
7 Cumulative figure.
8 The value for hazardous waste from ongoing operations includes produced water classified as hazardous waste by one local authority, which is approximately 80-95 percent of the reported figure in 2010-2012.
9 Workforce includes employees and contractors. Accidents or incidents include both injuries and illnesses. From 2010 through 2019, all fatalities were injury-related.
10 Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors.
11 Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil and are covered by ExxonMobil’s benefit plans and programs. 
Employees at our company-operated retail stores are not included.
12 Total contributions include donations from ExxonMobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift and volunteer programs.
13 Beginning in 2015, our spending encompassed an expanded set of diverse classifications that includes: minority-owned businesses, women-owned businesses, small business-owned, lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-
owned businesses, veteran-owned businesses, service-disabled veteran-owned businesses and businesses owned by peoples with disabilities. Prior to 2014, spending included minority- and women-owned businesses.
14 In countries where ExxonMobil has an upstream business presence.
N/A is used to indicate that data are not available.42 | Sustainability Report HighlightsExxon Mobil Corporation
Corporate Headquarters
5959 Las Colinas Blvd.
Irving, Texas 75039-2298
exxonmobil.comExplore our online Sustainability Report  
at exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport .
ON THE COVER
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, ExxonMobil 
temporarily reconfigured manufacturing operations 
in Louisiana to produce, blend, package and 
distribute hand sanitizer .
