Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG)
Progress Report 2020/2021Contents2 Overview 
3	 A	letter	from	our	CEO	
5 2020/2021 Highlights 
6	 Our	company	
7	 Our	ESG	approach
10	 Access	to	health
16	 Employees	
19	 Environmental	sustainability
23	 Awards	and	recognition
24	 References
25 GRI/SASB disclosures 
26	 General	disclosures	
50 Economic 
83 Environmental 
118 Social 
171 Indices 
171	 Global	Reporting	Initiative	(GRI)
179	 Sustainability	Accounting	 
Standards	Board	(SASB)
182	 UN	Global	Compact
183	 UN	Sustainable	Development	 
Goals	(SDGs)
185	 Culture	of	Health	for	 
Business	(COH4B)
187	 World	Economic	Forum	(WEF)	
Stakeholder	Capitalism	Metrics
About this report
This is the Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Progress 
Report 2020/2021 of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., 
which is known as MSD outside the United States (U.S.) and 
Canada. Information on documents filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC), such as our Form 10-K and Proxy 
Statement, can be found on our corporate website, which is 
intended only for residents of the U.S. and Canada. All data is 
current as of December 31, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
2
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Dear stakeholders,
For 130 years, the people of Merck have brought hope to humanity through our discovery 
of important medicines and vaccines, exemplary social responsibility and the positive 
impact on health and health equity we have achieved. Our 2020/2021 Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) Progress Report reflects our commitment to sustaining this 
legacy. Through scientific breakthroughs, inclusive clinical development strategies, and 
environmentally responsible manufacturing, our products are increasingly accessible and 
affordable to those in need around the world. 
As we face the second year of the COVID-19 pandemic, and its devastating impact on 
global health and economies, I am deeply grateful to the employees across our entire 
company. Because of their dedication and resilience, discovery research is flourishing in our 
new research hubs, and patients and customers around the world can be confident in the 
continued quality and reliable supply of our products. 
In addition, our scientists are advancing an antiviral candidate, molnupiravir, in collaboration 
with Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, for people with early COVID-19 infection outside of 
hospital settings. We have already granted voluntary licenses to a number of established 
Indian generic manufacturers to accelerate the availability of molnupiravir in India and in 
other low- and middle-income countries, contingent upon authorization by local regulatory 
agencies. We are also collaborating with Johnson & Johnson to scale up production of its 
pandemic vaccine to help expand global access.
Our ESG efforts are grounded in the core values that have always guided our mission: 
responsibility to patients and animals who need our medicines and vaccines; respect, 
inclusion and accountability to our employees; sustaining the highest standards of ethics 
and integrity; and innovation and scientific excellence. 
I am especially proud of our long-standing commitment to helping solve the world’s most 
vexing health challenges. In 2020, our products and pipeline targeted 88 percent of the top 
20 global burdens of disease. We also expanded patient access to these essential therapies 
and are working to improve health equity for more people in low- and middle-income 
countries and in underserved people in the United States, through our social investments. 
For example, we are celebrating the 10th year anniversary of Merck for Mothers, our $500 
million investment in innovative programming that is helping to eliminate preventable 
causes of maternal mortality.A letter from  
our CEO
Robert M. Davis  
Chief Executive Officer and President
Visit our corporate website   
to learn more about our 
COVID-19 
related actions
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 3
 Overview
I’m committed to accelerating Merck’s success in cultivating a diverse and inclusive workforce 
and a culture that inspires creativity and promotes health and wellbeing. Today, 46 percent of our 
company’s board of directors are women and 23 percent are from underrepresented groups. We have 
also come a long way with our workforce, and are confident that our momentum will allow us  
to achieve our new Global Diversity & Inclusion goals—with a special focus on senior leadership roles.
We’ve taken big steps to accelerate the impact of our environmental sustainability agenda as well.  
By 2025, our goal is to achieve carbon neutrality across our operations—for our Scope 1 and 2 
emissions (the fossil fuels we burn on site and the electricity we purchase). We will also accelerate  
by 15 years our previous 2040 goal to source 100 percent renewable energy for purchased electricity. 
In addition, we are committed to reducing our Scope 3 value chain emissions 30 percent by 2030,  
by continuing to engage with suppliers to help reduce their emissions. 
These and other examples of our ESG progress are detailed in this report, which uses widely 
recognized reporting frameworks. Our goals are informed by our ESG materiality assessment,  
as well as input from stakeholders, and can be found on page 9 of the report. The report also reflects 
our support for the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and recognizes the important  
role we play in helping to meet the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
We have prioritized eight SDGs where we are positioned to have the most significant impact.  
Of these, our primary focus is SDG 3, Good Health and Well-being, which aligns with our core 
business. This involves helping to ensure our science advances health care and our products  
are accessible and affordable to those in need, and while doing so, minimizing our impact on  
the environment, promoting inclusive economic growth, and establishing partnerships to achieve  
our goals.
As I assume responsibility for ensuring our ongoing success as a socially responsible company,  
I am grateful for the extraordinary vision of Ken Frazier, our executive chairman and former CEO. 
His commitment to investing in discovery and translational research as the source of our long-term 
business success, and the social value we contribute to our patients and customers, has never 
wavered. His leadership and values are reflected in the ingenuity, resilience and perseverance  
that our employees have shown throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, and permeate every  
aspect of our company.
I am proud of what the people of Merck have achieved this year and I am excited about the 
opportunity to build on our innovation, science and extraordinary talent to realize a better  
future for generations to come. 
Sincerely,  
 
Robert M. Davis  
Chief Executive Officer and President
 "I am proud of what the people of 
Merck have achieved this year and I 
am excited about the opportunity to 
build on our innovation, science and 
extraordinary talent to realize a better 
future for generations to come. "
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
4
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
2020/2021 Highlights  To view our ESG goals, please see page 9 .
$3 billion
cash grants, in-kind donations  
and product donations1
38% purchased 
electricity  
from renewable sources1,7 
20% members of 
underrepresented 
ethnic groups (U.S.)
in senior management roles1,6
26 languages
availability of our Business 
Partner Code of Conduct around 
the globe
48% sites  
sent ZERO waste to landfill1 
$2.3 billion
spend with diverse suppliers1
>99% of employees
trained on our ethical expectations 
and principles found in our Code  
of Conduct
417 million 
treatments
of MECTIZAN approved in 2020  
to eliminate river blindness and 
lymphatic filariasis (LF)
31% women
in senior management roles1,6
14 assessment 
guides
developed to detect and address 
human rights and environmental 
impact risks in our supply chain
Science-Based 
Targets 
certification received for our goals to 
reduce Scopes 1 & 2 GHG emissions 
46%, and Scope 3 GHG emissions 
30%, by 2030
23% members of 
underrepresented 
ethnic groups 
in Board roles4
285 million 
people
reached through investment in 
partnerships, programs and impact 
investment that support health 
care capacity-building and address 
underlying barriers to access to health5
46% women
in Board roles4
88%
of the top 20 global burdens  
of disease targeted with our 
products and pipeline1,2,3
5
 GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 5
 Overview
Our company
We invent for life.
For more than 130 years, Merck has been inventing for life, bringing 
forward medicines and vaccines for many of the world’s most 
challenging diseases in pursuit of our mission to save and improve lives. 
We aspire to be the premier research-intensive biopharmaceutical 
company in the world and demonstrate our commitment to patients 
and population health by increasing access to health care through 
our policies, programs and partnerships. Today, we continue to be at 
the forefront of research to prevent and treat diseases that threaten 
people and animals—including cancer, infectious diseases such as HIV 
and Ebola, and emerging animal diseases.
Research	and	products 	
We bring creative minds together to transform world-class science 
into life-changing medicines and vaccines to address the world’s most 
difficult health concerns. Our scientists are revolutionizing how we 
discover and develop medicines and vaccines to address pressing 
health needs in the areas of oncology, vaccines, infectious diseases  
and cardio-metabolic disorders.
 More information about our products, pipeline and patient support 
programs is available on our corporate website as well as our Merck 
Animal Health website.
74,000
employees1
78% of countries 
around the world reached with 
our products8
$13.6 billion
invested in R&D
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
6
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Our ESG approach 
We are committed to a high level of environment, social and governance (ESG) performance, which helps us drive sustainable value for our  
business and society. Our ESG strategy ensures that we apply our global resources and investments to ESG priority areas that matter most: 
expanding access to health, developing and rewarding a diverse, inclusive and healthy workforce, protecting the environment and operating  
with the highest standards of ethics and values. Through these four focus areas, we continue to challenge ourselves to innovate, make ambitious 
commitments and form collaborative partnerships to solve major global issues. We hold ourselves accountable to those we serve through our 
governance and reporting practices. 
Guided by stakeholder input, our ESG actions are integrated into our business strategy. We recently established the ESG Strategy Management 
Team, a group of senior-level functional experts within the company, to strategically assess and activate long-term business actions related to our 
ESG focus areas.
Operating with ethics, integrity and respect for human rights is critical to our success. Our Ethics & Values focus area is foundational to our work in 
the other three areas.
Employees 
We	recognize	 that	our	ability	to	
excel	depends	on	the	integrity, 	
knowledge,	imagination,	skill, 	
diversity	and	wellbeing	of 	 
our	employees.
Environmental 
sustainability
A	healthy	planet	is	essential 	
to	human	health	and	the 	
sustainability	of	our	business.
Ethics & values 
Through	our	unwavering 	
commitment	to	transparency, 	
we	earn	the	trust	and 	
confidence	of	our	stakeholders.
Access to health 
In	collaboration	with	key 	
stakeholders,	we	have	a	role 	
to	play	in	helping	to	ensure	our 	
science	advances	health	care, 	
and	our	products	are	accessible 	
and	affordable	to	those	in	need.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 7
 Overview
Access  
to health
Environmental  
sustainability
Ethics  
& values
•  Employee health  
and safety
• Employee engagement  
  and diversity•  Access to medicine
•  Product quality  
and safety
•  Public health risks
•  Climate change •  Business ethics
•  Ethics in R&D
•  Data security  
and privacy
•  Governance structures  
and mechanisms For more information about our  
ESG materiality assessment, please see 
GRI 102-46 on page 47 . ESG	materiality 	
Understanding and prioritizing the 
ESG issues that matter most to our 
business and stakeholders enables us 
to focus and report on them effectively 
and transparently. Our ESG materiality 
assessment process provides us with 
an opportunity to listen and engage our 
many stakeholders, helps us improve 
as an organization through focused 
actions, and yields insight into future 
trends and potential business risks and 
opportunities that influence our ability 
to create value.
Sustainable	Development	Goals 	
The SDGs represent the international community’s plan of action for 
“people, planet and prosperity.” The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015, 
provides a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the 
planet, now and into the future. At its heart are the 17 SDGs, which are 
an urgent call for action by all countries in a global partnership.
At Merck, we believe we have an important role and responsibility to 
help reduce the burden of disease and improve access to medicines 
and vaccines around the world. That is why SDG 3 (Good Health and  A full SDG index can be found on page 183.Well-being) is at the core of our business and is aligned with our 
mission to save and improve lives. While we realize that all of the SDGs 
are essential to fostering sustainable development, we have prioritized 
eight global goals where we are positioned to have the biggest impact. Our priority topics
From our 2021 ESG materiality assessment update, we identified the following top priorities for our stakeholders from among 
the 32 most significant ESG topics for our sector. To learn more about this process, see page 48.
Employees
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
8
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Our	ESG	goals
We expanded our ESG goals to reflect our ongoing commitment to the long-term health of our patients, communities, planet, employees, shareholders and society.  
In addition, an expanded set of environmental goals can be found on on pages 19–22,  93, 100 , 101 and 107 , and additional access to health goals on page 57 .
Achieve carbon neutrality across 
our operations by 2025 (Scopes 1 
& 2 emissions).15
Reduce our operational 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
(i.e., Scopes 1 & 2) 46% by 2030, 
from a 2019 baseline. 
Source 100% of our purchased 
electricity from renewables  
by 2025.7
Work with our suppliers to 
achieve a 30% reduction in  
Scope 3 GHG emissions by 2030, 
from a 2019 baseline. Foster a “Speak Up” culture 
by maintaining or exceeding 
our current percentage 
of employees responding 
favorably to the “Speak 
Freely” question in the Pulse 
survey as an annual average.16
Maintain 100% compliance  
to regulatory requirements 
for active incident monitoring, 
risk/harm analysis and  
on-time notification of  
data breaches.17
Further advance health 
equity by reaching 30 million 
people in low- and middle-
income countries and in U.S. 
underserved populations 
with our social investments, 
by 2025.9
Reach at least 75% of 
countries around the world 
annually with our products.10
Enable 100 million more 
people to access our 
innovative portfolio globally, 
through access strategies, 
solutions and partnerships, 
by 2025.11
Employees Ethics  
& valuesEnvironmental 
sustainability
Increase representation in 
senior management roles,12  
by 2024: 
• Women globally to 40%,  
up from 31% in 2020. 
• Black/African Americans in the 
U.S. to 10%, up from 3% in 2020. 
• Hispanics/Latinos in the U.S.  
to 10%, up from 5% in 2020. 
Maintain or exceed our current 
inclusion index score, by 2025.13
Maintain or exceed our current 
employee engagement index 
score, by 2025.14
Access  
to health
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 9
 Overview
Access to health
Enabling greater access to health around the world
With strategic input and guidance from our Public Policy and 
Responsibility Council (PPRC), our global approach to access is guided 
by our Access to Health Guiding Principles, which span the areas of 
discovery and invention, availability, affordability, and strengthening 
systems and addressing inequity. Strategies and actions to enable 
access are embedded across Merck. 
As a research-intensive biopharmaceutical company, our role is 
first and foremost to discover and develop, in a responsible and 
economically sustainable manner, innovative medicines and vaccines 
that address unmet medical needs and tackle some of the world’s 
greatest health threats. 
Our research and development (R&D) priorities focus on addressing 
vital global health needs where we can have the greatest impact, now 
and in the future. We invest in R&D to address infectious diseases 
that have a significant global public health burden, including in low- 
and middle-income countries (LMICs), and where emerging science 
suggests opportunities to substantially reduce this burden through 
medicines or vaccines. Our R&D priorities also address the increasing 
need for new therapies or vaccines targeted at diseases such as cancer, 
cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and other metabolic diseases, 
neurosciences and respiratory diseases. In 2020, our products and 
pipeline targeted 88 percent of the top 20 global burdens of disease.1,2,3
We also recognize that, in collaboration with key stakeholders, we have 
a role to play in helping to ensure our science advances health care, 
and our products are accessible and affordable. We are committed to 
ensuring a reliable, safe global supply of quality medicines and vaccines, 
and to developing, testing and implementing innovative solutions 
that address barriers to access and affordability of our medicines and 
vaccines. Our approach enables us to serve the greatest number of 
patients today, while meeting the needs of patients in the future. 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
10
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Planning	for	product 	 
access strategies
We evaluate our R&D candidates to identify the potential to address 
significant public health challenges and unmet medical needs of 
patients, including in resource-constrained settings. Our approach 
involves assessing the level of disease burden that exists, the 
availability of alternative medications and the appropriateness  
of our products to improve public health. Additionally, understanding 
where health system infrastructure and funding mechanisms are in 
place is an important component of enabling safe and effective usage, 
which ultimately facilitates meaningful patient access. This process 
informs our product access solutions with the goal of making our 
medicines and vaccines available to as many people as possible. 
Health care access  
and	affordability
Our approach to expanding access and patient reach is predicated  
on the belief that broadening access requires sustained effort and  
is best achieved through solving the underlying challenges in the  
health care system. We expand access to our products through 
dedicated, market-based affordability solutions. We consider public 
health needs, economic conditions and health care infrastructure 
when designing these solutions, providing flexibility to reach at-need 
populations and patients.In many markets around the world, including LMICs, one of the recurring 
access challenges patients face is the potentially high out-of-pocket 
costs for critical illness treatments, such as the treatment for cancer. 
Recognizing this, we collaborate with reinsurers and insurance companies 
in several countries to enable them to develop accessible health insurance 
products that cover innovative cancer therapies. This provides options for 
the population and drives greater health care inclusion. 
As this model further expands, it offers the potential to solve one 
major access hurdle and widen access to innovative cancer therapies 
for patients in a commercially sustainable way. The approach reinforces 
our commitment to being part of a wider ecosystem, collaborating with 
others with complementary capability to tackle affordability challenges.
When market-based solutions are inadequate or unavailable, we 
pursue programs to provide direct access to our medicines and 
vaccines, including product donations and patient assistance programs. 
In low-income countries, we continue our long-standing policy of not 
filing for product patents.
268 million
estimated people reached 
globally through product 
donation and patient assistance 
programs and partnerships
40 countries
where dedicated affordability 
solutions have been initiatedOngoing commitment to address  
the global HIV epidemic
Building upon our proud legacy of innovation in HIV 
prevention, we are collaborating with the Bill & Melinda 
Gates Foundation on a pivotal Phase 3 study to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of islatravir as a once-monthly oral PrEP 
(Pre-exposure prophylaxis) option in women and adolescent 
girls at high risk for HIV infection in sub-Saharan Africa. More 
than half of new HIV infections globally occur in sub-Saharan 
Africa, with women accounting for nearly 60 percent of new 
infections in this region. This collaboration with the Bill & 
Melinda Gates Foundation exemplifies how we design tailored 
solutions, often in partnership with key stakeholders, to 
reach the patients and populations who can benefit from our 
innovations. For more information, visit our investigational 
HIV prevention option news story.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 11
 Overview
MECTIZAN® Donation Program:  
Our 30+ year commitment to eliminating 
neglected tropical diseases
The MECTIZAN Donation Program (MDP) is the longest-running drug 
donation program and partnership of its kind. The program works with 
partners to achieve a future free of onchocerciasis (river blindness)—
one of the leading causes of preventable blindness worldwide—and 
lymphatic filariasis (LF or elephantiasis), both of which are on the 
World Health Organization (WHO)’s list of prioritized neglected  
tropical diseases (NTDs).
Widely regarded as one of the most successful public-private health 
collaborations in the world, the MDP has influenced the development 
of a number of other drug donation programs and highlights our 
commitment to donate MECTIZAN® (ivermectin)for the treatment  
of onchocerciasis to all who need it, for as long as needed. 
We have donated 4.4 billion MECTIZAN treatments since the  
program launched in 1987, and there are now more than 15 million 
people globally who no longer need treatment for river blindness 
thanks to community-level efforts. In addition, several countries  
are making significant progress towards eliminating both diseases.  
In Latin America, four countries—Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico and 
Guatemala—have received WHO verification of river blindness 
elimination. LF has now been eliminated as a public health problem  
in Togo, Yemen and Malawi. For more information, visit the  
MECTIZAN Donation Program website. 
$2.74 million
direct financial investment  
in the program in 202019, 20Eliminating river blindness  
and lymphatic filariasis (LF) 
Countries	where	MECTIZAN	has	been	donated18
Countries	where	the	elimination	of	river 	
blindness	has	been	verified	by	the	WHOCountries	where	elimination	of	LF	as	a	public 	 
health	problem	has	been	validated	by	the	WHO
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
12
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Health	equity
Aligned with our mission to save and improve lives, we take a focused 
approach to addressing health equity. This approach helps us better 
meet the diverse needs of the populations and communities we serve, 
in recognition that everyone should have a fair and just opportunity to 
be as healthy as possible.
We have a long history of promoting health equity. Since 1957, we 
have contributed nearly $1 billion to support programs that address 
important global health and societal needs. Through July 2021, our 
company contributed or committed more than $49 million (cash and 
in-kind) in support of global, national and local COVID-19 response 
efforts, part of which includes helping to address the needs of 
vulnerable patient populations and communities most impacted by 
the pandemic.
$49 million 
annual investment in partnerships, 
programs and impact investments 
that support health care capacity-
building and address underlying 
barriers to access to health5Diversity in clinical trials
One of the ways we address health disparities is by ensuring our clinical 
trials are diverse and inclusive. Clinical trials function as the gatekeeper 
to bringing effective new medicines and vaccines safely to patients and 
communities. Therefore, it is vital that we have diverse representation 
in our research efforts. We are pursuing new ways—including 
partnerships with organizations like Black Health Matters, the National 
Urban League and the Lazarex Cancer Foundation—to recruit and 
engage clinical trial participants who are racially, socioeconomically and 
demographically representative of the communities we aim to serve.
Establishing the world’s first Ebola vaccine 
stockpile 
In early 2021, we announced an agreement with UNICEF to establish 
the world’s first global Ebola vaccine stockpile with ERVEBO® 
(Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live). This agreement represents another 
landmark milestone in the fight against Ebola and is the result of 
breakthrough innovation and collaboration across Africa and the world. 
The global stockpile will offer a critical, rapid-response tool to help 
combat future outbreaks of this highly contagious, hemorrhagic illness 
that is endemic in parts of Central and West Africa. The stockpile 
inventory will be built over time and maintained by Merck and governed 
by the International Coordinating Group (ICG) on Vaccine Provision. 
For more information, visit the UNICEF collaboration news story.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 13
 Overview
More than  
78 million 
people
reached through 
improved access 
to quality facilities 
since launchMerck for Mothers
Merck for Mothers is our company’s $500 million global initiative to 
end maternal mortality and improve the quality of maternity care. 
Since 2011, we’ve focused on strengthening health systems to sustain 
the delivery of high-quality maternity care services that benefit women 
and their communities. 
In 2021, we announced the creation of the Kenneth C. Frazier 
Award for Maternal Health Equity, a new grant award of up to 
$250,000 that will be given annually to an organization in recognition 
of its commitment to addressing racial inequities in maternal 
health outcomes.
 "It is our vision that all women experience a healthy and safe pregnancy and childbirth. With strong local 
leadership and coordinated action among our growing group of collaborators, Merck for Mothers will 
continue on our path forward to make this a reality."
— Julie L. Gerberding, M.D., M.P.H., Chief Patient Officer and Executive Vice President, Population Health & Sustainability For more information about Merck for Mothers, visit the Merck for 
Mothers website or see GRI 203 on pages 53–72 of this report. 
13 million 
women
reached with healthier 
pregnancies and safer 
deliveries in more than  
50 countries since 2012
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
14
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Animal	Health
Our global Animal Health business is dedicated to preserving and 
improving the health, wellbeing and performance of animals through 
science. We provide innovative products, application systems and 
services to our customers that reduce environmental impact, improve 
animal welfare and optimize animal productivity. Healthier animals 
mean more sustainable food supplies, protection against zoonotic 
diseases, a reduction in the burden of certain food-borne diseases 
and longer companionship for pet owners and happier pets.
As one of the only biopharmaceutical companies focused on both 
human and animal health, we recognize the interconnection between 
the health of people, animals, plants and their shared environment. 
Our company is actively collaborating with stakeholders to tackle 
major population health challenges including antimicrobial resistance, 
zoonotic diseases, vector-borne diseases and ensuring a safe and 
sustainable food supply.
Supporting a sustainable food supply 
Sustainable agriculture supports communities and helps to address 
food insecurity. It also requires continuous innovation. For this reason, 
our Animal Health business is a strong supporter of researchers 
seeking to further the field of animal science. Our programs such 
as CattleCare365, DairyCare365 and AquaCare365 are focused 
on promoting animal welfare and increasing the environmental 
sustainability of our sector. We are highly involved in associations such 
as the Consumer Goods Forum, The Global Roundtable for Sustainable 
Beef and the U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Poultry and Eggs. 
Promoting animal welfare events
We understand the complexity of animal health care, which is  
why we provide our customers with more than vaccines and 
pharmaceuticals. Our highly attended educational offerings provide 
industry-leading expertise to share best practices across fields and  
help customers maintain the health of their animals and positively 
impact their business.Supporting veterinary wellbeing 
We support the health and wellbeing of the veterinary profession 
through education and resources to help them build sustainable, 
resilient careers. In 2020, we released our second comprehensive 
study of wellbeing and mental health among U.S.-based veterinarians. 
Conducted in collaboration with the American Veterinary Medical 
Association (AVMA), the study examined job satisfaction, 
compensation, burnout, substance use disorder, cyberbullying and 
suicide among veterinarians, while evaluating potential solutions. 
Due to the impacts of COVID-19, we increased our support for mental 
health resources for veterinary professionals.
All of these efforts are in service of providing a safer and healthier future 
for humans, the environment and the species upon which we depend.
 For more information, visit our Animal Health website.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 15
 Overview
Employees
A culture that fosters diversity, inclusion, belonging and 
wellbeing drives a healthy and high-performing workforce
Black innovators and our legacy  
of invention 
A diverse workforce is not only fundamental to our 
future success, but it’s also a part of our rich history. 
 For more information, visit our news story about 
Black innovators and moments that shape our legacy . 
 See new ESG Goals for Employees. 
Throughout our history, we have fostered a diverse and inclusive culture 
that embraces different perspectives and values the contributions of each 
individual. Our long-standing commitment makes us a more innovative  
and agile company—one better attuned to the needs of patients, 
customers and the health care providers. To harness the knowledge 
and insights of our global diverse workforce, we take a thoughtful and 
strategic approach to workplace inclusion, and investments in employee 
development and wellbeing. 
Global	diversity	and	inclusion	(GD&I)
We are accelerating diversity, equity and inclusion in the health care 
ecosystem, and in the communities and societies in which we operate. 
Cultivating a diverse and inclusive workforce, and fostering an environment 
that empowers wellbeing, helps us attract and retain top talent. We 
strive to develop a culture of belonging and to ensure the diversity of our 
employees mirrors the external world. This helps us better understand 
the unique needs of the customers, health care providers and patients we 
serve, including those with different abilities.
We continue to grow our current diversity and inclusion efforts in four  
key areas: 
• Internal work environment
• Health equity
• Workforce development efforts
• Economic inclusion
We have recently announced new representation goals to increase senior 
management roles for women, and Black/African American and Hispanic/
Latino leaders by 2024. We are also adding new actions to create change 
within our company and deliver meaningful impact in the fight against 
systemic racism.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
16
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GD&I Ambassador teams and Employee 
Business Resource Groups
Our GD&I Ambassador teams and Employee Business Resource 
Groups (EBRGs) help foster our inclusion strategy. 
We have five diversity ambassador teams that work with the 
company’s GD&I Center of Excellence to increase diverse patient 
representation in clinical trials, grow supplier diversity, leverage diverse 
perspectives of employees and create strategic alliance partnerships to 
drive corporate reputation and trust. 
With more than 19,000 members across 10 groups, the EBRGs play 
a critical role in driving an inclusive culture and supporting the career 
growth of employees. They represent a diverse set of interests and 
affinities, including: 
• Alianza
• Asia Pacific Association
• capAbility Network
• Interfaith Organization
• League of Employees of African Descent (LEAD)
• Native American & Global Indigenous People
• Next Gen Network
• Rainbow Alliance
• Veterans Leadership Network
• Women’s Network
External engagement
We engage with partners to advance the efforts of our global diversity 
and inclusion commitments and to support underserved communities 
all over the world. Some of our engagements include:
• OneTen (Founding Member)
• Year Up (Corporate Partner)
• CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion (Signatory)
• Paradigm for Parity (Signatory)
• The Valuable 500 (Member)
• International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Global Business Disability 
Network (Member)Supplier diversity and inclusion
Diversity is critical for innovation and scientific 
excellence as well as for better decision-making and 
cultural agility. We exceeded our corporate goal of 
spending at least $2 billion with minority-owned, 
women-owned, veteran-owned, LGBT-owned and 
disability-owned business enterprises. This is our 35th 
year pursuing goods and services from diverse suppliers 
through our Supplier Diversity & Inclusion program.
In 2020, our employee  
business resource group,  
League of Employees of  
African Descent, celebrated 
50 years of impact
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 17
 Overview
Culture	of	wellbeing
A global pandemic turned our world upside down in 2020 and changed 
the way we live and work. As a company that aspires to improve 
access to health and save and improve lives, we knew that to be truly 
successful, we had to begin with the health, wellbeing and safety of our 
employees. In 2020, we placed a special emphasis on mental health to 
help employees cope with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and 
we’re incredibly proud of their resilience and their ongoing efforts to 
help others in need. 
 For more information, visit our Wellbeing Report on our  
corporate website.
Nurturing wellbeing in a remote world
In response to the pandemic, we expanded our health and wellbeing 
programs to help employees adapt to this new normal. We also made 
significant investments in programs to support their unique needs 
including expanded backup child and elder care, subsidized remote 
tutoring services, a caregiving concierge and other tools to support 
working from home for parents and those caring for elderly parents. 
Other initiatives include:
COVID-19	global	town	hall	series
Our chief patient officer and executive vice president of population 
health & sustainability, Julie L. Gerberding, hosted 12 town halls to 
provide critical information about COVID-19 safety and wellbeing, 
resilience, ways of working during challenging times and COVID-19 
testing and vaccines.
Mental	health	resources 	
To address the effects of the pandemic, including stress and anxiety, 
we offered programs and workshops on mindfulness, resilience and 
sleep to support our employees’ emotional and mental wellbeing. 
The	future	of	work 	
The kind of agility we’ve learned over the last year will remain central 
to the way we all work together. We’ve recently introduced a flexible, 
hybrid work model — a combination of in-person collaboration and 
remote work — to help us be even more agile and productive as we 
deliver for patients. For more information, visit our hybrid work model  
news story.Employee	engagement	and	volunteering 	
We created a Medical Volunteer Program to enable colleagues 
with medical skills to volunteer throughout the pandemic with no 
interruption in pay, allowing them to help our community. While we 
paused our flagship skills-based volunteer program, Fellowship for 
Global Health, we continued to provide grant funding to our NGO 
partners to support program needs. We’ve recently relaunched the 
program in a virtual format for 2021. Through our Pro Bono Legal 
Grants program, we continued to support nonprofits with grant 
funding and pro bono legal support. 
 For more detailed information on our employee diversity, wellbeing, 
equity and inclusion efforts, please see pages 118–154.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
18
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Our	climate	action	goals 	
By 2025, we commit to achieve carbon neutrality across our 
operations by increasing our energy efficiency, applying sustainable 
building standards and continuing to transition away from the use 
of fossil fuels. 
By 2030, we commit to reduce our value chain emissions by 
30 percent, by continuing to engage with suppliers to reduce their 
emissions, promoting opportunities for suppliers to source renewable 
energy and using existing procurement and supply chain processes to 
drive additional strategies to decrease emissions (Scope 3).
We are accelerating our previous goal of sourcing 100 percent 
renewable energy for purchased electricity by 15 years, to 2025. We 
are also pursuing renewable energy projects to reduce our emissions, 
and have recently signed on to three new virtual power purchase 
agreements (VPPAs) that will address approximately 35 percent of 
the emissions from our electricity use.Environmental 
sustainability
A healthy planet is essential to human health  
and the sustainability of our business 
  “Our new climate action goals reflect our 
ongoing commitment to operating responsibly 
and will help us drive long-term sustainability 
for our business, society and for the patients 
and communities we serve.” 
— Robert M. Davis, Chief Executive Officer and President
Carbon neutrality 
across our operations by 2025  
(Scopes 1 & 2 GHG emissions)
100% renewable 
sources for our purchased electricity by 2025
30% reduction 
in value chain (Scope 3) emissions by 2030 Our company has a long history of environmental stewardship and 
compliance, and we realize that our strategy and efforts need to 
continuously improve for us to excel in an increasingly resource-
constrained world. Our environmental sustainability strategy has  
three areas of focus: 
• Driving efficiency in our operations
• Designing new products to minimize environmental impact
• Reducing any impacts in our upstream and downstream value chain.
We have recently adopted a set of new climate goals to address the 
rising expectations of our customers, investors, external stakeholders 
and employees regarding the environmental impact of our operations 
and supply chain. 
 See our complete ESG Goals. 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 19
 Overview
52% high-impact 
suppliers 
have GHG emission reduction targetsOur 2020 performance
This past year, we achieved all of our 2020 environmental goals and 
continued to make progress on longer-term targets to decrease energy 
demand, increase the amount of renewable energy we purchase and 
engage suppliers in efforts to reduce the environmental footprint 
outside of our operations.
Global	water	use	and	stewardship 	
Our global water strategy aims to achieve sustainable water 
management within our operations and our supply chain, as well as 
address water-related risk. Access to clean water is critical for human 
health, and water is a key input to our manufacturing operations. 
Our sites employ a variety of technologies and techniques, such as 
closed-loop cooling systems and reused reverse osmosis “reject water,” 
to reduce our water footprint and improve operational performance. 
In addition to reducing our water use by 14 percent from our 2015 
baseline, we achieved our goal of developing water conservation plans 
for sites in “high water risk” locations by 2020. Lastly, we are on track 
with our 2025 supplier goal, as 45 percent of high-impact suppliers 
have water use reduction targets. Our goal is at least 90 percent of 
these suppliers will have water use reduction targets by 2025.
Waste	management	and	diversion 	
We continuously strive to reduce the amount of operational waste 
we generate and to maximize the use of environmentally beneficial 
disposal methods such as recycling, composting and waste-to-energy.
57%
of hazardous waste 
beneficially reused  
in 2020 
80%
of non-hazardous waste 
beneficially reused in 
2020
1.1 million  
cubic meters 
of water recovered, 
reused or recycled at 
our facilities in 2020 
14% 
reduction 
in water use in 2020 
from 2015 levels 
(3.4 million m3 below 
2015 levels) 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
20
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Product	stewardship	and	green 	 
and	sustainable	science
Our product stewardship program focuses on identifying and 
either preventing or minimizing potential safety and environmental 
hazards throughout a product’s life cycle. We are also committed to 
understanding, managing and reducing the environmental impacts 
of our products and the materials associated with discovering and 
producing them. Our green and sustainable science program uses a 
“green-by-design” approach. By using more efficient and innovative 
processing methods and technologies, we are reducing the amount of 
energy, water and raw materials we use to make our products, thereby 
minimizing the amount of waste we generate and lowering  
our production costs. 
For more information on our product stewardship approach, see our 
Global Antimicrobial Action Plan, policy on the Responsible Disposal 
of Medicines and our approach to Pharmaceuticals in the Environment  
on our corporate website. Green chemistry leadership
We aspire to be the leader in the industry for the 
development of innovative, efficient, green and 
sustainable commercial syntheses of small-molecule, 
active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). Since 
1996, we’ve been recognized seven times by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency and the American 
Chemical Society’s (ACS) Green Chemistry Challenge 
Awards, the most in the industry, including awards in 
2020 and 2021.
2021 Peter J. Dunn Award 
for Green Chemistry and 
Engineering Impact in the 
Pharmaceutical Industry 
Recognized by ACS’s Green 
Chemistry Institute for developing 
a novel photo-flow process that 
creates a more efficient and 
environmentally safe reaction in 
the manufacturing process.
90% 
of new human health API 
processes met internal 
sustainability targets at 
launch by 2020
100% 
of our new human  
health products launched 
in 2020 reviewed for 
environmental impact 
and improvement in  
their packaging
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 21
 Overview
Simplifying	animal 	 
health	packaging
In 2020, we launched an initiative to standardize the packaging options 
for our medicines and vaccines, including identifying efficiencies in our 
supply chain, to help reduce the environmental impact of our products. 
We are working closely with colleagues in human health to share 
learnings and gain additional efficiencies across the company. Animal	conservation 	
We are a leading worldwide supplier of individual identification, 
real-time data access and advanced analytics for the conservation 
community. This enables us to produce actionable insights that inform 
recovery actions on a global scale, for species ranging from wild fish to 
penguins. Our product lines include the most advanced aquaculture 
automation and species-recognition products on the market. Together, 
these technologies ensure the future of natural resources by reducing 
the inadvertent loss of endangered species in commercial harvest, and 
support the global need for reliable and safe sources of protein. 
 For more information on our environmental impact and progress, 
please see pages 83–117 .
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
22
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Select awards and recognition
 Additional employee-related awards and recognition included in GRI 405 on page 145.
Newsweek 
America’s Most 
Responsible 
Companies 2020  
and 2021
Ranked #2 in the Health Care 
and Life Sciences sector for 
both years
The Human Rights 
Campaign Foundation 
Best Place to Work for 
LGBTQ Equality 2020 
Barron’s 
100 Most Sustainable 
Companies in the  
United States 2021
Fortune
World’s Most  
Admired Companies 
2020 and 2021 
Ranked #2 most  
admired company in the 
Pharmaceutical category for 
both years
Forbes
America’s Best 
Employers for New 
Graduates 2021
Energy Star
2021 Partner of the 
Year—Sustained 
Excellence Award
14th year in a row 
Disability:IN® 
2021 Best Places  
to Work for  
Disability Inclusion 
7th year in a row
Fast Company
Top 50 Most Innovative 
Companies 2020 
Ranked #1 in Biotech
Just Capital
2021 Just 100 List 
Ranked #1 in Biopharma  
and #30 overall
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 23
 Overview
1		As	of	December	31,	2020.
2		As	defined	by	the	Institute	for	Health	Metrics	and	Evaluation	(IHME)	using	GBD	2017	data;	excluding	
road	injury,	self-harm,	interpersonal	violence	and	neonatal	disorders.
3		This	number	was	slightly	higher	in	2019	than	in	years	past	due	to	our	expanded	collaboration	with	
MSD-Wellcome	Trust	Hilleman	Laboratories	and	our	acquisitions	of	Immune	Design	and	Peloton,	Tilos	
Therapeutics	and	Calporta	in	2019.
4		Data	for	Board	members	as	of	August	20,	2021.
5		Represents	investments	by	our	Office	of	Social	Business	Innovation.
6		Our	company	has	publicly	disclosed	EEO-1	information	since	1999.	Our	2020	data	is	available	on	our	 
ESG	resource	page	on	Merck.com.	Senior	management	roles	reflect	Band	700	at	Merck.
7		We	have	defined	“purchased	electricity”	as	electricity	sourced	from	external	suppliers	as	well	as	
renewable	electricity	that	was	generated	and	utilized	onsite	where	we	retained	the	renewable	attributes	
or	where	we	have	obtained	renewable	attributes	through	contract.
8		As	defined	by	the	World	Bank	Country	and	Lending	Groups.
9		Social	investments	include	Merck’s	philanthropic	partnerships,	programs	and	impact	investments.	
Underserved	populations	are	defined	as	those	that	face	health	disparities	due	to	disadvantages	related	
to	insurance	status,	social	determinants	of	health,	race,	ethnicity,	gender	identity/sexual	orientation,	
age	and/or	language	preference.
10		Includes	reach	for	all	products.	Countries	are	as	defined	by	the	World	Bank	Country	and	Lending	Groups.
11		Access	strategies,	solutions	and	partnerships	includes	patient	assistance	programs,	voluntary	license	
agreements,	and	partnerships.	Enable	more	people	is	defined	as	implemented	and	launched	in	market	
and	is	in	comparison	to	the	baseline	in	2020.	Access	is	defined	as	products	registered,	launched	and	
available	in	the	market.	Portfolio	of	products	include	Oncology,	Vaccines,	HIV	treatments,	and	COVID-19	
treatments	if	approved.
12		Senior	management	roles	reflect	Band	700.
13		The	Inclusion	Index	is	the	average	favorability	score	for	employees’	responses	to	three	items	in	the	
employee	pulse	survey	(manager	supports	inclusion,	sense	of	belonging,	leaders	value	perspective).
14		The	Employee	Engagement	Index	is	the	average	favorability	score	for	employees’	responses	to	items	in	
the	employee	pulse	survey	(employees	recommend	Merck).
15		Scope	1	emissions	are	direct	greenhouse	(GHG)	emissions	that	occur	from	sources	that	are	controlled	or	
owned	by	an	organization	(e.g.,	emissions	associated	with	fuel	combustion	in	boilers,	furnaces,	vehicles).	
Scope	2	emissions	are	indirect	GHG	emissions	associated	with	the	purchase	of	electricity,	steam,	heat	
or	cooling.	Scope	3	emissions	are	the	result	of	activities	from	assets	not	owned	or	controlled	by	the	
reporting	organization,	but	that	the	organization	indirectly	impacts	in	its	value	chain.
16		Favorable	response	indicates	the	percentage	of	respondents	who	gave	the	top	two	favorable	response	
options	on	a	five-point	agreement	scale.
17		Regulatory	requirements	differ	by	region.
18		As	of	July	2021.
19		Following	our	company’s	commitment	in	2017	to	expand	the	donation	of	Mectizan	to	support	the	
implementation	of	triple-therapy	for	the	elimination	of	LF	in	certain	settings,	the	Mectizan	Donation	
Program	expanded	in	2018	to	include	donations	for	LF	elimination	in	countries	not	endemic	for	 
river	blindness.
20		Direct	investment	includes	operational	support	and	grants.References
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
24
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI/SASB 
disclosures
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 25
 Overview
We are a global health care company that delivers innovative health 
solutions through our prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic 
therapies and animal health products. In the U.S. and Canada, we are 
known as Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, U.S.A. Elsewhere we are 
known as MSD.
Our operations are principally managed on a products basis and include 
two operating segments: 
• Pharmaceutical 
• Animal Health 
Operating segments
Our Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical 
and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist 
of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, 
for the treatment of human disorders. We sell these human health 
pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, 
hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers Organizational	profile 	
GRI 102-1 Organization	name	(Core)
GRI 102-2 Primary	brands,	products,	and	services	(Core)
GRI 102-3 Headquarters	location	(Core)
GRI 102-4 Location	of	operations	(Core)
GRI 102-5 Ownership	and	legal	form	(Core)
GRI 102-6 Markets	served	(Core)
SASB 000.BNumber	of	drugs	(1)	in	portfolio	and	(2)	in	research	
and	development	(Phases	1-3)
General 
disclosures
  See our GRI Index on page 171.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
26
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs), pharmacy benefit 
managers (PBMs) and other institutions. Human health vaccine 
products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, 
primarily administered at physician offices. We sell these human health 
vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and 
government entities.
The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures 
and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceutical and vaccine 
products, as well as health management solutions and services, for the 
prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major livestock and 
companion animal species. We also offer an extensive suite of digitally 
connected identification, traceability and monitoring products. The 
primary customers for our animal health products are veterinarians, 
distributors and animal producers.
 A list of our pharmaceutical products can be found on pages 2-6  
of our 2020 Form 10-K.
Locations
Our corporate headquarters are located in Kenilworth, New Jersey, 
U.S.A. We previously announced that we intend to consolidate our 
New Jersey campuses into a single corporate headquarters location in 
Rahway, New Jersey, by the end of 2023. We also maintain operational 
or divisional headquarters in Madison, New Jersey and Upper 
Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. 
Our principal U.S. research facilities are located in Rahway and 
Kenilworth, New Jersey; West Point, Pennsylvania; Boston, 
Massachusetts; South San Francisco, California; and Elkhorn, 
Nebraska (Animal Health). Principal research facilities outside the 
U.S. are located in the United Kingdom, Switzerland and China. Our 
manufacturing operations are headquartered in Whitehouse Station, 
New Jersey. 
The production facilities for our human health products include nine 
locations in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. Outside the U.S., through 
subsidiaries, we own or have an interest in manufacturing plants 
or other properties in Japan, Singapore, South Africa, and other 
countries in Western Europe, Central and South America, and Asia.  
A number of properties transferred to Organon in the spinoff .Our operations outside the U.S. are conducted primarily through 
subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the U.S. as a 
percentage of total company sales were 56 percent in both 2020  
and 2019 and were 57 percent in 2018.
The principal market for trading of our common stock is the New York 
Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol MRK. As of January 31, 
2021, there were approximately 104,900 shareholders of record of  
the company’s common stock.
You can find a full list of our products, as well as our pipeline, on our 
corporate website. 
 For more information, also see our 2020 Form 10-K.
$13.6 billion
in R&D expenditures
74,000 
employees
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 27
 Overview
GRI 102-7 Scale	of	the	organization	(Core)
GRI 102-8 Information	on	employees	and	other	workers	(Core)As of December 31, 2020, the company had approximately 74,000 
employees worldwide, with approximately 27,000 employed in the  
U.S., including Puerto Rico, and approximately 26,000 third-party 
contractors globally. Approximately 73,000 of the company’s 
employees are full-time employees. Women and individuals with 
ethnically diverse backgrounds comprised approximately 50 percent 
and 31 percent of the workforce in the U.S., respectively. As of  
August 20, 2021, women comprised 46 percent of the members  
of the Board of Directors. 
 For more information on our diversity, equity and inclusion figures, 
please see GRI 405 on page 145.
Employees 	 
by	region
U.S.  
26,826 | 36%
Latin America
5,469 | 7.3%Europe (Western)  
20,995 | 28.1% Canada  
668 | 0.9%Japan  
3,266 | 4.4%
Asia-Pacific  
6,730 | 9.0%China
7,273 | 9.8%
Eastern Europe,  
Middle East and Africa  
3,357 | 4.5%Number	of	  
employeesWorldwide  
percentage
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
28
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 102-9 Supply	chain	(Core)
Our company is committed to the highest ethical standards to help 
maximize the long-term sustainability of our business and of the 
communities in which we operate. We strive to conduct business with 
third parties which share our commitment to high ethical standards 
and who operate in a responsible and ethical manner. The term “third 
party” is broadly interpreted to include any individual or entity that 
provides any type of goods or services in support of our sourcing 
initiatives. We expect all third parties with whom we engage to comply 
with all applicable regulations, as well as share in our commitment to 
the principles outlined in our Business Partner Code of Conduct. 
We manufacture, package and distribute products to more than  
140 markets around the world. We have established business 
relationships with over 40,000 suppliers. Our network comprises 
approximately 1,700 direct suppliers (including external manufacturing 
providers), 1,800 capital expenditure suppliers, 32,000 indirect 
suppliers and 4,700 research providers. Our direct suppliers provide 
us with goods such as packaging, components and ingredients. Capital 
expenditure suppliers provide goods and services such as engineering 
and construction. Our indirect suppliers include those that provide 
services such as logistics, travel and meetings, facility management 
and marketing. Our research providers include lab supplies and other 
research related services. 
Our approach to sustainable sourcing
We have a sourcing management process in which environmental 
sustainability, social responsibility and economic inclusion and supplier 
diversity (EI&SD) principles are integrated in each stage. Throughout 
the supplier life cycle, our company establishes expectations, assesses 
risk, supports supplier development and manages performance. 
Our Global Supplier Management Group (GSMG) is responsible 
for driving our Sustainable Sourcing program and maintaining the 
associated standards and processes by which suppliers are identified, 
qualified and managed. Our Sustainable Sourcing program has the 
following key elements: 
• Integration into our Global Sourcing & Procurement Strategy  
and processes • A cross-functional team that oversees program development, 
processes and guidelines to encourage best practices, prevent 
violations of supply chain standards and limit risk
• Established sustainability requirements that are communicated  
to our suppliers and included in supplier selection
• Review, tracking and communication of supplier sustainability 
programs 
• Collaboration as we educate and learn from our supply chain,  
peer companies and best-in-class organizations
Third-Party Risk Management team
To help manage and address potential areas of risk associated with 
third party business relationships, our company has an established 
Third-Party Risk Management program and committee chaired by the 
senior vice president for Global Procurement. The team establishes, 
implements and monitors environmentally, socially responsible and 
ethical sourcing practices to ensure that performance is aligned with 
our mission. The cross-functional team includes leaders from our 
business areas as well as functional areas that monitor risk, including: 
Compliance, Global Safety and the Environment, Information 
Technology Risk Management & Security, Business Development,  
and ESG Strategy & Engagement. Representatives from each  
function meet regularly to discuss, assess and manage issues on  
a risk-driven basis. 
Supplier selection and setting expectations
We select suppliers that share our commitment to our values and 
principles. We expect appropriate standards of conduct and respect 
for human rights from our suppliers, contractors, vendors and external 
partners to be consistent with our own. We use our Business Partner 
Code of Conduct to communicate our expectations for Human Rights, 
Labor & Employment, Health, Safety & Environment and Ethical 
Business Practices. Our Business Partner Code of Conduct, along with 
our company’s Supplier Performance Expectations, are communicated 
to existing and potential third parties. They are included in requests 
for information, proposals and quotes, as well as in our purchase order 
terms and conditions. We make it available in 26 languages.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 29
 Overview
Our Code Of Conduct adheres to and references the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) Principles for Responsible Supply 
Chain Management (the Principles). PSCI is a group of almost 50 
pharmaceutical and health care companies which promotes sustainable 
sourcing and better business conditions across the industry, and the 
Principles set the standard for human rights, ethics, labor, health  
and safety, environment and related management systems. In 2020, 
the Principles were updated to include a specific reference to human 
rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, an 
enhanced ethics section and new clauses on resource efficiency and 
sustainable sourcing.
Supplier certification and material review
In 2020, GSMG initiated a program to certify our suppliers’ social and 
environmental sustainability program capabilities. We request select 
suppliers provide sustainability certifications and assurance, which are  
evaluated to determine if the supplier can be certified as a member of  
our GREEN Supplier Program. Travel and Meetings (including Fleet),  
Integrated Logistics and Paper-based Packaging Categories are 
currently included in this program which: 
• Encourages supplier engagement 
• Shares best practices and improves sustainability practices 
• Tracks supplier sustainability goals 
• Generates a list of GREEN Suppliers and proposed  
sustainability projects 
• Monitors progress utilizing a key performance indicator (KPI)  
on the GSMG Scorecard Additionally, we initiated and participated in a collaborative research 
project with PSCI to identify risks associated with our suppliers 
including prioritizing materials that are considered sensitive. PSCI has 
identified materials commonly used within our industry that warrant 
further examination. 
These include: 
• Rubber
• Corn
• Palm oil
• Aluminum
• Shellac• Glass
• Sugar 
• Talc
• Fish oil
• Castor seed/oil • Soy
• Cellulose
• Ethanol
• Carnaúba wax 
 
We recognize that potential risks may also exist beyond our Tier 2 
suppliers and plan to participate in efforts (in collaboration with PSCI) 
to ensure that the materials we use are sourced responsibly. 
We are incorporating findings from the PSCI joint project into our 
internal risk assessment and mitigation approaches. We have also been 
mapping our supply chain to identify which of our suppliers operate 
in countries that are known to present significant risks. We use this 
information to help us decide the appropriate level of due diligence for 
our ingredients.
We also initiated the collection of supplier packaging data. Based on 
2020 data received (as of March 2021), our packaging ranges from 
having no post-consumer recycled content or certifications to 100 
percent. We plan to continue to enhance our packaging data collection 
for future reporting. 
Supplier due diligence assessments
We have a defined risk-management process, and our supply base is 
measured against the process criteria. Using a risk-based approach, 
supplier assessments and audits are conducted based on multiple 
factors (e.g., risk profile, engagement and activity type, geography). The 
assessments and audits evaluate a supplier’s ability to meet both industry 
and our own standards for quality, safety and ethical business practices. 
Results are reviewed with senior management across the company.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
30
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Examples of our due diligence include:
• Anti-bribery and corruption 
• Conflict minerals
• Denied-party screening 
• Ethics and compliance 
• Financial solvency  • Information security  
and cybersecurity
• Intellectual property 
• Labor and human rights
• Privacy (data protection)
• Supply-chain security
Where assessments and audits identify deficiencies or opportunities 
for improvement, we monitor suppliers to ensure that our concerns 
are addressed in a responsible and compliant manner. As part of our 
oversight and monitoring, we have established mechanisms to report, 
track and monitor supplier plans to address nonconformance and help 
drive continued improvement. Additional review(s) are performed for 
external manufacturing suppliers and suppliers that manage personal 
and private information. 
External manufacturers of our products
Prospective external manufacturers of active pharmaceutical 
ingredients and finished products are screened for environmental, 
health and safety (EHS) compliance in addition to quality, supply and 
technical competence requirements. The EHS screening includes a 
survey covering such topics as regulatory compliance, fatalities and 
major incidents.
Based on the screening results and activities undertaken by the 
supplier, certain external manufacturers are subject to a more detailed 
onsite assessment conducted by a multidisciplinary team, which may 
include our company’s Quality, Global Safety and the Environment, 
Global Technical Operations and GSMG representatives.
The external manufacturers we contract with are periodically 
reassessed using a risk-based approach; higher-risk external 
manufacturers are subject to more frequent onsite assessments. 
We expect that observations made during the audit process will be 
remediated by our external manufacturers, and we monitor and track 
corrective actions through completion.Protecting the privacy of personal information
Some of our suppliers, such as contract research organizations, market 
research agencies, information technology systems developers and 
other suppliers, process personal information in connection with their 
performance of services for our company. We require these suppliers 
to provide appropriate privacy protection for personal information 
that they handle in accordance with our privacy policies and applicable 
privacy laws, regulations and guidelines.
Protecting against cyberattacks and assuring 
business continuity
We recognize that cybersecurity events at suppliers pose an increased 
risk to our business continuity. In 2020, our company continued 
our supplier cyber resiliency risk management program to conduct 
assessments and review risks and remediation actions with key 
suppliers. We also expanded the program by introducing joint cyber-
resiliency tabletop exercises and rolling out cybersecurity contract 
language with selected key suppliers. The program fosters mutually 
beneficial working relationships with our top suppliers. We continue 
to enhance the program to improve operational excellence and 
continuous monitoring capabilities.
Collaboration is key 
We are an active member of PSCI. The member companies share  
a vision of better social, health, safety and environmental outcomes  
in the communities where we buy. Collectively, PSCI members  
share knowledge and expertise across our industry to drive complex, 
global change more effectively with our suppliers than any one 
organization alone. 
Our company currently holds a position on the Board, co-leads 
the Environment Team and is the board liaison for the Capability 
Committee. We are also an active member of the Human Rights and 
Labor team. In 2020, PSCI focused on updating the Principles and 
developing supplier training, tools and maturity models. 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 31
 Overview
Training
We understand the importance of training and, in 2020, developed and 
provided numerous training events assigned to employees, industry 
peers and suppliers. Most of our internal classes are assigned through 
our centralized learning system. In addition to providing training 
through our internal systems, we also work with PSCI to develop and 
provide training to our suppliers and peers. 
Some examples of our training and associated tools include: 
• Procurement Onboarding
• Third-Party Risk Management
• Business Partner Code of Conduct Training (Edition 2) 
• Mitigating Modern Slavery Risks in Our Supply Chain
• 10 Environmental Sustainability Guides
• 14 Responsible Sourcing Guides for Key Materials
• Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials Training
• Sustainable Packaging
• Revised PSCI Principles 
Communication to our stakeholders
We have an internal webpage maintained by GSMG that provides 
information on our Sustainable Sourcing programs to stakeholders. 
Examples of materials provided include: our program summary, 
supplier data, benchmarking, supplier programs, training materials  
and newsletters. We also have quarterly newsletters in addition to 
monthly updates that are provided via email.
 Additional details regarding our supplier-focused ESG programs can 
be found in GRI 204 on page 73, GRI 308 on page 116, and GRI 414 on 
page 157 .
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
32
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 102-10Organizational	changes	during	 
the	reporting	period	(Core)	 	
In February 2020, we announced our intention to spinoff products 
from our women’s health, biosimilars and established brands 
businesses into a new, independent, publicly traded company named 
Organon & Co. (Organon) through a distribution of Organon’s publicly 
traded stock to our shareholders. We completed the spinoff on June 2, 
2021. The financial and other information contained in this report 
relating to the year ended December 31, 2020, and earlier periods, 
includes the information related to the Organon businesses that were 
spun-off in 2021.Supply chain KPIs 2017 2018 2019 2020
Employees trained on mitigating modern slavery risks in our supply chain1,2N/A 451 4 8
Employees trained on updated Business Partner Code of Conduct (Edition II)1195 148 190 183
Employees trained on Third-Party Risk Management1,3N/A N/A N/A 185
Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaires performed4466 595 706 547
Supplier LHR audits conducted532 104 39 47
Supplier LHR audit observations addressed/remediated6100% 100% 99% 95%
Supplier personnel trained in ESG7N/A N/A N/A 1,492
GREEN supplier spend8,9N/A N/A N/A $247M
1 Primary	target:	Procurement	and	business	development	staff	with	responsibility	for	supplier	management
2 Training	on	our	modern	slavery	risks	in	our	supply	chain	began	in	2018	with	applicable	employees,	and	is	provided	to	all	new	relevant	hires	going	forward.
3 Formal	training	was	created	and	rolled	out	in	late	2020;	prior	to	2020,	informal	training	was	provided	on	an	as	needed	basis
4 Undertaken	as	part	of	initial	and	ongoing	supplier	due	diligence,	managed	and	overseen	by	GSMG;	Scope	includes	labor	and	human	rights,	environment	and	safety,	and	ethical	business	practices
5 Announced	on-site	audits,	independently	performed	by	third-party	audit	firms;	primary	focus	on	direct	material	(Tier	1)	supplier	facilities	located	in	China,	India,	Mexico	and	Indonesia
6 Monitoring	closure	of	past	audit	observations	revealed	by	supplier	LHR	audits;	not	all	CAPAs	are	due	within	the	same	year
7 Formal	Training	created	in	2020	and	conducted	as	joint	effort	with	PSCI;	includes	Sustainable	Packaging,	PSCI	Principles,	Forced	Labor	and	Modern	Slavery
8 2020	metric	represents	2019	spend	data	for	the	2020	list	of	GREEN	Suppliers
9 Our	GREEN	supplier	program	officially	launched	in	2020.Assessing the effectiveness of our program
During 2020, we reviewed the following key performance indicators (KPIs) to help us assess the effectiveness of our efforts in our business and 
supply chain. We use these measures to monitor our performance and identify opportunities to help improve our programs. 
We also had a Healthcare Services segment that provided services and 
solutions focused on engagement, health analytics and clinical services 
to improve the value of care delivered to patients. We divested the 
remaining businesses in this segment in the first quarter of 2020.
 For more information on the spinoff, please visit our 2020 Form 
10-K, pages 1, 28, 40–42, 47–48, 57–60, 83 and 97, as well as related 
information on our corporate website.
 For more information on the divestiture of our Healthcare Services 
segment, please visit our 2020 Form 10-K, pages 1, 47, 61, 83, 107, 127, 
132 and 133.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 33
 Overview
GRI 102-11 Precautionary	principle	(Core)	
We take a precautionary approach when evaluating potential human 
exposures and environmental impacts resulting from our 
manufacturing processes. Conservative assumptions are made when 
data is limited, and safety factors are added to address uncertainty and 
variability in our assessments.
This type of approach is particularly relevant to our work in toxicology, 
industrial hygiene, biosafety and environmental protection.
 For more information on our approach to the precautionary principle, 
please refer to the following sections:
GRI 301 – Materials (page 83)
GRI 302 – Energy (page 88)
GRI 303 – Water (page 93 )
GRI 305 – Emissions (page 100)
GRI 306 – Effluents and Waste (page 106)
GRI 307 – Environmental Compliance (page 110)
GRI 403 – Occupational Safety (page 128)
GRI 102-12 External	initiatives	(Core)	
Though not an exhaustive list, below are examples of third-party 
principles and initiatives we have endorsed. Additionally, there are 
multi-party collaborations mentioned throughout this report, that  
are mentioned in relation to specific disclosures.
Water
We have endorsed the UN CEO Water Mandate, a public commitment 
to adopt and implement a comprehensive approach to water 
management, and we have aligned our water program with its 
principles. CEO Water Mandate endorsers have a responsibility 
to make water-resource management a priority and to work with 
governments, UN agencies, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), local communities and other interested parties to address global  
water challenges. We are working to identify partnerships that  
will help us advance our water stewardship priorities in the areas in 
which we operate. These projects also support the goals of SDG 15, 
which strives to “protect, restore and promote sustainable use of 
terrestrial ecosystems. ”
Human rights
Our company believes in the dignity of every human being and 
recognizes the international human rights principles embodied in 
the United Nations Global Compact and as defined in the United 
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its subsequent 
changes, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural 
Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Guidelines 
for Multinational Enterprises and the core labor standards set out by 
the International Labor Organization.
Supply chain
Our human rights practices are informed and guided by the PSCI’s 
Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible Supply Chain 
Management which set the standard for ethics, labor, health, safety 
and the environment for our industry.
Diversity
In 2009, we signed onto the United Nations Women’s Empowerment 
Principles. These principles reflect seven areas of focus designed to 
promote gender equality in business.
Kenneth C. Frazier, our Executive Chairman and former CEO, is now 
the chair of the OneTen Initiative, a coalition of leading executives 
who are coming together to upskill, hire and advance one million Black 
individuals in America over the next 10 years into family-sustaining jobs 
with opportunities for advancement. You can learn more about this 
initiative in GRI 405 on page 152.
Clinical research
In accordance with our public policy position statement, all 
investigational studies in human subjects are conducted in a manner 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
34
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
consistent with laws, regulations and guidelines for the protection of 
human subjects, including those issued by the International Council for 
Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP).
Animal health
We encourage proactive vaccination of animals to prevent disease and 
support the responsible use of antibiotics to treat and improve the 
health of animals. As a global animal health company, we support the 
Antibiotic Commitment established by the animal health industry.
Other initiatives 
In addition to the ESG reporting frameworks we report against  
(see pages 171–192), we also support the following external initiatives 
and commitments (among others), the details of which can be found 
throughout this report:• American Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Green Chemistry Initiative
• AMR Alliance Common Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework
• Billion Dollar Roundtable (BDR)
• Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
• International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations 
(IFPMA) Code of Practice
• Paradigm for Parity
• PhRMA Code on Interactions with Health Care Professionals
• Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi)
GRI 102-13 Membership	associations	(Core)	 	 
 
 
Our company is a member of numerous industry and trade groups.  
We work with these groups because they represent the pharmaceutical 
industry and business community in debates led by governments and  
other stakeholders, and because they help the industry reach consensus  
on policy issues.
Our top three trade associations in 2020:
• Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA)
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce
• Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) 
When our trade associations actively lobby on our core business issues, we 
seek to align their positions with our own. There are times, however, when 
we may not share the views of our peers or associations  —  both on issues 
that are central to our business and on those that, while important, are 
not directly material to our mission. With representatives on the boards 
and committees of industry groups and trade associations, we can voice 
questions or concerns we may have about policy or related activities. We 
may even recuse ourselves from related trade association or industry group 
activities when appropriate.
The Corporate Secretary sends an annual report to our company’s  
Board of Directors on trade association dues greater than $25,000 that  
were spent in the previous year on lobbying and political activity in the  
U.S. The Governance Committee of the Board of Directors has ongoing 
oversight of the company’s membership in trade associations and  
grassroots lobbying activities.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 35
 Overview
Trade Association Dues Used for Lobbying 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Animal Health Institute $32,726 $39,271 $70,687 $70,687 $56,550 
Bio New Jersey* $1,980 $4,860 $5,100 $10,140 $8,490 
Biotechnology Industry Organization $238,208 $231,679 $237,468 $274,964 $320,471 
California Life Sciences Association $13,680 $11,300 $49,980 $49,980 $47,760 
Council of the Americas* $1,250 $1,250 $1,250 $1,250 $1,500 
Chemistry Council of New Jersey $6,000 $8,775 $8,951 — —
Healthcare Institute of New Jersey $126,004 $122,100 $114,404 $113,645 $116,983 
Healthcare Leadership Council $90,000 $90,000 $90,000 $90,000 $90,000 
Life Sciences Pennsylvania* $3,960 $4,500 $4,520 $6,360 $4,858 
Massachusetts Biotechnology Council $9,669 $9,884 $10,164 $10,461 $11,055 
National Association for Biomedical Research $20,000 $20,000 $20,000 $20,000 $20,000 
National Association of Manufacturers $70,845 $61,792 $56,443 $59,083 $62,132 
New Jersey Chamber of Commerce $4,001 $4,142 $4,245 $4,374 $3,003 
New Jersey Civil Justice Institute $30,000 $30,000 $30,000 $30,000 $30,000 
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America $6,418,500 $11,630,454 $12,548,663 $11,743,028 $18,730,134 
Texas Healthcare & Bioscience Institute* $3,500 $5,500 $5,500 $5,500 $5,500 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce $345,000 $206,250 $237,500 $297,000 $130,000 
U.S. Council for International Business — — $3,445 $3,728 $7,456 
*Includes	associations	where	dues	are	>	$25,000.	Because	the	U.S.	tax	law	that	requires	this	reporting	does	not	apply	outside	the	U.S.,	trade	associations	that	are	not	subject	to	this	do	not	provide	
breakouts	of	lobbying	expenditures	from	membership	dues.Below is a list of industry and trade groups of which we are a member, and our trade association dues (those greater than $25,000) that are used for  
lobbying purposes:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
36
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Through our top three trade associations (listed above), we engaged on 
the following policy issues in 2020.
In the U.S., the top issues at the federal level for which our company 
lobbied were:
• Medicare Part B
• Medicare Part D
• International Reference Pricing
• Medicaid Average Manufacturer Price (AMP) cap
In the U.S., our company lobbied at the state level to address these  
key issues:
• Drug price transparency and price controls
• Market-based solutions for access to innovative pharmaceutical, 
vaccine and biologic products
• Maintaining a strong business environment for U.S. operations 
• Support for a strong immunization infrastructure
• Removal of legislative and regulatory restrictions for access to animal 
health products 
• Support the regulatory/legislative environment for veterinary 
medicine and technological development
In Europe, the top issues for which the company advocacy focused on:
• Addressing the European Commission’s review of incentives for 
biopharmaceutical products
• Fostering frameworks for sound pricing and procurement regimes  
in and across diverse European Union (EU) member state economies
• Supporting government vaccination, hepatitis and  
diabetes programs
• Advancing the dialogue for sustainable models to fund future  
cancer care
• Improving standards for health technology assessment and  
health literacy
• Ensuring science-based policies for biological medicines• Legislative and regulatory restrictions for access to animal  
health products
 »EU-UK trade and cooperation agreement
 »New Veterinary Regulation (NVR) implementation
 »Pharmaceuticals in the Environment
 »Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR)
 »One Health strategy
 »New technological developments
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 37
 Overview
Strategy
GRI 102-14 CEO	Letter	(Core)
Please see the letter from our President and CEO on page  3.
Ethics	&	Integrity
GRI 102-16Values,	principles,	standards,	and	norms	 
of	behavior	(Core)
GRI 102-17 Mechanisms	for	advice	and	concerns	about	ethics
SASB 510a.2Code	of	ethics	governing	interactions	with	health	
care	professionals
Our company’s Office of Ethics is responsible for ensuring that 
employees are aware of and trained on the Code of Conduct and 
Corporate Policies addressing ethics and compliance.
Our Code of Conduct, Our Values and Standards, is available in  
23 languages and applies to all employees worldwide. Our Values  
and Standards set clear ethical expectations and principles that  
allow us to be a company worthy of trust. The Code of Conduct 
represents the very core of our character as a company and helps us 
to protect the reputation we have earned. In addition to publishing a 
PDF version of our Code of Conduct’s external website, our company 
offers a Code of Conduct (internal) website that allows employees 
to download a PDF of the Code of Conduct, search for a policy, ask a 
question or raise a concern through MSDethics.com. It also offers tools 
and resources to help employees put our values into practice with every 
decision and every action. 
Corporate policies are reviewed every three years by business content 
owners and updated as needed. 
We abide by strict ethical standards in our own operations, and we 
insist on equivalent standards from our suppliers. Our Business 
Partner Code of Conduct is based on our company’s Code of Conduct, 
as well as on the PSCI Pharmaceutical Industry Principles and the  
Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact.The Office of Ethics also serves as a channel for the receipt, triaging 
and redress of ethics and compliance-related concerns. Depending on 
the concern type, the concerns will be investigated by the Office of 
Ethics, the Office of Global Investigations, Legal or Human Resources. 
Employees are encouraged to raise their concerns to their 
management, Human Resources, Compliance, Legal or the Office 
of Ethics. The Office of Ethics maintains a global ethics program, 
Speak Up, and the MSDethics.com reporting tool. The reporting 
tool is operated by an independent third party and is available 24/7. 
MSDethics.com allows employees and suppliers to raise concerns or 
ask questions confidentially and anonymously (where permitted by 
law) in their preferred language via phone or internet. 
In alignment with our priority to protect and enhance our company’s 
reputation through safe, ethical and compliant behaviors, and to foster 
a strong culture of compliance and ethics touchpoints in markets 
outside of the U.S., the three Regional Ethics Officers continue to 
manage a network of site-based volunteer Ethics Ambassadors outside 
of the U.S. The Ethics Ambassadors are trained to answer employee 
questions about the company’s reporting and investigation process 
and actively support the Speak Up Program. 
Ethics and integrity are the bedrock of all that we do. And, the 
company strives to maintain a transparent work environment. 
Accordingly, all employees are required to report concerns that are 
potentially inconsistent with the company’s Code of Conduct and 
policies. Our company maintains multiple reporting channels (i.e., 
management, Human Resources, Compliance, Legal, Speak Up tool at 
MSDethics.com) and communicates regularly to employees to ensure 
they understand how they can report potential misconduct. Employees 
are encouraged, prepared and empowered to raise concerns. 
We maintain a fulsome process for escalation and investigation of 
potential compliance-related concerns. The process is designed to 
ensure that we promptly investigate all reports of behavior that 
could violate our company’s policies, values or standards and take 
appropriate remedial action in response to such concerns as needed.
If we substantiate allegations of ethical misconduct, we take 
appropriate disciplinary actions to ensure that those who were 
responsible are held accountable.
Disciplinary actions can include, but are not limited to, dismissal from 
the company, issuance of final written warning letters or financial 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
38
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
penalties. In addition, we take appropriate steps to address any needed 
improvements in organizational and process controls.
Retaliation against employees who report such concerns is a violation 
of corporate policy and is not tolerated. 
We also maintain a policy that will give our company the discretion to 
recoup incentive payments made to employees in certain instances. 
This policy will apply when a senior leader engages in misconduct or 
fails to reasonably supervise an employee who engages in misconduct 
that results in a material policy violation relating to the research, 
development, manufacturing, sales or marketing of company products 
where the policy violation causes significant financial or reputational 
harm to the company.
The Office of Ethics and the Office of Global Investigations are 
responsible for oversight of the global processes for managing 
investigations into potential ethics and compliance concerns to 
ensure consistent and timely resolution of potential concerns and 
implementation of remediation actions.Code of ethics governing interactions  
with health care professionals
Continuing Medical Education (CME) and Continuing 
Education (CE) programs
Our CME/CE Grant Program supports independent educational 
programs whose purpose is to maintain, develop or enhance the 
knowledge, skills and/or professional performance that health care 
professionals rely on to provide services for patients, the public 
or the profession. We are committed to ensuring that our CME/
CE programs are educational and not promotional. Through these 
programs, we seek to increase physicians’ knowledge about the latest 
scientific data and health care topics, thereby improving patient care.
The environment in which we sponsor or support educational 
programs worldwide is complex, governed by a multitude of laws, 
regulations and medical or industry association guidelines. We are 
committed to honoring all applicable programs required for CME/CE 
in the countries in which we operate.
CME programs that we support or sponsor are governed by an 
internal policy that is aligned with the appropriate standards and 
regulations to which the programs are held including, among other 
things, independence and financial disclosure.
U.S. Medical Forums
We deliver balanced medical and scientific information to health care 
professionals within the U.S. through our company’s Medical Forums, 
which are conducted by external speakers. Speakers are selected 
on the basis of their expertise in the relevant subject matter. By 
attending one of our Medical Forums, health care professionals learn 
about therapeutic and health care industry topics. The goal of these 
interactions is to help attendees achieve improved medical results for 
their patients.
With our strict standards for conducting these Medical Forums, 
we comply with the PhRMA Code on Interactions with Health Care 
Professionals as well as with U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) regulations, which ensure that any product presentation is 
appropriately balanced with information regarding both the product’s 
potential benefits and its risks, and is consistent with approved 
product labeling.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 39
 Overview
Governance
GRI 102-18 Governance	structure	of	the	organization	(Core)
GRI 102-19 Delegation	of	responsibility
GRI 102-20 High-level	accountability	for	sustainability	topics
GRI 102-21 Access	to	the	board
GRI 102-22 Composition	of	the	board	and	its	committees
GRI 102-23 Chair	of	the	highest	governance	body
The primary mission of our Board is to represent and protect the 
interests of our company’s shareholders. The Board generally meets at 
least six times per year to provide strategic direction and to review our 
progress on a wide variety of measures.
In overseeing the affairs of the company, including our governance, 
the Board has established four committees, each of which is composed 
solely of independent directors: 
• Audit
• Compensation & Management Development Committee
• Governance 
• Research
All of our standing committees are governed by Board-approved 
charters, which are available on our corporate website. Information on 
our company’s board committees can be found in our company’s 2021 
Proxy Statement (pages 18–20).
Robert M. Davis, our company’s chief executive officer and president, 
currently serves on our Board. Our former chief executive officer, 
Kenneth C. Frazier, is currently the executive chairman of the Board.
ESG management structure
We are committed to governance policies and practices that serve 
the interests of the company and its shareholders. Our reporting and 
governance structure is an integral part of this commitment.Board
The Board, as a whole and through its committees, has responsibility 
for overseeing the company’s ESG matters. For example, the full Board 
has oversight for human capital management, and the Compensation 
& Management Development Committee assists the Board in that 
regard. This includes overseeing the company’s programs, policies 
and practices related to its management of human capital resources, 
including talent management, culture, diversity and inclusion. The 
Governance Committee oversees public policy matters, environmental, 
health and safety practices, and also reviews social, political and 
economic trends affecting our business. Additional information on the 
committees’ responsibilities can be found in our company’s 2021 Proxy 
Statement (pages 18-20) or in their committee charters available on 
our corporate website.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
40
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Public Policy and Responsibility Council (PPRC)
The PPRC is a high-level forum for strategic input and guidance on our 
social business investments, ESG approach and public policy issues 
and positions. The diverse, cross-functional membership of the PPRC 
provides vision, leadership and cross-divisional input and alignment on 
policy and responsibility strategy, issues and initiatives. 
Specifically, the company’s PPRC enables policy and ESG issue 
identification and debate; makes recommendations to our CEO's 
Executive Team, as necessary; informs policy and ESG strategy; 
and reviews performance and reporting against defined objectives. Overall, the PPRC promotes further integration of ESG and policy 
considerations into our business activities.
ESG Strategy Management Team
This team, comprising functional experts throughout our company, 
helps drive our long-term ESG strategy. This includes identifying 
risks and opportunities and advising on long-term goals and 
metrics. Members of this team include senior leaders from each of 
our four focus areas (Access to Health, Employees, Environmental 
Sustainability, and Ethics & Values), as well as leaders in our Office  
of the Secretary, Investor Relations, and Corporate Strategy,  
among others.
Corporate Governance 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Independent directors on the Board 12 12 11 12 12
Percent of Board members who are independent 92% 92% 92% 92% 92%
Separate chairman of the Board and CEO No No No No No
Lead independent director Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Independent audit committee Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Independent compensation and benefits committee Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Independent governance committee Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Women on the Board 23% 23% 33% 46% 46%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups  
on the Board23% 15% 17% 23% 31%
Number of Board meetings scheduled or held18 8 6 6 7
Shareholder support of the advisory vote on 
executive compensation295% 95% 93% 92% 91%
Note:	Except	as	otherwise	noted,	all	figures	above	are	derived	from	our	proxy	statement	filed	the	following	year.
1	Per	internal	records.	Meetings	were	held	in	person	and/or	via	telephone.
2	Percentages	derived	from	Current	Reports	on	Form	8-K	filed	with	the	U.S.	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	after	the	applicable	annual	meeting	of	shareholders.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 41
 Overview
GRI 102-24 Board	nomination	and	selection	processes
GRI 102-25 Board	conflicts	of	interest
GRI 102-26 Board	and	executive	roles
 For more information on our Board of Directors, please see our  
2021 Proxy Statement. For an overview of our Board nomination process, 
see pages 24–25. 
 Information on our Board conflict of interest policy can be found in 
our Policies of the Board, in Section 13 (pages 8–9). 
 For information on our Board’s and senior executives’ roles in the 
development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value 
or mission statements, strategies and policies, see pages 12–14 of our 
2021 Proxy Statement.
GRI 102-27 Board	ESG	knowledge
GRI 102-29Board	identification	of	ESG	impacts,	risks,	 
and	opportunities
GRI 102-30 Board	review	of	ESG	risk	management	processes
GRI 102-31 Frequency	of	board	review
GRI 102-32Highest	committee	or	position	that	formally	reviews	
and	approves	the	organization’s	ESG	report
Our entire Board has responsibility for overseeing the company’s ESG 
matters, and does so as a whole and through its individual Committees, 
depending on the topic. The full Board has oversight for human capital 
management, for example, and the Compensation & Management 
Development Committee assists the Board in that regard. This includes 
overseeing the company’s programs, policies and practices related to 
its management of human capital resources, including talent 
management, culture, diversity and inclusion. 
Chaired by our company’s independent lead director, the Governance 
Committee is responsible for advising the Board and management on 
policies and practices that pertain to our responsibilities as a global 
corporate citizen, our special obligations as a health care company ESG Strategy & Engagement
Our ESG Strategy & Engagement team (formerly the Office of 
Corporate Responsibility) is responsible for raising the visibility  
of ESG issues and activities across the company. This includes  
fostering connections across business units and functional areas to  
integrate our approach to ESG into business policies, strategies and  
practices, including the enterprise risk management (ERM) process.  
Its aim is to bring the views of external stakeholders into our  
decision-making processes.
The ESG team also coordinates the development, implementation 
and communication of our global approach and, with strategic 
guidance from the ESG Strategy Management Team, Public Policy 
and Responsibility Council (PPRC), Executive Team and the Board's 
Governance Committee, and is responsible for publishing our annual 
ESG Progress Report. 
ESG Report Working Group
The members of the ESG Report Working Group, a diverse selection of 
employees from all divisions of the company, serve as subject matter 
experts in their respective areas and work closely with the ESG Strategy 
& Engagement team to help set goals and develop metrics that 
support and measure our overall ESG strategy and objectives. Individual 
members have been chosen to be active advocates for ESG within their 
respective departments, and coordinate the content writing for this 
report with subject-matter experts in their functional areas.
Contacting the Board
The Board welcomes input from shareholders and other interested 
parties and has established a process to receive these communications. 
Shareholders and interested parties may communicate directly with 
the Board, the independent lead director, the non-management or 
independent directors as a group, or other members of the Board by 
writing to the following address: 
Board of Directors 
Merck & Co., Inc.  
2000 Galloping Hill Road, K1-4157  
Kenilworth, NJ 07033 U.S.A. 
For more information on our approach to governance, please visit 
GRI 102-29 to 102-32 on pages 42–43.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
42
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
whose products and services affect health and quality of life around 
the world, and our commitment to the highest standards of ethics and 
integrity in all of our dealings. 
The Governance Committee’s role includes monitoring and evaluating 
some of the company’s ESG programs and activities, including public 
policy matters, environmental, health, and safety practices and supply 
chain manufacturing strategy and governance and third-party  
sourcing programs. 
In addition, the Governance Committee is responsible for considering 
and making recommendations to the full Board regarding the Board’s 
policies and practices. The company monitors and evaluates trends in 
corporate governance and regularly asks for and receives input from 
shareholders and other stakeholders. The Governance Committee 
reviews these trends against our current practices and structures and 
considers input received from shareholders and other stakeholders as 
part of this review.
Information on the Governance Committee’s responsibilities can be 
found on page 19 of our company’s 2021 Proxy Statement, and in its 
committee charter , available on our corporate website.
In addition to the Governance Committee and the Compensation & 
Management Development Committee, two other Board committees 
oversee certain ESG matters as well. For example, the Research 
Committee monitors compliance with the highest standards of 
scientific integrity in the conduct of the company’s research and 
development, and the Audit Committee monitors compliance with the 
company’s policies on ethical business practices.
  For information on our board structure, please see GRI 102-19 and 
GRI 102-20 on pages 40–42.
  Information on the Board’s role in assessing risk can be found on 
page 14 of our 2021 Proxy Statement.GRI 102-33Process	for	communicating	critical	concerns	 
to	the	board
The Board welcomes input from shareholders and other interested 
parties and has established a process to receive these communications. 
Shareholders and interested parties may communicate directly with 
the Board, the independent Lead Director, the non-management or 
independent Directors as a group or other members of the Board by 
writing to the following address: 
Board of Directors 
Merck & Co., Inc.  
2000 Galloping Hill Road, K1-4157  
Kenilworth, NJ 07033 U.S.A.
 For information on communicating to the Board, please visit our  
2021 Proxy Statement (page 29).
GRI 102-35Remuneration	policies	for	the	board	 
and	senior	executives
GRI 102-36 Process	for	determining	remuneration
GRI 102-37 Remuneration	shareholder	resolutions
 A full discussion of our approach to remuneration for Named  
Executive Officers (NEOs) can be found on pages 43–58 of our  
2021 Proxy Statement. To learn more about the non-binding advisory  
vote to approve the compensation of our named executive officers,  
please see our Form 8-K from May 27, 2021. This proposal received  
91.21 percent approval vote at our annual meeting on May 25, 2021. 
 For information on compensation for the Board, please visit pages 
40–41 of our 2021 Proxy Statement.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 43
 Overview
GRI 102-38 CEO/employee	pay	ratio
The total annual compensation of our median employee in 2020 was 
$109,482. This figure was comprised of base salary, annual incentive, 
savings plan company match and change in pension value. The total 
annual compensation for our CEO was $22,088,429. 
A reasonable estimation of the ratio of our CEO’s compensation to our 
median employee’s compensation was 202 to 1. 
Under the SEC rules, companies may identify the median total annual 
compensation using a wide variety of methods, including reasonable 
assumptions and estimations. It is therefore difficult to compare this 
ratio to those of other companies.
 For more information on our methodology for determining this ratio, 
please see page 62 of our  2021 Proxy Statement.
Stakeholder	engagement
GRI 102-40A	list	of	stakeholder	groups	engaged	by	the	
organization	(Core)
GRI 102-41 Union	representation	(Core)
GRI 102-42Basis	for	identifying	and	selecting	stakeholders	 
with	whom	to	engage	(Core)
GRI 102-43 Approach	to	stakeholder	engagement	(Core)
We engage with a diverse group of stakeholders to more fully 
understand their needs and expectations, and to gain insights that can 
inform our efforts to improve access to health care and foster progress 
toward solutions that benefit society and support our business.Many of these engagements with partners can be found throughout 
this report. The groups of stakeholders with which we regularly  
engage include:
Patients and caregivers
We embrace the opportunity to engage with individual patients, 
patient advocacy organizations and caregivers to better understand 
their health care journeys, expected outcomes and decision-making 
considerations. 
 For more information on our work with patient groups, please see 
our Patient & Caregiver Resources page on our corporate website.
Health care professionals
We are committed to providing appropriate and balanced information 
to physicians and other health care providers about our medicines, 
vaccines and ongoing research.
 For more information on our work with health care professionals, 
please see GRI 206 on page 78. 
 For our disclosures on payments to health care professionals, visit 
the Transparency Disclosures page on our corporate website.
Payers
We work with payers worldwide to inform their understanding of the 
relationship between the prices of our products and the true value they 
deliver to patients and health care systems. 
 For more information on our work with payers, please visit our  
2020 Form 10-K, pages 7–12, as well as our Pricing and Access  
Position Statement.
Governments, multilateral organizations and regulators
We work with policy makers, legislators, multilateral organizations 
and governments worldwide to ensure that policy and regulatory 
environments globally, nationally and locally foster patient access to 
medicines and vaccines, and that they are conducive to ethical business 
practices, science and innovation.
 There is more information on these engagements throughout this 
report, as well as in our 2020 Form 10-K, pages 7-12.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
44
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Shareholders
We strive to create shareholder value by identifying opportunities to 
meet customer needs and by managing our business responsibly to 
achieve superior financial results over the long term. Throughout the 
year, we regularly engage with our investors on both financial and  
ESG performance.
Local communities
We work toward developing culturally appropriate mechanisms to 
engage and build relationships with our local community stakeholders 
and NGOs. We conduct this engagement predominantly through our 
philanthropic efforts, which can be found on the Philanthropy page on 
our corporate website. 
Environmental stakeholders
We work to reduce the environmental effects of our operations and 
products and to promote sustainable environmental practices within 
the company, among our partners and throughout our supply chain. 
 To learn more, please see GRI 301 to 308 on pages 83–117 in  
this report.
Employees
We strive to foster a positive and inclusive working environment for our 
employees by providing resources to improve their health and that of 
their families, opportunities to further their professional development 
and ways to get more involved in the communities where they live. 
 To learn more, please see GRI 401 to 405 on pages 118–154 
of this report, as well as our Wellbeing Report available on our  
corporate website.As part of our mission to maintain a satisfying and productive work 
environment, we routinely survey all employees to learn about their 
perspectives on the business and on how we are responding to the 
needs of our global workforce. The Voice Survey, our company’s 
all-employee opinion survey, is our flagship employee feedback 
mechanism, and is conducted on a biannual basis, although it was  
not sent out in 2020. We will be conducting the Voice Survey in 2021,  
and will include the results in our next ESG report.
Suppliers and business partners
We strive to engage a diverse supplier base and to encourage 
responsible approaches on the part of suppliers regarding labor, 
employment, human rights, health and safety, ethics, diversity  
and protection of the environment.
 To learn more, please see GRI 102-9 on page 29 , GRI 308  
on page 116, GRI 412 on page 154, and GRI 414 on page 157 .
Trade and industry associations
We engage with stakeholders through membership in numerous 
organizations. Within these groups, we aim to inform relevant debates 
in ways that are constructive and that ultimately foster improved 
patient access to medicines and vaccines globally.
 To learn more, please see GRI 102-13 on page 35. 
Union membership 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Employees represented by an independent trade union or covered 
by a collective bargaining agreement (approximate)29% 29% 30% 30% 30%
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 45
 Overview
Reporting	practice 	
GRI 102-45 Entities	included	in	financial	statements	(Core)
All of our company’s global operations, including those of subsidiaries, 
are in scope for this report unless stated otherwise. This report 
includes activities at all facilities, owned and leased, over which we have 
operational control, unless otherwise noted.
The basis for reporting on other matters specific to the operations of 
our business    can be found in our 2020 Form 10-K, which is filed with 
the SEC.There have been no significant changes from previous reporting 
periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods 
applied in this report. Data regarding employees who are part of 
underrepresented ethnic groups are provided for the U.S. only.
As mentioned in GRI 102-10 on page 33, in February 2020, we 
announced our intention to spinoff products from our women’s  
health, biosimilars and established brands businesses into a new, 
independent, publicly traded company named Organon & Co. This 
spinoff was completed on June 2, 2021, but does not affect our 
reporting on 2020 initiatives and performance data. The financial  
and other data contained in this report for 2020 does not reflect  
the spinoff of Organon.
For more information on this transaction, please see our press 
release on Merck.com.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
46
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 102-46 Defining	report	content	and	topic	boundaries	(Core)
GRI 102-47 Material	aspects	included	(Core)
An ESG materiality assessment helps us focus on those issues that 
matter most to our stakeholders, our company and the world. Our 
assessment provides insight into future trends and potential business 
risks and opportunities. 
Access  
to health
Environmental  
sustainability
Employees
Ethics  
& values
•  Employee health and safety  
Pages 128–139
• Employee engagement  
  and diversity  
Pages 28, 44–45, 145–154•  Access to medicine  
Pages 53–72
•  Product quality and safety  
Pages 29–32, 53–72, 76–77, 
161–168,	Clinical	trials	page
•  Public health risks  
Pages 38, 128–139
•  Climate change  
Pages 52, 88–92, 100–106•  Business ethics  
Pages 38–39, 76–81, 167–168, 
Code	of	Conduct	&	Compliance
•  Ethics in R&D  
Pages 38–39, 53–72, 161–167, 
Clinical	trials	page
•  Data security and privacy  
Pages 168–170
•  Governance structures  
and mechanisms  
Pages 38, 40–45, 129–132, 
153–154, 170Our priority ESG topics
In our recently updated assessment, the following topics emerged as the most critical for our company to address:
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 47
 Overview
Our approach 
To conduct the assessment, we partnered with Datamaran, a materiality and ESG risk-management software company that uses a comprehensive 
and data-driven process for evaluating the relevance of ESG issues and trends to our business and our stakeholders. We leveraged Datamaran’s 
business intelligence platform, which applies SASB Accounting Metrics and is GRI-certified software, to evaluate the external landscape. The 
following 32 topics, specific to the pharmaceutical sector, were found to be of the highest importance to our external stakeholders.
The external sources drawn from included: 
• Corporate reports (financial, sustainability/ESG and integrated annual reports)
• Global regulations and initiatives (mandatory laws and soft norms)
• Social media (Twitter)
• Online news sources
To supplement the data-driven analysis, we also engaged with internal stakeholders through an online survey, and interviews with external 
stakeholders, to validate and prioritize the issues that have the greatest impact to our business and our stakeholders.• Access to health care and medicine
• Air quality
• Business ethics
• Business model resilience
• Climate change risks 
• Community relations
• Competitive behavior
• Critical incident risk management
• Customer welfare
• Data security and customer privacy
• Ecological impacts• Employee engagement and diversity
• Employee health and safety
• Energy management
• Ethics in R&D
• GHG emissions
• Governance 
• Human rights
• Inclusion and affordability
• Innovation and technology
• Labor practices
• Regulation• Product design and lifecycle 
• Product quality and safety
• Public health risks
• Responsible and smart transportation
• Selling practices and product labeling
• Supply chain management
• Transparency
• Waste and hazardous materials management
• Water and wastewater management
• Workforce management
ESG material  
topics  
identified
Analysis 
and 
external 
validation
Sector  
landscape  
review
External 
score
Internal  
stakeholder  
survey
Internal  
scoreESG materiality assessment process
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
48
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
We have included the management approach disclosures for our top 
10 priority topics in this report, as well as these disclosures for many of 
the 32 material topics above that are specific to our industry. 
We have already used this assessment to identify a new set of ESG 
goals (found on page 9), and its findings will help to set the direction of 
our work in the years ahead.
GRI 102-48 Restatements	(Core)
GRI 102-49 Reporting	changes	(Core)			
Any restatements of information are included in the footnotes beneath 
the specific performance data tables.
The spinoff of Organon & Co. was completed on June 2, 2021, and 
does not impact the content of this report. All entities that were part 
of Merck & Co., Inc. on December 31, 2020, and are included in our 
financial statements, are represented in this report. 
GRI 102-50 Reporting	period	(Core)	
GRI 102-51 Date	of	most	recent	report	(Core)	
GRI 102-52 Reporting	cycle	(Core)		
GRI 102-53 Report	contact	(Core)		 	
Except as otherwise noted, we report on our ESG initiatives and 
progress annually. These disclosures cover the prior calendar year, from 
January 1 to December 31, 2020. To ensure that readers have the most 
up-to-date information, some of the narrative in the report is about 
decisions and initiatives that took place in the first half of 2021. Our last 
report was published in October 2020.We welcome your feedback on this ESG Progress Report, as well as any 
other comments or questions you may have. You may contact us at the 
address below or email us at corporate_responsibility@merck.com.
ESG Strategy & Engagement  
2000 Galloping Hill Road, K1-3181  
Kenilworth, N.J. 07033 USA  
908-740-4000
GRI 102-54Claims	of	reporting	in	accordance	with	the	GRI	
Standards	(Core)
GRI 102-55 GRI	content	index	(Core)		
GRI 102-54Claims	of	reporting	in	accordance	with	the	GRI	
Standards	(Core)
GRI 102-55 GRI	content	index	(Core)		
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards at 
the Core option. An index for all of our GRI disclosures, as well as those 
for the other frameworks we report on, can be found on pages 171–189 .
GRI 102-56 External	assurance	(Core)
ERM conducted an independent third-party review of our 2020 
greenhouse gas and water inventories, and provided limited assurance 
for the data that we submit to CDP and for inclusion in this report. 
To view ERM’s limited assurance letter for our environmental data, 
please visit the ESG Resources page on our corporate website. 
We did not obtain external verification for this ESG Progress Report in 
its entirety.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 49
 Overview
Economic
 See our GRI index on page 171.
Economic	performance
GRI 201-1 Direct	economic	value	generated	and	distributed
We believe that addressing the environmental, social and governance 
aspects of our business is critical to our company’s success, and can 
provide us with new opportunities to create shared value and to 
demonstrate our purpose to stakeholders. At the most basic level, 
our principal economic contribution to society is made through 
the discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of our 
products, which directly improve and maintain the health of individuals 
and communities around the world, helping them to lead more 
productive lives.
 For more information on our overall tax strategy, please see  
GRI 207 on page 81.
 For additional information about our business and economic 
performance, please see our 2020 Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2020, on our corporate website.Impact investing
Impact investing is one of our innovative approaches to advancing 
sustainable global health solutions in line with our company’s overall 
objectives. Through impact investing, we are able to deploy financial 
resources in ways that may generate not only improved access to 
health care for underserved populations, but also financial returns 
and commercial opportunities — all while growing a sustainable global 
health ecosystem and attracting additional capital and partners.
Impact investing is led by our Office of Social Business Innovation with 
guidance from the Impact Investing Committee. Established in 2019, 
the Impact Investing Committee is a cross-functional team of senior 
company leaders that reviews and approves new investments in line 
with established policies and guidelines and monitors the financial 
and social returns of the impact portfolio. We are also members of 
the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN), through which we can 
contribute to and benefit from the growing body of expertise in the 
impact investing ecosystem.
 For more information, please visit our Impact Investing page  
on Merck.com.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
50
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Financial information 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Sales $39.8B $40.1B $42.3B $46.8B $48.0B
Research and development expenses1$10.3B $10.3B $9.8B $9.9B $13.6B 
Number of employees (approximate) 68,000 69,000 69,000 71,000 74,000
Number of stockholders of record2128,600 121,125 115,320 109,500 104,900
Annual cash dividend declared per share $1.85 $1.89 $1.99 $2.26 $2.48
Global tax expense as reported on income statement $0.72B $4.1B $2.5B $1.7B $1.7B
Note:	Financial	information	is	in	accordance	with	Generally	Accepted	Accounting	Principles	in	the	U.S.	(GAAP).
1	Includes	restructuring	costs,	acquisition-related	charges	and	upfront	payments	related	to	collaborations	and	licensing	arrangements.
2	Approximate	number	as	of	January	31	of	the	year	immediately	following	the	reported	year.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 51
 Overview
GRI 201-2Financial	implications	and	other	risks	and	
opportunities	due	to	climate	change
We believe that climate change could present risks to our business. 
Some of the potential impacts of climate change to our business include 
increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, 
physical risks to the company’s facilities, water limitations and 
disruptions to our supply chain. These potential risks are integrated 
into the company’s business planning, including investment in reducing 
energy, water use and greenhouse gas emissions. 
We have made it a priority to reduce our demand for energy and have 
established internal policies and practices focused on reducing energy 
use at our sites and minimizing greenhouse gas (GHG) generation 
throughout the company. By taking these steps, we are not only 
minimizing GHG emissions but also reducing operating costs and 
mitigating the business impacts expected to be associated with future 
climate change requirements.1		As	defined	by	the	Ellen	MacArthur	Foundation,	“a	circular	economy	is	based	on	the	
principles	of	designing	out	waste	and	pollution,	keeping	products	and	materials	in	use,	  
and	regenerating	natural	systems”.In 2020, the company’s Energy Capital fund became the Sustainability 
Capital Fund, expanding the scope of the funds to water and waste 
projects. It is used exclusively for sustainability projects at company 
sites around the world that bring long-term value to the company and 
focus on carbon footprint, water use and solid waste reduction. The 
fund allocates up to $12 million per year which allows us to adopt low 
carbon technology, better position the company to respond to climate 
change and supports a more circular economy.1
Since 2015, our sites have completed more than 95 projects through 
the Sustainability Capital Fund. This has saved over $9 million per year, 
averaging a payback of about three and a half years and avoiding the 
production of 50,000 metric tons of carbon per year.
 For more information, please see GRI 305 on page 100 and  
the ESG Resources page on our corporate website for a link to our 
response to the CDP Climate Change questionnaire.
95 projects
 $9 million 
saved annuallySustainability Capital Fund projects:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
52
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 201-3 Benefit	plan	coverage
Our compensation and benefits programs are rooted in maintaining 
our competitive position in the market by providing a comprehensive 
and valuable package of rewards to attract and retain a talented and 
diverse workforce while building a robust and supportive culture.
Our compensation programs, which include competitive base pay, 
short-term incentives and long-term incentives, target different 
aspects of individual and company performance and are monitored  
to ensure that they are competitive with those of other companies—
and appropriate for the markets in which we compete for talent.
Our health and wellbeing, retirement and insurance programs draw 
from best practices to ensure quality, competitive value, protection 
from significant financial hardship and access to tools and resources  
to support employees and their family members in all life stages.
In the U.S., the percentage of pay contributed by employees into  
our U.S. Savings Plan is approximately 8.6 percent. Approximately  
97 percent of U.S.-based employees participate in this retirement  
plan, and 100 percent of U.S.-based employees participate in the 
pension plan.
 For more information, please see GRI 401-2 on pages 123–127 .Indirect	economic	impacts
GRI 203 Management	approach
SASB 240a.1Access	to	health	care	for	priority	diseases	 
and	in	priority	countries
SASB 240a.2Products	on	WHO’s	List	of	Prequalified	 
Medicinal	Products
SASB 240b.2Percentage	change	in:	(1)	average	list	price	and	
(2)	average	net	price	across	U.S.	product	portfolio	
compared	to	previous	year
SASB 240b.3Percentage	change	in:	(1)	list	price	and	(2)	net	price	  
of	product	with	largest	increase	compared	to	
previous	year
For more than a century, we have been inventing medicines and 
vaccines for many of the world’s most challenging diseases.
We are committed to addressing unmet medical needs through 
innovative research and development (R&D). R&D expenses in 
2020 reflected higher clinical development spending and increased 
investment in discovery research and early drug development.
Our success is largely dependent on our continued ability to attract 
and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management 
personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical research and 
development, governmental regulation and commercialization.
We have strategically located discovery centers in regions with active 
biomedical research communities in California and Massachusetts, 
as well as principal sites outside of the U.S., including the United 
Kingdom, Switzerland and China. These centers allow us to recruit 
talented local scientists and facilitate collaboration with local academic 
institutions and companies. These discovery sites complement and 
connect with our strong research and development capabilities and 
expertise based at our New Jersey and Pennsylvania sites. 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 53
 Overview
While the primary responsibility for managing a health system and 
providing its citizens with access to health resides with government, 
pharmaceutical companies have a substantial role to play in working 
with governments to enable access to health. 
As we pursue our core mission of inventing, developing and delivering 
medicines and vaccines, we work to support governments in their 
efforts to protect the right to health. 
We do this in several ways, including:
• Monitoring and reporting on the safety of our products
• Providing health care workers and consumers with important 
information on the benefits and side effects of our products
• Safeguarding the health, safety and privacy of patients involved in 
our clinical trials
In addition, we are also working to improve access to new medicines 
and vaccines, address deep-rooted and multifaceted barriers to access 
and advocate for health care capacity strengthening in ways that are 
aligned with our business mission and core capabilities. We often 
pursue this work through partnerships.
Our enterprise-wide approach to access is guided by our Access  
to Health Guiding Principles, and is responsive to internationally 
recognized standards and priorities. This reflects our approach to embedding access across our organization. Our Access to  
Health Guiding Principles span the areas of discovery and  
invention, availability, affordability and strengthening systems  
and addressing inequity.
Systematic evaluation to inform product  
access strategies 
Embedded within our research and development process, we 
systematically evaluate our candidates to identify the potential to 
address significant public health burden and unmet medical needs 
in under-resourced health care settings. This evaluation process 
informs our product access strategies with the goal of making our 
medicines and vaccines available to as many people as possible through 
sustainable solutions.
To facilitate access to our products in under-resourced health care 
settings, we undertake a systematic evaluation at the onset of 
Phase 2 clinical studies to determine a candidate’s potential to 
meet unmet medical needs for patients in low- and middle-income 
countries (LMICs). Our approach involves evaluating the level of 
disease burden that exists, the availability of alternative medications 
and the appropriateness of our candidates to improve public health.  
Additionally, understanding where health system infrastructure 
and funding mechanisms are in place is an important component 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
54
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
of enabling safe and effective usage, which ultimately facilitates 
meaningful patient access. Our R&D governance committee is 
accountable for the process, and all recommendations are reviewed by 
our Public Policy and Responsibility Council (PPRC), an internal cross-
divisional forum of senior leaders. 
When a drug or vaccine candidate with the potential to address 
significant public health burden in under-resourced health care  
settings is identified, the access planning process includes engaging 
all parts of our enterprise as well as external stakeholders to identify 
the most optimal solution. All candidates undergo this systematic 
evaluation at Phase 2. For candidates with significant potential in 
under-resourced settings, access planning may start in the pre-clinical 
phase. Once a product is approved, we commit to registering the 
product and making it available in all countries where clinical trials have 
been conducted, including LMICs. Products continue to be evaluated 
for their potential throughout their lifecycle to account for changes in 
the external environment.
Research and development 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Research and development expenses (in billions)1$10.3 $10.3 $9.8 $9.9 $13.6
Employees involved in research activities 12,300 12,700 14,500 15,600 16,750
New products approved23 4 2 2 1
Products in the pipeline and under regulatory review 39 26 24 36 39
Top 20 global burdens of diseases addressed by our products  
and pipeline3,488% 88% 88% 100% 88%
Established significant external licenses and collaborations 57 55 64 78 123
Filed U.S. patent applications 195 190 127 103 114
1  R&D	expenses	include	a	2020	$2.7B	charge	related	to	the	acquisition	of	VelosBio	and	a	2017	$2.4B	charge	related	to	the	formation	of	a	collaboration	with	AstraZeneca.
2   Candidates	in	our	company’s	research	pipeline	or	under	regulatory	review	as	reported	in	the	company’s	Form	10-K,	filed	on	February	25,	2021.	Approval	of	new	products	only.	 
This	does	not	include	approvals	for	supplemental	indications.	When	candidates	attain	regulatory	approval,	they	are	removed	from	this	pipeline	view.
3 As	defined	by	the	Institute	for	Health	Metrics	and	Evaluation	(IHME)	using	GBD	2019	data;	excluding	road	injuries,	age-related	hearing	loss	and	neonatal	disorders.
4 This	number	is	slightly	lower	in	2020	than	in	2019	(but	in	line	with	numbers	for	previous	years)	due	to	changes	in	the	top	20	GBD	list.Sometimes the evaluation of a candidate reveals barriers to access  
in an under-resourced setting.  In these situations, the evaluation 
process can inform our approach to strengthening health systems  
and improving health equity.
We recognize that addressing the complex and multi-faceted 
challenges to accessing health care in LMICs requires the collaboration 
of multiple stakeholders.  We actively seek partnerships to achieve 
solutions that enable access.
Examples of access strategies our company has initiated include 
the granting of voluntary licenses that can contribute to timely and 
affordable access, our agreement with the Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation to advance HIV research in sub-Saharan Africa through 
clinical trials and partnering with external stakeholders to support 
health system strengthening.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 55
 Overview
Global burden of disease
As defined by the GBD Visualization tools developed by the Institute 
for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME), the diseases that we address 
rank high on the list of worldwide causes of death. Our research into 
vaccines and infectious diseases addresses major burdens of disease 
that are prevalent in all countries, and our preventive treatments could 
have the greatest impact in the developing world, where health care 
infrastructure is weak or nonexistent.
Considering our pipeline, the list of products we currently market and 
external collaborations, we estimate that our company is seeking to 
address 88 percent of the top 20 global burdens of disease as defined 
by the IHME, excluding road injuries, age-related hearing loss and 
neonatal disorders.
Compliance
Ensuring compliance with applicable laws and requirements in 
all business areas is critical. As such, the stated objective of the 
Compliance Committee Charter within our research laboratories is 
to ensure ongoing compliance through appropriate management 
structure, processes and training.
In order to manage compliance, the Compliance Committee is 
composed of members of the Research Leadership Team. As a result, 
compliance efforts encompass the entire division and go beyond simply 
addressing the conduct of clinical trials.
The Compliance Committee also promotes ethical science and  
provides guidance to our employees within the research organization 
on our company’s standards and corporate policies, as well as 
necessary education related to specific requirements applicable to  
the research community.
Clinical research
Clinical trials can offer hope for many people and may help researchers 
find better treatments for others in the future. Our Global Clinical 
Development department is responsible for conducting clinical trials 
worldwide to evaluate the safety and efficacy of our products.
In accordance with our public policy position statement, all 
investigational studies in human subjects are conducted in a manner 
consistent with laws, regulations and guidelines for the protection  of human subjects, including those issued by the International Council  
for Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP). However, 
individual country regulations and guidelines should remain the 
primary determinant of specific requirements for the conduct of 
medical research.
We have a commitment, where appropriate, to the study of diverse 
patient populations, including underrepresented groups, women and 
children, in our clinical trials in all regions of the world. As a result, 
we strive to obtain information from diverse populations, ensuring 
a thorough evaluation of the safety and efficacy of our medicines 
and vaccines. These efforts allow us to seek regulatory approvals 
throughout the world and thereby offer our medicines globally to 
patients who need them.
Consistent with ICH-GCP requirements, as part of the informed 
consent process, clinical trial patients are made aware of the 
compensation and/or treatment available to them in the event of a 
trial-related injury. They are also informed of the person(s) to contact 
in the event of a trial-related injury. Our company maintains policies 
and procedures that address the costs of treatment of trial subjects 
in the event of trial-related injuries in accordance with applicable 
regulatory requirement(s).
Genetic research
The rapid development of new technologies that interrogate variability 
in human DNA and RNA, combined with powerful computing hardware 
and software, has made it practical to investigate genetic and genomic 
determinants for risk of human disease or predictors of human 
response to drugs.
Our company conducts genetic and genomic research within our own 
clinical trials and in collaboration with external organizations that have 
collected human genetic and genomic samples and health data.
We collect genetic and genomic samples in our clinical trials, primarily 
to understand how genetic and genomic variation impacts patient 
response to medicines. This enables us to communicate information to 
regulatory authorities and prescribers that will improve the use of our 
medicines, and understand how genetics contribute to the underlying 
disease, which has the potential to identify new drug targets.
We obtain subject consent for use of genetic and genomic samples 
in accordance with ethical principles of human-subjects research, 
which include respect for persons/autonomy, beneficence and justice, 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
56
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
consistent with the Declaration of Helsinki, U.S. FDA requirements, 
ICH E6 Good Clinical Practices guidelines and the 1997 UNESCO 
Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights. When 
collaborating with external organizations, we ensure that consent has 
been obtained by individuals who have contributed DNA or RNA and/or 
health-related data to the organization via these same standards.
Regenerative medicine
Together with the scientific community, we believe that research using 
stem cells has the potential to help identify medicines, therapies and 
vaccines to treat, cure or prevent diseases.
Many of the most advanced scientific technologies in regenerative 
medicine involve animal or human embryonic stem cells.
For more than a decade, we have been applying advances made in 
stem-cell technologies to support our research and development. 
The capacity of stem cells to differentiate into specific cell types 
underscores their versatility and utility, from early target validation and 
identification, to screening and testing of potential new therapeutics, 
disease-modeling and pre-clinical proof of concept.
We conduct research using stem cells in full accordance with all 
applicable laws and regulations, and our own internal research policies. 
Our research policy involving stem cells adheres to the U.S. National  
Academy of Sciences guidelines as well as those of the International  
Society for Stem Cell Research.Our company’s Regenerative Medicine Oversight Committee, which 
comprises both internal and external experts, oversees company-
sponsored research involving stem cells, including highly targeted 
research using human embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent 
stem cells. The committee is responsible for ensuring that all projects 
involving stem cells adhere to our policies.
 For more information on our company’s R&D, please visit the 
Research & Products page on our corporate website.
Maintaining a global supply network 
Through our manufacturing and supply division, we strive to maintain 
an uninterrupted, unconstrained, highest-quality global supply 
network. Our supply chain is designed to ensure we operate a lean 
and efficient network that produces our medicines and vaccines to the 
highest quality, safety and environmental standards, in full compliance 
with regulations and Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs) based 
on U.S. and international requirements and industry best practices. 
Through digitally enabled “end-to-end supply planning,” we are 
digitizing our shop floors and conducting efficient and balanced 
planning decisions to maximize business results and deliver medicines 
and vaccines to customers, which include hospitals, retail outlets and 
patients, when and where they need them. 
With both an environmental and socially conscious mindset, our 
facilities, along with our external contractors, suppliers and partners, 
make up an integrated, interdependent global manufacturing network. 
Goal: 
100%	of	logistics	partners	with	a	security 	
risk	assessment	completed	annually
Goal: 
95%	of	orders	shipped	on	time	and	in	full
Goal: 
75%	of	countries1	around	the	world	reached 	
annually	with	our	products
AchievedProgress: 
Exceeded target (78%)Progress: 
Exceeded target (98.3%)Progress: Access	to	health
1		As	defined	by	the	World	Bank	Country	and	Lending	Groups.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 57
 Overview
Solving affordability challenges through 
dedicated sustainable access solutions
We aspire to enable solutions and shape the ecosystem that delivers 
sustainable access to innovative medicines for patients. We collaborate 
with different stakeholders, including private, governmental, multi-
lateral and non-profit organizations, in the ecosystem to design and 
deliver solutions that address the access challenges at the payer, 
provider and patient levels. 
Our approach is predicated on the belief that broadening access 
requires sustained effort and is best achieved through solving the 
underlying challenges in the health care system that constrain access 
from care delivery to capacity and financing. We also believe that we 
exist within a wider eco-system, comprising of multiple stakeholders, 
each playing a unique and varied role. Therefore, key to our approach is 
a focus on solutions and collaboration.We have focused on making this approach systematic. We have 
established a framework which is available to all our markets for 
assessing, designing and delivering practical solutions that solve  
access and affordability challenges. We have established a dedicated 
internal unit to systematically accelerate innovation and capture 
learnings across emerging markets. Through this approach we have 
been able to accelerate the development of innovative access solutions 
across the globe.
We also recognize that the policy environment is critical to solving 
access and affordability challenges. Therefore, we collaborate with 
governments, industry associations, trade and economic forums, think 
tanks and academia to advocate for evidence-based policy solutions. 
For example, we are actively involved in the APEC Health Coalition that 
shares best practices and brings industry, governments and academia 
together to diagnose and solve pressing affordability challenges. 
Similarly, we are increasing our engagement in value-based health 
care discussions to solve access challenges more holistically across 
the health care system. This engagement includes representation on 
the Global Innovation Hub Expert Review Committee of the World 
Economic Forum’s Global Coalition on Value in Healthcare.
Our current portfolio of projects focused on dedicated sustainable 
access solutions spans across 40 countries. These projects are in 
various stages of development, from diagnosing the access challenges 
to delivering solutions in the market. 
Our market teams based in LMICs address affordability through 
multiple initiatives, in pursuit of innovative solutions that enable 
broadening of access to medicines in these countries. For example,  
in LMICs, one of the recurring access challenges is the potentially 
high out-of-pocket costs for critical illness treatments. Recognizing 
this issue, we collaborated with reinsurers and insurance companies 
in South Africa and Indonesia to enable them to develop affordable 
health insurance products for the population, including covering 
innovative cancer therapies. This provides much needed optionality for 
the population and drives greater health care inclusion. As the reach 
of this insurance product further expands, we expect to solve one 
major access hurdle and widen access to innovative cancer therapies 
for patients in a commercially sustainable way. The approach reinforces 
our commitment to being part of a wider ecosystem, collaborating with 
others with complementary capability to tackle these challenges.We expand access to our 
products through dedicated, 
market-based sustainable 
access solutions that expand the 
reach to at-need populations 
and patients—including 
those in LMICs—taking into 
consideration public health 
need, economic conditions and 
health care infrastructure.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
58
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Addressing barriers to health 
Through partnerships, investment and innovation, we apply our 
expertise and invest our human and financial resources to address 
systemic barriers to access to health where we believe our company 
can make the strongest contributions to health systems, communities 
and our patients around the world. We provide this support in 
several ways, including through philanthropic social investments, 
key initiatives and impact investing. To be most effective, where 
appropriate, we align our investments with country-led priorities and 
partner with governmental, multi-lateral and non-profit organizations.
Our investments are guided and approved by internal and external 
expert advisory bodies, including an internal advisory board for our 
company’s Foundation, an internal Impact Investing Council, and 
external expert advisory committees for the MECTIZAN Donation 
Program and Merck for Mothers.
We are committed to measuring the impact of our efforts on improving 
access and therefore provide support to evaluate the impact of many of 
our investments. In 2020, 10 percent of our investment in partnerships 
and programs to strengthen health care capacity and address barriers 
to access supported by our company’s Foundation was allocated to 
impact evaluation.
Vaccines 
Key accomplishments and milestones
The total number of doses of our vaccines that have been distributed 
has increased significantly since 2010 and our global reach has also 
increased dramatically: in 2020 approximately 74 percent of our 
vaccines were distributed outside the U.S., up from 28 percent in 2010.
More than 70 million doses of two of our vaccines—GARDASIL® 
[Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, and 18)  
Vaccine, Recombinant] and ROTATEQ® (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live,  
Oral, Pentavalent)—have been distributed in Gavi-eligible countries  
through 2019. This represents important progress toward ensuring 
that these vaccines reach people in low-income settings with a high 
burden of disease.
We made progress in our efforts to help address Ebola virus disease. In 
December 2019, ERVEBO® (Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live), our vaccine to help 
prevent this disease, was approved by the U.S. FDA and also approved in the Democratic Republic of Congo. As of April 2021, the vaccine has 
been approved in nine African countries. These approvals mark a historic 
moment for global public health and represent an unprecedented effort 
by a diverse set of partners from around the world.
On January 13, 2021, our company confirmed an agreement with 
UNICEF to establish the world’s first global Ebola vaccine stockpile 
with ERVEBO® (Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live). This agreement represents 
another landmark milestone in the fight against Ebola and is the result 
of breakthrough innovation and collaboration across Africa and the 
world. The global stockpile will offer a critical, rapid-response tool to 
help combat future outbreaks of this highly contagious, hemorrhagic 
illness that is endemic in parts of Central and West Africa. The 
stockpile inventory will be built over time and maintained by Merck. 
While licensed supply is starting to be manufactured and built, 
the investigational vaccine continues to be leveraged to support 
international outbreak response efforts, in close collaboration with  
the WHO. In the past three years, we have donated more than 
300,000 doses of the investigational V920 to response efforts.
Access pricing 
Our company works with governments, international health and 
development organizations, donor groups, NGOs and others to 
support countries’ population health aims and help improve sustainable 
vaccination programs.
We use tiered pricing for vaccines as an equitable way to achieve 
dual objectives: to expand access for people who can benefit from 
vaccination; and to ensure sufficient return on investment over 
time to support the complex and costly research, development and 
manufacturing capacity necessary to create and supply new vaccines 
and address post-licensure regulatory requirements.
We consider a variety of factors in arriving at a price in a given country, 
including the local burden of disease, the health economic value of the 
vaccine, the country’s ability to support vaccine delivery and achieve 
population health coverage, its level of economic development, its 
fiscal capacity for investments in health and actual health spending, as 
well as its mechanism and policies for procuring vaccines. In addition, 
we work with governments to address affordability challenges 
and increase system efficiencies to support the sustainability of 
immunization programs.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 59
 Overview
We also consider inequities in access within a country. Where  
regulations and infrastructure allow, reduced pricing has been offered  
to support government- or donor-funded coverage of lower-economic-
tier segments.
Our commitment to helping protect global health by improving the 
affordability, availability, accessibility and use of our vaccines around 
the world is fundamental to our business and overall mission. We offer 
GARDASIL, which helps to protect against HPV-related diseases, at an 
access price that is significantly less than the value-based price in other 
countries. The access price is exclusive to the public sectors of the 
countries eligible for support from Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
In 2015, we extended our current Gavi prices for GARDASIL through 
2025 to Gavi-graduated countries with a per-capita gross national 
income (GNI) not exceeding $3,200. This action greatly assists 
Gavi-transitioned countries by facilitating access to these vaccines in 
those countries, while also making sure they remain affordable and 
sustainable in the long term. In the short period of time since we made 
our price commitment to countries transitioning out of Gavi support, 
numerous countries have taken advantage of the offer to introduce or 
continue existing national HPV vaccination programs.
We also remain actively engaged with Gavi on policy efforts to improve 
access to vaccines in Gavi-transitioned countries. We believe that our 
pricing approach contributes to broader access to our vaccines while 
taking into account our need to continue investing in vaccine research, 
development and production.
Manufacturing and supply
In the last few years, countries around the world have enacted 
new or expanded vaccination programs. This has contributed to an 
unprecedented increase in global demand for vaccines.
We are committed to increasing our capacity and supply capability. Our 
commitment to invest in capital projects over five years has increased 
to $20 billion, with a significant portion dedicated to vaccines. In fact, 
in 2019, we supplied our highest ever quantity of vaccines globally. 
We continue to invest in manufacturing and end-to-end supply 
improvements in both capability and capacity to help ensure a sustainable, 
reliable supply of quality and affordable vaccines to serve global needs.
Our manufacturing division continuously works to improve manufacturing 
processes and reduce operating costs by increasing efficiency, minimizing 
procurement spending and improving supply performance.Maintaining product quality is paramount. To provide high-quality vaccines 
to people who need them, we manage our supply chain through policies 
and procedures designed to keep the distribution system secure.
We continue to explore potential strategic partnerships with other 
manufacturers to increase supply and promote greater access in  
local markets.
COVID-19 manufacturing agreements
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have entered into multiple 
agreements to support efforts to expand the manufacturing capacity 
and supply of COVID-19 medicines and vaccines. Under our agreement 
with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority 
(BARDA), a division of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Preparedness and Response (ASPR) within the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services (HHS), we will receive funding to adapt 
and make available a number of existing manufacturing facilities for the 
production of COVID-19 vaccines and medicines. 
Under separate agreements with Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,  
one of the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson, 
we will support the manufacturing and supply of Johnson & Johnson’s 
COVID-19 vaccine, using our facilities in the U.S. to produce drug 
substance, formulate and fill vials.
Registration and prequalification
We seek to ensure global access to our vaccines by obtaining and 
maintaining up-to-date product registrations around the globe. 
Additionally, we seek to obtain WHO prequalification so that our 
vaccines may be easily obtained and distributed to underserved 
populations across some of the world’s poorest countries. On 
November 12, 2019, we obtained WHO Prequalification for our vaccine 
ERVEBO to help prevent disease caused by Ebola Zaire virus in adults.
The table below summarizes the registration and WHO prequalification 
status of a select list of our vaccines.
In addition to having our medicines and vaccines approved by stringent 
regulatory authorities, when relevant to enhancing access in low- and 
middle-income countries, we also work to have certain medicines and 
vaccines prequalified through the WHO prequalification process.
WHO prequalification can facilitate product procurement by 
international procurement agencies. WHO’s prequalification program 
covers medicines for HIV, tuberculosis (TB), malaria, neglected 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
60
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
tropical diseases, influenza, reproductive health and diarrhea, in 
addition to vaccines. In the absence of reliable national medicine 
authorities that can certify health care products meet required quality, 
safety and efficacy standards, stringent regulatory authority and 
WHO prequalification can serve as a basis for quality assurance for 
procurement by international agencies and national programs in  
lower-income countries.
We have made efforts to address the unique needs of low-income 
countries where the infrastructure and personnel to deliver 
immunization services can be severely limited. A specific emphasis 
has been on making improvements to products in a way that make 
them compatible to the Programmatic Suitability Criteria for vaccines 
candidates for WHO Prequalification (PSPQ). These features include 
vaccine vial monitors (VVMs), the acceptability of a two-dose regimen 
for HPV vaccines and use in controlled-temperature-chain conditions.
In order to make our products available to the people who need them 
throughout the world, we registered 79 products and devices in 2020. 
The majority of these products were registered in low- and middle-
income countries in the Asia-Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe, 
Middle East and Africa, and Americas regions.
 For more information on our Access to Health Guiding Principles, 
and related key performance indicators, please visit the ESG Resources 
page on our corporate website.
GARDASIL® 
[Human 
Papillomavirus 
Quadrivalent 
(Types 6, 11, 16 
and 18) Vaccine, 
Recombinant]GARDASIL® 
9 (Human 
Papillomavirus 
9-valent 
Vaccine, 
Recombinant)ROTATEQ® 
(Rotavirus 
Vaccine, 
Live, Oral, 
Pentavalent)M-M-R®II 
(Measles, 
Mumps & 
Rubella Virus 
Vaccine Live)VARIVAX® 
(Varicella Virus 
Vaccine Live)ERVEBO® 
(Ebola Zaire 
Vaccine, Live)
Product is WHO prequalified Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Date of prequalification May 20,  
2009February 9, 
2018October 7, 
2008January 6, 
2009February 9, 
2018November 12, 
2019
Approximate number of countries 
where product is registered  
(as of April 2021)132 85 126 81 85 40U.S. product pricing
We have a long history of making our medicines and vaccines 
accessible and affordable through responsible pricing practices and 
industry‐leading patient access programs. In 2017, we began disclosing 
information about the price of our medicines in the U.S.
We are working to bring our medicines and vaccines to more people 
around the world in ways that are as accessible and affordable as 
possible for the patients who need them.
While each individual situation varies based on factual circumstances 
and market dynamics, generally we consider:
• Value provided to patients
• Value provided to health care systems 
• Unmet need
• Access
• R&D sustainability
• Competition
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 61
 Overview
In our fifth consecutive report, our 2020 U.S. Pricing Transparency 
Report shows an average annual net price decrease of our products  
of 0.9 percent in 2020.
The report also shows that our annual average list price increases 
across our portfolio have gone down each year for the past six years. 
For example, in 2020, the average annual list price across our portfolio 
increased by 3.1 percent   as compared with a 4.3 percent increase in 
2019. In 2020, our gross U.S. sales were reduced by 45.5 percent as a 
result of rebates, discounts and returns.Medicine Assistance Tool
As a demonstration of our commitment to helping low-income, 
uninsured patients gain access to our medicines and adult vaccines, 
we also participate in Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers 
of America’s Medicine Assistance Tool (MAT). MAT is a search engine 
designed to help patients, caregivers and health care providers 
learn more about access resources available through the various 
biopharmaceutical industry programs.
MAT helps eligible patients get free or nearly free brand name 
medicines through a single website that provides information for  
and access to public and private patient assistance programs,  
including programs offered by biopharmaceutical companies. To date, 
this tool has helped millions of Americans get free or reduced-cost 
prescription medicines.  
 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
62
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
U.S. product portfolio pricing1,22016 2017 2018 2019 2020
List price change (wholesale acquisition cost) vs prior year39.6% 6.6% 5.5% 4.3% 3.1%
Net price change vs prior year45.5% (1.9%) 2.99% 1.8% (0.9%)
Average discount540.9% 45.1% 44.3% 43.7% 45.5%
Note:	The	amount	of	rebates,	discounts	and	returns	is	estimated	by	the	company	and	methodologies	used	may	differ	from	methodologies	used	by	other	companies.	This	data	is	not	audited	
and	should	be	read	in	conjunction	with	the	company’s	filings	with	the	U.S.	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission.
1		U.S.	Product	Portfolio	includes	human	health	pharmaceutical	and	vaccine	products	marketed	by	the	company,	excluding	partnered	products.	The	product	sales	utilized	in	the	analysis	 
represent	~97	percent	of	the	total	U.S.	Product	Portfolio	in	2010	and	approached	99.5	percent	of	coverage	in	2020.
2	Annual	percent	change	vs.	prior	year	was	calculated	at	a	product	level	and	weighted	across	the	company’s	U.S.	Product	Portfolio.	
3	Represents	the	year‐over‐year	change	in	the	average	list	price	or	wholesale	acquisition	cost	(WAC).
4	Represents	the	year‐over‐year	change	in	average	net	price,	which	is	WAC	less	rebates,	discounts	and	returns.	
5	Weighted	average	annual	discount	is	calculated	by	dividing	annual	rebates,	discounts	and	returns	by	annual	gross	sales.
 For more information, you may also see our Pricing and Access Position Statement on our corporate website.
Patient assistance programs summary 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Patients utilizing our U.S. Patient Assistance Programs1306,000 244,000 233,000 239,000 189,500
30-day prescriptions filled (in millions) 1.7 2.1 2.1 2.2 1.6
1		Totals	represent	2016–2020	volumes	of	our	U.S.	Patient	Assistance	Program.	Volumes	vary	across	years	based	on	changes	in	covered	product	offerings	and	changes	across	the	health	care	
landscape.	Volumes	in	2020	reflect	a	decline	as	a	result	of	the	COVID-19	pandemic	with	fewer	patients	visiting	their	health	care	providers	for	care	and	prescriptions.
Affordability 2019 2020
Number of countries where dedicated affordability solutions have been initiated* 40 40
People reached globally through product donation and patient assistance programs and partnerships1,2  
(estimate in millions)*404 268
Number of patents filed in low-income countries, as defined by The World Bank in its country and lending groups 
classifications (annual)* 0 0
*	New	key	performance	indicators	(KPI)	reported	in	2019	to	support	refreshed	Access	to	Health	Guiding	Principles.
1	Estimate	includes	product	donations	through	our	company’s	Office	of	Social	Business	Innovation	and	patient	assistance	program.
2	The	significant	decrease	in	people	reached	in	2019	vs	2020	is	due	to	postponed	mass	drug	administration	programs	as	well	as	shipping	delays	as	a	result	of	the	pandemic	in	2020.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 63
 Overview
Product registration 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
New product and device registrations (annual)1,2143 143 124 97 79
Products submitted that have achieved WHO prequalification 
(cumulative)311 13 13 13 13
Number of patent applications filed in low-income countries4NR NR NR 0 0
NR:	Not	reported
1		Data	include	new	products	and	new	indications.
2		Data	for	all	years	have	been	updated	based	on	a	tracking	system	upgrade	that	corrected	miscounts	in	prior	years.
3		CRIXIVAN®	(indinavir	sulfate)	was	removed	from	our	product	list	in	2019	and	is	no	longer	included	in	the	total	number	of	products	that	have	achieved	WHO	prequalification.	
4		Countries	classified	as	low-income	countries	in	the	2019	World	Bank	Country	and	Lending	Group	classifications.GRI 203-1 Infrastructure	investments	and	services	supported
GRI 203-2 Indirect	economic	impacts	
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
64
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Products 
prequalified  
by WHOInternational Nonproprietary Name (INN) Date of prequalification
Family planning1,2
MARVELON 28® Ethinylestradiol + Desogestrel September 2010
EXLUTON® Lynestrenol June 2010
IMPLANON NXT® Etonogestrel May 2013
Vaccines
MMR-II® Measles, Mumps, Rubella Virus Vaccine Live January 2009 
ROTATEQ® Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent October 2008
GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, Recombinant (including a VVM) May 2009
GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, Recombinant  
(two-dose regimen to support its programmatic feasibility in developing countries) October 2014
GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, Recombinant  
(compatibility for use in a controlled temperature chain to facilitate its administration in  
high-temperature, low-cold-chain infrastructure areas of developing countries) May 2016
GARDASIL®9 Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, Recombinant  
(including a two-dose-regimen variation) 3February 2018
VARIVAX® Varicella Virus Vaccine Live (first varicella vaccine to receive WHO prequalification) February 2018
ERVEBO® Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live November 2019
HIV/AIDS treatments
STOCRIN® Efavirenz (600mg tablet, Oral Solution 30mg)  
Efavirenz (50mg tablet, 200mg tablet)May 2006  
May 2008
1		Source:	Medicines/Finished	Pharmaceutical	Products	|	WHO	-	Prequalification	of	Medical	Products	(IVDs,	Medicines,	Vaccines	and	Immunization	Devices,	Vector	Control)
2	As	of	June	2,	2021,	our	family	planning	products	have	been	spun	off	to	Organon.
3		Not	currently	available	through	UNICEF	procurement;	awaiting	Vaccine	Vial	Monitor	(VVM).Below is a list of products that have been prequalified by WHO as of April 1, 2021.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 65
 Overview
Access initiatives
We have made substantial contributions to strengthening health 
systems and access to health through long-standing key initiatives. 
These initiatives include Merck for Mothers, the MECTIZAN® Donation 
Program and our company’s Medical Outreach Program (MMOP). 
Merck for Mothers 
Merck for Mothers is our company’s $500 million global initiative to 
help create a world where no woman has to die while giving life. For 
nearly a decade through Merck for Mothers, we have brought Merck’s 
scientific and business expertise to help improve maternal health 
outcomes. Our efforts are focused on generating fresh thinking and 
infusing new approaches to help end the longstanding challenge of 
maternal mortality. We focus on strengthening health systems to 
sustain the delivery of high-quality maternity care services that benefit 
women and their communities. With our grantees and collaborators, 
we are improving health systems for women today and for the long 
term by advancing quality standards, catalyzing solutions that respond 
to community needs and harnessing innovations for maternal health. 
 For more information, please visit the Merck for Mothers website. 
The MECTIZAN® Donation Program 
The MECTIZAN® Donation Program (MDP) is the longest-running 
disease-specific drug donation program and partnership of its kind and 
is widely regarded as one of the most successful public-private health 
collaborations in the world. MDP operationalizes the commitment 
our company made in 1987 to donate MECTIZAN for the treatment of 
onchocerciasis (also known as river blindness) to all who need it, for 
as long as needed. Since then, the program has expanded to include 
additional commitments to donate MECTIZAN for the treatment of 
lymphatic filariasis. Since the program’s inception, our company has 
donated more than 4 billion MECTIZAN treatments. In addition to 
providing direct access for communities in need of treatment, the 
program has made significant impacts on health systems in some of 
the hardest-to-reach communities. 
 For more information on our efforts, please see the MECTIZAN story 
on Merck.com. 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
66
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
MECTIZAN Donation Program 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Direct financial investment in the program (in millions)1, 2$3.74 $3.10 $2.20 $3.10 $2.74
Total treatments approved (in millions) 283 300 346 403 417
Treatments approved for river blindness (in millions) 64 97 111 131 139
Treatments approved for lymphatic filariasis (LF) in river blindness 
endemic countries (in millions)141 89 140 141 141
Treatments approved for joint river blindness and LF programs (in millions) 78 114 83 70.7 75
Treatments approved for lymphatic filariasis (LF) in countries not endemic 
for river blindness2N/A N/A 12 60 62
River blindness endemic countries where elimination of LF has been 
validated by the World Health Organization (target: 30)0 1 1 2 3
Latin American countries where the elimination of river blindness has been 
verified by the World Health Organization (target: 6)3 4 4 4 4
1 Direct	investment	includes	operational	support	and	grants.
2  Following	our	company’s	commitment	in	2017	to	expand	the	donation	of	Mectizan	to	support	the	implementation	of	triple-therapy	for	the	elimination	of	LF	in	certain	settings,	the	Mectizan	
Donation	Program	expanded	in	2018	to	include	donations	for	LF	elimination	in	countries	not	endemic	for	river	blindness.	
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 67
 Overview
Medical Outreach Program 
Our company’s Medical Outreach Program (MMOP) is the primary 
means through which we donate pharmaceuticals and vaccines for 
humanitarian assistance in the developing world and in support 
of disaster relief worldwide. The MMOP helps expand access to 
our products, particularly in developing countries, by donating 
pharmaceuticals and vaccines to a limited number of qualified,  
U.S.-based NGO partners. The scope and reach of the MMOP varies 
from year to year and is influenced by changing medical needs in 
developing countries, the quantity of our medicines available for 
donation and the unpredictable nature of emergencies or disasters.
 For more information, please visit the MMOP page on our  
corporate website.
Merck Medical Outreach Program (MMOP) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Countries and territories reached by the MMOP 55 62 72 56 46
Estimated number of people reached1, 2, 3109,400 376,300 349,570 457,520 283,100
Disaster relief (product) contributions (in millions)4$13.41 $19.91 $12.76 $15.38 $11.2
1  Estimated	figures,	which	assume	all	product	reached	patients,	are	based	on	converting	volume	of	medicines	and	vaccines	donated.	Conversion	factors	for	this	estimate	were	developed	using	 
a	combination	of	QuintilesIMS	SMART	Data	and	U.S.	product	information	found	on	our	company’s	product	website.
2  Inhalation	brands	were	analyzed	differently	after	2016.	Prescriber	Information	dosing	information	was	used	to	calculate	total	doses	for	one	year	for	chronic	asthma	patient	and	assumes	 
splitting	inhalers.
3 Decline	in	patients	reached	in	2020	primarily	due	to	a	decrease	in	topical	corticosteroid	medicine	donations.
4 We	set	the	value	of	our	product	donations	based	on	the	U.S.	wholesale	acquisition	cost.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
68
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Disaster relief 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Total giving value of disaster relief contributions  
(cash and products, in millions)1, 2$13.4 $23.9 $10.2 $16.7 $20.3
1 Funding	provided	through	the	Office	of	Social	Business	Innovation.	
2 We	set	the	value	of	our	product	donations	based	on	the	U.S.	wholesale	acquisition	cost.Disaster relief
Our company is committed to supporting communities around the world that are affected by natural disasters. We look to local authorities and 
humanitarian relief agencies to first assess need and then respond in a timely, coordinated manner. We provide aid through financial and product 
donations to meet the immediate needs of affected communities.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 69
 Overview
Addressing barriers to health 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Health care workers trained through major programs and 
partnerships (estimate)132,000 74,000 67,000 68,000 78,000
Annual investment in partnerships, programs and impact 
investments that support health care capacity-building and 
address underlying barriers to access to health (in millions)1$28 $40 $37 $63 $49
People reached through investment in partnerships, programs 
and impact investment that support health care capacity-
building and address underlying barriers to access to health1,2 
(estimate in millions)293 311 357 422 285
Percentage of investment in partnerships and programs to 
strengthen health care capacity and address barriers to access, 
that is allocated to impact evaluation3NR NR NR 10% 10%
Investment in patient-and-provider education programs  
(in millions)$80 $90 $115 $102 $96
NR:	Not	reported
1	Represents	investments	made	by	our	Office	of	Social	Business	Innovation.
2	The	significant	decrease	in	people	reached	in	2019	vs	2020	is	due	to	postponed	mass	drug	administration	programs	as	well	as	shipping	delays	as	a	result	of	the	pandemic	in	2020.	
3	Percentage	calculated	based	on	total	investments	in	partnerships	and	programs	to	strengthen	health	care	capacity	and	address	barriers	to	access	supported	through	our	company’s	Foundation.
Philanthropic social investments 
Our philanthropic social investments address underlying barriers to 
access to health and help advance health equity around the world. 
Our approach to these investments is guided by several key principles: 
addressing critical global health needs where we can have a meaningful 
impact; promoting health equity by addressing health disparities in 
vulnerable, underserved communities; collaborating with diverse 
partners to build healthier, stronger communities; and leveraging our 
range of resources (financial, product, and expertise) to achieve greater 
impact on population health outcomes. 
Established in 1957, our company’s Foundation is funded entirely 
by the company and is our chief source of financial support for 
qualified, eligible nonprofit organizations whose programs align with our philanthropic priorities. Our company and Foundation support 
innovative programs and partnerships to improve the health and 
wellbeing of people around the world. Through these programs, we 
believe that by working closely with others—governments, donors, 
patient groups, health care professionals, NGOs, academic institutions, 
multilateral agencies and the private sector—we can help strengthen 
health systems and improve population health outcomes.
 For more information on our philanthropy programs, please visit  
the Philanthropy page on our corporate website. For information on 
philanthropic programs specific to our Animal Health business please visit 
our Merck Animal Health website.
We recognize that our company’s success depends in large part on 
our relationships and interactions with local communities, including 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
70
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
community leaders, nonprofit organizations, local businesses, schools, 
elected officials and local media. The communities where we operate 
are home to our workforce as well as many of our suppliers. It is critical 
to understand the concerns and needs of our communities and address 
local challenges so that we can help build stronger communities and 
support the sustainability of our business.
We contribute to the economy of local communities directly and 
indirectly through employment, training, support of local suppliers, 
local R&D and paying taxes. We also strive to have a positive impact 
on communities by protecting the environment, maintaining safe 
operations and respecting human rights. Our community engagement 
programs aim to strengthen communities where our employees live 
and work by helping address critical health and social needs. 
Our Neighbor of Choice (NOC)  grants program supports the work of 
local nonprofit organizations dedicated to promoting the wellbeing 
of community residents in areas where we have a major presence. 
Additionally, our company’s Partnership for Giving (P4G) matching  
gift program doubles the donations made by employees in the U.S.  
and Puerto Rico to causes that are important to them. Through a 
dollar-for-dollar match of employee contributions, our company’s 
Foundation supports nonprofits that promote a healthier society, 
advance education, foster the arts, address the welfare of animals  
and preserve the environment.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 71
 Overview
Grants and contributions 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Grants and contributions (total cash, in-kind and product)  
(in millions)1$2,238 $2,722 $2,793 $3,096 $2,890
Cash grants and contributions (in millions) $117 $94 $84 $82 $104
Product donations through U.S. Patient Assistance Program  
(in millions)$798 $1,112 $1,242 $1,460 $1,600
Product donations for ex-U.S. programs and U.S. disaster relief 
(in millions)2$1,320 $1,513 $1,464 $1,550 $1,280
Valuation of employee volunteer time (in-kind, in millions)3,4$2.6 $3.2 $3.1 $4.1 $1.0
1 Due	to	shipping	delays	in	2020,	some	product	donations	approved	in	2020	were	shipped	in	2021.
2  Includes	our	Medical	Outreach	Program	(including	U.S.	disaster	relief),	the	African	Comprehensive	HIV/AIDS	Partnerships	(2016	only),	the	MECTIZAN®	Donation	Program	and	MSD	division	
and	subsidiary	donations.
3  Includes	valuation	of	volunteer	time	for	only	those	employees	who	participated	in	the	MSD	Fellowship	for	Global	Health	program	and	our	company’s	Pro	Bono	Legal	and	other	skills-based	
volunteer	programs.
4  2020	decrease	in	employee	volunteering	valuation	is	due	to	the	temporary	suspension	of	the	MSD	Fellowship	for	Global	Health	Program	and	decreased	in-person	volunteering	as	a	result	 
of	COVID-19.
Partnership for Giving (P4G) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Total contribution (in millions)1, 2$26 $25 $22 $15.1 $19.3
Number of organizations that benefited36,200 8,770 7,350 5,645 6,468
Number of employee participants48,200 8,302 6,503 5,083 5,396
1  Total	contribution	includes	Foundation	matching	funds	for	Dollars	for	Doers	and	P4G	matching	gift	programs,	and	2020	active-employee	participant	funds	donated	through	the	P4G	Direct	
Giving	program.
2 2020	increase	is	largely	due	to	increase	in	employee	giving	and	matching	gifts	to	support	COVID-19	response	efforts.
3 Includes	organizations	receiving	funds	through	the	P4G	matching	gift	and	Dollars	for	Doers	programs.	
4 Includes	active	employee	participants	in	the	P4G	matching	gift	program.
 For more information on access and pricing, see GRI 203 Management approach on page 53.Grants and contributions
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
72
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Procurement	practices  
GRI 204 Management	approach  
Global Economic Inclusion & Supplier Diversity 
Global Economic Inclusion & Supplier Diversity (EI&SD) is integrated 
into our overall Global Diversity & Inclusion (GD&I) strategy and 
supports our corporate vision. The EI&SD Center of Excellence (CoE) is 
a member of the GD&I Business Consortium, where EI&SD is one of  
four target areas focusing on:
• Increasing business performance through diversity and inclusion
• Creating a competitive business advantage
• Attracting and retaining top talent
• Driving shareholder value
Economic Inclusion & Supplier Diversity is the epicenter of our 
company’s diverse and inclusive procurement practices. We create 
economic opportunities for underrepresented communities by 
procuring products and services from minority-, women-, veteran-, 
lesbian-, gay-, bisexual and transgender (LGBT)-, and disability-  
owned enterprises. 
Our goals go beyond the amount of dollars we spend with small- 
and diversity-owned businesses, as we focus on the growth and 
development of our suppliers to drive economic impact and value 
delivery to our company. We are committed to supporting the 
businesses that are the economic engine of growth around the  
world by making a difference in global economic inclusion.Celebrating 35 years of impact and inclusion
Diversity is mission critical for innovation and scientific excellence,  
as well as for better decision-making and cultural agility. This is our  
35th year of pursuing goods and services from diverse suppliers.  
We see that as a huge milestone. It’s an opportunity for us to increase 
our program awareness and to look more deeply at our pipeline and  
the suppliers we work with to see where we can expand opportunities 
for the communities that we serve.
2020 Virtual Engagement Center
The challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic haven’t changed 
our commitment to Economic Inclusion and Supplier Diversity. 
Instead, they’ve inspired innovation. In 2020, we launched the Virtual 
Engagement Center with the purpose of modernizing educational 
offerings by curating our company’s online educational content and 
developing webinars specific to diverse business needs. Topics included 
the following:
• Certification to Success • Think Globally, Act Locally
• Get to Know Your Target Client • Differentiate Yourself
• Show up and Follow up • Winning the Business
• Increase Visibility in the Network
• Create and Communicate a Supplier Diversity Program
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 73
 Overview
In addition, this platform allowed us to establish meaningful business 
connections via the Virtual Business Opportunity Fair, a remote-hosted 
exhibition/tradeshow for diverse suppliers. Two events were held—one 
in June and another in November. 
Attendees of the virtual events included nearly 2,000 diverse  
suppliers, partners and advocacy representatives from the U.S., 
Puerto Rico, Canada, Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, the United Kingdom, 
Germany, India, China, Vietnam and South Africa. The events included 
webinars, speaker sessions, panel discussions and virtual tradeshows. 
Throughout the course of the day, attendees engaged in over  
2,700 private chats connecting suppliers, our procurement specialists 
and advocacy groups. 
Performance
In 2020, diverse spend represented 12 percent of our total 
procurement spend, exceeding our corporate goal to achieve  
$2 billion in spend with minority-owned, women-owned, veteran-
owned, LGBT-owned and disability-owned business enterprises.
Supplier diversity 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Diverse-supplier spend (in millions) $1,500 $1,962 $2,111 $2,433 $2,270
Small-business spend (in millions) $753 $802 $973 $979 $775
Note:	The	acquisition	of	small	suppliers	may	have	impacted	their	small	business	status	and	therefore	affected	the	small	business	spend	reflected	above.
$2.3 billion
spending with  
diverse suppliers
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
74
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Billion Dollar Roundtable
Our ongoing economic inclusion and supplier diversity efforts will 
enable us to continue our membership in the Billion Dollar Roundtable 
(BDR), an exclusive industry organization that recognizes and 
celebrates corporations that achieve spending of at least $1 billion with 
minority-, women-, veteran-, LGBT and disability-owned enterprises 
headquartered in the U.S. and globally. Our membership in the BDR 
allows us to share and access best practices in supply chain diversity 
excellence with other organizations that have also achieved this status.
As part of our 35 years of inclusion and impact, we are proud to be 
hosting the next Billion Dollar Roundtable Summit in 2022. The 
Summit will provide another opportunity to chart a course for the bold 
and transformative steps which are urgently needed to ensure we are 
optimizing positive economic impact to some of our most distressed 
areas, share best practices and encourage global partners to continue 
to deliver on our mission.In addition to the Billion Dollar Roundtable, we work in partnership 
with others, including:
• Disability:IN
• LGBT-owned Business Certification in Canada (CGLCC)
• Minority Supplier Development Council UK (MSDUK)
• Minority-owned Business Certification in Canada (CAMSC)
• National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC)
• National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC)
• National Veterans Business Development Council (NVBDC)
• United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce (USHCC)
• United States Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce 
(USPAACC)
• SASDC—South Africa Supplier Diversity Council (South Africa)
• SupplyNation
• WeConnect International
• Women Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC)
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 75
 Overview
Anticorruption
GRI 205 Management	approach
Our company is built on the reputation forged with our customers, 
partners and stakeholders. Bribery and corruption tarnishes reputation 
and undermines public trust. Offering or paying bribes or kickbacks is 
against the laws of the markets where we do business. Our company is 
committed to observing the laws and regulations that govern our 
operations and activities wherever we do business. To that end, we 
maintain policies and procedures that require compliance with the laws 
and regulations that govern the way we market and sell our medicines, 
vaccines and other products.
We have a well-established global ethics and compliance program  
that is consistent with the International Federation of Pharmaceutical  
Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) Code of Practice requirements, 
as well as with other applicable regional or country industry codes of 
conduct, including those issued by the Pharmaceutical Research and  
Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) and the European Federation of  
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA).
Our company’s Board of Directors and senior management, including 
the chief ethics and compliance officer, provide the foundational 
elements of leadership, accountability and structure to oversee the 
company’s global ethics and compliance program. 
The chief ethics and compliance officer reports directly to our 
company’s CEO and provides regular updates to senior leaders, and 
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, on key indicators of 
ethical culture. This reporting structure supports open communications 
regarding important developments that relate to ethics and compliance.
Our company’s robust anti-bribery/anticorruption program and 
corporate prevention of bribery and corruption policy give our 
employees the awareness and knowledge to comply with applicable 
laws and regulations, and to understand that the company will not 
tolerate any act, or even the appearance of, impropriety.Our policy prohibits the offer, promise or giving of any payment 
or benefit at any time to an individual or entity for the purpose 
of improperly influencing decisions or actions with respect to our 
business. Our policy also prohibits any act that gives the appearance of 
offering anything of value for a business advantage. This policy applies 
to direct engagements (i.e., those conducted by our company) as well 
as to indirect engagements (i.e., those managed through a third-party 
intermediary or partner).
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
76
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 205-2 Communications	and	training	on	anticorruption
Annual ethics and policy certification
An important component of our corporate ethics and compliance 
program is our annual ethics and policy certification. The annual review 
process requires selected company employees to certify adherence to 
the Code of Conduct and corporate policies on preventing bribery and 
corruption, antitrust-law compliance and conflict of interest and insider 
trading. In addition, U.S.-based (including Puerto Rico) employees 
must certify compliance with our corporate policy on the effects of 
exclusions, debarments, suspensions and health care-related criminal 
convictions, reporting and screening.
These employees are also expected to regulate their outside activities 
to avoid any conflicts of interest and to certify, in writing, whether 
actual or potential conflicts of interest exist. Where potential conflicts 
are identified, the Office of Ethics will work with management to take 
actions to mitigate the potential conflict.Ethics and compliance training is an important part of creating a 
strong culture. To ensure that all employees understand our ethical 
expectations and principles, we have a Code of Conduct annual 
training series that has been completed by nearly 100 percent of our 
employees. The 2020 topics included four specific modules: code of 
conduct, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, accurate books and records, 
and conflicts of interest. 
Supplemental training on anti-bribery and anti-corruption is also 
provided for employees who engage with non-U.S. government 
officials. Additionally, our program ensures that there are cross-
functional discussions in the regions and markets where we do business 
to ensure that our bribery and corruption policies, requirements and 
processes are implemented and applied appropriately. 
Employees in the Human Health Division in the U.S. are also required 
to understand, among other things, their responsibilities under the 
Anti-Kickback Statute, the U.S. Prescription Drug Marketing Act and 
all applicable FDA promotional regulations. 
Ethics and integrity are key leadership competencies that are assessed 
as part of annual performance reviews and play an integral role in our 
decisions about employee advancement within the company.
100% 
employees responded 
to the disclosure 
statement on  
the Conflicts of 
Interest forms
>99% 
employees trained on 
the Code of Conduct 
training series
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 77
 Overview
Anti-competitive	behavior
GRI 206 Management	approach
We adhere to strict ethical sales and marketing practices in all our 
businesses, whether pharmaceuticals, vaccines or animal health.
One of the ways we provide product information is by maintaining 
informative and ethical professional relationships with health  
care providers.
Our interactions with providers, other customers and consumers are 
governed by laws and regulations, and by our long-standing global 
Code of Conduct, Our Values & Standards. We enforce these external 
and internal standards through our ethics and compliance program.
We recognize that both our reputation for integrity and the trust that 
our stakeholders place in us are dependent on our ethical practices. 
Consequently, we want to make certain that the ways in which 
we market and sell our products to our customers — health care 
professionals, health insurers and governments — include accurate, 
balanced and useful information so that prescribers can make the best 
decisions for their patients.
Our high ethical sales and marketing standards require that scientific 
information is the predominant factor in prescribing decisions, 
reinforcing our reputation for providing high-quality products and for 
contributing to improvements in public health.
Our professional sales representatives and other employees inform 
our customers about our medicines and vaccines and their appropriate 
use. To respond to increasing requests for on-demand information, in 
certain countries we offer resources and product information to health 
care providers on company websites and other digital platforms.
In some countries, where permitted by law, we may directly inform 
patients and other consumers about diseases and available treatments 
that they may wish to discuss with their doctors. We believe direct-
to-consumer advertising contributes to greater awareness about 
conditions and diseases, which can benefit public health by increasing 
the number of patients appropriately diagnosed and treated.Fostering ethical practices
We believe that our marketing, sales and advertising activities make 
an important contribution to medicine by informing our customers of 
treatment options based on the most recent scientific information and 
findings from rigorous clinical studies.
Our sales and marketing practices are governed by external laws  
and regulations and industry codes of conduct, and by our own global 
Code of Conduct, our corporate policies and procedures, and our ethics 
and compliance program.
Our ethics and compliance program seeks to address and prevent 
inappropriate practices, and we evaluate our policies and practices as 
appropriate. Our practices are monitored, and compliance is enforced 
to ensure that our interactions with customers and consumers help 
inform their decisions accurately and in a balanced manner. We believe 
that compliance with all policies governing scientific, business and 
promotion-related activities, in letter and spirit, is a corporate and 
individual responsibility of the highest order. Through our ethical 
behavior, we strive to ensure that scientific information predominates 
in prescribing decisions.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
78
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Our guiding principles for ethical business 
practices involving the medical and scientific 
community include the following:
We provide current, accurate and balanced information about our products; 
we share sound scientific and educational information; and we support 
medical research and education.
Our employees are prohibited from offering health care professionals items 
of personal benefit, such as tickets to sporting events, support for office 
social events or gift certificates for stores or golf outings. Where permitted, 
we may occasionally provide health care professionals with approved 
educational items that are not of substantial monetary value and that are 
intended primarily for educational purposes. Such materials may include 
medical textbooks, medical journals and anatomical models.
Our employees and others speaking on behalf of the company may give 
presentations specifically designed to provide the type of information that 
practicing health care professionals have indicated is needed and most useful 
in the treatment of their patients, in accordance with U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) regulations and the regulations of other countries in 
which the presentations or discussions are taking place.
A company representative may offer occasional modest meals to  
health care professionals in connection with an informational  
presentation; however, such meals must be in accordance with  
local codes and regulations.
 For more information, please see GRI 102-16 on page 38.GRI 206-1 Anti-competitive	behavior
As a condition of employment, all of our sales and marketing 
employees are required to be certified periodically on sales and 
marketing practices.
In the U.S., for example, employees who do not satisfactorily meet 
these training requirements may not conduct specific activities on their 
own and must repeat the training until they meet the requirements.
All new employees receive training and testing and must be certified on 
relevant policies and our company’s ethical operating standards. And 
although many of our employees who market and sell our medicines and 
vaccines have advanced scientific or medical degrees and backgrounds, 
all of our sales representatives must complete general sales and product 
training. Training is specific to the country where an employee is based 
and covers the scope of the employee’s responsibilities in ensuring 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Sales representatives are trained on anti-bribery and anticorruption 
laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery 
Act. Sales representatives in the U.S. are also required to understand, 
among other things, their responsibilities under the Anti-Kickback 
Statute, the U.S. Prescription Drug Marketing Act and all applicable 
FDA promotional regulations.
After this initial training, we require periodic training aimed at 
recertifying employees on relevant policies and practices in accordance 
with local and functional requirements.
We stress that if our employees are unsure about the appropriateness 
of the conduct that they ask for help. There are several places 
employees can turn for assistance. The first option is to talk with their 
manager. If they do not feel comfortable with that course of action,  
the other resources they may contact are:
• Divisional Compliance Departments
• Office of Ethics
• Privacy Office
• Office of General Counsel
• Human Resources Department
• MSDethics.com
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 79
 Overview
In addition to mandatory training on our Code of Conduct, employees 
receive training on other levels of business practice and compliance, 
according to their roles and responsibilities. We evaluate and update 
the content for all marketing and sales training periodically to ensure 
that it remains relevant and current.
Industry codes of conduct
Our sales representatives must provide truthful, non-misleading 
information in their interactions with the medical and scientific 
community. Our compliance program is consistent with applicable laws 
and regulations, and is aligned with the International Federation of  
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) Code of  
Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices, as well as with regional and 
country industry codes, such as the Pharmaceutical Research and  
Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) Code and the Compliance Program 
Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, published by the Office of 
the Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
The pharmaceutical industry as a whole recognized that more 
needed to be done to address concerns raised by public officials and 
stakeholders in the health care community. Self-regulating industry 
codes of conduct such as the IFPMA, the European Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and PhRMA codes 
set standards for the industry’s sales and marketing practices and help 
to ensure that companies have adequate policies and procedures in 
place to comply with the codes.
Among PhRMA’s Code on the Interactions with Healthcare Professionals 
(the Code) key components is an annual requirement for company CEOs 
and chief compliance officers to certify personally that they have policies 
and processes in place that foster compliance with the Code. The Code 
also encourages companies to periodically obtain third-party verification 
of their compliance policies and procedures. We complete PhRMA Code 
certification every year in compliance with the Code. We also periodically 
obtain third-party verification that our policies and procedures are 
adequate to support compliance with the Code.
Other requirements of the Code have previously been incorporated into 
our already strong ethical business practices. For example, our company 
follows the standards for commercial support of continuing medical 
education established by the Accreditation Council for Continuing 
Medical Education, and our ethics and compliance program requires that 
company representatives be periodically assessed to make sure they 
comply with relevant company policies and standards of conduct.Direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising
We believe that DTC advertising can be an important and helpful  
way to inform patients about diseases that may be relevant to  
them and about therapeutic options they may want to discuss  
with their physicians.
Our company has a long-standing policy of voluntarily submitting new 
U.S.-based DTC advertising campaigns to the FDA for its review and 
comment before running them. Under our DTC policies and practices, 
the information provided in our DTC advertising must:
• Contain appropriate product benefit and risk information
• Be appropriately balanced, consistent with FDA regulations, and use 
appropriate “taste and tone”
• Be approved by our company’s Promotion Review Team or Digital 
Engagement Team, a governing body consisting of a team of 
reviewers (including the job owner, an attorney, a physician, a 
representative from the Office of Promotion and Advertising Review, 
and a product scientific specialist) who ensure that promotional 
material is clinically and scientifically accurate, compliant with 
applicable laws and regulations, and compliant with company policy.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
80
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
We try to help consumers achieve better health outcomes by delivering 
accurate, relevant and understandable information on disease 
prevention, identification and potential treatment. To remain true  
to this goal, we adhere to the letter and spirit of U.S. Food and  
Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and guidelines governing  
DTC promotion, meet or exceed all Pharmaceutical Research and  
Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) guidelines on DTC advertising , 
and follow a comprehensive set of internal policies and practices when 
engaging in DTC advertising within the U.S.
We adhere to updated 2019 PhRMA guidelines that all DTC television 
advertising that identifies a medicine by name should include direction 
as to where patients can find information about the cost of the 
medicine, such as a company-developed website, including the list price 
and average, estimated or typical patient out-of-pocket costs, or other 
context about the potential cost of the medicine. In addition, we include 
information on our U.S. Patient Assistance Program in all new U.S.-
based DTC print and television advertisements for eligible products.
We inform and educate health care professionals about our 
products before we advertise them to consumers. We implement 
comprehensive programs to educate physicians and other prescribers 
about a new product for an appropriate period of time before starting 
product-specific DTC broadcast advertising in the U.S.
These principles and our practices are reflected in the PhRMA  
Guiding Principles on Direct-to-Consumer Advertisements about  
Prescription Medicines.
 For more information on our ethical marketing practices, please visit 
GRI 417 on page 167 .Tax 
GRI 207-1 Approach	to	tax	
We recognize our role as a responsible taxpayer to pay our full share 
of taxes, including corporate income taxes. We also recognize that our 
contribution is much more than the corporate income tax we pay. 
We pay a significant amount of taxes to national and local governments 
in the form of employment taxes value added taxes, sales taxes, excise 
taxes, property taxes and customs duties. We also collect numerous 
taxes paid by our employees. We pay all taxes due in full and on time 
in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The way we conduct business, 
including the economic impact from the taxes we pay, also reflects our 
commitment to striving to reach those in need with our medicines and 
vaccines and helping to build robust, durable health systems worldwide 
through partnership, investment and innovation.
Our chief financial officer (CFO) is ultimately responsible for our overall 
tax position. The day-to-day management of tax is performed by 
the company’s global corporate tax department, which is led by the 
Senior Vice President of Tax. Effective oversight of the tax function 
is maintained by at least an annual tax presentation to the Audit 
Committee of our Board, and regular meetings with the CFO, Senior 
Vice President, Tax and Treasury, and other executive leaders to 
discuss emerging tax matters.
Sales and marketing 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Number of warning letters or untitled letters from OPDP1  
or APLB 2 in the U.S.0 0 0 0 0
1		OPDP:	Office	of	Prescription	Drug	Promotion.
2		APLB:	Advertising	and	Promotional	Labeling	Branch	(APLB)	of	the	FDA	Center	for	Biologics	Evaluation	and	Research.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 81
 Overview
We comply with tax rules and regulations on a worldwide basis and 
only engage in tax planning that is aligned with our commercial 
business activities and reputation. We are committed to the 
arm’s length standard in transfer pricing and OECD guidelines for 
international tax matters. We have a zero-tolerance approach to tax 
evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion. Where uncertainty exists, 
and when appropriate, we seek clarification from our external advisors 
and/or governmental authorities. This can take the form of tax rulings 
or advanced pricing agreements from governmental authorities. 
We monitor proposals and changes to tax incentives and regulations 
in the countries in which we operate in order to assess their impact on 
our business, and we actively participate in industry groups interacting 
with government representatives to support the development of 
effective tax systems that encourage innovation and growth. We 
utilize available tax incentives and opportunities, such as Research and 
Development tax reliefs, in the spirit in which they were intended.
The effective income tax rates of 19.4 percent in 2020, 14.7 percent in 
2019, and 28.8 percent in 2018 reflect the impacts of acquisition and 
divestiture-related costs and restructuring costs partially offset by the 
beneficial impact of foreign earnings, including product mix. 
To learn more, please download our Global Tax Strategy from our 
corporate website. 
 For information on our effective tax rates for the last three years, 
please see GRI 201-1 on page 50 .
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
82
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Environmental
 See our GRI Index on page 171.
Materials
GRI 301 Materials
By using more efficient and innovative processing methods and 
technologies, we are reducing the amount of energy, water and 
raw materials we use to make our products, thereby minimizing the 
amount of waste we generate. 
We go to great lengths to ensure that our products are designed, 
made and used in a safe, effective and environmentally sound manner. 
We deliver on this commitment by maintaining a highly trained and 
capable scientific staff and by actively pursuing manufacturing process 
improvements that minimize environmental impacts. 
We have set environmental sustainability goals to demonstrate this 
commitment with concrete targets and timelines. To ensure that our 
knowledge stays current with that of thought leaders and experts in 
the industry, we also collaborate with external resources and industry 
groups, such as the American Chemical Society and the European 
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations.Products
We conduct extensive testing of our products to identify and 
understand any potential safety, health and environmental hazards.  
We manage and communicate information about hazardous  
materials to keep our employees, contractors, transporters and  
other partners safe.
We are actively engaged in conversations on product stewardship to 
understand and act on the issues specific to our industry worldwide.
We share best practices within the industry via our membership in 
the Conference Board Product Stewardship Council, the American 
Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Green Chemistry Initiative (“CHEMLEG”), 
the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and 
Associations (EFPIA), the International Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) and the ACS Green Chemistry 
Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable (ACS GCIPR).
Our objective is to maintain compliance and assure supply of life-saving 
medicines as we look to further minimize our environmental footprint 
in the future. 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 83
 Overview
Governance
Our efforts in this area are overseen by our Green & Sustainable 
Science Steering Committee and the Environmental Health and Safety 
(EHS) Council.
Programs and initiatives
Our chemists and engineers are trained in green-design principles 
and are provided with tools and resources to help them develop 
manufacturing processes that use safer chemicals and reduced 
quantities of raw materials. We use innovations like nanotechnology  
to make our products more effective, while ensuring that product 
safety always remains of utmost importance.
Complying with chemical substance and product requirements is 
a top priority for us. We track numerous existing and emerging 
chemical control regulations that require us to register specific types 
of chemicals with the proper authorities. To meet these requirements, 
our scientists complete assessments of the environmental and human 
health risks of the substances with which we work and submit the 
required regulatory notifications. Additionally, we provide details 
on product use and risk-based control measures in accordance with 
applicable regulations.
Packaging
Our product stewardship program extends to our customers and 
patients through the design of effective, low-impact product 
packaging. Our company also supports the development of science-
based, cost-effective and environmentally sound programs that 
promote the proper disposal of unused medicines in accordance 
with regional requirements. For more information, see our position 
statement on responsible disposal of medicines, which can be found  
on our corporate website.
The materials we use for packaging our finished products serve a range 
of important purposes; the foremost purpose is to protect the purity, 
efficacy and physical integrity of the product. Packaging also provides 
the customer with information and convenience, the pharmacist  
or provider with accurate dispensing information at the point of  
purchase, and our business with marketing value. For some products,  
packaging also serves safety functions such as child resistance and 
tampering evidence. In addition to these critical functions of packaging, there is also the 
consideration of the environmental impact of the materials we use. 
After it has served its critical function(s), packaging becomes our 
customer’s waste and therefore must be accounted for in our designs.
We have adopted “Design for Environment” practices that help 
our engineers design new product packages that are better for 
the environment by minimizing package sizes and using more 
environmentally friendly materials, where possible.
As a standard business practice, we review all of our new human 
health packaging designs prior to launch to understand and minimize 
environmental impacts as much as possible, while still providing 
adequate protection for our products. 
To help us evaluate the differences in environmental impacts between 
packaging options, we use a simplified life-cycle assessment (LCA) tool 
that provides information on the environmental impacts generated by 
the materials used in our packaging. 
In addition, we are working to establish foundational, environmentally-
focused packaging principles for the future of our packaging design. 
These principles, in addition to our LCA tool, serve to guide decision 
making for packaging design.
We continue to monitor global trends around material use such as 
the New Plastics Economy, and around how we might incorporate 
“circular economy” concepts into the critical functions of packaging 
for pharmaceuticals. It is unclear how these trends will impact our 
industry, however, these are important signals of a changing external 
approach to the use and recovery of specific materials like fiber-based 
products, plastics such as PVC, metals and others. 
Governance
Packaging design is managed by the Global Pharmaceutical Operations 
area of the company with oversight from the Environmental Health and 
Safety Council.
In 2020, we responded to the CDP forest questionnaire for timber 
products, specifically for paper and secondary and tertiary packaging. 
Also in 2020, CDP graded our disclosure with a C “awareness” rating, 
indicating that we have “Knowledge of impacts on, and of, forests 
issues”. According to CDP, our company is among 50 percent of 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
84
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Materials	and	packagingcompanies that reached Awareness level in our Activity Group  
(Biotech and pharma) for Timber. We performed a gap assessment 
of our questionnaire response and developed a roadmap for 
improvements in this area over the next several years.
We are in the early stages of our program development and are in the 
process of assessing the impact of other forest risk commodities. 
Solvent use
Solvents play a key role in the research and manufacturing of 
our products, as well as in equipment cleaning. Because of their 
significance to our business and the life-cycle impact they represent, 
we focus on designing our processes to minimize or avoid their use 
where practical. Where we do use solvents, we maximize efficiency  
and control them in our emissions, effluents and waste.
We have an active Green and Sustainable Science program (see 
following page) to design our new processes using fewer, less toxic, 
solvents and other hazardous materials, and to reuse and recycle more 
of the solvents we do use. 
For cleaning our manufacturing equipment, we use water-based 
methods where they are as effective as solvents. At each of our manufacturing sites, we have engineers who are responsible for 
identifying and driving process-improvement projects. When it is 
not practical to reuse regenerated solvents in our own production 
processes, we either work with suppliers who recover the spent 
solvents for resale to other industries, or safely burn them as a source 
of energy. Any used solvents that leave our site as hazardous waste 
are managed at offsite facilities that are on our list of approved waste 
management sites.
Chemical management
A comprehensive and effective chemical management program is 
critical to the safety and protection of our employees, the communities 
in which we operate and the environment.
We have put procedures, systems and processes in place to manage 
the approval, procurement, inventory, receipt, transfer, storage, use 
and disposal of chemicals at all of our sites. We provide our employees 
and others with information about the identities and potential hazards 
of the chemicals in our operations and final products through proper 
labeling of chemicals and the creation of safety data sheets.
Goal: 
100%	of	the	packaging	for	our 	
new	human	health	products	will 	
be	reviewed	for	environmental 	
impact	and	improvement. 	
AchievedProgress: 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 85
 Overview
Green and sustainable science
Developing innovative, cost-efficient manufacturing processes with 
low environmental impact aligns with our company’s environmental 
sustainability strategy. Green and sustainable science is the design 
of new products and processes that reduce or eliminate the use or 
generation of hazardous substances.
The concept applies across the life cycle of a product, including its 
design, manufacture, use and ultimate disposal.
There is a trend towards more regulatory restrictions and increased 
oversight in many places around the world. Our strategy for green  
and sustainable commercial chemical route development could help  
to avoid potential future issues in the supply chain.
Our company’s overall objective is to be viewed as the leader in 
the industry for the development of innovative, efficient, green 
and sustainable commercial syntheses of our small molecule active 
pharmaceutical ingredients (API), from sustainable commodity raw 
materials, where feasible. We are also exploring ways to reduce the 
environmental impact of biologics and vaccine manufacturing.Governance
Our company’s Process Research and Development department is 
responsible for chemistry development. The progress toward our goals is 
overseen by various internal bodies including the Scientific Advisory Council 
(SAC), the Development and Commercialization Review Committee (DCRC) 
and the Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Council. 
Strategy
Our integrated strategy involves several stages and aims to provide 
innovative solutions rather than incremental improvements to historical 
practices. We see science and innovation as critical enablers to developing 
sustainable, low-cost manufacturing processes that provide both 
environmental and economic benefits over the life cycles of our products.
We aim to develop the most efficient and sustainable processes at product 
launch, with the goal of minimizing material use and waste from our 
commercial manufacturing. Our company’s research laboratories utilize 
an innovative “green-by-design” development strategy to progress from 
an initial early clinical supply route to a fully optimized and sustainable 
commercial manufacturing process. We have developed aggressive Process 
Mass Intensity (PMI) targets for our API processes utilizing an internally 
developed SMART PMI tool and regularly evaluate PMI at every stage of 
development. We use this tool during the development of all our new API 
processes and achieved our stated goal that by 2020, at least 90 percent 
of our human health API processes will meet internal sustainability targets 
at the time of product launch. Nine out of ten of our new processes met 
the internal sustainability targets, thus achieving the 90 percent success 
rate threshold. 
Programs and initiatives
As part of our Green & Sustainable Science program, we calculate 
the process mass intensity (PMI) of our human health products. PMI 
represents the number of kilograms of raw materials (including water) 
used to produce one kilogram of an API or biologic. PMI indicates how 
efficiently we convert raw materials into final products. We use this metric 
internally to compare different manufacturing methods, identify process 
improvement opportunities and track our progress. We are also using life-
cycle assessment (LCA) tools to further evaluate the environmental impacts 
of our processes.Green	and	sustainable	science
Goal: 
By	2020,	at	least	90%	of	our	new	human 	
health	API	processes	will	meet	internal 	
sustainability	targets	at	launch.
AchievedProgress: 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
86
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
American Chemistry Society (ACS) Green 
Chemistry Institute (GCI)
We are a founding member of the ACS Green Chemistry Institute® 
Pharmaceutical Roundtable, a partnership between the ACS GCI and 
member pharmaceutical companies. The Roundtable assists with 
the development of tools, such as solvent selection, reagent guides 
and the PMI calculator, which drive the integration of sustainability 
into process design. Roundtable members also work together to 
support and advance academic research and education on new ways 
to apply green and sustainable science to pharmaceutical discovery 
and manufacture, which have resulted in several industry publications 
on more sustainable processes and technologies. More recently, the 
ACS GCI member companies have developed tools and guidelines for 
sustainable production practices relevant to bioprocessing.
In 2017, 2018, 2019 and again in 2020, our company was honored  
by the EPA and the ACS as a winner of the Green Chemistry  
Challenge Awards. 
In 2017, our scientists were recognized for the design and 
commercialization of a green synthesis of Prevymis™  
(letermovir) utilizing state-of-the-art approaches to sustainable  
commercial manufacturing.
In 2018, our scientists were recognized for successfully applying 
green chemistry design principles to the commercial synthesis of 
PIFELTRO™ (doravirine), an antiviral drug approved in 2018 in the  
U.S. and Europe.
In 2019, we were recognized for changing the way we manufacture 
ceftolozane, a component of the antibiotic ZERBAXA® (ceftolozane 
and tazobactam).
In 2020, we were recognized for the discovery of a catalyst that 
improved the process used to produce certain antiviral drugs used for 
the treatment of diseases including hepatitis C and HIV, by reducing 
the PMI by 87 percent and eliminating the use of toxic reagents. 
Since the establishment of the annual Green Chemistry Challenge 
Awards in 1996, we have been the only pharmaceutical company to  
be recognized with seven Green Chemistry Awards for innovative  
process improvements.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 87
 Overview
Energy
GRI 302 Management	approach
As a global biopharmaceutical company, we recognize the important 
role we play in identifying, adapting and responding to the public health 
risks associated with climate change, such as threats to clean air and 
water, insufficient food supplies and the spread of disease. We believe 
our long-standing support of stronger health systems in underserved 
areas is even more important given the evidence that certain disease 
patterns are associated with changing climate conditions.
Our Energy Management Standard requires responsible and efficient 
energy management and associated greenhouse gas (GHG)  
emission reductions. 
Energy-demand reduction and efficiency will always be part of our 
energy management strategy and will positively impact our efforts to 
reduce our global footprint. 
Utilization of renewable energy is a growing expectation of industry. 
The advancements in renewable technology, incentives through 
legislation and comparison with conventional technology and  
fuel prices have grown the industry and created a robust renewable 
energy market.
Programs and initiatives
We have made it a priority to reduce our demand for energy and 
have established internal policies and practices focused on reducing 
energy use at our sites and minimizing GHG generation throughout 
the company. By taking these steps, we are not only minimizing GHG 
emissions, but also reducing our operating costs and mitigating the 
business impacts expected to be associated with future climate  
change requirements.
Energy-efficiency and demand-reduction projects will continue to 
contribute to reducing both our energy consumption and direct 
GHG emissions. In addition, we will continue to optimize systems, 
consolidate excess facility space when possible and utilize renewable 
energy sources.Our company has launched initiatives around the world to improve energy 
use, reduce GHG emissions from our operations and understand our supply 
chain-related impacts.
Our Global Energy & Sustainability Center of Excellence (CoE) identifies, 
shares and standardizes best practices and prioritizes the funding of energy 
projects to reduce energy use across the company. Our manufacturing 
facilities, warehouses, laboratories, offices and vehicle fleet are the primary 
targets of our energy-demand-reduction programs, as they represent the 
majority of our energy consumption.
In 2020, our company’s Energy Capital fund became the Sustainability 
Capital Fund, expanding the scope of the funds to water and waste 
projects. It is used exclusively for sustainability projects at sites around 
the world that bring long-term value to the company and focus on carbon 
footprint, water use and solid waste reduction. The fund allocates up to  
$12 million per year to adopt low carbon technology, better positions  
the company to respond to climate change and supports a more  
circular economy.
Since 2015, our sites have completed more than 95 projects through 
the Sustainability Capital Fund. This has saved over $9 million per year, 
averaging a payback of about three and a half years and avoiding the 
production of 50,000 metric tons of carbon per year.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
88
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Facilities
We continuously strive to make our facilities energy-efficient. Our 
Global Energy & Sustainability CoE has created an “energy road map” 
to help our facilities reduce energy demand and associated GHG 
emissions. The energy road map’s foundation includes large-scale 
metering and monitoring to assess and identify opportunities for 
continuous improvement. As facility energy management programs 
mature, energy savings are sought by improving the reliability of the 
equipment, the efficient operation of utility systems and building 
efficiencies into systems design.
We have also created a Low Carbon Transition Playbook (LCTP).  
The LCTP was a result of a cross-functional company effort that  
pulled together experts into a “design-thinking” workshop organized  
to develop strategies to reduce GHG emissions throughout the  
company. The LCTP includes a gap assessment for sites to evaluate  
the maturity of their energy programs and helps create short- and  
long-term plans to reduce sites’ carbon intensity and build toward a  
carbon-neutral future. 
All our new facilities are required to comply with our Energy Design 
Guide and Energy Conservation Planner. If we purchase a facility, it 
is evaluated for energy efficiency and assessed against our energy 
scorecard as part of its integration into our company.
All new laboratories, offices and major renovations are built following 
cost-effective and energy-efficient practices and are designed to meet 
Energy Efficient Design (EED) Management, Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED), or a comparable country standard (e.g. 
BREEAM, EXEED, HQE, etc.). Offices and laboratories are expected to 
achieve LEED Gold certification, at a minimum. 
• Our China Head Office is certified as LEED Gold
• Our new South San Francisco, CA, office was certified LEED Gold in 
2020, and is pursuing WELL Building Standard certification
• An operations support facility at our facility in Durham, North 
Carolina, is certified as LEED Silver
• Our lab in Carlow, Ireland, received both LEED Gold and Excellence in 
Energy Efficiency Design (EXEED) certification in 2019
• Development labs in both New Jersey and Pennsylvania are pursuing 
LEED Silver certification
• Two sites, one in New Jersey and one in Virginia, have received LEED 
Campus certificationWe require our facilities to have a plan to manage their energy use. 
Examples of these plans and resources include:
• 11 European sites have maintained and/or achieved their certification 
of ISO50001:2018 for energy management to comply with the EU 
Energy Efficiency Directive audit requirements 
• The EU Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) Phase Two compliance 
assessment was completed for all entities in the EU Region and all 
qualifying sites are undertaking energy audits to ensure compliance
• Our Global Energy & Sustainability CoE has provided tools for 
facility managers to identify opportunities to reduce energy use 
and eliminate waste. These tools include facility-wide, three-day 
Energy Treasure Hunts, half-day utility-system assessments (Energy 
Kaizens), and online Energy Treasure Hunts, which allow for best-
practice sharing 
• All our employees have access to a training curriculum that allows 
them to learn more about energy management and energy 
systems. Through this program, employees can earn an Energy 
Manager Certification. Site energy managers from more than 70 of 
our facilities are expected to complete the basic energy efficiency 
training curriculum
Work practices and recognition
Our company takes advantage of technological advances to save 
energy, time and money while also reducing emissions. 
The strategies we employ include:
• Site energy use is tracked monthly by our Global Energy & 
Sustainability CoE through a centralized system. A global energy 
scorecard is issued monthly, and sites receive a letter grade based on 
an internal assessment of their energy intensity and performance. 
Our companywide average score has consistently been a top-level 
grade of “A-”.
• A rollout of Energy Utility Analytics Technology for multiple sites 
that will enable continuous commissioning, energy efficiency 
improvements and reliability of assets.
• The development of an energy management strategy that seeks to 
achieve energy savings through continuous improvement, reliability, 
operations and design. 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 89
 Overview
• A rail-travel option is included in our online business-travel booking 
tool to make it easier to travel by train when appropriate. Train travel 
has a smaller carbon footprint than traveling by either airplane or 
personal vehicle.
We worked with our three largest long-range freight carriers, and even 
though the amount of material shipped by weight was about the same 
in 2020 vs. 2019, our transportation-related GHG emissions intensity 
decreased by shipment consolidation and by shifting away from air 
freight to ocean and overland ground freight whenever practical. 
The winning projects included:
• A multi-year project that optimized a site’s chiller plant in the U.S. 
In addition to energy and financial savings, this site's effort helped 
create a cultural change among the operations team. 
• A growing site commissioned state-of-the-art HVAC units and 
increased the efficiency of the older units. Efficiencies were gained 
through modified air change rates and the installation of efficient 
AHU fans. 
• Replacement of four HVAC refrigerators that utilize R134A and 
R404A gas with three air-cooled ammonia chillers.
Renewable energy
As part of our new climate goals announced in 2021, we are 
accelerating by 15 years our previous 2040 goal to 2025 of sourcing 
100 percent renewable energy such as solar and wind for purchased 
electricity (Scope 2). Photovoltaic arrays, wind turbines and other 
renewable-energy installations avoid emissions, help reduce energy-
demand peaks and postpone or preclude adding new power plants.
We continually analyze our sites to look for opportunities for new 
onsite installations, power-purchase contracts, vendor-supplied 
renewable energy through the electrical grid and VPPA projects.
Several sites have incorporated renewable energy installations over the 
past several years. 
In 2020, a new solar array was installed at one of our offices in Australia 
and our Singapore operations began the construction of solar arrays 
across several sites. Our company recently signed three virtual power purchase agreements 
(VPPAs) for utility-scale energy projects based in Texas and Spain. 
These projects will address approximately 35 percent of our company’s 
Scope 2 emissions by collectively adding 145 megawatts (MW) of solar 
and wind energy to the grid. These agreements follow a 2018 U.S.  
wind VPPA, which has added 60 MW of new renewable energy 
capacity, while providing our company with the associated renewable  
energy credits. 
Vehicle fleet
Approximately nine percent of our total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are 
associated with our vehicle fleet. We calculate our fleet’s GHG emissions 
based on estimated fuel economy and actual total miles driven.
• In an ongoing effort to improve fuel efficiency, we have converted 
our U.S. sales fleet from cars with six-cylinder engines to cars with 
four-cylinder engines, replaced eight-cylinder-engine trucks with 
six-cylinder-engine trucks and introduced an all-wheel-drive (AWD) 
sedan option to replace AWD sport utility vehicles. This has resulted 
in fuel efficiency improvements from an average of 22 miles per 
gallon (mpg) in 2008 to an average of 27 mpg in 2020.
• 40 percent of our U.S. fleet are now partial-zero-emission vehicles 
(PZEV), and we are expanding our use of hybrid vehicles.
• Our European fleet continued to convert to the use of more fuel-
efficient vehicles, including the availability of electric or hybrid 
vehicles being offered in over 50 percent of the markets.
• Over 50 percent of the vehicles being utilized in our Asia/Pacific 
markets are hybrids.
• We have started to introduce hybrid vehicles in Mexico and Peru and 
flex fuel vehicles are now being used in Brazil.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
90
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 302-1Energy	consumption	within	the	organization	 
(Scopes	1+2)
GRI 302-4 Energy	reductions
Total energy use 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Total energy use (GJ) 20,913,432 19,418,800 19,313,900 18,674,800 18,033,385
Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 energy use (% of total)12016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Natural gas (Scope 1) 61% 60% 63% 63% 65%
Purchased electricity (Scope 2)2,323% 23% 23% 24% 24%
Fleet fuel (Scope 1) 12% 13% 10% 9% 7%
Fuel oil (Scope 1) 1% 2% 2% 2% 2%
Purchased steam (Scope 2) 2% 2% 2% 2% 2%
Bio-Fuel (Scope 1) 0.4% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.7%
Renewable energy generated and used onsite (Scope 1)40.04% 0.04% 0.05% 0.05% 0.05%
Spent solvents (Scope 1 ) 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Coal (Scope 1) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
			Note:	We	have	defined	“purchased	electricity”	as	electricity	sourced	from	external	suppliers	as	well	as	renewable	electricity	that	was	generated	and	utilized	onsite	where	we	retained	the	 
renewable	attributes	or	where	we	have	obtained	renewable	attributes	through	contract.	GHG	figures	have	been	changed	from	our	2019/2020	report,	due	to	a	collection	methodology	
update	since	our	last	report.
1	May	not	add	to	100	percent	due	to	rounding.
2	Reported	using	Scope	2	location-based	value	in	accordance	with	the	Greenhouse	Gas	Protocol.	
3		Includes	solar,	wind	and	other	renewables	generated	onsite	where	renewable	energy	credits	(RECs)	have	been	sold.
4		Includes	solar,	wind	and	other	renewables	generated	onsite	where	renewable	energy	credits	or	guarantees	of	origin	have	been	retained	or	retired.
				ERM	conducted	an	independent	third-party	review	of	our	2020	greenhouse	gas	and	water	inventories	and	provided	limited	assurance	for	the	data	that	we	submit	to	CDP	and	for	inclusion	in	
this	report.	To	view	ERM’s	limited	assurance	letter	for	our	environmental	data,	please	visit	the	Resources	link	on	the	Responsibility	page	of	our	corporate	website.	The	verification	standard	
used	is	ISO14064-3.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 91
 Overview
Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 energy use (% of total)12016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Natural gas (Scope 1) 61% 59% 62% 62% 63%
Purchased electricity (Scope 2)2,323% 22% 20% 18% 15%
Fleet fuel (Scope 1) 12% 12% 10% 9% 7%
Fuel oil (Scope 1) 2% 2% 2% 2% 1.8%
Purchased steam (Scope 2) 2% 3% 3% 3% 3%
Bio-Fuel (Scope 1) 0.4% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.7%
Renewable energy generated and used onsite (Scope 1)40.3% 1.1% 3.1% 6.0% 9.1%
Spent solvents (Scope 1 ) 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Coal (Scope 1) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
1 May	not	add	to	100	percent	due	to	rounding.
2	Reported	using	Scope	2	location-based	value	in	accordance	with	the	Greenhouse	Gas	Protocol.	
3 Includes	solar,	wind	and	other	renewables	generated	onsite	where	renewable	energy	credits	(RECs)	have	been	sold.	
4 Includes	solar,	wind	and	other	renewables	generated	onsite	where	renewable	energy	credits	or	guarantees	of	origin	have	been	retained	or	retired.
				ERM	conducted	an	independent	third-party	review	of	our	2020	greenhouse	gas	and	water	inventories	and	provided	limited	assurance	for	the	data	that	we	submit	to	CDP	and	for	inclusion	in	
this	report.	To	view	ERM’s	limited	assurance	letter	for	our	environmental	data,	please	visit	the	ESG	Resources	page	of	our	corporate	website.	The	verification	standard	used	is	ISO14064-3.
In 2020, our purchased electricity consumption decreased due to 
energy efficiency projects, an increase in renewable energy utilization 
and a temporary shutdown of office spaces in response to COVID-19. 
Our fleet’s fuel usage continued to decrease as well. 
In March 2021, the U.S. EPA again recognized our company with our 
14th consecutive Sustained Excellence Award. This is also the 16th 
consecutive year in which we have been recognized by ENERGY STAR 
for excellence in energy management.
In 2020, our company continued to successfully use ENERGY STAR 
benchmarking tools such as the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager  
to obtain the ENERGY STAR Certified Building label for four  
buildings including:• A data center in New Jersey that obtained a perfect score of 100 
• A research office in Pennsylvania for the 9th consecutive year 
• Two office buildings in Pennsylvania and New Jersey for the 2nd 
consecutive year
Our Puerto Rico facility was awarded the ENERGY STAR Pharma 
Energy Performance Indicator (EPI) for superior energy efficiency 
and environmental performance among U.S. pharmaceutical 
manufacturing plants for the 12th consecutive year. 
 For more information, please see GRI 305-5 on page 102.  
A link to our CDP Climate Change Questionnaire is available on  
the ESG Resources page of our corporate website.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
92
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Water
GRI 303 Management	approach
As we strive to meet the health needs of our patients, we are 
increasingly operating in regions of the world where access to 
clean water and proper sanitation is under great pressure. Even in 
established markets, our business faces water-related risks.
Our global water strategy aims to achieve sustainable water 
management within our operations and our supply chain, which 
supports UN SDG 6, “Clean Water and Sanitation.” To achieve these 
strategic objectives, we are focusing on the following commitments:
• Ensuring that our wastewater discharges comply with local and 
national standards, as well as internal company requirements
We	have	established	water	goals	to	help	us	manage	water-related	risks 	 
in	our	operations	and	supply	chain:
Internal 
operations 
By	2020,	we	will 	
develop	water 	
conservation	plans 	 
for	sites	in	“high 	 
water	risk”	locations.
AchievedSupply chain 
We	will	collect 	 
water	use	data	from 	
at	least	90%	of	our 	
strategic	suppliers 	
with	the	highest 	
environmental 
impact.
—
GHG	and	water 	
data	collected	from 	
96%	of	high-impact 	
strategic	suppliers.
AchievedInternal 
operations 
By	2025,	we	will 	
maintain	global 	
water	use	at	or 	
below	2015	levels.
— 
3.6	million	m3  
below	2015	levels 	
(14%	reduction).
On trackSupply chain 
By	2020,	we	will 	
engage	with	those 	
suppliers	and 	
request	them	to 	
identify	water 	
use	reduction 	
opportunities.
AchievedSupply chain 
By	2025,	at 	
least	90%	of	our 	
strategic	suppliers 	
with	the	highest 	
environmental 
impacts	will	set 	
their	own	water	use 	
reduction	targets.
On track• Understanding and controlling our operational water footprint
• Managing water risk at our facilities and in our supply chain
• Reporting publicly on our water use and goals
For the past four years, we have conducted supplier sustainability 
surveys using the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) 
Survey. In 2020, the survey was sent to approximately 113 of our 
strategic suppliers, with a 96 percent response rate. Through this 
engagement suppliers were requested to identify water use reduction 
opportunities and goals.
We are on track for our 2025 supplier goal, as 45 percent of high 
impact suppliers have water use reduction targets.
 For further information on supplier environmental assessments, 
please see GRI 308 on page 116.
Progress: Progress: Progress: Progress: Progress: 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 93
 Overview
Governance
Water management is overseen globally by the Water Center of 
Excellence (CoE). This CoE reviews water data to monitor sites’ 
progress, and provides assistance as needed to support sites’ work 
towards meeting these goals. The Environmental Review Committee 
provides oversight in establishing our internal Environmental Quality 
Criteria (EQC) standards.
Each site is responsible for management of water resources. In many 
cases, the Water CoE partners with sites and provides assistance in 
working toward meeting the corporate water goal.
In 2020, our Energy Capital fund became the Sustainability Capital 
Fund, expanding the scope of the fund to water and waste projects. It 
is used exclusively for sustainability projects at sites around the world 
that have the potential to bring long-term value to the company and 
focus on carbon footprint, water use and solid waste reduction. The 
fund allocates up to $12 million per year, which allows us to adopt low 
carbon technology, better positions the company to respond to climate 
change and supports a more circular economy. In 2020, we allocated 
approximately $400,000 to water projects. The completed projects will 
result in $148,000 in annual savings.
 For more detailed information on our environmental management 
and governance, please see GRI 307 on page 110 .
Stewardship
We have endorsed the UN CEO Water Mandate, a public commitment 
to adopt and implement a comprehensive approach to water 
management, and we have aligned our water program with  
its principles.
CEO Water Mandate endorsers have a responsibility to make water-
resource management a priority and to work with governments, 
UN agencies, NGOs, local communities and other interested parties 
to address global water challenges. We are working to identify 
partnerships that will help us advance our water stewardship priorities 
in the areas in which we operate. These projects also support the goals 
of SDG 15, which strives to “protect, restore and promote sustainable 
use of terrestrial ecosystems.”We report our water security annually through CDP. In 2020, CDP 
graded our disclosure with a B “management” rating, indicating that 
we “provide evidence of actions associated with good environmental 
management”, and are “taking coordinated action on water security.”
In 2020, we supported the Keystone 10 Million Tree Partnership 
project with funding for 100,000 trees through the organization One 
Tree Planted. This project is focused on planting trees in Pennsylvania 
to help protect the Chesapeake Bay. Over the years, the Chesapeake 
Bay has suffered degradation due to development and changing sea 
levels, as well as pollution. Planting trees will restore degraded areas 
as well as assist in the restoration and filtration of this sensitive water 
system. Planting of trees upstream of the bay in Pennsylvania will 
result in improvements in biodiversity, reduce pollution and benefit the 
local community. Our site located in Riverside, Pennsylvania, is within 
the Chesapeake Bay catchment.
Our 2019 contribution of $100,000 to the Nature Conservancy’s 
(TNC) Mantiqueira Restoration Fund near our Cruzeiro, Brazil, site 
enabled TNC to work with landowners and other decision-makers to 
advance policies and improve the economic benefits of restoration and 
ecosystem services. TNC developed the science, innovative tools and 
monitoring systems needed to guide restoration efforts. TNC has also 
strengthened local capacity for implementing restoration. 
Key measures of success of the project were:
• Engagement with 200 landowners on restoration 
• Development of municipal programs to support restoration
• Leveraging financial support for landowners for restoration
• Municipal staff trained on writing restoration projects 
• Creation and development of the Mantiqueira Portal, a website that 
gathers data about rural properties that have been partially restored
• Creation of a regional database
• Diversification of restoration methods in the Cruzeiro  
Demonstration Unit
• Formalization of the Paraíba Valley Agroforestry Network
• Support of forest products
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
94
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 303-1 Water	as	a	shared	resource
Access to clean water is critical for human health and is a key input to 
our manufacturing operations. 
In establishing our public water risk goal, we focused on the sites most 
critical to our operations—those with high water use (i.e. greater than 
100,000 m3  annually) that were located in areas considered to be of 
high risk after assessment. These are our “priority” sites.
We use the World Resources Institute’s (WRI’s) Aqueduct Water Risk 
Atlas tool as an initial step to measure and map our water risks. Sites 
are categorized using the “Baseline Water Stress” indicator, which is 
the ratio of total annual water withdrawals to total available annual 
renewable supply, and accounts for up-stream consumptive use. 
Higher-stress values indicate more competition among water users. 
In 2020, the WRI Aqueduct tool identified five of our manufacturing 
and/or research facilities being in areas with “extremely high” and nine 
in areas with “high” Baseline Water Stress. High water-use sites (i.e. 
greater than 100,000 m3  annually) were assessed further through a 
study with WRI, which provided information on the steps and data 
required to assess exposure to water-related business risks around 
selected catchments and facilities. Sites were deprioritized when 
results of the detailed catchment-specific studies with WRI indicated 
lesser risk than was indicated by the Aqueduct tool. 
This exercise enabled us to better prioritize facilities and catchments 
for water stewardship activities and lay the foundation for potential 
future water targets in priority locations. Globally, two priority sites 
have been identified through this methodology and have water 
conservation plans in place. We work with a third-party water use 
expert to evaluate opportunities for water use reductions at priority 
sites, resulting in site-specific water management plans. 
Existing and acquired sites will continue to be monitored for risk 
according to the established methodology as general practice. Sites 
with a rating of “high” or “extremely high” risk and water withdrawal 
of less than 100,000 m3  will also be further assessed and water 
management plans will be put in place as needed.
The facilities that use the most water in our network are U.S.-based. 
Of these, two are in areas of “high” Baseline Water Stress according to 
the Aqueduct tool but were identified as only medium risk based on the 
results of WRI deep-data dive water risk assessment. GRI 303-2 Water	discharge-related	impacts	
We conduct environmental risk assessments on our products (small 
molecules, biologics and vaccines), from the development phase 
through product launch, to understand and manage product impacts 
both from manufacturing and patient use. We assess products 
in a manner consistent with the most stringent applicable global 
regulations, including the regulatory review processes of the  
U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines 
Agency . Product environmental safety profiles are reassessed during 
periodic renewals of product filings, and risk-mitigation actions  
are implemented when needed.
We use the information from our risk assessments to establish or 
update our internal, compound-specific Environmental Quality Criteria 
(EQCs), which are used to confirm that wastewaters discharged from 
our facilities do not contain levels of residual products that present 
a risk to human health or the environment. Our manufacturing 
facilities are required to use these EQCs, along with industry-accepted 
risk-assessment methods, to establish procedures for managing 
and controlling active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) in their 
wastewater. Each facility uses the internal EQC standards to:
• Assess the potential risk from its operations using science-based  
and industry-accepted risk assessment methods
• Minimize environmental impacts from wastewater discharges in the 
local watershed
• Establish procedures for managing, treating or controlling APIs in 
wastewater prior to discharge where needed
Our production facilities have, or will be provided with, API-treatment 
technology such as advanced oxidation where needed, so that our 
wastewater discharges meet both regulatory requirements and these 
internal standards. 
We also provide EQC information to suppliers that manufacture 
pharmaceutical compounds for us and have initiated detailed 
assessments of our suppliers to better understand and address 
potential impacts.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 95
 Overview
GRI 303-3 Water	withdrawal
Water use by source (million m3 )12015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Groundwater 12.3 10.4 10.2 10.5 10.4 10.3
Purchased water 7.7 7.1 6.7 7.7 7.4 7.3
Surface water 3.9 3.2 2.7 2.4 2.7 2.9
Total223.9 20.7 19.7 20.6 20.4 20.5
1		In	accordance	with	the	Greenhouse	Gas	Protocol,	prior-year	data	have	been	adjusted	to	add	or	remove	facilities	that	have	been	acquired	and	sold.	Adjustments	also	reflect	changes	 
in	methodology	to	ensure	consistency	from	year	to	year.
2 All	values	above	are	rounded	to	one	decimal	place.	As	a	result,	the	total	values	shown	may	not	equal	the	sum	of	the	individual	source	totals.	
			ERM	conducted	an	independent	third-party	review	of	our	2020	greenhouse	gas	and	water	inventories	and	provided	limited	assurance	for	the	data	that	we	submit	to	CDP	and	for	inclusion	in	
this	report.	To	view	ERM’s	limited	assurance	letter	for	our	environmental	data,	please	visit	the	Resources	link	on	the	Responsibility	page	of	our	corporate	website.	The	verification	standard	
used	is	ISO14064-3.In addition, as a member of the Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) 
Industry Alliance and signatory to the Industry Roadmap for Progress 
on Combating AMR, we are working to deliver on our commitments 
to reduce the environmental impacts from antibiotic residues in 
wastewater through implementation of the AMR Alliance Common 
Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework. We have reviewed the 
operations of our human health antibiotic chemical synthesis facilities 
and third-party human health antibiotic suppliers to assess their 
wastewater treatment controls and have recommended improvements 
where needed, which we will follow through to completion. We 
have developed a mechanism for transparently demonstrating that 
our supply chains meet the standards in this framework, which is 
presented in the AMR Industry Alliance 2020 Progress Report.
We participate in efforts to address water discharge related impacts 
with various organizations, including the European Federation 
of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and the 
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and 
Associations (IFPMA). The EFPIA, Medicines for Europe and the 
Association of the European Self-Medication Industry (AESGP)  have worked together to develop the Eco-Pharmaco-Stewardship 
(EPS) initiative. The EPS initiative considers the environmental impacts 
of a medicine throughout its entire life cycle and addresses the roles 
and responsibilities of all parties in managing those impacts. This 
includes public services, the pharmaceutical industry, environmental 
experts, doctors, pharmacists and patients.
 For more information on our supply chain, please see section GRI 
102-9 on page 29 .
Please refer to the following resources for additional information 
related to water related discharge impacts on the ESG Resources page  
of our corporate website:
• Public Policy Statement: Water Stewardship
• Public Policy Statement: Pharmaceuticals in the Environment
• Global Antimicrobial Resistance Action Plan  
• CDP-Water Security 2020
• Business Partner Code of Conduct   
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
96
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Water use and risk by 
region (million m3)Extremely 
high HighMed to 
highLow to 
med Low N/A % of Total Total
North America 0.00 2.28 2.98 10.17 0.29 0.05 77% 15.77
Europe, Middle East 
and Africa0.16 0.83 0.11 0.33 1.35 0.22 15% 2.99
Asia Pacific 0.02 0.00 0.12 0.00 0.94 0.23 6% 1.31
Latin America 0.03 0.11 0.00 0.00 0.24 0.07 2% 0.45
Total 0.21 3.22 3.20 10.50 2.81 0.57 — 20.53 North America
77%
15%
2%6%Asia Pacific
Latin AmericaEurope, Middle East and Africa
Extremely high (1.0%)
High (15.7%)
Med to high (15.6%)
Low to med (51.1%)
Low (13.7%)Water use by risk in the following tables is categorized according to data obtained via the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas Tool.  
We understand that following further assessment site water-risk categorization could change. 
 For information on our water risk assessment approach, please see GRI 303-1 on page 95. 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 97
 Overview
In 2020, we used 20.5 million cubic meters of water globally, versus 
23.9 million cubic meters in 2015, representing a 14 percent reduction 
in water use.
Approximately 14 percent of the total water we used in 2020 was 
supplied from surface water sources, and 50 percent was supplied by 
groundwater water sources, with the balance sourced from municipal 
water supplies.
Our sites employ a variety of technologies and techniques aimed at 
reducing our water footprint and improving operational performance. 
Closed-loop cooling systems, which reduce freshwater use, are 
employed at many of our facilities worldwide. Reverse osmosis (RO) 
“reject water” is reused for non-potable and non-process applications 
such as cooling tower feed water. In all, 1.1 million cubic meters of water 
was recovered, reused or recycled at our facilities in 2020, which is 
equivalent to five percent of our total water use.Our water-use-reduction initiatives include:
• Consideration of water use in process design
• Cooling-system optimization
• Prompt repairs and maintenance of steam-distribution systems  
and traps
• Recovery and reuse of steam condensate and “reject water”
• Process-water purification system optimization
• Avoiding the use of water in mechanical seals, such as  
those in pumps
  For information on the specific water sources affected in areas 
experiencing high and extremely-high water risk, please see our CDP 
Water Security response. For our water assurance letter, please visit the 
ESG Resources page on our corporate website.Water use in areas of high to 
extremely high water risk by region 
(million m3) Groundwater Surface Water Purchased Water Total1
North America 0.41 0.00 1.87 2.28
Europe, Middle East and Africa 0.23 0.00 0.76 0.99
Latin America 0.04 0.00 0.11 0.14
Asia Pacific 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.02
Total10.67 0.00 2.76 3.44
1		May	not	add	up	to	total	due	to	rounding.	
			Note:	ERM	conducted	an	independent	third-party	review	of	our	2020	greenhouse	gas	and	water	inventories	and	provided	limited	assurance	for	the	data	that	we	submit	to	CDP	and	for	in-
clusion	in	this	report.	To	view	ERM’s	limited	assurance	letter	for	our	environmental	data,	please	visit	the	Resources	link	on	the	Responsibility	page	of	our	corporate	website.	The	verification	
standard	used	is	ISO14064-3.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
98
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 303-4 Water	discharge
Total water discharge by region 
(million m3) Surface Water External Treatment Facilities Total1% of Total
North America 10.31 3.69 14.00 78%
Europe, Middle East and Africa 1.08 1.88 2.96 16%
Asia Pacific 0.07 0.70 0.77 4%
Latin America 0.00 0.33 0.33 2%
Total 11.46 6.58 18.05 100%
1	All	values	above	are	rounded.	As	a	result,	the	total	values	shown	are	not	equal	to	the	sum	of	the	individual	source	totals.
			ERM	conducted	an	independent	third-party	review	of	our	2020	greenhouse	gas	and	water	inventories	and	provided	limited	assurance	for	the	data	that	we	submit	to	CDP	and	for	inclusion	in	
this	report.	To	view	ERM’s	limited	assurance	letter	for	our	environmental	data,	please	visit	the	Resources	link	on	the	Responsibility	page	of	our	corporate	website.	The	verification	standard	
used	is	ISO14064-3.
Water discharge in areas of high to 
extremely high water risk, by region 
(million m3) Surface Water External Treatment Facilities Total
North America 0.49 1.51 2.00
Europe, Middle East and Africa 0.02 1.00 1.02
Asia Pacific 0.00 0.02 0.02
Latin America 0.00 0.11 0.11
Total 0.50 2.65 3.15
			Note:	All	values	above	are	rounded.	As	a	result,	the	total	values	shown	are	not	equal	to	the	sum	of	the	individual	source	totals.
			ERM	conducted	an	independent	third-party	review	of	our	2020	greenhouse	gas	and	water	inventories	and	provided	limited	assurance	for	the	data	that	we	submit	to	CDP	and	for	inclusion	in	
this	report.	To	view	ERM’s	limited	assurance	letter	for	our	environmental	data,	please	visit	the	Resources	link	on	the	Responsibility	page	of	our	corporate	website.	The	verification	standard	
used	is	ISO14064-3.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 99
 Overview
Wastewater from our facilities is managed and treated to meet 
regulatory standards and minimize environmental impacts prior to 
discharge. On-site wastewater treatment facilities are operated at 
many of our production and research facilities. Where on-site treatment 
is not provided, wastewater is discharged to local municipal wastewater 
treatment facilities that have the technology and capacity to treat our 
wastewater. As a company, we currently do not differentiate discharges 
to freshwater and seawater in our enterprise system. The majority of 
our facilities discharge to freshwater environments.
As described in GRI 303-2, many of our production facilities are 
equipped with advanced wastewater treatment technologies to ensure 
that our facilities meet both regulatory requirements and the internal 
standards required by our EQC Program.Emissions
GRI 305 Management	approach
Scientific data support that climate change is occurring, and we are 
taking action to reduce the economic and public health risks associated 
with a changing climate.
We have adopted a set of environmental sustainability goals to 
help position our company to succeed in an increasingly resource-
constrained world. These were developed to address the rising 
expectations of our customers, investors, external stakeholders and 
employees regarding the environmental impact of our operations and 
supply chain.
We have made progress on these goals and remain on track to achieve 
them. We continue to find ways to decrease energy demand and 
have increased the amount of renewable energy we purchase. Our 
procurement team is engaging our strategic suppliers in our efforts  
to reduce the environmental footprint outside of our operations.
GHG emissions Renewable	energy
Goals: 
Reduce	Scopes	1	&	2	GHG	emissions	46%, 	 
and	Scope	3	emissions	30%,	by	2030	from 	 
a	2019	baseline.Goal: 
By	2025,	100%	of	our	purchased	electricity	will 	
come	from	renewable	sources.
On Track: 8% reduction in Scopes 1 & 2 GHG emissions On Track: 37.7% of our purchased electricity comes  
from renewablesProgress: Progress: 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
100
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Goal: 
We	will	collect	GHG	data	from 	
at	least	90%	of	our	strategic 	
suppliers	with	the	highest 	
environmental	impact.
Achieved
Goal: 
By	2025,	at	least	90%	of	our 	
strategic	suppliers	with	the 	
highest	environmental	impacts 	
will	set	their	own	GHG	emission 	
reduction	targets.
On Track
Goal: 
By	2020,	we	will	engage	with 	
those	suppliers	and	request 	
them	to	identify	GHG	emission 	
reduction	opportunities.
AchievedProgress: Progress: Progress: 
The World Resource Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines  
Scope 1 GHG emissions as emissions from owned or controlled sources 
such as onsite fuel combustion and fleet vehicles. Scope 2 emissions 
are those from indirect sources such as purchased electricity. Scope 3 
includes indirect emissions in a company’s value chain.
For the past four years, we have conducted a supplier sustainability 
survey through the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI). 
In 2020, the survey was sent to approximately 113 of our strategic 
suppliers, with a 96 percent response rate. Through this engagement 
suppliers were requested to identify GHG reduction opportunities  
and goals.
We are on track to achieve our 2025 supplier goal as 52 percent of our 
high impact suppliers currently have GHG emission reduction targets.
In 2021, we committed to becoming carbon neutral across our 
operations (Scopes 1 & 2) by 2025, to reducing our Scopes 1 & 2 GHG 
emissions 46 percent by 2030 from a 2019 baseline (including biogenic 
emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks), and to reducing 
our value chain (Scope 3) GHG emissions by 30 percent by 2030. We 
will achieve carbon neutrality in our operations with ongoing innovation 
to increase energy efficiency, applying sustainable building standards 
and continuing to transition away from fossil fuel use. Remaining Scope 
1 emissions will be balanced each year by investing in high-quality 
carbon offsets, including carbon removal offsets. These goals expand GHG	emissions	(additional)
our company’s current actions, and complement our new Scopes 1 & 2 
science-based emission target which was determined to be in line with 
the 1.5º C trajectory by the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi). 
As part of our new goals, we are also accelerating by 15 years our 
previous 2040 goal of sourcing 100 percent renewable energy such as 
solar and wind for purchased electricity (Scope 2).
Governance
Our climate strategy is overseen by our Environmental Sustainability 
Center of Excellence (CoE) in partnership with our Global Energy & 
Sustainability CoE and Energy Procurement CoE. The CoEs review and 
report data, monitor progress, and provide assistance as needed, to 
support sites’ work towards meeting our goals and review possible 
above-site renewable energy projects.
Each site is responsible for the management of their energy use. In 
many cases, our company partners with our third-party Integrated 
Facility Management (IFM) providers to manage energy use and work 
toward achieving the corporate goals.
 For information regarding our environmental management and 
governance, please see GRI 307 on page 110 .
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 101
 Overview
GRI 305-1 Direct	GHG	emissions	(Scope	1)
GRI 305-2 Indirect	GHG	emissions	(Scope	2)
GRI 305-3 Other	indirect	GHG	emissions	(Scope	3)
GRI 305-4 GHG	emissions	intensity
GRI 305-5 Reduction	of	GHG	emissions
Total GHGs (MT CO2e)12015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Scope 1 869,200 861,500 806,200 800,000 799,000 738,400
Scope 2 location-based 548,200 503,600 458,100 433,000 413,800 392,400
Scope 2 market-based 586,300 536,500 473,000 399,300 318,400 255,400
Total GHGs (Scope 1 & 2 market-based) 1,455,500 1,398,000 1,279,200 1,198,300 1,077,100 993,800
Scope 3 GHGs 5,586,300 7,975,100 6,586,100 6,239,800 6,965,600 7,103,450
GHG intensity221.4 20.6 18.5 17.4 15.2 13.4
			Note:	ERM	conducted	an	independent	third-party	review	of	our	2020	greenhouse	gas	and	water	inventories	and	provided	limited	assurance	for	the	data	that	we	submit	to	CDP	and	for	inclusion	
in	this	report.	To	view	ERM’s	limited	assurance	letter	for	our	environmental	data,	please	visit	the	Resources	link	on	the	Responsibility	page	of	our	corporate	website.	The	verification	standard	
used	is	ISO14064-3.
1		In	accordance	with	the	Greenhouse	Gas	Protocol,	prior-year	data	have	been	adjusted	to	add	or	remove	facilities	that	have	been	acquired	and	sold.	Adjustments	also	reflect	changes	in	
methodology	to	ensure	consistency	from	year	to	year.
2   Total	Scope	1	&	Scope	2	market-based	metric	tons	CO2e	per	employee.
GHG Emissions in 2020
Scope 1: 738,400	MT	CO2e
Scope 2 (market-based): 255,400	MT	CO2e
Scope 3: 7,103,450	MT	CO2e
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
102
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Scope 3 GHGs details (MT CO2e)12015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Purchased goods and services1 3,864,900 6,204,000 4,997,600 4,595,600 5,155,100 5,403,700
Capital goods1 112,700 224,000 192,900 229,200 339,900 470,200
GHG emissions from fuel and energy-related 
activities not included in Scopes 1 & 22, 3276,200 304,500 262,100 243,400 240,700 203,250
Upstream transportation and distribution1 222,200 255,500 267,100 274,100 271,200 263,100
Waste generated in operations  
(excluding recycled & composted waste)4, 5 20,600 16,800 16,000 18,200 19,500 22,000
GHG emissions related to employee  
business travel6, 7 283,300 265,400 218,200 301,100 340,400 217,100
Employee commuting8 302,400 301,500 262,200 264,400 272,000 127,600
Downstream transportation and distribution9 211,000 118,000 121,900 120,800 133,200 145,100
GHG emissions from use of sold products10 255,000 248,400 205,800 148,100 142,100 205,500
End-of-life treatment of sold products11 38,000 37,000 42,200 44,900 51,500 45,900
Total125,586,300 7,975,100 6,586,100 6,239,800 6,965,600 7,103,450
			Note:	Limited	Data	Assurance	was	granted	for	emissions	calculated	from	primary	travel	vendor	data	and	employee	reimbursable	travel	mileage	data.	The	total	reported	here	includes	non-			
primary	travel	vendor	data	emissions	which	were	based	on	our	2020	third-party	spend	data	and	an	Economic	Input-Output	Model	performed	by	Climate	Earth,	Inc.
1 Based	on	third-party	spend	data	and	an	economic	input-output	model	performed	by	Climate	Earth,	Inc.
2	Emission	factors	from	Argonne	National	Laboratory’s	GREET	Model	(https://greet.es.anl.gov/)	were	used	in	conjunction	with	primary	fuel	and	energy-use	data.
3 Data	as	reported	historically,	not	baseline	adjusted.
4	Primary-waste	data	were	used	with	the	U.S.	EPA’s	WARM	Model	(https://www.epa.gov/warm).
5		Including	recycled	and	composted	waste	in	these	calculations,	would	result	in	negative	emissions	in),	2015	(-40,200	MT	CO₂e),	2016	(-60,200	MT	CO₂e),	2017	(-41,200	MT	CO₂e),	2018	
(-43,700	MT	CO₂e),	2019	(-62,400)	and	2020	(-48,900	MT	CO₂e).
6  Based	on	primary	 travel	vendor	 data,	employee-reimbursable	 mileage	 and	United	 Kingdom	 Defra	factors	 (https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/government-conversion-factors-for-
company-reporting#conversion-factors-2015).
7 Emissions	are	based	on	primary	vendor	data	where	available	and	economic	input-output	modelling	performed	by	Climate	Earth,	Inc.,	using	spend	data.
8 2020	reduction	caused	by	shift	to	remote	working	due	to	COVID-19.
9		Emissions	were	calculated	using	our	“Upstream	transportation	and	distribution”	spend	data	as	a	worst-case	estimate	entered	into	the	WRI	Quantis	tool.	We	assumed	that	all	“downstream”	
material	would	first	have	been	stored,	transported	and	handled	“upstream.”
10  Assumes	that	all	HFC-containing	devices	shipped	for	sale	were	consumed.	The	amount	and	identity	of	HFC	in	each	product	is	calculated	and	multiplied	by	the	appropriate	global	warming	
potential	(GWP)	to	determine	the	CO₂e	released	as	a	result	of	product	use.
11	Calculated	assuming	that	all	primary,	secondary	and	tertiary	packaging	purchased	was	disposed	of	by	our	customers.	Packaging	material	data	was	used	with	the	U.S.	EPA’s	WARM	Model.
12		May	not	add	up	to	total	due	to	rounding.
	 				ERM	conducted	an	independent	third-party	review	of	our	2020	greenhouse	gas	and	water	inventories	and	provided	limited	assurance	for	the	data	that	we	submit	to	CDP	and	for	inclusion	in	
this	report.	To	view	ERM’s	limited	assurance	letter	for	our	environmental	data,	please	visit	the	Resources	link	on	the	Responsibility	page	of	our	corporate	website.	The	verification	standard	
used	is	ISO14064-3.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 103
 Overview
Reduction of GHG emissions 
From 2019 to 2020, we reduced our year-over-year Scope 1 and  
Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions by eight percent due to our 
continued focus on energy efficiency and an increased utilization of 
renewable energy. Where possible, office buildings utilized energy set 
backs in response to the low occupancy due to COVID-19 protocols.
We have analyzed and reported our Scope 3 impacts using primary 
operating data, accepted emission factors and an economic input-
output model based on our third-party spend. In 2020, our Scope 3 
GHG emissions increased slightly as compared to 2019.  While our 
business travel decreased sharply due to the pandemic and many 
employees were able to work from home offices, we continued our 
manufacturing and research operations, as well as continued the 
execution of many on-going capital projects.
Our analysis shows that our Scope 3 GHG emissions impacts are nearly 
three times greater than our combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 
We are working to reduce those impacts through activities such as 
reducing waste in our operations, creating more sustainable packaging, 
and changing the way we commute to work and travel for business. We 
are also engaging with our strategic suppliers to identify ways to reduce 
GHG emissions in our supply chain. These actions not only reduce our 
environmental impact, but benefit the business by reducing costs.
We report our GHG emissions as required by regulations in certain 
countries and annually through CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure 
Project). In 2020, CDP graded our disclosure as a “B” or a rating of 
“management”, indicating that we are “taking coordinated action on 
climate issues.”
 For more information on our initiatives, policies and 
accomplishments, please see Section GRI-302 energy and the following 
resources on the ESG Resources page of our corporate website.
• Corporate Policy: Respect for Environmental Health  
and Safety (EHS) 
• Public Policy Position Statement: Climate Change
• Business Partner Code of Conduct GRI 305-6 Ozone-depleting	substances	(ODS)
GRI 305-7 NOx,	SOx	and	other	emissions
We are committed to controlling air emissions from our facilities to 
reduce local, regional and global environmental impacts.
Air emissions are generated by our manufacturing and research 
operations, as well as by burning fuel in on-site equipment and fleet 
vehicles. Our Air Management Standard requires our facilities to 
quantify and control air emissions to comply with both applicable 
regulations and emission standards. 
Any increase in production can negatively impact our emissions trends. 
Though there are efforts to minimize solvent use in production, 
solvents are needed for cleaning and disinfecting purposes. As the 
company transforms from manufacturing of pharmaceuticals to 
biopharmaceuticals, mandatory cleaning and disinfection protocols 
associated with biologics and vaccines are increasing solvent  
based emissions. 
The Montreal Protocol mandates phase-out of refrigerants that 
are ozone depleting substances (ODS) per schedules approved for 
individual countries. Our facilities strive to maintain compliance with 
applicable regulatory requirements that have been established in 
accordance with each country’s commitments. 
Our company’s Air Center of Excellence (CoE) provides assistance as 
needed to our facilities to obtain appropriate environmental permits, 
and to quantify and control air emissions to comply with applicable 
regulations and emission standards.
Production and research emissions
Many of our pharmaceutical manufacturing processes, cleaning/
disinfection operations and research laboratories require the use of 
solvents. Evaporation of solvents into the air is our primary source 
of volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. In an effort to reduce 
VOC emissions, reduction in solvent usage has been incorporated as an 
element of our Green & Sustainable Science program (see GRI 301 on 
page 83 for more information).
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
104
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Key elements of the program include designing efficient processes 
that use fewer and less-hazardous organic solvents and using water-
based methods for cleaning our process equipment where they are 
as effective as solvent-based methods. To reduce emissions from 
processes where organic solvents are used, we use pollution-control 
technologies such as conservation vents, carbon filters, thermal 
oxidizers, condensers and scrubbers.
Fossil fuel combustion emissions
Air emissions are also generated by burning fuel in our boilers and 
power-generation turbines (for heat and energy), and by other 
combustion processes, such as thermal oxidizers (for treating 
air emissions) and incinerators (for destroying waste). Our fleet 
vehicles and aircraft also burn fuel and generate air emissions. 
These combustion processes result in emissions of carbon dioxide 
(CO₂), nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and volatile 
organic compounds (VOCs). We strive to make our facilities more 
energy-efficient through our energy-management programs and 
to improve the fuel efficiency of our fleet vehicles. By making these 
improvements, we also reduce emissions of CO2, NOx, SOx and VOCs 
from our operations.
Air pollutant emissions by type (MT)12016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 460 487 504 395 396
Sulfur oxides (SOx) 37 37 31 27 23
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 440 384 411 399 383
Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 0.7 0.1 0.3 0.7 0.3
		Note:	Previously	reported	data	have	been	restated	per	our	methodology,	which	includes	adding	facilities	that	have	been	acquired	and	removing	facilities	that	have	been	sold	 
		as	operating	sites.
1 Data	are	estimated	using	conservative	assumptions	and	factors,	not	measured	or	weighed.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 105
 Overview
Our 2020 NOx emissions remained consistent with 2019 levels despite  
the use of emergency generators at our Puerto Rico facility that were 
required during an extended power outage caused by earthquakes 
and Tropical Storm Laura. However, this increase in emissions was 
counterbalanced by a reduction in emissions throughout our network 
due to a decrease in emissions from our jet and fleet operations as a 
result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The decrease in SOx emissions from 2019 to 2020 can be attributed to 
the use of fuel with a lower sulfur content. 
VOC emissions decreased from 2019 to 2020 due to variations in 
production and because of continuous data collection improvements 
with the adoption of more accurate emission-tracking methods. 
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances are the result of non-routine 
releases from temperature-control and fire-suppression systems and 
can vary from year to year.
 For more information, please refer to the other sections of GRI 305 
and GRI 307 (pages 100 and 110). 
Effluents	&	waste1
GRI 306 Management	approach
The proper management of waste from our facilities is important 
to the communities in which we operate and is the focus of our 
environmental permits and other regulatory requirements.
Our waste management standard requires our facilities to comply  
with applicable generation, management and disposal regulations  
and standards.
To minimize our environmental footprint and align with the U.N. 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we look for opportunities  
to avoid the use of hazardous materials, to reuse or recycle materials 
and to prevent the generation of waste. When prevention, reuse 
and recycling are not practical or feasible, we apply controls and 
treatment technologies to prevent human health impacts and minimize 
environmental impacts.The amount of waste we generate reflects the efficiency of our 
manufacturing processes. Our facilities track and report the amount  
of operational waste they generate and how it is managed.
We continuously strive to reduce the amount of operational waste 
we generate and to maximize the use of environmentally beneficial 
disposal methods such as recycling, composting and waste-to-energy.
Governance
Waste management is overseen globally by our Waste and Dangerous 
Goods Center of Excellence (CoE). This CoE reviews waste data to 
monitor sites’ progress, and provides assistance as needed to support 
the sites’ work toward these goals. 
Each site is responsible for the management of its waste. In many 
cases, we partner with our third-party Integrated Facility Management 
(IFM) partners to manage site waste and work toward realizing the 
corporate waste goals. 
 For information regarding our environmental management and 
governance, please see GRI 307 on page 110 .
Waste minimization begins with the upfront evaluation of our product 
designs and manufacturing processes. Through our Green and 
Sustainable Science program (see GRI 301 on page 83), we design 
processes that use safer chemicals, consume less energy, use less 
water and other resources and generate less waste. Our process 
development biologists, chemists and engineers have the expertise to 
create more sustainable ways to make our products.
To ensure our waste is managed in an environmentally responsible 
manner, we use only approved waste disposal facilities. Approved 
facilities demonstrate that they have the systems, technologies and 
practices to manage our waste streams responsibly and in compliance 
with all applicable requirements. We routinely audit these facilities to 
verify the acceptability of their systems and practices.
Waste types are defined differently in various parts of the world. For 
this report, we have divided our operational waste into two categories:
Hazardous waste: Highly regulated or high-risk waste streams that 
need to be neutralized, treated or destroyed to address a particular 
hazard such as toxicity, flammability, corrosivity, radioactivity, 
pharmaceutically active or infectious.
Non-hazardous waste: This includes all other operational waste.  1  Data	for	this	section	are	captured	in	corporate	managed	data	systems.	Data	from	the	
Merck	Animal	Health	Intelligence	(MAHI)	facilities,	which	were	acquired	in	2019	and	
thereafter,	are	not	yet	included.	These	metrics	will	be	reported	in	the	future	as	these	 
sites	become	fully	integrated	into	the	company	internal	reporting	processes.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
106
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Goal: 
By	2025,	no	more	than	20%	of	our	global 	
operational	waste	will	be	sent	to	landfills	and 	
incinerators	(without	energy	recovery).Goal: 
By	2025,	at	least	50%	of	our	sites	will	send	zero 	
waste	to	landfills.
On Track: 28% to landfills and incinerators  
(without energy recovery)On Track: 48% of sitesProgress: Progress: Waste managementThe amount of construction project related waste can vary significantly 
from year to year based on the number and size of projects.  
Therefore, our definition of operational waste does not include 
construction or demolition waste from construction projects.
Over the past few years, a number of countries in Asia have enacted 
legislation restricting the acceptance of solid waste from other 
countries. Historically, a large percentage of recyclable waste collected 
in the U.S. has been shipped to Asia for recycling, so this change had 
and continues to have the potential to affect the percentage of our 
non-hazardous waste sent for recycling. However, this change had 
minimal impact on our recycling rates in the past year. The percentage 
of our non-hazardous waste sent for recycling decreased from  
40 percent to 39 percent from 2019 to 2020.
In 2020, our Energy Capital fund became the Sustainability Capital 
Fund, expanding the scope of the funds to water and waste projects.  
It is used exclusively for sustainability projects at sites around the 
world that bring long-term value to the company and focus on carbon footprint, water use and solid waste reduction.  The fund allocates up 
to $12 million per year which allows us to adopt low carbon technology, 
better positions the company to respond to climate change and 
supports a more circular economy. In 2020, we allocated approximately 
$262,500 to waste projects. 
GRI 306-3 Waste	generated
A “significant environmental event” is defined as an environmental 
release that results in environmental harm to humans, aquatic 
organisms or wildlife.
We experienced no significant environmental events in 2020.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 107
 Overview
Global operational waste 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Incinerated (without energy recovery) 20% 19% 24% 19% 23%
Landfilled 10% 10% 9% 7% 5%
Total 30% 29% 33% 26% 28%
Hazardous waste (MT) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Incinerated (without energy recovery) 13,186 13,462 17,639 14,025 16,649
Energy recovery 9,871 9,538 10,300 13,655 15,330
Recycled 6,135 7,979 6,827 8,034 8,685
Other 2,425 2,423 2,221 1,865 1,662
Reused 2,132 1,505 695 1,147 480
Landfilled 1,492 745 731 938 198
Composted 5 0 0 0 0
Total 35,246 35,652 38,413 39,674 43,004GRI 306-4 Waste	diverted	from	disposal
GRI 306-5 Waste	directed	to	disposal
SASB 250a.4Amount	of	product	accepted	for	takeback,	reuse,	 
or	disposal
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
108
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Non-hazardous waste (MT) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Incinerated (without energy recovery) 1,361 426 374 477 1,124
Energy recovery 10,342 8,576 9,273 10,030 8,280
Recycled 14,636 15,188 12,975 14,188 13,537
Other 445 212 209 1,025 1,717
Reused 972 1,071 2,204 660 963
Landfilled 5,826 6,633 5,684 4,603 4,061
Composted 3,771 4,668 4,798 4,843 4,892
Total 37,353 36,774 35,517 35,826 34,574
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste (MT) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Recycled, energy recovery, reused or composted 47,864 48,525 47,072 52,557 52,167
Landfilled and incinerated (without energy recovery) 21,865 21,265 24,428 20,053 22,032
Incinerated (without energy recovery) 14,547 13,887 18,013 14,512 17,773
Landfilled 7,318 7,378 6,415 5,541 4,259
Other 2,870 2,635 2,430 2,890 3,379
Total172,599 72,426 73,930 75,500 77,578
1 May	not	add	up	to	total	due	to	rounding.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 109
 Overview
In 2020, we managed approximately 77,578 metric tons of waste 
from our operations, a three percent increase from 2019. Of this total, 
43,004 metric tons were hazardous waste.
Of the hazardous waste we generated in 2020, 57 percent was 
beneficially reused in some way (reused, recycled or sent for energy 
recovery), down from 58 percent in 2019. Approximately 20 percent 
of our hazardous waste was sent offsite for recycling and was either 
returned to us for reuse or sold to other industries. Another 36 percent 
was burned to generate power, up from 34 percent in 2019. Regarding 
the hazardous waste that could not be recycled or beneficially reused, 
39 percent of the total hazardous waste generated was incinerated 
without energy recovery, up from 35 percent in 2019. Less than one 
percent was sent to hazardous-waste landfills. 
We beneficially reused 80 percent of the 34,574 metric tons of non-
hazardous waste we generated in 2020. We are evaluating and refining 
the programs currently in place at our manufacturing, research and 
office sites to reduce waste generation and increase recycling.
Approximately 48 percent of our facilities sent zero operational waste 
to landfill in 2020, up from 46 percent in 2019, and the percentage of 
waste sent to landfill dropped two percentage points, from 7 percent in 
2019 to 5 percent in 2020. 
We continue to work to identify alternate methods of waste 
management that will reduce the amount of waste sent to incinerators 
(without energy recovery) and landfills. 
We do not collect data on the amount of product accepted for takeback, 
reuse or disposal.
For additional information on this topic, please review the  
following documents located on the ESG Resources page   
of our corporate website:
• Corporate Policy: Respect for Environmental Health  
and Safety (EHS)
• Public Policy Position Statement: Responsible Disposal  
of Medicines in the Household 
• Sharps Management Plan-CalRecycleEnvironmental	compliance
GRI 307 Management	approach
Protecting our people, our communities and the environment is 
fundamentally important to the way our company operates.
Our company strives every day to conduct business in a safe and 
environmentally responsible manner. We are committed to providing 
a safe and healthy workplace for our employees and to reducing the 
environmental impact of our operations around the world. Our core 
values are focused upon promoting the health and safety of our 
employees and respect for the environment. This is reflected in our 
Corporate Policy: Respect for EHS .
In addition to complying with all applicable country, regional, state, 
provincial and local safety and environmental laws, we strive for EHS 
performance that is among the best in the pharmaceutical industry.
We also adhere to the following key operating principles:
• Maintain a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, 
contractors and guests
• Foster a culture of EHS excellence that is built on science, integrity, 
accountability, personal responsibility, collaboration and active 
employee participation
• Seek to continuously improve our EHS systems, processes 
and standards
• Minimize our impact on the environment by identifying and 
implementing approaches to reduce the resources we use during the 
design, development and manufacture of our products
• Understand the potential hazards associated with our products and 
take action to minimize any potential risks or adverse impacts
• Promote EHS excellence in our supply chain by entering into 
business relationships with partners that share our commitment to 
responsible EHS stewardship
1		Data	for	this	section	are	captured	in	corporate	managed	data	systems.	Data	from	the	Merck	Animal	Health	Intelligence	(MAHI)	facilities,	which	were	acquired	in	2019	and	thereafter,	 
are	not	yet	included.	However,	environmental	NOVs	and	fines	from	these	facilities	are	included	in	this	section.	
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
110
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
The Global Safety and Environment (GSE) department is responsible 
for the global EHS Management System which is based on the “Plan, 
Do, Check, Act” model. This enables us to assess and continually 
improve our practices over time. The model is implemented  
globally through a set of interwoven business processes that span  
the corporation:
• Our planning process includes developing goals, objectives and 
metrics based on a review of our company’s performance, EHS 
programs, applicable regulations and external factors that may 
impact our business (PLAN)
• Activities are performed by using standards, guidelines and tools 
that are integrated into the EHS Management System and include 
specific expectations for sites and operating organizations (DO)
• Governance committees, from the executive-level EHS Council 
through site-based compliance committees, review business unit 
performance and progress against objectives throughout the year. 
EHS audits and self-assessments are also performed throughout the 
year (CHECK)
• Corrective actions and continuous-improvement initiatives are 
established to resolve EHS concerns that have surfaced during 
periodic assessments, audits and routine surveillance of the 
regulatory landscape. We track our corrective actions centrally to 
ensure proper oversight (ACT)
We have robust programs and initiatives to address global challenges 
and opportunities related to achievement of our short- and long-term 
environmental management and compliance objectives. 
Training
Training is critical to building worldwide employee competencies 
that will improve compliance, reduce risks and drive continuous 
performance improvement.
We have a global standard that defines the EHS training expectations 
for employees in three categories:
• Manager training covers specific management responsibilities with 
regard to safety and environmental compliance and promoting a 
“safety first” culture• EHS professional training designed to expand technical expertise  
and improve our EHS capabilities around the world
• Employee training covering the specific information our employees 
need to perform their jobs in a safe and environmentally compliant 
manner, focusing on hazards they encounter on the job and the 
corresponding control measures 
Site EHS professionals complete an assessment of the activities 
performed at their sites and ensure that relevant topics are included 
in their site-specific training plans. They develop employee training 
curricula to comply with both regulatory and internal training 
requirements specific to their country. These training programs 
are updated when there are changes to our EHS Standards and/
or applicable national, regional, state or local requirements, and are 
reviewed periodically to ensure that they remain current. Our EHS 
training program materials are available in both instructor-led and 
e-learning formats. We also conduct periodic web-based seminars 
to inform EHS professionals of changes in regulations, standards and 
company practices.
Recently, we developed a new e-learning course to build organizational 
awareness about Environmental Sustainability. The training’s objective 
is to help employees understand how they might be able to promote 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 111
 Overview
environmental sustainability in their role at the company. It defines the 
concept of environmental sustainability and then takes a closer look 
at what environmental sustainability means for business, our industry 
and our company.
Environmental Health and Safety  
(EHS) governance
Our commitment to the environment and employee health and safety 
begins with the company’s Executive Team, which has established the 
corporate EHS Council. 
The EHS Council comprises senior-level executives representing all 
business units, and is responsible for overall EHS governance, as well as 
for leading and driving enterprise-wide excellence in EHS management 
and performance. In 2020, the EHS Council formally met four times, 
with additional off-cycle communications as needed. 
The Council’s responsibilities include:
• Establishing EHS strategy, policy and business risk  
mitigation controls
• Ensuring cross-divisional engagement in the design  
and implementation of EHS business processes
• Sponsoring and implementing a sustainability strategy
• Monitoring the EHS performance of the company and  
establish continuous improvement targets
• Enhancing visibility and transparency of EHS risks, processes  
and issues
An EHS Standards Committee has been chartered by the Council to 
provide stewardship over our EHS Standards and enable business 
engagement in the development of new or revised Standards. 
Each area of the business is responsible for executing against these 
Standards, contributing to the development of programs, supporting 
internal audits and communicating significant EHS events. Divisional 
EHS compliance committees have also been established to manage, 
execute and resolve EHS issues as they arise.
The vice president (VP) of GSE is responsible for communicating to the 
company’s Board of Directors, Executive Team and the EHS Council 
regarding progress on goals, objectives and metrics, as well as other material issues. In addition, the VP of GSE partners with business 
leaders to establish long- and short-term goals and performance 
metrics to drive EHS excellence.
Safety and environmental performance targets are included in 
divisional management objectives. 
 Learn more about corporate governance at our company in  
GRI 102-18 on pages 40–42.
Our corporate EHS organization is responsible for:
• Developing corporate policies, procedures, guidelines,  
standards, tools and programs to set expectations and to  
support EHS compliance
• Providing technical and regulatory support to site-based EHS staff 
and operating organizations
• Managing and implementing an internal audit program charged 
with understanding the current state of compliance and identifying 
potential issues
• Tracking and communicating internal and external trends that should 
be addressed
• Anticipating, tracking and commenting on new regulations  
affecting our business and, where appropriate, developing plans  
to address them
• Tracking EHS performance of individual sites, divisions and the 
company as a whole, and communicating performance versus 
established targets
Our site-based safety and environmental professionals around the 
world support the EHS needs of their business areas, which include 
manufacturing, research operations, sales and administrative  
activities by:
• Ensuring that line management fully understands EHS 
requirements, including applicable regulations, permit requirements 
and company EHS Standards
• Establishing, assessing and improving programs
• Providing regulatory and technical support to employees and the 
operating areas
• Routinely assessing performance against our company standards, 
regulatory requirements and performance targets
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
112
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
• Acting as the primary liaison with local regulators and inspectors
• Investigating incidents and near-miss events to identify root  
causes and developing corrective and preventive actions to  
prevent recurrence
Internal auditing
We have a detailed and rigorous EHS audit program. Our global 
corporate EHS audit program is one way in which we identify and 
resolve compliance and performance issues within the company.
• Our audit leaders are full-time professional EHS auditors with 
extensive experience in auditing a broad range of EHS programs 
applicable to the company. The individual audit teams consist of EHS 
professionals with extensive site and subject-matter expertise. In 
many cases, particularly outside of the U.S., our internal auditors 
work with independent consultants who have regulatory expertise in 
the laws of the host country.
• All audit findings are addressed through the development of 
corrective and preventive action plans (CAPA), which are reviewed, 
approved by the audit leader and regional EHS leader, and tracked to 
completion. This process includes senior management oversight. • Findings from our audit program are communicated to appropriate 
parts of the organization so that learnings may be shared and 
preventative actions can be taken.
• Audit performance and key program metrics are reviewed as part  
of our governance process.
We use multiple factors to determine the audit frequency of our 
facilities, including facility size, operational complexity, compliance 
status and performance history. Our most complex operations are 
audited every year, and all manufacturing and research operations are 
audited at least every three years. Less complex facilities, such as sales 
and business offices are audited less frequently. In 2020, we performed 
13 corporate EHS audits of our facilities, involving 212 auditor days of 
remote review activities.
In 2020, the conventional EHS audit process was significantly 
interrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in the creation of a 
remote audit methodology and procedure.  Remote audits were then 
restarted in the 3rd quarter of 2020 using technology tools such as 
video conferencing, use of electronic document repositories and both 
real-time and recorded videography.
A recent survey by the National Association for Environmental, Health 
& Safety and Sustainability Management (NAEM) found that remote 
EHS auditing has increased since the onset of the pandemic for the 
companies responding to the survey. Most companies (68 percent) 
responded that they were currently piloting or conducting virtual 
audits in some capacity.1
Regular-internal Quality Assurance Reviews of the program are 
performed by Corporate Audit and Assurance Services at least every 
three years. The most recent review of the EHS auditing program was 
performed in March 2021, and resulted in a rating of “Effective,” with 
controls and practices deemed to be in line with company requirements 
and expectations. 
In addition to our corporate EHS audit program, our sites regularly 
perform self-inspections, and review compliance with permit 
conditions, regulatory requirements and company EHS Standards,  
with all programs being evaluated at least once every three years.
1		Sean	Mason,	Research	Manager,	NAEM,	“The	Emergence	of	Virtual	EHS	Audits”,	
NAEM	Research,	February	2021
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 113
 Overview
Certification
Our company is certified in the Responsible Care® Management 
System Technical Specification RCMS Technical Specification  
is RC101.06, 2019. The RCMS® recertification occurred on  
December 4, 2019. 
Additionally, our corporate EHS management system is generally 
aligned with the requirements of the International Standards 
Organization (ISO), but we do not pursue certification under the 
Environmental (ISO 14001) or Safety (ISO 45001) frameworks at the 
global level. Some of our facilities have individually achieved ISO 14001 
certification to meet customer requirements.
Remediation
Environmental management practices have evolved significantly over 
the past 30 years.
With research and manufacturing operations dating back more than 
100 years, some of our facilities operated at a time when there were 
few regulations and little understanding of good environmental 
practices. Because our company has responsibility for remediation of 
these sites, we have launched investigations, developed science-based 
remediation plans and implemented cleanup projects to protect the 
health and safety of our neighbors, communities, employees and the 
environment, and comply with all applicable requirements.
Over time, we have acquired properties and manufacturing facilities 
that may not have been subject to the same EHS management 
standards that we have in place today. We are also investigating and 
remediating those properties where necessary.
We spent $11 million in 2020 for remediation and environmental 
liabilities, including those at formerly owned and operated sites.  
Our company has an environmental liability reserve of approximately  
$67 million to fund the continued remediation of these sites into 
the future. In addition, we are a potentially responsible party at 
16 multi-party Superfund sites in the U.S.
 For additional information on this topic please review the following 
documents located on the ESG Resources page of our corporate website:
• Corporate Policy: Respect for EHS 
• Public Policy Position Statement: Pharmaceuticals in the Environment
• Public Policy Position Statement: Responsible Disposal of Medicines 
in the Household 
• Global Antimicrobial Resistance Action Plan
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
114
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 307-1Non-compliance	with	environmental	laws	 
and	regulations
Our centralized EHS information system allows us to collect, manage, 
learn from and share our safety and environmental performance data 
more efficiently.
We collect and analyze data in both leading and lagging metrics to 
look for potential trends and identify opportunities that can help drive 
performance improvement. We continuously explore new ways to learn 
from and report on our performance.Safety and environmental performance targets are included in 
divisional management objectives. In addition, all employees are 
eligible for special recognition for innovative ideas and projects related 
to improving EHS aspects of our operations.
Notices of violations, fines and settlements
We report all forms of EHS compliance notices using the term Notices 
of Violation (NOVs), which includes citations, letters of warning and 
notices of noncompliance from environmental and safety-focused 
regulatory agencies.
In 2020, the company had 156 EHS-related regulatory agency 
inspections of our facilities around the world. We received three  
safety-related and nine environmental-related NOVs and paid  
$21,022 in fines in 2020.
Notices of violations (NOVs) and citations 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Environmental 12 5 6 9 9
Safety 2 3 1 4 3
Fines 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Environmental fines paid $33,906 $0 $0 $17,690 $21,022
Number of environmental fines 2 0 0 3 3
Safety fines paid $0 $0 $0 $0 $0
Number of safety fines 0 0 0 0 0
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 115
 Overview
Supplier	environmental 	
assessment
GRI 308 Management	approach
Environmental sustainability principles are integrated in each stage of 
our supplier management program. Our Global Supplier Management 
Group (GSMG) drives the program and maintains the associated 
standards and processes by which suppliers are identified, qualified and 
managed. The environmental sustainability program is integrated with 
social responsibility and economic inclusion and supplier  
diversity (EI&SD). 
 Please visit GRI 102-9 on page 29 for additional information 
regarding our integrated approach with our suppliers.
External manufacturing
We understand that our external manufacturers pose a higher 
risk compared to most supplier categories. As a result, external 
manufacturers of active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products are screened for Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) 
compliance, in addition to quality, supply and technical competence 
requirements. The EHS screening and onsite assessment is led  
by Global Safety and the Environment (GSE) and includes a  
survey covering such topics as regulatory compliance, fatalities  
and major incidents.
Based on the screening results and activities undertaken by the 
supplier, certain external manufacturers are subject to a more detailed 
onsite assessment conducted by a multidisciplinary team, which may 
include our company’s Quality, GSE, Global Technical Operations and 
GSMG representatives.
The external manufacturers we contract with are periodically 
reassessed using a risk-based approach; higher-risk external 
manufacturers are subject to more frequent onsite assessments. 
We expect that observations made during the audit process will be 
remediated by our external manufacturers, and we monitor and track 
corrective actions through completion.
The 2020 schedule was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Our 
priority was given to new supplier reviews (due diligence) versus 
current supplier reviews, in our support of the supply chain. Whenever 
possible, assessments were completed in person. However, some 
assessments were completely virtual or a combination thereof.  
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
116
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative  
(PSCI) Environment Task Team 
Our company co-leads the PSCI Environment Task Team and works 
together with GSE and peer organizations to develop supplier 
survey(s), training, tools and maturity modeling. 
Since 2016, this team has been working together to standardize their 
environmental supplier data request to reduce the different requests to 
suppliers and minimize data fatigue. The survey covers greenhouse gas 
emissions, energy, waste and water, and is in four sections: 
• Established program: alignment with the Code of Conduct
• Manage impact: data for each environmental indicator
• Reduce emissions: environmental targets 
• Apportion emissions: supplier emissions that are specific  
to our companyIn 2020, we updated the survey to include questions related to science-
based targets (SBT) for greenhouse gas emissions reductions. Please 
see the following table for the 2020 survey response rate.
In addition to the survey, below are a few examples of additional items 
completed by the Environment Team in 2020:
• 10 environmental sustainability guides
• 14 responsible sourcing guides for key materials
• Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials training
• Sustainable Packaging training
• Revised PSCI Principles training
We worked with PSCI to provide environmental training to our 
suppliers. These initiatives ensure a consistent message and approach 
with our suppliers across the industry. Working together with PSCI, 
we provide these tools and resources on PSCI’s platform and in 
webinars. We also provide these tools for our employees on an internal 
GSMG webpage.
External manufacturing EHS assessments 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Prospective external manufacturers 34 37 65 43 50
Current external manufacturers 85 53 61 48 27
Total 119 90 126 91 77
PSCI environmental metrics 2017 2018 2019 2020
Supplier personnel trained in environmental topics 1N/A N/A N/A 885
Environmental Survey response rate 87% 96% 96% 96%
1	Formal	training	was	created	in	2020	and	conducted	as	a	joint	effort	with	PSCI.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 117
 Overview
Social
 See our GRI index on page 171.
Employment 	
GRI 401 Management	approach
We recognize that our ability to excel depends on the integrity, 
knowledge, imagination, skill, diversity and teamwork  
of our employees.
A positive, inclusive and high-performing work environment is 
essential for employees to feel welcomed and valued, and to fully 
achieve their business objectives.
Harnessing the knowledge and insights of a globally diverse 
workforce requires leadership, a corporate culture of respect and full 
engagement, and a thoughtful and strategic approach to workplace 
inclusion and employee development and wellbeing — physical, 
emotional, social and financial.
We value global diversity and inclusion at every level of the 
organization and strive for inclusiveness in every aspect of work.We are:
• Committed to fostering development and rewarding talent
• Dedicated to diversity and inclusion at every level of  
the organization
• Adept at recognizing unique skill sets and nurturing  
employees’ talents
Throughout 2020, we invested in programs to drive positive  
cultural and talent changes at our company. Our values represent  
the very core of our character and they guide every decision and 
action we take.
At the same time, we recognize that we must continue evolving 
our culture and ways of working to fortify the company’s future and 
truly achieve our vision of becoming the premier biopharmaceutical 
company. To that end, we embarked on a collaborative effort to 
create the behavioral and mindset shifts needed for our company’s 
future. As part of this initiative, we asked our employees to join us 
in writing the next chapter for our company. Ways of Working is the 
name of the journey to transform our company culture and create a 
working environment that is stimulating and motivating to get the 
best out of our talent.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
118
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Behavioral and mindset shift 
The cultural transformation journey encompassed 
by Ways of Working builds on the foundation of our 
values, and encourages colleagues to engage in five 
behavioral and mindset shifts:From	Silos to Networks
From	Planning to Experimentation From	Withholding to Sharing From	Controlling to EmpoweringFrom	Knowing to Learning
Build partnerships, break down barriers and  
collaborate across the enterprise in a positive way.
Engage and align multiple internal and external 
stakeholders toward a common goal.
Make effective and rapid decisions for the business based 
on incomplete information or without being certain of 
the outcome. Experiment with courageous new ideas, 
approaches and improvements to current process. Be 
accountable for extracting lessons learned from failures 
and mistakes.Foster an environment of autonomy at all levels of 
the organization. 
Appropriately put decision rights where they belong 
regardless of hierarchy and allow for innovation.Challenge ourselves by continuously learning from other 
people, industries and organizations. Foster a culture of 
curiosity, discovery and openness to new ideas.
Proactively collaborate in cross functional teams to 
share capabilities, ideas, resources and innovation.
Lead change by being candid and sharing critical 
information that people need to know to perform  
their best.1
32
4
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 119
 Overview
At the end of 2020, the Ways of Working culture journey was well 
underway: more than 29,000 employees had accessed the internal 
Ways of Working social media site. Approximately 16,000 employees 
completed a self-assessment on the Ways of Working as an initial 
exploration of where they were on the journey. Colleagues were also 
using our internal recognition platform, INSPIRE, to recognize others 
in their Ways of Working journey: more than 300,000 recognitions 
were made in the platform to celebrate how one of those five Ways of 
Working were being demonstrated. 
The COVID-19 pandemic created a high degree of disruption to our 
work and personal lives. Our company’s grassroots adoption of the 
Ways of Working provided a means for employees to not only manage 
but thrive amidst the challenges around them. Employees posted 
examples from the five Ways of Working on several company channels 
to highlight the changes that made the greatest impact on them:
Adopting new technology
By engaging in experimentation, learning and sharing, teams around the 
world were able to quickly adopt technologies that allowed them to do 
their work. These technologies include videoconferencing applications, 
virtual whiteboards, polling and podcasting tools and cloud-based 
productivity suites.Changing collaboration
Realizing the risk of feeling disconnected while working from home, 
employees rapidly shifted to go from silos to networks by using the 
different channels of the Ways of Working to share stories about how 
to cope and be productive at working from home. In a matter of weeks, 
teams around the world shifted learning programs, physician forums 
and key customer meetings to virtual formats over more appropriate 
periods of time. Virtual events and summits became the new normal.
Enabling inclusion
Working from home involved going from withholding to sharing more of 
people’s personal side. Success stories about how people brought their 
whole selves (as well as their families and pets) to work contributed to 
a greater sense of inclusion and belonging. 
As some parts of the world began preparing for a return to the 
workplace, the learning and networks inherent in the Ways of Working 
allowed practices like office-booking applications to be shared for those 
seeking support. At a time of great disruption, employees went from  
controlling to empowering to create solutions that allowed them to be 
successful in their own unique ways.
 Visit our culture and values page for more information on our 
initiatives, policies and accomplishments. 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
120
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Turnover by 
region (2020)Overall  
turnover 
rate 1Voluntary  
turnover 
rate
Asia Pacific 8.1% 6.8%
Latin America 8.9% 3.1%
EEMEA 8.9% 6.1%
Japan 11.4% 2.1%
Europe 6.9% 3.6%
U.S. 5.8% 4.9%
China 22.3% 19.3%
Canada 10.1% 9.1%
1 Includes	all	types	of	turnover,	including	restructuring.Turnover by 
division (2020)Overall  
turnover 
rate 1Voluntary  
turnover 
rate
Animal Health 7.1% 4.6%
Corp Compliance 5.1% 3.0%
Global Services 5.5% 4.4%
Global Human 
Health14.4% 9.0%
Human Resources 7.8% 5.7%
Legal, Security,  
Safety &  
Environment6.2% 5.3%
Manufacturing 
Division5.3% 3.8%
Research 
Laboratories6.7% 5.5%
Strategic 
Communications, 
Global Public 
Policy &  
Public Health5.0% 2.5%
1 Includes	all	types	of	turnover,	including	restructuring.Turnover 
distribution 
by gender and 
region (2020)Female Male
Overall 47% 53%
Asia Pacific 50% 50%
EEMEA 59% 41%
Latin America 39% 61%
Europe 49% 51%
Japan 18% 82%
U.S. 47% 53%
China 51% 49%
Canada 49% 51%GRI 401-1 New	employee	hires	and	turnover
SASB 330a.1Talent	recruitment	and	retention	efforts	for	 
R&D	personnel
SASB 330a.2Voluntary	and	involuntary	turnover	rate	for:	
executives	and	senior	managers,	midlevel	managers,	
professionals	and	all	others
1 Includes	all	types	of	turnover	of	regular	employees.2020 Turnover (global)
Overall turnover rate 1
8.5%
Voluntary turnover rate
5.9%
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 121
 Overview
Employee hires by region 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Asia Pacific2
Number of hires 1,732 1,909 3,071 2,727 597
Hire rate114.8% 16.1% 24.4% 20.8% 8.9%
EEMEA 
Number of hires 382 378 505 605 360
Hire rate113.5% 13.7% 16.7% 18.8% 10.7%
Latin America
Number of hires 380 1,246 714 558 459
Hire rate18.0% 23.8% 13.1% 10.5% 8.4%
Europe and Canada3
Number of hires 1,636 1,865 2,495 2,624 1,754
Hire rate18.9% 9.8% 12.3% 12.3% 8.4%
Japan
Number of hires 196 109 153 121 143
Hire rate15.0% 2.8% 4.3% 3.4% 4.4%
U.S.
Number of hires 1,937 2,173 3,019 2,654 3,193
Hire rate18.3% 9.1% 12.4% 10.5% 11.9%
China
Number of hires NR NR NR NR 2,149
Hire rate1NR NR NR NR 29.5%
Canada
Number of hires NR NR NR NR 50
Hire rate1NR NR NR NR 7.5%
NR:	Not	reported	
1	Percentage	of	new	hires	in	the	total	onboard	head	count;	regular	employees	only.	
22020	data	excludes	China.	Separate	reporting	for	China	began	in	2020.
3 2020	data	excludes	Canada.	Separate	reporting	for	Canada	began	in	2020.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
122
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
We use a comprehensive approach to ensure recruiting, retention  
and leadership development goals are systematically executed 
throughout the company. We hire talented leaders to achieve improved 
gender parity and representation across all dimensions of diversity. We 
provide training to our managers and external recruiting organizations 
on strategies to mitigate unconscious bias in the candidate 
selection and hiring process. In addition, we utilize a comprehensive 
communications strategy, marketing outreach, social media and 
strategic alliance partnerships to reach a broad pool of talent in our 
critical business areas.
2020 was a highly unusual year due to the global pandemic. Turnover 
was lower in most markets, which may reflect employees not making 
job changes in such an uncertain environment for personal health and 
economic concerns.
Our hiring practices pivoted seamlessly to almost all virtual. Hiring did 
slow down in most ex-U.S. markets consistent with lower turnover 
rates. But in the U.S., our highest volume hiring market, hiring 
increased in 2020 versus 2019 by 20 percent, largely due to growth 
and investment in our U.S. Manufacturing division plants and the 
expansion of clinical trials in our R&D division.
China is another market that remained on pace with hiring in 2020, 
to support the growth strategy in that market in Oncology and 
Vaccines across Human Health and in our Research & Development 
division. While some companies across the pharmaceutical industry 
may have scaled back their hiring in 2020 as a result of the pandemic, 
we continued to move forward on hiring plans to fulfill our strategic 
growth plans. We were successful at attracting and securing talent 
during a highly unusual year and significantly increased our focus 
on creating a diverse workforce through our sourcing, branding and 
selection processes. 
GRI 401-2 Benefits	provided	to	full-time	employees
We recognize that our employees are vital to the company’s mission 
of improving and saving lives around the world. One way we recognize 
the importance of our people is to provide a valuable suite of programs 
and resources that support professional achievement and personal 
wellbeing at every stage of life. Our benefits and wellbeing programs are designed using guiding 
principles that focus on consumer experience, a core set of programs 
for everyone and flexible offerings to support our diverse workforce, 
financial stability for both our company and our employees, and 
providing high-quality programs that reflect our business, values  
and culture. 
Health and wellbeing 
Employees across the world enjoy comprehensive health coverage, 
which varies by region and country, and are also provided access to our 
comprehensive wellbeing initiative called Live it. Through Live it, our 
employees can utilize a wide variety of programs and resources that are 
focused on prevention, physical health, nutrition and mental health.
In the U.S., we generally offer health, life, disability and business travel 
insurance as well as retirement income benefits to all employees. 
Employees also can opt to contribute to tax-free flexible spending 
accounts for reimbursement of certain health spending and/or 
dependent care costs.
Outside the U.S., while benefits may vary by region and country, we 
offer health, life and injury, disability and business travel insurance, 
along with retirement income benefits. In addition to covering 
employees’ eligible dependents, in the U.S. and many countries 
(subject to local law) we extend health care and various insurance 
benefits to employees’ domestic partners and their partners’ eligible 
dependent children.
 Review our Wellbeing Report on Merck.com. 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 123
 Overview
Health advocacy (U.S.)
Within the U.S., our medical plan helps support our members with 
an advocacy solution, which is designed to help employees and their 
families navigate the health care and health insurance system. The 
program is designed to make employees’ lives easier by saving hours of 
effort with activities such as:
• Helping to resolve complicated medical and dental insurance claims
• Finding doctors, providers and facilities
• Scheduling appointments for physicians, treatments and tests
• Securing expert second opinions
• Connecting with fertility advocacy
• Getting cost estimates for medical procedures
• Assisting in the transfer of medical records
• Researching and locating the latest treatments
• Managing complex or chronic conditions with clinical experts
Commitment to mental health
Every employee and their household members have access to  
our global Employee Assistance Program, which provides: 
• In-the-moment telephone support for daily relationship  
challenges, work issues and everyday stress
• Professional counseling sessions 
• Work-life services for everyday help and everyday needs,  
such as finding assisted living for an aging parent or support  
with childcare services
• Crisis support for unanticipated events
Our company provides a wide variety of resources to all employees 
such as mental health awareness training, webcasts by world-class 
speakers on important topics such as resilience, men’s mental health 
and happiness, live and recorded exercise classes, mindfulness sessions 
and a network of mental-health champions that provide local support.Other programs to support wellbeing (U.S.)
Our company offers many programs to help make it easier for 
employees to balance their various responsibilities. The following is a 
non-exhaustive sampling:
• Caregiving support
• Transportation services
• Backup dependent care
• Childcare support
• K–12 educational guidance
• Special-needs counseling
• Adoption and surrogacy  assistance
• High-quality mental health network
• Fast access to high-quality cancer care
• Employee assistance and work-life services program
• Summer hours
• Paid parental time off
• Disaster relief benefits 
• Breastmilk shipping
• Tobacco-free policy
How we have helped employees through COVID-19
During the pandemic, we updated and added programs to assist 
employees and their families with the many challenges resulting  
from COVID-19. 
Outside the U.S., we support 100 percent coverage of COVID-19-
related testing, diagnosis and treatment, as well as paid leave  
during quarantine. 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
124
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
In the U.S., we have offered:
• 100 percent coverage for testing, diagnoses and treatment of 
COVID-19 and telemedicine for any reason through the medical plan
• Onsite daycare centers with expanded safety protocols
• Regular and backup childcare
• Remote tutoring
• Caregiving coordinator for employees and their loved ones
• Flexible Spending Account updates (e.g., allow rollovers and mid-
year changes)
• Free online fitness classes 
• High-quality mental health provider network 
• Mental health training for managers and employees 
• Cares Act 401(k) withdrawals
• Expanded vacation carryover 
Financial security
Worldwide, our company offers core and ancillary financial security and 
retirement benefits that routinely rank amongst the most valuable and 
progressive of other large multinational corporations. Outside the U.S., we have more than 80 pension plans (including 
defined benefit, cash balance, and defined contribution plans) in over 
40 countries. These plans often supplement government-sponsored 
social security pension benefits to improve employees’ financial security 
through added retirement income.
In the U.S., we offer a defined benefit pension plan as well as a 401(k) 
plan with company matching contributions. U.S.-based employees who 
are at least age 55, and those who have at least ten years of service 
after age 40, are eligible for subsidized medical benefits at retirement.
Also in the U.S., we offer:
• Comprehensive financial planning through Ernst & Young (EY), a 
valuable benefit provided to employees at no cost to them, which 
offers assistance with budgeting, saving, investing, estate and tax 
planning, as well as help selecting benefit options and other financial 
planning guidance 
• Educational assistance, which provides financial support for  
higher education
• Access to student loan consolidation and refinancing options
• Banking through our company’s credit union, which offers 
competitive interest rates on savings accounts and lending
Employees and compensation 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Total compensation paid to employees/payroll, 
including benefits (in billions)$7.77 $8.65 $8.98 $9.56 $10.18
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 125
 Overview
Global flexible work arrangements
We believe flexible work arrangements offer a different way of working 
and have the potential to enhance employees’ commitment to the 
company, foster teamwork, increase productivity and support work-life 
effectiveness. The company has had a global flexible work arrangement 
policy since 2008.
In developing our global flexible work arrangement policy, we’ve 
challenged traditional assumptions about where and how work can 
and must be done. Flexibility reflects our belief that job effectiveness is 
determined by employee performance and results, not by the number 
of hours one is seen in the office. What is produced or accomplished is 
more important than when or where the work is done.
Time off and leave policies
For employees outside the U.S., time off and leave benefits are 
based on local laws and market practices. We are in the process of 
implementing global paid parental time off with a 12-week	minimum. 
For U.S.-based employees not subject to a collective bargaining 
agreement, we offer paid time off, leaves of absence and other  
benefits to help employees manage work-life issues. For U.S.-based 
employees who are subject to a collective bargaining agreement,  
time off and leave benefits are offered in accordance with the collective 
bargaining agreement. 
Disclaimer: Benefits vary based on region and country, employee group 
and status, collective bargaining agreements and local legal requirements.
Employee volunteering
Each year, our employees around the world take an active role in giving 
back to their communities by donating thousands of volunteer hours 
to help improve health and wellbeing through a range of volunteer 
activities. However, the COVID-19 pandemic impacted the total 
number of hours volunteered as employees were unable to participate 
in traditional, in-person volunteering and the Fellowship for Global 
Health was paused in 2020.
Fellowship for Global Health
Our mission to save and improve lives underpins the idea behind the 
Fellowship for Global Health.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
126
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
2,600+ hours
of pro bono legal services 
in 2020Skills-based volunteer program
Our skills-based volunteer program offers employees the opportunity 
to donate their professional skills through virtual, short-term projects 
that provide important capacity-building support for nonprofit 
organizations. The program expands opportunities for employees to 
grow and develop, while giving back to the community.
Pro bono legal program
Our company’s pro bono legal program has been serving the poor and 
disadvantaged for 26 years and is led by our Legal department. The 
program provides opportunities for our legal professionals to provide 
their expertise, free of charge, to members of the community who 
would otherwise be unable to access legal advice on a range of issues 
including family law, veterans’ affairs, child advocacy and others. 
Throughout 2020, attorneys, paralegals and administrative associates 
provided more than 2,600 hours of pro bono legal services.
Medical volunteering—COVID -19
In response to the pandemic, our company changed its volunteer 
policy to support employees with medical backgrounds. Recognizing 
the need for additional health care professionals, including doctors, 
nurses and medical laboratory technicians, to assist in regions where 
COVID-19 had spread, we removed the cap of 40 hours of paid time off 
to volunteer for these individuals. In the U.S. for example, employees 
with a medical background reported volunteering 1,224 hours in 2020. 
In 2021, we will continue this policy.
Employee giving summary volunteering12016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Employees who volunteered 216,446 6,560 6,557 14,395 985
Employees who used paid time off (PTO) 314,376 4,870 4,795 7,301 411
Total recorded volunteer hours (TRVH) 1214,862 114,903 114,393 136,014 46,279
Skilled volunteer hours 4 16,726 19,468 18,317 19,907 3,977
1  The	Employee	Giving	Summary	table	has	been	simplified	to	reflect	data	that	is	most	meaningful	to	stakeholders	and	reflects	the	performance	of	our	company’s	volunteering	initiatives.
2  2020	figures	are	based	on	employee	self-recorded	volunteer	hours	and	volunteer	hours	communicated	directly	to	the	Office	of	Social	Business	Innovation	for	certain	countries.	
3  Figures	based	on	estimated	data.
4  Figure	includes	aggregate	reported	hours	from	our	major	skills-based	volunteer	initiatives	–	the	MSD	Fellowship	for	Global	Health,	SkillShare	and	Pro	Bono	Legal	program.	It	also	includes	
hours	recorded	for	U.S.	employees	with	a	health	care	background	who	volunteered	to	assist	with	the	COVID-19	pandemic.The Fellowship for Global Health is a three-month, corporate pro bono 
program designed to leverage the skills and talents of our employees 
worldwide. The company continually seeks innovative ways to increase 
access to health around the world while also growing and developing 
our talent. The Fellowship for Global Health is one way that we can 
accomplish both objectives. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we paused 
the Fellowship program in 2020. However, the program has returned in 
2021 as a virtual opportunity. 
 Learn more about how our Fellows are helping communities.
1,224 hours
volunteered through COVID-19 
medical volunteering program  
in 2020
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 127
 Overview
GRI 401-3 Parental leave
We are in the process of implementing up to 12 weeks of paid parental 
time off for employees who become parents through the birth, 
adoption or surrogacy of a child regardless of the employee's sex, 
marital status, sexual orientation or gender identity.  
In addition to parental leave, U.S. employees receive separate, paid, 
unpaid and job-protected leave to care for a newborn child, adopted 
child or child placed in foster care following the child’s birth. 
Occupational	health	&	safety
GRI 403 Management	approach
As a global health care company, we strive to provide a safe and  
healthy workplace. 
We seek to eliminate work-related injuries, illnesses and unplanned 
events from all aspects of our operations through comprehensive 
safety programs that are part of our Environmental Health and  
Safety (EHS).
Each year, we set targets for leading and lagging safety metrics, 
including safety observations, near-miss reporting, peer safety audits, 
recordable injury rates and days away and reassignment or transferred 
(DART) rate. 
 Please see GRI 403-9 on page 137 for performance on all metrics.
Everyone who works at our sites (i.e., all employees, and non-employees such as partners and contracted workers) must follow the 
standards and requirements of our EHS management system or have 
equivalent programs. Compliance with these requirements is measured 
through the site audit processes for employees and non-employees, 
and through peer reviews for construction. 
 Information on our management approach to occupational health 
and safety, specifically our key operating principles, EHS governance, 
internal auditing and certification is included in GRI 307 on page 110 . 
For more information regarding the occupational health and safety 
expectations in our value chain please refer to our Business Partner Code 
of Conduct. 
International standards 
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our 
employees and contractors, and to complying with all applicable safety 
laws and regulations. In addition, we aim for EHS performance that is 
among the best in the pharmaceutical industry. 
Our company has processes in place that are consistent with the 
International Labour Office (ILO) Code of Practice on Recording  
and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases (the Code) 
where governments have adopted the Code. In countries that have  
not adopted the Code, we report to governments as required by 
applicable law. 
For consistency across the company, and to enable us to compare  
our injury rates with those of other multinational companies, we 
use the U.S.-based OSHA record-keeping criteria for recording and 
tracking work-related injuries and illnesses. We require all injuries, 
illnesses and incidents involving our employees to be reported and 
investigated to determine their cause. We also require actions be taken 
to prevent recurrence. 
We have reviewed the ISO 18001 Standard but have not pursued 
certification at the corporate level because we believe that our 
current EHS management systems are robust and will help us to drive 
continuous improvement in our EHS programs and achieve our desired 
levels of EHS performance. 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
128
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 403-1 Occupational	health	and	safety	management	system
We seek to eliminate work-related injuries, illnesses and unplanned 
events from our operations through comprehensive safety programs 
that are part of our EHS management system. We also work to 
minimize the frequency and severity of safety and environmental 
incidents by focusing on proper facility design, process controls, 
operation and maintenance procedures, protection systems and 
emergency-response capabilities. 
Our global safety program is designed to drive a proactive safety 
culture and reinforce the link between our leadership behaviors and our 
safety and environmental objectives. We believe that through visible 
management, leadership and employee engagement, we can increase 
the awareness of hazards and help employees make the right choices 
when it comes to safety, health and the environment — both on and off 
the job. 
One example of leadership and employee engagement is our active 
safety committees that drive program implementation and address 
safety issues collaboratively between management and employees.
 We address the following areas in our approach to employee and 
contractor safety, which are discussed in more detail in GRI 403-2 on  
page 129 and GRI 403-3 on page 132: 
Process safety (403-2)
Non-routine hazardous work (403-2)
Capital projects construction safety (403-2)
Safety for non-company personnel (403-2)
Motor-vehicle safety (403-2)
Emergency preparedness and response (403-2)
Loss prevention (403-2)
Industrial hygiene (403-3)
Biological safety (403-3)
Ergonomics (403-3)
 For information on our Global Safety and Environment (GSE) EHS 
Management System, please visit GRI 307 on page 110 .GRI 403-2Hazard	identification,	risk	assessment,	and	incident	
investigation
Our process safety program identifies and controls risks associated 
with manufacturing our human and animal health products. The 
program applies not only to operations that are subject to process 
safety regulations, but also to our pilot plants, manufacturing 
operations and utility areas where process hazards may exist. In 
addition, we have implemented a structured chemical-reaction-
hazard review program for our research laboratories.
In the early stages of product development, we conduct chemical 
reaction and thermal testing of our intermediate materials and 
products to identify potential reactivity, fire and explosion hazards 
and environmental risks. This testing continues throughout 
each product’s life cycle to assure that we are aware of and 
can appropriately manage process risks. Global process safety 
professionals work with operations and engineering personnel to 
conduct process hazard analyses and hazard and operability studies 
to thoroughly evaluate our operations. These structured reviews take 
place during process design, initial start-up and throughout the life of 
the process to ensure that our facility design, equipment, operating 
controls and maintenance procedures are effective in controlling 
process-related hazards.
Non-routine hazardous work
In recognition of industrial safety trends and our own internal 
assessments, we have refined our global approach to managing 
safety during non-routine maintenance and repair activities, as these 
work activities are a leading cause of serious and fatal injuries across 
industries. We have developed global safety standards to minimize 
the potential for serious incidents when our employees are working at 
heights, entering confined spaces and working on or near machinery, 
piping and electrical systems. This global effort is focused on creating 
a rigorous, error-free and safe approach to performing these non-
routine, high-hazard work activities.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 129
 Overview
Capital projects construction safety
We have a strong construction safety program with a focus on 
zero harm to people, property and the environment. Our Global 
Engineering Solutions (GES) group oversees hundreds of contractors 
and thousands of skilled craftworkers on our construction projects 
worldwide. Safety is integrated into all stages of our construction 
projects, beginning with the concept and design phases and carried 
through to detailed design and construction.
Our construction safety program mandates pre-job planning, hazard 
assessments and daily safety audits. We also conduct monthly peer 
reviews by bringing together in-house engineers, contractors, EHS 
and other partners to conduct thorough project safety evaluations 
and sharing of best practices. We completed 78 peer safety reviews 
in 2020, covering 91 percent of our active projects.
Within the last two years the construction industry has seen a 
negative trend related to availability of contractor and craft resources. 
The impacts of this trend are management of resource availability 
issues, varied levels of experience and safety competencies.  
GES uses a hyper-care program adding additional supervision 
and safety oversight to new contractors, high-risk work scope 
contractors and less experienced contractor craft. 
Additionally, GES uses a rigorous prequalification program through 
ConstructSecure (external prequalification service/program) to 
evaluate, score and prequalify every contractor and subcontractor. 
ConstructSecure evaluates contractor safety programs, past 
performance, incident rates, experience modifier rate (EMR), training 
verification of craft and reviews any regulatory citations prior to 
allowing them to bid on any projects.
Safety for non-company personnel
We frequently work with integrated facility management (IFM) 
partners whose employees perform work at our sites. Current 
IFM partners were selected at the global level following a detailed 
sourcing process and are managed through a specific governance 
process. The governance process includes dedicated company EHS 
oversight that measures, monitors and evaluates IFM partner EHS performance and adherence to company EHS requirements on an 
ongoing basis, including through the IFM partners’ scorecard. 
These IFM partners are required to follow our company’s EHS 
standards and site level procedures. They are required to identify and 
monitor compliance activities associated with their scope of services 
and meet safety-related performance objectives. 
Our IFM partners prequalify the contractors that they use at our sites, 
ensure those contractors are trained, perform EHS inspections and 
monitor EHS performance. 
IFM partners proactively follow a continuous improvement process 
whereby each year, on top of our company requirements, additional 
targets are set up and monitored at the governance level. 
Contractors working at our sites who are not managed by our IFM 
partners are prequalified using the same process as our embedded 
contractors, including verification of safety training. These contractors 
are assigned internal company liaisons who monitor safety and 
environmental compliance, perform observations of their work and 
verify that necessary corrective actions are taken.
All above referenced contractors are required to report and investigate 
all incidents and near-miss events. They also work with site based EHS 
contacts to identify and implement corrective and preventive actions, 
which are tracked to completion. Contractors are monitored for 
compliance with all EHS requirements.
Motor vehicle safety
The aim of our motor vehicle safety program is to promote a 
strong safety culture for our employees who operate vehicles while 
conducting company business. Our program is designed to reduce the 
frequency and severity of motor vehicle injuries and reduce the number 
of collisions, violations and vehicle-related incidents across our global 
network. We have implemented a global motor vehicle safety standard 
and adopted programs, such as telematics that provide real-time 
continuous feedback, to support safe driving skills and behaviors of 
our sales and marketing employees who operate the majority of our 
business-use vehicles.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
130
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Risk management
Emergency preparedness and response
We prioritize the prevention of incidents through equipment and 
facility design, operational and maintenance procedures and employee 
training. Because we recognize that incidents can still occur, our EHS 
standards require emergency preparedness and response capabilities 
at all of our facilities worldwide.
Our priorities for emergency response include:
• Ensuring the safety and wellbeing of our employees
• Preserving the environment and nearby communities
• Protecting our physical assets
Site-specific emergency-response procedures include incident 
reporting and management, personnel evacuation, medical/first-aid 
response and incident response and control. We routinely conduct 
emergency response drills and train employees in both job- and site-
specific emergency-response duties.
We conduct pre-emergency planning for credible emergency scenarios 
such as process upsets, fires, spills, releases, severe weather and 
security-related incidents.Many of our manufacturing plants have trained emergency response 
teams, and mobile fire and rescue apparatus that can respond to onsite 
fires, medical emergencies, technical rescues and spills/releases. Most 
of our emergency response teams interact directly with their local 
community-based emergency responders, and in some cases, assist 
off-site when requested.
Processes for workers to report work-related hazards and hazardous 
situations, investigate work-related incidents and determine 
corrective actions and improvements needed in the occupational 
health and safety management system are included in EHS emergency 
preparedness and response and incident investigation standards and 
training. These standards also include information on how employees 
are protected against reprisal.
Loss prevention
Protecting our people, facilities, production processes and  
product supply chains from threats such as natural catastrophes  
(i.e., hurricanes, floods, windstorms and earthquakes) and fires  
is critical to ensuring that our products reach our customers  
when needed. We proactively assess and manage these risks at  
our facilities andat several of our strategic third-party manufacturers 
and warehouse providers. 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 131
 Overview
Our loss-prevention program focuses on eliminating or reducing the 
impact of potential loss events by:
• Providing appropriate facility and process designs
• Implementing inspection, prevention and maintenance procedures
• Installing fire suppression, detection and specialized  
protection systems
• Executing emergency response and business continuity programs
We also engage the services of globally recognized loss prevention 
engineering service providers to routinely inspect facilities and review 
new designs and facility modifications. This helps us to maintain a high 
standard of loss prevention that corresponds to the level of operational 
risk, monetary value and supply-chain importance.
GRI 403-3 Occupational	health	services
Occupational health principles apply to all employees and directly 
supervised contingent workers at all levels, and across all divisions in 
the company. We promote compliance with both the letter and the 
spirit of applicable occupational health laws, company policies and 
requirements. We prioritize continuous improvement and assess our 
improvements objectively through internal measurement, external 
benchmarking, incorporating best practices and participating in 
occupational health research where appropriate.
To meet the company’s objectives, we focus on eight key areas:
• Health quality and productivity
• Prevention and risk minimization
• Performance management
• Global standards and communication
• Education and training 
• Management
• Safety
• Global employee health.Health quality and productivity
Our employees are our most valuable asset, and we commit every 
day to preserving their health. We assign employees only to jobs that 
they are physically able to perform. When employees become ill or 
injured, we support their recovery so they can return to work as soon 
as they are medically able to perform their jobs. When an employee 
experiences an occupational injury or illness, we promote and facilitate 
appropriate treatment and rehabilitation.
Prevention and risk minimization
Reducing risk and preventing illnesses and injuries are the best ways 
to maintain the occupational health of our employees. We collaborate 
closely with Global Safety and the Environment organization to identify 
and evaluate potential impacts of our operations on the health of our 
employees to reduce adverse impacts. We take proactive steps to 
prevent occupational injury and illness through our Medical Surveillance 
program. This program evaluates new and existing workplace hazards 
and develops and implements procedures and clinical protocols to 
eliminate them and prevent future occurrences. In the event of an 
occupational injury or illness, we perform joint follow-up investigations 
with Global Safety and the Environment and conduct analyses to 
further refine our preventive efforts and reduce avoidable risks.
Performance management
Our occupational health programs are not static, and we drive 
continuous improvement in their performance. We establish programs, 
policies and procedures that tie our occupational health performance 
to corporate and divisional goals and objectives. We regularly report 
our progress against our goals to management and refine them as 
necessary at regular intervals.
Global standards and communication
We adhere to and promote company goals, programs, procedures and 
policies designed to provide a high level of respect for the health of 
our employees globally. In communication, we foster openness and 
respectful dialogue with our employees, anticipating and responding to 
concerns about our operations.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
132
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Education and training
Well-informed and trained employees provide the backbone for 
maintaining employee health in the workplace. We assist in providing 
appropriate education and training programs for our employees, so 
they understand potential health hazards and necessary precautions 
related to their job duties. To achieve this effectively, we invest in our 
occupational health team’s professional growth to foster business 
excellence in conscientious execution of their responsibilities.
Management
Leaders of employees or managers of other resources are responsible 
for implementing and adhering to local and regional occupational 
health policies. They may also provide input into Global Employee 
Occupational Health policy and strategies that promote the company’s 
occupational health leadership in accordance with our mission and 
values. Similarly, we expect division and business unit leaders to make 
sure their teams provide input to occupational health strategies, 
policies and programs, as appropriate. Above all, they make sure 
their organization provides adequate resources to support and track 
occupational health performance.
Safety
Global Safety and the Environment provides input into Global 
Employee Occupational Health policy and strategies that promote 
the company’s occupational health leadership in accordance with our 
mission and values. Activities include development and implementation 
of Occupational Health Programs, assessing potential workplace 
health hazards (chemical, biological and physical), preventing adverse 
health effects from hazards, evaluating employees’ ability to perform 
job tasks, identifying causal factors associated with injuries and 
illnesses, and working with site health professionals to track the safety 
performance of the company.Global employee health
The Executive Vice President of Human Resources is the senior 
company official who advises the Executive Team on occupational 
health strategies, policies and programs, and reports to the committee 
on occupational health matters that impact employee health and 
human performance. Together, this position and the Vice President of 
Global Safety and the Environment promotes effective collaboration on 
occupational health and safety matters. Their mission is to achieve the 
company’s occupational goals and other relevant safety policies, and to 
provide expert subject matter advice to management.
Global Health Center of Excellence (CoE)
Our Global Health CoE includes our company’s industrial hygiene, 
biological safety and ergonomics programs. By integrating these 
disciplines into a single organization, the company more effectively 
manages worker safety and promotes employee health. The Global 
Health CoE improves worker safety and employee health by focusing 
on four vital areas:
• Governance
• Risk management
• Implementation and operation
• Program management
Through the Global Health CoE, we protect employees, customers, 
vendors, partners and neighboring communities by identifying 
chemical, physical and biological hazards and assessing and properly 
controlling risks. By systematically maintaining rigorous attention 
to sustainable risk management principles and controls, we protect 
our stakeholders worldwide, enabling the organization to focus on 
discovering, developing and providing innovative products and services 
that save and improve human and animal lives around the world.
To accomplish this, we require and expect our stakeholders, executive 
team and ourselves to anticipate hazards, evaluate risks and provide 
effective and sustainable solutions to control both.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 133
 Overview
Industrial hygiene
Our industrial hygiene program protects employee health throughout 
all stages of research and manufacturing. Our professionals identify 
chemical, physical and biological hazards to assess exposures and  
control risks. 
Based on industry-leading best practices, we accomplish this through a 
hierarchy of controls.
These are:
1. Prevention
2. Substitution
3. Engineering
4.  Administrative
5. Personal protective equipment (PPE)
For example, when designing new processes and facilities, we build 
safety into our designs organically by eliminating risks, substituting less 
hazardous processes or materials and installing effective engineering 
and operational controls. We also confirm the ongoing effectiveness of 
these controls after installation through a robust monitoring program.
When addressing existing processes and facilities we use a similar 
approach. First, we seek to eliminate hazardous materials and processes. 
When not possible, we use less hazardous substitutes and then evaluate 
potential engineering controls to mitigate the remaining risk. Where 
engineering controls are insufficient or not feasible, we establish 
effective work practice controls including those that may require 
selected types of PPE.
Nearly 9,000 data points were collected and used during 2020 to 
evaluate risk or to confirm effectiveness of risk reduction investments, 
and 129 risk reduction actions were completed.
Working as a focused cross-functional team, we achieved business 
continuity and uninterrupted supply of products to patients by  
providing pandemic response procedures, supplies and approved 
protective equipment to on-site essential workers. More than  
1,800 inventory items were actively managed with more than  
1,000 shipments of essential supplies shared across the company. 
More than 12 million disposable masks were delivered to workers 
around the globe. In response to PPE scarcity during the pandemic, 315 new alternate PPE products were evaluated with an approval rate 
of 79 percent. Twenty-one percent were rejected as unapproved or 
counterfeit devices.
We developed performance specifications, selected and delivered 
nearly 4 million reusable cloth masks to our workers and their families 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. Wearing reusable masks supports 
our mission to preserve surgical masks and respirators for health 
care workers who need them, and to reduce waste by minimizing 
daily discard of disposable masks. We contributed our mask design 
and performance experience with ASTM International to support 
publication of the new ASTM F3502-21 Standard Specifications for 
Barrier Face Coverings to benefit the global community.
Biological safety
Our biological safety program protects our employees, customers, 
vendors, partners and neighboring communities by systematically 
identifying, assessing and controlling biosafety and biosecurity risks 
associated with the research, development and manufacture of our 
vaccines and therapeutic proteins. Our biological risk management 
12 million+ 
disposable masks 
delivered to workers around  
the globe in 2020
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
134
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
team drives safety by setting high performance expectations for 
governance, controls, strategy, planning, management, reporting, 
policies, processes and corporate culture. 
We strive to integrate biosafety considerations into the culture—  
for our internal and external stakeholders. For example, in 2020, we 
partnered with Global Engineering Services to update our engineering 
design standard that governs fit-for-purpose, large-scale biological 
facility design. 
This enabled our company to establish multiple, production-ready 
facilities for safe development and manufacturing of vaccines and 
therapeutics to combat endemic or emerging infectious diseases  
like COVID-19.
We demonstrate leadership in the field of biosafety by partnering with 
our community of public and private sector biosafety professionals, in 
order to develop guidelines that protect human and animal health and 
the environment. For example, in 2020, we helped the CDC develop, 
“Appendix M, Large Scale Biosafety,” in the CDC/NIH publication, 
Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories (BMBL), 6th 
edition, and contributed to the article “Promoting Biosecurity by 
Professionalizing Biosecurity”, in Science, published February 21, 2020.
We promote a safe environment for our workers and protect the 
healthy living conditions of our neighboring communities. For example, 
our biological safety professionals facilitated 418 biorisk assessments 
to support research and development and manufacturing activities 
across all company divisions. By developing an asset called Biorisk 
Assessment and Repository (BAR), we believe that we have set new 
biorisk management standards in the industry. The tool provides a 
comprehensive repository of biological processes in the company, 
collates lifesaving information that supports first responders and clinicians, manages risk assessment lifecycle and communication within 
the company and provides a comprehensive suite of assessments for 
different units of operation. BAR evaluates biosafety and biosecurity 
risk associated biological materials and establishes risk control 
strategies that protect human health and the environment.
Ergonomics
Our global ergonomics team reduces employee injuries by improving 
process efficiencies and human performance while advancing 
worker wellbeing through adaptation of conditions relating to tasks, 
equipment and the work environment. The ergonomic program 
focuses on the identification and prioritization of highest-risk/highest-
exposure work task in all areas of the organization (manufacturing, 
warehousing, research, sales and support services) to drive down 
injuries and worker discomforts. We also provide standards to ensure 
ergonomic design requirements are incorporated into construction of 
new or renovated facilities to maximize worker comfort and health and 
minimize ergonomics hazards and risk factors. 
Approximately 15 percent of our company’s global, recordable injury 
cases are ergonomic-related; in 2020, the number of recordable 
ergonomic cases decreased 30 percent versus 2019. We have 
achieved a sustainable ergonomic program focused on utilizing a 
team/participatory approach to reduce risk by encouraging employee 
participation in workplace assessments and risk identification, 
and implementation of sustainable engineering controls. Where 
engineering controls are unavailable, administrative and behavioral 
controls are implemented, including but not limited to, job rotation,  
job hazard identification and body mechanics training, to reduce  
risk of ergonomic injury until an engineering control can be identified 
and implemented.
In response to the pandemic, non-essential employees worked 
remotely. To support this change, a remote worker ergonomic 
assessment process was developed and deployed with collaboration 
from IT, Procurement and Live It (Health and Wellbeing group). This 
new process provides worker access to resources that guide proper 
home office workstation setup and identify appropriate equipment and 
solutions needed to maintain a healthy work from home environment.
$5.3 million
worth of PPE and supplies donated in 2020 including:
• Disposable masks
• N95 respirators
• Goggles• Gloves
• Sanitizers
• Coveralls
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 135
 Overview
GRI 403-5 Worker	training	on	occupational	health	and	safety
Training is critical to building worldwide employee competencies 
that will improve compliance, reduce risks and drive continuous 
performance improvement.
We have a global standard that defines the EHS training expectations 
for employees in three categories:
• Manager training covers specific management responsibilities with 
regard to safety and environmental compliance and promoting a 
“safety-first” culture
• EHS professional training is designed to expand technical expertise 
and improve our EHS capabilities around the world
• Employee training covers the specific information our employees 
need to perform their jobs in a safe and environmentally compliant 
manner, focusing on hazards they encounter on the job and the 
corresponding control measures
Site EHS professionals complete an assessment of the activities 
performed at their sites and ensure that relevant topics are included 
in their site training plans. They develop employee training curricula 
to comply with internal and regulatory training requirements specific 
to their country. These training programs are reviewed periodically to 
ensure that they remain current. Our EHS training program materials 
are available in both instructor-led and e-learning formats. We also 
conduct periodic web-based seminars to inform EHS professionals of 
changes in regulations, standards and company practices.
In 2020, with the COVID-19 pandemic, the company ensured social 
distancing during training by modifying classroom training formats 
when in-person training was required, and shifting to web-based 
interactive training modules, where possible.GRI 403-6 Promotion	of	worker	health
Global Employee Health Services provides worker access to 
nonoccupational medical and health care services to address  
major nonwork-related health risks. The team operates both  
globally and locally. 
Global Employee Health provides services that range from the 
administrative—such as medical clearances for job placement and 
evaluations to assess capability to perform a job task, to regulatory 
assessments for potential health hazards and reproductive health 
hazards, to consultations that prevent injury and illness like those 
related to travel and unique workplace hazards, to outright care for 
those suffering a serious injury or illness at work. 
Locally, Global Employee Health supports the company’s people 
through on-site employee health services clinics. These facilities, 
located on many sites, are staffed by dedicated Global Employee Health 
personnel or contractor employees. All facilities provide occupational 
and preventive health services that keep employees healthy, on the job, 
and functioning at optimal capacity. Global Employee Health supports 
many of the programs, including biometric screenings for employee 
personal health assessments, flu and other vaccinations  
and mammograms.
Our most vital occupational health services relate to medical advice 
and consultation, medical evaluations, medical surveillance, care of 
occupational injuries and illnesses, identification and reporting of new 
potential hazards and adverse health effects, emergency medical 
response and–most importantly–prevention.
To develop and maintain awareness of all workplace health hazards, 
Global Employee Health services maintains a close functional working 
relationship with site Management, Safety and Industrial Hygiene 
professionals. We are also responsible for maintaining employee health 
records in accordance with local regulatory requirements. Employee 
health is a vital priority at our company so we continuously improve 
our programs globally and at each site. These efforts range from 
communications for our global policies, procedures and protocols; to 
administering regulatory and compliance audits; to providing critical 
oversight for our occupational health programs.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
136
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 403-9 Work-related	injuries	
GRI 403-10 Work-related	ill	health
In 2020, we placed additional emphasis on proactively assessing 
existing processes and equipment that presented ergonomic risks. 
Formal plans drove risk assessments and an engineering control 
feasibility process was established to better mitigate risk factors 
following the hierarchy of control principles.
We have worked steadily to drive down our workplace injury rates.
In 2020, our lost-time incident rate (LTIR) was 0.05, a 56 percent 
decrease from 2019. Our recordable incident rate (RIR) was 0.16, a  
47 percent decrease from 2019. This is our fourth consecutive year in the 
first quartile when compared against our pharmaceutical industry peers. 
There were no fatalities in 2020. The substantial decrease in the 2020 
LTIR and RIR was due to a large percentage of our workforce working 
from home for the majority of the year due to COVID-19 precautions. In 2020, 29 percent of our recordable injuries were related to slips,  
trips and falls, with “struck-by/caught-in” and ergonomic-related 
injuries accounting for 37 and 15 percent of the total number of injuries, 
respectively. We continue to focus our efforts on reducing these types 
of injuries. In addition to our focus on the safe design of new facilities, 
we proactively address existing risks through the hierarchy of controls, 
focusing on eliminating high-risk tasks, improving engineering 
controls, and performing coaching and training to our workforce to aid 
in identification of risks.
In 2020, we experienced a 27 percent reduction in the collisions per 
million miles (CPMM) indicator. This was due to a 41 percent reduction 
in the number of collisions and 18 percent reduction in miles driven 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic restrictions. In 2020, we focused the 
driver safety program to help our employees to return to work safely, 
including vehicle pre-inspections, vehicle and mobile devices hygiene 
and COVID-19 related safety precautions among others. Our global  
vehicle safety program includes a standard duty of care by holding  
both employees and managers accountable for achieving safe  
driving expectations.
Lost time injuries/
illnesses by  
casual factorsLost Time 
cases% of Lost  
 Time cases1
Slips-trips-fall 16 39.0
Struck-caught 11 26.8
Motor vehicle 4 9.8
Ergonomic 4 9.8
Chemical exposure 3 7.3
Other 1 2.4
Non-ergonomic 1 2.4
Phys/env exposure 1 2.4
Biological exposure 0 0
Total 41Recordable injuries/illnesses  
by casual factors (total:132)% of Total1
Slips-trips-fall 28.8
Struck by/caught in 37.1
Motor vehicle 3.0
Ergonomic 15.2
Chemical/biological exposure 6.1
Other 7.6
Non-ergonomic 1.5
Physical/environmental exposure 0.8
1  May	not	total	100	percent	due	to	rounding.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 137
 Overview
			Note:	Injury	rates	are	subject	to	change	over	time,	as	new	cases	are	added	and	case	classifications	change	in	accordance	with	our	own	requirements	and	applicable	regulatory	requirements.	
We	report	injury/illnesses	together	in	our	rates	and	analyses.
1 LTIR/RIR:	Calculated	per	OSHA	methodology.
2  The	company	metrics	presented	in	this	table	are	captured	from	the	corporate	managed	data	system.	Newly	acquired	facilities	are	not	included	in	this	data	set.	However,	based	on	
conservative	estimates	of	this	not	yet	included	data,	the	company	would	still	fall	within	the	first	quartile	of	performance	when	compared	with	its	peer	member	companies	in	the	
Pharmaceutical	Safety	Group	(PSG).	
3  In	2018,	one	of	the	fatalities	was	transportation-related	and	the	other	was	high-risk	work	related.
4 CPMM:	Reflects	both	personal	and	business	use	of	company-owned	or	-leased	vehicles.Global safety performance1, 22016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Workplace safety
Recordable incident rate (RIR) 0.35 0.33 0.30 0.30 0.16
RIR percentage change -27% -6% -9% 0% -47%
Lost-time incident rate (LTIR) 0.13 0.13 0.10 0.11 0.05
Fatalities30 0 2 0 0
Motor vehicle safety
Collisions per million miles (CPMM)49.48 7.29 6.93 7.01 5.07Construction
In 2020, we received one safety excellence award for our EMEA/AP 
projects safety management program (3-year period from 2018-2020) 
from the construction user round table (CURT). CURT is a global 
organization that provides an international forum for the exchange 
of information and expertise to improve safety, productivity and 
competitive advantage for the construction industry.
In 2020, we logged 11 million construction hours globally and achieved 
zero injuries on 95 percent of our capital construction projects. Our 
2020 construction safety RIR of 0.60 reflects an increase over our 
2019 rate of 0.42 and just over our 2020 target of 0.55. Our capital 
construction projects also achieved a DART rate of 0.24, which was 
slightly above our 2020 target of 0.23. 
In 2020, we had a 2 million hour increase in the number of construction 
hours, and more capital projects in all regions of the world. In addition, 
the COVID-19 impact, while massive in 2020, did not affect the construction safety performance. Our injury rates continue to improve 
and be significantly better than construction industry averages. 
Construction projects also set a record with 160,000 Tap Ins (safety 
observations) being reported in 2020. 
In 2020, we had two high consequence work-related ill health  
injuries involving one hot-work incident in the Asia-Pacific region. 
Two workers were burned significantly in the event and suffered days 
away from work. In 2020, 95 percent of injuries were injuries suffered 
in low risk/routine tasks. The top two 2020 injury categories included 
slips, trips and falls from the same elevation, and hand and finger cuts 
requiring stitches.
Non-employees
In 2020, our IFM partners had a total RIR of 0.35 and a LTIR of 0.26.  
Our major IFM providers’ injury rates continue to be significantly  
better than industry averages.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
138
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Cases by business area Lost-time cases Recordable cases
Facility Management 2 5
Global Human Health (GHH) 15 25
Global Support Functions (Legal, HR, IT, S&E, et al.) 2 7
Animal Health 3 10
Manufacturing (MMD) 16 77
Research (MRL) 3 8
Total 41 132
Capital projects construction safety1, 22016 2017 2018 2019 2020
RIR 0.53 0.59 0.73 0.42 0.60
DART 30.26 0.32 0.28 0.15 0.24
Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0
Facility management contractor safety42016 2017 2018 2019 2020
RIR N/A N/A 0.71 0.55 0.35
LTIR N/A N/A 0.47 0.42 0.26
Fatalities N/A N/A 0 0 0
		NA:	Not	Available.
		Note:	Incident	rates	are	subject	to	change	over	time,	as	new	cases	are	added	and	case	classifications	change	in	accordance	with	our	own	requirements	and	applicable	regulatory	requirements.	
1 LTIR/RIR:	Calculated	per	OSHA	methodology.
2 Primarily	reflects	capital	projects	over	$100,000	managed	by	our	global	engineering	group.
³	DART:	days	away,	reassigned	or	transferred,	calculated	per	OSHA	300	methodology.
⁴	Incident	rates	for	IFM	partners;	reporting	initiated	in	2018.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 139
 Overview
Training	&	education
GRI 404 Management	approach
Whether we are inventing the next breakthrough treatment 
or simply challenging and supporting one another for ongoing 
development, we lead through a culture of applied curiosity.
The Global Learning and Development (GL&D) organization’s primary 
focus is to enable a diverse and accessible environment in which 
all can learn and thrive. We accomplish this by collaborating with 
business partners across the company to understand and align to 
critical business challenges. Then we design, develop and execute 
innovative learning solutions and experiences to strengthen our 
human capital strategy.  
GL&D ensures all learning opportunities are developed to allow 
for diversity of thought, experience and an enriched accessible 
learning environment. We identify learning needs of our globally 
diverse employee population through extensive discovery of learner 
personas, requirements and environments. Our strategy allows us to 
identify, prioritize, design and develop learning solutions that drive 
results and impact. Solutions include, but are not limited to, building 
leadership and management capability, technical and functional 
reskilling and upskilling.
GL&D understands employee skills and capability must support the 
company’s vision and mission. As a result, we continuously evaluate 
our organizational capability needs and retool the learning culture and 
strategy to support.
GRI 404-1 Average	hours	of	employee	training
GRI 404-2Programs	for	upgrading	employee	skills	and	
transition	assistance	programs
Tools and resources 
Our current talent management practices provide company-
wide performance management, leadership development, talent 
assessments, talent reviews and succession planning. Talent 
management designs and implements the enterprise-wide talent 
development and leadership strategy aligned to business strategy 
in order to retain and attract talent, support and develop a diverse 
workforce and create a strong succession pipeline. Talent practices 
are supported by a human capital management system which enables 
managers and employees to keep track of business and development 
priorities, performance ratings, career aspirations, job experiences, 
skills, language proficiency, certifications and education.
Managers and employees are encouraged to meet throughout the 
year to discuss progress and accomplishments against their priorities. 
Emphasis is placed on creating a culture of ongoing coaching and 
future-focused feedback. At year-end, colleagues summarize 
their achievements and assess the impact they have had on the 
organization, their team and their own development. Managers 
conduct annual performance reviews of employees at all levels (except 
those subject to collective bargaining agreements) to guide individual 
decisions relating to development, compensation and rewards.
Employee performance is measured, in part, by how well employees 
demonstrate the company’s aspirational culture and Ways of Working. 
We seek to emphasize not just what an employee achieves, but also 
how he or she achieves it. Managers gather feedback about their 
colleagues and write performance reviews describing the ways in which 
their team members demonstrated the company’s Ways of Working in 
their accomplishments.
Transition assistance programs may be provided to support employees 
who are exited as part of a company workforce restructuring. Such 
benefits which may include the following, however, are subject to local 
plans, laws and country guidelines:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
140
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
• Severance benefits which may include severance pay based on 
employee level and service
• Outplacement job transition assistance
• Continued health and wellness benefits for a defined period of time
Build the Best Teams & Talent 
This global program is intended to help the organization learn, grow 
and achieve. Based on neuroscience, it gives employees practical 
strategies and tools they can use to effectively share and receive more 
frequent feedback from diverse stakeholders and increase the quality 
of performance conversations.
Management and leadership programs 
Management Foundations is a comprehensive program that focuses 
on building core, common and critical knowledge and skills for new 
managers. Using a variety of learning methods, new managers are 
trained on what they need to know and do to be effective in their role 
and to establish foundational management skills.
Training and education12016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Total course completions for all 
employees (in millions)4.2 5.3 4.4 5.3 7.2
Hours of training for all 
employees (in millions)22.1 2.6 2.2 2.7 3.6
Average course completions  
per employee60 48 43 55 69In addition, we offer programs for experienced managers focused on 
areas like strategic planning, innovation and influencing others.
Team and individual development 
We have programs that provide skill trainings and tools that support 
building and maintenance of effective teams, including Building High 
Performance Teams, Virtual Teaming offerings (for example: Dealing 
with Change, Building Trust and Shifting your Mindset through 
Improvisation), Assessing Team Performance through an online survey 
tool and Insights Discovery.
In addition, individual developmental assessments may be used to 
identify strengths and developmental areas as a way to prepare 
employees for higher-level positions or accelerate performance in 
their current job. These assessments prioritize developing leaders 
who will create a positive work environment and inspire their teams 
to contribute to the company’s goals. Based on an individual’s 
observed behavior, personality or skills these assessments provide 
comprehensive feedback that is used to create an action plan and 
individual development goals.
1  Training	requirements	are	not	based	on	gender	or	other	employee	categories;	thus,	data	is	not	broken	down	as	such.
2  Based	on	average	of	30	minutes	per	course.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 141
 Overview
Individuals may also drive their development by accessing subscribed 
resources found on an internal, central platform.  These resources 
include, but are not limited to:  
• Harvard Management Mentor
• Get Control!
• AchieveForum
• Cultural Navigator 
Employees can register for free events and webinars to drive their 
development in areas of Leadership, Teaming and Professional Skills. 
Training can be done on the learner’s time and focus can be set to 
close areas of development or to further strengthen skills of interest.  
The various platforms offer multi-modal resources with trainings to 
accommodate all schedules.
Key talent focus
We advance the learning and development of our global key talent at 
all levels of the organization to support the advancement of our talent 
pipeline and diversity and inclusion strategy.
The learning experiences include:
General Management Acceleration Program (GMAP)
Our flagship, application-based program to develop future global, 
enterprise-wide leaders. The objective of GMAP is to create a robust 
global acceleration program for internal and external talent, providing 
the right experiences and learning opportunities to help meet our 
future business demand. Successful participants broaden their 
experience and perspective, enhance their leadership abilities and are 
well positioned to move into areas of greater responsibility following 
their rotations.
GMAP performance 2020
Post-program retention 99%
Lateral moves 26%
Promotions 38%The Business Leadership Program
A global, nomination-based program on advanced concepts in business 
and financial management and cross-functional leadership at an 
enterprise-wide level. The program develops leadership capabilities to 
help manage external environmental trends and their potential impact. 
Participants experience the language of finance through simulated 
experiences focused on the fundamentals of a company’s balance 
sheet, income statement and cash flow, how to integrate long-term 
plans with short-term action and how to create a strategy that will 
drive decisions.
Business Leadership Program 2020
Post-program retention 87%
Lateral moves 39%
Promotions 38%
Leadership Pathway
The Leadership Pathway focuses on director-level key talent.  
The purpose is to develop individuals to be change makers who 
engender inclusion and trust; inspire experimentation, feedback  
and learning; and achieve aspirational business outcomes for the 
company today and tomorrow.
Leadership Pathway 2020
Post-program retention 100%
Lateral moves 21%
Promotions 28%
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
142
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
The Women’s Leadership Program
A global, nomination program focused on enhancing women’s key 
capabilities to recognize and seize strategic career opportunities by 
developing critical capabilities and confidence while contributing to 
core objectives of our company. Areas of focus include strengthening 
the ability to navigate within the organization while maintaining an 
authentic leadership style, increasing cultural competence regionally, 
advancing skills in influencing and storytelling, advancing the ability to 
recognize and manage gender differences and subtle “micro-inequities” 
by leading through courageous action.
Women’s Leadership Program 2020
Post-program retention 83%
Lateral moves 41%
Promotions 32%
Diverse Leader Program (U.S. only)
This thought-provoking nomination program is an interactive 
leadership journey designed to create a safe place where participants 
can hone their leadership skills while exploring what it means to be  
a person of color in a leadership role within the company. While 
building leadership proficiency, participants investigate the similarities 
and differences of leaders from other racial and ethnic groups, and 
deepen relationships with their mentors through hands-on activities 
and conversations.
Diverse Leader Program 2020
Post-program retention 90%
Lateral moves 34%
Promotions 32%Rise 
An exclusive experiential program leveraging some of the best-in-class 
institutions from around the world, designed for our executive directors 
and associate vice president talent. This program increases our 
company’s talent pipeline and succession planning for critical roles with 
focus on critical leadership capabilities. This program submerges leaders 
into creative and critical thinking environments, while cracking real-
world challenges to amplify their enterprise view in preparation for 
future upward succession. The participants have influence to drive 
productive change, to attract, retain, lead and develop diverse talent, 
and ultimately to drive business results. We view this talented group as 
change agents who can lead the organization into the future.
Rise   
(formerly Enterprise Leadership Program)2020
Post-program retention 77%
Lateral moves 39%
Promotions 45%
Executive Acceleration Experience 
An inspiring and actionable learning experience designed to help   
our company’s senior leaders further embed and amplify their 
leadership capabilities. The experience involves small cohorts being 
immersed in a variety of leadership principles, looking outside the 
company for broader inspiration and devising experiments they can  
run with their teams. 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 143
 Overview
Promotion metrics12019 2020
Men 47% 48%
Women 53% 52%
1“Executives”	refers	to	the	first	two	organizational	levels	below	the	chief	executive	officer.
2All	“non-managers”	(previously	“individual	contributors”)	including	those	who	are	subject	to	a	collective	bargaining	agreement	(unions).Our partners 
Through careful consideration, partnerships have been formed with 
global diverse thought leaders to support the Key Talent Portfolio. We 
work with these external partners to provide the highest quality and 
impactful learning experience.
Examples of our partnerships include:
• Duke Corporate Education• Saïd Business School and the University of Oxford
• Cornell University
• Center for Creative Leadership
• Stanford University
 For more information on our training and education efforts and 
programs, please see GRI 102-17 on page 38.
1Breakdown	by	gender,	of	all	regular	employees	promoted	during	the	fiscal	year.	“Regular	employees”	is	defined	as	full	and	part-time	employees	only.	
GRI 404-3Percentage	of	employees	receiving	regular	
performance	reviews
Performance reviews 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Executives1100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Middle management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Line supervisors 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Non-managers294% 93% 94% 94% 95%
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
144
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Promotion metrics12019 2020
Men 47% 48%
Women 53% 52%
Performance reviews 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Executives1100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Middle management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Line supervisors 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Non-managers294% 93% 94% 94% 95%In 2020, as in years past, the percentage of performance reviews 
has held steady for managers and employees. As a company we 
continue to utilize our current talent management system which 
supports company-wide performance management, development, 
talent reviews and succession planning. It helps ensure that our 
workforce is aligned with company objectives and focused on their 
ongoing professional development. The system allows managers 
and employees to keep track of business and development priorities, 
performance ratings, career aspirations, job experiences, skills, 
language proficiency, certifications and education.
Throughout the year, managers are encouraged to discuss with each of 
their employees his or her strengths and development opportunities to 
align on ways to grow capabilities and skills.
Diversity	and	equal	opportunity
GRI 405 Management	approach
In 2020, our strong foundation in global diversity and inclusion (GD&I) 
uniquely positioned us to address the needs of employees, customers 
and the patients we ultimately serve. We took necessary steps during 
uncertain times to accelerate and amplify our company commitment to 
create a more diverse and inclusive workplace. From supporting our 
employees through the pandemic, addressing the increased attention 
given to racial justice issues, continuing our work to address pay equity, 
and fostering disability and LGBTQ inclusion, we met the challenges of 
2020 with purpose, integrity and strategic intent. 
Our ability to accomplish our objectives is linked to the GD&I 
Strategy—our framework for sustainable competitive advantage. 
Through it, we align with our mission to save and improve lives, and 
our purpose to create an environment of belonging, engagement, 
equity and empowerment that compels a globally diverse and inclusive 
workforce which works to improve patient health. 
$2 billion+
 in supplier diversity spend in 2020
Our business objectives for diversity and inclusion are fully aligned 
to drive long-term, sustainable business performance. In addition, 
our objectives for diversity and equal opportunity support the SDGs 
of advancing gender equality, providing decent work and economic 
growth, reducing inequalities within and among countries and 
strengthening global partnerships.
Our GD&I strategic framework focuses on the following priorities:
• Continue to build the diversity and inclusion capabilities of our  
global workforce
• Ensure accountability at all levels of the organization
• Integrate diversity and inclusion into our business practices to  
drive performance
• Work to influence the environment, culture and business landscape 
to help achieve a more inclusive and sustainable world
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 145
 Overview
GD&I ambassador teams
Our GD&I CoE oversees diversity and inclusion across all business 
practices and systems. The CoE leverages five diversity ambassador 
teams to ensure integration into our business and people strategies. 
The Global Disability Inclusion Strategic Council
The Council recognizes and values the importance of a disability-
confident workforce and understands how full inclusion of people 
with disabilities increases creativity and innovation for its employees, 
customers, external partners and suppliers.
The GD&I Extended Human Resources Leadership Team
This team of Human Resources professionals supports the global 
organization by ensuring the successful adoption and integration 
of diversity and inclusion capabilities into all practices, programs, 
procedures and systems. A key outcome is to enable a diverse and 
inclusive culture — one that attracts, engages, develops, motivates  
and retains top talent globally.
Employee Business Resource Group (EBRG) Executive 
Leadership Council
With ten EBRGs representing different constituencies, the Council of 
global EBRG leaders work together to support over 21,000 members 
worldwide, strengthen and diversify the global leadership pipeline and 
provide culturally relevant insights that drive our success.
GD&I Business Consortium
This Consortium, comprised of members from Business Strategy, 
Supplier Diversity, Clinical Trials and other key business functions, 
enhances our business performance through GD&I best 
practices — creating a competitive business advantage and driving 
shareholder value. Our company’s chief finance officer acts as the 
Consortium’s executive sponsor.
GD&I Line Advisory Council
Serving as an advisory role to the vice president, GD&I CoE, the  
Council provides input and feedback on the GD&I strategy and key 
initiatives and offers perspectives on areas of progress, as well as 
opportunity, in relation to integrating GD&I into the company’s 
business and people strategies.Governance and commitments 
GD&I is a strategic business lever for performance—endorsed at the 
highest levels of the organization. Diversity and inclusion represent a 
key dimension of our commitment to our ESG goals.
Our Board of Directors has a clearly stated Diversity Policy, which 
recognizes that maintaining a truly diverse membership, including 
educational and professional background, gender, race, age, sexual 
orientation, ethnic and national background and other differentiating 
personal characteristics promotes inclusiveness, enhances the Board’s 
deliberations, and contributes to the Board’s overall effectiveness 
to better represent the long-term interests of the company and 
its shareholders. We stand ahead of our industry peers in the 
representation of women on the board. 
Our commitment to GD&I is further reinforced by our CEO. Our 
company’s CEO advocates for diversity and inclusion as a strategic 
business imperative through the following commitments:
• Approving diversity metrics and reviewing progress against 
aspirational talent goals for women and under-represented ethnic 
groups (UEGs) 
• Driving accountability through meetings with the company’s leaders 
and engaging employees in company-wide events to review key 
strategic initiatives centered on GD&I
• Conferring with the company’s vice president of human resources 
and chief diversity officer on innovation opportunities and  
business solutions
• Leading authentic listening sessions with employees to engage  
on topics related to social injustice
Equitable pay 
We have had a longstanding commitment to diversity and inclusion 
and fair and equitable pay. This commitment is consistent with our 
core values of integrity, fairness, and treating all people with dignity 
and respect. Having the right culture, systems and practices for talent 
recruitment and development are critical in driving our company’s 
ability to compete in global markets where talent is increasingly scarce 
and increasingly diverse. Diversity, equity and inclusion are ethical and  
strategic imperatives.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
146
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Pay equity is a very important principle at our company. We regularly 
monitor and evaluate our pay practices and policies to ensure that we 
are paying equitably. 
We chartered a Pay Equity Council which is chaired by our chief 
diversity and inclusion officer and our SVP of Global Compensation and 
Benefits and is comprised of leaders across GD&I, Compensation and 
Benefits and Employment Legal. 
We have developed guidance to assist our recruiting team in making 
hiring pay decisions based on skills, work experience and other job-
related factors.
We look for opportunities to train our managers on our compensation 
strategy and programs to ensure their decision-making process is 
based on legitimate job-related criteria and not personal characteristics 
such as gender, race or ethnicity. 
Pay equity is a topic that is rightly receiving a great deal of attention 
and scrutiny. While many other organizations have only recently begun 
to explore how to pay their employees equitably, providing fair and 
equitable pay is one of the pillars of our compensation philosophy. 
We have engaged external experts and legal partners to conduct 
annual pay equity studies in the U.S., and we are conducting similar 
studies in multiple countries around the world. These studies allow us 
to make any necessary adjustments in order to ensure we continue 
to pay our employees equitably and fairly. By the end of 2021, we 
expect that our pay equity studies will cover 75 percent of our global 
population, and we have plans to further expand the scope of these 
studies in the coming years.
Our continuing focus on pay equity furthers our goal of being the 
employer of choice for employees of diverse backgrounds, and it 
supports our efforts to attract and retain the best talent and reward 
performance consistent with our Leadership Standards. These are 
clear business imperatives for our company and we remain firmly 
committed to them.Initiatives to help build a more  
inclusive workforce
We focus our efforts to create a work environment where  
everyone has access to the same opportunities. 
Gender equality is addressed at all levels of the organization  
and a number of resources and development programs are  
provided including: 
The Merck Women’s Network, one of ten Employee Business Resource 
Groups (EBRGs) at the company, is designed to develop and empower 
women within the organization. 
The Women in Leadership Program is a global, nomination  
initiative designed to support the advancement of women into  
senior leadership ranks.
The Emerging Women’s Leadership Program is designed for female 
professionals to begin to develop their capabilities to take on critical 
leadership roles in the future.
The Re-invent Program recognizes that a disproportionate number 
of women take breaks throughout their career and that re-entering 
the workforce can sometimes mean taking a step back. In partnership 
with the Society of Women Engineers (SWE), our company offers 
the Re-Invent Program, where individuals who have taken a pause in 
their careers can return in an internship role to a new position in the 
company. This provides the individual with new work experience and 
enables a manager to assess performance of the individual, as well. 
Our Diverse Leaders Program is an interactive leadership journey 
designed to create a safe place where leaders of color—both men and 
women—can hone their leadership skills while exploring what it means 
to be a person of color in a leadership role within the company.
Our company’s external commitments to pay equity and gender 
equality include the following:
2020 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index
Our company was named to the 2020 Bloomberg Gender-Equality 
Index (GEI) which recognizes companies committed to transparency  
in disclosing gender-related metrics and investment in workplace 
gender equality. 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 147
 Overview
Paradigm for Parity
In 2018, we signed on to support Paradigm for Parity—a call-to-action 
and model for gender equality. The goal of the coalition is to achieve 
full gender parity by 2030, with a near-term goal of women holding at 
least 30 percent of senior roles. We have deepened our engagement 
with P4P through our implementation of the five-point action plan to:
• Minimize or eliminate unconscious bias
• Significantly increase the number of women in senior operating roles
• Measure targets at every level and communicate progress and 
results regularly
• Base career progress on business results and performance,  
not on presence
• Identify women of potential and give them sponsors,  
as well as mentors
United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles
We continue tracking our progress against the United Nations 
Women’s Empowerment Principles. These principles reflect seven 
areas of focus designed to promote gender equality in business. 
Research shows that at the current rate of progress, it will take 
202 years for women to achieve economic parity. The full economic 
participation of women in the workforce will generate $12 trillion to 
$28 trillion in GDP.1 
We remain committed to equity across gender, race and ethnicity 
as a strategy to drive business results and advance our mission. We 
continue to establish leadership programs to promote equality and 
publicly report on our progress to achieve gender equality. Examples of 
how we achieve this objective, and our broader diversity and inclusion 
commitment, are as follows:
Gender sensitive recruitment and retention
Talent acquisition plays a pivotal role in sourcing and attracting  
diverse talent and in consulting with hiring managers to eliminate 
unconscious bias in the selection process. Using a gender decoder 
tool for job postings, biased language is highlighted with suggested 
alternative wording, helping to create gender neutral and inclusive  
 job descriptions.D&I capability building, networking  
and mentorship opportunities 
In 2021, to support the learning and development of global employees, 
we launched the Understanding your Role in Creating a Diverse and 
Inclusive Workplace  myLearning course to strengthen our diversity 
and inclusion focus by continuing to build capabilities, awareness and 
education so we can nurture and grow a more inclusive culture within 
our company. 
Support for working parents and caregivers
Using multiple listening methods—from employee focus groups, to 
frequent pulse checks, to employee surveys—we created a pathway 
to hear directly from the workforce on issues and challenges of 
importance so that we could leverage employee input in the design and 
development of resources and benefits to best support their needs. 
 To learn more about how we support employee wellbeing,  
please see GRI 401-2 on page 123. 
Zero-tolerance policy against violence and 
harassment at the workplace
In 2020, our company’s policy for Prevention of Harassment, 
Discrimination and Bullying in the Workplace was updated to  
include a section on Workplace Violence in the U.S. version  
(including Puerto Rico), as well as other applicable regional policies. 
Opportunities for people with disabilities
We reinforce this potential through a culture of transparency and 
pledge alliance with external organizations that have a shared vision  
for full disability inclusion.
1The	power	of	parity:	How	advancing	women’s	equality	can	add	$12	trillion	to	global	growth
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
148
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Disability: IN
Our company was recognized by Disability:IN® as the 2020 Employer 
of the Year for our exemplary policies, strategies and initiatives that 
have resulted in measurable results in areas of disability inclusiveness 
in the workplace, marketplace and supply chain.
Valuable 500
Our company announced its membership in The Valuable 500 in 
January 2020. The Valuable 500 is dedicated to unlocking the 
business, social and economic value of people living with disabilities, 
ensuring women and individuals with disabilities are provided ample 
resources to thrive in the workplace. 
Mental health
One Mind at Work — Mental Health
Our company’s CEO signed the One Mind at Work Charter pledging 
to make mental health a priority by protecting, supporting and 
enhancing employee wellbeing in the workplace. Through One 
Mind at Work, which leverages the support of The Kennedy Forum, 
we collaborate with One Mind at Work to enable broad-scale 
transformation in how mental health is viewed and approached in 
the workplace, and how we can gain equity, collaboration and parity 
between physical and mental health.
R U OK? Mental Health and Wellness
During 2020, and in response to struggles with stress and emotional 
wellbeing, particularly due to the global pandemic, we introduced a 
new program, R U OK? Day Mental Health and Wellness e-Learning 
for Managers. The e-Learning program, R U OK?, provides facts, 
talking points and tips managers can use with team members to 
discuss emotional wellbeing and mental health. It is one more way we 
are promoting a culture of wellbeing and inclusiveness as part of LIVE 
IT, our holistic approach to wellbeing.
Digital accessibility
While teams across the company have been practicing digital 
accessibility with varying capabilities and methods, in 2020 a new 
company-wide policy was launched to aligns these teams under a common set of standards and procedures. The Web Content 
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), the international standard from 
which the new company-wide policy is based, details how to design 
and develop our web enabled products and services, electronic 
documents and software for digital accessibility. These guidelines 
allow people with disabilities to equally perceive, understand, 
navigate and interact with our company’s websites and tools.
Addressing injustice and disparity
Systemic racial injustices and disparities were among the polarizing 
and major news events characterizing 2020. These events, prompted 
by the widely publicized incidents of racism and discrimination, 
enabled our employees to leverage our ongoing efforts to provide 
a psychologically safe place for employees to have bold, inclusive 
conversations and engage in constructive dialog with peers and 
teams about the significance of these events. 
We responded in several ways: 
• Kenneth C. Frazier was among the first CEOs to address their 
employees about racial injustice, and also make a public statement 
about systemic racism
• Leaders participated in listening, learning and action sessions to 
address unconscious bias, discrimination and exclusion, while 
asking their employees to do the same
• Updates were provided to the Board of Directors on our ongoing 
efforts to address social injustice both internally and externally
• Chapter leaders from our EBRGs, including the League of 
Employees of African Descent (LEAD), Alianza and the Asia 
Pacific Association (APA), met with members and leaders to host 
courageous conversations in a safe, open setting
• In response to the anti-Asian events, we created space for dialogue 
about how each of us can work to create a safer and more equitable 
company community and society
• We provided Resources for Living, an employee assistance 
program, to help our employees cope with trauma and  
anxiety associated with social and racial unrest during a  
socially isolated time
• Delivered weekly Bold & Inclusive Conversations training sessions 
to build capabilities of managers and employees globally
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 149
 Overview
We enhanced collaboration and alliances with key external partners 
on diversity and inclusion, including:
CEO ACT!ON for Diversity and Inclusion®
Our company has been among the earliest members of this 
organization, pledging in 2017 to reach diversity and inclusion goals. 
With the elevated social media unrest and news prompted by the 
killing of George Floyd in 2020, we deepened our engagement 
with this organization to drive change. We participated in “A Day 
of Understanding,” candid dialogue to bring people together, 
and offer unconscious bias education to all employees within the 
global enterprise to build awareness of ways to mitigate bias in the 
workplace and foster inclusion.
In response to external unprecedented events, we renewed and 
reaffirmed our commitment to accelerating representation in areas 
where there was underrepresentation for various populations, 
including women, Asian, Black/African American and Latino 
populations. We accelerated our commitment to Black/African 
American and Latino talent, and deepened our investments and 
outreach with Black and Latino populations. We worked diligently 
to build the pipeline of African American/Black and Latino executive 
and emerging leaders to reflect the availability of external talent.
These investments include strategic alliances with the  
following organizations:
MANRRS
Our company’s Animal Health Division partners with Minorities in 
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Related Sciences (MANRRS) 
to identify diverse talent from the agricultural sciences and related 
fields and to expose them to the variety of career paths available in 
addition to the veterinarian field. Technology, animal intelligence, 
smart data products and services for the management and 
wellbeing of livestock, fish and pets—areas where Merck  
Animal Health Intelligence (MAHI) is a global, world-class  
leader—are examples of exciting career paths that are available 
to today’s talent, but where awareness is low. To deepen its 
investment with MANRRS, Merck is a platinum sponsor of the 
organization conferences. Year-Up
Our company is among the more than 250 corporations partnering 
with an innovative nonprofit organization, Year Up. This nonprofit 
ensures equitable access to economic opportunity, education and 
justice for all young adults—no matter their background, income or  
zip code. They accomplish this goal by closing the opportunity gap  
in the job market for economically disadvantaged youth by offering  
six months of intensive training and a six-month corporate internship 
in information technology, financial operations, sales and customer 
support, business operations or software development and support 
at major corporations. To date, 24 student internships have been 
provided through Year-Up by our company.
Expanding our pipeline of diverse talent
In 2020, we greatly expanded outreach to Historically Black Colleges 
and Universities (HBCUs) by partnering with several organizations, 
including the College Diversity Network and the National Urban 
League, to focus on building deep partnerships with colleges, students, 
faculty and alumni of HBCUs. 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
150
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
We also focus on systemic barriers that limit the candidate pool based 
on geographic location of open positions and talent residency, and job 
prerequisites of having prior pharmaceutical experience. To broaden 
our access to diverse talent, we post some positions with an option 
to work virtually, offer relocation services and are agnostic to prior 
pharmaceutical experience. We leverage key partnerships such as:
• Executive Leadership Council (ELC)
• INROADS College Links
• National Urban League
• ALPFA
• National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering (NACME)
• Ascend
• Out & Equal
• Disability:IN
• Best Buddies
• The International Labour Organization (ILO) Global Business  
and Disability Network (GBDN)
• Women of Color In Pharma (WOCIP)
Measuring for impact
We establish clear, measurable goals with our leaders and throughout 
the business enterprise in the following areas:
Women and under-represented ethnic group (UEG) 
representation
Leaders and managers are highly encouraged to incorporate clear 
diversity and inclusion goals as part of their annual performance 
priorities and reviews. In addition, we utilize specific, time-bound 
action plans with aspirational targets to increase the representation 
of women globally and UEGs in the U.S. leadership positions. We have 
diversity metrics and review progress against aspirational talent goals 
for women and UEGs at the most senior levels of the organization.Fostering a culture of inclusion
Leaders and managers are held accountable for maintaining an 
inclusive culture across the business enterprise. We acknowledge 
those who excel in demonstrating inclusive behavior through the 
company’s INSPIRE Awards. Launched in 2019, INSPIRE fosters a 
culture of recognition and engagement by empowering all employees 
to recognize others. By the end of 2020, INSPIRE recorded over 
300,000 recognition moments across 85 countries. 
 Learn more about how we engage with employees in GRI 401  
on page 118.
Economic inclusion, health equity and 
workforce development 
In 2020, a cross-functional working Council was chartered to improve 
coordination of the company’s longstanding global efforts in health 
equity, economic inclusion and external workforce development. 
Economic inclusion
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion includes providing decent 
work and economic inclusion for diverse suppliers, including minority, 
women, veteran, LGBT and people with disability-owned businesses, 
as well as small business enterprises. During 2020, the company’s 35th 
anniversary of the Economic Inclusion & Supplier Diversity (EI&SD) 
program, we exceeded our corporate goal of $2 billion in the U.S. and 
achieved an economic impact of $4.8 billion, with over 30,000 jobs 
being sustained and created by our diverse suppliers. 
We further deepened access for economic inclusion during 2020 by 
introducing the first virtual engagement Opportunity Fair, entitled,  
“It begins with Me.” More than 2,000 U.S. and global company 
category managers and stakeholders participated in this Opportunity 
Fair to, “Meet a supplier, Mentor a supplier or Measure impact.”  
As a result of the Opportunity Fair, 426 capability statements from 
diverse suppliers were obtained, representing further opportunity for 
economic inclusion development and growth. 
 For more information on our supplier diversity program, please see 
GRI 414 on page 157 .
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 151
 Overview
Health equity
U.S.	clinical	operations
We have set goals to ensure appropriate diversity representation of 
patients participating in clinical trials in relevant therapeutic areas. 
 Learn more about our commitment to diversity in clinical trials  
on Merck.com.
Workforce development 
OneTen 	
In 2020, Kenneth C. Frazier, our company’s chairman, signed on as 
co-chair for OneTen, a new initiative that aims to close the opportunity 
gap for Black women and men in America and to make a meaningful, 
measurable and lasting systemic impact on racial and economic justice. 
Recognizing that the current system has reinforced systemic barriers that have prevented many Black Americans from the opportunity to 
earn success, OneTen has set out to change the way companies provide 
more equitable environments to drive better business outcomes and 
benefit all employees. 
 Learn more about the OneTen initiative here.
INROADS	College	Links 	
Since 2019, we have partnered with INROADS, an international 
nonprofit organization that prepares talented, diverse youth for 
corporate and community leadership, and launched a yearlong College 
Links program for high school students in Newark, New Jersey, to 
increase college and career readiness.
 To learn more about our training and development programs for 
employees, please see GRI 404 on page 140 .
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
152
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
GRI 405-1 Diversity	of	governance	bodies	and	employees
Female representation, 
by job category (global)2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Board 23% 23% 33% 46% 46%
Executives122% 22% 20% 20% 33%
Senior management225% 25% 27% 30% 31%
All managers339% 39% 41% 42% 42%
All employees 48% 49% 49% 49% 49%
New hires 51% 49% 51% 51% 50%
Promotions 51% 52% 52% 53% 52%
Underrepresented 
ethnic group (UEG) 
representation, by job 
category (U.S.)2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Board 23% 15% 17% 23% 31%
Executives133% 33% 30% 40% 25%
Senior management215% 17% 19% 21% 20%
All managers319% 20% 22% 23% 24%
All employees 25% 26% 28% 29% 30%
New hires 33% 37% 36% 35% 40%
Promotions 25% 28% 28% 30% 32%
	Note:	Our	company	has	publicly	disclosed	EEO-1	information	since	1999.	Our	2020	data	is	available	on	the	ESG	Resources	page	of	our	corporate	website.	 
	All	Board	figures	above	are	derived	from	our	proxy	statement	filed	the	following	year.	All	other	figures	are	as	of	December	31,	2020.
1	“Executive”	is	defined	as	the	executive	team	who	reports	to	the	chief	executive	officer.
2	“Senior	management	team”	is	defined	as	vice	presidents	and	above,	not	on	executive	team.
3	“Management	role”	is	defined	as	all	other	managers	with	at	least	one	direct	report.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 153
 Overview
Underrepresented ethnic group (UEG) 
representation, by ethnicity (U.S.) Total Black/ 
African 
AmericanLatino/ 
HispanicAsian All Other
Board 31% 31% 0% 0% 0%
Executives125% 20% 0% 5% 0%
Senior management220% 3% 5% 11% 1%
All managers324% 5% 5% 13% 1%
All employees 30% 8% 5% 15% 2%
New hires 40% 11% 7% 19% 3%
Promotions 32% 9% 6% 15% 2%
	Note:	Our	company	has	publicly	disclosed	EEO-1	information	since	1999.	Our	2020	data	is	available	on	the	ESG	Resources	page	of	our	corporate	website	. 
	All	Board	figures	above	are	derived	from	our	proxy	statement	filed	the	following	year.	All	other	figures	are	as	of	December	31,	2020.
1	“Executive”	is	defined	as	the	executive	team	who	reports	to	the	chief	executive	officer.
2	“Senior	management	team”	is	defined	as	vice	presidents	and	above,	not	on	executive	team.
3	“Management	role”	is	defined	as	all	other	managers	with	at	least	one	direct	report.
Human	rights	assessment
GRI 412 Management	approach
As stated in our Human Rights Public Policy Statement —we strive to 
avoid causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts through 
our own activities and seek to prevent or mitigate adverse impacts that 
are directly linked to our operations and products.  
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
154
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Human rights issue Policies / standards Governance
Lead function
Health & safety X X X X Global Safety & Environment
Forced labor & human trafficking X X Human Resources
Discrimination & harassment X X X Human Resources
Child labor X X Human Resources
Freedom of association X X Human Resources
Working hours X Human Resources
Privacy X X X Global Privacy Office
Security X X X Global Security
Access to Grievance Mechanisms X X X X X X X X X X Office of Ethics
Suppliers & Business Partners X X X Global Supplier ManagementHuman Rights  
Public Policy
Human  
Resources Policy
Labor & Human 
Rights Policy
Health &  
Safety Policy
Procurement & Supplier 
Relations Policy
Business Partner 
Code of Conduct
Information Management 
& Protection Policy
Privacy & Data 
Protection Policy
Reporting & Responding 
to Misconduct Policy
Prevention of Violence in 
Workpace Standard
Possession of Firearms 
StandardWe’ve put in place appropriate policies, processes, training and monitoring systems to address key human rights issues. Support and respect for the 
protection of human rights is embedded and reflected in our operational policies and procedures, as summarized in the table below.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 155
 Overview
Remedy
As part of our efforts to protect against business-related human rights 
abuses, we have established a company-based grievance mechanism 
that allows employees and workers to report concerns in a confidential 
manner without fear of retaliation (see the Speak Up section in our 
human rights policy). 
Our company-based grievance mechanism and associated reporting 
channels are fundamental to ensuring that employees and workers 
have access to effective remedy whenever human rights impacts occur. 
We expect our suppliers to encourage all workers to report concerns 
or suspected illegal activities without threat of reprisal, intimidation or 
harassment, and to investigate and take corrective action if needed. In 
addition, we expect them to provide workers with information on how 
to confidentially report concerns, and ensure that reporting workers 
are protected from retaliation.
Governance
Our oversight and monitoring of business-related human rights risks is 
supported by relevant internal functions and business units, including 
Human Resources, Global Safety & Environment; Global Supplier 
Management; Supply Chain Management, Ethics & Compliance; 
Global Security, Global Privacy Office, Information Risk Management; 
Enterprise Risk Management, Office of Ethics and the Office of Social 
Business Innovation. 
GRI 412-1Operations	that	have	been	subjected	to	human	
rights	reviews
We perform supplier labor and human rights audits (using independent 
third-party service providers) at select direct material suppliers’ 
facilities located in countries that are known to present an increased 
risk of human rights abuses (See Supplier Social Assessment section).  
 For more information, please see GRI 414 on page 157 .GRI 412-2Employee	training	on	human	rights	policies	 
and	procedures
Business-related human rights issues are embedded within our 
internal training programs to help maintain employee awareness and 
understanding of our company’s expectations. Examples of human 
rights related topics covered by existing training programs include 
health and safety, privacy and data protection, harassment and 
discrimination, diversity and inclusion, as well as training that explains 
and how to confidentially report concerns, emphasizing the importance 
of speaking up. Completion of assigned training is closely monitored 
and reported.
 For more information on our training and development programs, 
please see GRI 404 on page 140 .
GRI 412-3Investment	agreements	and	contracts	that	include	
human	rights	clauses	or	underwent	screening	
Agreements and contracts 
Our Global Supplier Management Group (GSMG) function oversees 
contract development and execution activities associated with 
the sourcing and selection of our suppliers of goods and services. 
(See Supplier Social Assessment section.) 
Through our standard contracts and agreements, we seek a written 
commitment from suppliers to respect and abide by the principles set 
forth in our company’s Business Partner Code of Conduct (BPCC). 
Our Business Partner Code of Conduct states that business  
partners are expected to uphold the human rights of workers and 
treat workers with dignity and respect the protection of internationally 
proclaimed human rights and ensure that they are not complicit in 
human rights abuses.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
156
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Supplier	social	assessment
GRI 414 Management	approach
Supplier due diligence assessment for labor 
practices and human rights
We respect human rights and support transparency in our supply 
chain. We are committed to upholding the Pharmaceutical Supply 
Chain Initiative (PSCI) Principles, and we require our suppliers to 
operate in compliance with all applicable laws. We have a formal 
program led by our Global Supplier Management Group (GSMG) to 
evaluate the risks for labor and human rights (LHR) in our supply chain. 
Our policies
Our policies serve as our standards of conduct for engaging with 
stakeholders. They are founded on our Code of Conduct (Our Values & 
Standards) and are used to navigate and guide our decisions. They help 
us identify, address and mitigate risks.
 For information on our policies, please visit our Policies & Positions 
and ESG Resources pages of our corporate website.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 157
 Overview
Human rights and labor risks
We recognize that companies with supply chains that extend into high-
risk countries potentially face greater LHR risks. Our company can be 
exposed to these risks through our supply chain, as some of our third 
party suppliers and service providers operate in higher-risk countries. 
To help manage and address potential risks associated with third-party 
business relationships, GSMG has an established a cross-functional, 
third-party risk management committee and program. LHR risks are 
considered as part of our third-party risk management activities. We 
also recognize that potential risks may exist beyond Tier 2 suppliers. 
During 2020, we worked to detect and address the risks in our supply 
chain by: 
Supplier selection: Selecting suppliers that are socially responsible 
and who share our company’s commitments to ethics and integrity. We 
strive to obtain the services, goods, active ingredients, components, 
finished goods or other products in a way that is lawful and fair. 
Expectations: Setting and communicating our expectations of 
suppliers, including those related to child labor, forced labor and 
human trafficking. We use our Business Partner Code of Conduct to 
communicate our expectations. It has been translated for all counties 
in which we operate.
Supply chain mapping: Mapping our supply chain to identify which 
of our suppliers operate in countries that are known to present a 
significant risk of LHR issues. We use this information to help us decide 
upon the level of due diligence that may be necessary. 
Due diligence: Conducting appropriate supplier due diligence to help 
determine the level of risk presented by suppliers, including potential 
new (prospective) suppliers as well as our existing suppliers. 
Our supplier due diligence process for LHR targets direct materials 
suppliers, including external manufacturing suppliers and contract 
manufacturing organizations, regardless of their geographic location. A 
self-assessment questionnaire is used to gather information on freely 
chosen employment, child labor, employment practices, employee 
disclosures, fair treatment, wages, benefits and working hours. Suppliers’ responses are used to judge whether that supplier has 
programs and/or procedures in place to address potential risks for labor 
and human rights, including modern slavery and human trafficking. 
The information gathered as part of due diligence is used to determine 
the acceptability of suppliers’ local practices. Results are then applied 
by GSMG to inform our supplier selection and risk management 
processes.
Contracts: Seeking written commitment from suppliers to respect the 
principles set forth in our Business Partner Code of Conduct through 
our contracts/agreements. Our contract templates contain a BPCC 
compliance clause, that includes provisions related to modern slavery. 
Auditing: Performing LHR audits at select supplier facilities to verify 
their conformance with our company’s expectations (as stated in 
our BPCC), and by working with them to address identified non-
conformances. We use independent third party audit firms to perform 
announced LHR audits at suppliers’ facilities. When preparing our 
audit schedule, we consider the industry risk, the category of materials 
supplied, the country in which the supplier operates and results of past 
due diligence. 
Remedial actions: Tracking and reporting (to senior management) on 
the closure of remedial actions taken by suppliers to address identified 
non-conformances (gaps/concerns) revealed by supplier LHR auditing. 
Monitoring: Assigning relationship managers from within GSMG to 
oversee and monitor the performance of key suppliers. We continue to 
hold suppliers accountable for meeting their contractual obligations. 
Governance: Using our Third Party Risk Committee to help govern 
and oversee the management of risks associated with third party 
relationships. This committee is chaired by our company’s SVP for 
Global Procurement. The role of our Third Party Risk Committee 
(and associated Third Party Risk Team) is to assist senior leadership 
by providing independent and objective oversight, monitoring and 
reporting in relation to the risks presented by third parties. 
Engagement: Engaging and seeking input from relevant stakeholders, 
including GSMG, Ethics & Compliance, Legal, Global Safety and 
Environment and Office of Social Business Innovation. 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
158
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Collaboration: Working with PSCI to develop training, tools and 
maturity models and share knowledge across our industry and with  
our suppliers. 
Training: Training GSMG professionals with responsibility for supplier 
selection, oversight and monitoring, including the assignment of 
online courses:
• Business Partner Code of Conduct
• Mitigating Modern Slavery Risks in Supply Chains
• Third Party Risk Management
In 2020, we worked with PSCI to develop and provide 
suppliers training: 
• Forced Labor & Modern Slavery
• Operationalizing the PSCI Human Rights Principles
• Human Rights Risks 
• Responsible Sourcing of Ingredients 
In addition, 14 Material Specific Human Rights and Environmental 
Impact Assessment guides were developed. The training and tools 
are provided to suppliers through PSCI and to our employees on an 
internal webpage. 
Next steps
We will continue working on our efforts to identify, assess and 
address LHR risks within our operations and supply chains. These 
efforts will include:
• Investigating all reported concerns promptly 
• Conducting supplier labor and human rights due diligence to 
identify and address risks
• Auditing select suppliers to verify conformance with standards  
for LHR• Holding suppliers accountable for addressing non-conformances 
revealed by LHR audits
• Conducting a Human Rights Compliance Assessment (HRCA) using 
Danish Institute assessment tool
• Participating in the activities/initiatives of PSCI’s Human Rights and 
Labor Sub-Committee
GRI 414-1 New	suppliers	screened	using	social	criteria
 Please see GRI 102-9 on page 29 for additional information on our 
supply chain risks and associated KPIs.
Public	policy
GRI 415 Management	approach
The Merck Political Action Committee (PAC) engages in the political 
process, at both the federal and state levels, to educate policymakers, 
lawmakers and candidates on policy issues critical to our industry and 
our company’s core mission to invent new medicines and vaccines to 
save lives. The Center for Political Accountability has recognized the 
Merck Political Action Committee as a Trendsetter in their annual CPA 
Index of Corporate Political Disclosure & Accountability report.
We continue to make bipartisan contributions that are carefully 
considered on a case-by-case basis. In establishing our PAC political 
giving priorities, our Contributions Committee considers various 
factors to prioritize candidates’ who support policies that enhance 
innovation and patient access to health care.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 159
 Overview
GRI 415-1 Political	contributions
We are committed to participating constructively and responsibly 
in the political process, and to providing clarifying analysis and 
information regarding the issues that affect our business and  
patient care.
In 2020, we contributed a total of $985,450 to support the  
campaigns of 562 candidates for state-level offices in 27 states plus 
the District of Columbia. We also supported state legislative leadership 
committees of both parties, industry-affiliated PACs and national 
organizations representing elected state officials that meet periodically 
to discuss policy issues. Our representatives involved in state-government-affairs activities made the recommendations for specific 
contributions based on the budget and priorities approved  
by the Contributions Committee.
Outside legal counsel conducted a thorough review of all proposed 
contributions to ensure that they were permitted under state law.  
Final approval was provided by the Corporate Secretary.
The only other country in which we provide corporate contributions 
to candidates or political parties is Australia. These contributions are 
subject to the same policies and governance procedures discussed 
above.
 For more information on our political contributions, please visit our 
Transparency Disclosures page on Merck.com.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
160
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Customer	health	&	safety
GRI 416 Management	approach
Our quality strategy is focused on maintaining sustained  
quality and compliance excellence through a digitally enabled  
Quality Management System (QMS), oversight and periodic review of 
our quality performance, a Quality Management Maturity (QMM) 
mindset and a learning culture. Our quality strategy is a key enabler  
to ensuring patient safety, and the overall quality and continuous 
supply of our products.
We operate in a highly complex and ever-changing regulatory 
landscape driven by many different factors, including novel scientific 
discoveries and technological advancements.  Specifically, we are using 
and exploring new technological advancements such as integrated IT 
tools, artificial intelligence (AI) and streamlined digital platforms to 
further enhance how we manufacture high-quality products.
We apply and adhere to a strict set of quality standards, and we have 
policies and procedures in place to identify, measure, control and 
sustain product quality excellence.
Our Global Quality Compliance organization is responsible for 
establishing the standards to ensure that all of our company’s products 
are manufactured, tested, released and distributed in compliance with 
regulatory requirements.
We continuously strive to improve these standards in order to enhance 
procedures and ensure ongoing compliance with current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs).We provide appropriate and ongoing training on cGMP for our 
employees, so they are prepared to perform their duties effectively. 
Our quality system not only ensures that all applicable employees are 
trained, but also monitors the effectiveness of the training provided.
Our company’s medicines and vaccines are widely tested before 
they are approved for marketing. This testing is governed by a 
comprehensive regulatory scheme and by our research policies. We 
assess the safety of our products in rigorous nonclinical and clinical 
trials prior to seeking regulatory approval. Following approval of our 
drugs, vaccines, or devices the company continues to monitor their 
safety profiles.
Our company’s chief medical officer (CMO) holds overall responsibility 
for the benefit:risk determination  of our pipeline and marketed 
products, provides medical oversight for all clinical programs, 
supervises the development and implementation of medical policies 
(including those related to data transparency and the sharing of 
clinical data) and has responsibility for the design, execution and 
implementation of pre-registration expanded access (“compassionate 
use”) programs.
Our company’s Global Clinical Safety and Pharmacovigilance (GCS&PV) 
function manages a global system for the collection, review and 
reporting of Adverse Experience (AE) reports received by our company 
worldwide, and for the continuous assessment of product safety. Our 
company’s chief safety officer holds overall responsibility for the safety 
of our products.
Our industrial hygiene risk assessments require evaluation of the 
effectiveness of control measures. Risk-based exposure monitoring 
is also conducted to verify the effectiveness of installed engineering 
controls, and improvements are made as needed. We use conservative 
safety factors to set low de minimis levels for environmental releases 
until we have sufficient data to fully understand their impacts on 
aquatic organisms. Levels are reviewed and updated as new data 
become available.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 161
 Overview
Quality and product safety 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Number of product recalls in the U.S.11 0 2 1 2
Percentage of sold units recalled during a given year  
(recall rate globally)10.01% 0.01% 0.14% 0.01%0.50%
1 Definition	of	Recall	Classifications.
Counterfeit products
We invest in an industry-leading, rigorous and intelligence-led product-
integrity strategy that is solely focused on protecting patients from the 
harm associated with counterfeit, diverted and other illicit medicines. 
Our company’s Global Security Group oversees the global Product 
Integrity strategy and leads its execution. The strategy seeks to 
protect our patients and our company’s reputation from the negative 
impacts of counterfeit and illicit medicines using a three-pronged 
strategy focused on:
• Securing the supply chain
• Investigations and enforcement
• Raising public and stakeholder awareness
Our efforts in public and stakeholder awareness involve raising 
awareness of the risks posed by counterfeit medicines, and advocating 
for increased enforcement to shape relevant regulatory requirements. In 2020, we continued our commitment to increasing our focus in this 
area and have strategically enhanced our ability to make a long-term 
impact on patient safety through various education campaigns.
We are committed to cooperating with relevant government agencies, 
other pharmaceutical manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors, 
health professionals, consumer groups and key related organizations 
in fighting the problem of counterfeit pharmaceutical products and in 
educating the public about the risks of counterfeit products and how to 
protect against them.
This effort includes a multipronged approach to communicating  
the threat that counterfeit medicines pose and to mitigating this 
threat as effectively as possible, while recognizing that it cannot be 
entirely eliminated.
Collaboration and information-sharing in order to raise public and 
stakeholder awareness of the issue and risks are a crucial focus of our 
Product Integrity program. Through active partnerships with other GRI 416-2Incidents	of	non-compliance	concerning	the	health	
and	safety	impacts	of	products	and	services
SASB 250a.1Products	listed	in	the	FDA’s	MedWatch	Safety	Alerts	
for	Human	Medical	Products	database
SASB 250a.2Fatalities	associated	with	products	as	reported	in	
the	FDA	Adverse	Event	Reporting	System
SASB 250a.3 Recalls	issued,	and	total	units	recalled
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
162
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Quality and product safety 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Number of product recalls in the U.S.11 0 2 1 2
Percentage of sold units recalled during a given year  
(recall rate globally)10.01% 0.01% 0.14% 0.01%0.50%Anti-counterfeiting12016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Investigations of suspected counterfeit products1134 137 274 560  572
Substantiated cases of counterfeit products 102 76 226 210 71
1 Prior-year	data	have	been	adjusted	to	reflect	the	current	status	of	each	event	as	of	April,	2021.	
2 Evidence	from	ongoing	investigations	of	suspected	counterfeit	products	can	result	in	recategorization.
pharmaceutical companies, and with organizations focused on security, 
patient safety and public health, we provide effective advocacy on 
high-priority anti-counterfeiting policy initiatives.
These collaborative efforts support the production of reports, 
whitepapers and data-circulation initiatives, as well as promote  
the intelligence sharing necessary to combat threats from  
counterfeit medicines.
The above table details the number of new suspected and 
substantiated counterfeit events in 2020, as well as the number of 
events introduced in previous years and the subsequent outcome for 
these events. The data below reflects the current status of each event, 
as of April 2021.
Throughout 2020, Global Security addressed 1,947 product integrity 
events in 86 countries, involving counterfeit, diversion, supply chain 
security, tampering, financial integrity and brand security (non-MSD, 
unapproved generic product). Approximately 23 percent of these 
events have been proactively investigated by Global Security to identify 
new or emerging product integrity threats, or to further characterize 
and mitigate known threats.
We enable meaningful enforcement actions as a key strategic priority, 
and in 2020, our product integrity activity led to 52 arrests and the 
seizure of more than 2,300 units of counterfeit or illicit products of our 
company. There were 23 prosecutions resulting from product integrity 
investigations in 2020.
Another crucial aspect of investigations is the forensic analysis of 
questioned products. This forensic testing is aimed at concluding 
whether a questioned product is counterfeit, diverted or otherwise 
illicit. Counterfeit products are characterized in order to gain further intelligence and understanding of the counterfeiters and the threats to 
public health. Our company also has forensic detection devices in the 
field to analyze and detect counterfeits in regions around the world.
As counterfeiters improve their skills and techniques, our forensic 
scientists have pioneered the use of several analytical tools for the 
detection and characterization of counterfeit medicines and continue 
to explore new analytical tools that would increase their forensic 
testing capabilities. Lab findings are shared with regulatory and/or 
law-enforcement agencies, and may be used to support subsequent 
enforcement actions and legal proceedings. 
There were 402 unique questioned samples received as evidence and 
prepared for forensic testing in relation to active events in 2020. As 
part of our proactive awareness program, throughout 2020, Global 
Security trained approximately 4,730 law-enforcement personnel in 
more than 50 countries regarding the patient safety danger related to 
counterfeit and diverted medication.
Global Security also launched an internal training program on the 
Counterfeit, Diversion and Tampering (CDT) reporting process in late 
2017. To date, more than 67,000 employees and contractors have 
completed this training globally.
Supply chain security and serialization
Our proactive focus on managing supply chain security risk is based 
on our careful implementation and management of strict policies 
and procedures designed to protect the legitimate distribution of our 
company’s products. We require customers to purchase our products 
directly from our company or from authorized distributors listed 
publicly on our corporate website.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 163
 Overview
We maintain our commitment to ensure compliance with established 
company policies, standards and procedures throughout the supply 
chain by identifying vulnerabilities and threats to the supply network. 
Resources are positioned globally to monitor and manage our security 
programs and investigate incidents when they occur.
As a certified Importer under the Customs Trade Partnership Against 
Terrorism (CTPAT) Program, we are validated by U.S. Customs 
and Border Protection as an elite Tier 3 Member recognized as 
implementing best practices in supply chain security. This adds an 
important layer to the security of our products and materials imported 
to the U.S.
Serialization—adding a 2D barcode with a unique identification 
number on each package that goes to market—is one of the tools 
we are investing in to secure our supply chain and prevent or detect 
counterfeiting. A serial number on individual packages will enable 
anyone along the supply chain—from a distributor to a pharmacist 
to a patient—to scan the code and verify it as a serial number 
corresponding to a genuine product of our company. Serialization 
adds a robust layer to the company’s product security platform. 
When associated with a regulatory mandate that specifies effective 
implementation and reporting to a national database, this method of 
product tracking can become a more meaningful product security tool.
Many jurisdictions around the world are requiring serialization 
on pharmaceutical packages or are considering such mandates. 
Serialization is required today in China, Turkey, Argentina, South Korea, Nigeria, India, Saudi Arabia, the Middle East, the U.S., EU,  
United Kingdom, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and 
Russia, and will soon be required in Indonesia, Brazil, South Africa 
and Pakistan. Each country’s regulations are different, making it very 
challenging for our packaging sites and distribution networks to meet 
these diverse and intricate requirements with additional complexity as 
reporting requirements are phased in.
We launched the Global Product Serialization Initiative in 2012, 
with the goal of meeting these varying requirements in a robust, 
standardized and effective way based upon GS-1 standards. We are 
working with industry associations and regulatory authorities to help 
shape these new requirements, and advocate for simple, standardized 
and common-sense regulations that can be effective at protecting 
against counterfeit medicines.
In addition to our compliance with regulatory requirements related to 
serialization, we are also exploring opportunities to deploy voluntary 
serialization and secondary authentication technologies to further 
enhance the security and traceability of our products. These multi-
factor authentication systems would be enabled by blockchain nodes 
and applications that allow for secure and immutable product tracing 
that could be accessed by all supply chain partners and end users. 
We are currently running several proof-of-concept and pilot studies 
involving these emerging technologies, as well as participating in active 
industry associations, such as PharmaLedger, to further develop and 
apply these digital solutions.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
164
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Clinical trial site monitoring, design, conduct 
and oversight
Our company has long been committed to sharing the results of 
our clinical trials, regardless of their outcome, in a timely manner. 
If a clinical trial of a marketed product is terminated early for safety 
reasons, we will promptly disclose medically important information 
to regulatory authorities and the public, update the status on clinical 
trials.gov within 30 days and submit a manuscript to a journal (or post 
a summary online) within 12 months after the last patient’s last visit 
occurs. If the trial was terminated for efficacy reasons, the results will 
be disclosed within 12 months after the last patient’s last visit occurs. 
Summaries of terminated trials will provide information about patient 
disposition, safety and adverse experiences, as well as an explanation 
as to why the trial was terminated early.
We comply with all applicable laws and regulations associated with 
the registration of clinical trials in publicly accessible registries and 
subsequent posting of the results from these trials. We have put into 
place the processes necessary for compliance with the Food and Drug 
Administration Amendments Act of 2007 and the European Clinical 
Trial Directive 2001/20/EC, including those related to clinical trial 
registration and posting results.
For those who analyze, report or publish the results of clinical trials, 
a clinical trial registry also provides information on trials in progress 
and the ability to track such trials over the course of development. 
Company-sponsored and -conducted clinical trials involving 
patients assigned treatment with investigational and marketed 
products are registered at trial initiation on www.clinicaltrials.gov , 
www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu and www.encepp.eu.In accordance with our public policy position statement, all 
investigational studies in human subjects are conducted in a  
manner consistent with laws, regulations and guidelines for 
the protection of human subjects, including those issued by the 
International Council for Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice 
(ICH GCP). However, individual country regulations and guidelines 
should remain the primary determinant of specific requirements for 
the conduct of medical research.
We have a commitment, where appropriate, to the study of diverse 
patient populations, including underrepresented groups, women and 
children, in our clinical trials in all regions of the world. As a result, 
we strive to obtain information among diverse populations, ensuring 
a thorough evaluation of the safety and efficacy of our medicines 
and vaccines. These efforts allow us to seek regulatory approvals 
throughout the world and thereby offer our medicines globally to 
patients who need them.
In addition to complying with our company’s global standards, the 
conduct of our clinical trials adheres to the International Council for 
Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice standards and to the principles 
that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki.
When appropriate, an internal standing Data-Monitoring Committee 
(DMC) of our research laboratories’ senior managers reviews unblinded 
data from ongoing trials in a pre-specified, scientifically acceptable 
manner. The goals of the DMC are to protect the safety of trial 
participants and assess whether the risk/benefit profile is favorable. 
The DMC’s recommendations are communicated internally to relevant 
scientists and can be distributed externally to clinical investigators, 
review boards or regulatory agencies, as appropriate.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 165
 Overview
Phase II-V clinical trials patients by region 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Asia Pacific 25% 15% 22% 28% 42%
Central & Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa 12% 7% 7% 8% 8%
European Economic Area 36% 43% 21% 33% 20%
The Americas 10% 6% 9% 7% 15%
U.S. 17% 29% 41% 24% 15%
Trial disclosures activities 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Manuscripts of clinical trial results and related papers submitted 
to peer-reviewed journals152 133 153 290 156
Number of GCP/PV inspections conducted by regulatory 
agencies worldwide103 128 96 99 52
GCP/PV inspections 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
GCP/PV inspections by regulatory agencies of the company or 
clinical trial investigators that led to significant fines, penalties, 
warning letters or product seizures0 0 0 0 0
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
166
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Phase II-V clinical trials patients by region 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Asia Pacific 25% 15% 22% 28% 42%
Central & Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa 12% 7% 7% 8% 8%
European Economic Area 36% 43% 21% 33% 20%
The Americas 10% 6% 9% 7% 15%
U.S. 17% 29% 41% 24% 15%
Trial disclosures activities 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Manuscripts of clinical trial results and related papers submitted 
to peer-reviewed journals152 133 153 290 156
Number of GCP/PV inspections conducted by regulatory 
agencies worldwide103 128 96 99 52
GCP/PV inspections 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
GCP/PV inspections by regulatory agencies of the company or 
clinical trial investigators that led to significant fines, penalties, 
warning letters or product seizures0 0 0 0 0Please visit the U.S. Food & Drug Administration’s (FDA) MedWatch 
website for more information on product safety alerts. You may visit 
the FDA’s Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) website for up-
to-date information on fatalities associated with product use.
 For more information on our approach to clinical trials, please visit 
the Clinical Trials page on our corporate website.
Marketing	&	labeling
GRI 417 Management	approach
Our company’s chief medical officer (CMO) holds overall responsibility 
for the benefit:risk determination of our pipeline and marketed 
products. In addition, the CMO provides medical oversight for all 
clinical programs, supervises the development and implementation of 
medical policies (including those related to data transparency and the 
sharing of clinical data), and has responsibility for the design, execution 
and implementation of pre-registration expanded access 
(“compassionate use”) programs.
Our company’s Global Clinical Safety and Pharmacovigilance (GCS&PV) 
function manages a global system for the collection, review and 
reporting of Adverse Experience (AE) reports received by our company 
worldwide, and for the continuous assessment of product safety. Our 
company’s chief safety officer holds overall responsibility for the safety 
of our products. 
Clinical safety and risk management
Clinical Safety and Risk Management (CSRM) leads the Risk 
Management & Safety Teams (RMSTs) teams for all products, from 
the beginning of Phase 2b through the end of the product life cycle. 
CSRM is responsible for the development of a proactive clinical safety 
risk-management strategies, including the Risk Management Plan, 
which is a regulatory requirement in many countries for marketed 
drugs and vaccines.GRI 417-1Requirements	for	product	and	service	information	
and	labeling
GRI 417-2Incidents	of	non-compliance	concerning	product	and	
service	information	and	labeling
GRI 417-3Incidents	of	non-compliance	concerning	marketing	
communications
SASB 270a.1Monetary	losses	as	a	result	of	legal	proceedings	
associated	with	false	marketing	claims
SASB 270a.2Code	of	ethics	governing	promotion	of	off-label	use	
of	products
The label in our product packaging contains information on possible 
side effects and, if appropriate, how to avoid some potential health 
problems. We include contact details in our product packaging and on 
our corporate website for patients, caregivers and health professionals 
to report adverse experiences in the U.S. Outside the U.S., adverse 
events are reported in accordance with any additional local country 
laws and practices.
Depending on labeling revisions and their context, our company or 
regulatory authorities may determine, in consultation with regulatory 
authorities, that more extensive communications are appropriate. In 
those situations, we work with regulatory authorities to communicate 
to health care professionals in a timely manner so that they can inform 
patients through appropriate mechanisms. Communications to health 
care professionals may include “Dear Health Care Provider” letters and 
media statements.
Product label reviews
The ongoing oversight and monitoring of our product labels are a major 
focus of our safety efforts. Our label review teams monitor information 
on our products and work with our product Risk Management & Safety 
(RMS) teams to develop or update product labeling. We regularly 
communicate relevant information to regulatory authorities worldwide.
Health literacy
There are many examples of health literacy in action across our 
company’s product lifecycle as seen in our approaches to clinical 
trials, informed consent, diversity in trials, medication labeling for 
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 167
 Overview
patients, instructions for use, packaging and patient education. 
Beginning in 2019, new clinical trials addressed cultural competence 
and included training for investigators in teach-back, a way to confirm 
understanding by asking participants to repeat information in their 
own words. Early in 2020, our commercial organization launched a 
process to integrate health literacy reviews more consistently across all 
therapeutic areas.
We have nine FDA approved health literate patient labels which  
were developed with input from patients across a range of health  
literacy levels.
U.S. Merck Medical Forums
We deliver balanced medical and scientific information to health care 
professionals within the U.S. through our company’s promotional 
Merck Medical Forums, which are conducted by contracted external 
speakers. Speakers are selected based on defined, objective criteria 
that are directly related to the identified educational purpose of the 
Medical Forum. By attending one of our Merck Medical Forums, health 
care professionals participate in medical education on therapeutic and 
health care industry topics. The goal of this education is to provide 
medical education to targeted HCPs.
With our strict standards for conducting Merck Medical Forums, 
we comply with the PhRMA Code on Interactions with Health Care 
Professionals as well as with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
regulations, which ensures that product information is appropriately 
balanced to include the product’s potential benefits and risks, and is 
consistent with approved product labeling.
We believe that our marketing, sales and advertising activities  
make an important contribution to medicine by informing our customers 
of treatment options based on the most recent scientific information and 
findings from rigorous clinical studies. Our sales and marketing practices 
are governed by external laws and regulations and industry codes of 
conduct, and by our own global Code of Conduct, our corporate policies 
and procedures and our ethics and compliance program.
 For more information, please see our answers to GRI 417-1 and GRI 
417-2 on page 167 .Customer	privacy
GRI 418 Management	approach
Information about our company, products and people is one of our 
most valuable assets. We are committed to ethical use, management 
and protection of information.
Our commitment applies not only to our company’s information, but 
also to the information entrusted to us by others. Our tools, processes 
and procedures ensure that we appropriately collect, use and safeguard 
information throughout its life cycle to ensure integrity of information 
and to prevent unauthorized access and disclosure. We have developed 
and continue to improve upon a comprehensive, global, state of the 
art information security and cyber resiliency program to enable our 
company to fulfill its mission: inventing for life.
There is increased pressure for companies to adopt the EU General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) as the basis for their own privacy 
policies and programs. Our company is well positioned in that we 
have based our global program on the GDPR.  In addition, our Privacy 
program is flexible and adaptable to be compliant to new laws and 
regulations that take effect in the jurisdictions where we conduct 
business.  Examples include the California Consumer Privacy Act 
(CCPA) and California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) in California, the 
Consumer Data Protection Act (CDPA) in Virginia and major revisions 
to the Data Protection Acts in Singapore, Brazil and Switzerland.   
In addition, there is increased regulatory scrutiny and interest in 
companies that seek to collect and monetize personal information 
without full transparency and permission from data subjects. 
Regulators will continue to increase requirements in these areas and 
levy fines. Again, we believe that we are well positioned for these 
changes due to the deployment of a comprehensive closed-loop 
privacy program and our active engagement with regulators around 
the world.
The Global Privacy Office reports into our chief ethics & compliance 
officer who reports directly to our CEO. Oversight of the privacy 
program is conducted within the Privacy and Data Protection Board 
(PDPB). This is a cross functional board that connects to the Corporate 
Compliance Committee. The PDPB meets quarterly.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
168
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
We are increasingly reliant on third party partners and service 
providers to assist us in our global operations. Just as we need to pay 
close attention to privacy and data protection, so do the third parties 
that comprise our supply chain. Our company employs a robust third-
party due diligence process to ensure that we only do business with 
reputable third parties who share our values and standards.  
Our approach is one of accountability and transparency. The heart of 
this program is a leveraged, world class Global Privacy Program that 
manifests itself throughout the world as a network of over 200 Privacy 
Stewards deployed around the globe. Program maturity is measured 
through a combination of annual privacy self-assessments at the entity 
and organization level and by comprehensive privacy audits conducted 
by internal audit.
Our company also provides annual mandatory cybersecurity training 
to communicate and reinforce the guidelines in the Information 
Security Standards Handbook and our commitment to a strong 
cybersecurity culture.  We have established a systematic approach 
for ensuring employees can understand and comply with company 
policies.  Our company developed a robust cybersecurity training 
and awareness program that frequently and consistently delivers both compulsory and voluntary learning opportunities designed to 
encourage employees to make security-aware decisions regarding 
our company’s information security risks. Topics include, but are 
not limited to, information protection, identity, email, browsing and 
mobile security.  Employees are also expected to maintain an up to 
date record of their qualifications that detail relevant cybersecurity 
work experience, skills, certifications and internal, industry or 
vendor-provided training they receive. 
Global privacy program
Over the past 20 years, we have developed and continually 
improved a comprehensive global privacy program that promotes 
organizational accountability for privacy, data governance and data 
protection across our business and with our collaborative partners 
and suppliers.
We were the first company in the world to obtain regulatory approval 
in the EU for Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) based in part on our 
existing Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Cross-Border 
Privacy Rules (CBPRs) certified program.
Our global privacy values
We have established a set of privacy values to guide all 
of our privacy, data stewardship and data protection 
decisions. These core tenets serve as the foundational 
ethical framework for our comprehensive global privacy 
program and our compliance with the continually 
evolving legal and regulatory standards for privacy and 
data protection.Respect
We recognize that privacy concerns often relate to the 
essence of who we are, how we view the world and how we 
define ourselves, so we strive to respect the perspectives and 
interests of individuals and communities and to be fair and 
transparent in how we use and share information about them.Trust
We know that trust is vital to our success, so we strive to build 
and preserve the trust of our customers, employees, patients 
and other stakeholders in how we respect privacy and protect 
information about people.
Prevent harm
We understand that misuse of information about people can 
create both tangible and intangible harm for individuals, so 
we seek to prevent physical, financial, reputational and other 
types of privacy harm to individuals.Comply
We have learned that laws and regulations cannot always keep 
pace with the rapid change in technologies, data flows and 
associated shifts in privacy risks and expectations, so we strive 
to comply with both the spirit and the letter of privacy and 
data protection laws and regulations in a manner that respects 
individuals, instills trust and drives consistency and operating 
efficiency for our global business operations.
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 169
 Overview
This achievement demonstrates that organizations can rely on 
common internal standards and processes to govern international data 
transfers across both the EU and APEC regions to simplify their ability 
to address the growing regulatory challenges in this area.
Our holistic approach to privacy has its origins in biomedical research 
ethics and the protection of participants in the research studies 
that we sponsor and conduct. We have adapted human subject 
research ethics standards for risk-benefit analysis, transparency, 
anonymization, coding and prior review to other activities and 
processes involving data about people.
Global privacy program 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Number of concerns regarding privacy practices, breaches of 
privacy and losses of personal data that were substantiated1227 123 315 2922503
Number of privacy breaches requiring notification by  
Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., to individuals  
or government authorities1 0 2 2 0
1  Privacy	concerns	reported	here	include	all	concerns	about	our	privacy	practices	reported	to	our	company’s	Privacy	Office	and	substantiated	or	verified.	 
Verified	concerns	are	investigated	as	part	of	the	company’s	Incident	Management	Process	which	includes	a	determination	of	whether	regulatory	or	data	subject	notification	is	required.	
2 Change	in	reporting	criteria	to	exclude	non-privacy,	quality	related	issues	from	the	data.
3 Increased	sensitivity	of	network	traffic	monitors.GRI 418-1Substantiated	complaints	regarding	breaches	of	
customer	privacy	and	losses	of	customer	data
We have a well-established process by which privacy incidents can be 
reported to the Global Privacy Office and be investigated. The first 
step of this process is to verify the facts reported and to substantiate 
the concern. In 2020, we received 250 substantiated concerns. This 
marked a substantial increase over the number seen the previous year. 
This increase can be attributed to the deployment by the company 
of more sensitive network monitors. In 2020, none of the reported 
Privacy Incidents rose to the level requiring notification.
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
170
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI)The GRI Standards represent global best practices for reporting publicly on a range of economic, 
environmental and social impacts. The table below summarizes where responses to the GRI 
disclosures can be found throughout this report.
General	Disclosures
GRI 102 Organizational Profile
102-1 Organization name (Core) Pages 26–27
102-2 Primary brands, products, and services (Core) Pages 26–27
102-3 Headquarters location (Core) Pages 26–27
102-4 Location of operations (Core) Pages 26–27
102-5 Ownership and legal form (Core) Pages 26–27
102-6 Markets served (Core) Pages 26–27
102-7 Scale of the organization (Core) Page 28
102-8 Information on employees and other workers (Core) Page 28
102-9 Supply chain (Core) Pages 29–33
102-10 Organizational changes during the reporting period (Core) Page 33
102-11 Precautionary principle (Core) Page 34
102-12 External initiatives (Core) Pages 34–35
102-13 Membership associations (Core) Pages 35–37
GRI 102 Strategy
102-14 CEO Letter (Core) Page 38
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Not reported
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 171
 Overview
GRI 102 Ethics & Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior (Core) Pages 38–39
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Pages 38–39
GRI 102 Governance
102-18 Governance structure of the organization (Core) Pages 40–42
102-19 Delegation of responsibility Pages 40–42
102-20 High-level accountability for sustainability topics Pages 40–42
102-21 Access to the board Pages 40–42
102-22 Composition of the board and its committees Pages 40–42
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Pages 40–42
102-24 Board nomination and selection processes Page 42
102-25 Board conflicts of interest Page 42
102-26 Board and executive roles Page 42
102-27 Board ESG knowledge Pages 42–43
102-28 Board performance Pages 42–43
102-29 Board identification of ESG impacts, risks and opportunities Pages 42–43
102-30 Board ESG review of risk management processes Pages 42–43
102-31 Frequency of board review Pages 42–43
102-32 Report review Pages 42–43
102-33 Board communication Page 43
102-34 Concerns communicated to the board Not reported
102-35 Remuneration policies for the board and senior executives Page 43
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Page 43
102-37 Remuneration shareholder resolutions Page 43
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
172
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
102-38 CEO/employee pay ratio Page 44
102-39 CEO/employee pay increase ratio Not reported
GRI 102 Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 Stakeholder engagement (Core) Pages 44–45
102-41 Union representation (Core) Pages 44–45
102-42 Stakeholder identification (Core) Pages 44–45
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement (Core) Pages 44–45
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised (Core) Not reported
GRI 102 Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in financial statements (Core) Page 46
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries (Core) Pages 47–49
102-47 Material Aspects included (Core) Pages 47–49
102-48 Restatements (Core) Page 49
102-49 Reporting changes (Core) Page 49
102-50 Reporting period (Core) Page 49
102-51 Date of most recent report (Core) Page 49
102-52 Reporting cycle (Core) Page 49
102-53 Report contact (Core) Page 49
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards (Core) Page 49
102-55 GRI content index (Core) Page 49
102-56 External assurance (Core) Page 49
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 173
 Overview
Economic
GRI 201 Economic Performance (2016)
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Pages 50–51
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Page 52
201-3 Benefit plan coverage Page 53
GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 53–63
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Pages 64–72
203-2 Indirect economic impacts Pages 64–72
GRI 204 Procurement Practices (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 73–75
GRI 205 Anti-corruption (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Page 76
205-2 Communications and training on anti-corruption Page 77
GRI 206 Anti-Competitive Behavior (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 78–79
206-1 Anti-competitive behavior Pages 79–81
GRI 207 Tax (2019)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 81–82
207-1 Approach to tax Pages 81–82
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
174
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Environmental
GRI 301 Materials (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 83–87
GRI 302 Energy
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 88–90
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (Scopes 1 + 2) Pages 91–92
302-4 Energy reductions Pages 91–92
GRI 303 Water (2018)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 93–94
303-1 Water as a shared resource Page 95
303-2 Water discharge-related impacts Pages 95–96
303-3 Water withdrawal Pages 96–98
303-4 Water discharge Pages 99–100
GRI 305 Emissions (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 100–101
305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Pages 102–104
305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Pages 102–104
305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Pages 102–104
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Pages 102–104
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Pages 102–104
305-6 Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Pages 104–106
305-7 NOx, SOx and other emissions Pages 104–106
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 175
 Overview
GRI 306 Waste (2020)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 106–107
306-3 Waste generated Page 107
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Pages 108–110
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Pages 108–110
GRI 307 Environmental Compliance (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 110–114
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Page 115
GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 116–117
Social
GRI 401 Employment (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 118–120
401-1 New employee hires and turnover Pages 121–123
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Pages 123–127
401-3 Parental leave Page 128
GRI 403 Occupational Health & Safety (2018)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Page 128
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Page 129
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
176
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Pages 129–132
403-3 Occupational health services Pages 132–135
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Page 136
403-6 Promotion of worker health Page 136
403-9 Work-related injuries Pages 137–139
403-10 Work-related ill health Pages 137–139
GRI 404 Training & Education (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Page 140
404-1 Average hours of employee training Pages 140–144
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Pages 140–144
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews Pages 144–145
GRI 405 Diversity & Equal Opportunity (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 145–152
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Pages 153–154
GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 154–156
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Page 156
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures Page 156
412-3 Investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or underwent screening Page 156
GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Page 157-159
414-1 New suppliers screened using social criteria Page 159
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 177
 Overview
GRI 415 Public Policy (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Page 159
415-1 Political contributions Page 160
GRI 416 Customer Health & Safety (2016) 
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Page 161
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Pages 162–167
GRI 417 Marketing & Labeling (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Page 167
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Pages 167–168
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling Pages 167–168
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Pages 167–168
GRI 418 Customer Privacy (2016)
Management Approach Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the company's strategy.Pages 168–170
418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Page 170
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
178
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB)SASB is an independent standards-setting organization dedicated to improving the 
effectiveness and comparability of corporate disclosure on ESG factors. The table 
below summarizes how our existing reporting aligns with the recommended metrics 
for the Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals Standard within the Health Care sector,  
and where this information can be found in this report.
Safety of clinical trial participants
210a.1 Discussion, by world region, of management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during 
clinical trialsPages 53–72
Clinical trials
210a.2 Number of FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance that 
resulted in: Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI) and Official Action Indicated (OAI)Pages 162–167
210a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in 
developing countriesNot reported
Access to medicines
240a.1 Description of actions and initiatives to promote access to health care products for priority diseases 
and in priority countries as defined by the Access to Medicine IndexPages 53–72
240a.2 List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its Prequalification of 
Medicines Programme (PQP)Pages 53–72
Affordability and pricing
240b.1 Number of settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that involved 
payments and/or provisions to delay bringing an authorized generic product to market for a  
defined time periodNot reported
240b.2 Percentage change in: average list price and average net price across U.S. product portfolio  
compared to previous yearPages 53–72
240b.3 Percentage change in: list price and net price of product with largest increase compared to  
previous yearPages 53–72
Drug safety
250a.1 List of products listed in the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) MedWatch Safety Alerts for 
Human Medical Products databaseFAERS MedWatch 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
179
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
250a.2 Number of fatalities associated with products as reported in the FDA Adverse Event  
Reporting SystemFAERS MedWatch 
250a.3 Number of recalls issued, and total units recalled Pages 53–72
FAERS MedWatch
250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or disposal Not reported
250a.5 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current  
Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeNot reported
Counterfeit drugs
260a.1 Description of methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the 
supply chain and prevent counterfeitingPages 53–72, 76–77
260a.2 Discussion of process for alerting customers and business partners of potential or known risks 
associated with counterfeit productsPages 161–167
260a.3 Number of actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or filing of criminal charges related to 
counterfeit productsNot reported
Ethical marketing
270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false  
marketing claimsPages 79–81
270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products Pages 167–168
Employee recruitment, development and retention
330a.1 Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for scientists and research and  
development personnelPages 121–123
330a.2 Voluntary and involuntary turnover rate for: executives/senior managers, mid-level managers, 
professionals, and all othersPages 121–123
Supply chain management
430a.1 Percentage of entity's facilities and Tier I suppliers' facilities participating in the Rx-360 International 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium audit program or equivalent third-party audit programs for 
integrity of supply chain and ingredientsNot reported
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 180
 Overview
Business ethics
510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption  
and briberyNot reported
510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals Pages 38–39   
Code of Conduct  
& Compliance
Activity metrics
000.A Number of patients treated Not reported
000.B Number of drugs in portfolio, and in research and development (Phases 1-3) Pipeline 
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
181
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
UN Global  
Compact (UNGC)The UNGC is a strategic initiative that helps companies align their business activities and strategies 
with ten universally recognized principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental 
protection and the fight against corruption. The table below summarizes how our existing reporting 
aligns with these disclosures, and where the information can be found in this report, which serves as 
our Communication on Progress to UNGC. 
Human rights
1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Pages 154–156
2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Pages 116–117, 154–159 
Labor
3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to 
collective bargainingPages 154–156
4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Pages 154–156
5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor Pages 154–156
6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Pages 145–156
Environment
7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pages 83–87, 93–100, 106–110
8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pages 83–117
9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Pages 83–87, 93–100 
Anti-corruption
10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Pages 38–39, 76–81, 157–159
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 182
 Overview
UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)The SDGs are a set of 17 global goals whose aim is to end poverty, fight 
inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. The table 
below summarizes how our reporting aligns with the SDGs, and where 
this information can be found in this report. More information on our 
priorities can also be found on page 8.
Goal Description Response
SDG 1: No Poverty End poverty in all its forms everywhere Pages 53–72, 81–82
SDG 2: Zero Hunger End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture Merck Animal Health
SDG 3: Good Health &  
Well-beingEnsure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Pages 53–72, 128–139
SDG 4: Quality Education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Pages 140–145
SDG 5: Gender Equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Pages 118–128, 140–154, 
157–159
SDG 6: Clean Water  
& SanitationEnsure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Pages 93–100, 107
SDG 7: Affordable &  
Clean EnergyEnsure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Pages 88–92
SDG 8: Decent Work & 
Economic GrowthPromote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and 
decent work for allPages 28, 44–45, 50–53, 
88–92, 118–139, 140–154, 
157–159
SDG 9: Industry, Innovation  
& InfrastructureBuild resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Pages 50–72
SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities Reduce inequality within and among countries Pages 28, 118–128, 140–154
SDG 11: Cities & Communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Not applicable
SDG 12: Responsible 
Consumption & ProductionEnsure sustainable consumption and production patterns Pages 83–110, 167–168
SDG 13: Climate Action Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Pages 52, 88–92, 100–106
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
183
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
SDG 14: Life Below Water Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development Pages 34, 93–100
SDG 15: Life on Land Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, 
combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity lossPages 93–110
SDG 16: Peace, Justice & 
Strong InstitutionsPromote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to  
justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levelsPages 38–39, 40–43, 78–81, 
110–115, 128–139, 157–159, 
161–170
SDG 17: Partnerships  
for the GoalsStrengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for  
sustainable developmentPages 34–35, 44–45, 81–82
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 184
 Overview
Culture of Health for 
Business (COH4B)The Culture of Health for Business (COH4B) is a framework for companies to disclose 
their impact on health of employees, families and communities, as well as brand and 
financial performance, that lead to both positive and negative business outcomes.  
The table below summarizes how our reporting aligns with the recommended metrics 
for the Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals Standard within the Health Care sector, and 
where this information can be found in this report.
Strategic
Health culture Promoting an organizational culture of health Pages 123–127, 128–139, 
COVID-19
Responsible corporate  
political activityActivity that shapes public policy or public opinion Pages 159–160, Transparency 
Disclosures  
Responsible marketing 
practicesCommitments to responsible marketing Pages 167–168
Policies & Benefits
Health promotion and wellness Providing health promotion and wellness programs Pages 118–139
Paid family and medical leave Allowing employees to earn pay while away attending to illness, a family member or newborn Pages 118–128
Health insurance Providing employer-based health insurance Pages 118–128
Equality, diversity  
and impartialityManaging inequality, discrimination and diversity, including disability Pages 118–128, 145–156
Financial literacy Providing financial literacy resources Pages 118–128
Workforce & Operations
Work time Managing working hours, schedules and schedule control Pages 118–128
Job security Managing job insecurity Pages 118–128
Pay practices Managing wage policies, minimum wages, wage satisfaction Pages 118–128, Compensation 
and benefits
Occupational health and safety Mandatory and voluntary occupational health and safety Pages 128–139
Physical environment Managing air quality, lighting, green buildings, health promotion attempts through the  
built environmentPages 83–117
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
185
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Community
Community environmental 
impactsManaging the environmental impacts of company operations on communities Pages 83–117, CDP Water 
Security and CDP Climate 
Change
Social capital and cohesion Encouraging links, shared values and understanding Pages 16–18, 118–128
Community involvement Investments in programs to benefit communities, including disaster response and recovery Pages 53–72, 118–128, 
Philanthrop y, Impact 
Investing , Medical  
Outreach Program
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 186
 Overview
Stakeholder 
Capitalism MetricsAt the 2020 Annual Meeting in Davos, 120 of the world’s largest companies supported efforts to 
develope a core set of common metrics and disclosures for their investors and other stakeholders. 
Below is our alignment against the Core metrics from this framework developed by the World 
Economic Forum, as well as select disclosures from the Explanded metrics.
Principles of Governance
Governing Purpose
Setting purpose (Core) Not reported
Purpose-led management (Expanded) Overview section (Pages 7, 9)
Quality of Governing Body
Governance body composition (Core) Pages 40–42
Progress against strategic milestones (Expanded) Access to medicine (Pages 53–72)
Product quality and safety (Pages 161–167)
Public health risks (Pages 3, 53–72)
Ethics in R&D (Pages 53–72)
Employee health and safety (Pages 128–139)
Employee engagement and diversity (Pages 145–154)
Climate change (Pages 52, 88–92, 100–106)
Business ethics (Pages 38–39)
Data privacy and security (Pages 168–170)
Governance structures and mechanisms (Pages 40–44)
Remuneration (Expanded) Page 43
Stakeholder Engagement
Material issues impacting stakeholders (Core) Pages 44–45, 47–49
Ethical Behavior
Anti-corruption (Core) Pages 76–77, 140–145
Protected ethics advice and reporting mechanisms (Core) Pages 38–39
Alignment of strategy and policies to lobbying (Expanded) Pages 159–160
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
187
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Risk and Opportunity Oversight
Integrating risk and opportunity into business process (Core) Pages 40–42, 47–49
Planet
Climate Change
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Core) Pages 102–104
Paris-aligned GHG emissions targets (Expanded) Pages 100–106
TCFD implementation (Core) We intend to perform a gap analysis on TCFD reporting 
for our company in late 2021, and will provide more 
information on our progress in our 2021/2022 ESG report.
Nature Loss
Land use and ecological sensitivity (Core) Not reported
Freshwater Availability
Water consumption and withdrawal in water -stressed areas (Core) Pages 93–100
Impact of freshwater consumption and withdrawal (Expanded) CDP Water Security 
Air Pollution
Air pollution (Expanded) Pages 104–106
People
Dignity and Equality
Diversity and inclusion (Core) Pages 153–154
Pay equality (Core) Pages 146–148
Wage level (Core) Not reported
Risk for incidents of child, forced or compulsory labor (Core) Pages 154–156
Human rights review, grievance impact and modern slavery (Expanded) Pages 154–156
Freedom of association and collective bargaining at risk (Expanded) Pages 44–45, 157–159
GRI/SASB:
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021 General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 188
 Overview
Health and Wellbeing
Health and safety (Core) Pages 137–139
Employee well-being (Expanded) Pages 128–139
Skills for the Future
Training provided (Core) Pages 140–145
Prosperity
Employment and Wealth Generation
Absolute number and rate of employment (Core) Pages 118–128
Infrastructure investments and services supported (Expanded) Pages 53–72
Economic contribution (Core) Pages 50–53  
2020 Form 10-K
Financial investment contribution (Core) 2020 Form 10-K
Significant indirect economic impacts (Expanded) Pages 53–72
Innovation for Better Products and Services
Total R&D expenses (Core) 2020 Form 10-K (pages 59-60) 
Community and Social Vitality
Total tax paid (Core) Pages 81–82
Additional tax remitted (Expanded) Pages 81–82
Merck ESG Progress Report 2020/2021
189
 Overview GRI/SASB: General	disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Copyright © 2021 Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ USA, and its affiliates.  All rights reserved.
Forward-looking statement
This publication of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., USA (the “company”) includes “forward-looking 
statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company’s 
management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate 
or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-
looking statements. 
Risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to, general industry conditions and competition; general 
economic factors, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; the impact of the global 
outbreak of novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19); the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and 
health care legislation in the United States and internationally; global trends toward health care cost 
containment; technological advances, new products and patents attained by competitors; challenges 
inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approval; the company’s ability to 
accurately predict future market conditions; manufacturing difficulties or delays; financial instability of 
international economies and sovereign risk; dependence on the effectiveness of the company’s patents and 
other protections for innovative products; and the exposure to litigation, including patent litigation, and/or 
regulatory actions.
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result 
of new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially 
from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the company’s 2020 Annual Report 
on Form 10-K and the company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) available at 
the SEC’s Internet site (www.sec.gov). 
No duty to update 
The information contained in this publication was current as of the date presented. The company assumes 
no duty to update the information to reflect subsequent developments. Consequently, the company will not 
update the information contained in this publication and investors should not rely upon the information as 
current or accurate after the presentation date.
Merck & Co., Inc.  
c/o ESG Strategy & Engagement  
2000 Galloping Hill Road (K1-3181)  
Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A.  
Merck.com
Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., is known 
as MSD outside the United States and Canada.