ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL &  
GOVERNANCE (ESG) 
PROGRESS REPORT 2018
ESG PROGRESS REPORT 20184 LETTER FROM OUR CEO  
5 2018 HIGHLIGHTS  
12	 GRI/SASB 	DISCLOSURES  
67	 GRI	AND	SASB	INDICESThis is the Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Progress Report 
2018 of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., which is known  
as MSD outside the U.S. and Canada. This report is a supplement to our 
comprehensive online report, available at MSDresponsibility.com .CONTENTSOperating responsibly as a business 
is at the very heart of our ability to 
deliver sustainable impact —  driving 
long-term value for our company 
and society.
For more than a century, we have been inventing 
medicines and vaccines for many of the world’s most 
challenging diseases and we have built a company with 
the talent, tenacity and strength to take on some of the 
biggest threats to human and animal health.
Our core product categories include diabetes, cancer, 
vaccines and hospital acute care. We continue to 
focus our research on conditions that represent some 
of today’s most significant health challenges —  like 
cancer, HIV, HPV, hepatitis C, cardio-metabolic disease, antibiotic-resistant infection and Alzheimer’s disease, 
and we are on the front lines in the fight against 
emerging global pandemics, such as Ebola.
Our approach to corporate responsibility is about the 
health, economic, social and environmental impact 
we have on individuals and communities around the 
world. We hold ourselves accountable to our many 
stakeholders, including patients, employees, customers 
and shareholders, whose perspectives help to define  
our corporate responsibility priorities.OUR PURPOSE
ESG Report 2018
3At MSD, we have been committed to our mission of  
saving and improving lives for nearly 130 years.  
Over that time, we have been responsible for some  
of the most significant scientific advancements  
and improvements in public health.
Any one individual can make the scientific breakthrough 
needed to discover a new medicine. I’m reminded  
of our esteemed former colleague, Maurice Hilleman, 
the father of modern vaccines, whose centenary we 
Our mission of saving and 
improving lives means we 
have an important role to 
play in achieving the UN 
Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs).LETTER FROM OUR CEO
celebrate this year. However, it takes the infrastructure 
of a company like MSD to translate invention into  
a product that can help millions of people every day. 
Operating responsibly as a business is at the very  
heart of our ability to do so.
Our 2018/2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 
reviews our progress against our four key areas of 
corporate responsibility: Access to Health, Employees, 
Environmental Sustainability and Ethics & Values. 
It represents our commitment to widely recognized 
reporting frameworks that reflect key environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) issues, and our support  
for the 10 universally accepted principles of the  
UN Global Compact.
Our industry is facing some challenging headwinds, but  
our commitment to corporate responsibility will not 
waiver. The number of health care and drug pricing 
reforms being considered is possibly at an all-time high. 
Health care costs, especially a patient’s out-of-pocket 
costs, need to be addressed. We want to help find a 
sustainable solution, and we will continue to work with 
stakeholders and be transparent about our efforts.  
We have a history of responsible pricing and publicly 
disclose information about our prices in the United 
States. This includes our pledge not to increase our 
average net prices across our portfolio by more than  
the rate of inflation annually.
Whatever may come, we remain steadfast in our focus 
on following the science to see where we can have the 
greatest impact on patients’ lives. After all, R&D is  
the main source of the biopharmaceutical industry’s 
value to society. As we look to the future, we’re making 
investments in our pipeline and manufacturing  
capability to help protect one billion more lives by 2030.
We have a legacy of tackling urgent global health 
challenges. For example, MSD for Mothers , our global 
initiative to reduce maternal mortality around the world, empowers women to make informed choices; 
equips health care providers; and strengthens health 
care systems. Working with more than 160 partners, 
our programs have improved access to quality care and 
modern contraception for more than nine million  
women in 48 countries.
I am proud that our investigational vaccine is being 
delivered and having an impact in areas of Central  
Africa affected by the Ebola virus. Some may say that 
investing to develop an Ebola vaccine doesn’t make  
good business sense, but I believe this is the kind of 
challenge that MSD was designed to tackle.
Corporate responsibility initiatives like MSD for Mothers  
and our investigative Ebola vaccine make us an attractive 
employer for people who want to change the world.  
And it adds to the sense of purpose that keeps us going.
That purpose was captured by our modern-day founder, 
George W. Merck, who said, “Medicine is for the 
people, not for the profits.” For me, only two metrics 
truly matter —  how many people you help, and how 
much help you give those people.
Promoting enduring social good and securing business 
success are inextricably linked. While there is always 
more to do, I would like to thank all our employees, our 
suppliers and our partners for the work they do every 
day toward these goals. The activities highlighted in this 
report are a testament to the incredible impact they  
are having all around the world.
Sincerely,
 Kenneth C. Frazier  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
ESG Report 2018
4MSD for Mothers  has reached 
more than 9 million women in 
48 countries
TIME magazine named 
Ken Frazier, our company’s 
Chairman and CEO, to the
2018 TIME100
41%  
of management roles  
are held by women
15% reduction of  
water use since 2015FINANCIAL	INFORMATION	 2018
Sales ($M)  $42,294
Pharmaceutical ($M) $37,689
Animal Health ($M) $4,212
Other ($M)  $393
R&D expenses ($M )  $9,752
Number of employees (approx.) 69,000100%
score on the Human Rights 
Campaign’s Corporate  
Equality Index
$2.8B  total giving in 2018
FTSE4Good index  
constituent since 200814%
of our purchased electricity 
comes from renewables   by 2040, 
100% will come from 
renewable sources
$2.1B spent in 2018  
with diverse  suppliers2018 HIGHLIGHTS
ESG Report 2018
501
02
03
04Access to Health  
We aspire to improve access to health 
by discovering, developing and providing 
innovative products and services that 
save and improve lives. 
Ethics & Values   
Through our unwavering commitment 
to transparency, we earn the trust and 
confidence of our stakeholders. Employees  
We recognize that our ability to excel 
depends on the integrity, knowledge, 
imagination, skill, diversity and 
teamwork of our employees.
Environmental Sustainability  
A healthy planet is essential to human 
health and the sustainability of  
our business.Reflecting our commitment 
to managing environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) 
issues, we continue to focus 
our approach to corporate 
responsibility in four primary 
areas that are of greatest 
relevance to our business 
and society.
OUR	FOCUS	AREAS
ESG Report 2018
6We think globally, but we have to act globally, too .
markets around the world140
in product donations  
outside the U.S.$1.4B
people reached by our  
programs and partnerships357M
Note: The 357 million people reached by our major programs and partnerships represent investments by our Office of Social Business Innovation, including our Office of Corporate Responsibility, MSD for Mothers  and our Foundation.
ESG Report 2018
7ASTHMA ANTIBIOTICS CANCER 
CHICKENPOX DIABETES EBOLA 
FAMILY PLANNING HEPATITIS HIV 
HPV HYPERTENSION INFECTIOUS 
DISEASE INSOMNIA LYMPHATIC 
FILARIASIS MEASLES MELANOMA 
MUMPS OSTEOPOROSIS RABIES 
RIVER BLINDNESS ROTAVIRUSWe work to deliver vaccines, medications, 
and animal health products that can help 
millions around the world.ASTHMA ANTIBIOTICS CANCER 
CHICKENPOX DIABETES EBOLA 
FAMILY PLANNING HEPATITIS HIV 
HPV HYPERTENSION INFECTIOUS 
DISEASE INSOMNIA LYMPHATIC 
FILARIASIS MEASLES MELANOMA 
MUMPS OSTEOPOROSIS RABIES 
RIVER BLINDNESS ROTAVIRUS
For 32 years we have been 
fighting river blindness.River blindness has now been eliminated 
in Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala and 
Mexico, and several countries in Africa  
are close to elimination.
ESG Report 2018
9Our efforts support the 
United Nations’ Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) 
through the promotion of health 
and well-being, gender equality, 
clean water, climate change and 
renewable energy, diversity 
and inclusion, and responsible 
consumption, among others.  
ESG Report 2018
10
We are driven by our purpose to invent.
Because patients are waiting.GENERAL 	DISCLOSURES
ORGANIZATIONAL 	PROFILE
GRI 102-1 Organization name (Core)
GRI 102-2 Primary brands, products, and 
services (Core)
GRI 102-3 Headquarters location (Core)
GRI 102-4 Location of operations (Core)
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form (Core)
GRI 102-6 Markets served (Core)
This is the Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) 
Progress Report 2018 of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, 
N.J., U.S.A., which is known as MSD outside the U.S. 
and Canada.
We are a global health care company that delivers 
innovative health solutions through our prescription 
medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal 
health products.
Our operations are principally managed on a products 
basis and include four operating segments, which 
are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Healthcare 
Services and Alliances segments. The Pharmaceutical 
segment includes human health pharmaceutical and 
vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical 
products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, 
generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of 
human disorders.
We sell these human health pharmaceutical products 
primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, 
government agencies and managed health care 
providers such as health maintenance organizations, 
pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. 
ESG Report 2018
12GRI/SASB 	DISCLOSURESHuman health vaccine products consist of preventive 
pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily 
administered at physician offices. We sell these human 
health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, 
physician distributors and government entities.
The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, 
manufactures and markets animal health products, 
including pharmaceutical and vaccine products, for the 
prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major 
livestock and companion animal species, which we sell to 
veterinarians, distributors and animal producers.
The Healthcare Services segment provides services and 
solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics 
and clinical services to improve the value of care 
delivered to patients.
The Alliances segment primarily includes results from 
the company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP-related 
sales of Nexium and Prilosec, which concluded in 2018.
Our U.S. commercial operations are headquartered 
in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The company’s 
U.S. pharmaceutical business is conducted through 
divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd, 
Pennsylvania and Kenilworth, New Jersey. Our vaccines 
business is conducted through divisional headquarters 
located in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. Our Animal 
Health headquarters is located in Madison, New Jersey. 
Principal U.S. research facilities are located in Rahway 
and Kenilworth, New Jersey, West Point, Pennsylvania, 
Palo Alto, California, Boston, Massachusetts, South 
San Francisco, California and Elkhorn, Nebraska 
(Animal Health).
Principal research facilities outside the United States 
are located in Switzerland and China. Our manufacturing 
operations are headquartered in Whitehouse Station, 
New Jersey. We also have production facilities for 
human health products at nine locations in the United 
States and Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, 
through subsidiaries, we own or have an interest in manufacturing plants or other properties in Japan, 
Singapore, South Africa, and other countries in Western 
Europe, Central and South America, and Asia.
The principal market for trading of our Common Stock is 
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol 
MRK. As of January 31, 2019, there were approximately 
115,320 shareholders of record of the company’s 
Common Stock.
For more information, please see our 2018 Form 10-K 
(pages 1–3).
ESG Report 2018
13Latin	America  
7.9%Japan  
5.1%U.S. 
35.1%Europe (Western) and Canada  
29.3%  
Eastern	Europe,	Middle	East	and	Africa
4.4%
Asia-Pacific  
18.2%
EMPLOYEES	 BY	REGION	
WORKFORCE
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Number of employees as of December 31, 2018 (approximate) 70,000 68,000 68,000 69,000 69,000
People reached through major programs & partnerships 
(in millions) 1 267 188 293 311 357
1 Represents investments by our Office of Social Business Innovation, including our Office of Corporate Responsibility,  
MSD for Mothers  and our Foundation.GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization (Core)
GRI 102-8 Information on employees and 
other workers	 (Core)
SASB	000.A	 Patients	treated	 (#)
For more information on our global impact, please 
visit the Social Investments  page on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.
ESG Report 2018
14GRI 102-9 Supply chain (Core)
SASB	260a.1	 Methods	and	technologies	used	to	
maintain traceability of products 
throughout the supply chain
We manufacture, package and distribute products to 
more than 140 markets around the world. Our facilities, 
along with our external contractors, suppliers and 
partners, make up an integrated, interdependent global 
manufacturing network that is committed to delivering 
compliant, reliable supply to customers and patients on 
time, all the time, and every time.
Today we have 144 external manufacturing sites, 35 
Corporate Alliances and 98 Regional Alliances that we 
engage with to provide access to our products.
In 2018, we manufactured approximately 8,000 SKUs 
(stock keeping units), approximately 213.7 million doses 
of Human Health vaccines and approximately 102 billion 
doses of Animal Health vaccines.
Through “End-to-End Supply Planning,” we conduct 
efficient and balanced planning decisions to maximize 
business results and deliver medicines and vaccines to 
customers, which include hospitals and retail outlets, 
and patients when and where they need them. We 
partner with distributors, warehouses and freight 
forwarders on air, land and cold-chain supply methods.
Product & Supply Chain Security
We carefully manage our supply chain through strict 
policies and procedures designed to keep the legitimate 
drug distribution system safe and secure. In the 
U.S., for example, we require customers to purchase 
our products directly from our company or from 
distributors authorized by our company. In addition, 
we publish the names of authorized distributors on our 
corporate website.Serialization
Serialization — adding a 2D barcode with a unique 
identification number on each package that goes to 
market — is one of the tools we are investing in to 
secure our supply chain and prevent counterfeiting. 
A serial number on individual packages will enable 
anyone along the supply chain — from a distributor 
to a pharmacist to a patient — to scan the code and 
authenticate it as a genuine product of our company.
Serialization adds a robust layer to the company’s 
product-security platform. When associated with 
a regulatory mandate that specifies effective 
implementation and reporting to a national database, 
this method of product tracking can become a more 
meaningful product-security tool.Supplier Selection
We maintain strict quality standards no matter where 
our products are manufactured.
Once we have decided to engage an external 
manufacturer, that manufacturer is required to comply 
with our business requirements set forth in the 
contract, regardless of geography.
We conduct audits of every potential new supplier 
of active pharmaceutical ingredients or formulated 
products and sterile products, to determine its 
acceptability and compliance with Current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (CGMPs). We review the 
systems that the potential supplier uses to purchase 
materials in order to ensure the quality of the products 
the supplier hopes to provide to us.
ESG Report 2018
15Only if a supplier meets our stringent criteria, 
which include a review of the company’s regulatory 
inspection and outcome history, will we then negotiate 
a commercial agreement. These agreements include 
detailed provisions relating to the quality standards 
we require suppliers to uphold in order for them to 
manufacture a product for our use.
For more information on our supply chain, please 
visit the Manufacturing & Supply , Quality & Safety 
Standards , Vaccines , Oncology , Women’s Health , and 
Sourcing & Supplier Relations  pages on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.
GRI 102-10 Organizational changes during 
the reporting	period	 (Core)
None
GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle (Core)
We take a precautionary approach when evaluating 
potential human exposures and environmental 
impacts resulting from our manufacturing processes. 
Conservative assumptions are made when data are 
limited, and safety factors are added to address 
uncertainty and variability in our assessments.
This type of approach is particularly relevant to our 
work in toxicology, industrial hygiene and environmental 
protection.
By using more efficient and innovative processing 
methods and technologies, we are reducing the amount 
of energy, water and raw materials we use to make our 
products, thereby minimizing the amount of waste we 
generate and lowering our production costs.We go to great lengths to ensure that our products 
are designed, made and used in a safe, effective and 
environmentally sound manner. We deliver on this 
commitment by maintaining a highly trained and capable 
scientific staff and by actively pursuing manufacturing 
process improvements that minimize environmental 
impacts. We have set environmental sustainability goals  
to demonstrate this commitment with concrete targets 
and timelines. To ensure that our knowledge stays 
current with that of thought leaders and experts in the 
industry, we also collaborate with external resources 
and industry groups, such as the American Chemical 
Society and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Industries and Associations (EFPIA).
For more information, please visit the Product 
Stewardship  section on our Corporate Responsibility 
website.
GRI 102-12 External initiatives (Core)
Though not an exhaustive list, below are examples of 
third-party principles and initiatives we have endorsed.
Water
We have endorsed the UN CEO Water Mandate , a public 
commitment to adopt and implement a comprehensive 
approach to water management, and we have aligned 
our water program with its principles. CEO Water 
Mandate endorsers have a responsibility to make 
water-resource management a priority and to work 
with governments, UN agencies, nongovernmental 
organizations, local communities and other interested 
parties to address global water challenges. We are 
working to identify partnerships that will help us 
advance our water stewardship priorities in the areas 
in which we operate. These projects also support the 
goals of SDG 15, which strives to “protect, restore and 
promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems.”Human Rights
Our company believes in the dignity of every human 
being and recognizes the international human rights 
principles embodied in the United Nations Global 
Compact and as defined in the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and its subsequent 
changes, the International Covenant on Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant 
on Civil and Political Rights, the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development Guidelines for 
Multinational Enterprises and the core labor standards 
set out by the International Labor Organization.
Supply Chain
We expect appropriate standards of conduct and 
respect for human rights, consistent with our own, 
from our suppliers, contractors, vendors and external 
partners. Our human rights practices are informed 
and guided by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Initiative’s (PSCI’s) Pharmaceutical Industry Principles 
for Responsible Supply Chain Management , which set 
the standard for ethics, labor, health, safety and the 
environment for our industry.
Diversity 	&	Inclusion
In July 2018, we became a signatory to Paradigm for 
Parity® , a coalition of business leaders dedicated to 
addressing the corporate leadership gender gap. The 
goal of the coalition is to achieve full gender parity by 
2030, with a near-term goal of women holding at least 
30 percent of senior roles.
We are a member of the ILO Global Business and 
Disability Network, a partnership of multinational 
companies, national employers’ organizations, business 
networks and advocacy groups working in collaboration 
to promote the inclusion of persons with disabilities in 
the workplace.
ESG Report 2018
16In 2009, we signed onto the United Nations Women’s 
Empowerment Principles . These principles reflect seven 
areas of focus designed to promote gender equality 
in business.
Animal	Health
We encourage proactive vaccination of animals to 
prevent disease and support the responsible use of 
antibiotics to treat and improve the health of animals. 
As a global animal health company, we support the 
“Antibiotic Commitment ” established by the animal 
health industry.
Privacy
We are a member of the International Pharmaceutical 
Privacy Consortium  (IPPC), an association of research-
based pharmaceutical companies formed in 2002 
that has worldwide responsibility for the protection of 
personal health information and other types of personal 
data. We have been actively involved in the IPPC since 
2006, in order to engage in a constructive dialogue 
with European data-protection authorities and other 
regulators on privacy standards for biomedical research.
For more information, please visit the Reporting 
Frameworks , Key Initiatives , Water , Global Diversity & 
Inclusion , Direct-to-Consumer Advertising , Engaging 
with Health Care Professionals , Sales & Marketing 
Practices , Sourcing & Supplier Relations , Ensuring 
Ethical Business Practices , and Human Rights  pages on 
our Corporate Responsibility website.GRI 102-13 Membership associations (Core)
We engage with stakeholders through membership in 
numerous organizations. Within these groups, we aim 
to inform relevant debates in ways that are constructive 
and that ultimately foster improved patient access to 
medicines and vaccines globally.
Our company is a member of numerous industry and 
trade groups. We work with these groups because they 
represent the pharmaceutical industry and business 
community in debates led by governments and other 
stakeholders, and because they help the industry reach 
consensus on policy issues.
When our trade associations actively lobby on our core 
business issues, we seek to align their positions with our 
own. There are times, however, when we may not share 
the views of our peers or associations — both on issues 
that are central to our business and on those that, while 
important, are not directly material to our mission. 
With representatives on the boards and committees 
of industry groups and trade associations, we can voice 
questions or concerns we may have about policy or 
related activities. We may even recuse ourselves from 
related trade association or industry group activities 
when appropriate.
For a list of industry and trade groups of which we are a 
member, and our trade association dues (those greater 
than $25,000) that are used for political purposes, 
please visit our corporate website.Through our top three trade associations (listed 
below), we engaged on the following policy issues 
in 2018:
PHARMACEUTICAL 	RESEARCH 	AND	
MANUFACTURERS	OF	AMERICA	(P hRMA)
Defend the Medicare Part D program, Defend 
the Medicare Part B program, the 340 Drug 
Discount Program, Defend Intellectual Property 
Rights and government pricing reforms in Japan 
and Canada
U.S.	CHAMBER	OF	COMMERCE
Defend Intellectual Property Rights
BIOTECHNOLOGY 	INDUSTRY 	
ORGANIZATION (BIO)
Defend the Medicare Part D program, Defend 
the Medicare Part B program, the 340 Drug 
Discount Program and Defend Intellectual 
Property Rights
For more information, please visit the Public Policy  page 
on our Corporate Responsibility website.
STRATEGY
GRI 102-14 CEO letter (Core)
Please see the letter from our Chairman and CEO on 
page 4.
ESG Report 2018
17ETHICS	&	INTEGRITY
GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards,  
and norms of behavior (Core)
GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethics
SASB	510a.2	 Code	of	ethics	governing	
interactions with health care 
professionals
Our company’s Board of Directors and senior 
management, including the company’s chief ethics 
and compliance officer and the Corporate Compliance 
Committee, oversee our company’s ethics and 
compliance program . Our compliance program is 
designed to maintain a culture that promotes the 
prevention, detection and resolution of potential 
violations of law or company policies. The program is 
dynamic, involving regular assessments to ensure that 
it is responsive to the company’s evolving business and 
associated compliance risks.
The Ethics and Compliance Office is led by the senior 
vice president and chief ethics and compliance officer, 
who reports directly to the chief executive officer 
and provides regular quarterly updates to the Audit 
Committee of the Board of Directors on the state of 
ethics and compliance at the company. This reporting 
structure supports open communications with 
senior leadership and the Board regarding important 
developments that relate to ethics and compliance.As part of our long-standing commitment to ethics 
and good corporate citizenship, we adopt policies and 
procedures that facilitate compliance with the laws and 
regulations that govern the way we market and sell our 
medicines, vaccines and other products.
We have a well-established global ethics and compliance 
program that is consistent with the International 
Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & 
Associations (IFPMA) Code of Practice requirements, 
as well as with other applicable regional or country 
industry codes of conduct, including those issued by 
the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of 
America (PhRMA) and the European Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA).
Our company’s Office of Ethics is responsible for 
ensuring that employees are aware of and trained on the 
Code of Conduct  and company policies.
The Office of Ethics serves as a channel for the receipt 
and investigation of ethics and compliance-related 
concerns. Employees are encouraged to raise their 
concerns to their management, Human Resources, 
Compliance, Legal, or the Office of Ethics. Throughout 
2018 and 2019, the Office of Ethics enhanced its global 
ethics program, including the implementation of an 
improved reporting tool operated by an independent 
third party, named Speak Up at msdethics.com . Speak 
Up (formerly theadviceline.com) is available 24/7 and 
allows employees and suppliers to raise concerns or ask 
questions confidentially (where permitted by law) in 
their preferred language via phone or internet.
In alignment with our priority to protect and enhance 
our company’s reputation through safe, ethical and 
compliant behaviors, the Office of Ethics added three 
Regional Ethics Officers to their team and established 
a network of site-based volunteer Ethics Ambassadors 
outside of the United States.Engaging with Health Care Professionals
Ethical relationships with health care professionals are 
critical to our shared mission and vision to save and 
improve lives around the world.
An important part of achieving our mission is ensuring 
that health care professionals have balanced and 
accurate information about our products. All of 
our sales and marketing activities are conducted in 
accordance with our Guiding Principles for Ethical 
Business Practices Involving the Medical and Scientific 
Community. These principles are aligned with national 
regulations and worldwide industry codes, including 
the International Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Manufacturers & Associations Code of Practice  and 
the World Health Organization’s Ethical Criteria for 
Medicinal Drug Promotion .
The guiding principles serve as a bridge between 
countries’ laws and regulations, industry guidelines, 
and our own Code of Conduct , enabling us to interact 
with the medical and scientific communities, to meet 
our ethical and legal obligations and to contribute to 
improvements in human health.
For more information on our approach to ethics, 
please visit the Corporate Governance , Code of 
Conduct , Engaging with Health Care Professionals  
and Compliance  pages on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.
ESG Report 2018
18GOVERNANCE
GRI 102-18 Governance structure of the 
organization (Core)
We believe good governance is integral to achieving 
long-term shareholder value.
We are committed to governance policies and 
practices that serve the interests of our company and 
its many stakeholders. In exercising our fiduciary duty 
to our shareholders, we take a long-term perspective on 
shareholder value that takes into account our company’s 
relationship with society as a whole and the interests of 
our many diverse stakeholders.
The primary mission of our Board is to represent and 
protect the long-term interests of our company’s 
shareholders. The Board meets, at minimum, six times 
per year to provide strategic direction and to review our 
progress on a wide variety of measures.
In overseeing the affairs of the company, including 
our governance, the Board has established four 
committees , each of which is composed solely of 
independent directors. The four committees are:
• Audit Committee
• Compensation and Benefits Committee
• Governance Committee
• Research Committee
All of our standing committees are governed by 
Board-approved charters, which are available on our 
corporate website. Information on our company’s board 
committees can be found in our company’s 2019 Proxy 
Statement (pages 20–22).The Board Governance Committee has responsibility 
for overseeing the company’s corporate responsibility 
and public policy issues. Additional information on the 
Governance Committee’s responsibilities can be found in 
our company’s 2019 Proxy Statement (page 22) or in the 
charter for the Governance Committee available on our 
corporate website.
For more information on our governance structure, 
please visit the Corporate Governance  page on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.
GRI	102-19	 Delegation	of	responsibility
GRI 102-20 High-level accountability for 
sustainability topics
The Office of Corporate Responsibility
The Office of Corporate Responsibility is responsible 
for raising the visibility of corporate responsibility 
issues and activities across the company and fosters 
connections across business units and functional areas 
to integrate corporate responsibility principles into 
business policies, strategies and practices, including 
the enterprise risk management (ERM) process, and 
brings the voice of external stakeholders into decision-
making processes.
The Office of Corporate Responsibility also coordinates 
the development, implementation and communication 
of our global approach and, with strategic guidance from 
the Public Policy and Responsibility Council (PPRC), 
Executive Committee and the Board Governance 
Committee, is responsible for publishing the annual 
Corporate Responsibility report.GRI	102-21	 Access	to	the	board
The Board of Directors welcomes input from 
shareholders and other interested parties, and has 
established a process to receive these communications. 
Shareholders and interested parties may communicate 
directly with the Board, the independent Lead Director, 
the non-management or independent Directors as a 
group, or other members of the Board by writing to the 
following address:
Board of Directors  
Merck & Co., Inc.  
2000 Galloping Hill Road, K1-4157  
Kenilworth, NJ 07033 U.S.A.
GRI 102-22 Composition of the board and its 
committees
Please see GRI 102-18.
GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance 
body
Ken Frazier, our company’s chairman of the Board, 
president and chief executive officer, is the only 
company executive serving on the Board. Leslie A. 
Brun serves as the Board’s independent lead director. 
As lead director, Mr. Brun confers with management 
on matters involving the Board and serves as a liaison 
to shareholders on investor matters. Mr. Frazier is 
not a member of any of the Board’s committees; only 
independent directors serve on those committees.
The Board believes that the company and its 
shareholders are well-served by the Board’s current 
leadership structure. The independent lead director 
ESG Report 2018
19is appointed by the Board of Directors to a three-year 
term. Having an independent lead director vested with 
key duties and responsibilities and four independent 
Board committees chaired by independent directors 
promotes strong independent oversight of the 
chairman and chief executive officer and the rest of our 
management team.
For additional details on our Board’s leadership 
structure, please see our company’s 2019 Proxy 
Statement (pages 15–16).
GRI	102-24	 Board	nomination	and	  
selection processes
GRI	102-25	 Board	conflicts	of	interest
GRI	102-26	 Board	and	executive	roles
Our Board of Directors possesses broad expertise, skills, 
experience and perspectives that facilitate the strong 
oversight and strategic direction required to govern the 
company’s business and strengthen and support senior 
management.
In its regular discussions regarding Board composition —  
and especially in conjunction with the annual Board and 
committee evaluations —  the Governance Committee 
works with the Board to determine the appropriate 
mix of professional experience, expertise, educational 
background and other qualifications that are particularly 
desirable for our directors to possess in light of our 
current and future business strategies. The Governance 
Committee uses this input in its planning and director 
search process.
The Governance Committee considers diversity as 
an important factor when identifying prospective 
nominees for our Board. In 2019, the Governance 
Committee recommended, and the full Board adopted, In addition to the Governance Committee, other 
Board committees oversee issues indirectly related to 
corporate responsibility, such as audit and compliance, 
executive compensation and research.
For more information on our Board of Directors, please 
visit our 2019 Proxy Statement, the Leadership page 
on our corporate website, as well as the Corporate 
Governance  page on our Corporate Responsibility site.
GRI	102-29	 Board	identification	of	ESG	
impacts, risks, and opportunities
GRI	102-30	 Board	ESG	review	of	risk	
management processes
GRI 102-32 Report review
The Governance Committee oversees the company’s 
corporate governance, including the practices, policies 
and procedures of the Board and its committees. The 
primary functions of this committee include:
• Coordinate an annual evaluation of Board 
performance, and review Board compensation, 
related person transactions, and D&O indemnity 
and fiduciary liability insurance coverage for the 
company’s officers and non-employee Directors
• Review the company’s Good Manufacturing Practice 
compliance, including internal and external audits; 
our Environmental, Health and Safety practices; our 
supply chain manufacturing strategy and governance, 
as well as our third-party sourcing program; our 
business continuity plans; and our privacy policies 
and practices
• Review social, political and economic trends that 
affect our business; review the positions and 
strategies we pursue to influence public policy
• Monitor and evaluate our corporate citizenship 
programs and activities, including the support of a formal diversity policy. The policy reflects the Board’s 
long-standing commitment to ensure that directors 
represent diverse perspectives and areas of expertise 
important to fostering the company’s business success. 
Our new diversity policy provides that the Board does 
not discriminate against potential directors on the basis 
of gender, race, age, sexual orientation or ethnic and 
national background and further provides that having a 
board composed of diverse individuals is an important 
contributor to the Board’s overall effectiveness.
From time to time and including in 2018, the Governance 
Committee has retained independent search firms 
to assist in identifying candidates that reflect its 
director succession priorities, including these diversity 
objectives. At present, we have two members on our 
Board who represent members of underrepresented 
ethnic groups.
The Governance Committee also considers 
recommendations for director candidates made by 
shareholders and evaluates them using the same criteria 
as for other candidates. The Board, along with the 
Governance Committee, takes into account, among 
other things, the needs of the Board and the company 
in light of the overall composition of the Board, with a 
view toward achieving a balance of the skills, experience 
and attributes that are essential to the Board’s 
oversight role.
Six independent directors constitute our company’s 
Board Governance Committee. Chaired by Leslie A. 
Brun, the company’s lead independent director, the 
committee is responsible for advising the company’s 
Board of Directors and management on company 
policies and practices that pertain to the company’s 
responsibilities as a global corporate citizen, its special 
obligations as a health care company whose products 
and services affect health and quality of life around the 
world, and its commitment to the highest standards of 
ethics and integrity in all of its dealings.
ESG Report 2018
20The goal of the ERM process is to provide an ongoing 
review, implemented across the company and aligned 
to company values and ethics, to identify and assess 
risk, and to monitor risk and agreed-upon mitigating 
action. Furthermore, if a risk transforms into an 
incident, the ERM process is utilized to provide an 
effective response and business continuity plans are 
in place. If the ERM process identifies a material risk, 
it will be elevated through our CEO and our company’s 
Executive Committee to the full Board of Directors for 
its consideration.
For additional details on risk management, please see 
our company’s 2019 Proxy Statement (pages 19-20).
GRI	102-33	 Board	communication
Please see GRI 102-21 on page 19.
GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies for the 
board and senior executives
GRI 102-36 Process for determining 
remuneration
GRI 102-37  Remuneration shareholder 
resolutions
For information on our remuneration policies and 
practices for Board members and senior executives, 
please visit our 2019 Proxy Statement (pages 37–41).
GRI 102-38 CEO/employee pay ratio
For information on our CEO compensation, please visit 
our 2019 Proxy Statement (page 60).STAKEHOLDER 	ENGAGEMENT
GRI 102-40 Stakeholder engagement (Core)
GRI 102-41 Union representation (Core)
GRI	102-42	 Stakeholder	identification	 (Core)
GRI	102-43	 Approach	to	stakeholder	
engagement (Core)
Operating responsibly is fundamental to our long-
term success as a global biopharmaceutical company. 
It is also increasingly important to our stakeholders as 
expectations for how companies conduct themselves 
and contribute to society continue to rise.
We engage with a diverse group of stakeholders to more 
fully understand their needs and expectations, and to 
gain insights that can inform our efforts to improve 
access to health care and foster progress toward 
solutions that benefit society and support our business.
Patients and caregivers
We embrace the opportunity to engage with 
individual patients, patient advocacy organizations, 
and caregivers to better understand their health care 
journeys, expected outcomes and decision-making 
considerations. For more information on our work with 
patient groups, please visit the Patient Engagement  
page on our Corporate Responsibility website.
Health care professionals
We are committed to providing appropriate and 
balanced information to physicians and other health 
care providers about our medicines, vaccines and 
ongoing research. For more information, please visit the 
Engaging with Health Care Professionals  page on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.charitable, political and educational organizations and 
political candidates and causes
• Review legislative, regulatory, privacy and other 
matters that could impact our shareholders, customers, 
employees and the communities in which we operate
The Board has two primary methods of overseeing 
risk. The first method is through its Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) process, which allows for full 
Board oversight of the most significant risks facing the 
company. The second is through the functioning of the 
Board committees.
Management has established an ERM process 
to ensure a complete companywide approach to 
evaluating risk over six distinct but overlapping 
core areas: 
1.	RESPONSIBILITY 	AND	REPUTATION
Risks that may impact the well-being of the 
company, its employees, customers, patients, 
communities or reputation
2.	STRATEGY
Macro risks that may impact our ability to achieve 
long-term business objectives
3.	OPERATIONS
Risks in operations and cybersecurity that may 
impact our ability to achieve business objectives
4.	COMPLIANCE
Risks related to compliance with laws, regulations 
and company values, ethics and policies
5.	REPORTING
Risks to maintaining accurate financial statements 
and timely, complete financial disclosures
6.	SAFETY
Risks to employee, patient or community health 
and safety
ESG Report 2018
21Payers
We work with payers worldwide to inform their 
understanding of the relationship between the prices 
of our products and the true value they deliver to 
patients and health care systems. To learn more, 
please visit the Product Pricing  page on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.
Governments, multilateral organizations 
and regulators
We work with policy makers, legislators, multilateral 
organizations, and governments worldwide to ensure 
that policy and regulatory environments globally, 
nationally, and locally foster patient access to medicines 
and vaccines, and that they are conducive to ethical 
business practices, science and innovation. To learn 
more, please visit the Public Policy  page on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.
Shareholders
We strive to create shareholder value by identifying 
opportunities to meet customer needs and by managing 
our business responsibly to achieve superior financial 
results over the long term. To learn more, please visit 
the Stakeholder Engagement  page on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.
International and local organizations
We work hard to identify the best organizations and 
individuals to collaborate with in order to address 
societal challenges and to inform debate on pressing 
issues. To learn more, please visit the Key Initiatives  
page on our Corporate Responsibility website.Local communities
We work toward developing culturally appropriate 
mechanisms to engage and build relationships with our 
local community stakeholders. To learn more, please 
visit the Supporting Our Communities  page on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.
Environmental stakeholders
We work to reduce the environmental effects of our 
operations and products and to promote sustainable 
environmental practices within the company, among 
our partners, and throughout our supply chain. To learn 
more, please visit the Environmental Sustainability  page 
on our Corporate Responsibility website.Employees
We strive to foster a positive and inclusive working 
environment for our employees by providing 
resources to improve their health and that of their 
families, opportunities to further their professional 
development, and ways to get more involved in the 
communities where they live. To learn more, please visit 
the Engaging Our Employees  page on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.
As part of our mission to maintain a satisfying and 
productive work environment, we routinely survey all 
employees to learn about their perspectives on the 
business and on how we are responding to the needs of 
our global workforce. The Voice Survey, our company’s 
all-employee opinion survey, is our flagship employee 
feedback mechanism, and conducted on a biennial basis.
ESG Report 2018
22EMPLOYEE SURVEY
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Response rate to Voice Survey 78% NA 85% NA 86%
Engagement Index (favorable response rate) 1 79% NA 82% NA 83%
Culture Index (favorable response rate) 2 69% NA 72% NA 74%
NA: Not Administered; the Voice Survey is conducted on a biennial basis.
1 The Engagement Index is a composite that averages scores measured from three aspects: “Engaged,” “Enabled” and “Energized.”
2 The Culture Index is a composite that averages scores measured from three aspects: “Customer Focus,” “Reputation and Trust” 
and “Innovation.”
UNION	MEMBERSHIP
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Percentage of employees worldwide represented by an 
independent trade union or covered by a collective 
bargaining agreement (approximate) 31% 32% 29% 29% 30%
Suppliers and business partners
We strive to engage a diverse supplier base and to 
encourage responsible approaches on the part of 
suppliers regarding labor, employment, human rights, 
health and safety, ethics, diversity, and protection 
of the environment. To learn more, please visit the 
Sourcing & Supplier Relations  page on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.Trade and industry associations
We engage with stakeholders through membership in 
numerous organizations. Within these groups, we aim 
to inform relevant debates in ways that are constructive 
and that ultimately foster improved patient access 
to medicines and vaccines globally. To learn more, 
please visit the Public Policy  page on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 
(Core)
We interact with our stakeholders through a variety 
of communication channels and conduct stakeholder 
engagement at both the corporate and the local level, 
depending on the issue.
We engage with industry, governments, policy makers, 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), opinion 
leaders, patient groups, academic organizations, 
our employees and others to inform our policies, our 
practices and the development of our products.
Our intention is to build lasting relationships with 
our stakeholders; to understand their objectives, 
their expectations of our company and the potential 
for collaboration; and to enhance mutual trust and 
understanding.
We strive to exchange information, views and 
recommendations; to share activities and progress 
toward key goals; and to work in partnership toward 
common objectives.
Engagement may take the form of one-on-one 
meetings, expert-input forums, roundtable discussions, 
industry coalitions or formal partnerships.
In 2018, as part of our materiality assessment, we 
queried stakeholders on the topics that they felt were 
the most important for our company to be addressing 
going forward. A list of these topics can be found under 
GRI 102-47 on page 24.
ESG Report 2018
23REPORTING 	PRACTICE
GRI	102-45	 Entities	included	in	financial	
statements (Core)
All of our company’s global operations, including those 
of subsidiaries, fall within the scope of this report unless 
stated otherwise. This includes activities at all facilities, 
owned and leased, over which we have operational 
control, unless otherwise noted.
The basis for reporting on other matters specific to the 
operations of our business — including joint ventures, 
subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and 
other entities that can affect comparability from period 
to period — can be found in our 2018 Form 10-K, which 
is filed with the United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission and is also available in the “Financial 
Reports” section of our corporate website.
There have been no significant changes from 
previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or 
measurement methods applied in this report. Data 
regarding employees who are part of underrepresented 
ethnic groups are provided for the U.S. only.
GRI	102-46	 Defining	report	content	and	topic	
boundaries (Core)
GRI 102-47 Material aspects included (Core)
Understanding and prioritizing the corporate 
responsibility (CR) issues that matter most to our 
business and stakeholders enables us to focus on 
the right issues and report on them effectively and 
transparently.In 2018, in response to external expectations for 
increased levels of transparency in our reporting, we 
leveraged Datamaran’s Materiality Analysis tool —  
a business intelligence tool that uses big data and 
artificial intelligence to conduct real-time materiality 
assessments. 
The corporate responsibility materiality assessment 
process provided us an opportunity to listen and engage 
our many stakeholders, helping us improve as an 
organization and providing insight into future trends and 
potential business risks and opportunities that influence 
our ability to create value.Most recently, we have engaged with our Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) team to integrate our CR 
materiality process with the ERM approach with the 
goal to further integrate corporate responsibility into 
the overall business strategy.
The materiality matrix shown below represents the 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that 
internal and external stakeholders have identified as 
having significant financial, operational or reputational 
impact on the company and illustrates where our 
company can have a significant impact on society and 
the environment.
Importance to Business Success
Labor relations
Energy efficiency
Climate change
Governance
Community support and development
Bioethics
Biodiversity and land 
stewardship
Product stewardship
Water use and management
Clinical trials
Counterfeit drugs
Employee wellbeing
Data privacy and 
information security
Intellectual property
Access to health
Ethics and compliance
Product quality and safety
Research and 
development
Responsible sales 
and marketing
Diverse and inclusive workplace
Responsible pricing
Patient and caregiver engagement
Occupational health 
and safety
Supply chain responsibility
Human rights
Antimicrobial stewardship
Disease awareness and education
Waste management
Transparency 
and reporting
Digital innovation
Employment practices
Talent recruitment, retention 
and development
Our Prioritized ESG Issues
Importance to Stakeholders
HIGHER
HIGHER
ESG Report 2018
24The following topics were identified as being the most 
material corporate responsibility topics for our company:
• Access to health
• Data privacy and information security
• Diversity and inclusive workplace
• Ethics and compliance
• Intellectual property
• Occupational health and safety
• Patient and caregiver engagement
• Product quality and safety
• Research and development
• Responsible pricing
• Responsible sales and marketing
All of the topics above are within the boundaries of 
our responsibility. For more information, please visit 
the Corporate Responsibility Materiality  page on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.
GRI 102-48 Restatements (Core)
Any restatements of information are included in the 
footnotes beneath the specific performance data tables.
GRI 102-49 Reporting changes (Core)
There were no significant changes from previous 
reporting periods. However, we updated our Corporate 
Responsibility materiality analysis this past year, which is 
outlined in GRI 102-47.GRI 102-50 Reporting period (Core)
GRI	102-51	 Date	of	most	recent	report	 (Core)
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle (Core)
We report on our corporate responsibility initiatives and 
progress annually. These disclosures cover the prior  
calendar year, from January 1 to December 31, 2018. 
To ensure that readers have the most up-to-date 
information, some of the narrative in the report is about 
decisions and initiatives that took place in early 2019. 
Our last report was published in September 2018.
Our comprehensive 2018/2019 Corporate Responsibility 
report is available at MSDresponsibility.com .
GRI 102-53 Report contact (Core)
We welcome your feedback on our Corporate 
Responsibility report, as well as any other  
comments or questions you may have. You may  
contact us at the address below, or email us at  
corporate.responsibility@msd.com .
Office of Corporate Responsibility  
Merck & Co., Inc.  
2000 Galloping Hill Road  
Kenilworth, NJ 07033 U.S.A.  
908-740-4000
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 
with the GRI Standards (Core)
GRI 102-55 GRI content index (Core)
Our company’s online Corporate Responsibility report 
was developed in alignment with the GRI Standards at 
the Core level.GRI 102-56 External assurance (Core)
WSP conducted an independent third-party review 
of our 2018 greenhouse gas and water inventories 
and provided limited assurance for the data that we 
submit to CDP and for inclusion in the Corporate 
Responsibility report.
While we did not obtain external verification for the 
full report, we did speak with numerous external 
stakeholders, representing a variety of constituencies, 
about the company’s planned approach to reporting,  
our corporate responsibility materiality assessment 
process and the broad material areas upon which we  
planned to report. The company reflects these 
consultations, where feasible and appropriate, on our 
website, and will use the insights gained through  
these and continuing discussions with stakeholders  
to inform future reporting.
To view WSP’s limited assurance letter for our 
environmental data, please visit the Reporting  page on 
our Corporate Responsibility website.
ESG Report 2018
25ECONOMIC
ECONOMIC 	PERFORMANCE
GRI	201-1	 Direct	economic	value	generated	
and distributed
We believe that corporate responsibility is critical 
to our business success and can provide us with 
new opportunities to create shared, or integrated, 
value — that is, addressing social issues through 
business solutions. At the most basic level of delivering 
integrated value, our principal economic contribution 
to society is made through the discovery, development, 
manufacturing and marketing of our products, which 
directly improve and maintain the health of individuals 
and communities around the world, helping them to 
lead more productive lives.FINANCIAL 	INFORMATION
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Sales (in millions) $42,237 $39,498 $39,807 $40,122 $42,294
Research and development expenses (in millions) $7,290 $6,796 $10,261 $10,339 $9,752
Number of employees (approximate) 70,000 68,000 68,000 69,000 69,000
Number of stockholders of record 142,000 135,500 129,500 121,700 115,800
Annual cash dividend paid per share $1.77 $1.81 $1.85 $1.89 $1.99
Global tax expense as reported on income 
statement (in millions) $5,349 $942 $718 $4,103 $2,508
The effective income tax rates of 28.8 percent in 2018, 
62.9 percent in 2017 and 15.4 percent in 2016 reflect  
the impacts of acquisition and divestiture-related  
costs, restructuring costs and the beneficial impact  
of foreign earnings.
For additional information about our business and 
economic performance, please visit our Form 10-K for 
the year ended December 31, 2018.
Impact investing
One of our growing innovative approaches is impact 
investing, through which we are advancing sustainable 
global health solutions in line with our company’s overall 
objectives. Through impact investing, we are able to 
deploy financial resources in ways that may generate 
not only improved access to health care for underserved 
populations, but also financial returns and commercial 
opportunities — all while growing a sustainable global 
health ecosystem and attracting additional capital 
and partners.Impact investing is led by our Office of Social Business 
Innovation with guidance from the Impact Investing 
Committee. Established in 2019, the Impact Investing 
Committee is a cross-functional team of senior company 
leaders that reviews and approves new investments 
in line with established policies and guidelines and 
monitors the financial and social returns of the impact 
portfolio. We are also members of the Global Impact 
Investing Networ k (GIIN) , through which we can 
contribute to and benefit from the growing body of 
expertise in the impact investing ecosystem.
For more information, please visit the Social 
Investments  page on our Corporate Responsibility 
website.
ESG Report 2018
26GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other 
risks and opportunities due to 
climate change
As a global biopharmaceutical company, we recognize 
the important role we play in identifying, adapting and 
responding to the public health risks associated with 
climate change, such as threats to clean air and water, 
insufficient food supplies and the spread of disease. 
We believe our long-standing support of stronger health 
systems in underserved areas is even more important 
given the evidence that certain disease patterns are 
associated with changing climate conditions.
We have made it a priority to reduce our demand 
for energy and have established internal policies and 
practices focused on reducing energy use at all of our 
sites and minimizing GHG generation throughout 
the company. By taking these steps, we are not only 
minimizing GHG emissions but also reducing our 
operating costs and mitigating the business impacts 
expected to be associated with future climate change 
requirements.
Energy-efficiency and demand-reduction projects 
will continue to contribute to lowering our energy 
consumption and reducing our direct GHG emissions. 
In addition, we will continue to optimize systems, 
consolidate excess facility space when possible, shift 
power supplies to combined heat and power systems 
and utilize renewable energy sources.
In 2019, we have over 100 projects in progress, that 
when completed will reduce carbon dioxide emissions 
from our facilities by over 30,000 metric tons.
For more information, please visit the Climate Change 
& Energy Use  page on our Corporate Responsibility 
website, our response to the CDP Climate  questionnaire, 
as well as our 2018 Form 10-K (page 19).GRI	201-3	 Benefit	plan	coverage
Worldwide, our company offers retirement benefits 
that are competitive with those of our peers and 
the general industry in each market we serve. In the 
U.S., for example, we offer a defined benefit pension 
plan as well as a 401(k) plan with company matching 
contributions.
To assist in financial decision making, we offer all U.S. 
employees comprehensive financial education and 
guidance through Ernst & Young at no cost. U.S.-based 
employees who are at least age 55, and those who have 
at least 10 years of service after age 40 1, are eligible for 
subsidized medical benefits at retirement.
Outside the U.S., we have more than 80 pension plans 
(including defined benefit, cash balance, and defined 
contribution plans) in over 40 countries. These plans 
often supplement government-sponsored social 
security pension benefits to improve employees’ 
financial security through added retirement income. 
While benefits may vary by region and country, we 
offer health, life and injury, disability and business travel 
insurance, along with retirement income benefits. In 
addition, in many countries, where legally permitted, 
including the U.S., we extend health care and various 
insurance benefits to employees’ domestic partners and 
their partners’ eligible dependent children.
For more information, please visit the Financial Well-
Being  page on our Corporate Responsibility website, or 
our 2018 Form 10-K (pages 110–116). 
1 For certain employees, service before 40 also counts.INDIRECT 	ECONOMIC 	IMPACTS
(CR material topics: Responsible pricing, 
intellectual property)
MANAGEMENT 	APPROACH
We are working to bring our medicines and vaccines 
to more people around the world in ways that are as 
accessible and affordable as possible for the patients 
who need them.
We strive to commercialize our products in a way that 
both develops our business and meets local needs in a 
responsible, accessible and efficient manner.
While each individual situation varies based on factual 
circumstances and market dynamics, generally, 
we consider:
• Value provided to patients
• Value provided to health care systems
• Unmet need
• Access
• R&D sustainability
• Competition
We have a long history of making our medicines and 
vaccines accessible and affordable through responsible 
pricing practices and industry-leading patient access 
programs. We are proud of the progress we have 
made to date and remain focused on responsible and 
sustainable pricing of our medicines moving forward.
ESG Report 2018
27As health care systems in many developed markets are 
moving to a value-based care model, we are working 
with payers and other stakeholders to find flexible 
approaches to pricing. These include the use of quality- 
and performance-based contracts where payment is 
linked to quality metrics or improved health outcomes.
Intellectual property and access to medicines in 
low-income countries
As a global health care company, our primary role is 
to discover and develop innovative medicines and 
vaccines that treat unmet medical needs and prevent 
illness around the world. For many decades, intellectual 
property protection has promoted an environment 
conducive to research and development in the 
pharmaceutical arena.
Although alternative approaches for incentivizing 
innovation and investment in medical R&D are 
advocated by some, none of these approaches has 
yet demonstrated the capacity to generate enough 
sustained investment necessary to discover and develop 
new medicines. While we are interested in new ideas 
and proposals, it would not be in the best interests of 
patients to advance unproven alternatives that would 
fail to incentivize and sustain the large investments 
necessary to develop and bring forth new medicines.
We also recognize that we have a role to play in 
helping to ensure that our products are accessible and 
affordable to patients in need. We are committed to 
pursuing approaches to foster access to high quality 
health care and critical medicines. While our company 
files for patents in commercially significant markets to 
provide the continued incentive to support innovation, 
given the challenges that many people in low-income 
countries face to afford certain medicines and the 
very substantial resource constraints facing their governments, we have had a long-standing general 
policy of not filing for patents for our products in these 
markets, and currently do not file in any low-income 
country defined as such by the World Bank in its 
Country and Lending Groups classifications.
For more information, please visit the Key Initiatives , 
Product Registration  and Product Pricing  pages on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.
SASB	240b.2	Percentage	change	in:	(1) average	
list price and (2) average net price 
across U.S. product portfolio 
compared to previous year
SASB	240b.3	Percentage	change	in:	(1)	list	
price and (2) net price of product 
with largest increase compared to 
previous year
As part of our commitment to transparency, in 2017 
we started disclosing information on our Corporate 
Responsibility website about the price of medicines 
across our portfolio in the U.S. through our U.S. Pricing 
Transparency Report .
GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and 
services supported
While we are committed to addressing underlying 
barriers to access through social investments, we 
recognize there are patients who need access now. 
To complement our philanthropic giving and impact 
investing that target long-term improvements in the 
health ecosystem, we operate programs to provide 
direct access to our medicines and vaccines to patients 
in need now and where market-based solutions are 
inadequate or unavailable. We remain committed to donating our medicines and vaccines through organized 
programs, as appropriate. The primary programs 
involving donations of our products are: our Medical 
Outreach Program , the MECTIZAN® (ivermectin) 
Donation Program  and our U.S.-based Patient 
Assistance Programs .
For more information, please visit the Social 
Investments  page on our Corporate Responsibility 
website.
GRI 203-2 Indirect economic impacts
SASB	240a.1	 Access	to	health	care	for	priority	
diseases and in priority countries
SASB	240a.2	Products	on	WHO’s	List	of	
Prequalified	Medicinal	Products
Pricing and access in low- and middle-
income countries
In many countries, patients are able to obtain health 
care and medicines at competitive prices through 
public and private health insurance plans that negotiate 
significant rebates and discounts with pharmaceutical 
manufacturers.
In low- and middle-income countries, however, we 
recognize that access to and funding for health care can 
be limited. While major public health programs in these 
countries that focus on health priorities such as HIV/
AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and routine immunization 
are heavily subsidized by the government through 
international organizations and private funding, health 
insurance programs often do not exist or are limited. 
As a result, patients in these countries frequently must 
pay the price of medicines out of pocket, a particularly 
ESG Report 2018
28PRODUCT 	PRICING
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Number of products that are supported with 
differential pricing 1, 2 35 35 40 42 42
Number of countries where inter- and/or intra-country 
pricing has been implemented 3 114 121 123 125 128
Investment in patient- and provider-education 
programs (in millions) $52 $80 $80 $90 $115
NOTE: Year-over-year differential pricing performance metrics can be impacted based on the timing of local-market or third-party 
contract renewals and/or product life-cycle introductions or deletions. Therefore, increases or decreases in these pricing metrics 
should not be interpreted as anticipating the level of trend growth in future years.
1 Differential pricing intended to facilitate access for the at-need population.
2 Products include HIV treatments, vaccines and other patented products.
3 Countries as defined by the World Bank 2017 GNI Classification, including UN-defined Least Developed Countries.
GRANTS 	AND	CONTRIBUTIONS
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Grants and contributions (total cash, in-kind and product) 
(in millions) $1,543 $1,820 $2,238 $2,722 $2,793
Cash grants and contributions (in millions) $111 $133 $117 $94 $84
Product donations through U.S. Patient Assistance 
Programs (in millions) $433 $567 $798 $1,112 $1,242
Product donations for ex-U.S. programs and U.S. disaster 
relief (in millions) 1 $997 $1,117 $1,320 $1,513 $1,464
Valuation of employee volunteer time (in-kind, in millions) 2 $2.2 $2.9 $2.6 $3.2 $3.1
1 Includes the Medical Outreach Program (including U.S. disaster relief), the African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships 
(2014–2016 only), the MECTIZAN® Donation Program, the GARDASIL ® Access Program (2014 only), and MSD division and 
subsidiary donations.
2 Includes valuation of volunteer time for only those employees who participated in the MSD Fellowship for Global Health program 
and our company’s Pro Bono Legal and other skills-based volunteer programs.daunting task for families living near or below the 
poverty line.
Therefore, we develop and support various sustainable 
strategies to improve access in low- and middle-income 
countries, including directing differential pricing 
to patient sub-segments, either directly through 
national or local programs or indirectly through third-
party health care funding sources that demonstrate 
reasonable and secure product distribution to intended 
patient segments and subject to applicable legal 
requirements.
Currently, we have differential pricing for 42 of our 
products, and 128 countries have implemented inter- or 
intra-country pricing for at least one of our products. 
This notable increase of differentiated prices in both the 
scope of our products and eligible countries is the result 
of several initiatives, including expanding innovative 
concession program offers for our hepatitis C virus and 
women’s health product portfolios in low- and middle-
income markets and the continuation of HIV and vaccine 
access pricing for Gavi-eligible and Gavi-graduated 
countries, as well as enabling expanded access through 
reduced vaccine pricing with UNICEF.
One important way to achieve the Sustainable 
Development Goal of improving health and well-
being globally is through donations of medicines and 
vaccines that address specific health needs, whether 
in communities with a fundamental lack of access 
to health care and services or in acute or protracted 
humanitarian crises.
Our product donation programs and initiatives include 
our MECTIZAN® (ivermectin) Donation Program , MSD 
Medical Outreach Program (MMOP) , Product Pricing , 
and our U.S. Patient Assistance Progra ms.
ESG Report 2018
29Product registration
An important goal for our company is to reduce the 
historic gap in product introduction between high-
income and lower-income countries.
In addition to having our medicines and vaccines 
approved by stringent regulatory authorities, when 
relevant to enhancing access in low- and middle-income 
countries, we also work to have certain medicines 
and vaccines prequalified through the World Health 
Organization (WHO) prequalification process.
In order to make our products available to the people 
who need them throughout the world, we registered 
124 products and devices in 2018. The majority of these 
products were registered in low- and middle-income 
countries in the Asia Pacific, Central and Eastern 
Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Americas regions.
The table to the right is a list of products that have been 
prequalified by WHO as of March 31, 2019.
To learn more, please visit the Product Registration  
page on our Corporate Responsibility website.PRODUCTINTERNATIONAL 	 
NONPROPRIETARY	 NAME	DATE	OF	
PREQUALIFICATION
FAMILY	PLANNING
MARVELON	 28® Ethinylestradiol + Desogestrel October 2010
EXLUTON® Lynestrenol June 2010
IMPLANON 	NXT® Etonogestrel May 2013
VACCINES
MMR-II® Measles, Mumps, Rubella Virus Vaccine Live December 2008
ROTATEQ® Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent October 2008
GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, 
Recombinant (including a VVM) May 2009
GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, 
Recombinant (two-dose regimen to support its programmatic 
feasibility in developing countries) October 2014
GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, 
Recombinant (compatibility for use in a controlled temperature chain 
to facilitate its administration in high-temperature, low-cold-chain 
infrastructure areas of developing countries) May 2016
GARDASIL®9 Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, 
Recombinant (including a two-dose-regimen variation) February 2018
VARIVAX® Varicella Virus Vaccine Live (first varicella vaccine to receive  
WHO prequalification) February 2018
HIV/AIDS	 TREATMENTS
STOCRIN® Efavirenz (600mg tablet, Oral Solution 30mg)  
Efavirenz (50mg tablet, 200mg tablet)May 23, 2006  
May 14, 2008
CRIXIVAN® Indinavir Sulfate May 23, 2006
ESG Report 2018
30U.S.	Patient	Assistance	Programs
We believe that no one should go without the medicines 
or vaccines they need.
More than 57 years ago, our company created our 
first U.S. patient assistance program (PAP) to keep 
affordable medicines within patients’ reach.
That is why our company’s U.S. patient assistance 
program, a separately incorporated nonprofit charitable 
organization, provides certain medicines and adult 
vaccines for free to eligible people who do not have 
prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, 
without our assistance, cannot afford our medicines 
and vaccines.
This approach is consistent with our company’s 
commitment to improve access to our medicines and 
adult vaccines for people who need them.
Through these programs, we have provided more 
than 41.6 million free prescriptions and adult vaccines, 
representing a total value (at wholesale acquisition cost) 
of more than $7 billion.
To learn more, please visit the U.S. Patient Assistance 
Programs  page on our Corporate Responsibility website.PATIENT 	ASSISTANCE 	PROGRAMS 	SUMMARY
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Patients utilizing our U.S. Patient Assistance Programs 
(in thousands) 1 301 293 306 244 233
30-day prescriptions filled (in millions) 1.6 1.6 1.7 2.1 2.1
1 Totals represent 2014–2018 volumes of our U.S. Patient Assistance Programs.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
(CR material topic: Ethics and compliance)
MANAGEMENT 	APPROACH
An important component of our corporate ethics and 
compliance program is our annual ethics and policy 
certification. The annual review process requires 
selected company employees to certify adherence to 
corporate policies on preventing bribery and corruption, 
antitrust-law compliance, and conflict-of-interest and 
insider trading. These employees are also expected to 
regulate their outside activities to avoid any conflicts 
of interest, and to certify, in writing, whether actual or 
potential conflicts of interest exist.
GRI 205-2 Communications and training on 
anti-corruption
Ethics and compliance training is an important part of 
creating a strong culture, and our program is reflective 
of the Code of Conduct and corporate policies tailored to 
meet the needs of different groups of employees within 
the organization. All employees are required to complete 
the assigned ethics and compliance courses.Training on our Code of Conduct is designed as an 
annual training series that is assigned to all employees 
worldwide. The series is focused on our core values: 
Patients First, Ethics & Integrity, Respect for People, 
and Innovation & Scientific Excellence.
The 2018 series consisted of five modules including Code 
of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, Adverse 
Event Reporting, Data Privacy (including General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)) and Preventing 
Discrimination and Harassment.
Ethics and compliance content is also integrated into 
business and leadership development courses for 
managers and senior leaders on an ongoing basis. Ethics 
and integrity are key leadership competencies that are 
assessed as part of annual performance reviews and 
play an integral role in our decisions about employee 
advancement within the company.
ESG Report 2018
31OFFICE OF ETHICS
2015 2016 2017 2018
Employees trained on the Code of Conduct training series 99% 100% 100% 99%
Employees who responded to the disclosure statement on the 
Conflicts of Interest form 100% 100% 100% 100%
We abide by strict ethical standards in our own 
operations, and we insist on equivalent standards from 
our suppliers. Our Business Partner Code of Conduct  
is based on our own Code of Conduct , as well as on 
the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative’s (PSCI’s) 
Pharmaceutical Industry Principles and the Ten 
Principles of the UN Global Compact .
For more information, please visit the Code of Conduct , 
Compliance , Engaging with Health Care Professionals , 
and Sourcing & Supplier Relations  pages on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.
ANTI-COMPETITIVE 	BEHAVIOR
(CR material topic: Responsible sales and marketing)
MANAGEMENT 	APPROACH
We adhere to strict ethical sales and marketing 
practices in all our businesses, whether 
pharmaceuticals, vaccines or animal health.
Our interactions with providers, other customers and 
consumers are governed by laws and regulations, and by 
our long-standing global Code of Conduct , Our Values 
& Standards .
We enforce these external and internal standards 
through our ethics and compliance  program.Our ethics and compliance program seeks to address 
and prevent inappropriate practices, and we evaluate 
our policies and practices as appropriate. Our practices 
are monitored, and compliance is enforced to ensure 
that our interactions with customers and consumers 
help inform their decisions accurately and in a balanced 
manner. We believe that compliance with all policies 
governing scientific, business and promotion-related 
activities, in letter and spirit, is a corporate and 
individual responsibility of the highest order. Through 
our ethical behavior, we strive to ensure that scientific 
information predominates in prescribing decisions.
Our Guiding Principles for Ethical Business Practices 
Involving the Medical and Scientific Community include 
the following:
• We provide current, accurate and balanced 
information about our products; we share sound 
scientific and educational information; and we support 
medical research and education.
• Our employees are prohibited from offering health 
care professionals items of personal benefit, such as 
tickets to sporting events, support for office social 
events or gift certificates for stores or golf outings. 
Where permitted, we may occasionally provide health 
care professionals with approved educational items 
that are not of substantial monetary value and that 
are intended primarily for educational purposes. Such 
materials may include medical textbooks, medical 
journals and anatomical models.• Our employees and others speaking on behalf of the 
company may give presentations specifically designed 
to provide the type of information that practicing 
health care professionals have indicated is needed 
and most useful in the treatment of their patients, in 
accordance with U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) regulations and the regulations of other 
countries in which the presentations or discussions 
are taking place.
• A company representative may offer occasional 
modest meals to health care professionals in 
connection with an informational presentation; 
however, such meals must be in accordance with local 
codes and regulations.
Our sales representatives must provide truthful, 
non-misleading information in their interactions 
with the medical and scientific community. Our 
compliance program is consistent with applicable laws 
and regulations, and is aligned with the International 
Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & 
Associations (IFPMA) Code of Pharmaceutical 
Marketing Practices , as well as with regional and 
country industry codes, such as the  Pharmaceutical 
Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) 
Code  and the Compliance Program Guidance for 
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers , published by the Office 
of the Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services.
For more information, please visit the Sales & Marketing 
Practices  page on our Corporate Responsibility website.
GRI	206-1	 Anti-competitive	behavior
We try to help consumers achieve better health 
outcomes by delivering accurate, relevant and 
understandable information on disease prevention, 
identification and potential treatment. To remain 
true to this goal, we adhere to the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and guidelines 
ESG Report 2018
32governing DTC promotion, meet or exceed all 
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America 
(PhRMA) guidelines on DTC advertising , and follow a 
comprehensive set of internal policies and practices 
when engaging in DTC advertising within the U.S.
Our company has a long-standing policy of voluntarily 
submitting new U.S.-based DTC advertising campaigns 
to the FDA for its review and comment before running 
them. Under our DTC policies and practices, the 
information provided in our DTC advertising must:
• Contain appropriate product benefit and risk 
information
• Be appropriately balanced, consistent with FDA 
regulations, and use appropriate “taste and tone”
• Be approved by our company’s Promotion Review 
Team, a governing body consisting of a team of 
reviewers (including the job owner, an attorney, 
a physician, a representative from the Office of 
Promotion and Advertising Review and a product 
scientific specialist) who ensure that promotional 
material is clinically and scientifically accurate, 
compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and 
compliant with company policy
We inform and educate health care professionals about 
our products before we advertise them to consumers. 
We implement comprehensive programs to educate 
physicians and other prescribers about a new product 
for an appropriate period of time before starting 
product-specific DTC broadcast advertising in the U.S.
These principles and our practices are reflected in the 
PhRMA Guiding Principles on Direct-to-Consumer 
Advertisements about Prescription Medicines .
For more information, please visit the Direct-to-
Consumer Advertising  page on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.ENVIRONMENTAL
MATERIALS
Developing innovative, cost-efficient manufacturing 
processes with low environmental impact aligns with 
our company’s environmental sustainability strategy.
Our integrated strategy involves several stages and 
aims to provide innovative solutions rather than 
incremental improvements to historical practices. 
We see science and innovation as critical enablers 
to developing sustainable, low-cost manufacturing 
processes that provide both environmental and 
economic benefits over the life cycles of our products.
By using more efficient and innovative processing 
methods and technologies, we are reducing the amount 
of energy, water and raw materials we use to make our 
products, thereby minimizing the amount of waste we 
generate and lowering our production costs.
GOAL
By 2020, at least 90 percent of our new human 
health active pharmaceutical ingredient 
processes will meet internal sustainability 
targets at launch.
2018 PROGRESS
On track to establish and meet targets that 
will drive improvements in the material 
efficiency of our new products
As part of our Green & Sustainable Science program, 
we calculate the Process Mass Intensity (PMI) of our human health products. PMI represents the number 
of kilograms of raw materials (including water) used 
to produce one kilogram of an active pharmaceutical 
ingredient (API) or biologic. PMI indicates how 
efficiently we convert raw materials into final products. 
We use this metric internally to compare different 
manufacturing methods, identify process improvement 
opportunities and track our progress.
Packaging
We have adopted “Design for Environment” guidelines 
that help our engineers design new product packages 
that are better for the environment by minimizing 
package sizes and using more environmentally friendly 
materials, where possible.
GOAL
100 percent of the packaging for our new 
human health products will be reviewed for 
environmental impact and improvement.
2018 PROGRESS
100 percent of products launched in 2018
To help us evaluate the differences in environmental 
impacts between packaging options, we use a simplified 
life-cycle assessment (LCA) tool that provides 
information on the environmental impacts generated 
by the materials used in our packaging. The tool helps 
us to make informed decisions as to which materials are 
better for the environment.
Pharmaceuticals in the environment
We conduct environmental risk assessments on our 
products, from the development phase through 
product launch, to understand and manage product 
ESG Report 2018
33impacts from manufacturing and patient use. We 
assess products in a manner consistent with the most 
stringent applicable global regulations, including the 
regulatory review processes of the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration  and the European Medicines Agency . 
Product environmental safety profiles are reassessed 
during periodic renewals of product filings, and risk-
mitigation actions are implemented when needed.
For more information, please visit the Materials & 
Packaging , Waste Management , Product Stewardship , 
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment  and Nanotechnology  
pages on our Corporate Responsibility website.
GRI 301-3 Reclaimed materials
Solvents play a key role in the manufacturing of our 
products, as well as in equipment cleaning. Because 
of their significance to our business and the life-cycle 
impact they represent, we focus on designing our 
processes to minimize or avoid their use where practical. 
Where we do use solvents, we maximize efficiency, and 
control them in our emissions, effluents and waste.
We have an active Green & Sustainable Science  
program to design our new processes using fewer 
solvents and other hazardous materials, and to reuse 
and recycle more of the solvents we do use. For cleaning 
our manufacturing equipment, we use water-based 
methods where they are effective as solvents. At each 
of our manufacturing sites, we have engineers who 
are responsible for identifying and driving process-
improvement projects. When it is not practical to reuse 
regenerated solvents in our own production processes, 
we either work with suppliers who recover the spent 
solvents for resale to other industries, or safely burn 
them as a source of energy. Any used solvents that 
leave our site as hazardous waste are managed at 
offsite facilities that are on our list of approved waste 
management sites.SOLVENT 	USE	(MT)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Fresh solvents used 24,000 15,000 20,000 19,000 18,560
Recovered solvents used 11,000 7,000 8,000 7,300 6,553
Total 35,000 22,000 28,000 26,300 25,113
NOTE: Previously reported data have been restated per our methodology, which includes adding facilities that have been acquired 
and removing facilities that have been sold as operating sites.
For more information, please visit the Product Stewardship  page on our Corporate Responsibility website.
26%
In 2018, we used recovered solvents 
for more than a quarter of our 
manufacturing and cleaning needs.
ESG Report 2018
34ENERGY
Our energy strategy aligns with the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by striving 
to increase our use of renewable electricity sources, 
making energy efficiency improvements and supporting 
science-based reductions of our greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions.
GOAL
By 2025, at least 50 percent of our purchased 
electricity will come from renewable sources. By 
2040, 100 percent of our purchased electricity 
will come from renewable sources. 1
2018 PROGRESS
14.1 percent of our purchased electricity 
comes from renewables.
1 We have defined “purchased electricity” as electricity sourced 
from external suppliers as well as renewable electricity that 
was generated and utilized onsite where we retained the 
renewable attributes or where we have obtained renewable 
attributes through contract.We have made it a priority to reduce our demand 
for energy and have established internal policies and 
practices focused on reducing energy use at all of our 
sites and minimizing GHG generation throughout 
the company. By taking these steps, we are not only 
minimizing GHG emissions but also reducing our 
operating costs and mitigating the business impacts 
expected to be associated with future climate change 
requirements.
Our Energy Center of Excellence (CoE) identifies, shares 
and standardizes best practices, and prioritizes the 
funding of energy projects to reduce energy use across 
the company. Our manufacturing facilities, warehouses, 
laboratories, major offices and vehicle fleet are the 
primary targets of our energy-demand-reduction 
programs, as they represent the majority of our energy 
consumption.We have established an Energy Capital Fund of up 
to $12 million per year in order to transition to more 
energy-efficient technology and to better position the 
company to respond to energy demands in the future. 
The Energy Capital Fund supports the implementation 
of projects with a simple four-year payback averaged 
over the entire portfolio. In 2018, we allocated 
approximately $9.8 million to energy projects. The 
completed projects will result in $1.65 million in annual 
savings and a reduction of more than 6,000 metric tons 
of carbon dioxide from our facilities.
For more information on our initiatives, policies 
and accomplishments, please visit the Climate 
Change & Energy Use  page on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.
ESG Report 2018
35GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (Scopes 1 + 2)
ENERGY 	USE	SUMMARY
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Total energy use (GJ) 21,926,200 21,217,200 20,851,700 19,252,800 19,113,300
SCOPE	1	&	LOCATION-BASED	 SCOPE	2	ENERGY	 USE	(%	OF	TOTAL) 1
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Natural gas (Scope 1) 60% 60% 61% 59% 62%
Purchased electricity (Scope 2) 2, 3 23% 24% 23% 23% 22%
Fleet fuel (Scope 1) 12% 11% 12% 13% 10%
Purchased steam (Scope 2) 3% 3% 2% 3% 3%
Fuel oil (Scope 1) 2% 2% 2% 2% 2%
Spent solvents (Scope 1) 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0%
Coal (Scope 1) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Bio-fuel (Scope 1) 0.3% 0.3% 0.4% 0.6% 0.6%
Renewable energy generated and used onsite 4 0.0% 0.01% 0.04% 0.04% 0.05%
1 May not add to 100 percent due to rounding.
2 Reported using Scope 2 location-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
3 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits (RECs) have been sold.
4 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits or guarantees of origin have been 
retained or retired.
ESG Report 2018
36GRI 302-4 Energy reductions
From 2017 to 2018, we reduced our year-over-
year Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based GHG 
emissions by 7 percent due to our continued focus 
on energy efficiency and an increased utilization of 
renewable energy.
We have analyzed and reported our Scope 3 impacts 
using primary operating data, accepted emission 
factors, and an economic input-output model based 
on our third-party spend. In 2018, our Scope 3 GHG 
emissions remained roughly the same as in 2017.
Our analysis shows that our Scope 3 GHG emissions 
impacts are nearly three times greater than our 
combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We are 
working to reduce those impacts through activities  
such as reducing waste in our operations, reducing 
fuel use and looking for opportunities to shift from air 
shipping to ocean transport when practical. We are 
also starting to engage with our strategic suppliers to 
identify ways to reduce GHG emissions in our supply 
chain. These actions not only reduce our environmental 
impact but benefit the business by reducing costs.
For more information, please visit the Climate Change 
& Energy Use  page on our Corporate Responsibility 
website, as well as our CDP Climate Change 
Questionnaire .SCOPE	1	&	MARKET-BASED	 SCOPE	2	ENERGY	 USE	(%	OF	TOTAL) 1
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Natural gas (Scope 1) 60% 60% 61% 59% 62%
Purchased electricity (Scope 2) 2, 3 23% 24% 22% 22% 19%
Fleet fuel (Scope 1) 12% 11% 12% 13% 10%
Renewable energy generated and used onsite or 
purchased 4 0.0% 0.01% 0.3% 1.1% 3.2%
Purchased steam (Scope 2) 3% 3% 2% 3% 3%
Fuel oil (Scope 1) 2% 2% 2% 2% 2%
Bio-fuel (Scope 1) 0.3% 0.3% 0.4% 0.6% 0.6%
Spent solvents (Scope 1) 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0%
Coal (Scope 1) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
1 May not add to 100 percent due to rounding.
2 Reported using Scope 2 market-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
3 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits (RECs) have been sold.
4 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits or guarantees of origin have been 
retained or retired.
ESG Report 2018
37WATER
As we strive to meet the health needs of our patients, 
we are increasingly operating in regions of the world 
where access to clean water and proper sanitation is 
under great pressure. Even in established markets, our 
business faces water-related risks.
Our global water strategy aims to achieve sustainable 
water management within our operations and our 
supply chain, which supports Sustainable Development 
Goal (SDG) 6, “Clean Water and Sanitation.” To achieve 
these strategic objectives, we are focusing on the 
following commitments:
• Ensuring that our wastewater discharges comply 
with local and national standards, as well as internal 
company requirements
• Understanding and controlling our operational 
water footprint
• Managing water risk at our facilities and in our 
supply chain
• Reporting publicly on our water use and goals
GOAL
By 2020, we will develop water conservation 
plans for sites in “high water risk” locations.
2018 PROGRESS
On trackGOAL
By 2025, we will maintain global water use at or 
below 2015 levels.
2018 PROGRESS
3.5 million	cubic	meters	below	2015	levels	
(15 percent reduction)
We use the World Resources Institute’s (WRI’s) 
Aqueduct water-risk-assessment tool to measure and 
map our water risks. Sites are categorized using the 
“Baseline Water Stress” indicator, which is the ratio 
of total annual water withdrawals to total available 
annual renewable supply, and accounts for upstream 
consumptive use. Higher stress values indicate more 
competition among water users.In 2018, we operated 11 manufacturing and/or research 
facilities in areas with “extremely high” Baseline Water 
Stress, according to the WRI’s Aqueduct tool. Our 
manufacturing facilities that use the most water are 
located in areas of “medium to high” or “high” Baseline 
Water Stress and are located in the U.S.
We are assessing our facilities located in areas of 
“extremely high” and “high” Baseline Water Stress to 
determine if more extensive water management plans 
are needed. We are also working to identify “hot spots” 
of water use within our supply chain so that we can 
engage with our suppliers on the issue of water risk.
For more information, please visit the Water  and 
Sourcing & Supplier Relations  pages on our Corporate 
Responsibility website, or review our disclosures to the 
CDP Water Questionnaire .
GRI 303-1 Water withdrawals by source
GRI	303-2	 Water	sources	affected	by	withdrawals
WATER	 USE	BY	SOURCE	 (MILLION	 M3)1
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Pumped water (surface water and groundwater) 18.9 16.2 13.6 13.0 12.8
Purchased water 7.9 7.8 7.1 6.6 7.7
Total 26.9 24.0 20.7 19.6 20.5
1 In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, prior-year data have been adjusted to add or remove facilities that have been 
acquired and sold. Adjustments also reflect changes in methodology to ensure consistency from year to year.
ESG Report 2018
38GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused
Our sites employ a variety of technologies and 
techniques aimed at reducing our water footprint and 
improving operational performance. Closed-loop cooling 
systems, which reduce freshwater use, are employed 
at more than half of our facilities worldwide. Reverse 
osmosis (RO) “reject water” is reused for non-potable 
and non-process applications such as cooling-tower feed 
water and fire water. In all, more than one million cubic 
meters of water are recovered, reused or recycled at our 
facilities, which is equivalent to six percent of the total 
water that is withdrawn.
Our water-use-reduction initiatives include:
• Consideration of water use in process design
• Cooling-system optimization
• Prompt repairs and maintenance of steam-
distribution systems and traps
• Recovery and reuse of steam condensate and 
“reject water”
• Process-water purification system optimization
• Avoiding the use of water in mechanical seals, such  
as those in pumps
For more information, please visit the Water  page on 
our Corporate Responsibility website.
EMISSIONS
Scientific data support that climate change is occurring, 
and we are taking action to reduce the economic and 
public health risks associated with a changing climate.GHG	EMISSIONS
 
 
 
 
SCOPE 1 
783,500 M T CO2e
SCOPE 2
389,700 M T CO2e
SCOPE 3 
6,231,700 M T CO2e
NOTE: Scope 2 is the market-based value in 
accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
As a global biopharmaceutical company, we recognize 
the important role we play in identifying, adapting and 
responding to the public health risks associated with 
climate change, such as threats to clean air and water, 
insufficient food supplies, and the spread of disease. 
We believe our longstanding support of stronger health 
systems in underserved areas is even more important 
given the evidence that certain disease patterns are 
associated with changing climate conditions.
We report our GHG emissions as required by regulations 
in certain countries and annually through CDP (formerly 
Carbon Disclosure Project). In 2018, for the second 
year in a row, the CDP graded our disclosure with 
an A- “leadership” rating, indicating that we have “implemented a range of actions to manage climate 
change, both in our own operations and beyond.”
GOAL
By 2025, we will reduce global Scope 1 and 
market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions by at 
least 40 percent from 2015 levels.
2018 PROGRESS
19.6 percent reduction
This goal is designed to meet the science-based criteria  
to limit the global temperature increase to below 2°C. 
We have submitted our goal to be evaluated by the 
Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi), and joined  
We Mean Business  to emphasize our commitment.
We realize that in order to make a truly meaningful 
reduction in our overall environmental impact, we must 
engage with our suppliers to drive positive change.  
We have set a goal that includes a three-phase process:
• Throughout 2018, we collected GHG emissions data 
from 93 percent of our strategic suppliers with the 
highest environmental impacts to help us better 
understand the GHG emissions associated with our 
supply chain.
• By 2020, we will engage with those suppliers and 
request them to identify GHG emission reduction 
opportunities.
• By 2025, at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers 
with the highest environmental impacts will set their 
own GHG emission reduction targets.
For more information on our initiatives, policies and 
accomplishments, please visit the Climate Change & 
Energy Use  and Sourcing & Supplier Relations  pages 
on our Corporate Responsibility website.
ESG Report 2018
39GRI	305-1	 	 Direct	GHG	emissions	 (Scope 1)
GRI 305-2  Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2)
GHG	SUMMARY 1	(MT	CO2e)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 1,532,400 1,416,400 1,363,300 1,254,700 1,208,100
Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 1,532,400 1,458,500 1,400,000 1,267,000 1,173,200
Scope 3 5,760,000 5,586,300 7,975,100 6,586,100 6,231,700
1 In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, prior-year data have been adjusted to add or remove facilities that have been 
acquired or sold. Adjustments also reflect changes in methodology to ensure consistency from year to year.
ESG Report 2018
40GRI 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3)
SCOPE	3	GREENHOUSE 	GAS	(GHG)	DETAILS 	(MT	CO2e)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Purchased goods and services14,437,700 3,864,900 6,204,000 4,997,600 4,615,400
Capital goods1, 2NA 112,700 224,000 192,900 229,200
GHG emissions from fuel and energy-related activities not included in Scopes 1 & 23, 4309,500 276,200 304,500 262,100 243,400
Upstream transportation and distribution1 258,000 222,200 255,500 267,100 271,600
Waste generated in operations (excluding recycled & composted waste)5, 623,500 20,600 16,800 16,000 18,200
GHG emissions related to employee business travel7, 8182,600 283,300 265,400 218,200 301,100
Employee commuting 320,700 302,400 301,500 262,200 239,000
Downstream transportation and distribution9NA 211,000 118,000 121,900 120,800
GHG emissions from use of sold products10228,000 255,000 248,400 205,800 148,100
End-of-life treatment of sold products11NA 38,000 37,000 42,200 44,900
Total 5,760,000 5,586,300 7,975,100 6,586,100 6,231,700
Note: Limited Data Assurance was granted for emissions calculated from primary travel vendor data and employee reimbursable travel mileage data. The total reported here includes non-primary 
travel vendor data emissions which were based on our 2018 third-party spend data and an economic input-output model performed by Climate Earth, Inc.
NA: Not Available.
 1 Based on third-party spend data and an economic input-output model performed by Climate Earth, Inc.
 2 Data not available before 2015.
 3 Emission factors from Argonne National Laboratory’s GREET Model (https://greet.es.anl.gov/) were used in conjunction with primary fuel and energy-use data.
 4 Data as reported historically, not baseline adjusted.
 5 Primary-waste data were used with the U.S. EPA’s WARM Model (https://www.epa.gov/warm).
 6 Including recycled and composted waste in these calculations would result in negative emissions in 2014 (-39,900 MT CO2e), 2015 (-40,200 MT CO2e), 2016 (-60,200 MT CO2e),  
2017 (-41,200 MT CO2e) and 2018 (-43,700 MT CO2e).
 7 Based on primary travel vendor data, employee-reimbursable mileage and UK Defra factors (https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/government-conversion-factors-for-company-
reporting#conversion-factors-2015).
 8 Beginning in 2014, emissions are based on primary vendor data, where available, and economic input-output modelling performed by Climate Earth, Inc., using spend data.
 9 Emissions were calculated using our “Upstream transportation and distribution” spend data as a worst-case estimate entered into the WRI Quantis tool. We assumed that all “downstream” material 
would first have been stored, transported and handled “upstream.”
 10 Assumes that all HFC-containing devices shipped for sale were consumed. The amount and identity of HFC in each product is calculated and multiplied by the appropriate global warming potential 
(GWP) to determine the CO2e released as a result of product use.
 11 Calculated assuming that all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging purchased was disposed of by our customers. Packaging material data was used with the U.S. EPA’s WARM Model.
ESG Report 2018
41GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
From 2017 to 2018, we reduced our year-over-
year Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based GHG 
emissions by 7 percent due to our continued focus 
on energy efficiency and an increased utilization of 
renewable energy.
We have analyzed and reported our Scope 3 impacts 
using primary operating data, accepted emission 
factors, and an economic input-output model based 
on our third-party spend. In 2018, our Scope 3 GHG 
emissions remained roughly the same as in 2017.
Our analysis shows that our Scope 3 GHG emissions 
impacts are nearly three times greater than our 
combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We are 
working to reduce those impacts through activities 
such as reducing waste in our operations, reducing 
fuel use and looking for opportunities to shift from air 
shipping to ocean transport when practical. We are 
also starting to engage with our strategic suppliers to 
identify ways to reduce GHG emissions in our supply 
chain. These actions not only reduce our environmental 
impact but benefit the business by reducing costs.GRI 305-4  GHG emissions intensity
GHG	INTENSITY
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Scope 1 + 2 GHG Emissions (MT CO 2e) 1,532,400 1,416,400 1,400,000 1,267,000 1,173,200
Revenue (in millions) $42,200 $39,498 $39,807 $40,122 $42,294
GHG Intensity (MT CO 2e/revenue) 0.0000363 0.0000358 0.0000352 0.0000316 0.0000277
Note: Scope 2 is the market-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Additionally, the intensity figures have 
been adjusted to add or remove facilities that have been acquired or sold. Adjustments also reflect changes in methodology to 
ensure consistency from year to year.
For more information, please see our response to the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire .
ESG Report 2018
42GRI 305-6   Ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
GRI	305-7	 	 NOx,	SOx	and	other	emissions
AIR	POLLUTANT 	EMISSIONS 	BY	TYPE	(MT) 1
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 515 494 454 480 494
Sulfur oxides (SOx) 49 48 37 37 30
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 512 455 440 380 404
Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 1.5 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.3
Note: Previously reported data have been restated per our methodology, which includes adding facilities that have been acquired 
and removing facilities that have been sold as operating sites.
1 Data are estimated using conservative assumptions and factors, not measured or weighed.
Our NOx emissions increased slightly from 2017 to 2018 
due to the need to burn more fuel during the cold winter 
months and the use of emergency generators at our 
Puerto Rico facility during an extended power outage 
caused by Hurricane Maria.
Even though our use of solvents  in manufacturing 
operations has declined over time, our VOC emissions 
increased from 2017 to 2018 due to the adoption of 
more accurate emission-tracking methods.
The decrease in SOx emissions from 2017 to 2018 can be 
attributed to the use of fuel with a lower sulfur content 
and our energy-conservation programs.Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) are 
the result of non-routine releases from temperature-
control and fire-suppression systems and can vary from 
year to year.
For more information, please visit the Air Emissions  
page on our Corporate Responsibility website.
ESG Report 2018
43GRI 306-1 Water discharge
WATER	DISCHARGE
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Total water discharge (megaliters/year) 22,775 19,312 16,939 16,642 18,126
Our reported water discharge includes the amount 
that is measured and monitored (i.e., all of our global 
manufacturing and research sites, plus our large office 
buildings): 17,594 megaliters; and the estimated amount 
discharged from our small offices and leased facilities, 
which is calculated based on employee headcount data 
and applying standard assumptions for water use and 
discharge: 532 megaliters.Discharge totals in 2017 may have been impacted by 
interruptions to our operations that occurred due to a 
cyber event. The difference attributable to this event 
has not been determined. We expect that our water 
discharge will increase due to growth in our internal 
manufacturing network in the coming years.
For more information, please see our response to the 
CDP Water Questionnaire .EFFLUENTS	&	WASTE
To minimize our environmental footprint, we look for 
opportunities to avoid the use of hazardous materials, 
to reuse or recycle materials, and to prevent the 
generation of waste. When prevention, reuse and 
recycling are not practical, we apply controls and 
treatment technologies to prevent human health 
impacts and minimize environmental impacts. The 
amount of waste we generate reflects the efficiency of 
our manufacturing processes.
We continuously strive to reduce the amount of 
operational waste we generate and to maximize the 
use of environmentally beneficial disposal methods like 
recycling, composting and waste-to-energy.
GOAL
By 2025, no more than 20 percent of our global 
operational waste will be sent to landfills and 
incinerators.
2018 PROGRESS
33 percent to landfills and incinerators 
GOAL
By 2025, at least 50 percent of sites will send 
zero waste to landfill.
2018 PROGRESS
38 percent of sites
ESG Report 2018
44GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method
SASB	250a.4	Amount	of	product	accepted	for	takeback,	reuse,	or	disposal
GLOBAL 	OPERATIONAL 	WASTE
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Landfill 10% 15% 10% 10% 9%
Incineration (without energy recovery) 14% 13% 20% 19% 24%
TOTAL 24% 28% 30% 29% 33%
HAZARDOUS 	WASTE	(MT)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Incinerated (without heat recovery) 9,724 7,928 13,186 13,462 17,639
Landfilled 1,628 1,652 1,492 745 731
Recycled 12,196 5,944 6,135 7,979 6,827
Energy recovery 15,773 11,089 9,871 9,538 10,300
Reused 2,408 1,428 2,132 1,505 695
Composted 4 5 5 0 0
Other 2,387 2,299 2,425 2,423 2,221
TOTAL 44,120 30,345 35,246 35,652 38,413
ESG Report 2018
45NON-HAZARDOUS 	WASTE	(MT)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Incinerated (without heat recovery) 788 1,243 1,361 426 374
Landfilled 6,349 8,459 5,826 6,633 5,684
Recycled 16,952 15,811 14,636 15,188 12,975
Energy recovery 10,405 9,706 10,342 8,576 9,273
Reused 782 970 972 1,071 2,204
Composted 4,094 3,018 3,771 4,668 4,798
Other 242 304 445 212 209
TOTAL 39,612 39,511 37,353 36,774 35,517
HAZARDOUS 	+	NON-HAZARDOUS 	WASTE	(MT)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Landfill + incineration 18,489 19,282 21,865 21,265 24,428
Landfill 7,977 10,111 7,318 7,378 6,415
Incineration 10,512 9,171 14,547 13,887 18,013
Recycled, energy recovery, reused or composted 62,614 47,971 47,864 48,525 47,072
Other 2,629 2,603 2,870 2,635 2,430
TOTAL 83,732 69,856 72,599 72,426 73,930The amount of hazardous waste sent offsite for 
incineration rose from 2017 to 2018, mainly due to an 
increase in production at one of our manufacturing sites. 
The percentage of operational waste sent to landfill 
and incinerators increased from 29 percent in 2017 to 
33 percent in 2018. This was mainly due to an increase 
in production volumes at one of our manufacturing 
facilities that sends waste offsite for incineration.
For more information, please visit the 
Waste Management  page on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.
GRI	306-3	 Significant	spills
A “significant environmental event” is defined as an 
environmental release that results in environmental 
harm to humans, aquatic organisms or wildlife, or any 
environmental release that requires reporting to the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
We experienced no significant environmental events 
in 2018.
ESG Report 2018
46ENVIRONMENTAL 	COMPLIANCE
Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) 
Management System is based on the “Plan, Do, Check, 
Act” model, which allows us to assess and continually 
improve our practices over time.
The model is implemented globally through a set 
of interwoven business processes that span the 
corporation:
• Our planning process includes developing goals, 
objectives and metrics based on a review of our 
company’s performance, EHS programs, applicable 
regulations and external factors that may impact our 
business [PLAN]
• Activities are performed by using standards, 
guidelines and tools that are integrated into 
the EHS Management System and include 
specific expectations for sites and operating 
organizations [DO]
• Governance committees, from the executive-
level EHS Council through site-based compliance 
committees, review business unit performance 
and progress against objectives throughout the 
year [CHECK]
• Corrective actions and continuous-improvement 
initiatives are established to resolve EHS concerns 
that have surfaced during periodic assessments, 
audits and routine surveillance of the regulatory 
landscape [ACT]
Our corporate EHS management system is generally 
aligned with the requirements of the International 
Standards Organization (ISO), but we do not pursue 
certification under the Environmental (ISO 14001) or 
Safety (ISO 45001) frameworks at the global level. 
Some of our facilities have individually achieved ISO 
14001 certification to meet customer requirements.EHS governance
Our commitment to the environment and employee 
health and safety begins with the company’s Executive 
Committee, which has established the corporate 
Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) Council. The 
EHS Council is composed of senior-level executives 
representing all business units, and is responsible for 
overall EHS governance, as well as for leading and 
driving enterprise-wide excellence in EHS management 
and performance.
The vice president (VP) of global safety and the 
environment (GSE) is responsible for communicating to 
the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee and 
the EHS Council regarding progress on goals, objectives and metrics, as well as other material issues. The VP of 
GSE partners with business leaders to establish long- 
and short-term goals and performance metrics to drive 
EHS excellence.
Safety and environmental performance targets are 
included in divisional management objectives. In 
addition, all employees are eligible for special recognition 
for innovative ideas and projects related to improving 
EHS aspects of our operations.
For more information on our initiatives, policies and 
accomplishments, please visit the EHS Management 
& Compliance  page on our Corporate Responsibility 
website, or our 2018 Form 10-K (pages 107–108).
GRI	307-1	 Non-compliance	with	environmental	laws	and	regulations
NOTICES 	OF	VIOLATIONS 	(NOVs)	&	CITATIONS
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Environmental 17 16 12 5 6
Safety 11 2 2 3 1
FINES
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Environmental fines paid $81,600 $92,270 $33,906 $0 $0
Number of environmental fines 4 6 2 0 0
Safety fines paid $1,000 $0 $0 $0 $0
Number of safety fines 1 0 0 0 0
For more information, please see our 2018 Form 10-K (pages 107–108).
ESG Report 2018
47SUPPLIER 	ENVIRONMENTAL 	
ASSESSMENT
GRI	308-1	 New	suppliers	screened	using	
environmental criteria
Prospective external manufacturers of active 
pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products are 
screened for environmental, health and safety (EHS) 
compliance, in addition to quality, and supply and 
technical competence requirements. The EHS screening 
includes a survey covering such topics as regulatory 
compliance, fatalities and major incidents.
Based on the screening results and activities undertaken 
by the supplier, certain external manufacturers are 
subject to a more detailed onsite assessment conducted 
by a multidisciplinary team, which may include our 
company’s Quality, Environmental, Health & Safety, 
Global Technical Operations and Global Sourcing & 
Procurement representatives.The external manufacturers we contract with are 
periodically reassessed using a risk-based approach; 
higher-risk external manufacturers are subject to 
more frequent onsite assessments. We expect that 
observations made during the audit process will 
be remediated by our external manufacturers, and 
we monitor and track corrective actions through 
completion.
We continue to support the Pharmaceutical Industry 
Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Managemen t 
(the Principles) . The Principles outline industry 
expectations for external manufacturers and licensees 
with regard to labor, health, safety, environment, ethics 
and management systems. The external manufacturers 
with which we contract are expected to understand and 
align with the Principles.
For more information, please visit the Sourcing & Supplier 
Relations  page on our Corporate Responsibility website.
EXTERNAL 	MANUFACTURING 	EHS	ASSESSMENTS
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Prospective external manufacturers 48 50 34 37 65
Current external manufacturers 68 69 85 53 61
TOTAL 116 119 119 90 126
ESG Report 2018
48SOCIAL
EMPLOYMENT
We recognize that our ability to excel depends on the 
integrity, knowledge, imagination, skill, diversity and 
teamwork of our employees.
A positive, inclusive and high-performing work 
environment is essential for employees to feel 
welcomed and valued, and to fully achieve their business 
objectives.
Harnessing the knowledge and insights of a globally 
diverse workforce requires leadership, a corporate 
culture of respect and full engagement, and a thoughtful 
and strategic approach to workplace inclusion and 
employee development and well-being —  physical, 
emotional, social and financial.
We are:
• Committed to fostering development and 
rewarding talent
• Dedicated to diversity and inclusion at every level of 
the organization
• Adept at recognizing unique skill sets and nurturing 
employees’ talentsOnly when our employees feel their best, in all aspects 
of their lives, can they perform at their highest level. 
We believe that well-being is a holistic approach that 
includes physical, emotional and financial well-being, as 
well as safety to employees and their family members at 
all life stages. We are working hard to advance a culture 
of well-being to make the healthy choice the easy choice 
and the valued choice within our organization.
We are actively collaborating in and integrating 
programs and policies to improve employee health and 
safety, reduce injury and illness and improve workforce 
productivity. These goals include increasing physical 
movement/activity, expanding access to healthier 
foods, enhancing policies to eliminate tobacco within 
our campuses, providing education and tools to help 
mitigate the effects of stress, and collaborating with our 
Environmental, Health & Safety teams to build a culture 
of health in addition to our long-standing commitment 
to a culture of safety.
In addition, we foster an environment where 
employees feel safe to speak up. If an employee sees 
or suspects improper, unethical or illegal activity, 
they are encouraged to talk to their manager, another 
company resource (e.g., Compliance, Legal or Human 
Resources) or, where permitted by law, “Speak Up” at 
msdethics.com  to address their questions or concerns 
confidentially without fear of retaliation.
For more information on our initiatives, policies and 
accomplishments, please visit the Employees , Employee 
Well-Being , Compliance , Engaging Our Employees , 
Global Diversity & Inclusion , Human Rights , and 
Learning & Development  pages on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.GRI	401-1	 New	employee	hires	and	turnover
SASB	330a.1	 Talent	recruitment	and	retention	
efforts	for	R&D	personnel
SASB	330a.2	 (1)	Voluntary	and	(2)	involuntary	
turnover	rate	for:	(a)	executives	
and senior managers, (b) midlevel 
managers,	(c) professionals,	and	
(d) all others
The talent of our scientists, combined with scientific 
and technological advances that enable the rapid 
invention of expanding classes of therapeutics and 
higher resolution translational medicine studies, are 
transforming the way we conduct research.
We have strategically located discovery centers in 
regions with active biomedical research communities 
including South San Francisco, California, Boston and 
Cambridge, Massachusetts and London, UK. These 
centers allow us to recruit talented local scientists and 
facilitate collaboration with local academic institutions 
and companies. These discovery sites complement and 
connect with our strong research and development 
capabilities and expertise based at our New Jersey and 
Pennsylvania sites.
For more information on our R&D talent efforts, please 
visit the MRL Postdoctoral Research Fellow Program 
page on our corporate website.
ESG Report 2018
49TURNOVER
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Overall turnover rate 1, 2 18.8% 14.8% 11.1% 10.7% 11.8%
Voluntary turnover rate 8.0% 7.4% 6.3% 6.5% 6.8%
Avoidable voluntary turnover rate 6.2% 6.0% 4.8% 5.0% 5.2%
Involuntary termination rate 10.8% 7.4% 4.9% 4.2% 5.0%
1 Includes all types of turnover, including restructuring.
2 2014 turnover rates are restated by incorporating the retroactive transactions.
2018	TURNOVER 	BY	GENDER 	&	REGION
Female Male
Overall 49% 51%
Asia Pacific 51% 49%
EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa) 54% 46%
Latin America 47% 53%
EUCAN (Europe and Canada) 53% 47%
Japan 12% 88%
U.S. 54% 46%
2018	TURNOVER 	BY	REGION
Asia Pacific Latin America EEMEA Japan EUCAN U.S.
Overall turnover rate 1 21.65% 10.91% 13.30% 13.76% 7.20% 10.35%
Voluntary turnover rate 16.38% 4.22% 10.22% 1.47% 4.56% 4.76%
Avoidable voluntary turnover rate 15.05% 2.86% 8.75% 1.22% 2.57% 3.06%
Involuntary termination rate 5.28% 6.69% 3.08% 12.29% 2.64% 5.58%
1 Includes all types of turnover, including restructuring.
ESG Report 2018
50EMPLOYEE 	HIRES	BY	REGION
2015 2016 2017 2018
ASIA PACIFIC
Number of hires 2,104 1,732 1,909 3,071
Hire rate 1 17.70% 14.79% 16.14% 24.38%
EEMEA (EASTERN EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA)
Number of hires 384 382 378 505
Hire rate 1 12.84% 13.49% 13.69% 16.67%
LATIN AMERICA
Number of hires 509 380 1,246 714
Hire rate 1 9.80% 8.01% 23.82% 13.13%
EUCAN (EUROPE AND CANADA)
Number of hires 1,427 1,636 1,865 2,495
Hire rate 1 7.81% 8.90% 9.80% 12.34%
JAPAN
Number of hires 101 196 109 153
Hire rate 1 2.66% 5.04% 2.80% 4.32%
U.S.
Number of hires 1,909 1,937 2,173 3,019
Hire rate 1 8.28% 8.33% 9.12% 12.41%
1 Percentage of new hires in the total onboard head count; regular employees only.
ESG Report 2018
51GRI	401-2	 Benefits	provided	to	full-time	
employees
We recognize that our employees are critical to our 
mission to save and improve lives. One way in which we 
do this is to provide a valuable suite of compensation and 
benefit programs, as well as resources to support our 
employees’ professional achievements. Together, we call 
these “Total Rewards.”
Total Rewards include compensation and financial 
rewards , health and insurance benefits , opportunities 
for employees to develop their skills and grow their 
careers  and programs that help meet the demands 
of managing employees’ professional and personal 
well-being . Our philosophy behind these programs is 
rooted in maintaining our competitive position in the 
market while providing a comprehensive and valuable 
package of rewards to attract and retain a talented and 
diverse workforce.
In the U.S., we generally offer health, life, disability and 
business travel insurance as well as retirement income 
benefits to all employees, including those who work 
part-time. Employees also can opt to contribute to 
tax-free Flexible Spending Accounts for reimbursement 
of certain health spending and/or dependent care costs.myTotalRewards is an online personalized 
resource that provides U.S. employees 
with a simple, consolidated view of their 
total compensation and financial rewards 
at our company. For most active employees 
(certain groups are excluded, such as those 
that are subject to collective bargaining), 
myTotalRewards contains the following detailed 
information:
MONEY
Annual pay, cash incentives and our company’s 
estimated contribution to pension, 401(k), 
insurance and other benefits
HEALTH 	BENEFITS
The value of the key health benefits in which an 
employee participates, including medical, dental 
and vision coverage
RETIREMENT 	&	LONG-TERM 	INCENTIVES
Retirement benefits and long-term 
incentives —  and how they’ve performed 
over time
OTHER	REWARDS
Other benefits available, such as educational 
assistance, K–12 educational guidance and 
financial planning
ESG Report 2018
52Outside the U.S., while benefits may vary by region and 
country, we offer health, life and injury, disability and 
business travel insurance, along with retirement income 
benefits. In addition, in many countries, where legally 
permitted, including the U.S., we extend health care 
and various insurance benefits to employees’ domestic 
partners and their partners’ eligible dependent children.
Other programs to support well-being (U.S.)
Our company offers many programs to help 
make it easier for employees to balance their 
various responsibilities. The following is a 
non-exhaustive sampling:
• Transportation services
• Backup dependent care
• Child-care support
• K–12 educational guidance
• Special-needs counseling
• Adoption assistance
For U.S.-based employees who are subject to a 
collective bargaining agreement, work-life benefits 
may be offered in accordance with the agreement. 
For employees based outside the U.S., the work-life 
benefits offered differ by location and may be subject 
to a collective bargaining agreement or local legal 
requirements.Emotional	and	Social	Well-Being
We have developed comprehensive, innovative 
emotional and social support programs that meet 
the needs of our talent and appeal to employees at all 
stages of life. We offer an environment intended to 
support employee engagement and team cohesiveness, 
which leads to reduced absenteeism and increased 
productivity.
We take a balanced approach to improve employees’ 
emotional and mental health. To raise awareness 
of mental health and our company’s resources and 
reduce the stigma often associated with it, we began 
offering Mental Health First Aid training in 2018 to our 
employees. Once trained, employees become Mind 
Well Champions whose mission is to create an inclusive 
and supportive work environment that values overall 
employee health, focusing on emotional well-being and 
mental health.
Global flexible work arrangements
We believe flexible work arrangements offer a different  
way of working and have the potential to enhance 
employees’ commitment to the company, increase 
productivity and make employee teams more 
competitive. The company has had a flexible work 
arrangement policy globally since 2008.
Employees and managers work together to assess 
the opportunities and challenges of a proposed 
arrangement. While the overall process should be 
collaborative, managers are accountable for making 
the final decision in light of business requirements, 
recognizing that some positions may not lend 
themselves to a flexible work arrangement.
For more information, please visit the Employee Well-
Being  and Emotional & Social Well-Being  pages on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.GRI 401-3 Parental leave
We provide employees up to six weeks of paid parental 
time off for the birth, adoption or foster placement of a 
child. Paid parental time off is available to both birth and 
non-birth parents.
In addition to parental leave, employees receive 
separate, unpaid, job-protected leave to care for a 
newborn child, adopted child or child placed in  
foster care within six months (182 days) following the 
child’s birth, adoption or foster-care placement.
ESG Report 2018
53OCCUPATIONAL	HEALTH	&	SAFETY
(CR material topic: Occupational health and safety)
MANAGEMENT 	APPROACH
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy 
workplace for our employees and contractors, and 
to complying with all applicable safety laws and 
regulations. In addition, we aim for Environmental, 
Health & Safety (EHS) performance that is among the 
best in the pharmaceutical industry.
We seek to eliminate work-related injuries, illnesses 
and unplanned events from our operations through 
comprehensive safety programs that are part of our 
EHS management system . We also work to minimize 
the frequency and severity of safety and environmental 
incidents by focusing on proper facility design, process 
controls, operation and maintenance procedures, 
protection systems and emergency response 
capabilities.
Our global safety program is designed to drive 
a proactive safety culture and reinforce the link 
between our leadership behaviors and our safety and 
environmental objectives. We believe that through 
visible management, leadership and employee 
engagement, we can increase the awareness of hazards 
and help employees make the right choices when it 
comes to safety, health and the environment — both on 
and off the job.We address the following areas in our approach to 
employee and contractor safety:
• Process safety
• Non-routine hazardous work
• Industrial hygiene
• Biological safety
• Motor-vehicle safety
• Ergonomics
• Emergency preparedness and response
• Loss prevention
• Capital projects construction safety
• Safety for non-company personnel
For consistency across the company, and to enable 
us to compare our injury rates with those of other 
multinational companies, we use the U.S.-based 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 
record-keeping criteria for recording and tracking work-
related injuries and illnesses. We require all injuries, 
illnesses and incidents involving our employees to be 
reported and investigated to determine their cause. We 
also require that actions be taken to prevent recurrence.
Our injury and illness data are consolidated into a 
central system, enabling us to analyze trends and focus 
our efforts to continually improve. We communicate 
significant incidents, near-miss events and workplace 
conditions that could represent risks to our operations 
and sites around the world. We also proactively 
share corrective and preventive actions across our 
operating locations to allow all sites to learn from the 
improvements we make.
For more information on our initiatives, policies and 
accomplishments, please visit the Employee Safety  and 
Environmental Health & Safety  pages on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.-23%
In 2018, our lost-time injury 
rate declined 23 percent 
f rom  201 7.
ESG Report 2018
54GLOBAL 	SAFETY 	PERFORMANCE
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
WORKPLACE SAFETY
Recordable Injury Rate (RIR) 0.58 0.48 0.35 0.33 0.30
RIR percentage change -6% -17% -27% -6% -9%
Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.20 0.22 0.13 0.13 0.10
Fatalities 1 1 1 0 0 2
MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY
Collisions per million miles (CPMM) 2 13.40 12.41 9.48 7.29 6.93
CAPITAL PROJECTS CONSTRUCTION SAFETY 3, 4
RIR 0.96 0.87 0.53 0.59 0.73
DART 5 0.44 0.38 0.26 0.32 0.28
Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0
FACILITY MANAGEMENT CONTRACTOR SAFETY 6
RIR NA NA NA NA 0.71
LTIR NA NA NA NA 0.47
Fatalities NA NA NA NA 0
Note: Injury rates are subject to change over time, as new cases are added, and case classifications change in accordance with our 
own requirements and applicable regulatory requirements.
NA: Not Available.
1 All fatalities were transportation-related, except for one high-risk work fatality in 2018.
2  CPMM: Reflects both personal and business use of company-owned or -leased vehicles.
3  LTIR/RIR: Calculated per OSHA methodology.
4 Primarily reflects capital projects over $100,000 managed by our global engineering group.
5 DART: days away, reassigned or transferred calculated per OSHA 300 methodology.
6 Injury rates for IFM Partners; reporting initiated in 2018.GRI 403-2 Rates of injury, occupational 
disease, lost days, absenteeism, 
and work-related fatalities
We have worked steadily to drive down our workplace 
injury rates.
In 2018, our lost-time injury rate was 0.10, a 23 percent 
reduction from 2017. Our recordable injury rate was 
0.30, down 9 percent from the prior year. This is the 
seventh consecutive year of global injury reduction and 
our second consecutive year in the first quartile when 
compared against our pharmaceutical industry peers.
We regret to report that we lost two of our employees 
in 2018. One was fatally injured while performing work 
on a chiller unit at one of our locations in Japan. Another 
employee perished in a motor vehicle incident in China.
For more information, please visit the Employee Safety  
page on our Corporate Responsibility website.
ESG Report 2018
552018	LOST-TIME	 INJURIES	 BY	BUSINESS	 AREA	
(TOTAL: 	77)CASES	BY	BUSINESS 	AREA	(#)
Lost-Time Cases Recordable Cases
Facility Management 2 12
Global Human Health (GHH) 31 73
Global Support Functions (Legal, HR, IT, S&E, et al.) 5 11
Animal Health 1 8
Manufacturing (MMD) 29 92
Research (MRL) 9 32
TOTAL 77 228RECORDABLE 	INJURIES 	BY	CAUSAL 	FACTORS 	(2018)
Sales & Marketing 40.3%
Manufacturing 37.7%
Research 11.7%
Global Support Functions 6.5%
Facilities Management 2.6%
Animal Health 1.3%Slips-Trips-Falls 32.5%
Struck-Caught 21.5%
Ergonomic 16.7%
Motor Vehicle 12.7%
Non-Ergonomic 4.8%
Other 3.9%
Chemical Exposure 3.5%
Phys/Env Exposure 2.6%
Biological Exposure 1.8%
ESG Report 2018
56GRI 403-3 Workers with high risk of diseases 
related to their occupation
Industrial Hygiene
Our Industrial Hygiene program protects employee 
health throughout all stages of research and 
manufacturing by identifying chemical, physical and 
biological hazards, assessing exposures and properly 
controlling risks using the hierarchy of controls starting 
with prevention, then substitution, engineering 
controls, administrative controls and personal 
protective equipment.
For new processes and facilities, we design for safety by 
eliminating risks, substituting less hazardous processes 
or materials and installing effective engineering 
and operational controls. We also confirm the initial 
and ongoing effectiveness of these controls after 
installation through a robust monitoring program.
For existing processes, we first seek to eliminate or find 
a substitute for a hazardous material or process. When 
it is not possible to do so, we evaluate the feasibility 
of engineering controls based on the hazard and 
risk. Where engineering controls are not feasible, we 
establish effective work practice controls and require 
the use of appropriate personal protective equipment.Biological	Safety
Our Biological Safety Organization works to protect our 
employees, customers, and neighboring communities 
by systematically identifying, assessing, and controlling 
biological risks associated with the research, 
development, and manufacture of our vaccines and 
therapeutic proteins.
Our biological risk management program drives safety 
by setting industry-leading performance expectations 
for governance, controls, strategy, planning, 
management, reporting, policies, processes and 
corporate culture.
Our company’s commitment to protect human health 
and the environment extends to every aspect of our 
biological safety program, including:
• Biosafety (preventing accidental biological release)
• Biosecurity (preventing intentional biological release)
• Bioethics (promoting responsible use of biological 
materials and technologies)
• Sustainability (reducing our environmental footprint)
• Product stewardship (reducing environmental hazards)
As a global organization, our company has numerous 
operating divisions and work assignments — each with 
its own requirements. Particular work assignments may 
involve potential exposure to one or more occupational 
hazards, such as noise, mixtures of chemicals, or 
hazardous biological compounds. Our company 
maintains a concerted effort to assess and control 
workplace hazards (chemical, biological and physical) 
and to make sure that each employee’s work assignment 
is safe and consistent with his or her evaluated 
capabilities.
For more information, please visit the Employee Safety  
page on our Corporate Responsibility website.TRAINING 	&	EDUCATION
To support our global employee base, we build 
workforce capability to accelerate talent, improve 
performance and mitigate risk through relevant 
continuous learning experiences. This includes, but is 
not limited to, building leadership and management 
skills, as well as providing technical and functional 
training to all employees.
Our current talent management system supports 
companywide performance management, talent 
review, succession planning and associated employee 
performance and development processes for critical 
talent data. It helps ensure that our workforce 
continues to stay aligned with company objectives. The 
system keeps track of employee development plans, 
performance objectives and performance ratings, 
career aspirations, experience, language proficiency, 
certifications and education.
For more information on our initiatives, policies 
and accomplishments, please visit the Learning & 
Development  page on our Corporate Responsibility 
website.
ESG Report 2018
57GRI	404-1	 Average	hours	of	employee	training
TRAINING 	AND	EDUCATION
2016 2017 2018
Total course completions for all employees (in millions) 4.2 5.3 4.4
Hours of training for all employees (in millions) 1 2.1 2.6 2.2
Course completions per employee 60 48 43
1 Based on average of 30 minutes per course.
GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee 
skills and transition assistance 
programs
Our Leadership Development Center is a website that 
features videos, articles, program announcements 
and resources for leaders and managers. Resources 
are aligned to our leadership behaviors, professional 
competencies and functional competencies, and 
are available in the following formats: “on-demand” 
web-based modules, classroom programs, articles, 
books (including audio books), webcasts and 
suggestions for “on-the-job” development activities.
ESG Report 2018
58GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews
PERFORMANCE 	REVIEWS
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Executives 1 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Middle management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Line supervisors 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Non-managers 2 93% 94% 94% 93% 94%
1 “Executives” refers to the first two levels below the chief executive officer.
2 All “non-managers” (previously “individual contributors”) including those who are subject to a collective bargaining agreement (unions).
DIVERSITY 	&	EQUAL	OPPORTUNITY
(CR material topic: Diverse and inclusive workplace)
MANAGEMENT 	APPROACH
From fostering innovation through a culture of inclusion 
that instills a sense of belonging for all, to investing 
in the creation of a gender-balanced and globally 
diverse team of passionate and results-oriented 
leaders, our people represent our greatest asset. They 
operate at the leading edge of science where medical 
breakthroughs have the potential to save and improve 
the lives of millions.
We regard Global Diversity & Inclusion (GD&I) as a 
key business strategy to inspire, develop and unleash 
the potential of our people —  holding ourselves to the 
highest standards of accountability for gender parity 
established by the United Nations —  and knowing 
that progress for women will stall without sustained, 
proactive intervention.Diversity and inclusion are fundamental to how we 
operate, how we engage employees, and how we 
drive competitive advantage to support our mission of 
developing innovative medicines and vaccines to save 
and improve lives.
• We have unparalleled commitment from our CEO 
and senior leaders, we challenge ourselves to 
continuously raise the performance bar for GD&I 
goals, and we approach these goals with a progressive 
growth mindset — always focused on learning and 
improving results.
• We understand that true innovation is achieved 
through the powerful intersection of ideas from 
employees across a range of diverse backgrounds: 
age, race, gender, ethnicity, culture, nationality, sexual 
orientation, gender expression, gender identity, 
religion, faith and veteran and disability status.
• We resolve to achieve gender equality and empower 
all women and girls as evidenced by improvements in 
the representation of women in our workforce, on the 
senior management team, and in management roles.• We are proud of the improvements achieved in 
representation on the senior management team 
of Black/African-American, Hispanic/Latino and 
Pan-Asian employees and have a plan in place — with 
dedicated resources — to address areas within which 
ethnic groups are underrepresented (also known as 
underrepresented ethnic groups or “UEGs”).
• We create enterprisewide engagement for diversity 
and inclusion through more than 14,000 Employee 
Business Resource Group (EBRG) members, 
through educational programs to further the 
career advancement, leadership development and 
managerial skills of employees, and through external 
partnerships that advance talent management goals 
and strengthen our connections to the community.
For more information on our initiatives, policies and 
accomplishments, please visit the Global Diversity & 
Inclusion  page on our Corporate Responsibility website.
ESG Report 2018
59GRI	405-1	 Diversity	of	governance	bodies	and	employees
GENDER 	&	ETHNICITY
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Women in the workforce 48% 48% 48% 48% 49%
Women on the Board 17% 21% 23% 23% 23%
Women in executive roles 1 31% 34% 31% 32% 32%
Women on the senior management team 2 31% 34% 36% 39% 41%
Women in management roles 3 37% 38% 39% 40% 41%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups on the Board 25% 21% 23% 23% 23%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in executive roles (U.S.) 20% 20% 23% 23% 21%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups on the senior management team (U.S.) 15% 18% 18% 17% 19%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in the workforce (U.S.) 24% 26% 26% 26% 27%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in management roles (U.S.) 20% 23% 23% 23% 25%
New hires that were female 49% 50% 51% 49% 51%
New hires that were members of underrepresented ethnic groups (U.S.) 22% 33% 37% 36% 36%
Note: Our company has publicly disclosed EEO-1 information since 1999. Our 2018 data is available on the Global Diversity & Inclusion  page on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.
1 “Executive” is defined as the chief executive officer and two structural levels below.
2 “Senior management team” is defined as the fourth structural level below the CEO.
3 “Management role” is defined as all other managers with direct reports not reflected in notes 1 or 2.
ESG Report 2018
60HUMAN	RIGHTS	ASSESSMENT
GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject 
to human rights reviews
GRI 412-3 Investment agreements and 
contracts that include human 
rights clauses or underwent 
screening
We expect appropriate standards of conduct and 
respect for human rights, consistent with our own, 
from our suppliers, contractors, vendors and external 
partners. We are committed to doing business with 
those that share our commitment to human rights and 
to the principles outlined in our Business Partner Code 
of Conduct .
Our practices are informed and guided by the 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative’s (PSCI’s) 
Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible 
Supply Chain Management , which set the standard for 
ethics, labor, health, safety and the environment for 
our industry.
Within our supply chain, we work to meet our 
responsibility to respect human rights by:
Selection
Selecting suppliers that are socially responsible and 
who share our company’s commitment to ethics and 
integrity. We strive to obtain the goods and services 
we need to further our mission in a way that is lawful, 
efficient and fair.
Expectations
Setting and communicating our expectations of 
suppliers. We use our Business Partner Code of Conduct 
to communicate our expectations for Human Rights, 
Labor & Employment, Health, Safety & Environment 
and Ethical Business Practices. We make it available in 
26 languages.Due	Diligence
Conducting appropriate due diligence and determining 
the risks — including those related to human rights, 
prior to entering a business relationship with a 
supplier —  to determine that they can meet all our 
company’s expectations.
Contracts
Seeking commitment from suppliers to respect and 
abide by the principles set forth in our company’s 
Business Partner Code of Conduct  through our 
contracts and agreements. Our standard contract 
templates contain an ethical business practice 
compliance clause.
Auditing
Performing Labor & Human Rights (LHR) Audits and 
Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) Audits at selected 
supplier facilities to verify their compliance with our 
company’s expectations, and by working with them 
to address identified compliance gaps in a responsible 
manner. In 2018, we performed over 90 LHR Audits.
Managing & Monitoring
Managing and monitoring suppliers to ensure that they 
continue to meet our company’s expectations. We 
hold them accountable for meeting their contractual 
obligations and take appropriate action to address 
those that do not. Termination clauses are included 
in contracts.
Governance
Using our Third-Party Risk Committee to oversee 
the management of risks presented by suppliers. The 
Committee is chaired by our senior vice president 
for Procurement and is composed of management 
representatives from multiple functions, including 
Human Resources, Health & Safety, Corporate 
Responsibility, Procurement and Compliance.Responsible Sourcing
Implementing procedures to ensure responsible 
sourcing of minerals. As stated in our Conflict Minerals 
Policy , we endeavor to avoid the purchase of minerals 
(e.g., tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) that directly 
or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups or 
perpetrators of serious human rights abuses.
Prior to contracting, all new direct suppliers (as well 
as certain new indirect and research suppliers in 
certain geographies) are required to complete and 
return a Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire 
(SAQ) for Ethics & Compliance. Pre-existing external 
manufacturing suppliers and contract manufacturing 
organizations also complete SAQs.
Our SAQ requires suppliers to answer a series of 
labor and human rights questions covering a range of 
subjects, including freely chosen employment, child 
labor, employment practices, employee disclosures, fair 
treatment, wages, benefits and working hours.
Each supplier’s responses are used to judge whether 
or not that supplier has programs and/or procedures 
in place to address potential risks for labor and human 
rights related deficiencies.
Since implementing the Labor and Human Rights 
program in 2015, we have conducted over 200 onsite 
audits in countries identified as high risk for potential 
human rights violations. No critical observations have 
been found. We track audit-related corrective and 
preventative actions to completion.
Additionally, we maintain a “Speak Up” tool ( msdethics.
com ) for any employee, supplier or business partner to 
report concerns, including those related to labor and 
human rights issues.
For more information, please visit the Human Rights  
and Sourcing & Supplier Relations  pages on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.
ESG Report 2018
61SUPPLIER 	SOCIAL	ASSESSMENT
GRI	414-1	 New	suppliers	screened	using	
social criteria
Please see GRI 412-1 and GRI 412-3 on page 61.
PUBLIC	POLICY
GRI 415-1 Political contributions
Where permitted by law in the U.S., Canada, Japan 
and Australia, our company makes corporate political 
contributions.
To view a listing of our corporate and PAC contributions 
made within the U.S. during 2018, please visit the Public 
Policy  page on our Corporate Responsibility website.
CUSTOMER	HEALTH	&	SAFETY
(CR material topic: Product quality and safety)
MANAGEMENT 	APPROACH
Our quality strategy is focused on ensuring reliable, 
compliant supply to our customers, assuring that our 
products are there when people need them, and having 
an engaged and capable workforce to ensure and sustain 
future success.
Patient safety is at the forefront of what we do. We are 
using and exploring new technological advancements 
such as integrated IT tools, artificial intelligence (AI) and 
streamlined digital platforms to further enhance how 
we manufacture high-quality products.
We apply and adhere to a strict set of quality standards, 
and we have policies and procedures in place to identify, 
measure, control and sustain product-quality excellence.Our Global Quality Compliance organization is 
responsible for establishing the requisite standards 
to ensure that all of our company’s products are 
manufactured, tested, released and distributed in full 
compliance with regulatory requirements.
We continuously strive to improve these standards 
in order to enhance procedures and ensure ongoing 
compliance with Current Good Manufacturing 
Practices (CGMPs).
Our company’s medicines and vaccines are widely tested 
before they are approved for marketing. This testing is 
governed by a comprehensive regulatory scheme and 
by our research policies. We assess the safety of our 
products in rigorous nonclinical and clinical trials  prior to 
seeking regulatory approval. Following approval of our 
drugs, vaccines or devices, the company continues to 
monitor their safety profiles.
Our company’s chief medical officer holds overall 
responsibility for the benefit/risk of our pipeline and 
marketed products, provides medical oversight for 
all clinical programs, supervises the development and 
implementation of medical policies (including those 
related to data transparency and the sharing of clinical 
data), and has responsibility for the design, execution 
and implementation of pre-registration expanded 
access (“compassionate use”) programs.
Our company’s Global Clinical Safety and 
Pharmacovigilance (GCSP) function manages a 
global system for the collection, review and reporting 
of adverse experience (AE) reports received by our 
company worldwide, and for the continuous assessment 
of product safety. Our company’s chief safety 
officer holds overall responsibility for the safety of 
our products.
To learn more, please visit the Product & Patient Safety  
and Quality & Safety Standards  pages on our Corporate 
Responsibility website.GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning the health and safety 
impacts of products and services
SASB	210a.1	 Management	process	for	ensuring	
quality and patient safety during 
clinical	trials globally
SASB	210a.2	 FDA	Sponsor	Inspections	related	
to clinical trial management and 
pharmacovigilance that resulted 
in:	(1) Voluntary	Action	Indicated	
(VAI)	and	(2) Official	Action	
Indicated	(OAI)
SASB	250a.1	 Products	listed	in	the	FDA’s	
MedWatch	Safety	Alerts	for	
Human Medical Products database
SASB	250a.2	 Fatalities	associated	with	
products	as	reported	in	the	FDA	
Adverse	Event	Reporting	System
SASB	250a.3	 Recalls	issued,	and	total	units	
recalled
Using the results of our scientific studies, we determine 
hazard ratings  for all of our chemical compounds, and 
default to more conservative exposure limits when 
we have limited health hazard information. We use a 
rigorous and data-driven review process and re-evaluate 
hazard ratings as new data become available.
Our Industrial Hygiene Risk Assessments require 
evaluation of the effectiveness of control measures. 
Risk-based exposure monitoring is also conducted 
to verify the effectiveness of installed engineering 
controls, and improvements are made as needed.
We use conservative safety factors to set low de 
minimis levels for environmental releases until we have 
sufficient data to fully understand their impacts on 
aquatic organisms. Levels are reviewed and updated as 
new data become available.
ESG Report 2018
62QUALITY	 &	PRODUCT	 SAFETY
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Number of product recalls in the United States 1, 2 3 3 1 0 2
Annual percentage of units manufactured/sold and 
recalled during a given year (our global recall rate) 1, 2 0.22% 0.07% 0.01% 0.01% 0.14%
1 Definition of Recall Classifications: http://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm049070.
htm#RecallClassifications.
2 Beginning in 2014, product recalls include data from our Animal Health business.
Please visit the U.S. Food & Drug Administration’s 
(FDA) MedWatch  website for more information 
on product safety alerts. You may visit the FDA’s 
Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS)  website for 
up-to-date information on fatalities associated with 
product use.
Our company has long been committed to sharing the 
results of our clinical trials, regardless of their outcome, 
in a timely manner. If a clinical trial of a marketed 
product is terminated early for safety reasons, we will 
promptly disclose medically important information 
to regulatory authorities and the public, update 
the status on clinicaltrials.gov  within 30 days, and 
submit a manuscript to a journal (or post a summary 
online) within 12 months after the last patient’s last 
visit occurs. If the trial was terminated for efficacy 
reasons, the results will be disclosed within 12 months 
after the last patient’s last visit occurs. Summaries of 
terminated trials will provide information about patient 
disposition, safety and adverse experiences, as well as 
an explanation as to why the trial was terminated early.We comply with all applicable laws and regulations 
associated with the registration of clinical trials in 
publicly accessible registries and subsequent posting 
of the results from these trials. We have put into place 
the processes necessary for compliance with the Food 
and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 
and the European clinical trial Directive 2001/20/EC, 
including those related to clinical trial registration and 
posting results.
For those who analyze, report or publish the results 
of clinical trials, a clinical trial registry also provides 
information on trials in progress and the ability to 
track such trials over the course of development. 
We register clinical trials at trial initiation in patients 
of investigational and marketed products, in which 
treatment is assigned, that we sponsor and conduct on 
www.clinicaltrials.gov , www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu  and 
www.encepp.eu .In accordance with our public policy position statement , 
all investigational studies in human subjects are 
conducted in a manner consistent with laws, regulations 
and guidelines for the protection of human subjects, 
including those issued by the International Council 
for Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP) . 
However, individual country regulations and guidelines 
should remain the primary determinant of specific 
requirements for the conduct of medical research.
We have a commitment, where appropriate, to 
the study of diverse patient populations, including 
minorities, women and children, in our clinical trials in 
all regions of the world. In keeping with the trend in the 
pharmaceutical industry, more than half of the patients 
participating in our clinical trials are enrolled outside the 
U.S., in more than 50 countries.
Clinical trial site monitoring, design, conduct 
and oversight
In addition to complying with our company’s global 
standards, the conduct of our clinical trials adheres 
to the International Council for Harmonisation Good 
Clinical Practice (ICH GCP)  standards and to the 
principles that have their origin in the Declaration 
of Helsinki.
When appropriate, an internal standing data-monitoring 
committee (DMC) comprising our research laboratories’ 
senior managers reviews unblinded data from ongoing 
trials in a pre-specified, scientifically acceptable manner. 
The goals of the DMC are to protect the safety of 
trial participants and assess whether the risk-benefit 
profile is favorable. The DMC’s recommendations are 
communicated internally to relevant scientists and can 
be distributed externally to clinical investigators, review 
boards or regulatory agencies, as appropriate.
ESG Report 2018
63GCP/PV 	INSPECTIONS 1
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
GCP/PV inspections by regulatory agencies of the company 
or clinical trial investigators that led to significant fines, 
penalties, warning letters or product seizures 0 0 – 0 0
1 Complete response letter received for Sugammadex (MK-8616) in 2013; complete response letter received for Januvia  
(sitagliptin; MK-0431) in 2016.
For more information on our clinical trials, please visit the Clinical Trials , Product & Patient Safety  and Quality & 
Safety Standards  pages on our Corporate Responsibility website, as well as our Clinical Trials website .SASB	270a.2	 Code	 of	ethics	governing	 promotion 	
of	off-label	use	of	products
We know that health care providers and patients look to 
us to provide accurate and balanced information about 
our products and services.
We believe that our marketing, sales and advertising 
activities make an important contribution to medicine 
by informing our customers of treatment options based 
on the most recent scientific information and findings 
from rigorous clinical studies.
Our sales and marketing practices are governed by 
external laws and regulations and industry codes of 
conduct, and by our own global Code of Conduct , our 
corporate policies and procedures, and our ethics and 
compliance program .
The labels in our product packaging contain information 
on possible side effects and, if appropriate, how to avoid 
some potential health problems. We include contact 
details on our corporate website for patients, caregivers 
and health professionals to report adverse experiences 
in the United States. Outside the United States, adverse 
events are reported in accordance with any additional 
local country laws and practices.
Depending on label changes and their context, we may 
determine, in consultation with regulatory authorities, 
that more extensive communications are appropriate. 
In such cases, we work with regulatory authorities to 
contact health care professionals in a timely manner, so 
that they can communicate these findings to patients 
through appropriate mechanisms. Contacting health 
care professionals might include “Dear Health Care 
Provider” letters and media statements.
Product Label Reviews
The ongoing oversight and monitoring of our product 
labels are a major focus of our safety efforts. Our label 
review teams monitor information on our products and SASB	260a.2	Process	for	alerting	customers	
and business partners of potential 
or known risks associated with 
counterfeit products
Our efforts in the area of advocacy, engagement 
and awareness involve raising public and stakeholder 
awareness of the risks posed by counterfeits, and 
advocate for increased enforcement to shape relevant 
regulatory requirements. In 2018, we continued our 
commitment to increasing our focus in this area and 
have strategically enhanced our ability to make a 
long-term impact on patient safety through various 
education campaigns.
We are committed to cooperating with relevant 
government agencies, other pharmaceutical 
manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors, health 
professionals, consumer groups and key related 
organizations in fighting the problem of counterfeit 
pharmaceutical products and in educating the public 
about the risks of counterfeit products and how to 
protect against them.
This effort includes a multipronged approach to 
communicating the threat that counterfeit medicines 
pose and to mitigating this threat as effectively as 
possible, while recognizing that it cannot be entirely 
eliminated.Collaboration and information-sharing in order to raise 
public and stakeholder awareness of the issue and risks 
are a crucial focus of our anti-counterfeiting program. 
Through active partnerships with other pharmaceutical 
companies, and with organizations focused on security, 
patient safety and public health, we provide effective 
advocacy on high-priority anti-counterfeiting policy 
initiatives.
For more information, please visit the Anti-Counterfeiting  
page on our Corporate Responsibility website.
MARKETING 	&	LABELING
GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and 
service information and labeling
GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning product and service 
information and labeling
GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning marketing 
communications
SASB	270a.1	 Monetary	losses	as	a	result	of	
legal proceedings associated with 
false marketing claims
ESG Report 2018
64work with our product RMS teams to develop or update 
product labeling. We regularly communicate relevant 
information to regulatory authorities worldwide.
Innovation	in	Medical	Evidence	Development	
and Surveillance	(IMEDS)
The IMEDS program is a public-private partnership 
within the Reagan-Udall Foundation for the Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA). The aims of IMEDS are to 
advance the science and tools necessary to support 
post-marketing evidence generation on regulated 
products, including safety surveillance and evaluations, 
and to facilitate the utilization of a robust secondary 
electronic health care data platform for generating 
better evidence on the safety and effectiveness of 
regulated products in post-market settings. Partners 
in IMEDS include the FDA, pharmaceutical companies, 
academia and patient organizations.
Health literacy
There are many examples of health literacy in action 
across our company’s product lifecycle, including our 
earliest clinical trials, informed consent, diversity in 
trials, patient labeling, instructions for use, packaging 
and patient education.
The FDA approved our sixth health literate patient label 
developed with iterative patient input, and we were 
recognized as the second runner-up for the Healthcare 
Compliance Packaging Council’s “package of the 
year” for our antiviral medicine used to help prevent 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection after a stem cell (bone 
marrow) transplant from a donor.
In 2018, our product labeling team developed a 
Standard Operating Process (SOP) for new molecules, 
and currently human health marketing is developing a 
process to integrate health literacy principles into all 
new or updated patient materials.SALES	&	MARKETING
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Number of warning letters or untitled letters from OPDP 1 
or APLB 2 in the U.S. 0 0 0 0 0
1 OPDP: Since September 2011, the Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and Communication (DDMAC) is now the Office of 
Prescription Drug Promotion (OPDP).
2 APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch (APLB) of the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.
For more information, please visit the Product & Patient 
Safety , Health Literacy  and Sales & Marketing  pages on 
our Corporate Responsibility website.
CUSTOMER 	PRIVACY
(CR material topic: Data privacy and information 
security)
MANAGEMENT 	APPROACH
In all that we do, we strive to be good data stewards to 
balance our data needs with our responsibilities to the 
people and communities we serve.
Information about our company, products and people is 
one of our most valuable assets. We are committed to 
ethical use, management and protection of information.
Our commitment applies not only to our company’s 
information, but also to the information entrusted 
to us by others. Our tools, processes and procedures 
ensure that we appropriately use and safeguard 
information throughout its life cycle to ensure integrity 
of information and to prevent unauthorized access 
and disclosure. We have developed and continue to 
improve upon a comprehensive, global, state of the art 
information security and cyber resiliency program to 
enable our company to fulfill its mission: inventing for life.Over the past 18 years, we have developed and 
continually improved a comprehensive global privacy 
program that promotes organizational accountability 
for privacy, data governance and data protection 
across our business and with our collaborative partners 
and suppliers.
Protecting personal health information
We are a member of the International Pharmaceutical 
Privacy Consortium (IPPC) , an association of research-
based pharmaceutical companies formed in 2002 
that has worldwide responsibility for the protection of 
personal health information and other types of personal 
data. We have been actively involved in the IPPC since 
2006, in order to engage in a constructive dialogue 
with European data-protection authorities and other 
regulators on privacy standards for biomedical research.
Information security & privacy
We also have established a set of privacy values  to guide 
all of our privacy, data stewardship, and data protection 
decisions. These core tenets serve as the foundational 
ethical framework for our comprehensive Global Privacy 
Program and our compliance with the continually 
evolving legal and regulatory standards for privacy and 
data protection.
ESG Report 2018
65Cyberattacks against our IT systems could result in 
exposure of confidential information, the modification 
of critical data, and/or the failure of critical operations. 
Misuse of these IT systems could result in the disclosure 
of sensitive personal information or the theft of trade 
secrets, intellectual property or other confidential 
business information. We continue to leverage new 
and innovative technologies across the enterprise to 
improve the efficacy and efficiency of its business 
processes, the use of which can create new risks.
Given the exponential rise in cybersecurity threats 
and complexity of those threats, and the increasing 
dependency on trusted partners to conduct our 
company’s business, as a critical component of the 
IT transformation, we have consolidated information 
security and cyber resiliency activities across IT 
under the leadership of Chief Information Security 
Officer (CISO).
The Audit Committee periodically reviews the Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) process to ensure that it is 
robust and functioning effectively. The Audit Committee 
oversees our company’s risk management program 
relating to cybersecurity; however, the full Board 
participates in periodic reviews and discussions dedicated 
to our company’s cyber risks, threats and protections.
For more information, please visit the Information 
Security & Privacy  and Clinical Trials  pages on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer data
GLOBAL	 PRIVACY	 PROGRAM
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Number of countries in which we conduct privacy 
compliance verification and risk assessment 137 137 137 137 137
Number of concerns regarding privacy practices, 
breaches of privacy and losses of personal data that 
were substantiated1, 3, 4151 143 227 123 315
Percentage of reported concerns regarding privacy 
practices, breaches of privacy and losses of personal 
data that were substantiated218% 96% 98% 98% 97%
Number of privacy breaches requiring notification by 
Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., to individuals 
or government authorities 1 0 1 0 2
Number of privacy breaches requiring notification by 
third parties working for Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, 
N.J., U.S.A., to individuals or government authorities 1 3 0 1 1
1 Privacy concerns include all concerns about our privacy practices escalated to our company’s Privacy Office. Substantiated 
concerns are those that are determined to be consistent with our own privacy standards or that involve loss of, theft or 
unauthorized access to personal data.
2 In 2015, because of the scope of lost or stolen devices known to be encrypted, we ceased inclusion of lost or stolen MSD devices 
in our incident metrics.
3 Reporting in 2017 was impacted by cyber-incident.
4 Increase in substantiated concerns in 2018 due to changes in reporting practices stemming from new requirements in the 
EU (GDPR).
ESG Report 2018
66GRI	INDEX
The GRI Standards represent global best practices for reporting publicly on a range of economic, environmental 
and social impacts. In conjunction with our Corporate Responsibility website, found at MSDresponsibility.com , our 
disclosures constitute a Core level GRI report.
The table below summarizes where these disclosures can be found throughout this report, and subsequently online.
General	Disclosures
GRI	102:	 Organizational 	Profile
102-1 Organization name Page 12
102-2 Primary brands, products, and services Page 12
102-3 Headquarters location Page 12
102-4 Location of operations Page 12
102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 12
102-6 Markets served Page 12
102-7 Scale of the organization Page 14
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 14
102-9 Supply chain Page 15
102-10 Organizational changes during the reporting period Page 16
102-11 Precautionary principle Page 16
102-12 External initiatives Page 16
102-13 Membership associations Page 17
GRI	102:	Strategy
102-14 CEO letter Page 17
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Not reported
ESG Report 2018
67GRI	102:	Ethics	&	Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Page 18
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 18
GRI	102:	Governance
102-18 Governance structure of the organization Page 19
102-19 Delegation of responsibility for sustainability topics Page 19
102-20 High-level accountability for sustainability topics Page 19
102-21 Access to the board Page 19
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Page 19
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Page 19
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Page 20
102-25 Board conflicts of interest Page 20
102-26 Board and executive roles Page 20
102-27 Board ESG knowledge Not reported
102-28 Board performance Not reported
102-29 Board identification of ESG impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 20
102-30 Board ESG review of risk management process Page 20
102-31 Frequency of board review Not reported
102-32 Report review Page 20
102-33 Board communication Page 21
102-34 Concerns communicated to the board Not reported
102-35 Remuneration policies Page 21
ESG Report 2018
68102-36 Process for determining remuneration Page 21
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Page 21
102-38 CEO/employee pay ratio Page 21
102-39 CEO/employee pay increase ratio Not reported
GRI	102:	Stakeholder	Engagement
102-40 Stakeholder engagement Page 21
102-41 Union representation Page 21
102-42 Stakeholder identification Page 21
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 21
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 23
GRI	102:	Reporting	Practice
102-45 Entities included in financial statements Page 24
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Page 24
102-47 Material aspects included Page 24
102-48 Restatements Page 25
102-49 Reporting changes Page 25
102-50 Reporting period Page 25
102-51 Date of most recent report Page 25
102-52 Reporting cycle Page 25
102-53 Report contact Page 25
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Page 25
102-55 GRI content index Page 25
ESG Report 2018
69102-56 External assurance Page 25
Economic
GRI	201:	Economic	Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 26
201-2 Financial implications due to climate change Page 27
201-3 Benefit plan coverage Page 27
201-4 Financial assistance from the government Not reported
GRI	202:	Market	Presence
202-1 Ratio of entry-level wage, by gender, to local minimum wage Not reported
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Not reported
GRI	203:	Indirect	Economic	Impacts
Management 
ApproachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness 
of the company’s strategy. 
Page 27
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Page 28
203-2 Indirect economic impacts Page 28
GRI	204:	Procurement	Practices
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Not reported
GRI	205:	Anti-Corruption
Management 
ApproachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the company’s strategy. 
Page 31
205-1 Risks related to corruption Not reported
205-2 Communications and training on anti-corruption Page 31
ESG Report 2018
70205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Not reported
GRI	206:	Anti-Competitive	Behavior
Management 
ApproachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness 
of the company’s strategy. 
Page 32
206-1 Anti-competitive behavior Page 32
Environmental
GRI	301:	Materials
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Not reported
301-2 Recycled inputs Not reported
301-3 Reclaimed materials Page 34
GRI	302:	Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (Scopes 1 + 2) Page 36
302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization (Scope 3) Not reported
302-3 Energy intensity Not reported
302-4 Energy reductions Page 37
302-5 Energy reductions in products and services Not applicable
GRI	303:	Water
303-1 Water withdrawals by source Page 38
303-2 Water sources affected by withdrawals Page 38
303-3 Water recycled and reused Page 39
GRI	304:	Biodiversity
304-1 Sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Not reported
ESG Report 2018
71304-2 Impacts on biodiversity Not reported
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Not reported
304-4 IUCN Red List species Not reported
GRI	305:	Emissions
305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Page 40
305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Page 40
305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Page 41
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 42
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 42
305-6 Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Page 43
305-7 NOx, SOx and other emissions Page 43
GRI	306:	Effluents	&	Waste
306-1 Water discharge Page 44
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Page 45
306-3 Significant spills Page 46
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not reported
306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Not reported
GRI	307:	Environmental	Compliance
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Page 47
GRI	308:	Supplier	Environmental	Assessment
308-1 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria Page 48
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Not reported
ESG Report 2018
72Social
GRI	401:	Employment
401-1 New employee hires and turnover Page 49
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Page 52
401-3 Parental leave Page 53
GRI	402:	Labor/Management	Relations
402-1 Notice periods regarding operational changes Not reported
GRI	403:	Occupational	Health	&	Safety
Management 
ApproachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness 
of the company’s strategy. 
Page 54
403-1 Workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees Not reported
403-2 Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days, absenteeism, and work-related fatalities Page 55
403-3 Workers with high risk of diseases related to their occupation Page 57
403-4 Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions Not reported
GRI	404:	Training	&	Education
404-1 Average hours of employee training Page 58
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Page 58
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews Page 59
GRI	405:	Diversity	&	Equal	Opportunity
Management 
ApproachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness 
of the company’s strategy. 
Page 59
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 60
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Not reported
ESG Report 2018
73GRI	406:	Non-Discrimination
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken Not reported
GRI	407:	Freedom	of	Association	&	Collective	Bargaining
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association may be at risk Not reported
GRI	408:	Child	Labor
408-1 Significant risk of child labor in operations and suppliers Not reported
GRI	409:	Forced	or	Compulsory	Labor
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Not reported
GRI	410:	Security	Practices
410-1 Security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies Not reported
GRI	411:	Rights	of	Indigenous	Peoples
411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Not reported
GRI	412:	Human	Rights	Assessment
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Page 61
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures Not reported
412-3 Investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or underwent screening Page 61
GRI	413:	Local	Communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessment, and development programs Not reported
413-2 Operations with significant potential and actual negative impacts on local communities Not reported
GRI	414:	Supplier	Social	Assessment
414-1 New suppliers screened using social criteria Page 62
414-2 Negative social impacts on society in the supply chain, and actions taken Not reported
ESG Report 2018
74GRI	415:	Public	Policy
415-1 Political contributions Page 62
GRI	416:	Customer	Health	&	Safety
Management 
ApproachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness 
of the company’s strategy. 
Page 62
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Not reported
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Page 62
GRI	417:	Marketing	&	Labeling
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Page 64
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling Page 64
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Page 64
GRI	418:	Customer	Privacy
Management 
ApproachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness 
of the company’s strategy. Page 65
418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Page 66
GRI	419:	Socioeconomic	Performance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Not reported
ESG Report 2018
75SASB	INDEX
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is dedicated to improving the effectiveness and 
comparability of corporate disclosure on environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors.
The table below cross-references the SASB Standards for the Health Care sector, and Biotechnology & 
Pharmaceuticals industry, with where that information can be found in conjunction with GRI disclosures 
throughout this report.
Safety of Clinical Trial Participants
210a.1 Management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials globally Page 62
210a.2 FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance that resulted in: (1) Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI) and 
(2) Official Action Indicated (OAI) 
Page 62
210a.3 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in developing countries Not reported
Access	to	Medicines
240a.1 Access to health care for priority diseases and in priority countries Page 28
240a.2 Products on WHO’s List of Prequalified Medicinal Products Page 28
Affordability	&	Pricing
240b.1 Settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that involved payments and/or provisions to delay bringing an authorized 
generic product to market  
Not reported
240b.2 Percentage change in: (1) average list price and (2) average net price across U.S. product portfolio compared to previous year Page 28
240b.3 Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) net price of product with largest increase compared to previous year Page 28
Drug	Safety	
250a.1 Products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database Not reported
Please visit the FAERS 
MedWatch  page for 
more information.
250a.2 Fatalities associated with products as reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Not reported
Please visit the FAERS 
MedWatch  page for 
more information.
ESG Report 2018
76250a.3 Recalls issued, and total units recalled Page 62
250a.4 Amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or disposal Not reported
250a.5 FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) Not reported
Counterfeit	Drugs
260a.1 Methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the supply chain Page 15
260a.2 Process for alerting customers and business partners of potential or known risks associated with counterfeit products Page 64
260a.3 Actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit products Not reported
Ethical Marketing
270a.1 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims Page 64
270a.2 Code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products Page 64
Employee	Recruitment,	Development,	and	Retention
330a.1 Talent recruitment and retention efforts for R&D personnel Page 49
330a.2 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) executives and senior managers, (b) midlevel managers, (c) professionals, and  
(d) all othersPage 49
Supply Chain Management
430a.1 Facilities and Tier I suppliers participating in the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium audit program, or equivalent Not reported
Business	Ethics
510a.1 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption and bribery Not reported
510a.2 Code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals Page 18
Activity	Metrics
000.A Patients treated (#) Page 14
000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in R&D (Phases 1-3) Corporate website
ESG Report 2018
77This communication of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. (the “company”) includes “forward-looking statements” 
within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These 
statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company’s management and are subject  
to significant risks and uncertainties. There can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products that the products 
will receive the necessary regulatory approvals or that they will prove to be commercially successful. If underlying 
assumptions prove inaccurate or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set 
forth in the forward-looking statements.
Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general industry conditions and competition; general economic 
factors, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; the impact of pharmaceutical industry 
regulation and health care legislation in the United States and internationally; global trends toward health care cost 
containment; technological advances, new products and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in 
new product development, including obtaining regulatory approval; the company’s ability to accurately predict future 
market conditions; manufacturing difficulties or delays; financial instability of international economies and sovereign 
risk; dependence on the effectiveness of the company’s patents and other protections for innovative products; and 
the exposure to litigation, including patent litigation, and/or regulatory actions.
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of  
new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from  
those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K   
and the company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) available at the SEC’s Internet 
site ( sec.gov ).
Visit MSDresponsibilty.com  to learn more.
The Office of Corporate Responsibility  
2000 Galloping Hill Road (K1-3181)  
Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A.
MSDresponsibility.com  Copyright © 2019 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.,  
a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., 
U.S.A. All rights reserved. 
Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., is known  
as MSD outside the United States and Canada.FORWARD-LOOKING 	STATEMENT