Environmental, Social  
& Governance (ESG)  
Progress Report 
2019/20202        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020This is the Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Progress Report 2019/2020  
of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., which is known as MSD outside 
the U.S. and Canada. This report is a supplement to our comprehensive online 
report, available at MSDresponsibility.com . Information on documents filed 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), such as our Form 10-K and 
Proxy Statement, can be found on our corporate website , which is intended  
only for residents of the U.S. and Canada.3-7  Introduction GRI/SASB disclosures
8–22  General Disclosures
23–35  Economic
36–58  Environmental
59–85  Social86–95  GRI/SASB indices
An SDG index can be found at 
MSDresponsibility.comContentsHighlights
43%
Management roles held 
by women.1
Zero
Employees laid off in 2020 as 
the result of the pandemic, 
including our 500-person 
summer internship program.Employees
25.4%
Purchased electricity from 
renewable sources.1,4  
By 2040, our goal is 100%.
15%Environmental 
Sustainability$2.4B
Spend with minority-, women-, veteran-, 
LGBT- and disability-owned suppliers.1Ethics & Values
1 As of December 31, 2019.
2  As defined by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) 
using GBD 2017 data; excluding road injury, self-harm, interpersonal 
violence and neonatal disorders.
3  This number is slightly higher in 2019 than in years past due to our  
expanded collaboration with MSD-Welcome Trust Hilleman 
Laboratories and our acquisitions of Immune Design and Peloton, 
Tilos Therapeutics and Calporta in 2019.
4  We have defined “purchased electricity” as electricity sourced from 
external suppliers as well as renewable electricity that was generated 
and utilized onsite where we retained the renewable attributes  
or where we have obtained renewable attributes through contract.100%
Top 20 global burdens of 
disease addressed by our 
products and pipeline.1,2,3
Ebola
Our Ebola Zaire Vaccine, ERVEBO, 
has been prequalified by the WHO, 
approved by the U.S. FDA, and approved 
by the Government of the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo (DRC).1We are currently  
advancing two 
SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 
vaccine candidates.
344M
Treatments for the 
elimination of river 
blindness and lymphatic 
filariasis (LF) shipped to 
endemic countries.1Access to Health
Reduction in water use 
since 2015.1
3        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesDear Stakeholders,
As we launch our 2019/2020 
Corporate Responsibility Report, 
the world continues to face 
a health crisis of proportions 
unprecedented in our lifetimes. 
With the COVID-19 pandemic 
persisting in communities across 
the globe, never has there been 
a moment when our mission — to 
save and improve lives — appears 
as clear and compelling. 
For more than 125 years, our 
unwavering commitment to 
inventing new medicines and 
vaccines in the fight against 
infectious diseases means that we 
have the capability, capacity and 
expertise to help develop effective 
responses to the pandemic. 
We are advancing two 
SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 
vaccines — one in partnership 
with IAVI and another through our 
acquisition of Themis Bioscience. 
In addition, we are collaborating 
with Ridgeback Bio to develop a 
novel antiviral candidate. 
We are also proud to be a part of 
the global collaborations, joining 
research efforts with the Institute for Systems Biology as well as the 
ACTIV (Accelerating COVID-19 
Therapeutic Interventions and 
Vaccines) consortium, led by 
National Institutes of Health. And 
we are collaborating with the Bill & 
Melinda Gates Foundation as well 
as other global stakeholders, on 
issues of access and the equitable 
deployment of pandemic vaccines. 
We have also prioritized the 
health, safety and wellbeing of our 
employees. Recognizing both their 
passion to make a difference and 
the demand for frontline health 
care professionals, we introduced 
a new global program in March 
2020 to enable our medically 
trained employees to volunteer 
time to aid their communities while 
maintaining their base pay. We are 
so grateful to our employees who 
heeded the call to serve — they 
exemplify our commitment to 
patients and to our mission to save 
and improve lives. 
In addition, we have contributed 
or committed more than $30 
million to global, national and 
local COVID-19 relief efforts to 
help strengthen health systems 
and address health disparities, 
including among Black and A message from our CEO
Latino Americans who have been 
disproportionately impacted by 
the pandemic. 
We’re also addressing these 
disparities through our social 
justice efforts, partnering to close 
the opportunity gap to diverse 
talent at all stages of their careers. 
We continue to advance economic 
inclusion through our 35-year-
long effort to support small- and 
minority-owned business and 
support our workforce through a 
broad range of existing diversity 
and inclusion resources, including 
those aimed at eliminating 
unconscious bias, discrimination 
and exclusion. 
Our stand against systemic racism 
and for health equity and economic 
inclusion along with our ability to 
respond with confidence to crises 
like this pandemic are underpinned 
by our core commitment to 
operating responsibly. What we do 
matters as much as how we work, 
which is why acting responsibly 
is embraced within our four key 
areas of corporate responsibility: 
Access to Health, Employees, 
Environmental Sustainability, and 
Ethics & Values. In this report, we provide updates 
on our strategy and performance 
in these key areas, reflecting 
progress we made in 2019 as well 
as the first half of 2020. 
One of our proudest achievements 
is our work to combat the latest 
Ebola outbreak in the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo (DRC). Since 
July 2018, over 300,000 patients 
have been vaccinated to-date with 
investigational doses of Ebola Zaire 
Vaccine (V920) that we donated 
to the World Health Organization 
(WHO) in support of outbreak 
response efforts. In November 
2019, ERVEBO (Ebola Zaire 
Vaccine, Live) was prequalified by 
WHO, and in December 2019 it 
was approved by the FDA. While 
manufacturing efforts continue, 
we are committed to continuing 
to supply investigational doses 
as needed to support ongoing 
outbreak response efforts in the 
DRC and neighboring countries. 
These efforts help ensure that 
a vaccine will continue to be 
available in the fight against this 
deadly virus.
Our response to the Ebola 
outbreak is part of our long track 
record of making our vaccines 
4        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indicesand medicines accessible and 
affordable, work that is guided 
by our Access to Health Guiding 
Principles. First introduced in 
2010, the Principles ensure we 
fulfill our commitment to access as 
a core company value. Recognizing 
changing global access needs, we 
conducted a strategic reevaluation 
of our principles this past year. 
We’re pleased to come forward 
with refreshed principles and Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
that measure and report on our 
progress and performance in a 
more meaningful way. 
We have also recently increased 
the diversity of our Board of 
Directors, now comprising 
46 percent women, up from 
33 percent at the end of 2019. Our  
Board has long believed in the 
business value of having diverse 
perspectives and is committed to 
having the right mix of skills and 
expertise to address our current 
and future needs.
These, and many other examples 
of our progress this past year, 
are detailed in this report which 
uses widely recognized reporting Kenneth C. Frazier
Chairman and Chief Executive Officerframeworks, reflects our support 
for the 10 universally accepted 
principles of the UN Global 
Compact, and recognizes the 
important role we play in helping 
to address the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). Our 
primary focus as it relates to these 
global goals is SDG 3, Good Health 
and Wellbeing, which aligns with 
our core business and mission.
While 2020 has been, and will 
continue to be, challenging in 
unparalleled ways, the ingenuity, 
flexibility and perseverance of our 
more than 70,000 employees gives 
me hope. Throughout our history, 
we have been committed to a  
clear and compelling mission to 
save and improve lives. 
We have every intention to 
continue on this path.
Sincerely,
5        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesOperating responsibly as a business is at the very heart of our 
ability to deliver sustainable impact — driving long-term value 
for our company and society.Our purpose
For more than a century, we have 
been inventing medicines and 
vaccines for many of the world’s 
most challenging diseases, 
and we have built a company 
with the talent, tenacity and 
strength to take on some of the 
biggest threats to human and 
animal health.
We continue to focus our research 
on conditions that represent some 
of today’s most significant health 
challenges — cancer, diabetes, HIV, 
HPV, hepatitis C, cardio-metabolic 
disease, antibiotic-resistant 
infection, Alzheimer’s disease and 
others — and we are on the front 
lines in the fight against global 
pandemics, such as COVID-19 
and Ebola.
 Our approach to corporate 
responsibility is about the 
health, economic, social and 
environmental impact we have 
on individuals, communities and 
ecosystems around the world.
We hold ourselves accountable to 
our many stakeholders, including 
patients, employees, customers 
and shareholders, all of whom 
help to define our corporate 
responsibility priorities.
 
6        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesWe aspire to improve access to 
health by discovering, developing and 
providing innovative products and 
services that save and improve lives. 01
Access to health
We recognize that our ability to excel 
depends on the integrity, knowledge, 
imagination, skill, diversity and 
teamwork of our employees.03
EmployeesA healthy planet is essential to human 
health and the sustainability of  
our business.02
Environmental Sustainability
Through our unwavering commitment 
to transparency, we earn the trust 
and confidence of our stakeholders. 04
Ethics & ValuesWe aspire to improve access to 
health by discovering, developing and 
providing innovative products and 
services that save and improve lives. Access to Health
We recognize that our ability to excel 
depends on the integrity, knowledge, 
imagination, skill, diversity and 
teamwork of our employees.EmployeesA healthy planet is essential to  
human health and the sustainability  
of our business.Environmental Sustainability
Through our unwavering commitment 
to transparency, we earn the trust 
and confidence of our stakeholders. Ethics & ValuesReflecting our commitment to managing environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) issues, we continue to focus our 
approach to corporate responsibility in four primary areas  
that are of greatest relevance to our business and society.Our focus
7        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI/SASB Disclosures
8        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices9        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGeneral 
Disclosures
Organizational Profile
GRI 102-1 Organization name  (Core)
GRI 102-2  Primary brands, products, and 
services (Core)
GRI 102-3 Headquarters location (Core)
GRI 102-4 Location of operations (Core)
GRI 102-5  Ownership and legal form (Core)
GRI 102-6 Markets served  (Core)
In the United States and Canada, we are known as 
Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, USA. Elsewhere 
we are known as MSD.
We are a global health care company that delivers 
innovative health solutions through our prescription 
medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal 
health products. The company’s operations are 
principally managed on a products basis and 
include four operating segments, which are the 
Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Healthcare Services 
and Alliances segments. 
The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health 
pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health 
pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and 
preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, 
for the treatment of human disorders. The company 
sells these human health pharmaceutical products 
primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, 
hospitals, government agencies and managed 
health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other 
institutions. Human health vaccine products consist 
of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, 
primarily administered at physician offices. The 
company sells these human health vaccines primarily 
to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and 
government entities. 
The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, 
manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary 
pharmaceutical and vaccine products, as well as health 
management solutions and services, for the prevention, 
treatment and control of disease in all major livestock 
and companion animal species. The company also offers 
an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, 
traceability and monitoring products. The company  
sells its products to veterinarians, distributors and 
animal producers. 10        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesThe Healthcare Services segment provides services 
and solutions that focus on engagement, health 
analytics and clinical services to improve the value of 
care delivered to patients. The company has recently 
sold certain businesses in the Healthcare Services 
segment and is in the process of divesting the remaining 
businesses. While the company continues to look for 
investment opportunities in this area of health care, 
the approach to these investments has shifted toward 
venture capital investments in third parties as opposed 
to wholly owned businesses. 
The Alliances segment primarily includes activity from 
the company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP  
related to sales of Nexium and Prilosec, which concluded 
in 2018.
In February 2020, we announced our intention to 
spin-off products from our women’s health, trusted 
legacy brands and biosimilars businesses into a new, 
independent, publicly traded company (Organon) 
through a distribution of Organon’s publicly traded 
stock to company shareholders. 
Our U.S. commercial operations are headquartered 
in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The company’s 
U.S. pharmaceutical business is conducted through 
divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd, 
Pennsylvania and Kenilworth, New Jersey. Our vaccines 
business is conducted through divisional headquarters 
located in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The Animal 
Health headquarters is located in Madison, New Jersey. 
Principal U.S. research facilities are located in Rahway 
and Kenilworth, New Jersey; West Point, Pennsylvania; 
Palo Alto, California; Boston, Massachusetts; South 
San Francisco, California; and Elkhorn, Nebraska 
(Animal Health). Principal research facilities outside the United States  
are located in Switzerland and China. Our manufacturing  
operations are headquartered in Whitehouse Station, 
New Jersey. We also have production facilities for 
human health products at nine locations in the United 
States and Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, 
through subsidiaries, we own or have an interest in 
manufacturing plants or other properties in Japan, 
Singapore, South Africa, and other countries in 
Western Europe, Central and South America, and Asia.
The principal market for trading of our Common 
Stock is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under 
the symbol MRK. As of January 31, 2020, there were 
approximately 109,500 shareholders of record of the 
company’s common stock.
For more information, please see our 2019 Form 10-K 
on our corporate website.11        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
Latin America  
7.4%Japan  
5.0%U.S. 
35.1%Europe (Western) and Canada  
29.8% 
Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa
4.5%
Asia-Pacific  
18.3%
Employees by region 
Workforce 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Number of employees as of December 31, 2019 
(approximate)68,000 68,000 69,000 69,000 71,000
People reached through major programs and partnerships  
(estimate in millions) 1188 293 311 357 422
1 Represents investments by our Office of Social Business Innovation, including our Office of Corporate Responsibility, MSD for Mothers and our 
company’s Foundation.GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization (Core)
GRI 102-8  Information on employees and 
other workers (Core)
SASB 000.A Patients treated  (#)
As of December 31, 2019, the company had 
approximately 71,000 employees worldwide, with 
approximately 26,000 employed in the United States, 
including Puerto Rico. Approximately 30 percent of 
worldwide employees of the company are represented 
by various collective bargaining groups.
For more information on our global impact, please visit 
our Diversity & Inclusion  and Social Investments  pages 
on MSDresponsibility.com.12        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 102-9 Supply chain (Core)
SASB 260a.1  Methods and technologies used to 
maintain traceability of products 
throughout the supply chain 
Our company manufactures, packages and distributes 
products to more than 140 markets around the world. 
Our facilities, along with our external contractors, 
suppliers and partners, make up an integrated, 
interdependent global manufacturing network that 
is committed to delivering compliant, reliable supply 
to customers and patients on time, all the time, and 
every time.
Our business goal is to achieve world-class supply in 
delivery, services and quality. We source from suppliers 
globally in the areas of capital equipment and services, 
direct materials and services, energy, professional 
services, site and commercial services, IT, marketing 
and research supplies and services.
We continue to support the Pharmaceutical Industry 
Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management  
(the Principles). The Principles outline industry 
expectations for external manufacturers and licensees 
with regard to labor, health, safety, environment, ethics 
and management systems. The external manufacturers 
with which we contract are expected to understand and 
align with the Principles. 
Furthermore, we are a signatory to the 10 Principles of 
the United Nations Global Compact .The Global Sourcing & Procurement and Supplier 
Management function is responsible for maintaining the 
standards by which suppliers are identified, qualified 
and managed. Supplier selection and management 
follow a robust sourcing management process, in 
which environmental sustainability, economic inclusion 
and supplier diversity principles are integrated 
throughout each stage. Throughout the supplier life 
cycle, our company establishes expectations, assesses 
risk, supports supplier development and manages 
performance.Our company’s Processes Operations and Strategy 
(PO&S) Sustainable Sourcing Team is responsible for 
managing our Environmental Sustainable Sourcing 
program. 
Utilizing a standardized survey template generated 
and maintained by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Initiative (PSCI), we collect information including but 
not limited to: greenhouse gas, energy, water, supplier 
sustainability programs and goals.  
Goals Progress Indicator
By 2018, we will collect greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions and 
water use data from at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers 
with the highest environmental impact.GHG and water data collected 
from 96% of high-impact 
strategic suppliersAchieved
By 2020, we will engage with those suppliers and request them to 
identify GHG emission and water use reduction opportunities.On track On track
By 2025, at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers with the 
highest environmental impacts will set their own GHG emission 
and water use reduction targets.On track On track13        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesWe believe
in developing 
mutually beneficial relationships with our business partners, founded on trust and respect.We conduct 
business with integrity; we comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations of the countries in which we operate.We seek 
to have a positive impact on the lives of our employees, their families and the communities in which we operate along with our suppliers in support of our customers.We expect 
companies in our business partner network to do the same.Our analysis shows that a large portion of our water 
use and GHG emissions are generated upstream of our own operations in various tiers of our supply chain. 
We realize that in order to make a truly meaningful 
reduction in our overall environmental impact, we must engage with our suppliers to drive positive change. We have a focus on collaborating with our suppliers to 
accelerate and enhance environmental initiatives.
Programs and initiatives
We have also initiated a new program designed to 
evaluate our suppliers’ environmental sustainability programs. The GREEN Supplier program requests that 
selected suppliers provide environmental metrics, 
environmental certificates and assurance that they can meet our GREEN Supplier requirements. Suppliers that are able to complete these three items in the associated 
database are certified as GREEN. 
Our company’s Economic Inclusion Leadership Council 
(EILC) is comprised of leaders across the Global Supplier Management and Global Workforce & Enterprise Services who are passionate about making our company 
the very best it can be. The role of the EILC members is 
to serve as peer-coaches and role models, each having made significant strides in managing supplier diversity to yield business results across their teams and the 
enterprise.
Supplier and third-party risk management 
Supplier and third-party risk management is an 
enterprise-wide effort supported by Global Sourcing & Procurement, Supplier Management, the Office of 
General Counsel, Ethics & Compliance, Global Quality, 
Corporate Audit and Assurance, and Environmental Health & Safety. Representatives from each function meet regularly to discuss, assess and manage issues  
on a risk-driven basis.Our Business Partner Code of Conduct , along with our 
company’s Supplier Performance Expectations, are 
communicated to existing and potential third-party suppliers and are included in requests for information, proposals and quotes as well as in our purchase-
order terms and conditions. We select suppliers that 
share our commitment to our values and principles, as defined in our Business Partner Code of Conduct and Supplier Expectations Letter. In addition, we 
participate in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Initiative’s Pharmaceutical Industry Principles and are a signatory to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact.
We have a defined risk-management process, and our 
supply base is measured against the process criteria. 
Using a risk-based approach, supplier assessments and audits are conducted based on multiple factors (e.g., risk profile, engagement and activity type and 
geography). The assessments and audits evaluate 
a supplier’s ability to meet both industry and our own standards for quality, safety and ethical business practices. Results are reviewed with senior management across the company.Our supplier assessments include:
• L abor and human rights
• A nti-bribery and anticorruption
• P rivacy and data protection
• E nvironmental, health and safety issues
• Quality
• R esponsible sourcing of minerals
• A nimal welfare
• I nformation technology
• I ntellectual property
• F inancial solvency
• C yber resiliency
Where assessments and audits identify deficiencies or opportunities for improvement, we monitor suppliers to ensure that our concerns are addressed 
in a responsible and compliant manner. As part of 
our oversight and monitoring, we have established mechanisms to report, track and monitor supplier plans to address nonconformance and help drive continued 
improvement.14        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesOur SAQ requires suppliers to answer a series of 
labor and human rights questions covering a range of 
subjects, including freely chosen employment, child 
labor, employment practices, employee disclosures, fair 
treatment, wages, benefits and working hours.
Each supplier’s responses are used to judge whether 
that supplier has programs and/or procedures in place 
to address potential risks for labor and human rights 
related deficiencies.
Since implementing the Labor and Human Rights 
program in 2015, we have conducted 234 onsite audits 
in countries identified as high risk for potential human 
rights violations. We track audit-related corrective and 
preventative actions to completion.
No incidents of child labor and/or young workers 
exposed to hazardous work were reported.
Additionally, we maintain a “Speak Up” tool 
(MSDethics.com ) for any employee, supplier or 
business partner to report concerns, including  
those related to labor and human rights issues.
Managing external manufacturers of our 
products
The company maintains strict quality standards  —    
no matter where in the world our products are 
manufactured. Once we have decided to engage 
with an external manufacturer, that manufacturer is 
required to comply with our business requirements 
which are set forth in our contract with that supplier, 
regardless of geography.
Prospective external manufacturers of active 
pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products 
are screened for environmental, health and safety 
(EHS) compliance, in addition to quality and supply and 
technical competence requirements. The EHS screening 
includes a survey covering such topics as regulatory 
compliance, fatalities and major incidents.Based on the screening results and activities 
undertaken by the supplier, certain external 
manufacturers are subject to a more detailed 
onsite assessment conducted by a multidisciplinary 
team, which may include our company’s Quality, 
Environmental, Health & Safety, Global Technical 
Operations and Global Sourcing & Procurement 
representatives.
The external manufacturers we contract with are 
periodically reassessed using a risk-based approach; 
higher-risk external manufacturers are subject to 
more frequent onsite assessments. We expect that 
observations made during the audit process will 
be remediated by our external manufacturers, and 
we monitor and track corrective actions through 
completion.
For more information on our supply chain, please 
visit our Manufacturing & Supply , Quality & Safety 
Standards , Vaccines , Oncology , Women’s Health , 
and Sourcing & Supplier Relations  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 102-10  Organizational changes during 
the reporting period  (Core)
While no significant organizational changes occurred 
in 2019, in February 2020, we announced our intention 
to spin-off products from our women’s health, trusted 
legacy brands and biosimilars businesses into an 
independent, publicly traded company. The transaction 
is expected to be completed in the first half of 2021.
GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle  (Core)
We take a precautionary approach when evaluating 
potential human exposures and environmental 
impacts resulting from our manufacturing processes. 
Conservative assumptions are made when data are 
limited, and safety factors are added to address 
uncertainty and variability in our assessments.Protecting the privacy of personal information
Some of our suppliers and service providers, such as 
contract research organizations, market research 
agencies, information technology systems developers 
and other service providers, process personal 
information in connection with their performance of 
services for our company. We require these suppliers 
and service providers to provide appropriate privacy 
protection for personal information that they handle 
in accordance with our privacy policies and applicable 
privacy laws, regulations and guidelines.
Protecting against cyberattacks and assuring 
business continuity
We recognize that cybersecurity events at third parties 
pose an increased risk to our business continuity. In 
2019, our company built a cyber resiliency supplier 
risk management program, including a Center of 
Excellence for Governance, assessments of key 
suppliers, and collaborative workshops, to review 
risks and remediation actions. The program fosters 
mutually beneficial partnerships with our top suppliers. 
We continue to enhance the program to improve 
operational excellence and continuous monitoring 
capabilities.
Supplier assessment for labor practices and 
human rights
We have a formal program to evaluate the risks for 
labor and human rights in our supply chain. Prior 
to contracting, all new direct suppliers (as well as 
certain new indirect and research suppliers in specific 
geographies) are required to complete and return 
a Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) 
for Ethics & Compliance. Pre-existing external 
manufacturing suppliers and contract manufacturing 
organizations also complete SAQs.15        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesThis type of approach is particularly relevant to 
our work in toxicology, industrial hygiene and 
environmental protection.
By using more efficient and innovative processing 
methods and technologies, we are reducing the amount 
of energy, water and raw materials we use to make our 
products, thereby minimizing the amount of waste we 
generate and lowering our production costs.
We go to great lengths to ensure that our products 
are designed, made and used in a safe, effective 
and environmentally sound manner. We deliver on 
this commitment by maintaining a highly trained 
and capable scientific staff and by actively pursuing 
manufacturing process improvements that minimize 
environmental impacts. We have set environmental 
sustainability goals  to demonstrate this commitment 
with concrete targets and timelines. To ensure that 
our knowledge stays current with that of thought 
leaders and experts in the industry, we also collaborate 
with external resources and industry groups, such 
as the American Chemical Society and the European 
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and 
Associations.
For more information, please visit our Product 
Stewardship  section on MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 102-12 External initiatives (Core)
Though not an exhaustive list, below are examples of 
third-party principles and initiatives we have endorsed.
Water
We have endorsed the UN CEO Water Mandate , a public 
commitment to adopt and implement a comprehensive 
approach to water management, and we have aligned 
our water program with its principles. CEO Water Mandate endorsers have a responsibility to make 
water-resource management a priority and to work 
with governments, UN agencies, nongovernmental 
organizations, local communities and other interested 
parties to address global water challenges. We are 
working to identify partnerships that will help us 
advance our water stewardship priorities in the areas 
in which we operate. These projects also support the 
goals of SDG 15, which strives to “protect, restore and 
promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems.”
Human rights
Our company believes in the dignity of every human 
being and recognizes the international human rights 
principles embodied in the United Nations Global 
Compact and as defined in the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and its subsequent 
changes, the International Covenant on Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant 
on Civil and Political Rights, the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development Guidelines for 
Multinational Enterprises and the core labor standards 
set out by the International Labor Organization.
Supply chain
Our human rights practices are informed and guided 
by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative’s (PSCI’s) 
Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible 
Supply Chain Management  which set the standard for 
ethics, labor, health, safety and the environment for 
our industry.
Diversity
In 2009, we signed onto the United Nations Women’s 
Empowerment Principles. These principles reflect 
seven areas of focus designed to promote gender 
equality in business.Clinical research
In accordance with our public policy position statement, 
all investigational studies in human subjects are 
conducted in a manner consistent with laws, regulations 
and guidelines for the protection of human subjects, 
including those issued by the International Council for 
Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP).
Animal health
We encourage proactive vaccination of animals to 
prevent disease and support the responsible use of 
antibiotics to treat and improve the health of animals. 
As a global animal health company, we support the 
Antibiotic Commitment  established by the animal 
health industry.
Privacy
We are a member of the  International Pharmaceutical 
Privacy Consortium (IPPC) , an association of research-
based pharmaceutical companies formed in 2002 
that has worldwide responsibility for the protection 
of personal health information and other types of 
personal data. We have been actively involved in the 
IPPC since 2006, in order to engage in a constructive 
dialogue with European data-protection authorities 
and other regulators on privacy standards for 
biomedical research.
For more information, please visit our Reporting 
Overview ,  Addressing Barriers to Health , Water , Global 
Diversity & Inclusion , Direct-to-Consumer Advertising , 
Engaging with Health Care Professionals , Sales & 
Marketing Practices , Sourcing & Supplier Relations , 
Ensuring Ethical Business Practices , and Human Rights  
pages on MSDresponsibility.com.16        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 102-13  Membership associations (Core)
Our company is a member of numerous industry and 
trade groups. We work with these groups because they 
represent the pharmaceutical industry and business 
community in debates led by governments and other 
stakeholders, and because they help the industry reach 
consensus on policy issues.
Our top three trade associations in 2019:
• Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of 
America (PhRMA)
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce
• Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) 
When our trade associations actively lobby on our core 
business issues, we seek to align their positions with 
our own. There are times, however, when we may not 
share the views of our peers or associations  —  both on 
issues that are central to our business and on those 
that, while important, are not directly material to 
our mission. With representatives on the boards and 
committees of industry groups and trade associations, 
we can voice questions or concerns we may have 
about policy or related activities. We may even recuse 
ourselves from related trade association or industry 
group activities when appropriate.
The Corporate Secretary sends an annual report to our 
company’s Board of Directors on trade association dues 
greater than $25,000 that were spent in the previous 
year on lobbying and political activity in the U.S. The 
Governance Committee of the Board of Directors has 
ongoing oversight of the company’s membership in 
trade associations and grassroots lobbying activities.
For a list of industry and trade groups of which we are a 
member, and our trade association dues (those greater 
than $25,000) that are used for political purposes, 
please refer to our corporate website.
For more information, please visit our Public Policy  
page on MSDresponsibility.com.Through our top three trade associations (listed 
on left), we engaged on the following policy issues 
in 2019:
In the U.S., the top issues at the federal level for 
which our company lobbied were:
• Medicare Part B
• Medicare Part D
• International Reference Pricing
• Medicaid Average Manufacturer Price (AMP) cap
In the U.S., our company lobbied at the state level 
to address these key issues:
• Market-based solutions for access to innovative 
pharmaceutical, vaccine, biologic and animal 
health products
• Meaningful price transparency 
• A strong business environment for U.S. 
operations in the states
• Support for a strong immunization 
infrastructure
• Product stewardship/take-back of 
unused medicines
In Europe, our advocacy focused on:
• Addressing the European Commission’s review 
of incentives for biopharmaceutical products
• Fostering frameworks for sound pricing and 
procurement regimes in and across diverse EU 
member state economies
• Supporting government vaccination, hepatitis 
and diabetes programs
• Advancing the dialogue for sustainable models 
to fund future cancer care
• Improving standards for health technology 
assessment and health literacy
• Ensuring science-based policies for biological 
medicinesStrategy
GRI 102-14 CEO letter  (Core)
Please see the letter from our Chairman and CEO on 
page 4 .
Ethics & Integrity
GRI 102-16  Values, principles, standards,  
and norms of behavior  (Core)
GRI 102-17  Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethics
SASB 510a.2  Code of ethics governing interactions 
with health care professionals
Our company’s Office of Ethics is responsible for 
ensuring that employees are aware of and trained on 
the Code of Conduct  and company policies.
The Office of Ethics serves as a channel for the receipt 
and investigation of ethics and compliance-related 
concerns. Employees are encouraged to raise their 
concerns to their management, Human Resources, 
Compliance, Legal or the Office of Ethics. Throughout 
2018 and 2019, the Office of Ethics enhanced its global 
ethics program including the implementation of an 
improved reporting tool operated by an independent 
third party, named Speak Up at MSDethics.com . Speak 
Up at MSDethics.com  (formerly theadviceline.com) is 
available 24/7 and allows employees and suppliers to 
raise concerns or ask questions confidentially (where 
permitted by law) in their preferred language via phone 
or internet.
In alignment with our priority to protect and enhance 
our company’s reputation through safe, ethical and 
compliant behaviors, the Office of Ethics added three 
Regional Ethics Officers to their team and established 
a network of site-based volunteer Ethics Ambassadors 
outside of the United States.17        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesFor more information on our approach to ethics, please 
visit our  Code of Conduct  and Office of Ethics  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
Governance
GRI 102-18  Governance structure of the 
organization (Core)
GRI 102-19  Delegation of responsibility
GRI 102-20  High-level accountability for 
sustainability topics
GRI 102-21 Access to the board
GRI 102-22  Composition of the board and its 
committees
GRI 102-23  Chair of the highest governance body
Kenneth C. Frazier, our company’s chairman of the 
Board and chief executive officer, is the only company 
executive serving on the Board.
The primary mission of our Board is to represent and 
protect the long-term interests of our company’s 
shareholders. The Board meets, at minimum, six times 
per year to provide strategic direction and to review our 
progress on a wide variety of measures.
In overseeing the affairs of the company, including 
our governance, the Board has established four 
committees, each of which is composed solely of 
independent directors. 
The four committees are: 
• Audit
• Compensation and Benefits
• Governance 
• ResearchAll of our standing committees are governed by 
Board-approved charters, which are available on our 
corporate website. Information on our company’s board 
committees can be found in our company’s 2020 Proxy 
Statement (pages 15, 20–21).
Six independent directors constitute our company’s 
Governance Committee. Chaired by Leslie A. Brun, the 
company’s lead independent director, the committee 
is responsible for advising the company’s Board of 
Directors and management on company policies and 
practices that pertain to the company’s responsibilities 
as a global corporate citizen, its special obligations as 
a health care company whose products and services 
affect health and quality of life around the world, and 
its commitment to the highest standards of ethics and 
integrity in all of its dealings.
The Governance Committee has responsibility for 
overseeing the company’s corporate responsibility 
and public policy issues. Additional information on the 
Governance Committee’s responsibilities can be found 
in our company’s 2020 Proxy Statement (page 21) or 
in its committee charter available on the Corporate 
Governance  page on MSDresponsibility.com.
In addition to the Governance Committee, other 
Board committees oversee issues indirectly related to 
corporate responsibility, such as audit and compliance, 
executive compensation and research.The Office of Corporate Responsibility
The Office of Corporate Responsibility is responsible 
for raising the visibility of corporate responsibility 
issues and activities across the company and fosters 
connections across business units and functional areas 
to integrate our corporate responsibility principles into 
business policies, strategies and practices, including 
the enterprise risk management (ERM) process, and 
brings the voice of external stakeholders into decision-
making processes.
The Office of Corporate Responsibility also coordinates 
the development, implementation and communication 
of our global approach and, with strategic guidance 
from the Public Policy and Responsibility Council 
(PPRC), Executive Committee and the Board 
Governance Committee, is responsible for publishing 
the annual corporate responsibility report. 
Contacting the Board
The Board of Directors welcomes input from 
shareholders and other interested parties, and has 
established a process to receive these communications. 
Shareholders and interested parties may communicate 
directly with the Board, the independent Lead Director, 
the non-management or independent Directors as a 
group, or other members of the Board by writing to the 
following address: 
Board of Directors 
Merck & Co., Inc. 
2000 Galloping Hill Road, K1-4157 
Kenilworth, NJ 07033 U.S.A. 
For more information on our approach to governance, 
please visit the Corporate Governance  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.18        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 102-24  Board nomination and  
selection processes
GRI 102-25 Board conflicts of interest
GRI 102-26 Board and executive roles
For more information on our Board of Directors, 
please visit our 2020 Proxy Statement (pages 15–17), 
as well as the Corporate Governance  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 102-29    Board identification of ESG impacts, 
risks, and opportunities
GRI 102-30    Board ESG review of risk 
management process
GRI 102-32   Report review
GRI 102-33   Board communication
For information on our board’s involvement with our 
ESG strategy and reporting, as well as how to contact 
them, please see GRI 102-19 and GRI 102-20 on 
page 17 . You may also visit our Corporate Governance  
page on MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 102-35  Remuneration policies for the board 
and senior executives
GRI 102-36  Process for determining 
remuneration
GRI 102-37   Remuneration shareholder 
resolutions
Please see our 2020 Proxy Statement (pages 28, 38–41).
GRI 102-38 CEO/employee pay ratio
The median total annual compensation as calculated 
under the Summary Compensation Table requirements 
was $95,621 comprised of base salary, annual incentive, 
savings plan company match and change in pension value, all of which were annualized to reflect a full year 
of service. The total annual compensation for our CEO 
was $27,648,475. A reasonable estimation of the ratio 
of our CEO’s compensation to our median compensation 
including the change in pension value is 289 to 1; 
excluding change in pension value the ratio is 246 to 1. 
Under the SEC rules, companies may identify the 
median total annual compensation using a wide variety 
of methods including reasonable assumptions and 
estimations. It is therefore difficult to compare our 
ratio to the ratio of other companies.
For more information, please visit our 2020 Proxy 
Statement (pages 46, 57–60).
Stakeholder Engagement
GRI 102-40  Stakeholder engagement (Core)
GRI 102-41 Union representation (Core)
GRI 102-42 Stakeholder identification  (Core)
GRI 102-43  Approach to stakeholder 
engagement  (Core)
We engage with a diverse group of stakeholders to 
more fully understand their needs and expectations, 
and to gain insights that can inform our efforts to 
improve access to health care and foster progress 
toward solutions that benefit society and support 
our business.
Patients and caregivers
We embrace the opportunity to engage with individual 
patients, patient advocacy organizations, and 
caregivers to better understand their health care 
journeys, expected outcomes and decision-making 
considerations. For more information on our work with 
patient groups, please visit our Patient Engagement  
page on MSDresponsibility.com.Health care professionals
We are committed to providing appropriate and 
balanced information to physicians and other health 
care providers about our medicines, vaccines and 
ongoing research. For more information, please visit 
the Engaging With Health Care Professionals  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com. 
Payers
We work with payers worldwide to inform their 
understanding of the relationship between the prices of 
our products and the true value they deliver to patients 
and health care systems. 
Governments, multilateral organizations 
and regulators
We work with policy makers, legislators, multilateral 
organizations, and governments worldwide to ensure 
that policy and regulatory environments globally, 
nationally, and locally foster patient access to 
medicines and vaccines, and that they are conducive 
to ethical business practices, science and innovation. 
To learn more, please visit the  Public Policy  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
Shareholders
We strive to create shareholder value by identifying 
opportunities to meet customer needs and by 
managing our business responsibly to achieve superior 
financial results over the long term. To learn more, 
please visit the Stakeholder Engagement  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
Local communities
We work toward developing culturally appropriate 
mechanisms to engage and build relationships with 
our local community stakeholders. To learn more, 
please visit the Supporting Our Communities  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.19        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesEnvironmental stakeholders
We work to reduce the environmental effects of our 
operations and products and to promote sustainable 
environmental practices within the company, among 
our partners, and throughout our supply chain. To learn 
more, please visit the Environmental Sustainability 
Overview  page on MSDresponsibility.com.
Employees
We strive to foster a positive and inclusive working 
environment for our employees by providing 
resources to improve their health and that of their 
families, opportunities to further their professional 
development, and ways to get more involved in 
the communities where they live. To learn more, 
please visit the Engaging Our Employees  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
As part of our mission to maintain a satisfying and 
productive work environment, we routinely survey 
all employees to learn about their perspectives on 
the business and on how we are responding to the 
needs of our global workforce. The Voice Survey, our 
company’s all-employee opinion survey, is our flagship 
employee feedback mechanism, and conducted on a 
biannual basis.Employee survey 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Response rate to Voice Survey NA 85% NA 86% NA
Engagement Index 1 (favorable response rate) NA 82% NA 83% NA
Culture Index 2 (favorable response rate) NA 72% NA 74% NA
NA: Not Administered; the Voice Survey is conducted on a biennial basis. 
1 The Engagement Index is a composite that averages scores measured from three aspects: “Engaged,” “Enabled” and “Energized.”
2  The Culture Index is a composite that averages scores measured from three aspects: “Customer Focus,” “Reputation and Trust” and “Innovation.”
Union membership1
201532%29% 29% 30% 30%
2016 2017 2018 2019
1Percentage of employees worldwide represented by an independent 
trade union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement 
(approximate)20        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices2019 U.S. Pricing Transparency Report 
We have a long history of making our medicines and 
vaccines accessible and affordable through responsible 
pricing practices and industry‐leading patient access 
programs. In 2017 we began disclosing information on 
our Corporate Responsibility website about the price of 
our medicines in the United States. This is our fourth 
consecutive report. It shows an average annual net price 
increase of 1.8 percent in 2019.
The report also shows that our annual average list price 
increases across our portfolio have gone down each year for the past five years. For example, in 2019, the 
average annual list price across our portfolio increased 
by 4.3 percent  —  the lowest increase since 2010  —  as 
compared with a 5.5 percent increase in 2018. In 2019, 
the company’s gross US sales were reduced by 43.7 
percent as a result of rebates, discounts and returns.
For more information, please visit our Transparency 
Disclosures , Materiality  and Affordability  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
U.S. product portfolio1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Change vs. prior year2
List price change (WAC)39.8% 9.6% 6.6% 5.5% 4.3%
Net price4,55.5% 5.5% (1.9%) 2.99% 1.8%
Average discount638.2% 40.9% 45.1% 44.3% 43.7%
Note: The amount of rebates, discounts and returns is estimated by the company and methodologies used may differ from methodologies used 
by other companies. This data is not audited and should be read in conjunction with the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission.
1  U.S. Product Portfolio includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed by the company, excluding partnered products. 
The product sales utilized in the analysis represent ~97% of the total US Product Portfolio in 2010 and approached 99.2% of coverage in 2019.
2  Annual percent change vs. prior year was calculated at a product level and weighted across the company’s US Product Portfolio. 
3  Represents the year‐over‐year change in the average list price or wholesale acquisition cost (WAC). 
4  Represents the year‐over‐year change in average net price, which is WAC less rebates, discounts and returns. 
5  In 2017, the average annual net price across our portfolio declined by 1.9 percent, reflecting specific in‐year dynamics, including the impact of loss 
of patent protection for three major medicines. 
6  Weighted average annual discount is calculated by dividing annual rebates, discounts and returns by annual gross sales.Suppliers and business partners
We strive to engage a diverse supplier base and 
to encourage responsible approaches on the part 
of suppliers regarding labor, employment, human 
rights, health and safety, ethics, diversity, and 
protection of the environment. To learn more, please 
visit the Sourcing & Supplier Relations  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
Trade and industry associations
We engage with stakeholders through membership 
in numerous organizations. Within these groups, 
we aim to inform relevant debates in ways that are 
constructive and that ultimately foster improved 
patient access to medicines and vaccines globally. 
To learn more, please visit the  Public Policy  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
SASB 240b.2   Percentage change in: (1) average list 
price and (2) average net price across 
U.S. product portfolio compared to 
previous year
SASB 240b.3   Percentage change in: 1) list price and 
2) net price of product with largest 
increase compared to previous year
As part of our materiality assessment, we queried 
stakeholders on the topics that they felt were the most 
important for our company to be addressing going 
forward. A list of these topics can be found in this 
report under GRI 102-47 on page 21 .21        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesReporting Practice
GRI 102-45  Entities included in financial 
statements  (Core)
All of our company’s global operations, including those 
of subsidiaries, are in scope unless stated otherwise. 
It includes activities at all facilities, owned and leased, 
over which we have operational control, unless 
otherwise noted.
The basis for reporting on other matters specific to the 
operations of our business  —  including joint ventures, 
subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations 
and other entities that can affect comparability from 
period to period  —  can be found in our 2019 Form 
10-K, which is filed with the United States Securities 
and Exchange Commission and is also available in the 
“Financial Reports” section of our corporate website.
There have been no significant changes from 
previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or 
measurement methods applied in this report. Data 
regarding employees who are part of underrepresented 
ethnic groups are provided for the U.S. only.
GRI 102-46  Defining report content and topic 
boundaries  (Core)
GRI 102-47 Material aspects included (Core)
In 2018, in response to external expectations for 
increased levels of transparency in our reporting, we 
leveraged a third-party’s business-intelligence tool 
that uses big data and artificial intelligence to conduct 
real-time materiality assessments. The materiality 
assessment process provided us an opportunity to 
listen and engage our many stakeholders, to improve 
as an organization, and provided insight into future 
trends, potential business risks and opportunities that 
influence our ability to create value. We have engaged with our Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) team to integrate our CR 
Materiality process with the ERM approach with the 
goal to further integrate corporate responsibility  
into the overall business strategy.
The materiality matrix shown below represents the 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that 
internal and external stakeholders have identified as having significant financial, operational or reputational 
impact on the company and illustrates where our 
company can have a significant impact on society and 
the environment.
All of the topics on the matrix below are within 
the boundaries of our responsibility. For more 
information, please visit the Materiality  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
Our prioritized ESG issues
Impor tance to  business successImpor tance to  stak eholdersOur Prioritized  ESG Issues
MEDIUM HIGH VER Y HIGHVER Y HIGH HIGH MEDIUM•     Access to  health
•     Ethics and compliance
•     Int ellectual pr oper ty
•     Pr oduct quality and saf ety
•     R esearch and development
•     R esponsible sales and mark eting
•     Diverse and inclusive workplace
•     P atient and car egiver 
engagement
•     R esponsible pricing•     Clinical trials
•     Data priv acy and inf ormation 
securit y
•     Occup ational he alth and saf ety•     Labor r elations
•     Climat e change
•     Governance
•     Pr oduct st ewar dship
•     Wa ter use and management•     Antimicr obial st ewar dship
•     Dise ase awar eness and 
education
•     Human rights
•     Supply chain r esponsibilit y
•     Tr ansp arency and r epor ting
•     W aste management
•     Biodiversity and land 
stewar dship
•     Bioethics
•     C ommunity suppor t and 
development
•     Ener gy eﬃcienc y•     Digital innov ation
•     C ount erfeit drugs
•     Employment pr actices
•     Ta lent re cruitment, re tention 
and development•     Employe e wellbeing22        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 102-48 Restatements  (Core)
Any restatements of information are included in 
the footnotes beneath the specific performance 
data tables.
GRI 102-49 Reporting changes  (Core)
There were not significant changes from previous 
reporting periods. However, we updated our materiality 
analysis this past year, which is outlined in GRI 102-47 
on page 21 .
GRI 102-50 Reporting period (Core)
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report (Core)
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle (Core)
GRI 102-53 Report contact  (Core)
We report on our corporate responsibility initiatives 
and progress annually. These disclosures cover the 
prior calendar year, from January 1 to December 31, 
2019. To ensure that readers have the most up-to-
date information, some of the narrative in the report 
is about decisions and initiatives that took place in the 
first half of 2020. Our last report was published in 2019.
We welcome your feedback on our Corporate 
Responsibility Report, as well as any other  
comments or questions you may have. You may  
contact us at the address below, or email us at 
corporate_responsibility@msd.com .
Office of Corporate Responsibility 
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, N.J. 07033 USA.
908-740-4000GRI 102-54  Claims of reporting in accordance 
with the GRI Standards  (Core)
GRI 102-55 GRI content index (Core)
Our company’s online corporate responsibility report 
was developed in alignment with the GRI Standards at 
the Core level. An index for all of our GRI disclosures, 
as well as those for the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB), can be found on page 86 .
GRI 102-56 External assurance  (Core)
WSP conducted an independent third-party review 
of our 2019 greenhouse gas and water inventories 
and provided limited assurance for the data that 
we submit to CDP and for inclusion the Corporate 
Responsibility Report. While we did not obtain external verification, we did  
speak with numerous external stakeholders, representing  
a variety of constituencies, about the company’s 
planned approach to reporting, our corporate 
responsibility materiality assessment process and the  
broad material areas upon which we planned to report.  
The company reflects these consultations, where 
feasible and appropriate, on our website, and will  
use the insights gained through these and continuing  
discussions with stakeholders to inform future reporting.
To view WSP’s limited assurance letter for our 
environmental data, please visit our Climate Change & 
Energy Use  page on MSDresponsibility.com.23        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesEconomic
Economic Performance
GRI 201-1  Direct economic value generated 
and distributed
We believe that corporate responsibility is critical 
to our business success and can provide us with 
new opportunities to create shared, or integrated, 
value — that is, addressing social issues through 
business solutions. At the most basic level of delivering 
integrated value, our principal economic contribution 
to society is made through the discovery, development, 
manufacturing and marketing of our products, which 
directly improve and maintain the health of individuals 
and communities around the world, helping them to 
lead more productive lives.
The effective income tax rates of 14.7 percent in 
2019 and 28.8 percent in 2018 reflect the impacts of 
acquisition and divestiture-related costs, restructuring 
costs and the beneficial impact of foreign earnings, 
including product mix.Financial information 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Sales $39.5B $39.8B $40.1B $42.3B $46.8B
Research and development expenses1$6.8B $10.3B $10.3B $9.8B $9.9B
Number of employees (approximate) 68,000 68,000 69,000 69,000 71,000
Number of stockholders of record 135,500 129,500 121,700 115,800 110,023
Annual cash dividend paid per share $1.81 $1.85 $1.89 $1.99 $2.26
Global tax expense as reported on income 
statement$0.94B $0.72B $4.1B $2.5B $1.7B 
1 Excludes restructuring and merger-related expenses.
For additional information about our business 
and economic performance, please see our Form 
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, on our 
corporate website.
Impact investing
One of our growing innovative approaches is impact 
investing, through which we are advancing sustainable 
global health solutions in line with our company’s overall 
objectives. Through impact investing, we are able to 
deploy financial resources in ways that may generate 
not only improved access to health care for underserved 
populations, but also financial returns and commercial 
opportunities — all while growing a sustainable global 
health ecosystem and attracting additional capital 
and partners.Impact investing is led by our Office of Social 
Business Innovation with guidance from the Impact 
Investing Committee. Established in 2019, the Impact 
Investing Committee is a cross-functional team of 
senior company leaders that reviews and approves 
new investments in line with established policies and 
guidelines and monitors the financial and social returns 
of the impact portfolio. We are also members of the 
Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN) , through which 
we can contribute to and benefit from the growing body 
of expertise in the impact investing ecosystem.
For more information, please visit our Social 
Investments  page on MSDresponsibility.com.24        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 201-2  Financial implications and other risks 
and opportunities due to climate 
change
SDG 13 Climate action
We believe that climate change could present risks to 
its business. Some of the potential impacts of climate 
change to its business include increased operating costs 
due to additional regulatory requirements, physical 
risks to the company’s facilities, water limitations and 
disruptions to its supply chain. These potential risks 
are integrated into the company’s business planning 
including investment in reducing energy, water use and 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
We have made it a priority to reduce our demand for 
energy and have established internal policies and 
practices focused on reducing energy use at all of 
our sites and minimizing greenhouse gases (GHG) 
generation throughout the company. By taking these 
steps, we are not only minimizing GHG emissions but 
also reducing our operating costs and mitigating the 
business impacts expected to be associated with future 
climate change requirements.
We have an established Energy Capital Fund of up 
to $12 million per year in order to transition to more 
energy-efficient technology and to better position the 
company to respond to energy demands in the future. 
The Energy Capital Fund supports the implementation 
of projects with a simple four-year payback averaged 
over the entire portfolio. 
Since 2015, our sites have completed more than 
70 projects through the Capital Fund. This has 
saved over $6 million per year, averaging a payback 
of only three years and avoiding the production of 
23,000 metric tons of carbon per year.
In 2019, we allocated approximately $6.4 million to 
energy projects. The completed projects will result 
in $2 million in annual savings and a reduction of more than 12,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide from 
our facilities. For 2020, we have over 60 projects 
in progress that, when completed, will reduce 
carbon dioxide emissions from our facilities by over 
36,000 metric tons.
For more information, please see the Climate Change & 
Energy Use  page on MSDresponsibility.com, as well as 
our response to the CDP Climate Change  questionnaire.
GRI 201-3 Benefit plan coverage
Worldwide, our company offers retirement benefits 
that are competitive with those of our peers and 
the general industry in each market we serve. In the 
U.S., for example, we offer a defined benefit pension 
plan as well as a 401(k) plan with company matching 
contributions. 
To assist in financial decision making, we offer all U.S. 
employees comprehensive financial education and 
guidance through Ernst & Young at no cost. U.S.-based 
employees who are at least age 55, and those who have 
at least 10 years of service after age 401, are eligible for 
subsidized medical benefits at retirement. 
Outside the U.S., we have more than 80 pension plans 
(including defined benefit, cash balance, and defined 
contribution plans) in over 40 countries. These plans 
often supplement government-sponsored social 
security pension benefits to improve employees’ 
financial security through added retirement income. 
While benefits may vary by region and country, we offer 
health, life and injury, disability and business travel 
insurance, along with retirement income benefits. In 
addition, in many countries, where legally permitted, 
including the U.S., we extend health care and various 
insurance benefits to employees’ domestic partners 
and their partners’ eligible dependent children.
For more information, please visit the Compensation 
& Benefits  page on our website, or our 2019 Form 10-K 
(pages 108–114).
1 For certain employees, service before 40 also counts.Indirect Economic Impacts
(CR material topic: Responsible pricing)
Management approach
We are working to bring our medicines and vaccines 
to more people around the world in ways that are as 
accessible and affordable as possible for the patients 
who need them.
While each individual situation varies based on factual 
circumstances and market dynamics, generally, 
we consider:
• Value provided to patients
• Value provided to health care systems 
• Unmet need
• Access
• R&D sustainability
• Competition
As part of our commitment to transparency, in 2017 
we started disclosing information on our Corporate 
Responsibility website about the price of medicines 
across our portfolio in the U.S. through our U.S. Pricing 
Transparency Report .
For more information, please see the Affordability  page 
on MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 203-1  Infrastructure investments and 
services supported
SDG 3 Good health and wellbeing
We support capacity building for health systems and 
care delivery where our support can make a meaningful 
difference. We provide this support in several ways, 
including through philanthropic social investments, key 
initiatives, and impact investing.25        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesPhilanthropic social investments 
Our social investments through philanthropy address 
underlying barriers to access to health and help advance 
health equity around the world. Our approach to 
these investments is guided by several key principles: 
addressing critical global health needs where we 
can have a meaningful impact; promoting health 
equity by addressing health disparities in vulnerable, 
underserved communities; collaborating with diverse 
partners to build healthier, stronger communities; and 
leveraging our range of resources (financial, product, 
and expertise) to achieve greater impact on population 
health outcomes. 
In addition to our targeted philanthropy, we have made 
substantial contributions to strengthening health 
systems through long-standing key initiatives that 
address significant gaps and barriers to health care 
access. Two prominent examples are MSD for Mothers 
and the MECTIZAN® Donation Program. 
Key initiatives
MSD for Mothers  is our company’s $500 million global 
initiative focused on strengthening health systems 
to sustain the delivery of high-quality maternity care 
services that benefit women and their communities. 
With our partners, we are improving health systems 
for women today and for the long term by advancing 
quality standards, helping make life-saving products 
available and generating evidence. 
The MECTIZAN Donation Program is the longest-
running disease-specific drug donation program and 
public-private partnership of its kind and is widely 
regarded as one of the most successful public-private 
health collaborations in the world. In addition to 
providing direct access for communities in need of 
treatment, the program has made significant impacts 
on health systems in some of the hardest to reach 
communities. The development of CDTI (community-
directed treatment with ivermectin) programs has 
trained community volunteers to distribute medicines 
and the system now is also used to distribute other 
health interventions. Impact investing
Impact investing is one of our core approaches to 
strengthening health systems. Through impact 
investing, we are able to deploy financial resources 
in ways that may generate not only improved access 
to health care for underserved populations, but also 
financial returns and commercial opportunities — all 
while growing a sustainable global health ecosystem 
and attracting additional capital and partners.
Addressing barriers to health 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Health care workers trained through major programs and 
partnerships (estimate)119,000 32,000 74,000 67,000 68,000
Annual investment in partnerships, programs and impact 
investments that support health care capacity-building and 
address underlying barriers to access to health (in millions)1$21 $28 $40 $37 $63
People reached through investment in partnerships, 
programs and impact investment that support health care 
capacity-building and address underlying barriers to access 
to health1 (estimate in millions)188 293 311 357 422
Percentage of investment in partnerships and programs to 
strengthen health care capacity and address barriers to 
access, that is allocated to impact evaluation2NR NR NR NR 10%
Investment in patient- and provider-education programs  
(in millions)$80 $80 $90 $115 $102
NR: Not reported
1  Represents investments by our Office of Social Business Innovation, including our Office of Corporate Responsibility, MSD for Mothers  and our 
company’s Foundation.   
2  Percentage calculated based on total investments in partnerships and programs to strengthen health care capacity and address barriers to 
access supported through our company’s Foundation.For more information, please visit the Social 
Investments , MSD for Mothers , Addressing Barriers to 
Health , and MECTIZAN Donation Program  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.26        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 203-2  I ndirect economic impacts
SASB 240a.1   A ccess to health care for priority 
diseases and in priority countries
SASB 240a.2   P roducts on WHO’s List of 
Prequalified Medicinal Products
SDG 3  G ood health and wellbeing
While the primary responsibility for managing a health 
system that ensures the health of its citizens resides with government, pharmaceutical companies have a 
substantial role to play in working with governments 
to ensure the health of their citizens. As we pursue our core mission of inventing, developing and delivering medicines and vaccines, we have an ethical duty to 
support governments in their efforts to protect the 
right to health by “doing no harm.” 
We do this in several ways, including:
• M onitoring and reporting on the safety of 
our products
• P roviding health care workers and consumers with 
important information on the benefits and side 
effects of our products
• S afeguarding the health, safety and privacy of 
patients involved in our clinical trialsIn addition, we are helping to improve access to new medicines and vaccines, address deep-rooted and multifaceted barriers to access, and, through 
partnerships and public policy, advocate for health care 
capacity strengthening in ways that are aligned with our business mission and core capabilities.
Our enterprise-wide approach to access is guided by our 
Access to Health Guiding Principles and is responsive 
to internationally recognized standards and priorities. 
Recognizing the significant access barriers that exist within sub-Saharan African countries in particular, we are also committed to a specific set of principles to 
guide our strategy in the region.
Strategies and actions to enable access are embedded 
across our company. Our Access to Health Guiding Principles span the areas of research and development, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization, and 
philanthropic investments. 
In low- and middle-income countries, in particular, we 
recognize access to and funding for health care can be limited. While major public health programs in these 
countries that focus on health priorities such as HIV/
AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and routine immunization are heavily subsidized by the government through international organizations and private funding, health insurance programs often do not exist or are limited. As a result, patients in these countries frequently must pay the price of medicines out of pocket, a particularly 
daunting ask for families living near or below the 
poverty line.
Therefore, we develop and support various sustainable 
strategies to improve access in low- and middle-income countries, including directing differential pricing 
to patient sub-segments, either directly through 
national or local programs or indirectly through third-party health care funding sources that demonstrate reasonable and secure product distribution to intended 
patient segments and subject to applicable legal 
requirements.27        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesAffordability 2019
Number of countries where dedicated affordability solutions have been initiated* 40
People reached globally through product donation and patient assistance programs and partnerships1 
(estimate)*404M
Number of patents filed in low-income countries, as defined by The World Bank in its country and 
lending groups classifications (annual)* 0
* New key performance indicators (KPI) reported in 2019 to support refreshed Access to Health Guiding Principles.
1 Estimate includes product donations through our company’s Office of Corporate Responsibility and patient assistance programs.
Grants and contributions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Grants and contributions  
(total cash, in-kind and product) $1.8B $2.2B $2.7B $2.8B $3.1B
Cash grants and contributions $133M $117M $94M $84M $82M
Product donations through U.S. Patient Assistance 
Programs$567M $798M $1.1B $1.2B $1.5B
Product donations for ex-U.S. programs and U.S. 
disaster relief1$1.1B $1.3B $1.5B $1.4B $1.5B
1  Includes our Medical Outreach Program (including U.S. disaster relief), the African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships (2015-2016 only), the 
MECTIZAN® Donation Program, and MSD division and subsidiary donations.
2  Includes valuation of volunteer time for only those employees who participated in the MSD Fellowship for Global Health program and our 
company’s Pro Bono Legal and other skills-based volunteer programs.28        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesIMPLANON NXT in FP2020 Markets1, 22019
Demographic impacts
Unintended pregnancies averted 6M
Live births averted 3M
Abortions averted 2.2M
Health impacts
Maternal deaths averted 14,000
Child deaths averted 111,000
Unsafe abortions averted 1.7M
1  The figures above are estimates, based on the full-service lifespan (2.7 years) impacts. These estimates are based on 2019 supplies (5,053,090 
units), using the Impact 2 v5 tool (2016) provided by Marie Stopes International (MSI).
2  Family-planning products intended for underserved segments of the world’s poorest countries — Family Planning 2020 countriesWomen’s health products IMPLANON NXT® EXLUTON® MARVELON 28®
Product is WHO prequalified Yes Yes Yes
FP2020 countries where product is registered1, 243 26 23
FP2020 countries in which we supplied product132 6 6
Women reached in FP2020 countries1, 35,246,000 4,921,000 1,816,000 
1 Family-planning products intended for underserved segments of the world’s poorest countries — Family Planning 2020 countries
2 There are additional unregulated markets where our products may be available that are not represented by these numbers.
3 Number represents potential number of women who could be reached based on number of products provided.Women’s health
We are committed to making our contraceptive 
products available to women around the world. We take 
a comprehensive approach to access that includes high-
quality manufacturing and supply chain management, 
extensive registration and WHO prequalification for 
a variety of our family-planning products, responsible 
commercialization that promotes training and capacity-
building, policy advocacy and community investment.
In developing countries that have high rates of maternal 
mortality and low rates of contraceptive prevalence, we 
have created a sustainable public-private partnership 
model, with first-quality products made available at 
access pricing to promote access to contraceptive 
health programs. These activities are focused primarily 
on sub-Saharan Africa and countries in Asia and Latin 
America with high unmet need.
The following metrics are for our family-planning 
products intended for underserved segments of the 
world’s poorest countries (defined as Family Planning 
2020 [FP2020] countries ) that are supplied through the 
public sector and social-marketing organizations.
For World Bank country classifications, please visit the 
World Bank website .
Though the numbers of product supplied are 
substantial, the impact of these supplies are even 
more significant. As an example, the potential impact 
of the volumes of IMPLANON NXT supplied to  
FP2020 countries in 2019 are reflected by the 
following table (data reflects estimates, based on  
the MSI Impact 2 v5 tool).29        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesProduct International Nonproprietary Name (INN) Date of prequalification
Family planning
MARVELON 28® Ethinylestradiol + Desogestrel October 2010
EXLUTON® Lynestrenol June 2010
IMPLANON NXT® Etonogestrel May 2013
Vaccines
MMR-II® Measles, Mumps, Rubella Virus Vaccine Live December 2008
ROTATEQ® Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent October 2008
GARDASIL ® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, 
Recombinant (including a VVM) May 2009
GARDASIL ® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, 
Recombinant (two-dose regimen to support its programmatic 
feasibility in developing countries) October 2014
GARDASIL ® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, 
Recombinant (compatibility for use in a controlled temperature 
chain to facilitate its administration in high-temperature, low-
cold-chain infrastructure areas of developing countries) May 2016
GARDASIL ®9 Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, 
Recombinant (including a two-dose-regimen variation) February 2018
VARIVAX® Varicella Virus Vaccine Live (first varicella vaccine to receive  
WHO prequalification) February 2018
ERVEBO® Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live                       November 2019
HIV/AIDS treatments
STOCRIN® Efavirenz (600mg tablet, Oral Solution 30mg)  
Efavirenz (50mg tablet, 200mg tablet)May 2006  
May  2008Product registration
In addition to having our medicines and vaccines 
approved by stringent regulatory authorities, when 
relevant to enhancing access in low- and middle-income 
countries, we also work to have certain medicines 
and vaccines prequalified through the World Health 
Organization (WHO) prequalification process.
WHO prequalification can facilitate product 
procurement by international procurement agencies. 
WHO’s prequalification program covers medicines 
for HIV, tuberculosis (TB), malaria, neglected tropical 
diseases, influenza, reproductive health and diarrhea, 
in addition to vaccines. In the absence of reliable 
national medicine authorities that can certify health 
care products meet required quality, safety and 
efficacy standards, stringent regulatory authority and 
WHO prequalification can serve as a basis for quality 
assurance for procurement by international agencies 
and national programs in lower-income countries.
We have made efforts to address the unique needs 
of low-income countries where the infrastructure 
and personnel to deliver immunization services can 
be severely limited. A specific emphasis has been 
on making improvements to products in a way 
that make them compatible to the Programmatic 
Suitability Criteria for vaccines candidates for WHO 
Prequalification (PSPQ). These features include vaccine 
vial monitors (VVMs), the acceptability of a two-dose 
regimen for HPV vaccines and use in controlled-
temperature-chain conditions.
In order to make our products available to the people 
who need them throughout the world, we registered 
97 products and devices in 2019. The majority of these 
products were registered in low- and middle-income 
countries in the Asia-Pacific, Central and Eastern 
Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Americas regions.
In November 2019, ERVEBO, our Live Ebola Zaire 
Vaccine, was prequalified by the WHO. ERVEBO’s 
prequalification was the fastest vaccine prequalification 
process ever conducted by WHO and a critical step 
in providing access to our vaccine to individuals in 
countries most at risk of Ebola outbreaks.Below is a list of products that have been prequalified 
by WHO as of April 15, 2020.30        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesMedicine Assistance Tool
As a demonstration of our commitment to helping 
low-income, uninsured patients gain access to our 
medicines and adult vaccines, we also participate in 
PhRMA’s Medicine Assistance Tool (MAT) , formerly 
known as the Partnership for Prescription Assistance 
(PPA). MAT is a search engine designed to help 
patients, caregivers and health care providers learn 
more about access resources available through the 
various biopharmaceutical industry programs.
MAT helps eligible patients get free or nearly free 
brand name medicines through a single website that 
provides information for and access to more than 
500 public and private patient assistance programs, 
including approximately 200 programs offered by 
biopharmaceutical companies. To date, this tool has 
helped millions of Americans get free or reduced-cost 
prescription medicines.
For more information, please visit our Women’s 
Health , Product Registration , U.S. Patient Assistance 
Programs , Vaccines , HIV/AIDS  and Product Pricing  
pages on MSDresponsibility.com.Patient assistance programs summary 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Patients utilizing our U.S. Patient Assistance Programs1293,000 306,000 244,000 233,000 239,000
30-day prescriptions filled 1.6M 1.7M 2.1M 2.1M 2.2M
1 Totals represent 2015–2019 volumes of our U.S. Patient Assistance Program.
GRI 205: Anticorruption
(CR material topic: Ethics and compliance)
Management approach
As part of our long-standing commitment to ethics 
and good corporate citizenship, we adopt policies and 
procedures that facilitate compliance with the laws and 
regulations that govern the way we market and sell our 
medicines, vaccines and other products.Product registration 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
New product and device registrations (annual) 1,2,3156 143 143 124 97
Products submitted that have achieved WHO 
prequalification (cumulative) 411 11 13 13 13 
Number of patent applications filed in low-income 
countries5NR NR NR NR 0
NR: Not reported
1 Data include new products and new indications.
2 For information on new registrations by region, visit our Clinical Research section.
3 Data for all years have been updated based on a tracking system upgrade that corrected miscounts in prior years.
4 CRIXIVAN® (indinavir sulfate) was removed from our product list in 2019 and is no longer included in the total number of products that have achieved WHO. 
5 Countries classified as low-income countries in the 2019 World Bank Country and Lending Group classifications.
We have a well-established global ethics and compliance 
program that is consistent with the International 
Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & 
Associations (IFPMA)  Code of Practice requirements, 
as well as with other applicable regional or country 
industry codes of conduct, including those issued by 
the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of 
America (PhRMA)  and the European Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) .31        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesOur company’s Board of Directors and senior 
management, including the Chief Ethics and 
Compliance Officer and members of the Corporate 
Compliance Committee , provide the foundational 
elements of leadership, accountability and structure 
to oversee the company’s global ethics and 
compliance program.
The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer reports 
directly to our company’s CEO and provides regular 
updates to the Audit Committee  of the Board of 
Directors on key indicators of ethical culture. This 
reporting structure supports open communications 
with senior leadership regarding important 
developments that relate to ethics and compliance.
Our company’s robust anti-bribery/anticorruption 
program and corporate prevention of bribery and 
corruption policy give our employees the awareness 
and knowledge to comply with applicable laws and 
regulations, and to understand that the company will 
not tolerate any act of impropriety. Our activities must 
comply with company policies as well as applicable laws, 
including the laws of the U.S. and other countries in 
which we do business.
Our program prohibits the offer, promise or giving of 
any payment or benefit at any time to an individual 
or entity for the purpose of improperly influencing 
decisions or actions with respect to our business. 
This policy applies to direct engagements (e.g., those 
conducted by our company) as well as to indirect 
engagements (e.g., those managed through a third-
party intermediary or partner).
We conduct anti-bribery/anticorruption training 
across the company. Supplemental training is also 
provided for employees who engage with non-U.S. 
government officials.Office of Ethics
Our company’s Office of Ethics was established over 
20 years ago to protect and promote the company’s 
values and standards on a global basis by developing 
and overseeing initiatives designed to deter illegal, 
unethical and improper behavior related to the 
company’s business. The Office of Ethics is responsible 
for ensuring that employees are aware of and trained on 
the Code of Conduct  and company policies.
Throughout 2018 and 2019, in alignment with our 
priority to protect and enhance our company’s 
reputation through safe, ethical and compliant 
behaviors, the Office of Ethics added three Regional 
Ethics Officers to its team and established a network 
of site-based volunteer Ethics Ambassadors outside of 
the United States. 
Additionally, the Office of Ethics implemented an 
improved reporting tool operated by an independent 
third party. The tool, named Speak Up (formerly 
theadviceline.com), is available at MSDethics.com , 
can be accessed 24/7, and allows employees to raise 
concerns or ask questions confidentially (where 
permitted by law) in their preferred language via 
phone or internet.
GRI 205-2  Communications and training on 
anticorruption
The Office of Ethics and the Office of Global 
Investigations are responsible for oversight of the 
global processes for managing investigations into 
potential ethics and compliance concerns to ensure 
consistent and timely resolution of potential concerns 
and implementation of remediation actions.
It is our company policy to maintain a work environment 
where all employees are expected to report concerns 
that are potentially inconsistent with the company’s Code of Conduct  and policies. Our company maintains 
and communicates regularly to employees about 
the multiple channels (i.e., management, Human 
Resources, Compliance, Legal, Speak Up tool at 
MSDethics.com ) that are available. Employees are 
encouraged, prepared and empowered to raise 
concerns. 
We are committed to maintaining a process for 
escalation and investigation of potential compliance-
related concerns. The process is designed to ensure 
that we promptly investigate all reports of behavior 
that violate our company’s policies, values or standards 
and take appropriate remedial action in response to 
such concerns.
When we substantiate allegations of ethical 
misconduct, we take appropriate disciplinary actions 
to ensure that those who were responsible are held 
accountable.
Disciplinary actions can include dismissal from the 
company, issuance of final written warning letters or 
financial penalties. In addition, we take appropriate 
steps to address any needed improvements in 
organizational and process controls.
Retaliation against employees who report such 
concerns is a violation of corporate policy and will not be 
tolerated. 
We also maintain a policy that will give our company 
the discretion to recoup incentive payments made to 
employees in certain instances. This policy will apply 
when a senior leader engages in misconduct or fails 
to reasonably supervise an employee who engages in 
misconduct that results in a material policy violation 
relating to the research, development, manufacturing, 
sales or marketing of company products where 
the policy violation causes significant financial or 
reputational harm to the company.32        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesAnnual ethics and policy certification
An important component of our corporate ethics and 
compliance program is our annual ethics and policy 
certification. The annual review process requires 
selected company employees to certify adherence to 
corporate policies on preventing bribery and corruption, 
antitrust-law compliance, and conflict of interest and 
insider trading. These employees are also expected to 
regulate their outside activities to avoid any conflicts 
of interest, and to certify, in writing, whether actual or 
potential conflicts of interest exist.
Where potential conflicts are identified, the Office 
of Ethics will work with management to take actions 
to mitigate the potential conflict. In addition, all 
U.S.-based employees must certify compliance with 
our corporate policy on the effects of exclusions, 
debarments, suspensions and health care-related 
criminal convictions, reporting and screening.
Ethics and compliance training is an important part of 
creating a strong culture, and our program is reflective 
of the Code of Conduct and corporate policies tailored 
to meet the needs of different groups of employees 
within the organization. 
Training on our Code of Conduct is designed as an 
annual training series that is assigned to all employees 
worldwide. All employees are required to complete the 
assigned ethics and compliance courses. The series 
is focused on our core values: Patients First, Ethics 
& Integrity, Respect for People, and Innovation & 
Scientific Excellence.
The 2019 series consisted of three modules including 
Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Anticorruption, and 
Social Media.
Ethics and compliance content is also integrated into 
business and leadership development courses for 
managers and senior leaders on an ongoing basis. Ethics 
and integrity are key leadership competencies that are 
assessed as part of annual performance reviews and 
play an integral role in our decisions about employee 
advancement within the company.Ethics and conflicts of interest 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Employees trained on the Code of Conduct 
training series99% 100% 100% 99% 99%
Employees who responded to the disclosure 
statement on the Conflicts of Interest form100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
For more information, please visit the Code of 
Conduct , Compliance , and Engaging With Health Care 
Professionals  pages on MSDresponsibility.com.
Continuing Medical Education (CME) and 
Continuing Education (CE) programs
Our CME/CE Grant Program supports independent 
educational programs whose purpose is to maintain, 
develop or enhance the knowledge, skills and/or 
professional performance that health care professionals 
rely on to provide services for patients, the public or 
the profession. We are committed to ensuring that our 
CME/CE programs are educational and not promotional. 
Through them, we seek to increase physicians’ 
knowledge about the latest scientific data and health 
care topics, thereby improving patient care.
The environment in which we sponsor or support 
educational programs worldwide is complex, governed 
by a multitude of laws, regulations and medical or 
industry association guidelines. We are committed to 
honoring them in the countries in which we operate.
CME programs that we support or sponsor are 
governed by an internal policy that is aligned with 
the appropriate standards and regulations to which 
the programs are held including, among other things, 
independence and financial disclosure.U.S. Medical Forums
We deliver balanced medical and scientific information 
to health care professionals within the U.S. through 
our company’s Medical Forums, which are conducted 
by external speakers. Speakers are selected on the 
basis of their expertise in the relevant subject matter. 
By attending one of our Medical Forums, health care 
professionals participate in interactive learning on 
therapeutic and health care industry topics. The goal 
of these interactions is to help attendees achieve 
improved medical results for their patients.
With our strict standards for conducting these 
Medical Forums, we comply with the PhRMA Code 
on Interactions with Health Care Professionals  as 
well as with U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) regulations, which assure that any product 
presentation is appropriately balanced with information 
regarding both the product’s potential benefits and its 
risks, and is consistent with approved product labeling.33        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 206:  
Anti-Competitive Behavior
(CR material topic: Responsible sales and marketing)
Management approach
We adhere to strict ethical sales and marketing 
practices in all our businesses, whether 
pharmaceuticals, vaccines or animal health.
One of the ways we provide product information is 
by maintaining informative and ethical professional 
relationships with health care providers.
Our interactions with providers, other customers and 
consumers are governed by laws and regulations, and 
by our long-standing global Code of Conduct , Our Values 
& Standards . We enforce these external and internal 
standards through our ethics and compliance program.
We recognize that both our reputation for 
integrity and the trust that our stakeholders 
place in us are dependent on our ethical practices. 
Consequently, we want to make certain that the 
ways in which we market and sell our products to our 
customers — health care professionals, health insurers 
and governments — include accurate, balanced and 
useful information so that prescribers can make the 
best decisions for their patients.
Our high ethical sales and marketing standards require 
that scientific information is the predominant factor 
in prescribing decisions, reinforcing our reputation for 
providing high-quality products and for contributing to 
improvements in public health.
Our professional sales representatives and other 
employees inform our customers about our medicines 
and vaccines and their appropriate use. To respond 
to increasing requests for on-demand information, 
in certain countries we offer resources and product 
information to health care providers on company 
websites and other digital platforms.In some countries, where permitted by law, we may 
directly inform patients and other consumers about 
diseases and available treatments that they may wish 
to discuss with their doctors. We believe direct-to-
consumer advertising contributes to greater awareness 
about conditions and diseases, which can benefit 
public health by increasing the number of patients 
appropriately diagnosed and treated.
Fostering ethical practices
We believe that our marketing, sales and advertising 
activities make an important contribution to medicine 
by informing our customers of treatment options based 
on the most recent scientific information and findings 
from rigorous clinical studies.
Our sales and marketing practices are governed by 
external laws and regulations and industry codes of 
conduct, and by our own global Code of Conduct ,  
our corporate policies and procedures, and our ethics 
and compliance program .
Our ethics and compliance program seeks to address 
and prevent inappropriate practices, and we evaluate 
our policies and practices as appropriate. Our practices 
are monitored, and compliance is enforced to ensure 
that our interactions with customers and consumers 
help inform their decisions accurately and in a balanced 
manner. We believe that compliance with all policies 
governing scientific, business and promotion-related 
activities, in letter and spirit, is a corporate and 
individual responsibility of the highest order. Through 
our ethical behavior, we strive to ensure that scientific 
information predominates in prescribing decisions.
Our Guiding Principles for Ethical Business Practices 
Involving the Medical and Scientific Community include 
the following:
• We provide current, accurate and balanced 
information about our products; we share sound 
scientific and educational information; and we 
support medical research and education• Our employees are prohibited from offering health 
care professionals items of personal benefit, such as 
tickets to sporting events, support for office social 
events or gift certificates for stores or golf outings. 
Where permitted, we may occasionally provide health 
care professionals with approved educational items 
that are not of substantial monetary value and that 
are intended primarily for educational purposes. Such 
materials may include medical textbooks, medical 
journals and anatomical models.
• Our employees and others speaking on behalf of 
the company may give presentations specifically 
designed to provide the type of information that 
practicing health care professionals have indicated 
is needed and most useful in the treatment of their 
patients, in accordance with U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) regulations and the regulations 
of other countries in which the presentations or 
discussions are taking place
• A company representative may offer occasional 
modest meals to health care professionals in 
connection with an informational presentation; 
however, such meals must be in accordance with local 
codes and regulations
For more information, please visit the Sales & 
Marketing Practices page on MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 206-1  Anti-competitive behavior
As a condition of employment, all of our sales and 
marketing employees are required to be certified 
periodically on sales and marketing practices.
In the U.S., for example, employees who do not 
satisfactorily meet these training requirements may 
not conduct specific activities on their own and must 
repeat the training until they meet the requirements.
All new employees receive training and testing and 
must be certified on relevant policies and our company’s 
ethical operating standards. And although many of 34        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indicesour employees who market and sell our medicines and 
vaccines have advanced scientific or medical degrees 
and backgrounds, all of our sales representatives must 
complete general sales and product training. Training 
is specific to the country where an employee is based 
and covers the scope of the employee’s responsibilities 
in ensuring compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations.
Sales representatives are trained on anti-bribery 
and anticorruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. Sales 
representatives in the U.S. are also required to 
understand, among other things, their responsibilities 
under the Anti-Kickback Statute, the U.S. Prescription 
Drug Marketing Act, and all applicable FDA promotional 
regulations.
After this initial training, we require periodic training 
aimed at recertifying employees on relevant policies 
and practices in accordance with local and functional 
requirements.
We stress that if our employees are unsure about  
the appropriateness of the conduct that they ask  
for help. There are several places employees can  
turn for assistance. The first option is to talk with  
their manager. If they do not feel comfortable  
with that course of action, the other resources they 
may contact are:
• Divisional Compliance Departments
• Office of Ethics
• Privacy Office
• Office of General Counsel
• Human Resources Department
• MSDethics.comIn addition to mandatory training on our Code of 
Conduct, employees receive training on other levels of 
business practice and compliance, according to their 
roles and responsibilities. We evaluate and update the 
content for all marketing and sales training periodically 
to ensure that it remains relevant and current.
Industry codes of conduct
Our sales representatives must provide truthful, 
non-misleading information in their interactions 
with the medical and scientific community. Our 
compliance program is consistent with applicable laws 
and regulations, and is aligned with the International 
Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & 
Associations (IFPMA) Code of Pharmaceutical 
Marketing Practices , as well as with regional and 
country industry codes, such as the Pharmaceutical 
Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) 
Code  and the Compliance Program Guidance for 
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers , published by the Office 
of the Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services. 
The pharmaceutical industry as a whole recognized 
that more needed to be done to address concerns 
raised by public officials and stakeholders in the health 
care community. Self-regulating industry codes of 
Sales and marketing 2015 2016 2017 2019 2019
Number of warning letters or untitled letters 
from OPDP1 or APLB2 in the U.S.0 0 0 0 0
1  OPDP: Since September 2011, the Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and Communication (DDMAC) is now the Office of Prescription Drug 
Promotion (OPDP).
2 APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch (APLB) of the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.conduct such as the IFPMA, the European Federation 
of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) 
and PhRMA codes set the standards that govern the 
industry’s sales and marketing practices and ensure 
that companies have adequate policies and procedures 
in place to comply with the codes.
Among PhRMA’s Code on the Interactions with 
Healthcare Professionals  (the Code) key components 
is an annual requirement for company CEOs and Chief 
Compliance Officers to certify personally that they 
have processes in place that foster compliance with the 
Code. The Code also encourages companies to obtain 
third-party verification of their compliance policies and 
procedures. We complete PhRMA Code certification 
every year in compliance with the Code.
Other requirements of the Code have previously 
been incorporated into our already strong ethical 
business practices. For example, our company follows 
the standards for commercial support of continuing 
medical education established by the Accreditation 
Council for Continuing Medical Education, and our 
ethics and compliance program requires that company 
representatives be periodically assessed to make 
sure they comply with relevant company policies and 
standards of conduct.35        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesDirect-to-consumer (DTC) advertising
We believe that direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising 
can be an important and helpful way to inform patients 
about diseases that may be relevant to them and about 
therapeutic options they may want to discuss with their 
physicians.
Our company has a long-standing policy of voluntarily 
submitting new U.S.-based DTC advertising campaigns 
to the FDA for its review and comment before running 
them. Under our DTC policies and practices, the 
information provided in our DTC advertising must:
• Contain appropriate product benefit and risk 
information
• Be appropriately balanced, consistent with FDA 
regulations, and use appropriate “taste and tone”
• Be approved by our company’s Promotion Review 
Team, a governing body consisting of a team of 
reviewers (including the job owner, an attorney, 
a physician, a representative from the Office of 
Promotion and Advertising Review, and a product 
scientific specialist) who ensure that promotional 
material is clinically and scientifically accurate, 
compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and 
compliant with company policy
We try to help consumers achieve better health 
outcomes by delivering accurate, relevant and 
understandable information on disease prevention, 
identification and potential treatment. To remain true 
to this goal, we adhere to the letter and spirit of U.S. 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and 
guidelines governing DTC promotion, meet or exceed 
all Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of 
America (PhRMA) guidelines on DTC advertising , and 
follow a comprehensive set of internal policies and 
practices when engaging in DTC advertising within 
the U.S.We adhere to updated 2019 PhRMA guidelines that all 
DTC television advertising that identifies a medicine 
by name should include direction as to where patients 
can find information about the cost of the medicine, 
such as a company-developed website, including the list 
price and average, estimated, or typical patient out-of-
pocket costs, or other context about the potential  
cost of the medicine. In addition, we include information 
on our U.S. Patient Assistance Program  in all new  
U.S.-based DTC print and television advertisements for 
eligible products.
We inform and educate health care professionals about 
our products before we advertise them to consumers. 
We implement comprehensive programs to educate 
physicians and other prescribers about a new product 
for an appropriate period of time before starting 
product-specific DTC broadcast advertising in the U.S.
These principles and our practices are reflected in the 
PhRMA Guiding Principles on Direct-to-Consumer 
Advertisements about Prescription Medicines .
For more information, please visit the  Sales & 
Marketing Practices  and Direct-to-Consumer 
Advertising  pages on MSDresponsibility.com.36        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesPackaging
We have adopted “Design for Environment” guidelines 
that help our engineers design new product packages 
that are better for the environment by minimizing 
package sizes and using more environmentally friendly 
materials, where possible.
We have set a target to review all of our new human 
health packaging designs prior to launch to understand 
and minimize environmental impacts as much as 
possible, while still providing adequate protection of 
our products. 
To help us evaluate the differences in environmental 
impacts between packaging options, we use a simplified 
life-cycle assessment (LCA) tool that provides 
information on the environmental impacts generated 
by the materials used in our packaging. The tool helps 
us to make informed decisions as to which materials are 
better for the environment.
Solvent use
Solvents play a key role in the manufacturing of our 
products, as well as in equipment cleaning. Because 
of their significance to our business and the life-
cycle impact they represent, we focus on designing 
our processes to minimize or avoid their use where 
practical. Where we do use solvents, we maximize 
efficiency, and control them in our emissions,  
effluents and waste.
We have an active Green & Sustainable Science  
program to design our new processes using fewer 
solvents and other hazardous materials, and to reuse 
and recycle more of the solvents we do use. Environmental
GRI 301: Materials
The materials we use for our finished products serve 
a range of important purposes; the foremost purpose 
is to protect the purity, efficacy and physical integrity 
of the product. Packaging also provides the customer 
with information and convenience, the pharmacist or 
provider with accurate dispensing information at the 
point of purchase, and our business with marketing 
value. For some products, packaging also serves safety 
functions such as child resistance and tampering 
evidence. 
In addition to these critical functions that packaging 
must perform, there is the consideration of the 
environmental impact of the materials we use. After it 
has served its critical function(s), packaging becomes 
our customer’s waste, and therefore we must take this 
into account in our designs.
We continue to monitor global trends around material 
use such as the New Plastics Economy, and around how 
we might incorporate “circular economy” concepts into 
the critical functions of packaging for pharmaceuticals. 
It is unclear how these trends will ultimately impact 
our mission to deliver medicines, however, these are 
important signals of a changing external approach to 
the use and recovery of specific materials like fiber-
based products, plastics such as PVC, metals and 
others. 
Governance
Packaging and design is managed by the Global 
Pharmaceutical Commercialization area of the company 
and with oversight from the Environmental Health and 
Safety Council.For cleaning our manufacturing equipment, we use 
water-based methods where they are as effective as 
solvents. At each of our manufacturing sites, we have 
engineers who are responsible for identifying and 
driving process-improvement projects. When it is not 
practical to reuse regenerated solvents in our own 
production processes, we either work with suppliers 
who recover the spent solvents for resale to other 
industries, or safely burn them as a source of energy. 
Any used solvents that leave our site as hazardous 
waste are managed at offsite facilities that are on our 
list of approved waste management sites.
Chemical management
A comprehensive and effective chemical management 
program is critical to the safety and protection of our 
employees, the communities in which we operate and 
the environment.
We have put procedures, systems and processes in 
place to manage the approval, procurement, inventory, 
receipt, transfer, storage, use and disposal of chemicals 
at all of our sites. We provide our employees and others 
with information about the identities and potential 
hazards of the chemicals in our operations and final 
products through proper labeling of chemicals and the 
creation of safety data sheets.
For more information, please visit the Materials 
& Packaging , Waste Management , Product 
Stewardship , Pharmaceuticals in the Environment  and 
Nanotechnology  pages on MSDresponsibility.com.Goal Progress Indicator
Materials and packaging
100 percent of the packaging for our new human health products 
will be reviewed for environmental impact and improvement. 100% of products  
launched in 2019Achieved37        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 302: Energy
As a global biopharmaceutical company, we recognize 
the important role we play in identifying, adapting and 
responding to the public health risks associated with 
climate change, such as threats to clean air and water, 
insufficient food supplies and the spread of disease. We 
believe our long-standing support of stronger health 
systems in underserved areas is even more important 
given the evidence that certain disease patterns are 
associated with changing climate conditions.
Our Energy Management Standard requires responsible 
and efficient energy management and associated 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. 
Energy demand reduction and efficiency will always 
be part of our energy management strategy and will 
positively impact our efforts to reduce our global 
footprint. 
Utilization of renewable energy is a growing 
expectation of industry. The advance in renewables 
technology, incentives through legislation and 
comparison with conventional technology and fuel 
prices have grown the industry and created a robust 
renewable energy market. 
Programs and initiatives
We have made it a priority to reduce our demand for 
energy and have established internal policies and 
practices focused on reducing energy use at all our 
sites, and minimizing GHG generation throughout 
the company. By taking these steps, we are not only 
minimizing GHG emissions, but also reducing our 
operating costs and mitigating the business impacts 
expected to be associated with future climate change 
requirements.
Energy-efficiency and demand-reduction projects 
will continue to contribute to lowering our energy 
consumption and reducing our direct GHG emissions. In addition, we will continue to optimize systems, 
consolidate excess facility space when possible, shift 
power supplies to combined heat and power systems 
and utilize renewable energy sources.
Our company has launched initiatives around the 
world to improve energy use, reduce GHG emissions 
from our operations and understand our supply chain-
related impacts.
Our Energy Center of Excellence (CoE) identifies, shares 
and standardizes best practices, and prioritizes the 
funding of energy projects to reduce energy use across 
the company. Our manufacturing facilities, warehouses, 
laboratories, major offices and vehicle fleet are the 
primary targets of our energy-demand-reduction 
programs, as they represent the majority of our energy 
consumption.
We have an established Energy Capital Fund of up 
to $12 million per year in order to transition to more 
energy-efficient technology and to better position the 
company to respond to energy demands in the future. 
The Energy Capital Fund supports the implementation 
of projects with a simple four-year payback averaged 
over the entire portfolio.
• Since 2015, our sites have completed more than 
70 projects through the Capital Fund. This has 
saved over $6 million per year, averaging a payback 
of only three years and avoiding the production of 
23,000 metric tons of carbon per year.
• In 2019, we allocated approximately $6.4 million to 
energy projects. The completed projects will result  
in $2 million in annual savings and a reduction of more 
than 12,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide from  
our facilities.
• For 2020, we have over 60 projects in progress, that 
when completed will reduce carbon dioxide emissions 
from our facilities by over 36,000 metric tonsFacilities
We continuously strive to make our facilities energy-
efficient. Our Energy CoE has created an “energy 
road map” to help our facilities reduce energy demand 
and associated GHG emissions. The energy road 
map’s foundation includes large-scale metering and 
monitoring to assess and identify opportunities 
for continuous improvement. As facility energy 
management programs mature, energy savings are 
sought by improving the reliability of the equipment, 
by the efficient operation of utility systems and by 
building efficiencies into systems design.
All our new facilities are required to comply with our 
Energy Design Guide and Energy Conservation Planner. 
If we purchase a facility, it is evaluated for energy 
efficiency and assessed against our energy scorecard as 
part of its integration into our company.
All new laboratories, offices and major renovations 
are built following cost-effective and energy-efficient 
practices and are designed to meet Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver 
certification at a minimum or the comparable 
country standard.
• Our China Head Office is certified as LEED Gold
• Our new South San Francisco, CA office was certified 
LEED Gold in 2020 and is pursuing WELL Building 
Standard (WELL) certification
• An operations support facility at our facility in 
Durham, North Carolina is certified as LEED Silver
• Our lab in Carlow, Ireland received both LEED Gold 
and Excellence in Energy Efficiency Design (EXEED) 
certification in 2019
• Development labs in both New Jersey and 
Pennsylvania are pursuing LEED Silver certification38        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesWe require our facilities to have a plan to manage their 
energy use.
• Four sites in Ireland, three sites in Germany, one 
site in Spain and one site in the UK maintained 
their certification of ISO50001:2018 for energy 
management to comply with the EU Energy 
Efficiency Directive audit requirements; and a fourth 
German site transitioned successfully to the ISO 
certification
• The EU Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) Phase 
Two compliance assessment was completed for all 
entities in the EU Region and all qualifying sites are 
undertaking energy audits to ensure compliance
• Our Energy CoE has provided tools for facility 
managers to identify opportunities to reduce energy 
use and eliminate waste. These tools include facility-
wide, three-day Energy Treasure Hunts, half-day 
utility-system assessments (Energy Kaizens), and 
online Energy Treasure Hunts, which allow for best-
practice sharing. 
• All our employees have access to a training curriculum 
that allows them to learn more about energy 
management and energy systems. Through this 
program, employees can earn an Energy Manager 
Certification. Site energy managers from more than 
70 of our facilities are expected to complete the basic 
energy efficiency training curriculum.
Work practices and recognition
Our company takes advantage of technological 
advances to save energy, time and money while also 
reducing emissions. The strategies we employ include:
• Site energy use is tracked monthly by our Energy 
CoE through a centralized system. A global energy 
scorecard is issued monthly, and sites receive a 
letter grade based on an internal assessment of their 
energy intensity and performance. Our companywide 
average score has consistently been a top-level  
grade of “A-.”• A rollout of Energy Utility Analytics Technology 
for multiple sites that will enable continuous 
commissioning, energy efficiency improvements and 
reliability of assets
• We developed an energy management strategy that 
seeks to achieve energy savings through continuous 
improvement, reliability, operations and design 
• A rail-travel option is included in our online business-
travel booking tool to make it easier to travel by 
train when appropriate. Train travel has a smaller 
carbon footprint than traveling by either airplane or 
personal vehicle.
We worked with our three largest long-range freight 
carriers and even though the amount of material 
shipped by weight increased in 2019 vs. 2018, our 
transportation-related GHG emissions decreased by 
shifting away from air freight to ocean and overland 
ground freight whenever practical. 
In 2019, our company awarded an “Energy Project of 
the Quarter” and showcased each project throughout 
our company in our quarterly “Eco Smart” newsletter. 
These projects were also featured in our internal 
sustainability communication sites. The winning 
projects included:
• Overdelivered on energy reduction commitments at a 
site in the Netherlands, through a series of initiatives 
such as addressing lighting, better management 
and utilization of more efficient air handlers and 
insulation upgrades
• Acknowledgement of the start-up of our first large 
scale Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA) 
facility in Texas 
• The startup of a new quality lab and certification as 
LEED Gold and EXEED at a site in Ireland
• Started the “Green by Choice” program at a site in the 
Netherlands to create a hands-on culture in areas of 
energy, water and waste reductionsRenewable energy
Our company has set bold renewable energy targets. 
We have committed to sourcing 100 percent of our 
purchased electricity from renewable energy sources 
by 2040, with an interim goal of 50 percent by 
2025.1 Photovoltaic arrays, wind turbines and other 
renewable-energy installations avoid emissions, help 
reduce energy-demand peaks and postpone or preclude 
adding new power plants.
We continually analyze our sites to look for 
opportunities for new onsite installations, power-
purchase contracts, vendor-supplied renewable energy 
through the electrical grid and VPPA projects.
Several sites have incorporated renewable energy 
installations over the past several years. In 2019, sites 
in Italy, Germany and South Africa installed new solar 
arrays or expanded their on-site solar capacity. In 
September 2019, one of our manufacturing sites in 
Virginia signed an agreement to utilize renewables for 
100 percent of their purchased electricity. 
In January 2018, our company signed a VPPA with  
Invenergy Wind Development LLC that adds 
60 megawatts (MW) of renewable energy to the 
Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) market 
and provides us with the associated renewable energy 
credits. This new wind asset, Santa Rita East, will 
reduce our company’s greenhouse gas emissions by 
more than 100,000 metric tons per year over the life 
of the 12-year agreement. This agreement will help us 
reach approximately 50 percent of our 2025 goal and 
25 percent of our 2040 goal. The Santa Rita East wind 
farm came on-line in July 2019.
1  We have defined “purchased electricity” as electricity sourced from 
external suppliers as well as renewable electricity that was generated 
and utilized onsite where we retained the renewable attributes or 
where we have obtained renewable attributes through contract.39        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesVehicle fleet
Approximately nine percent of our total Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions are associated with our vehicle fleet.  
We calculate our fleet’s GHG emissions based on 
estimated fuel economy and actual total miles driven.
• In an ongoing effort to improve fuel efficiency, 
we have converted our U.S. sales fleet from cars 
with six-cylinder engines to cars with four-cylinder 
engines, replaced eight-cylinder-engine trucks 
with six-cylinder-engine trucks, and introduced 
an all-wheel-drive (AWD) sedan option to replace 
AWD sport utility vehicles. This has resulted in fuel 
efficiency improvements from an average of 22 miles 
per gallon (mpg) in 2008 to an average of 27 mpg 
in 2019.
• 40 percent of the U.S. fleet are now partial zero 
emission vehicles (PZEV)
• Our European fleet continued to convert to the use 
of more fuel-efficient vehicles and we conducted a 
plug-in hybrid pilot in the UK
• Over 50 percent of the vehicles being utilized in Japan 
are hybrids and we are looking to expand their use in 
other Asia/Pacific markets where the infrastructure 
is supported to “charge” the vehicles
• In 2019 in Mexico, we have implemented three-
cylinder vehicles until hybrids become more available. 
Our fleet in Mexico consists of 17 percent three-
cylinder vehicles and five percent hybrids.Total energy use 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Total energy use (GJ) 21,303,600 20,936,400 19,370,300 19,258,500 18,577,900  
Note: GHG figures have been changed from our 2018/2019 report, due to a collection methodology update since our last report.
Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 
energy use (% of total)12015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Natural gas (Scope 1) 60% 61% 59% 62% 62%
Fleet fuel (Scope 1) 11% 12% 12% 10% 9%
Fuel oil (Scope 1) 2% 2% 2% 2% 2%
Bio-Fuel (Scope 1) 0.3% 0.4% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6%
Renewable energy generated and 
used onsite (Scope 1)20.01% 0.04% 0.04% 0.05% 0.05%
Spent solvents (Scope 1) 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Coal (Scope 1) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Purchased electricity (Scope 2)3, 424% 23% 23% 23% 24%
Purchased steam (Scope 2) 3% 2% 3% 3% 3%
1 May not add to 100 percent due to rounding.
2  Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits or guarantees of origin have been retained or retired.
3 Reported using Scope 2 location-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
4 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits (RECs) have been sold. 
 GRI 302-1  Energy consumption within the 
organization (Scopes 1 + 2)
GRI 302-4  Energy reductions40        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesIn March 2020, the U.S. EPA again recognized our 
company with our 13th consecutive Sustained 
Excellence Award. This is also the 15th consecutive year 
in which we have been recognized by ENERGY STAR for 
excellence in energy management.
In 2019, our company continued to successfully use 
ENERGY STAR benchmarking tools such as the ENERGY 
STAR Portfolio Manager to obtain the ENERGY STAR 
Certified Building label for four buildings including:
• A data center in New Jersey that obtained a perfect 
score of 100 
• A research office in Pennsylvania for the 
9th consecutive year 
• Two office buildings in Pennsylvania for the 
2nd consecutive year
Our Puerto Rico facility was awarded the ENERGY 
STAR Pharma Energy Performance Indicator (EPI) 
for superior energy efficiency and environmental 
performance among U.S. pharmaceutical 
manufacturing plants for the 11th consecutive year. 
For more information, please see GRI 305-5 on 
page 47 , the Climate Change & Energy Use  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com, and our CDP Climate Change 
Questionnaire .Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 
energy use (% of total)12015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Natural gas (Scope 1) 60% 61% 59% 62% 62%
Fleet fuel (Scope 1) 11% 12% 12% 10% 9%
Renewable energy generated and 
used onsite or purchased (Scope 1)20.01% 0.3% 1.1% 3.1% 6.1%
Fuel oil (Scope 1) 2% 2% 2% 2% 2%
Bio-Fuel (Scope 1) 0.3% 0.4% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6%
Spent solvents (Scope 1) 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Coal (Scope 1) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Purchased electricity (Scope 2)3, 424% 23% 22% 20% 18%
Purchased steam (Scope 2) 3% 2% 3% 3% 3%
1 May not add to 100 percent due to rounding.
2 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits or guarantees of origin have been retained or retired.
3 Reported using Scope 2 location-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
4 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits (RECs) have been sold. 41        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 303: Water
As we strive to meet the health needs of our patients, 
we are increasingly operating in regions of the world 
where access to clean water and proper sanitation is 
under great pressure. Even in established markets, our 
business faces water-related risks.
Our global water strategy aims to achieve sustainable 
water management within our operations and 
our supply chain, which supports UN Sustainable 
Development Goal (SDG) 6, “Clean Water and 
Sanitation.” To achieve these strategic objectives, we 
are focusing on the following commitments:
• Ensuring that our wastewater discharges comply 
with local and national standards, as well as internal 
company requirements
• Understanding and controlling our operational 
water footprint
• Managing water risk at our facilities and in our 
supply chain
• Reporting publicly on our water use and goals
We have established water goals to help us manage 
water-related risks in our operations and supply chain:Goals Progress Indicator
Internal operations
By 2020, we will develop water conservation plans for sites in 
“high water risk” locations.On track On Track
By 2025, we will maintain global water use at or below  
2015 levels.3.6 million m3 below 2015 levels 
(15% reduction)On Track  
Supply Chain
We will collect greenhouse gas emissions and water use data 
from at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers with the 
highest environmental impact.GHG and water data collected 
from 96% of high-impact 
strategic suppliersAchieved
By 2020, we will engage with those suppliers and request 
them to identify GHG emission and water use reduction 
opportunities.On track On Track  
By 2025, at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers with the 
highest environmental impacts will set their own GHG 
emission and water use reduction targets.On track On Track 
 42        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 303-1 Water as a shared resource
Water use and risk by region 
(million m3) Extremely High High Med to High Low to Med Low N/A % of Total Total
North America 0.00 2.55 2.97 9.88 0.43 0.05 78% 15.87
Europe, Middle East and Africa 0.14 0.88 0.13 0.24 1.32 0.23 14% 2.93
Asia Pacific 0.02 0.05 0.12 0.00 0.78 0.24 6% 1.20
Latin America 0.05 0.11 0.00 0.00 0.08 0.08 2% 0.32
Total10.21 3.59 3.21 10.12 2.61 0.59 – 20.32
1 All values above are rounded. As a result, the total values shown are not equal to the sum of the individual source totals.
Water use and risk by region (%) Extremely High High Med to High Low to Med Low N/A
North America 0% 16% 19% 62% 3% 0%
Europe, Middle East and Africa 5% 30% 4% 8% 45% 8%
Asia Pacific 1% 4% 10% 0% 65% 20%
Latin America 15% 34% 0% 0% 26% 25%
Total11% 18% 16% 50% 13% 3%
1 May not add to 100 percent due to rounding.43        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesIn 2019, we used 20.3 million cubic meters of water 
globally, versus 23.9 million cubic meters in 2015, 
representing a 15 percent reduction in water use.
Approximately 64 percent of the total water we 
used in 2019 was supplied from nearby surface 
water and groundwater resources, with the balance 
sourced from municipal water supplies. Many of our 
facilities employ water reuse and recovery strategies, 
including recirculation of water in cooling towers and 
condensate recovery.
We use the World Resources Institute’s (WRI’s) 
Aqueduct water-risk-assessment tool to measure and 
map our water risks. Sites are categorized using the 
“Baseline Water Stress” indicator, which is the ratio 
of total annual water withdrawals to total available 
annual renewable supply, and accounts for up-stream 
consumptive use. Higher stress values indicate more 
competition among water users. A new version of 
the Aqueduct tool (version 3.0) was launched in 
August 2019. The following upgrades to the tool have 
resulted in changes to the baseline water stress rating 
and scoring:
• Inclusion of both surface and groundwater in 
the model
• Modifications to the scoring scale
• Changes to the indicators
• Hydrological model underpinning the indicators
• Hydrological sub-basins 
In 2019, we operated five manufacturing and/or 
research facilities in areas with “extremely high” 
Baseline Water Stress, according to the WRI’s 
Aqueduct 3.0 tool. The reduction from 11 in 2018 is 
directly related to the changes in the tool identified 
above. We are also assessing water risk status of sites 
brought into the network through recent acquisitions.Water use in areas of high to extremely high 
water risk by region (million m3) Groundwater Surface WaterPurchased 
Water Total
North America 0.45 0.00 2.11 2.55
Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.23 0.13 0.66 1.02
Asia Pacific 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.07
Latin America 0.04 0.00 0.12 0.15
Total 0.71 0.13 2.95 3.80
Water use by source (million m 3)1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Groundwater 12.2 10.4 10.2 10.5 10.4
Surface water 3.9 3.2 2.7 2.4 2.7
Purchased water 7.7 7.1 6.6 7.7 7.3
Total223.9 20.6 19.6 20.5 20.3
1  In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, prior-year data have been adjusted to add or remove facilities that have been acquired and sold. 
Adjustments also reflect changes in methodology to ensure consistency from year to year.
2 All values above are rounded to one decimal place. As a result, the total values shown are not equal to the sum of the individual source totals. 44        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesThe facilities that use the most water in our network 
are U.S.-based. Of these, two are in areas of “high” 
Baseline Water Stress.
We assess high-water-use facilities that are 
experiencing water interruptions or are located in 
areas of “extremely high” and “high” Baseline Water 
Stress according to the WRI Aqueduct tool, and develop 
water management plans as needed. We work with a 
thirdparty water use expert to evaluate opportunities 
for water use reductions at these sites, resulting in 
sitespecific water management plans. We are also 
working to identify “hot spots” of water use within our 
supply chain so that we can engage with our suppliers 
on the issue of water risk.
GRI 303-2            Water discharge-related impacts 
Our facilities are required to implement an internal 
EQC program that evaluates potential human health 
and environmental impacts of active pharmaceutical 
ingredients (APIs) in waterbodies where we 
discharge wastewater. These standards are based 
on criteria established in accordance with stringent 
product regulatory filing review process (as per our 
Pharmaceutical in the Environment Public Policy 
statement ). Each facility uses the internal EQC 
standards to:
• Assess the potential risk from its operations 
using science-based and industry-accepted risk 
assessment methods
• Minimize environmental impacts from wastewater 
discharges in the local watershed
• Establish procedures for managing, treating, or 
controlling APIs in wastewater prior to discharge 
where neededOur production facilities have, or will be provided 
with, API-treatment technology where needed, so 
that our wastewater discharges meet both regulatory 
requirements and these internal standards.
We also provide EQC information to suppliers that 
manufacture pharmaceutical compounds for us and 
have initiated detailed assessments of our suppliers to 
better understand and address potential impacts.
In addition, as a member of the Antimicrobial 
Resistance (AMR) Industry Alliance and signatory to 
the Industry Roadmap for Progress on Combating 
AMR, we are working to deliver on our commitments 
to reduce the environmental impacts from antibiotic 
residues in wastewater. We have reviewed the 
operations of our third-party suppliers to assess their 
wastewater treatment controls and have recommended 
improvements where needed, which we will follow 
through to completion.
Wastewater from our facilities is managed and 
treated to meet regulatory standards and minimize 
environmental impacts prior to discharge. On-site 
wastewater treatment facilities are operated at many 
of our production and research facilities. Where on-site 
treatment is not provided, wastewater is discharged 
to local municipal wastewater treatment facilities 
that have the technology and capacity to treat our 
wastewater.
For more information, please visit the Water  
and Sourcing & Supplier Relations  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com, or review our response to  
the CDP Water Security questionnaire .GRI 303-3            Water withdrawal 
Our sites employ a variety of technologies and 
techniques aimed at reducing our water footprint 
and improving operational performance. Closed-loop 
cooling systems, which reduce freshwater use, are 
employed at more than half of our facilities worldwide. 
Reverse osmosis (RO) “reject water” is reused for 
non-potable and non-process applications such as 
cooling-tower feed water and fire water. In all, 1.1 million 
cubic meters of water was recovered, reused or 
recycled at our facilities in 2019, which is equivalent to 
five percent of our total water use.
Our water-use-reduction initiatives include:
• Consideration of water use in process design
• Cooling-system optimization
• Prompt repairs and maintenance of steam-
distribution systems and traps
• Recovery and reuse of steam condensate and 
“reject water”
• Process-water purification system optimization
• Avoiding the use of water in mechanical seals, such as 
those in pumps
For more information, please visit the Water  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
For information on the specific water sources affected 
in areas experiencing high and extremely-high water 
risk, please see our CDP Water Security  response.45        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices
 
 
 
 
Scope 1 
755,340 M T CO2e
Scope 2
316,630 M T CO2e
Scope 3 6,965,600 M T CO2eGHG emissions in 2019
Note: Scope 2 is the market-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.GRI 305: Emissions
Scientific data support that climate change is occurring, 
and we are taking action to reduce the economic and 
public health risks associated with a changing climate.
We report our GHG emissions as required by 
regulations in certain countries and annually through 
CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project). In 2019, 
the CDP graded our disclosure as a “B” or a rating 
of “management”, indicating that we are “taking 
coordinated action on climate issues.” “This is higher 
than the North America regional average of C, and  
same as the Biotech & pharma sector average of B.”
We have committed to reducing our Scope 1 and 
market-based Scope 2 absolute GHG emissions by 
40 percent between 2015 and 2025. This goal is 
designed to meet the science-based criteria to limit  
the global temperature increase to below 2°C. 
The World Resource Institute’s Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol defines Scope 1 GHG emissions as emissions 
from owned or controlled sources such as onsite fuel 
combustion and fleet vehicles. Scope 2 emissions 
are those from indirect sources such as purchased 
electricity. Scope 3 includes indirect emissions in  
a company’s value chain.46        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesWe have adopted a set of environmental sustainability 
goals to help position our company to succeed in an 
increasingly resource-constrained world.
These were developed to address the rising 
expectations of our customers, investors, 
external stakeholders and employees regarding 
the environmental impact of our operations and 
supply chain.
We have made progress toward our environmental 
sustainability goals and remain on track to achieve 
them. We continue to find ways to decrease energy 
demand and have increased the amount of renewable 
energy we purchase. Our procurement team has 
started to engage our strategic suppliers in our efforts 
to reduce the environmental footprint outside of our 
operations.Goals Progress Indicator
GHG emissions
By 2025, we will reduce global Scope 1 and market-based 
Scope 2 GHG emissions by at least 40 percent from 2015 
levels.26.5% reduction On Track
Renewable energy
By 2025, at least 50 percent of our purchased electricity will 
come from renewable sources. By 2040, 100 percent of our 
purchased electricity will come from renewable sources.125.4% of our purchased 
electricity comes from 
renewablesOn Track  
1  We have defined “purchased electricity” as electricity sourced from external suppliers as well as renewable electricity that was generated and 
utilized onsite where we retained the renewable attributes or where we have obtained renewable attributes through contract.
Goals Progress Indicator
Since 2018, we have been collecting GHG emissions and water use 
data from at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers with the 
highest environmental impact.GHG and water data collected 
from 96% of high-impact 
strategic suppliersAchieved
By 2020, we will engage with those suppliers and request them to 
identify GHG emission and water use reduction opportunities.On track On Track  
By 2025, at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers with the 
highest environmental impacts will set their own GHG emission 
and water use reduction targets.In progress On Track 
 
Note: Scope 2 is the market-based value in accordance with the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol.47        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesTotal GHGs (MT CO 2e)12015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Scope 1 and location-based 
Scope 2 GHGs1,416,900 1,365,000 1,258,900 1,225,600 1,168,900
Scope 1 and market-based 
Scope 2 GHGs1,459,000 1,401,700 1,274,500 1,191,100 1,072,000
Scope 3 GHGs 5,586,300 7,975,100 6,586,100 6,239,800 6,965,600
1  In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, prior-year data have been adjusted to add or remove facilities that have been acquired or sold. 
Adjustments also reflect changes in methodology to ensure consistency from year to year.
  Governance
Our climate strategy is overseen globally by our 
Environmental Sustainability Center of Excellence 
(CoE) in partnership with our Energy CoE and Energy 
Procurement CoE. The CoEs review and report data, 
monitor progress, and provide assistance as needed, 
to support sites’ work towards these goals and review 
possible above-site renewable energy projects.
Each site is responsible for the management of their 
energy use. In many cases, our company partners with 
our third-party Integrated Facility Management (IFM) 
providers to manage energy use and work toward the 
corporate goals.
For information regarding our environmental 
management and governance, please see our EHS 
Management & Compliance  on MSDresponsibility.com.GRI 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1)
GRI 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2)
GRI 305-3  Other indirect GHG emissions  
(Scope 3)
GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions48        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesScope 3 GHGs details (MT CO 2e) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Purchased goods and services1 3,864,900 6,204,000 4,997,600 4,595,600 5,155,100
Capital goods1112,700 224,000 192,900 229,200 339,900
GHG emissions from fuel and energy-related activities not included in Scopes 1 & 22, 3276,200 304,500 262,100 243,400 240,700
Upstream transportation and distribution1 222,200 255,500 267,100 274,100 271,200
Waste generated in operations (excluding recycled & composted waste)4, 5 20,600 16,800 16,000 18,200 19,500
GHG emissions related to employee business travel6, 7 283,300 265,400 218,200 301,100 340,400
Employee commuting 302,400 301,500 262,200 264,400 272,000
Downstream transportation and distribution8 211,000 118,000 121,900 120,800 133,200
GHG emissions from use of sold products9 255,000 248,400 205,800 148,100 142,100
End-of-life treatment of sold products10 38,000 37,000 42,200 44,900 51,500
Total115,586,300 7,975,100 6,586,100 6,239,800 6,965,600
Note: Limited Data Assurance was granted for emissions calculated from primary travel vendor data and employee reimbursable travel mileage data. The total reported here includes non-primary travel vendor data 
emissions which were based on our 2019 third-party spend data and an Economic Input-Output Model performed by Climate Earth, Inc.
NA: Not available.
1 Based on third-party spend data and an economic input-output model performed by Climate Earth, Inc.
2 Emission factors from Argonne National Laboratory’s GREET Model ( https://greet.es.anl.gov/ ) were used in conjunction with primary fuel and energy-use data.
3 Data as reported historically, not baseline adjusted.
4 Primary-waste data were used with the U.S. EPA’s WARM Model ( https://www.epa.gov/warm ).
5  Including recycled and composted waste in these calculations, would result in negative emissions in), 2015 (-40,200 MT CO 2e), 2016 (-60,200 MT CO 2e), 2017 (-41,200 MT CO 2e), 2018 (-43,700 MT CO 2e) and 2019 
(-62,400).
6  Based on primary travel vendor data, employee-reimbursable mileage and UK Defra factors ( https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/government-conversion-factors-for-company-reporting#conversion-
factors-2015 ).
7 Emissions are based on primary vendor data where available and economic input-output modelling performed by Climate Earth, Inc., using spend data.
8  Emissions were calculated using our “Upstream transportation and distribution” spend data as a worst-case estimate entered into the WRI Quantis tool. We assumed that all “downstream” material would first have been 
stored, transported and handled “upstream.”
9  Assumes that all HFC-containing devices shipped for sale were consumed. The amount and identity of HFC in each product is calculated and multiplied by the appropriate global warming potential (GWP) to determine the 
CO2e released as a result of product use.
10 Calculated assuming that all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging purchased was disposed of by our customers. Packaging material data was used with the U.S. EPA’s WARM Model.
11 May not add up to total due to rounding.49        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesReduction of GHG emissions 
From 2018 to 2019, we reduced our year-over-year 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions 
by 10 percent due to our continued focus on 
energy efficiency and an increased utilization of 
renewable energy.
We have analyzed and reported our Scope 3 impacts 
using primary operating data, accepted emission 
factors, and an economic input-output model based 
on our third-party spend. In 2019, our Scope 3 GHG 
emissions remained roughly the same as in 2018.
Our analysis shows that our Scope 3 GHG emissions 
impacts are nearly three times greater than our 
combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We are 
working to reduce those impacts through activities 
such as reducing waste in our operations, reducing 
fuel use and looking for opportunities to shift from air 
shipping to ocean transport when practical. We are 
also starting to engage with our strategic suppliers to 
identify ways to reduce GHG emissions in our supply 
chain. These actions not only reduce our environmental 
impact but benefit the business by reducing costs.
For more information on our initiatives, policies and 
accomplishments, please see the Climate Change & 
Energy Use  page on MSDresponsibility.com.GRI 305-6 Ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
GRI 305-7 NOx, SOx and other emissions
We are committed to controlling air emissions from 
our facilities to reduce local, regional and global 
environmental impacts.
Air emissions are generated by our manufacturing and 
research operations, as well as by burning fuel in on-site 
equipment and fleet vehicles. Our Air Management 
Standard requires our facilities to quantify and control 
air emissions to comply with applicable regulations and 
emission standards. 
Any increase in production can negatively impact our 
emissions trends. Though there are efforts to minimize 
solvent use in production, solvents are needed for 
cleaning and disinfecting purposes. As the company 
transforms from manufacturing of pharmaceuticals 
to biopharmaceuticals, mandatory cleaning and 
disinfection protocols associated with biologics and 
vaccines are increasing solvent based emissions. 
The Montreal Protocol mandates phase-out of 
refrigerants that are ozone depleting substances (ODS) 
per schedules approved for individual countries. Our 
facilities ensure compliance with applicable regulatory 
requirements that have been established in accordance 
with each country’s commitments. 
Our company’s Air Center of Excellence (CoE) provides 
assistance as needed to our facilities to obtain 
appropriate environmental permits, and to quantify 
and control air emissions to comply with applicable 
regulations and emission standards.Production and research emissions
Many of our pharmaceutical manufacturing processes, 
cleaning/disinfection operations and research 
laboratories require the use of solvents. Evaporation 
of solvents into the air is the primary source of volatile 
organic compound (VOC) emissions. In an effort to 
reduce VOC emissions, reduction in solvent usage 
has been incorporated as an element of our  Green & 
Sustainable Science program .
Key elements of the program include designing efficient 
processes that use fewer and less-hazardous organic 
solvents and using water-based methods for cleaning 
our process equipment where they are as effective 
as solvent-based methods. To reduce emissions from 
processes where organic solvents are used, we use 
pollution-control technologies such as conservation 
vents, carbon filters, thermal oxidizers, condensers 
and scrubbers.
Fossil fuel combustion emissions
Air emissions are also generated by burning fuel in our 
boilers and power-generation turbines (for heat and 
energy), and by other combustion processes, such 
as thermal oxidizers (for treating air emissions) and 
incinerators (for destroying waste). Our fleet vehicles 
and aircraft also burn fuel and generate air emissions. 
These combustion processes result in emissions of 
carbon dioxide (CO 2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur 
oxides (SOx) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). 
We strive to make our facilities more energy-efficient 
through our energy-management programs and to 
improve the fuel efficiency of our fleet vehicles. By 
making these improvements, we also reduce emissions 
of CO2, NOx, SOx and VOCs from our operations.50        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesAir pollutant emissions by type (MT) 1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 494 455 481 495 384
Sulfur oxides (SOx) 48 37 37 30 27
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 455 440 380 405 418
Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.3 0.6
Note: Previously reported data have been restated per our methodology, which includes adding facilities that have been acquired and removing 
facilities that have been sold as operating sites.
1 Data are estimated using conservative assumptions and factors, not measured or weighed.Our NOx emissions significantly decreased from 
2018 to 2019 due to the discontinuation of the use of 
emergency generators at our Puerto Rico facility that 
were required during an extended power outage caused 
by Hurricane Maria. Energy-conservation programs also 
helped reduce emissions.
VOC emissions increased from 2018 to 2019 due to 
increases in production and because of continuous data 
collection improvements with the adoption of more 
accurate emission-tracking methods. 
The decrease in SOx emissions from 2018 to 2019 can 
be attributed to the use of fuel with a lower sulfur 
content and our energy-conservation programs.
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances are the result 
of non-routine releases from temperature-control 
and fire-suppression systems and can vary from year 
to year.
For more information, please see our Air Emissions  
and EHS Management & Compliance  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
51        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 306: Effluents & Waste
The proper management of waste from our facilities is 
important for the communities where we operate and 
is the focus of our environmental permits and other 
regulatory requirements.
Our waste management standard requires our facilities 
to comply with applicable generation, management and 
disposal regulations and standards.
To minimize our environmental footprint, and align 
with the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
we look for opportunities to avoid the use of hazardous 
materials, to reuse or recycle materials, and to prevent 
the generation of waste. When prevention, reuse 
and recycling are not practical, we apply controls and 
treatment technologies to prevent human health 
impacts and minimize environmental impacts.
The amount of waste we generate reflects the 
efficiency of our manufacturing processes. Our facilities 
track and report the amount of operational waste they 
generate and how it is managed.
We continuously strive to reduce the amount of 
operational waste we generate and to maximize the use 
of environmentally beneficial disposal methods such as 
recycling, composting and waste-to-energy.
Governance
Waste management is overseen globally by the Waste 
and Dangerous Goods Center of Excellence (CoE). This 
CoE reviews waste data to monitor sites’ progress, and 
provides assistance as needed to support the sites’ 
work towards these goals. 
Each site is responsible for the management of its 
waste. In many cases, we partner with our third-party 
Integrated Facility Management (IFM) partners to 
manage site waste and work toward the corporate 
waste goals. For information regarding our environmental 
management and governance, please see  
our EHS Management & Compliance  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
Goals Progress Indicator
By 2025, no more than 20 percent of our global operational waste 
will be sent to landfills and incinerators (without energy recovery).26% to landfills and incinerators 
(without energy recovery)On Track
By 2025, we will maintain global water use at or below 2015 levels.  46% of sites On Track  
Waste minimization begins with the upfront evaluation 
of our product designs and manufacturing processes. 
Through our Green and Sustainable Science program , 
we design processes that use safer chemicals, consume 
less energy, use less water and other resources 
and generate less waste. Our process development 
biologists, chemists and engineers have the expertise 
to create more sustainable ways to make our products.
To ensure our waste is managed in an environmentally 
responsible manner, we use only approved waste 
disposal facilities. Approved facilities demonstrate 
that they have the systems, technologies and practices 
to manage our waste streams responsibly and in 
compliance with all applicable requirements. We 
routinely audit these facilities to verify the acceptability 
of their systems and practices.
Waste types are defined differently in various parts 
of the world. For this report, we have divided our 
operational waste into two categories:
Hazardous waste: Heavily regulated or high-risk 
waste streams that need to be neutralized, treated 
or destroyed to address a particular hazard such 
as toxicity, flammability, corrosivity, radioactivity, 
pharmaceutically active or infectious.Non-hazardous waste: This includes all other 
operational waste. The amount of construction project 
related waste can vary significantly from year to year 
based on the number and size of projects. Therefore, 
our definition of operational waste does not include 
construction or demolition waste from projects.
Over the past year, a number of countries in Asia 
have passed legislation restricting the acceptance of 
solid waste from other countries. Historically, a large 
percentage of recyclable waste collected in the United 
States has been shipped to Asia for recycling, so this 
change had and continues to have the potential to 
affect the percentage of our non-hazardous waste 
sent for recycling. However, this change did not 
negatively impact our recycling rates in the past year. 
The percentage of our non-hazardous waste sent for 
recycling increased from 38 percent to 40 percent from 
2018 to 2019.52        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method
SASB 250a.4  Amount of product accepted for 
takeback, reuse, or disposal
Global operational waste 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Incinerated (without energy recovery) 13% 20% 19% 24% 19%
Landfilled 15% 10% 10% 9% 7%
Total 28% 30% 29% 33% 26%
Hazardous waste (MT) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Incinerated (without energy recovery) 7,928 13,186 13,462 17,639 14,035
Energy recovery 11,089 9,871 9,538 10,300 13,655
Recycled 5,944 6,135 7,979 6,827 8,034
Other 2,299 2,425 2,423 2,221 1,865
Reused 1,428 2,132 1,505 695 1,147
Landfilled 1,652 1,492 745 731 938
Composted 5 5 0 0 0
Total 30,345 35,246 35,652 38,413 39,67453        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesNon-hazardous waste (MT) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Recycled 15,811 14,636 15,188 12,975 14,188
Energy recovery 9,706 10,342 8,576 9,273 10,030
Composted 3,018 3,771 4,668 4,798 4,843
Landfilled 8,459 5,826 6,633 5,684 4,603
Other 304 445 212 209 1,025
Reused 970 972 1,071 2,204 660
Incinerated (without energy recovery) 1,243 1,361 426 374 477
Total 39,511 37,353 36,774 35,517 35,826
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste (MT) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Recycled, energy recovery, reused or composted 47,971 47,864 48,525 47,072 52,557
Landfilled and incinerated (without energy recovery) 19,282 21,865 21,265 24,428 20,053
Incinerated (without energy recovery) 9,171 14,547 13,887 18,013 14,512
Landfilled 10,111 7,318 7,378 6,415 5,541
Other 2,603 2,870 2,635 2,430 2,890
Total 69,856 72,599 72,426 73,930 75,500In 2019, we managed approximately 75,500 metric 
tons of waste from our operations, a two percent 
increase from 2018. Of this, 39,674 metric tons were 
hazardous waste.
Of the hazardous waste we generated in 2019, 
58 percent was beneficially reused in some way (reused, 
recycled, composted or sent for energy recovery), up 
from 46 percent in 2018. Approximately 20 percent 
of our hazardous waste was sent offsite for recycling 
and was either returned to us for reuse or sold to 
other industries. Another 34 percent was burned to 
generate power, up from 27 percent in 2018. Regarding 
the hazardous waste that could not be recycled or 
beneficially reused, 36 percent of the total hazardous 
waste generated was incinerated without energy 
recovery, down from 46 percent in 2018. Approximately 
two percent was sent to hazardous-waste landfills. 
We beneficially reused 83 percent of the 35,826 metric 
tons of non-hazardous waste we generated in 2019. 
We are evaluating and refining the programs in place at 
our manufacturing, research and office sites to reduce 
waste generation and increase recycling.
An evaluation of the method we had been using to 
calculate the number of our sites that were zero 
waste to landfill determined that our definition was 
not aligned with the majority Zero Waste to Landfill 
certification programs, which make allowances for 
small amounts of waste that have no legal alternative 
to landfill disposal. To be consistent with these 
certification programs, we revised our definition of zero 
waste to landfill in 2019 from no shipments of waste 
to landfill to less than one percent of waste, by weight, 
going to landfill. As a result of this alignment of our 
definition of zero waste to landfill, 46 percent of our 
facilities sent zero operational waste to landfill in 2019, 
up from 38 percent in 2018.54        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesWe continue to work to identify alternate methods 
of waste management that will reduce the amount of 
waste sent to incinerators (without energy recovery) 
and landfills. 
For more information, please visit the Waste 
Management  page on MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 306-3 Significant spills
A “significant environmental event” is defined as an 
environmental release that results in environmental 
harm to humans, aquatic organisms or wildlife, or any 
environmental release that requires reporting to the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
We experienced no significant environmental events 
in 2019.
GRI 307:  
Environmental Compliance
Protecting our people, our communities and the 
environment is fundamentally important to the way our 
company operates.
Our company strives every day to conduct business 
in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. 
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy 
workplace for our employees and to reducing the 
environmental impact of our operations around the 
world. Our core values are focused around promoting 
the health and safety of our employees and respect 
for the environment. For more information, please 
visit the EHS Management & Compliance  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
In addition to complying with all applicable country, 
regional, state, provincial and local safety and 
environmental laws, we strive for Environmental, 
Health and Safety (EHS) performance that is among the 
best in the pharmaceutical industry.We also adhere to the following key operating 
principles:
• Maintain a safe and healthy working environment for 
all employees, contractors and guests
• Foster a culture of EHS excellence that is built 
on science, integrity, accountability, personal 
responsibility, collaboration and active employee 
participation
• Seek to continuously improve our EHS systems, 
processes and standards
• Minimize our impact on the environment by 
identifying and implementing approaches to reduce 
the resources we use during the design, development 
and manufacture of our products
• Understand the potential hazards associated with our 
products and take action to minimize any potential 
risks or adverse impacts
• Promote EHS excellence in our supply chain by 
entering into business relationships with partners 
that share our commitment to responsible EHS 
stewardship
The Global Safety and Environment (GSE) department 
is responsible for the global EHS Management System 
which is based on the “Plan, Do, Check, Act” model. 
This enables us to assess and continually improve our 
practices over time. The model is implemented globally 
through a set of interwoven business processes that 
span the corporation:
• Our planning process includes developing goals, 
objectives and metrics based on a review of our 
company’s performance, EHS programs, applicable 
regulations and external factors that may impact our 
business (PLAN)
• Activities are performed by using standards, 
guidelines and tools that are integrated into 
the EHS Management System and include 
specific expectations for sites and operating 
organizations (DO)• Governance committees, from the executive-
level EHS Council through site-based compliance 
committees, review business unit performance and 
progress against objectives throughout the year. 
EHS audits are also performed throughout the 
year. (CHECK)
• Corrective actions and continuous-improvement 
initiatives are established to resolve EHS concerns 
that have surfaced during periodic assessments, 
audits and routine surveillance of the regulatory 
landscape. We track our corrective actions centrally 
to ensure proper oversight. (ACT)
We have robust programs and initiatives to address 
global challenges and opportunities related to 
achievement of our short and long-term environmental 
management and compliance objectives. 
Training
Training is critical to building worldwide employee 
competencies that will improve compliance, reduce 
risks and drive continuous performance improvement.
We have a global standard that defines the EHS training 
expectations for employees in three categories:
• Manager training covers specific management 
responsibilities with regard to safety and 
environmental compliance and promoting a “safety 
first” culture
• EHS professional training is designed to expand 
technical expertise and improve our EHS capabilities 
around the world
• Employee training covers the specific information 
our employees need to perform their jobs in a safe 
and environmentally compliant manner, focusing 
on hazards they encounter on the job and the 
corresponding control measures 55        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesSite EHS professionals complete an assessment of 
the activities performed at their sites and ensure that 
relevant topics are included in their site training plans. 
They develop employee training curricula to comply 
with internal and regulatory training requirements 
specific to their country. These training programs 
are reviewed periodically to ensure that they remain 
current. Our EHS training program materials are 
available in both instructor-led and e-learning formats. 
We also conduct periodic web-based seminars to inform 
EHS professionals of changes in regulations, standards 
and company practices.
EHS governance
Our commitment to the environment and employee 
health and safety begins with the company’s Executive 
Committee, which has established the corporate EHS 
Council. 
The EHS Council is composed of senior-level executives 
representing all business units, and is responsible 
for overall EHS governance, as well as for leading and 
driving enterprise-wide excellence in EHS management 
and performance. In 2019 the EHS Council formally met 
four times, with additional off-cycle communications as 
needed. 
The Council’s responsibilities include:
• Establishing EHS strategy, policy and business risk 
mitigation controls
• Ensuring cross-divisional engagement in the design 
and implementation of EHS business processes
• Sponsoring and implementing a sustainability strategy
• Monitoring the EHS performance of the company and 
establish continuous improvement targets
• Enhancing visibility and transparency of EHS risks, 
processes and issuesAn EHS Standards Committee has been chartered by 
the Council to provide stewardship over the standards 
and enable business engagement in the development 
of new or revised standards. Each area of the business 
is responsible for executing against the standards, 
contributing to the development of programs, 
supporting internal audits and communicating 
significant EHS events. Divisional EHS compliance 
committees have also been established to manage, 
execute and resolve EHS issues as they arise.
The vice president (VP) of GSE is responsible for 
communicating to the company’s Board of Directors, 
Executive Committee and the EHS Council regarding 
progress on goals, objectives and metrics, as well 
as other material issues. In addition, the VP of GSE 
partners with business leaders to establish long- and 
short-term goals and performance metrics to drive EHS 
excellence.
Safety and environmental performance targets are 
included in divisional management objectives. 
Learn more about corporate governance  at 
our company.
Our corporate EHS organization is responsible for:
• Developing corporate policies, procedures, 
guidelines, standards, tools and programs to set 
expectations and to support EHS compliance
• Providing technical and regulatory support to site-
based EHS staff and operating organizations
• Managing and implementing an internal audit 
program charged with understanding the current 
state of compliance and identifying potential issues
• Tracking and communicating internal and external 
trends that should be addressed
• Anticipating, tracking and commenting on new 
regulations affecting our business and, where 
appropriate, developing plans to address them• Tracking EHS performance of sites, divisions and 
the company as a whole, and communicating 
performance versus targets
Our site-based safety and environmental professionals 
around the world support the EHS needs of their 
business areas, which include manufacturing, research 
operations, sales and administrative activities by:
• Ensuring that line management fully understands 
EHS requirements, including applicable regulations, 
permit requirements and company EHS Standards
• Establishing, assessing and improving programs
• Providing regulatory and technical support to 
employees and the operating areas
• Routinely assessing performance against our 
company standards, regulatory requirements and 
performance targets
• Acting as the primary liaison with local regulators 
and inspectors
• Investigating incidents and near-miss events to 
identify root causes and developing corrective and 
preventive actions to prevent recurrence
Internal auditing
We have a detailed and rigorous EHS audit program.
Our global corporate EHS audit program is one way 
in which we identify and resolve compliance and 
performance issues within the company.
• Our audit leaders are full-time professional EHS 
auditors with extensive experience in auditing a 
broad range of EHS programs applicable to the 
company. The individual audit teams consist of EHS 
professionals with extensive site and subject-matter 
expertise. In many cases, particularly outside of 
the United States, our internal auditors work with 
independent consultants who have regulatory 
expertise in the laws of the host country.56        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices• All audit findings are addressed through the 
development of corrective and preventive action 
plans (CAPA), which are reviewed, approved by 
the audit leader and regional EHS leader, and 
tracked to completion. This process includes senior 
management oversight. 
• Findings from our audit program are communicated 
to appropriate parts of the organization so that 
learnings may be shared, and actions can be taken
• Audit performance and key program metrics are 
reviewed as part of our governance process
We use multiple factors to determine the audit 
frequency for our facilities, including facility size, 
operational complexity, compliance status and 
performance history. Our most complex operations are 
audited every year, and all manufacturing and research 
operations are audited at least every two years. Less 
complex facilities, such as sales and business offices 
are audited less frequently. In 2019, we performed 
55 corporate EHS audits of our facilities, covering 
76 percent of our manufacturing and research  
locations and involving 693 auditor days of onsite 
review activities.
An internal Quality Assurance Review of the EHS 
Auditing program was conducted in 2018/2019 by 
Corporate Audit and Assurance Services. As a result 
of this internal review, the EHS auditing program 
was rated “Effective,” with controls and practices 
deemed to be in line with company requirements and 
expectations. These results were consistent with the 
third-party review of our program in 2017.In addition to our corporate EHS audit program, 
our sites regularly perform self-inspections, and 
annually complete self-assessments of selected 
regulatory requirements and company standards, 
with all programs being evaluated at least once every 
three years.
Certification
Our company is certified in the Responsible Care® 
Management System Technical Specification 
RC101.04.2013. The RCMS® recertification occurred  
on December 4, 2019. 
Additionally, our corporate EHS management system 
is generally aligned with the requirements of the 
International Standards Organization (ISO), but we 
do not pursue certification under the Environmental 
(ISO 14001) or Safety (ISO 45001) frameworks at the 
global level. Some of our facilities have individually 
achieved ISO 14001 certification to meet customer 
requirements.
Remediation
Environmental management practices have evolved 
significantly over the past 30 years.
With research and manufacturing operations dating 
back more than 100 years, some of our facilities 
operated at a time when there were few regulations and 
little understanding of good environmental practices. 
Because our company has responsibility for remediation 
of these sites, we have launched investigations, developed science-based remediation plans and 
implemented cleanup projects to protect the health 
and safety of our neighbors, communities, employees 
and the environment, and comply with all applicable 
requirements.
Over time, we have acquired properties and 
manufacturing facilities that may not have been 
subject to the same EHS management standards that 
we have in place today. We are also investigating and 
remediating those properties where necessary.
We spent $19.5 million in 2019 for remediating and 
environmental liabilities, including those at formerly 
owned and operated sites. Our company has an 
environmental liability reserve of approximately 
$62.5 million to fund the continued remediation 
of these sites into the future. In addition, we are 
a potentially responsible party at 15 multi-party 
Superfund sites in the U.S.57        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 307-1  Non-compliance with environmental 
laws and regulations
Our centralized EHS information system allows us to 
collect, manage, learn from and share our safety and 
environmental performance data more efficiently.
We collect and analyze data in both leading and 
lagging metrics to look for potential trends and 
identify opportunities that can help drive performance 
improvement. We continuously explore new ways to 
learn from and report on our performance.
Notices of violations, fines and settlements
We report all forms of EHS compliance notices 
using the term Notices of Violation (NOVs), which 
includes citations, letters of warning and notices of 
noncompliance from environmental and safety-focused 
regulatory agencies.
In 2019, we had 163 EHS-related regulatory agency 
inspections of our facilities around the world. We 
received four safety-related and nine environmental-
related NOVs and paid $17,690 in fines in 2019.
Significant environmental events
A “significant environmental event” is defined as an 
environmental release that results in environmental 
harm to humans, aquatic organisms or wildlife, or any 
environmental release that requires reporting to the 
U.S. EPA or equivalent entities globally. We experienced 
no significant environmental events in 2019.Notices of violations (NOVs)  and citations 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Environmental 16 12 5 6 9
Safety 2 2 3 1 4
Fines 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Environmental fines paid $92,270 $33,906 $0 $0 $17,690
Number of environmental fines 6 2 0 0 3
Safety fines paid $0 $0 $0 $0 $0
Number of safety fines 0 0 0 0 0
Safety and environmental performance targets 
are included in divisional management objectives. 
In addition, all employees are eligible for special 
recognition for innovative ideas and projects related to 
improving EHS aspects of our operations.
For more information on our initiatives, policies and 
accomplishments, please visit the EHS Management 
& Compliance  page on MSDresponsibility.com, or our 
2019 Form 10-K (page 105).58        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental Assessment
GRI 308-1  New suppliers screened using 
environmental criteria
The company maintains strict quality standards — no 
matter where in the world our products are 
manufactured. Once we have decided to engage 
with an external manufacturer, that manufacturer is 
required to comply with our business requirements 
which are set forth in our contract with that supplier, 
regardless of geography.
Prospective external manufacturers of active 
pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products 
are screened for environmental, health and safety 
(EHS) compliance, in addition to quality and supply and 
technical competence requirements. The EHS screening 
includes a survey covering such topics as regulatory 
compliance, fatalities and major incidents.
Based on the screening results and activities 
undertaken by the supplier, certain external 
manufacturers are subject to a more detailed 
onsite assessment conducted by a multidisciplinary 
team, which may include our company’s Quality, 
Environmental, Health & Safety, Global Technical 
Operations and Global Sourcing & Procurement 
representatives.
The external manufacturers we contract with are 
periodically reassessed using a risk-based approach; 
higher-risk external manufacturers are subject to 
more frequent onsite assessments. We expect that 
observations made during the audit process will 
be remediated by our external manufacturers, and 
we monitor and track corrective actions through 
completion.Global sustainable sourcing
We partner with PSCI and the Pharmaceutical 
Environmental Group (PEG) to benchmark, engage 
and share environmental sustainability best practices 
with peers and suppliers. We lead the Supplier 
Environmental/Sustainability Engagement teams 
within both of these organizations.
Our main focus to date has been to generate and update 
the PSCI Environmental Sustainability Survey template 
for members to utilize in conjunction with their survey 
efforts. We are now collectively developing supplier 
engagement tools and resources.
This initiative ensures a consistent message and 
approach with our suppliers across the industry. 
Working together with PSCI, we provide these tools 
and resources on PSCI LINK platform and webinars.
External manufacturing EHS assessments 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Prospective external manufacturers 50 34 37 65 43
Current external manufacturers 69 85 53 61 48
Total 119 119 90 126 91
PSCI Environmental Survey response rate  
(includes GHG and water usage) 2017 2018 2019
Response rate 87% 96% 96%
For more information, please visit the Sourcing & 
Supplier Relations  page on MSDresponsibility.com.59        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesSocial
GRI 401: Employment
Management approach
We recognize that our ability to excel depends on the 
integrity, knowledge, imagination, skill, diversity and 
teamwork of our employees.
A positive, inclusive and high-performing work 
environment is essential for employees to feel 
welcomed and valued, and to fully achieve their 
business objectives.
Harnessing the knowledge and insights of a globally  
diverse workforce requires leadership, a corporate 
culture of respect and full engagement, and a 
thoughtful and strategic approach to workplace 
inclusion and employee development and 
wellbeing — physical, emotional, social and financial.
We value global diversity and inclusion at every level of 
the organization and strive for inclusiveness in every 
aspect of work.
We are:
• Committed to fostering development and 
rewarding talent
• Dedicated to diversity and inclusion at every level of 
the organization
• Adept at recognizing unique skill sets and nurturing 
employees’ talents
60        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesFor more information on our initiatives, policies 
and accomplishments, please visit the Employees 
Overview , Employee Wellbeing , Compliance , Engaging 
Our Employees , Global Diversity & Inclusion , Human 
Rights , and  Learning & Development  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.Culture pillar Description
Innovation We meet the needs of our patients and customers through continuously 
inventing and pursuing new ideas and the most promising science.
Purpose-driven We are dedicated to the highest level of innovation and scientific excellence. 
Our research is guided by a commitment to improving health and the quality 
of life. We strive to identify and meet the most critical needs of patients and 
customers through continuous innovation.
Patient-focused We aspire to improve the health and wellness of people and animals 
worldwide, and to expand access to our medicines and vaccines.
Diverse and inclusive Drive a globally diverse and more inclusive workforce for our employees 
by creating an environment of belonging, engagement, equity, and 
empowerment to support our mission of developing innovative medicines 
and vaccines to save and improve lives.
Ethical and high integrity We are committed to the highest standards of ethics and integrity. We 
are responsible to our customers, to our competitors, to distributors and 
suppliers, to shareholders, and to the communities we serve worldwide. 
In discharging our responsibilities, we do not take professional or ethical 
shortcuts.
In order to assess the pillars of our culture, we use a three-pronged approach that provides insight into our 
deeply held beliefs and values, and how those are manifested through our allocation of resources and the actions 
we take as an organization:
Beliefs and values Includes our mission, our goals and shared understanding of behaviors and 
expectations across the organization
Purposeful investments How the company and employees choose to invest our resources that 
exemplify our beliefs and values
Decisions and actions Underlying assumptions that affect how we make decisions and the 
behaviors we demonstrate in the companyThroughout 2019, we invested in programs to drive positive cultural and talent changes at our company. 
Five pillars of our culture are critical for the advancement and success of our strategy:61        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesTurnover (global) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Overall turnover rate 1 14.8% 11.1% 10.7% 11.8% 9.9%
Voluntary turnover rate 7.4% 6.3% 6.5% 6.8% 6.9%
1 Includes all types of turnover of regular employees.
Turnover by region (2019) Asia Pacific Latin America EEMEA Japan EUCAN U.S.
Overall turnover rate 1 21.3% 14.7% 13.2% 3.5% 6.4% 6.5%
Voluntary turnover rate 16.0% 4.5% 8.8% 1.9% 4.3% 5.5%
1 Includes all types of turnover, including restructuring.
Turnover distribution by gender and region (2019) Female Male
Overall 48% 52%
Asia Pacific 48% 52%
EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa) 52% 48%
Latin America 42% 58%
EUCAN (Europe and Canada) 49% 51%
Japan 33% 67%
U.S. 49% 51%GRI 401-1 New employee hires and turnover
SASB 330a.1  Talent recruitment and retention efforts 
for R&D personnel
SASB 330a.2  Voluntary and involuntary turnover rate 
for: executives and senior managers, 
midlevel managers, professionals and all 
others62        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesThe talent of our scientists, combined with scientific 
and technological advances that enable the rapid 
invention of expanding classes of therapeutics and 
higher resolution translational medicine studies, are 
transforming the way we conduct research.
We have strategically located discovery centers in 
regions with active biomedical research communities 
including South San Francisco, California, Boston and 
Cambridge, Massachusetts and London, UK. These 
centers allow us to recruit talented local scientists and 
facilitate collaboration with local academic institutions 
and companies. These discovery sites complement and 
connect with our strong research and development 
capabilities and expertise based at our New Jersey and 
Pennsylvania sites.Employee hires by region 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Asia Pacific
Number of hires 2,104 1,732 1,909 3,071 2,727
Hire rate 1 17.7% 14.8% 16.1% 24.4% 20.8%
EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East And Africa)
Number of hires 384 382 378 505 605
Hire rate 1 12.8% 13.5% 13.7% 16.7% 18.8%
Latin America
Number of hires 509 380 1,246 714 558
Hire rate 1 9.8% 8.0% 23.8% 13.1% 10.5%
Eucan (Europe And Canada)
Number of hires 1,427 1,636 1,865 2,495 2,624
Hire rate 1 7.8% 8.9% 9.8% 12.3% 12.3%
Japan
Number of hires 101 196 109 153 121
Hire rate 1 2.7% 5.0% 2.8% 4.3% 3.4%
U.S.
Number of hires 1,909 1,937 2,173 3,019 2,654
Hire rate 1 8.3% 8.3% 9.1% 12.4% 10.5%
1 Percentage of new hires in the total onboard head count; regular employees only.63        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesOther programs to support wellbeing (U.S.)
Our company offers many programs to help 
make it easier for employees to balance their 
various responsibilities. The following is a 
non-exhaustive sampling:
• Transportation services
• Backup dependent care
• Child-care support
• K–12 educational guidance
• Special-needs counseling
• Adoption assistance
For U.S.-based employees who are subject to a 
collective bargaining agreement, work-life benefits 
may be offered in accordance with the agreement. 
For employees based outside the U.S., the work-life 
benefits offered differ by location and may be subject 
to a collective bargaining agreement or local legal 
requirements.
Global flexible work arrangements
We believe flexible work arrangements offer a different 
way of working and have the potential to enhance 
employees’ commitment to the company, foster 
teamwork, increase productivity and support work-life 
effectiveness. The company has had a global flexible 
work arrangement policy since 2008.
In developing our global flexible work arrangement 
policy, we’ve challenged traditional assumptions about 
where and how work can and must be done. Flexibility 
reflects our belief that job effectiveness is determined 
by employee performance and results, not by the 
number of hours one is seen in the office. What is 
produced or accomplished is more important than when 
or where the work is done.
For more information, please visit the Employee 
Wellbeing  and Compensation & Benefits  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.GRI 401-3 Parental leave
We provide employees up to six weeks of paid parental 
time off for the birth, adoption or foster placement of 
a child. Paid parental time off is available to both birth 
and non-birth parents.
In addition to parental leave, employees receive 
separate, unpaid, job-protected leave to care for a 
newborn child, adopted child or child placed in foster 
care within six months (182 days) following the child’s 
birth, adoption or foster-care placement. GRI 401-2  Benefits provided to full-time 
employees
In the U.S., we offer a defined benefit pension plan 
as well as a 401(k) plan with company matching 
contributions. U.S.-based employees who are at least 
age 55, and those who have at least ten years of service 
after age 40, are eligible for subsidized medical benefits 
at retirement.
Outside the U.S., we have more than 80 pension plans 
(including defined benefit, cash balance, and defined 
contribution plans) in over 40 countries. These plans 
often supplement government-sponsored social 
security pension benefits to improve employees’ 
financial security through added retirement income.
Also in the U.S.:
• Financial planning through Ernst & Young (EY), a 
valuable benefit that can help employees when trying 
to decide which benefit options are right for their 
families, from a financial perspective
• Educational assistance, which provides financial 
support for higher education and access to student 
loan consolidation and refinancing options
• Banking through our company’s credit union, which 
offers competitive interest rates on savings accounts 
and lending64        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 403:  
Occupational Health & Safety 
(CR material topic: Occupational health and safety) 
Management approach 
As a global health care company, we strive to provide a 
safe and healthy workplace. 
We seek to eliminate work-related injuries, illnesses 
and unplanned events from our operations through 
comprehensive safety programs that are part of our 
environmental, health and safety (EHS) management 
system. 
Each year we set targets for leading and lagging safety 
metrics, including safety observations, near-miss 
reporting, peer safety audits, recordable injury  
rates and days away, reassignment or transferred 
(DART) rate. 
Everyone who works at our sites (i.e., all employees 
and non-employees) must follow the standards and 
requirements of our EHS management system. 
Compliance with these requirements is measured 
through the site audit processes for employees 
and non-employees, and through peer reviews for 
construction. 
Protecting our people, our communities and the 
environment is fundamentally important to the way our 
company operates. 
Our company strives every day to conduct business 
in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. 
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy 
workplace for our employees and to reducing the 
environmental impact of our operations around the 
world. Our core values are focused around promoting 
the health and safety of our employees and respect 
for the environment. For more information, please 
visit the EHS Management & Compliance  page on 
MSDresponsibility.com.In addition to complying with all applicable country, 
regional, state, provincial and local safety and 
environmental laws, we strive for Environmental, 
Health and Safety (EHS) performance that is among the 
best in the pharmaceutical industry. 
We also adhere to the following key operating 
principles: 
• Maintain a safe and healthy working environment for 
all employees, contractors and guests 
• Foster a culture of EHS excellence that is built 
on science, integrity, accountability, personal 
responsibility, collaboration and active employee 
participation 
• Seek to continuously improve our EHS systems, 
processes and standards 
• Minimize our impact on the environment by 
identifying and implementing approaches to reduce 
the resources we use during the design, development 
and manufacture of our products 
• Understand the potential hazards associated with our 
products and take action to minimize any potential 
risks or adverse impacts 
• Promote EHS excellence in our supply chain by 
entering into business relationships with partners 
that share our commitment to responsible EHS 
stewardship 
EHS governance
Our commitment to the environment and employee 
health and safety begins with the company’s Executive 
Committee, which has established the corporate 
EHS Council.
The EHS Council is composed of senior-level executives 
representing all business units, and is responsible 
for overall EHS governance, as well as for leading and 
driving enterprise-wide excellence in EHS management 
and performance. In 2019 the EHS Council formally met 
four times, with additional off-cycle communications 
as needed.The Council’s responsibilities include:
• Establishing EHS strategy, policy and business risk 
mitigation controls
• Ensuring cross-divisional engagement in the design 
and implementation of EHS business processes
• Sponsoring and implementing a sustainability strategy
• Monitoring the EHS performance of the company and 
establish continuous improvement targets
• Enhancing visibility and transparency of EHS risks, 
processes and issues
An EHS Standards Committee has been chartered by 
the Council to provide stewardship over the standards 
and enable business engagement in the development 
of new or revised standards. Each area of the business 
is responsible for executing against the standards, 
contributing to the development of programs, 
supporting internal audits and communicating 
significant EHS events. Divisional EHS compliance 
committees have also been established to manage, 
execute and resolve EHS issues as they arise.
The vice president (VP) of GSE is responsible for 
communicating to the company’s Board of Directors, 
Executive Committee and the EHS Council regarding 
progress on goals, objectives and metrics, as well 
as other material issues. In addition, the VP of GSE 
partners with business leaders to establish long- and 
short-term goals and performance metrics to drive EHS 
excellence.
Safety and environmental performance targets are 
included in divisional management objectives.65        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesInternational standards 
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy 
workplace for our employees and contractors, and 
to complying with all applicable safety laws and 
regulations. In addition, we aim for EHS performance 
that is among the best in the pharmaceutical industry. 
Our company has processes in place that are consistent 
with the International Labour Office (ILO) Code of 
Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational 
Accidents and Diseases (the Code) where governments 
have adopted the Code. In countries that have not 
adopted the Code, we report to governments as 
required by applicable law. 
For consistency across the company, and to enable 
us to compare our injury rates with those of other 
multinational companies, we use the U.S.-based OSHA 
record-keeping criteria for recording and tracking work-
related injuries and illnesses. We require all injuries, 
illnesses and incidents involving our employees to be 
reported and investigated to determine their cause. 
We also require that actions be taken to prevent 
recurrence. 
We have reviewed the ISO 18001 Standard but have not 
pursued certification at the corporate level because we 
believe that our current EHS management systems are 
robust and will help us to drive continuous improvement 
in our EHS programs and achieve our desired levels of 
EHS performance. Internal auditing
We have a detailed and rigorous EHS audit program.
Our global corporate EHS audit program is one way 
in which we identify and resolve compliance and 
performance issues within the company.
• Our audit leaders are full-time professional EHS 
auditors with extensive experience in auditing a 
broad range of EHS programs applicable to the 
company. The individual audit teams consist of EHS 
professionals with extensive site and subject-matter 
expertise. In many cases, particularly outside of 
the United States, our internal auditors work with 
independent consultants who have regulatory 
expertise in the laws of the host country.
• All audit findings are addressed through the 
development of corrective and preventive action 
plans (CAPA), which are reviewed, approved by 
the audit leader and regional EHS leader, and 
tracked to completion. This process includes senior 
management oversight.
• Findings from our audit program are communicated 
to appropriate parts of the organization so that 
learnings may be shared, and actions can be taken.
• Audit performance and key program metrics are 
reviewed as part of our governance process.
We use multiple factors to determine the audit 
frequency for our facilities, including facility size, 
operational complexity, compliance status and 
performance history. Our most complex operations are 
audited every year, and all manufacturing and research 
operations are audited at least every two years. Less 
complex facilities, such as sales and business offices 
are audited less frequently. In 2019, we performed 
55 corporate EHS audits of our facilities, covering 76 
percent of our manufacturing and research locations 
and involving 693 auditor days of onsite review 
activities.
Our most complex operations are audited every year, 
and all manufacturing and research operations are 
audited at least every two years.Certification
Our company is certified in the Responsible Care® 
Management System Technical Specification 
RC101.04.2013. The RCMS® recertification occurred  
on December 4, 2019.
Additionally, our corporate EHS management system 
is generally aligned with the requirements of the 
International Standards Organization (ISO), but we 
do not pursue certification under the Environmental 
(ISO 14001) or Safety (ISO 45001) frameworks at the 
global level. Some of our facilities have individually 
achieved ISO 14001 certification to meet customer 
requirements.
For more information on our initiatives, policies and 
accomplishments, please visit the Employee Safety  
and EHS Management & Compliance  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 403-1  Occupational health and safety 
management system
The Global Safety and Environment (GSE) department 
is responsible for the global EHS Management System 
which is based on the “Plan, Do, Check, Act” model. 
This enables us to assess and continually improve our 
practices over time. The model is implemented globally 
through a set of interwoven business processes that 
span the corporation: 
• Our planning process includes developing goals, 
objectives and metrics based on a review of our 
company’s performance, EHS programs, applicable 
regulations and external factors that may impact  
our business (PLAN) 
• Activities are performed by using standards, 
guidelines and tools that are integrated into  
the EHS Management System and include  
specific expectations for sites and operating 
organizations (DO) 66        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices• Governance committees, from the executive-
level EHS Council through site-based compliance 
committees, review business unit performance and 
progress against objectives throughout the year. 
EHS audits are also performed throughout the year. 
(CHECK) 
• Corrective actions and continuous-improvement 
initiatives are established to resolve EHS concerns 
that have surfaced during periodic assessments, 
audits and routine surveillance of the regulatory 
landscape. We track our corrective actions centrally 
to ensure proper oversight. (ACT) 
We seek to eliminate work-related injuries, illnesses 
and unplanned events from our operations through 
comprehensive safety programs that are part of our 
EHS management system. We also work to minimize 
the frequency and severity of safety and environmental 
incidents by focusing on proper facility design, process 
controls, operation and maintenance procedures, 
protection systems and emergency-response 
capabilities. 
Our global safety program is designed to drive a  
proactive safety culture and reinforce the link 
between our leadership behaviors and our safety and 
environmental objectives. We believe that through 
visible management, leadership and employee 
engagement, we can increase the awareness of hazards 
and help employees make the right choices when it 
comes to safety, health and the environment — both  
on and off the job. 
We address the following areas in our approach to 
employee and contractor safety: 
• Process safety 
• Non-routine hazardous work 
• Industrial hygiene 
• Biological safety 
• Motor-vehicle safety • Ergonomics 
• Emergency preparedness and response 
• Loss prevention 
• Capital projects construction safety 
• Safety for non-company personnel 
GRI 403-2  Hazard identification, risk 
assessment, and incident 
investigation
We work to minimize the frequency and severity of 
safety and environmental incidents by focusing on 
proper facility design, process controls, operation and 
maintenance procedures, protection systems and 
emergency response capabilities.
Our global safety program is designed to drive 
a proactive safety culture and reinforce the link 
between our leadership behaviors and our safety and 
environmental objectives. We believe that through 
visible management, leadership and employee 
engagement, we can increase the awareness of hazards 
and help employees make the right choices when it 
comes to safety, health and the environment — both 
on and off the job. One example of leadership and 
employee engagement is our active site safety 
committees that drive program implementation 
and address safety issues collaboratively between 
management and employees.
Our injury and illness data are consolidated into a 
central system, enabling us to analyze trends and focus 
our efforts to continually improve. We communicate 
significant incidents, near-miss events and workplace 
conditions that could represent risks to our operations 
and sites around the world. We also proactively 
share corrective and preventive actions across our 
operating locations to allow all sites to learn from the 
improvements we make.Process safety
Our process safety program identifies and controls 
risks associated with manufacturing our human and 
animal health products. The program applies not 
only to operations that are subject to process safety 
regulations, but also to our pilot plants, manufacturing 
operations and utility areas where process hazards may 
exist. In addition, we have implemented a structured 
chemical-reaction-hazard review program for our 
research laboratories.
In the early stages of product development, we 
conduct chemical reaction and thermal testing of 
our intermediate materials and products to identify 
potential reactivity, fire and explosion hazards 
and environmental risks. This testing continues 
throughout each product’s life cycle to assure that we 
are aware of and can appropriately manage process 
risks. Global process safety professionals work with 
operations and engineering personnel to conduct 
process-hazard analyses and hazard and operability 
studies to thoroughly evaluate our operations. These 
structured reviews take place during process design, 
initial start-up and throughout the life of the process to 
ensure that our facility design, equipment, operating 
controls and maintenance procedures are effective in 
controlling process-related hazards.
Non-routine hazardous work
In recognition of industrial safety trends and our own 
internal assessments, we have refined our global 
approach to managing safety during non-routine 
maintenance and repair activities, as these work 
activities are a leading cause of serious and fatal 
injuries across industries. We have developed global 
safety standards to minimize the potential for serious 
incidents when our employees are working at heights, 
entering confined spaces and working on or near 
machinery, piping and electrical systems. This global 
effort is focused on creating a rigorous, error-free and 
safe approach to performing these non-routine high-
hazard work activities.67        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesCapital projects construction safety
We have a strong construction safety program with 
a focus on zero harm to people, property and the 
environment. Our Global Engineering Solutions (GES) 
group oversees hundreds of contractors and thousands 
of skilled craftworkers on our construction projects 
worldwide. Safety is integrated into all stages of our 
construction projects, beginning with the concept and 
design phases and carried through to detailed design 
and construction.
Our construction safety program mandates pre-job 
planning, hazard assessments and daily safety 
audits. We also conduct monthly peer reviews by 
bringing together in-house engineers, contractors, 
EHS and other partners to conduct thorough project 
safety evaluations and sharing of best practices. We 
completed 97 peer safety reviews in 2019, covering 
92 percent of our active projects.
Within the last two years the construction industry 
has seen a negative trend related to availability of 
contractor and craft resources. The impacts of this 
trend are management of resource availability issues, 
varied levels of experience, and safety competencies. 
GES uses a hyper-care program adding additional 
supervision and safety oversight to new contractors, 
high risk work scope contractors and less experienced 
contractor craft. 
Additionally, GES uses a rigorous pre-qualification 
program through ConstructSecure (external 
prequalification service/program) to evaluate, score 
and prequalify every contractor and subcontractor 
evaluating their safety program, past performance, 
incident rates, experience modifier rate (EMR), training 
verification of craft and review any regulatory citations 
prior to allowing them to bid on any projects.Safety for non-company personnel
We frequently work with integrated facility 
management (IFM) partners whose employees perform 
work at our sites. These contractors are required 
to follow their organization’s safety procedures but 
must ensure they are consistent with our company’s 
EHS standards and procedures. Additionally, they are 
required to identify and monitor compliance activities 
associated with their scope of services and meet 
safety-related performance objectives.
Our IFM partners pre-qualify the contractors that they 
use at our sites, provide those contractors with safety 
training, perform EHS inspections and monitor EHS 
performance.
Contractors are required to report and investigate all 
incidents and near-miss events. They also work with 
site-based EHS contacts to identify and implement 
corrective and preventive actions, which are tracked to 
completion. Our internal facility managers monitor IFM 
partner compliance with all EHS requirements.
Contractors working at our sites that are not managed 
by our IFM partners are pre-qualified using the same 
process as our embedded contractors, including 
verification of safety training. These contractors are 
assigned internal company liaisons who monitor safety 
and environmental compliance, perform observations 
of their work and verify that necessary corrective 
actions are taken.
GRI 403-3  Occupational health services
Global Health Center of Excellence
We established the Global Health Center of Excellence 
(CoE) in 2019 that includes our company’s Industrial 
Hygiene, Biosafety, and Ergonomics programs. By 
integrating these disciplines into a single organization, 
the company can more effectively manage worker safety and promote employee health. The Global Health 
CoE improves worker safety and employee health by 
focusing on four vital areas:
• Governance
• Risk management
• Implementation and operation
• Program management
Through the Global Health CoE, we protect employees, 
customers, vendors, partners, and neighboring 
communities by identifying chemical, physical, and 
biological hazards; assessing exposures; and properly 
controlling risks. By systematically maintaining rigorous 
attention to sustainable risk management principles 
and controls, we can do a better job of protecting our 
stakeholders worldwide, enabling the organization 
to focus on discovering, developing, and providing 
innovative products and services that save and improve 
human and animal lives around the world.
To accomplish this, we challenge our stakeholders, 
executive team, and ourselves to anticipate hazards, 
evaluate risks, and provide effective and sustainable 
solutions to control both.
GRI 403-5  Worker training on occupational 
health and safety
Training is critical to building worldwide employee 
competencies that will improve compliance, reduce 
risks and drive continuous performance improvement.
We have a global standard that defines the EHS training 
expectations for employees in three categories:
• Manager training covers specific management 
responsibilities with regard to safety and 
environmental compliance and promoting a “safety-
first” culture
• EHS professional training is designed to expand 
technical expertise and improve our EHS capabilities 
around the world68        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices• Employee training covers the specific information 
our employees need to perform their jobs in a safe 
and environmentally compliant manner, focusing 
on hazards they encounter on the job and the 
corresponding control measures
Site EHS professionals complete an assessment of 
the activities performed at their sites and ensure that 
relevant topics are included in their site training plans. 
They develop employee training curricula to comply 
with internal and regulatory training requirements 
specific to their country. These training programs 
are reviewed periodically to ensure that they remain 
current. Our EHS training program materials are 
available in both instructor-led and e-learning formats. 
We also conduct periodic web-based seminars to inform 
EHS professionals of changes in regulations, standards 
and company practices.
GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health
Industrial hygiene
Our industrial hygiene program protects employee 
health throughout all stages of research and 
manufacturing. Our professionals identify chemical, 
physical, and biological hazards to assess exposures and 
control risks. Based on industry-leading best practices, 
we accomplish this through a hierarchy of controls.
These are:
1.  Prevention
2.  Substitution
3.  Engineering
4.  Administrative
5.  Personal protective equipment (PPE)For example, when designing new processes and 
facilities, we build safety into our designs organically, by 
eliminating risks, substituting less hazardous processes 
or materials, and installing effective engineering and 
operational controls. We also confirm the ongoing 
effectiveness of these controls after installation 
through a robust monitoring program.
When dealing with existing processes and facilities, 
we use a similar approach. First, we seek to eliminate 
hazardous materials and processes. When impossible, 
we use less hazardous substitutes and then evaluate 
potential engineering controls to mitigate the 
remaining risk. Where engineering controls are 
insufficient or not feasible, we establish effective work practice controls including those that may require 
selected types of PPE.
Biological safety
Our biological safety program professionals protect 
our employees, customers, vendors, partners, and 
neighboring communities by systematically identifying, 
assessing, and controlling biological risks associated 
with the research, development, and manufacture of 
our vaccines and therapeutic proteins.
Our biological risk management team drives safety by 
setting high performance expectations for governance, 
controls, strategy, planning, management, reporting, 
policies, processes, and corporate culture.
69        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGlobal safety performance12015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Workplace safety
Recordable Injury Rate (RIR) 0.48 0.35 0.33 0.30 0.30
RIR percentage change -17% -27% -6% -9% 0%
Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.22 0.13 0.13 0.10 0.11
Fatalities 2 1 0 0 2 0
Motor vehicle safety
Collisions per million miles (CPMM) 3 12.41 9.48 7.29 6.93 7.01
Cases by business area (#) Lost-time cases Recordable cases
Facility Management 1 6
Global Human Health (GHH) 39 79
Global Support Functions (Legal, HR, IT, S&E, et al.) 3 5
Animal Health 5 15
Manufacturing (MMD) 35 110
Research (MRL) 8 25
Total 91 240
Note: Injury rates are subject to change over time, as new cases are added and case classifications change in accordance with our own 
requirements and applicable regulatory requirements. 
1 LTIR/RIR: Calculated per OSHA methodology.
2 All fatalities were transportation-related, except for one high-risk work fatality in 2018.
3 CPMM: Reflects both personal and business use of company-owned or -leased vehicles.GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries 70        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesIn 2019, we placed additional emphasis on proactively 
assessing existing processes and equipment that 
presented ergonomic risks. Formal plans drove risk 
assessments and an engineering control feasibility 
process was established to better mitigate risk factors 
following the hierarchy of control principles.
We have worked steadily to drive down our workplace 
injury rates.
In 2019, our lost-time injury rate was 0.11, a ten percent 
increase from 2018. Our recordable injury rate was 
0.30, the same rate as the prior year. This is our third 
consecutive year in the first quartile when compared 
against our pharmaceutical industry peers. There were 
no fatalities in 2019.
Last year, 30 percent of our recordable injuries were 
related to slips, trips and falls, with “struck-by/
caught-in” and ergonomic-related injuries accounting 
for 28 and 13 percent of the total number of injuries, 
respectively. We continue to focus our efforts on 
reducing these types of injuries. In addition to our focus 
on the safe design of new facilities, we proactively 
address existing risks through the hierarchy of controls, 
focusing on eliminating high-risk tasks and improving 
engineering controls.Capital projects construction safety1, 22015 2016 2017 2018 2019
RIR 0.87 0.53 0.59 0.73 0.42
DART30.38 0.26 0.32 0.28 0.15
Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0
Facility management contractor safety42015 2016 2017 2018 2019
RIR NA NA NA 0.71 0.55
LTIR NA NA NA 0.47 0.42
Fatalities NA NA NA 0 0 
NA: Not Available.
Note: Injury rates are subject to change over time, as new cases are added and case classifications change in accordance with our own 
requirements and applicable regulatory requirements. 
1 LTIR/RIR: Calculated per OSHA methodology.
2 Primarily reflects capital projects over $100,000 managed by our global engineering group.
3 DART: days away, reassigned or transferred, calculated per OSHA 300 methodology.
⁴ Injury rates for IFM partners; reporting initiated in 2018.Slips-trips-falls 29.6%
Struck-caught 28.5%
Motor vehicle 19.6%
Ergonomic 13.3%
Other 3.3%
Chemical exposure 3.3%
Non-ergonomic 1.3%
Physical/environmental exposure 1.3%
Biological exposure 0.4%Recordable injuries by 
causal factors (2019)171        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesSlips-trips-falls 29.6%
Struck-caught 28.5%
Motor vehicle 19.6%
Ergonomic 13.3%
Other 3.3%
Chemical exposure 3.3%
Non-ergonomic 1.3%
Physical/environmental exposure 1.3%
Biological exposure 0.4%Recordable injuries by 
causal factors (2019)1
Global Human Health 43%
Manufacturing 38%
Research 9%
Animal Health 5%
Global Support Functions 3%
Facilities Management 1%Lost-time injuries by 
business area (2019)1 
In 2019, 20 percent of our company’s recordable injuries 
were related to motor vehicle collisions. While we 
had a 1.1 percent increase in the number of collisions, 
normalized for miles traveled in 2019 versus the prior 
year, it is still significantly lower than previous years. 
Our global vehicle safety program includes a standard 
duty of care by holding both employees and managers 
accountable for achieving safe driving expectations.
Construction
In 2019, we received one safety excellence award and 
one runner up award for two of our projects safety 
management program from the construction user 
round table (CURT). CURT is a global organization 
that provides an international forum for the exchange 
of information and expertise to improve safety, 
productivity and competitive advantage for the 
construction industry.In 2019, we logged 9.3 million construction hours 
globally and achieved zero injuries on 96 percent of our 
capital construction projects. Our 2019 construction 
safety recordable injury rate (RIR) of 0.42 reflects a 
decrease over our 2018 rate of 0.73 and achieving a dart 
rate of 0.15 almost half of last year’s 0.28, showing a 
drop in the severity of contractor injuries.
In 2019, we had a significant increase in the number 
of construction hours and capital projects being 
implemented outside the U.S., where contractor 
safety cultures and performance can be less 
stringent. Even so, our injury rates continue to 
improve and be significantly better than construction 
industry averages.
1 May not total 100% due to rounding.In 2019, we had no high consequence work-related ill 
health, as we have had none of these over the past 
12 years. In 2019, 90 percent of injuries in 2019 were 
injuries suffered in low risk/routine tasks. The top 
two injury categories included slips, trips and falls 
from the same elevation, and hand and finger cuts 
requiring stitches.
Non-employee
In 2019, our IFM partners had a total recordable injury 
rate (RIR) of 0.55 and a lost-time injury rate (LTIR) of 
0.42. Our major IFM providers’ injury rates continue to 
be significantly better than industry averages.
For more information, please visit the Employee Safety 
page on MSDresponsibility.com.72        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 404: Training & Education
Whether it’s helping invent the next breakthrough 
treatment or simply challenging and supporting one 
another for ongoing development, our culture is about 
applied curiosity.
The Global Learning and Development organization 
drives business performance by preparing our 
workforce to find ways to help the company serve 
patients. The primary focus is boosting our employee’s 
ability to accelerate growth, reimagining ways of 
working and improving operating model economics. 
This is accomplished by building the skills and 
capabilities of our workforce to accelerate talent, 
improve performance and mitigate risk through 
relevant continuous learning experiences. This 
includes, but is not limited to, building leadership and 
management skills, as well as providing technical and 
functional training to all employees.
The skill sets needed to continue supporting the 
company’s vision, mission and future are constantly 
evolving. Additionally, how our employees learn is 
continually changing. As a result, we continuously 
evaluate our organizational capability development 
needs aligned to our corporate strategy, as well as 
trends in employee development that are proven to 
drive business impact.
This allows us to focus on fostering a culture of 
continuous learning that leads to higher levels of 
performance. We are evolving how we design learning 
experiences, leveraging the science of learning. We are 
focusing on what the experience is like for the learner, 
ensuring it places them at the center and addresses 
their needs. This includes evaluating and leveraging 
new technologies that allow employees to share best 
practices and learn from each other, in addition to 
providing opportunities for hands-on learning.For more information on our initiatives, policies 
and accomplishments, please visit the Learning & 
Development  page on MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 404-1 Average hours of employee training
GRI 404-2  Programs for upgrading employee 
skills and transition assistance 
programs
Training and education 2016 2017 2018 2019
Total course completions for all employees (in millions) 4.2 5.3 4.4 5.3
Hours of training for all employees (in millions) 1 2.1 2.6 2.2 2.7
Average course completions per employee 60 48 43 55
1 Based on average of 30 minutes per course.  73        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesTools and resources
Our current talent management system supports 
company-wide performance management, 
development, talent reviews and succession planning. 
It helps ensure that our workforce is aligned with 
company objectives and focused on their ongoing 
professional development. The system allows 
managers and employees to keep track of business 
and development priorities, performance ratings, 
career aspirations, job experiences, skills, language 
proficiency, certifications and education.
Managers and employees meet throughout the year to 
discuss progress and accomplishments against their 
priorities. Emphasis is placed on creating a culture  
of ongoing coaching and future-focused feedback. At 
year-end, colleagues assess the impact employees have had on the organization, their team and their 
own development. This leads to annual performance 
reviews of employees at all levels (except those subject 
to collective bargaining agreements) to guide company 
decisions relating to development, compensation 
and rewards.
Employee performance is measured, in part, by 
how well employees demonstrate our leadership 
behaviors. We seek to emphasize not just what an 
employee achieves, but also how he or she achieves it. 
It is critical to our company that the annual incentive 
bonus is determined, in part, by demonstration of our 
leadership behaviors.Throughout the year, managers discuss with each of 
their employees his or her strengths and development 
opportunities to align on ways to grow capabilities 
and skills.
Build the Best Teams & Talent
This global program is intended to help the organization 
learn, grow and achieve. Based on neuroscience, it gives 
employees practical strategies and tools they can use to 
effectively share and receive more frequent feedback 
from diverse stakeholders and increase the quality of 
performance conversations.
Management and leadership programs
Management Foundations is a comprehensive program 
that focuses on building core, common and critical 
knowledge and skills for new managers. Using a variety 
of learning methods, new managers are trained on what 
they need to know and do to be effective in their role 
and to establish foundational management skills.
In addition, we offer programs for experienced 
managers focused on areas like strategic planning, 
innovation and influencing others.
Team and individual development
We have programs that provide skill trainings and tools 
that support building and maintenance of effective 
teams, including Leading High Performing Teams, 
Virtual Teaming, Assessing Team Performance, 
Teaming Fundamentals and Insights Discovery.
In addition, individual developmental assessments may 
be used to identify strengths and developmental areas 
as a way to prepare employees for higher-level positions 
or changes in their current job. These assessments 
prioritize developing leaders that will create a positive 
work environment and motivate other employees 
to contribute to the company goals. Based on the 
employees’ behavior, personality or skills, and feedback, 
these assessments are used to create an action plan 
and individual development goals.
74        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesKey talent focus
We advance the learning and development of our global 
key talent at all levels of the organization to support the 
advancement of our talent pipeline and diversity and 
inclusion strategy.
The learning experiences include:
• General Management Acceleration Program
• The Business Leadership Program
• MSD Leadership Pathway
• The Women’s Leadership Program
• Emerging Women’s Leadership Conference
 • Women in Manufacturing Management
• Diverse Leader Program (U.S. only)
• Enterprise Leadership Program
• Executive Acceleration Experience
• Leadership Development Center
Our partners
Through careful consideration, partnerships have been 
formed with global diverse thought leaders to support 
the Key Talent Portfolio. We work with these external 
partners to provide the highest quality and impactful 
learning experience.
Examples of our partnerships include:
• General Management Acceleration Program: 
?What If! consulting, part of (Accenture) and Duke 
Corporate Education
• Business Leadership Program: Duke 
Corporate Education
• MSD Leadership Pathway: Saïd Business School and 
the University of Oxford
• Women’s Leadership Program: Cornell University
• Diverse Leader Program: Center for 
Creative Leadership
• Executive Acceleration Experience: ?What If! 
consulting part of (Accenture)For more information on our training and education 
programs, please visit the Learning & Development  
page on MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 404-3  Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance reviews
Performance reviews 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Executives 1 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Middle management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Line supervisors 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Non-managers 2 94% 94% 93% 94% 94%
1 “Executives” refers to the first two levels below the chief executive officer.
2 All “non-managers” (previously “individual contributors”) including those who are subject to a collective bargaining agreement (unions).75        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 405:  
Diversity & Equal Opportunity
(CR material topic: Diverse and inclusive workplace)
Management approach
Technology provides unprecedented access 
to information and enables many patients to 
make better, informed health care decisions. 
Despite this, some patient groups — especially 
diverse populations — experience greater health 
care disparities, lower health literacy and are 
disproportionately impacted by chronic illnesses. 
By cultivating a diverse and inclusive workforce that is 
gender-balanced and richly represented across race, 
ethnicity, faith, disability, veteran and LGBT status, we 
promote the discovery of the broadest range of possible 
medical solutions to address the needs of all patients.
We empower our people to drive business performance 
and we elevate the next generation of leaders — gender 
balanced and globally diverse — to solve complex 
business problems that support our patients’ needs.
Through Global Diversity & Inclusion (GD&I) industry-
leading best practices, we surround our highly coveted 
employees with an inclusive environment enriched 
through psychological safety, empowerment, principles 
of belonging and empathy. Employees feel valued and 
respected and know that they are critical to business 
performance.
By leveraging the strength of our diverse employee 
talent throughout the enterprise in a holistic manner, 
we drive greater synergy and impact throughout the 
lifeline of each business unit. This produces a ripple 
effect with powerful outcomes, such as advances in 
diversity in clinical trials, strong customer relationships, Our current talent management system supports 
company-wide performance management, 
development, talent reviews and succession planning. 
It helps ensure that our workforce is aligned with 
company objectives and focused on their ongoing 
professional development. The system allows 
managers and employees to keep track of business 
and development priorities, performance ratings, 
career aspirations, job experiences, skills, language 
proficiency, certifications and education.
Managers and employees meet throughout the year to 
discuss progress and accomplishments against their 
priorities. Emphasis is placed on creating a culture of 
ongoing coaching and future-focused feedback. At 
year-end, colleagues assess the impact employees 
have had on the organization, their team and their 
own development. This leads to annual performance 
reviews of employees at all levels (except those subject 
to collective bargaining agreements) to guide company 
decisions relating to development, compensation 
and rewards.
Employee performance is measured, in part, by 
how well employees demonstrate our leadership 
behaviors. We seek to emphasize not just what an 
employee achieves, but also how he or she achieves it. 
It is critical to our company that the annual incentive 
bonus is determined, in part, by demonstration of our 
leadership behaviors.
Throughout the year, managers discuss with each of 
their employees his or her strengths and development 
opportunities to align on ways to grow capabilities 
and skills.
For more information on our training and education 
programs, please visit the  Learning & Development  
page on MSDresponsibility.com.enhanced commercialization strategies, drug discovery 
and development practices, corporate reputation and 
trust, and shareholder value.
Our company’s business objectives for diversity 
and inclusion are fully aligned to drive long-term, 
sustainable business performance.
In addition, our objectives are aligned with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards for diversity 
and equal opportunity and with the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of advancing 
gender equality, providing work and economic growth, 
reducing inequalities within and among countries and 
strengthening global partnerships.
Our GD&I strategic framework focuses on the following 
priorities:
• Strengthen the foundational elements of diversity
• Ensure accountability to drive an inclusive culture
• Continue to leverage diversity and inclusion to ensure 
business value
• Transform the environment, culture and 
business landscape
Governance
Our commitment to GD&I begins in the boardroom and 
is reinforced by our Chairman and CEO.
Our Board of Directors has a clearly stated Diversity 
Policy, which recognizes that maintaining a truly 
diverse membership, including educational and 
professional background, gender, race, age, sexual 
orientation, ethnic and national background and other 
differentiating personal characteristics promotes 
inclusiveness, enhances the Board’s deliberations, 
and contributes to the Board’s overall effectiveness 
to better represent the long-term interests of the 
company and its shareholders.76        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesOur company’s CEO publicly advocates for diversity and 
inclusion as a strategic business imperative through the 
following commitments:
• Approving diversity metrics and reviewing progress 
against aspirational talent goals for women and 
under-represented ethnic groups (UEGs)
• Driving accountability through meetings with the 
company’s leaders to review key strategic initiatives 
centered on GD&I
• Conferring with the company’s Vice President of 
Human Resources and Chief Diversity Officer on 
innovation opportunities and business solutions
• Participating in company-wide events, town halls 
and fireside chats that provide platforms for sharing 
leadership perspectives and for energizing and 
building engagement among employees around the 
importance of diversity and inclusion
Our GD&I Center of Excellence (CoE) oversees diversity 
and inclusion across all business practices. We deploy 
five diversity ambassador teams to ensure integration 
into our business and people strategies. 
These teams are as follows:
The Global Disability Inclusion Strategic 
Council
The Council recognizes and values the importance 
of a disability-confident workforce and understands 
how full inclusion of people with disabilities increases 
creativity and innovation for its employees, customers, 
external partners and suppliers.
The GD&I Extended Human Resources 
Leadership Team
This group of Human Resources professionals supports 
the global organization by ensuring the successful 
adoption and integration of diversity and inclusion 
capabilities into all practices, procedure and systems. 
A key outcome is to enable a diverse & inclusive 
culture — one that attracts, engages, develops, 
motivates and retains top talent globally.Employee Business Resource Group (EBRG) 
Executive Leadership Council
With ten EBRGs representing different constituencies 
and 19,000 members worldwide, the Council 
strengthens and diversifies the global leadership 
pipeline and provides culturally relevant insights that 
drive our success.
GD&I Business Consortium
This Consortium, comprised of members from Business 
Strategy, Supplier Diversity, Clinical Trials and other key 
business functions, enhances our business performance 
through GD&I best practices — creating a competitive 
business advantage and driving shareholder value. 
Our company’s Chief Finance Officer acts as the 
Consortium’s executive sponsor.
GD&I Line Advisory Council
Serving as an advisory role to the Vice President, 
GD&I CoE, the Council provides input and feedback 
on the GD&I strategy and key initiatives and 
offers perspectives on areas of progress, as well as 
opportunity, in relation to integrating GD&I into the 
company’s business and people strategies.
Our company has made meaningful commitments 
to diversity and inclusion and pledges support to the 
following organizations:
United Nations Women’s Empowerment 
Principles
In 2009, we signed onto the United Nations Women’s 
Empowerment Principles. These principles reflect 
seven areas of focus designed to promote gender 
equality in business. Research shows that at the current 
rate of progress, it will take 202 years for women to 
achieve economic parity. The full economic participation 
of women in the workforce will generate $12 trillion to $28 trillion in GDP . We remain committed to equity 
across gender, race and ethnicity as a strategy to 
drive business results and advance our mission. We 
continue to establish leadership programs to promote 
equality and publicly report on our progress to achieve 
gender equality.
The International Labour Organization (ILO) 
Global Business and Disability Network (GBDN)
We are a member of the ILO Global Business and 
Disability Network, a partnership of multinational 
companies, national employers’ organizations, business 
networks and advocacy groups working in collaboration 
to promote the inclusion of persons with disabilities 
in the workplace. We believe that disability-inclusive 
companies provide a better workplace for all their 
employees. We strengthen our ability to maximize 
the full potential of our workforce and we are better 
positioned to respond to diverse patient needs through 
this partnership.
One Mind at Work — Mental Health
Our company’s CEO signed the One Mind at Work 
Charter pledging to make mental health a priority 
by protecting, supporting and enhancing employee 
wellbeing in the workplace.
CEO ACT!ON for Diversity and Inclusion®
Our company’s CEO signed a pledge outlining a specific 
set of actions to cultivate a trusting environment 
where employee ideas are welcomed, employees 
feel comfortable and safe, and all are empowered to 
advance work in D&I. Because of this commitment, the 
company has rolled out Unconscious Bias education  
to all 70,000 employees worldwide and has participated 
in several closed-door sessions with other CEOs and 
Chief Diversity Officers to engage in dialog to drive 
meaningful change.77        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesIn addition, we establish clear, measurable goals with 
our leaders and throughout the business enterprise in 
the following areas.
A commitment to fair and equitable pay is 
longstanding
Pay equity across gender, race and ethnicity is a 
very important principle at our company and we 
continuously monitor and evaluate our pay practices 
and policies to ensure that we are paying equitably.
We approach the issues of pay equity holistically 
through in-depth analysis of employee compensation 
as well as analysis of our pay practices. We also 
promote awareness and education of people managers 
to prevent unconscious bias in our pay practices. We 
chartered a Pay Equity Council which is chaired by our 
Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer and our SVP of 
Global Compensation and Benefits and is comprised of 
leaders across GD&I, Compensation and Benefits,  
and Employment Legal.
We will continue our focus on pay equity in the future. 
By doing so, we believe it furthers our goal of being 
the employer of choice for employees of diverse 
backgrounds, supports our efforts to attract and retain 
the best talent and supports our efforts to reward 
performance consistent with our Leadership Standards.
Women and under-represented ethnic group 
(UEG) representation
Leaders and managers have clear diversity and inclusion 
goals included as part of their annual performance 
reviews. In addition, we utilize specific, time-bound 
action plans with targets to increase the representation 
of women globally and UEGs in the U.S. leadership 
positions. We have diversity metrics and review 
progress against aspirational talent goals for women 
and UEGs at the most senior levels of the organization.Fostering a culture of inclusion
Leaders and managers are held accountable for 
maintaining an inclusive culture across the business 
enterprise. We acknowledge those who excel in 
demonstrating inclusive behavior through the 
company’s INSPIRE Awards. Launched in 2019, INSPIRE 
fosters a culture of recognition and engagement by 
empowering all employees to recognize others. By the 
end of 2019, INSPIRE recorded 359,000 recognition 
moments across 85 countries. Learn more about how 
we engage with employees .
U.S. clinical operations
We have set goals to ensure appropriate diversity 
representation of patients participating in clinical  
trials  in relevant therapeutic areas. Learn more 
about our commitment to diversity in clinical trials  on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
Health literacy
Our company made significant improvements in 
reducing health care disparities and improving health 
literacy among patients, globally. Learn more about 
our commitment to addressing  health literacy  on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
For more information on our initiatives, policies and 
accomplishments, please visit the Global Diversity & 
Inclusion  page on MSDresponsibility.com.78        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 405-1   D iversity of governance bodies and 
employeesGender and ethnicity 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Women in the workforce 48% 48% 48% 49% 49%
Women in the workforce in the U.S. NR NR NR NR 50%
Employee base that is multi-cultural women (U.S.) NR NR NR NR 15%
Women on the Board 21% 23% 23% 23% 33%
Women in executive roles134% 31% 32% 32% 36%
Women on the senior management team234% 36% 39% 41% 43%
Women in management roles338% 39% 40% 41% 43%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups on the Board 21% 23% 23% 15% 17%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in executive 
roles (U.S.)20% 23% 23% 21% 26%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups on the senior management team (U.S.)18% 18% 17% 19% 21%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in the workforce (U.S.)26% 26% 26% 27% 29%
Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in management roles (U.S.)23% 23% 23% 25% 27%
New hires that were female 50% 51% 49% 51% 50%
New hires that were members of underrepresented ethnic groups (U.S.)33% 37% 36% 36% 33%
Note: Our company has publicly disclosed EEO-1 information since 1999. 
NR: Not reported.
1 “Executive” is defined as the chief executive officer and two structural levels below.
2 “Senior management team” is defined as the fourth structural level below the CEO.
3 “Management role” is defined as all other managers with direct reports not reflected in notes 1 or 2.79        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesEnvironment and Ethical Business Practices. We make 
it available in 26 languages.
Training
Training our company sourcing professionals on how to 
mitigate human rights related risks in our supply chain, 
including human trafficking and modern slavery risks, 
as well as general awareness training on our company’s 
Business Partner Code of Conduct.
Due diligence
Conducting appropriate due diligence and determining 
the risks — including those related to human rights, 
prior to entering a business relationship with a 
supplier — to determine that they can meet all our 
company’s expectations.
Contracts
Seeking commitment from suppliers to respect and 
abide by the principles set forth in our company’s 
Business Partner Code of Conduct through our 
contracts and agreements. Our standard contract 
templates contain an ethical business practice 
compliance clause.
Auditing
Performing Labor & Human Rights Audits and 
Environmental Health & Safety Audits at selected 
supplier facilities to verify their compliance with our 
company’s expectations, and by working with them 
to address identified compliance gaps in a responsible 
manner. In 2019, we performed over 30 Labor & Human 
Rights Audits.
Managing and monitoring
Managing and monitoring suppliers to ensure that they 
continue to meet our company’s expectations. We 
hold them accountable for meeting their contractual 
obligations and take appropriate action to address 
those that do not. Termination clauses are included 
in contracts.Responsible sourcing
Implementing procedures to ensure responsible 
sourcing of minerals. As stated in our Conflict Minerals 
Policy found on our corporate website, we endeavor 
to avoid the purchase of minerals (e.g., tin, tantalum, 
tungsten and gold) that directly or indirectly finance or 
benefit armed groups or perpetrators of serious human 
rights abuses.
We have a formal program to evaluate the risks for 
labor and human rights in our supply chain. Prior 
to contracting, all new direct suppliers (as well as 
certain new indirect and research suppliers in specific 
geographies) are required to complete and return 
a Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) 
for Ethics & Compliance. Pre-existing external 
manufacturing suppliers and contract manufacturing 
organizations also complete SAQs.
Our SAQ requires suppliers to answer a series of 
labor and human rights questions covering a range of 
subjects, including freely chosen employment, child 
labor, employment practices, employee disclosures, fair 
treatment, wages, benefits and working hours.
Each supplier’s responses are used to judge whether 
that supplier has programs and/or procedures in place 
to address potential risks for labor and human rights 
related deficiencies.
Since implementing the Labor and Human Rights 
program in 2015, we have conducted 234 onsite audits 
in countries identified as high risk for potential human 
rights violations. We track audit-related corrective and 
preventative actions to completion.
No incidents of child labor and/or young workers 
exposed to hazardous work were reported.
Additionally, we maintain a “Speak Up” tool 
(MSD ethics.com ) for any employee, supplier or 
business partner to report concerns, including those 
related to labor and human rights issues.
For more information, please visit the Human 
Rights  and Sourcing & Supplier Relations  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.GRI 412:  
Human Rights Assessment
Management approach
We expect appropriate standards of conduct and 
respect for human rights, consistent with our own, 
from our suppliers, contractors, vendors and external 
partners. We are committed to doing business with 
those that share our commitment to human rights and 
to the principles outlined in our Business Partner Code 
of Conduct.
Our practices are informed and guided by the 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative’s (PSCI’s) 
Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible 
Supply Chain Management , which set the standard for 
ethics, labor, health, safety and the environment for 
our industry.
GRI 412-2   Employee training on human rights 
policies and procedures
GRI 412-3   Investment agreements and 
contracts that include human rights 
clauses or underwent screening 
Within our supply chain, we work to meet our 
responsibility to respect human rights by:
Selection
Selecting suppliers that are socially responsible and 
who share our company’s commitment to ethics and 
integrity. We strive to obtain the goods and services 
we need to further our mission in a way that is lawful, 
efficient and fair.
Expectations
Setting and communicating our expectations of 
suppliers. We use our Business Partner Code of 
Conduct  to communicate our expectations for Human 
Rights, Labor & Employment, Health, Safety & 80        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 414:  
Supplier Social Assessment
GRI 414-1  New suppliers screened using social 
criteria
Please see GRI 412-2 and GRI 412-3 on pages 79  and 82.
GRI 415: Public Policy
GRI 415-1  Political contributions
We are committed to participating constructively and 
responsibly in the political process, and to providing 
clarifying analysis and information regarding the issues 
that affect our business and patient care.
In 2019, we contributed a total of $734,250 to support 
the campaigns of 339 candidates for state-level offices 
in 21 states plus the District of Columbia. We also 
supported state legislative leadership committees of 
both parties, industry-affiliated PACs, and national 
organizations representing elected state officials 
that meet periodically to discuss policy issues. Our 
representatives involved in state-government-affairs 
activities made the recommendations for specific 
contributions based on the budget and priorities 
approved by the Contributions Committee.
Outside legal counsel conducted a thorough review of 
all proposed contributions to ensure that they were 
permitted under state law. Final approval was provided 
by the Corporate Secretary.
The only other country we provide corporate 
contributions to candidates or political parties is 
Australia. These contributions are subject to the same 
policies and governance procedures discussed above.
For more information, please visit the Public Policy  
page on MSDresponsibility.com.GRI 416:  
Customer Health & Safety
(CR material topic: Product quality and safety)
Management approach
Our quality strategy is focused on ensuring that we 
maintain a reliable, compliant supply of products to our 
customers and that we have an engaged and capable 
workforce ready to deliver and sustain success.
We operate in a highly complex and ever-changing 
regulatory landscape driven by many different factors, 
including novel scientific discoveries, technological 
advancements, natural disasters, global pandemics and 
cybersecurity events. However, we strive to ensure the 
overall quality and continuous supply of products by 
aiming for two simple objectives: zero market actions 
and zero unsatisfactory inspection outcomes.
Patient safety is at the forefront of what we do. We are 
using and exploring new technological advancements 
such as integrated IT tools, artificial intelligence (AI) 
and streamlined digital platforms to further enhance 
how we manufacture high-quality products.
We apply and adhere to a strict set of quality standards, 
and we have policies and procedures in place to 
identify, measure, control and sustain product-quality 
excellence.
Our Global Quality Compliance organization is 
responsible for establishing the standards that ensure 
that all of our company’s products are manufactured, 
tested, released and distributed in full compliance with 
regulatory requirements.
We continuously strive to improve these standards 
in order to enhance procedures and ensure ongoing 
compliance with Current Good Manufacturing 
Practices (CGMPs).We provide appropriate and ongoing training on CGMPs 
for our employees, so they are prepared to perform 
their duties effectively. Our system not only ensures 
that all applicable employees are trained, but also 
monitors the effectiveness of the training provided.
Our company’s medicines and vaccines are widely 
tested before they are approved for marketing. This 
testing is governed by a comprehensive regulatory 
scheme and by our research policies. We assess the 
safety of our products in rigorous nonclinical and clinical 
trials prior to seeking regulatory approval. Following 
approval of our drugs, vaccines or devices, the company 
continues to monitor their safety profiles.
Our company’s chief medical officer holds overall 
responsibility for the benefits and risks of our pipeline 
and marketed products, provides medical oversight for 
all clinical programs, supervises the development and 
implementation of medical policies (including those 
related to data transparency and the sharing of clinical 
data), and has responsibility for the design, execution 
and implementation of pre-registration expanded 
access (“compassionate use”) programs.
Our company’s Global Clinical Safety and 
Pharmacovigilance (GCS&PV) function manages a 
global system for the collection, review and reporting 
of Adverse Experience (AE) reports received by 
our company worldwide, and for the continuous 
assessment of product safety. Our company’s chief 
safety officer holds overall responsibility for the safety 
of our products.
To learn more, please visit the Product & Patient 
Safety  and Quality & Safety Standards  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.81        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesQuality and product safety 2015 2016 2017 2017 2019
Number of product recalls in the United States13 1 0 2 1
Percentage of sold units recalled during a given year 
(recall rate globally)10.07% 0.01% 0.01% 0.14% 0.01%
1 Definition of Recall Classifications: http://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm049070.htm#RecallClassifications.
GCP/PV inspections 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
GCP/PV inspections by regulatory agencies of the 
company or clinical trial investigators that led to significant 
fines, penalties, warning letters or product seizures10 – 0 0 0
1 Complete response letter received for Sugammadex (MK-8616) in 2013; complete response letter received for Januvia (sitagliptin; MK-0431) in 2016.GRI 416-2  Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning the health and safety 
impacts of products and services
SASB 210a.1   Management process for ensuring 
quality and patient safety during 
clinical trials globally
SASB 210a.2  FDA Sponsor Inspections related to 
clinical trial management and 
pharmacovigilance that resulted in: 
(1) Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI) 
and (2) Official Action Indicated (OAI)
SASB 250a.1  Products listed in the FDA’s 
MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human 
Medical Products database
SASB 250a.2  Fatalities associated with products 
as reported in the FDA Adverse Event 
Reporting System
SASB 250a.3  Recalls issued, and total units 
recalled
SASB 260a.1   Methods and technologies used to 
maintain traceability of products 
throughout the supply chain
SASB 260a.2  Process for alerting customers 
and business partners of potential 
or known risks associated with 
counterfeit products
Our industrial hygiene risk assessments require 
evaluation of the effectiveness of control measures. 
Risk-based exposure monitoring is also conducted 
to verify the effectiveness of installed engineering 
controls, and improvements are made as needed. 
We use conservative safety factors to set low de 
minimis levels for environmental releases until we have 
sufficient data to fully understand their impacts on 
aquatic organisms. Levels are reviewed and updated as 
new data become available.Please visit the U.S. Food & Drug Administration’s 
(FDA) MedWatch website  for more information 
on product safety alerts. You may visit the  FDA’s 
Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) website  for 
up-to-date information on fatalities associated with 
product use.
Our company has long been committed to sharing the 
results of our clinical trials, regardless of their outcome, 
in a timely manner. If a clinical trial of a marketed 
product is terminated early for safety reasons, we will 
promptly disclose medically important information 
to regulatory authorities and the public, update 
the status on clinical trials.gov within 30 days, and 
submit a manuscript to a journal (or post a summary 
online) within 12 months after the last patient’s last 
visit occurs. If the trial was terminated for efficacy 
reasons, the results will be disclosed within 12 months 
after the last patient’s last visit occurs. Summaries of 
terminated trials will provide information about patient 
disposition, safety and adverse experiences, as well as 
an explanation as to why the trial was terminated early. We comply with all applicable laws and regulations 
associated with the registration of clinical trials in 
publicly accessible registries and subsequent posting 
of the results from these trials. We have put into place 
the processes necessary for compliance with the Food 
and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 
and the European Clinical Trial Directive 2001/20/EC, 
including those related to clinical trial registration and 
posting results.
For those who analyze, report or publish the results 
of clinical trials, a clinical trial registry also provides 
information on trials in progress and the ability to track 
such trials over the course of development. Company-
sponsored and -conducted clinical trials involving 
patients assigned treatment with investigational and 
marketed products are registered at trial initiation  
on www.clinicaltrials.gov , www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu  
and www.encepp.eu .82        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesIn accordance with our public policy position statement, 
all investigational studies in human subjects are 
conducted in a manner consistent with laws, regulations 
and guidelines for the protection of human subjects, 
including those issued by the International Council 
for Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP) . 
However, individual country regulations and guidelines 
should remain the primary determinant of specific 
requirements for the conduct of medical research.
We have a commitment, where appropriate, to 
the study of diverse patient populations, including 
minorities, women and children, in our clinical trials in 
all regions of the world. As a result, we strive to obtain 
information among diverse populations, ensuring a 
thorough evaluation of the safety and efficacy of our 
medicines and vaccines. These efforts allow us to seek 
regulatory approvals throughout the world and thereby 
offer our medicines globally to patients who need them.
Clinical trial site monitoring, design, conduct 
and oversight
In addition to complying with our company’s global 
standards, the conduct of our clinical trials adheres 
to the International Council for Harmonisation Good 
Clinical Practice  standards and to the principles that 
have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki.
When appropriate, an internal standing Data-
Monitoring Committee (DMC) of our research 
laboratories’ senior managers reviews unblinded data 
from ongoing trials in a pre-specified, scientifically 
acceptable manner. The goals of the DMC are to protect 
the safety of trial participants and assess whether the 
risk/benefit profile is favorable.
The DMC’s recommendations are communicated 
internally to relevant scientists and can be distributed 
externally to clinical investigators, review boards or 
regulatory agencies, as appropriate.Counterfeit products
Our efforts in the area of advocacy, engagement 
and awareness involve raising public and stakeholder 
awareness of the risks posed by counterfeits, and 
advocate for increased enforcement to shape relevant 
regulatory requirements. In 2019, we continued our 
commitment to increasing our focus in this area and 
have strategically enhanced our ability to make a 
long-term impact on patient safety through various 
education campaigns.
We are committed to cooperating with relevant 
government agencies, other pharmaceutical 
manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors, health 
professionals, consumer groups and key related 
organizations in fighting the problem of counterfeit 
pharmaceutical products and in educating the public 
about the risks of counterfeit products and how to 
protect against them.
This effort includes a multipronged approach to 
communicating the threat that counterfeit medicines 
pose and to mitigating this threat as effectively as 
possible, while recognizing that it cannot be entirely 
eliminated.
Collaboration and information-sharing in order to raise 
public and stakeholder awareness of the issue and risks 
are a crucial focus of our product integrity program. 
Through active partnerships with other pharmaceutical 
companies, and with organizations focused on security, 
patient safety and public health, we provide effective 
advocacy on high-priority anti-counterfeiting policy 
initiatives.
For more information, please visit the Product 
& Patient Safety , Quality & Safety Standards , 
Product Integrity , and Sales & Marketing  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.GRI 417: Marketing & Labeling
GRI 417-1  Requirements for product and 
service information and labeling
GRI 417-2  Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning product and service 
information and labeling
The label in our product packaging contains information 
on possible side effects and, if appropriate, how to 
avoid some potential health problems. We include 
contact details on our corporate website for patients, 
caregivers and health professionals to report adverse 
experiences in the United States. Outside the United 
States, adverse events are reported in accordance with 
any additional local country laws and practices.
Depending on label changes and their context, we may 
determine, in consultation with regulatory authorities, 
that more extensive communications are appropriate. 
In those situations, we work with regulatory authorities 
to communicate to health care professionals in a timely 
manner so that they can inform patients through 
appropriate mechanisms. Communications to health 
care professionals may include “Dear Health Care 
Provider” letters and media statements.
Product label reviews
The ongoing oversight and monitoring of our product 
labels are a major focus of our safety efforts. Our label 
review teams monitor information on our products and 
work with our product RMS teams to develop or update 
product labeling. We regularly communicate relevant 
information to regulatory authorities worldwide.83        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesHealth literacy
There are many examples of health literacy in action 
across our company’s product lifecycle, including our 
early clinical trials, informed consent, diversity in 
trials, patient labeling, instructions for use, packaging 
and patient education. Beginning in 2019, new clinical 
trials included teach-back and cultural competence 
as part of their investigator training. Early in 2020, 
our commercial organization launched a process to 
integrate health literacy reviews more consistently 
across all therapeutic areas.
In 2019, the FDA approved our sixth health literate 
patient label which was developed with iterative 
patient input. There are two more health literate labels 
currently in development, including one vaccine label.
U.S. Medical Forums
We deliver balanced medical and scientific information 
to health care professionals within the U.S. through 
our company’s Medical Forums, which are conducted 
by external speakers. Speakers are selected on the 
basis of their expertise in the relevant subject matter. 
By attending one of our Medical Forums, health care 
professionals participate in interactive learning on 
therapeutic and health care industry topics. The goal 
of these interactions is to help attendees achieve 
improved medical results for their patients.
With our strict standards for conducting these 
Medical Forums, we comply with the PhRMA Code 
on Interactions with Health Care Professionals  as 
well as with U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) regulations, which assure that any product 
presentation is appropriately balanced with information 
regarding both the product’s potential benefits and its 
risks, and is consistent with approved product labeling.Sales and marketing 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Number of warning letters or untitled letters from 
OPDP 1 or APLB 2 in the U.S.0 0 0 0 0
1 OPDP: Since September 2011, the Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and Communication (DDMAC) is now the Office of Prescription Drug 
Promotion (OPDP).
2 APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch (APLB) of the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.
For more information, please see the Product & 
Patient Safety , Health Literacy , and Sales & Marketing 
Practices pages on MSDresponsibility.com.
GRI 417-3  Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning marketing 
communications
SASB 270a.1  Monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with false 
marketing claims
SASB 270a.2  Code of ethics governing promotion 
of off-label use of products
We believe that our marketing, sales and advertising 
activities make an important contribution to medicine 
by informing our customers of treatment options 
based on the most recent scientific information and 
findings from rigorous clinical studies. Our sales and 
marketing practices are governed by external laws and 
regulations and industry codes of conduct, and by our 
own global Code of Conduct , our corporate policies and 
procedures, and our  ethics and compliance program .
For more information, please see our answers to GRI 
417-1 and GRI 417-2 on page 82  as well as visit the 
Product & Patient Safety , Health Literacy  and Sales & 
Marketing Practices  pages on MSDresponsibility.com.GRI 418: Customer Privacy
(CR material topic: Data privacy and information security) 
Management approach
Information about our company, products and people is 
one of our most valuable assets. We are committed to 
ethical use, management and protection of information.
Our commitment applies not only to our company’s 
information, but also to the information entrusted 
to us by others. Our tools, processes and procedures 
ensure that we appropriately use and safeguard 
information throughout its life cycle to ensure integrity 
of information and to prevent unauthorized access 
and disclosure. We have developed and continue to 
improve upon a comprehensive, global, state of the 
art information security and cyber resiliency program 
to enable our company to fulfill its mission: inventing 
for life.
There is increased pressure for companies to adopt 
the EU general data protection regulation compliance 
(GDPR) as the basis for their own privacy laws and 
regulations. Our company is well positioned in that we 
have based our global program on the GDPR.84        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesIn addition, there is increased regulatory scrutiny and 
interest in companies that seek to collect and monetize 
personal information without full transparency and 
permission from data subjects. Regulators will continue 
to tighten up requirements in these areas and levy large 
fines. Again, we are well positioned for these changes 
due to the deployment of a comprehensive closed-
loop privacy program and our active engagement with 
regulators around the world.
The global privacy office reports into the company’s 
Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer who reports directly 
to our CEO. Oversight of the privacy program is 
conducted within the privacy and data protection board 
(PDPB). This is a cross functional board that connects 
to the corporate compliance committee. The PDPB 
meets quarterly.
Global privacy program
Over the past 19 years, we have developed and 
continually improved a comprehensive global privacy 
program that promotes organizational accountability 
for privacy, data governance and data protection 
across our business and with our collaborative partners 
and suppliers.
We were the first company in the world to obtain 
regulatory approval in the European Union (EU) for 
Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) based in part on our 
existing Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) 
Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPRs) certified program.
This achievement demonstrates that organizations can 
rely on common internal standards and processes to 
govern international data transfers across both the EU 
and APEC regions to simplify their ability to address the 
growing regulatory challenges in this area.
Our holistic approach to privacy has its origins in 
biomedical research ethics and the protection of 
participants in the research studies that we sponsor 
and conduct. We have adapted human subject research 
ethics standards for risk-benefit analysis, transparency, anonymization, coding and prior review to other 
activities and processes involving data about people.
Privacy values
We have established a set of privacy values to guide all 
of our privacy, data stewardship and data protection 
decisions. These core tenets serve as the foundational 
ethical framework for our comprehensive global privacy 
program and our compliance with the continually 
evolving legal and regulatory standards for privacy and 
data protection.
For more information, please visit the Privacy , 
Cybersecurity  and Clinical Research  pages on 
MSDresponsibility.com.
Our global privacy values
Respect
We recognize that 
privacy concerns 
often relate to the 
essence of who we 
are, how we view the 
world and how we 
define ourselves, so 
we strive to respect 
the perspectives and 
interests of individuals 
and communities 
and to be fair and 
transparent in how 
we use and share 
information about 
them.Trust
We know that trust 
is vital to our success, 
so we strive to build 
and preserve the trust 
of our customers, 
employees, patients 
and other stakeholders 
in how we respect 
privacy and protect 
information about 
people.Prevent 
harm
We understand that 
misuse of information 
about people can 
create both tangible 
and intangible harm 
for individuals, so 
we seek to prevent 
physical, financial, 
reputational and other 
types of privacy harm 
to individuals.Comply
We have learned that 
laws and regulations 
cannot always 
keep pace with the 
rapid change in 
technologies, data 
flows, and associated 
shifts in privacy risks 
and expectations, so 
we strive to comply 
with both the spirit 
and the letter of 
privacy and data 
protection laws 
and regulations in a 
manner that drives 
consistency and 
operating efficiency 
for our global business 
operations.85        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 418-1  Substantiated complaints regarding 
breaches of customer privacy and 
losses of customer data
Global privacy program 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Number of countries in which we conduct privacy 
compliance verification and risk assessment137 137 137 137 137
Number of concerns regarding privacy practices, 
breaches of privacy and losses of personal data that 
were substantiated1143 227 123 315 29
Number of privacy breaches requiring notification by 
Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., to 
individuals or government authorities0 1 0 2 2
1  Privacy concerns include all concerns about our privacy practices escalated to our company’s Privacy Office. Concerns are evaluated to determine 
if they are a potential privacy incident or not. Those that are a potential privacy incident are investigated against our own privacy policies. In 
2015, because of the scope of lost or stolen devices known to be encrypted, we ceased inclusion of lost or stolen MSD devices in our incident 
metrics. Reporting in 2017 was impacted by the Not-Petya cyber-incident. Increase in substantiated concerns in 2018 due to changes in reporting 
practices stemming from new requirements in the EU (GDPR). In 2019, because of a change in our incident reporting methodology, we removed 
non-privacy quality issues, and this is the reason for the decrease between 2018 and 2019.86        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI Index
General Disclosures
GRI 102: Organizational Profile
102-1 Organization name Page 9
102-2 Primary brands, products, and services Page 9
102-3 Headquarters location Page 9
102-4 Location of operations Page 9
102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 9
102-6 Markets served Page 9
102-7 Scale of the organization Page 11
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 11
102-9 Supply chain Page 12
102-10 Organizational changes during the reporting period Page 14
102-11 Precautionary principle Page 14
102-12 External initiatives Page 15
102-13 Membership associations Page 16The GRI Standards represent global best practices for reporting publicly on a 
range of economic, environmental and social impacts.
The table below summarizes where these disclosures can be found 
throughout this report.87        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 102: Strategy
102-14 CEO letter Page 16
GRI 102: Ethics and Integrity 
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior  Page 16
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 16
GRI 102: Governance
102-18 Governance structure of the organization  Page 17
102-19 Delegation of responsibility for sustainability topics  Page 17
102-20 High-level accountability for sustainability topics  Page 17
102-21 Access to the board Page 17
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Page 17
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Page 17
102-24 Board nomination and selection process Page 18
102-25 Board conflicts of interest Page 18
102-26 Board and executive roles Page 18
102-29 Board identification of ESG impacts, risks, and opportunities  Page 18
102-30 Board ESG review of risk management process Page 18
102-33 Board communication Page 18
102-35 Remuneration policies for the board and senior executives Page 18
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Page 18
102-37 Remuneration shareholder resolutions Page 1888        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices102-38 CEO/employee pay ratio Page 18
GRI 102: Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 Stakeholder engagement Page 18
102-41 Union representation Page 18
102-42 Stakeholder identification Page 18
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 18
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised  Not reported
GRI 102: Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in financial statements Page 21
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Page 21
102-47 Material aspects included Page 21
102-48 Restatements Page 22
102-49 Reporting changes Page 22
102-50 Reporting period Page 22
102-51 Date of most recent report Page 22
102-52 Reporting cycle Page 22
102-53 Report contact Page 22
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Page 22
102-55 GRI content index Page 22
102-56 External assurance Page 2289        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesEconomic
GRI 201: Economic Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 23
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Page 24
201-3 Benefit plan coverage Page 24
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts
Management 
approachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the company’s strategyPage 24
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Page 24
203-2 Indirect economic impacts Page 26
GRI 205: Anticorruption
Management 
approachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the company’s strategy. Page 30
205-2 Communications and training on anticorruption Page 31
GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior
Management 
approachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the company’s strategyPage 33
206-1 Anti-competitive behavior Page 33
Environmental
GRI 302: Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (Scopes 1 + 2)  Page 3990        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices302-4 Energy reductions Page 39
GRI 303: Water
303-1 Water as a shared resource Page 42
303-2 Water discharge-related impacts Page 44
303-3 Water withdrawal Page 44
GRI 305: Emissions
305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Page 47
305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Page 47
305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Page 47
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 47
305-6 Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Page 49
305-7 NOx, SOx and other emissions Page 49
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Page 52
306-3 Significant spills Page 54
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance
Management 
approachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the company’s strategyPage 54
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Page 57
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
308-1 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria Page 5891        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesSocial
GRI 401: Employment
Management 
approachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the company’s strategyPage 59
401-1 New employee hires and turnover Page 61
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Page 63
401-3 Parental leave Page 63
GRI 403: Occupational Health & Safety
Management 
approachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the company’s strategy. Page 64
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Page 65
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Page 66
403-3 Occupational health services Page 67
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Page 67
403-6  Promotion of worker health Page 68
403-9 Work-related injuries Page 69
GRI 404: Training and Education 
404-1 Average hours of employee training Page 72
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Page 72
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews Page 7492        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
Management 
approachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the company’s strategy. Page 75
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 78
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment
Management 
approachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness 
of the company’s strategy. Page 79
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures  Page 79
412-3 Investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or underwent screening  Page 79
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment
414-1 New suppliers screened using social criteria Page 80 
GRI 415: Public Policy
415-1 Political contributions Page 80 
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 
Management 
approachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the company’s strategy. Page 80 
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services  Page 81
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Page 82
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling Page 82
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Page 8393        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesGRI 418: Customer Privacy
Management 
approachExplanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the company’s strategyPage 83
418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data  Page 8594        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social IndicesSASB Index
Safety of Clinical Trial Participants 
210a.1  Management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials globally  Page 81
210a.2 FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance that resulted in: (1) Voluntary Action 
Indicated (VAI) and (2) Official Action Indicated (OAI) Page 81
210a.3 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in developing countries  Not reported
Access to Medicines 
240a.1 Access to health care for priority diseases and in priority countries  Page 26
240a.2 Products on WHO’s List of Prequalified Medicinal Products  Page 26
Affordability & Pricing
240b.1 Settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that involved payments and/or provisions to delay 
bringing an authorized generic product to market Not reported
240b.2 Percentage change in: average list price and average net price across U.S. product portfolio compared to previous year Page 20
240b.3 Percentage change in: list price and net price of product with largest increase compared to previous year Page 20
Drug Safety 
250a.1 Products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database  Please visit the FAERS MedWatch  
page for more information.
250a.2 Fatalities associated with products as reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System  Please visit the FAERS MedWatch  
page for more information.
250a.3 Recalls issued, and total units recalled  Page 81The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is dedicated to 
improving the effectiveness and comparability of corporate disclosure on 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors.
The table below are the SASB Standards for the Health Care sector, and 
Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals industry, with page numbers where that 
information can be found throughout this report.95        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices250a.4 Amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or disposal  Not reported
250a.5 FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP)  Not reported
Counterfeit Drugs
260a.1 Methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the supply chain  Page 81
260a.2 Process for alerting customers and business partners of potential or known risks associated with counterfeit products  Page 81
260a.3 Actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit products  Not reported
Ethical Marketing
270a.1 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims  Page 83
270a.2 Code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products  Page 83
Employee Recruitment, Development, and Retention
330a.1 Talent recruitment and retention efforts for R&D personnel  Page 61
330a.2 Voluntary and involuntary turnover rate for: executives/senior managers, mid-level managers, professionals, and all others Page 61
Supply Chain Management
430a.1 Facilities and Tier I suppliers participating in the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium audit 
program, or equivalent Not reported
Business Ethics
510a.1 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption and bribery  Not reported
510a.2 Code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals  Page 16
Activity Metrics
000.A Patients treated (#)  Page 11
000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in R&D (Phases 1-3)  Pipeline96        
MSD  ESG Progress Report 2019/2020This website of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., USA 
(the “company”) includes “forward-looking statements” 
within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the 
U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
These statements are based upon the current beliefs 
and expectations of the company’s management and 
are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. There 
can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products 
that the products will receive the necessary regulatory 
approvals or that they will prove to be commercially 
successful. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate 
or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may 
differ materially from those set forth in the forward-
looking statements.
Risks and uncertainties include but are not limited 
to, general industry conditions and competition; 
general economic factors, including interest rate and 
currency exchange rate fluctuations; the impact of the 
recent global outbreak of novel coronavirus disease 
(COVID-19); the impact of pharmaceutical industry 
regulation and health care legislation in the United 
States and internationally; global trends toward 
health care cost containment; technological advances, 
new products and patents attained by competitors; 
challenges inherent in new product development, 
including obtaining regulatory approval; the company’s 
ability to accurately predict future market conditions; 
manufacturing difficulties or delays; financial instability 
of international economies and sovereign risk; 
dependence on the effectiveness of the company’s 
patents and other protections for innovative products; 
and the exposure to litigation, including patent 
litigation, and/or regulatory actions.Forward-looking 
Statement
The Office of Corporate Responsibility  
2000 Galloping Hill Road (K1-3181)  
Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A.
Copyright © 2020 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.,  
a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., 
U.S.A. All rights reserved. 
Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., is known  
as MSD outside the United States and Canada.The company undertakes no obligation to publicly 
update any forward-looking statement, whether as a 
result of new information, future events or otherwise. 
Additional factors that could cause results to differ 
materially from those described in the forward-looking 
statements can be found in the company’s 2019 Annual 
Report on Form 10-K and the company’s other filings 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
available at the SEC’s Internet site (www.sec.gov).
No Duty to Update
The information contained in this website was current 
as of the date presented. The company assumes no 
duty to update the information to reflect subsequent 
developments. Consequently, the company will not 
update the information contained in the website and 
investors should not rely upon the information as 
current or accurate after the presentation date.Design by addison.com