ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 1 of 48        Sustainability Report   June 2020          ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 2 of 48    Report scope and reference   This Sustainability Report focuses on Economic, Environmental , and Social Governance (ESG) issues that encompass  our global operations , including those of our  international subsidiaries.
Our approach is to include standards where  applicable to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Any gaps in the data are noted in the relevant sectio n.
The report focuses on the three financial years ended 30 June 2017 –2019.
This report also provides background to  issues relevant to these periods.
This report should be read with documents filed with the US Securities Exchange Commission, in particula r our 2019  Form 10 -K annual report and our 2019 Form DEF 14A proxy statement  for shareholders.
These filed documents take  precedence over this ESG report in the event of any unintended inconsistency.
All references to dollars are US dollars unless otherwise noted.
References in this font  are hyperl inked to their source  or page reference.
The preparation of the report has been informed by the reporting guidelines of the GRI Reporting Framework.
APPENDIX 1 at the end of the documents matches the information in the report with the relevant GRI indicato rs.
While this report has been prepared with due care , it has not been externally assured.
Further information can be obtained by contacting Justin Italiano at ResMed Inc., Sydney, at +61 2 8884 1000 , or by  visiting the c ompany’s multilingual website at www.resmed.com .
ResMed Inc.
9001 Spectrum Center Blvd   San Diego, CA 92123   United States of America           ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 3 of 48    Table of Contents    .
1   Report scope and reference .
2   RESMED IN BRIEF .
6   Locations and business  .
6   GOVERNANCE  .
11  OUR PEOPLE  .
17  OUR PRODUCTS  .
26  COMMUNITY  .
30  ENVIRONMENT  .
35  Appendix 1 – References to GRI core metrics  .
47           ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 4 of 48    OUR APPROACH TO ESG   ResMed  has a mission to help people sleep better, breathe better, and live healthier, higher -quality lives outside the  hospital.
In 2019, we improved 105 million lives and our ambitious goal is to improve 250 million lives in out- of- hospital healthcare in 2025.
As I write this letter in May 2020, the world remains in the throes of a global respiratory  pandemic caused by a novel coronav irus, and its deadly consequence: COVID -19.
Amid significant loss of life around  the world, and broad economic impacts from lockdowns in many countries, we are grateful that we can be part of the  solution as we live our mission.
During this pandemic, many tens of thousands of people have accessed ResMed ventilators and mask systems,  allowing them to breathe while  their own immune system fight s against th is virus.
We are proud of tripling our  production of ventilators during this crisis .
At the same time, we have focused on our core business es: help ing the 936  million people worldwide who suffocate every night with sleep apnea, the 400 million people worldwide who suffer  from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and millions more who benefit from a streamli ned out-of-hospital   healthcare ecosystem  that includes home medical equipment to skilled nursing facilities, to home health and hospice,  and beyond.
ResMed is proud to provide innovative, digital, cloud -connected solutions to people living with sleep apnea , COPD,  asthma, and other chronic diseases in over 140 countries.
For over 30 years, our mission has been encompassed in  what we call the “triple aim”: to improve quality of life, to prevent the progression of chronic disease, and to reduce  unnecessary hea lthcare costs.
What ESG means to us   ResMed’s overall strategy is grounded in our business sustainability because innovation, ethical business practices,  and operational excellence are precisely what enable us to save and enrich millions of lives.
In short,  our approach to  the environment, our social communities, and best -practice governance is simply part of our DNA.
In fact, this type of  altruistic foundation  overlaps fully with our business goal of improving 250 million lives in out- of-hospital healthcare :  it is key to our growth so we can serve hundreds of millions of people.
ResMed’s core strength is our team – we have 7,500+ people who have chosen to join us, and become ResMedians to  help us serve customers in over 140 countries worldwide.
We’re deeply  committed to understanding the needs of our  team and engaging deeply with their professional and personal development.
We are laser -focused on hiring,  developing, and advancing the best talent in the field of healthcare.
Our corporate culture demands high levels of  innovation and a rigorous code of ethics and values – starting with tone at the top, and all the way through to the  customer, including our most important customer, the patient.
Meeting these standards of excellence every day  requires a global team, dedicated to innovation and excellence.
Each year, and with ever -increasing detail, new research reveals the role healthy sleep plays in personal and  population health.
Untreated sleep apnea is strongly linked to heart failure, hypertension, diabetes,  obesity, COPD,  peri-operative risks , and beyond.
Untreated sleep apnea is also an occupational health and safety hazard, preventing  sleep -deprived workers and their companies from meeting their full potential of safety and productivity.
The potential  econ omic benefits to national healthcare budgets are, on a different measure, equally significant.
For all these  reasons, pursuing healthy sleep and healthy breathing is important to us all and demands our collective focus.
Our approach to ESG issues follows this corporate purpose and drives our priorities.
What we do behind the scenes to  deliver high -quality, innovative products and services touches many of the ESG issues reflected in this report.
We  invest heavily in research and development, both through our  own world -class team efforts, and in partnership with  key outside research organizations that help broaden our impact.
Our corporate culture demands and values this  innovation, not just in medical science, but also in disease awareness, policy development , and in our own team’s     ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 5 of 48    operating excellence.
Strict legal compliance and an emphasis  on safety, quality, environmental, privacy, and data  security are all integral elements to the global ResMed culture.
We know our performance, products , and solutions ar e only as good as our people.
We seek the best people we can  find, and support them to be the best they can be.
We understand that people –  our ResMedian team, our suppliers,  our partners in healthcare delivery, our distributors, and our ultimate customer,  the patient –  all need an environment  and culture that encourages and promotes the best outcomes.
We are proud of ResMed’s sound environmental and governance record, and that our social contribution is  substantial in the communities we serve locally and worldwide.
On behalf of 7,500+ ResMedians, thank you for your support to help us in our mission and vocation: to help hundreds  of millions of people sleep better, breathe better, and live healthier, higher -quality lives away from the hospital.
Thank  you al so for your diligence in reading this ESG report from our ResMed team of experts in the field.
Yours sincerely,     Michael “Mick” Farrell   CEO, ResMed   Key ESG indicators   Table 1 captures our significant data.
We present more detailed data on the indicated pages, for our primary  manufacturing and distribution sites over the three  years .
Table 1: Key ESG performance indicators   Economic Performance  June 30  2019  June 30  2018  June 30  2017   Economic value generated and distrubited (US$’000) :1     Revenue  2,606,572  2,340,196  2,066,737   Cost of goods sold2 1,069,987  978,032  864,992   Salaries and wages  644,145  573,561  532,747   Interest paid to lenders  36,156  28,355  28,236   Taxes paid to government3 114,255  205,724  77,396   Donation s to research foundation  800 750 600  Donations to other community purposes  1,726  1,000  235  Investment in research and development  180,651  155,149  144,467   Environmental Performance      Total energy use (GJ)  128,136  127,676  129,990       ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 6 of 48    Energy intensity (GJ/$m rev.)  49.2  54.6  62.9   Total  scope I and II greenhouse gas emissions (tCO 2e) 19,193  19,353  22,290   Significant NO, SO, and other air emissions  0 0 0  Total water withdrawal (kL) * 60,246  62,514  64,083   Percentage  of waste recycled by weight **  60%  57%  76%   Paper use (sheets per person per year)  1,121  1,512  1,298   Monetary value of environmental fines and sanctions  $0 $0 $0  Social performance      Annual voluntary employee turnover ***  14.8%  18.9%  16.7%   Fatalities  0 0 0  Lost time injury rate (injuries per million employee hours)  2.84 2.22  1.66   Percentage senior (VP or above) executives , female  32%  27%  21%   Material breaches of marketing and labelling regulations  0 0 0  Monetary value of fines and sanctions for production of market -related  non-compliance  $0 $0 $0    * Major sites Australia and the US only  ** Global ex -Switzerland  *** Voluntary     1 Detailed financial accounts are disclosed in our 2017 Annual Report at:  http://investor.resmed.com/investor -relations/default.aspx    2 Includes all payments to third parties for materials and services used in production   3 Includes major income tax measures     RESMED IN BRIEF   Founded in 1989, and headquartered in San Diego, California , ResMed pioneer s innovative solutions that treat and  keep people out of the hospital, empowering them to live healthier, higher -quality lives.
Our cloud -connected medical  devices transform care for people with sleep apnea, COPD, and other chroni c diseases.
Our comprehensive out -of- hospital software platforms support the professionals and caregivers who help people stay healthy in the home or  care setting of their choice.
By enabling better care, we improve quality of life, reduce the impact chron ic disease, and  lower costs for consumers and healthcare systems in more than 1 40 countries.
Locations and business   Our principal global operations and functional support team locations are summarized below.
Our primary  headquarter sites in San Diego  and Sydney  are owned while all other sites are leased.
Table 2: ResMed site locations   Regions  Primary Locations  Full-Time  Employee  Equivalent  Roles   Americas  California: San Diego, Moreno Valley,  Chatsworth   Georgia: Atlanta, Peachtree Corners  2,812 Administration, manufacturing,  sales  and marketing, quality,  distribution, customer service,     ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 7 of 48    Kansas: Overland Park   Minnesota: Minneapolis   Nova Scotia: Halifax   Pennsylvania: Media   Wisconsin: Paddock Lake  product development, software  development   Asia Pacific  Australia, China, India, Japan, South Korea,  Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore  3,176  Administration, manufacturing,  sales and marketing, quality,  distribution, customer service,  product development, IT shared  services   Europe  Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Norway,  Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland ,  United Kingdom  1,252  Administration, distribution,  customer service, sales and  marketing, quality   Administration, product development , and distribution   ResMed’s corporate  headquarters is at its 230,000 -square -foot facility in San Diego, California , USA .
Further corporate  hubs are at Bella Vista (Sydney ), NSW, Australia;  Atlanta , Georgia, USA; and Munich- Martinsried, Germany.
Our principal research and development center i s in Sydney, with further research conducted at Chatsworth,  California , USA ; Dublin, Ireland; Halifax, Nova Scotia , Canada ; Munich -Martinsried, Germany ; and Singapore.
Distribution centers are located in Atlanta; Moreno Valley, California , USA ; Roermond, Netherlands; Abingdon, UK;  Basel, Switzerland; Lyon, France ; and Bremen, Germany.
Our German home healthcare services are managed from  Martinsried and Gremsdorf.
Manufacturing operations   Our principal manufacturing operations occupy a 155,000 -square -foot facility at our Sydney site and a 95,000 -square - foot facility in Singapore.
Other manufacturing is currentl y undertaken at our 174,000 -square -foot assembly and  distribu tion facility  in Atlanta , Georgia, USA, as well as another manufacturing site in Suzhou,  China.
Further  manufacturin g is conducted at Lyon, France ; Chatsworth,  California,  USA; and Johor Bahru, Malaysia.
Sales and marketing   We currently market our products in more than 1 40 countries , using a network of distributors and our direct sales  force.
 North America and Latin America  represent a pproximately 65% of net revenues.
Our products are typically  purchased by a home healthcare dealer  who then sell s our products to the patient.
The decision to purchase  our products is made or influenced by one or more of the following individuals or organizations: the  prescribing p hysician and their employees ; the home healthcare dealer; the insurer ; and the patient.
Our  field  sales organization includes regional territory representatives, program development specialists , and regional  sales directors.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 8 of 48    We also market our products directly to sleep clinics.
Patients who are diagnosed with obstructive sleep  apnea ( OSA) and pr escribed continuous positive airway pressure ( CPAP)  treatment are typically referred by  the diagnosing sleep clinic to a home healthcare dealer to fill the prescription.
The home healthcare dealer, in consultation with the referring physician, will assist the patient in selecting the equipment, fitting the patient  with the appropriate mask , and setting the flow generator pressure to the prescribed level.
 Europe and Asia Pacific represent a pproximately 3 5% of net revenues .
In Europe , we have wholly  owned  subsidiaries in Austria, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Norway, Netherlands, Poland,  Sweden, Switzerland , and the United Kingdom, and use independent distributors elsewhere.
In many  European countries , we sell our products to home healthca re dealers who then sell the products to patients.
In Germany, we also operate a home healthcare company that provides products and services directly to  patients and  receives reimbursement directly from third -party government or private insurance payers .
In Asia Pacific , we have wholly  owned subsidiaries in Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, New Zealand,  South Korea, and Taiwan , and use a combination of our direct sales force and independent distributors.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 9 of 48    Relevant awards   We have received the following recent awards relevant to our ESG performances:   Table 3: ResM ed awards , 2017–2019   Year  Award  Recipient  Awarded for   2019  “JUST 100” Forbes  ResMed  #1 Corporate Citizen in  Healthcare &  Equipment Services   2019  Canada’s Top 100  Employers  ResMed  Atlantic Canada’s Top  Employers   2019  Grad Australia  ResMed  Australia’s Top 100  Graduate Employers   2019  AAGE Top 75 Graduate  Employers  ResMed  Australian Association  of Graduate Employers   2019  CanadaStop100  ResMed  Nova Scotia’s Top  Employers   2019  “Best in KLAS”  MatrixCare  Long -Term Care  Software   2019  “Best Complete HME  Management Solution”  Brightree  HME Business New  Product Awards:  Brightree Business  Management Software   2019  “Best Specialized  Solution”  Brightree  HME Business New  Product Awards:  Brightree Patient Hub  app  2019  “Best Overall Health  Administration  Software”  Brightree  MedTech Breakth rough  Award: Home Health and Hospice EMR  solution   2019  “Dealmaker of the  Year”  ResMed  Medtech Insight   2019  “Top Workplace”  Propeller  Wisconsin State Journal   2019  “Intelligent Health  Association Award”  Propeller  Dignity Health:  improving patient care  and health delivery   2019  “Best Overall Medical  Device Product”  ResMed  MedTech Breakthrough  Award  for AirMini   2019  Good Design - Product  Design Category  ResMed  Good Design Australia  Awards, AirFitN30i and  AirFit P30i   2019  Winner for San Diego  Large Company  Leadership  ResMed (Mick Farrell)  San Diego Union  Tribune   2019  San Diego’s Top  Workplace  ResMed  San Diego Union  Tribune   2018  “JUST 100 ” Forbes  ResMed  Top Corporate Citizen      ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 10 of 48    2018  “Best in KLAS”  MatrixCare  Long -Term Care  Software   2018  Wisconsin Innovation  Award  Propeller    2017  MD+DI  ResMed  Medtech Company of  the Year (finalist)   2017  MD+DI  ResMed  Top Medical Device  Company to Work for   2017  “JUST 100” Forbes  ResMed  Top U.S. Corporate  Citizens   2017  “Best in KLAS”  MatrixCare  Long -Term Care  Software   2017  “50 Most Innovative  Companies”  Propeller  Fast Company   2017  “Australian Good  Design Awards”  ResMed  Best Design for CPAP,  CPAP Masks:  AirMini,  AirFit N20 , AirFit F20 ,  AirTouch F20              ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 11 of 48    GOVERNANCE    Our corporate governance principles  outline how we hold ourselves accountable to shareholders and stakeholders.
These principles address the operation of our board and its sub- committees ; strategic and succession planning; and  director qualifications.
Corporate governance   Our board has adopted corporate governance guidelines to assist in exercising its responsibilities in accordance with  our constitution and all applicable laws and regul ations.
These include the regulations of the US Securities and  Exchange Commission ( SEC) and the rules of both the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Australian Securities  Exchange (ASX ), on which ResMed is listed.
The guidelines are posted on our investor website, investor.resmed.com .
Our board will continue to evaluate its governance structures as ResMed’s business evolves to ensure that we manage the business for the long -term interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
A more detailed review of our  governance is provided in our annual  proxy statement  to shareholders, issued under section 14(a) of the Securities  Exchange Act.
Govern ance s tructure   ResMed is governed b y a board of eight directors and through four  standing board committees: Audit (3 directors),  Compensation (3 directors), Compliance Oversight (3 directors), and Nominating and Governance (3 directors).
Each  committee is composed  of independent directors.
Michael (“Mick”) Farrell has served as ResMed's chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors since  March 2013.
Robert (“Rob”) Douglas was simultaneously appointed as ResMed’s president, in addition to his  continuing role as chief operatin g officer.
Our founder, Dr .
Peter Farrell, is our non -executive chairman of the board.
Ron Taylor serves as our lead independent director.
Our board members have a variety of backgrounds, which reflects our continuing efforts to achieve a diversity of  view points , experience,  and knowledge as well as ethnicities and genders.
Our board is comprised of three female  directors and five male directors.
Board independence   All board members other than Peter  Farrell and Mick Farrell are independent under the listing standards of the NYSE,  with no material commercial or personal relationship with ResMed that would impair their independence.
Currently,  our independent directors and their tenures are as follows:  Mr. Rich Sulpizio and Mr. Ron Taylor since 2005; Ms. Carol  Burt since 2013; Ms. Karen Drexler since November 2017 ; Ms. Har jit Gill since November 2018; and J an De Witte since  May 2019 .
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 12 of 48    In February 2020, we adopted an annual election process for our board .
At our 2020 and 2021 annual stockholders’  meetings, the directors proposed for election will serve until the next year’s annual meeting.
Beginning with the 2022  annual meeting, all directors will be elected for terms lasting until the next year’s annual meeting.
There is no limit to the number of terms a director may serve, nor a set retirement age.
The board has adopted a  majority voting policy, under which an incumbent director who does not receive a majority of votes for re -election  must tender a resi gnation to the board.
The board will determine whether to accept or reject the tendered  resignation, and disclose the results and rationale within 90 days of the election.
The chair of the board’s Nominating and Governance Committee (currently Ron Taylor) also serves as our lead  director.
The lead director presides over meetings of our independent directors (generally held each quarter), acts as  a liaison between the independent directors and chairman, communicates with stockholders as appropriate, and fulfills other duties that support sound corporate governance.
Under our corporate governance guidelines, directors have direct access to company management to secure the information they need for their duties.
Board performance   Our board’s N ominating and G overnance Committee has the delegated purposes of:   • Evaluating the board’s overall effectiveness in representing stockholders and otherwise contributing to lasting  value creation at ResMed ;  • Assisting in selecting board and committee members ; and  • Reviewing developments in corporate governance practices.
The committee oversees an annual formal review of these matters, concentrating on the performance of the board as  a whole, as well as that of individual members.
The Nominating and G overnance Committee follows a process of  regularly reviewing board composition and board refreshment, with a long -term perspective, and maintains a  database of desired director skills and experience.
The performance of directors who are seeking re- election at the  end of their three- year term  is ultimately reviewed by stockholders through their votes at the annual stockholder  meeting.
Our independent directors review the performance of the chief executive officer annually.
Board and executive remuneration   Our board’s C ompensation Committee reviews cash compensation , benefits , perquisites, and equity compensation of  directors  and executives , including target and actual short -term incentives.
The committee’s in -depth review of director and executives ’ compensation is published in our proxy statement  to  stockholders before ResMed’s annual general meetings.
The principles governing our executive compensation program include:      ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 13 of 48    • Pay-for-performance.
Pay-for-performance , align ment  with stockholder interests , and largely at- risk  compensation are the cornerstones of our compensation program.
A significant portion of our executives’  compensation is at risk and tied to the achievement of pre- established short- term corporate financial objectives  through our annual cash incentive programs that our corporate officers earn based on achieving  our goals  relating to adjusted net sales and adjusted operating profit, weighted equally .
These two measures represent  fundamental financial metrics: top -line sales and the portion of those top -line sales that fall to the bottom  line.
Our executives in charge of a principal unit have 60% of their incentive opportunity tied to achieving set go als  for the same metrics at the business unit level and the remaining 40% tied to the corporate goals.
All payouts  are determined in accordance with these objective performance metrics.
Executive officer payouts ranged from  96% to 121% of target in F iscal Year 2019 with no discretion applied to the amount paid , with the payouts  reflect ing our strong performance and our rigorous goals.
• Provide market -competitive compensation .
Our objective is to provide a target total compensation program that  is competitive with similarly sized US -based public companies in the medical device and medical technology  industries with which we compete for executive talent.
The committee reviews ben chmark data for the  individual and for the group as a whole, but does not target a specific benchmark level.
For our executives, total  target compensation should reflect a relatively lower emphasis on salary and a higher percentage of pay at risk in the fo rm of an annual cash incentive and equity awards.
The guideline is broad, to recognize individual  situations, and also allows us to reflect the fact that we set challenging targets for our incentive programs.
• Make informed decision s.
The committee has retained FW Cook, Inc., an independent compensation consultant,  to advise the committee with respect to compensation matters for executive officers , and to perform a  comprehensive market analysis of our executive compensation program, pay levels , and relative operating  performance.
FW Cook performs no work for us other than its work providing executive compensation consulting services to the committee.
Risk and ESG oversight   While our full board retains general risk oversight, our board committees oversee particular risks, periodically  updating the full board.
The primary risk responsibilities for the committees are:      Audit Committee  Overseeing financial risk, capital risk , and financial compliance  risk, as well a s internal controls over financial reporting   Compensation Committee  Overseeing our compensation philosophy and practices , as well as   the balance between risk -taking and rewards to senior officers   Nominating and Governance  Committee      Evaluating each director’s independence and the effectiveness of  our corporate governance guidelines and code of business conduct, as well as  overseeing management’s succession planning        ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 14 of 48    Compliance Oversight  Committee  Reviewing and overseeing matters related to our compliance with  United States federal healthcare program requirements and the  obligations of ResMed Corp.
under the corporate integrity  agreement     Oversight of general business risks, including but not limited to material environmental and social risks, is retained by  the full board.
A company -wide business risk analysis is undertaken periodically by management.
The following ESG -related risks are among those that face the business:   • Government and private insurance plans may not adequately reimburse our customers for  our products ;  • Health care reform  policies and legislation , including the US Patient Protection , the Affordable Care Act , and  changes to the US F ood and  Drug Administration  (FDA)  510(k) process, may have material adverse effect s on  our industry and our results of operations ; and      ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 15 of 48      • Other changes to the FDA’s quality and testing standards, and failure to comply promptly with those standards,  may have an adverse effect on our business.
These are in addition to standard business ris ks such as threats from competition, fluctuations in currency exchange  rates, the challenge of supporting continued growth and business acquisitions, disruptions to supply, and intellectual  property claims ( see our 2019 annual report ).
Business integrity   The best protection of integrity is to instill a culture that values honesty and ethics: doing what’s right every day;  relying on our pe ople’s good judgment and sense of fairness ; reporting unethical behavior ; and taking appropriate  action.
All our directors, officers , and employees are nonetheless guided by our C ode of B usiness Conduct & Ethics,  which is published on our website .
The code summarizes the compliance and ethical standards we expect of our  people, the procedures for any suspected breach, and the consequences  of any substantiated breach.
The code also  constitutes ResMed’s code of ethics under US law and the New York Stock Exchange’s listing standards.
It deals with  conflicts of interest; confidential information; fair dealing with customers, suppliers , and com petitors; and compliance  with financial reporting, insider trading , and other financial market regulation s.
The code is not intended to be a comprehensive rulebook and cannot address all situations that may arise.
It provides  contacts for the company’s eth ics compliance officer and our  global general counsel should any employee require  assistance beyond an immediate supervisor.
Where permissible, we also have a toll -free hotline to an independent  company for employees or others who want to speak up but pre fer to remain anonymous.
The code prohibits  retaliation against any employee who has taken action in good faith to seek help on or report a suspected breach of the code.
Ethics and corruption   We are committed to a strong ethics and compliance culture.
We do not tolerate actions or behaviors  that are  inconsistent with our values or violate the ResMed Code of Conduct or applicable laws and regulations.
The code insists on compliance with laws and regulations covering bribery and gratuities, political contrib utions,  medical sales, and kickbacks.
Under the code, client entertainment should not exceed reasonable and customary  business practice s where allowed, and in any case , employees should not provide entertainment or other benefits  that could be viewed as an  inducement to or a reward for customer purchase decisions.
Facilitating and expediting  payments are prohibited unless pre -approved by legal counsel.
All employees are required to undertake business ethics training relevant to their position and developed by our legal  advisers, using our online Learning Management System facility where available and augmented by face -to-face  training where it is not.
Ma ny positions receive additional guidance materials and competency training – for example,  to ensure compliance with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, and the Australian Competition and  Consumer Act.
In many jurisdictions , compliance of ficers have been assigned and trained, and compliance guides published.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 16 of 48    We have appointed a global corporate compliance officer, who reports directly to our chief executive officer, with an  additional direct reporting line to the board’s audit committee an d corporate compliance committee.
In certain  jurisdictions, we also have appointed local compliance officers or local compliance committees.
In December 2019, we entered into a voluntary settlement with the US and other US states and government entities,  to resolve allegations into certain or our sales and marketing practices in the US.
The settlement did not include any  determination of liability, and we continue to deny the allegations of wrongdoing in those matters.
In December 2019,  we also entered int o a corporate integrity agreement with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office  of Inspector General.
The corporate integrity agreement, requires, among other things, that we implement various compliance and reporting requirements, including  documenting our product pricing and sales practices, and  conducting internal and external review and monitoring of our arrangements with referral sources and customers in the United States.
We are committed to fulfilling our obliations under the corporate  integrity agreement.
We take seriously, investigate, and respond appropriately to any potential breaches of our code or of other  obligations.
Internal audits of compliance standards, processes, practices, behaviors, and outcomes continue  throughout the bu siness as informed by our enterprise -wide risk assessments with oversight from our board’s Audit  Committee.
We revise the subject matter of audit and training as part of the annual planning for internal audit and for our controls and compliance process, and additionally on the advice of our legal counsel and external advisers.
Political transparency   ResMed’s Code of Conduct  prohibits political contributions by the c ompany or by employees on behalf of the  company, except as approved in advance by the c hief executive officer, and subject to review by the c ompany’s g lobal  general counsel.
During Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019, we did not make any politicial contributions.
Intellectual property   We rely on a combination of patents, designs, trademarks, trade secret s, copyrights, and non -disclosure agreements  to protect our proprietary technology and rights.
Some of these patents, patent applications , and designs relate to  significant aspects and features of our products.
We believe the combination of these rights, i n aggregate, are of  material importance to each of our businesses.
Through our various subsidiaries, as of June 30,  2019, we own or have licensed rights to over 5,700 granted, allowed,  or pending patents and designs.
Patents and designs  have various statutory terms based on the legislation in  individual jurisdictions that may be subject to change.
Of our patents, 259 US patents and 705 foreign patents are due to expire in the next five years.
We believe that the  expiration of these paten ts will not have a material adverse impact on our competitive position.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 17 of 48    OUR PEOPLE   At ResMed, we are committed to our mission of transforming patient care in the out -of-hospital setting through  innovative solutions and tech- driven integrated care by con tinuing to build and foster a culture of belonging, inclusion ,  and diversity for our high- performing, entrepreneurial people.
We engage and enable our people to be the best they  can be by embracing diverse perspectives that spark innovative healthcare solu tions to improve millions of lives.
We  believe these solutions are best when the people designing and delivering these can be their authentic selves .
Our  core competencies  capture the essence of our culture : We are all leaders, we are team players, we are innovative, we  are customer -centric , and we are inclusive.
Our employee C ode of Business Conduct & Ethics and other formal policies on workplace behavior, discrimination and  harassment, health and safety, career development , and employee benefit programs help reinforce an environment  and culture that supports and encourages our people to be the best they can be.
Our measures of safety,  remuneration , and employee engagement are strong while our rate of employee turnover is in line with or lower  than  industry benchmarks.
We invested in a new global human capital management information system that launched in December 2019 .
We  expect it to improve  our ability to deliver global  consistent and reliable data on human capital metri cs.
For example,  our data on employee absenteeism are not yet globally reliable and consistent and so are not included in this  document.
Who we are   We are a high -performing, diverse team of over 7,500  people, of which 78 % are full time , working across multiple  geographies around the world.
Table 4:  ResM ed’s people  by sex , as of 30 Ju ne 2019   Total Full time Male Full time Female Full time Total Employees 7672 78% 3251 89% 4421 70% Americas 2845 73% 1044 93% 1801 61% Asia-Pacific 3322 83% 1479 87% 1844 79% Europe 1504 78% 728 86% 776 70%  - headcount data is implemented in the above table     Diversity   At ResMed, equal opportunity is integral to our people practices for us to develop, attract , and recognize agile leaders  who lead innovative solutions through transformative change.
Our policy is to hire, retain, d evelop, promote,  and     ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 18 of 48    otherwise treat all our people on the basis of performance, capabilities, qualifications, competence , and experience.
We apply this policy regardless of an employee’s gender or any other personal characteristics.
We do not tolerate any   harassment on the basis of race, color, creed, gender, religion, marital status, age, ancestry, disability or medical  condition, sexual orientation, military status , or any other unlawful consideration.
Our board and executive team  recognize the importanc e of an inclusive and diverse workforce , and are fully supportive of our commitment to fair  and equitable people practices , including pay equity.
We maintain programs to support equity and diversity with an  annual review and action plan, through which we a im to achieve desired levels of gender diversity (which we  measure) and cultural diversity (which we do not).
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 19 of 48    Gender diversity   Over half (54%) of our people are women female employees and inclusion is foundational to ResMed.
We have  multiple initiatives and programs to promote and accelerate gender diversity.
We offer an engineering careers ladder that provides supportive career development pathways, coaching and mentoring programs that target high- potential  female employees and engineering students, spon sorship of the Women in Engineering group and Lucy Mentoring  Program in Australia, and paid participation in the Athena group for female professionals in San Diego.
For our senior  female leaders, we participate in the G100 Women’s Leadership Network to pro vide accelerated learning, leadership  and connection opportunitie sand help develop their skills to succeed in executive roles, and ensure diverse representation of females each year in selection of participants for our internal leadership programs.
There is no distinction in ResMed employment benefits based on gender.
We provide paid and unpaid parental leave  to all employees who meet eligibility criteria in accordance with or above relevant state and/or federal laws.
Over the  last three years we have sign ificantly enhanced our maternity and parential leave policies across our major  employment hubs of Australia and the US.
We offer reduced working hours for mothers returning to work, where  possible, and provide appropriate first- aid and breast- feeding areas  for working mothers, if required.
In addition, we  have also formally introduced flexible working policies including, but not limited to, job shares, alternative rostering,  part- time employment options, working from home.
To ensure that we foster a culture of belonging, inclusion and diversity we actively encourage forums which promote  open and honest conversation on the topic of gender diversity.
These forums include board of directors member roundtable discussions, online social networking ‘Yammer’ discu ssions, employee resources groups, and large group  panel discussions with leaders who wish to inspire and connect with others to support the next generation of ResMed women.
These forums are about women and men encouraging and supporting women; listening a nd understanding  what matters most to our people; giving back and helping others; removing barriers if they exist and addressing  challenges together, so that we can all bring our best selves to work.
Table 5 below shows the percentage of our employees who are female at four levels of seniority.
These statistics  change from year to year as individuals join, are promoted into, and/or leave at various levels.
Table 5: Employee gender profile , by seniority band ( global )   Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 2019 68% 32% 65% 35% 44% 56% 20% 80% 2018 73% 27% 66% 34% 46% 54% 20% 80% 2017 69% 21% 70% 30% 53% 47% 23% 77%Executives VP and  aboveSenior Mid-Junior Production   Disability   We make all reasonable accommodations to enable a qualified employee or applicant with a disability to perform  their job.
Access for people with physic al disabilities meets building code requirements for widened walkways,  doorways , and car parking.
In France, a successful partnership with local community organizations has assisted with  placements, job adaptation , and specific equipment.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 20 of 48    How we work   Our c ore competencies capture the essence of our culture; who we are and how we act: W e are all leaders; we are  team players, we are innovative, we are customer -centric , and we are inclusive.
These core competencies are  reiterated in our workplaces at practical  opportunities, beginning with hiring.
They reflect our high expectations for  the quality of work needed in our business, our regard for  all people  – including ResMed  employees , partners,  suppliers, customers , and patients –  and a very low tolerance for non -compliance.
Compliance with  environmental,  safety , and labor standards are integral to our operational ethos, and to our business integrity.
Comprehensive  internal communications and consultation support those standards and  their attainment.
Hiring policies and practices   Our hiring policies and practices are merit- based, with a referral program for  existing employees in many locations.
All  our manufacturing facilities, with the exception of our Malaysian manufacturing facili ty, are in OECD -member  countries, and all facilities have appropriate management and employees available locally.
Compensation and working conditions   We provide market -competitive compensation and benefits, based on benchmarking surveys we conduct on a reg ular  basis for all position levels against relevant peer companies.
We have an employee stock purchase plan in addition to  formal service awards.
We also provide  salary continuance, life insurance, health insurance, and similar benefits based  on local mark et conditions.
We take a thorough approach to ensur ing pay equity within our compensation programs and , to this end, have  monitoring and other internal processes in place to assist the company in identifying and addressing any potential pay  equity issues , mak ing adjustments where appropriate.
Our board and executive team recognize the importance of an  inclusive and diverse workforce and are fully supportive of our commitment to fair and  equitable people practices ,  including pay equity.
Outlined below are ke y practices included in our approach to ensure pay equity .
We are  confident that our approach help prevents statistically significant pay gap issues, including with respect to gender:   • Global grading framework   • Global review process   • Reviews for a ll eligible employees   • Multiple channels to report pay equity issues   Table 6 below  shows the percentage of our female employees at four levels of seniority and their average salaries  compared to male salaries at these levels.
These statistics change from year to year a s individuals join, are promoted  into, and/or leave at various levels.
As individuals enter more senior levels, they are likely to be at or below the mid - point of the applicable compensation range for the position compared with those who have held a simila r position at  the same level for a longer  period  time.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 21 of 48    Table 6: Employee gender profile globally , by seniority band   Female Salary Female Salary Female Salary Female Salary 2019 32% 95% 35% 99% 56% 90% 80% 97% 2018 27% 86% 34% 90% 54% 89% 80% 97% 2017 21% 80% 30% 95% 47% 90% 77% 90%ProductionExecutives VP and above Senior Mid-Junior   -Data as of 30 June  in the respective years.
- Recent acquisition MatrixCare employees not included in the above table   -Production classified as any EE under the manufacturing bonus plan   -Mid-Junior (Level 1 -4), Senior (Level 5 -7), VP -Exec (Level 8 -9)  Wor k-life balance and flexible working   In addition to market- competitive compensation packages, we support employees and their families with flexible  working arrangements, paid time  off, home working arrangements (in some countries, where feasible and approve d),  and consideration in rostering.
Paid time  off varies with local conditions, but is generally available for sick leave,  parental -community -career leave, bereavement leave, volunteer emergency services, military service where  mandated by local laws, and in some locations for limited additional unpaid time  off to attend or participate in school  activities.
We maintain a significant community volunteering program that allows our people to integrate volunteering  into their lives with the support of the compa ny.
Additional leave is available for a range of other personal causes.
Flexible rostering in Australia and Europe has enabled a high proportion of our employees to remain full time.
Part- time transitions have been made available for parents returning from  parental leave and in limited cases for  employees to pursue higher education.
Career development and learning   Our people are the  foundation of our 2025 strategy; as such, building and strengthening our talent pipeline is  imperative to ResMed’s success.
Ou r approach to talent and performance is designed to ensure employees and  managers have regular feedback conversations about performance goals and development, to enable our high - performance culture, and to create an environment where we achieve our strategy of 250 million lives improved in  out-of-hospital healthcare in 2025!   Development is all about learning , and we know there are different ways to learn and obtain new skills.
We  use the  70:20:10 model to help our people create a holistic plan:   • 70% Experiential: Learning through experiences and  from challenging work assignments   • 20% Collaboration: Learning by working with others  (e.g. colleagues, coaches, mentors) to gain new  perspectives      ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 22 of 48    • 10% Formal Training: L earning through course work  and/or supplemental reading   At ResMed, we have specific career and development pathways designed for specific roles in consultation with their  operational management, human resources, and learn ing and development specialists.
We encourage our people to  take advantage of online, on -campus , and tertiary learning avenues .
We also provide financial support, when  appropriate .
We provide online courses that are role -specific, with formal tracking of employee completion and performance.
Online and face -to-face courses on operational compliance issues are developed and delivered in -house.
Online  compliance courses on ResMed’s  Code of B usiness Conduct and Ethics, diversity, US Foreign Corrupt Practices A ct,  and health and  safety are developed by our Learning and Development t eam with external subject- matter advisers.
We also have upgraded our online Learning Management System MyLearning , and reinvented the way we learn.
MyLearning was launched to provide a simplified online system, with access to on -demand knowledge databases and  training material, anytime anywhere.
Employee consultation and communication   Our management and labor workforce communicates effectively, including informal committees and regula r campus  and team briefings and meetings.
We track concerns, including through global, local country , and department surveys  of employee issues.
In certain European countries, workers are represented by work councils, who are independent of trade unions a nd  with whom we must consult on any plan regarding the organization, health and safety, and working conditions.
We have over 450 employees in our ResMed Homecare business in Germany, for example, 11 of whom serve on the work council.
One employee is allowe d to spend 100% of their time on council matters, with full pay.
In our French  operations, 22 employee work council members represent more than 250 employees.
Consistent with the law, our employees are free to join any organized labor  union or association.
We do not keep a  record of such members.
Subject to consultation where applicable with the European work councils, workplace  relations issues are negotiated directly with our employees, updating unions as required or requested.
HEAL TH AND WELLBEING   Employee wellbeing   We recognize the benefits of a healthy workforce and adopt a holistic approach to the health and safety of our  people.
We can provide onsite support for employee fitness when possible , for example at our major campuses in  Sydney and San Diego.
We offer employee health and wellbeing programs that may variously include on -site blood  pressure, cholesterol , and heart testing.
Programs may include seasonal flu vaccinations, subsidized quit- smoking  programs, screening for slee p apnea , confidential third -party counseling and referrals on stress and mental health  issues, support for a gym membership , and in some jurisdictions, company -sponsored private health insurance.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 23 of 48    Working environment   In most locations, we are relatively sma ll teams working from well -appointed commercial premises.
At our major  campuses in  San Diego, Singapore, and  Sydney, we have been able to design and build a collaborative and interactive  environment that underpins our culture of quality, performance , and i nnovation.
Field -based teams are supported  through communication, monitoring , and other resources .
The buildings at the Sydney campus are designed to efficient ly facilitate corporate and manufacturing teams’  collaboration , thereby accelerating and improv ing product design, development , and manufacturing.
The iconic  Innovation Centre, with its narrow floor plate oriented towards the north , takes advantage of Environmental ly  Sustainable Design (ESD) principles.
We conduct periodic building environment assess ments to measure and inspect the quality of lighting, air, water , and  noise for the workplace.
The overall results were compared and concluded to be well within the relevant standards.
Employee engagement   We regularly solicit employee feedback and sentimen t about our workplace through our global engagement surveys  that enable  our people to comment anonymously and freely on matters related to their employment experience,  including pay equity.
There is an active program following these engagement surveys to s hare findings openly  throughout the company, and to put in place action plans at global and local levels to address priority issues.
In  addition, we actively engage in social listening with our people through a variety of internal avenues such as Yammer,  a internal digital social networking platform, and our  global all-hands discussions with our Office of the CEO.
We also perform regular, specific , and localized surveys , and facilitate focus groups to ensure we monitor and capture  our employee engagement and attitudes during periods where a global survey is not conducted.
This dual approach  allows us to identify and address specific local issues under a global framework i n the most efficient manner.
The  surveys cover attitudes to our leadership and strategy, our communication and involvement, and our individual, team,   and company performance.
Where comparable benchmarks are available, our results are evaluated against  international peer groups.
Health and safety   Our approach to health and safety uses both our management systems and our quality culture to minimize workplace  incidents and maximize the care taken for employees who suffer from a workplace incident.
Our global approach to  health and safety is led by our Australian manufacturing operations  team , with support at regional and country levels .
Our safety approaches and performance measures are progressively adopted globally.
System and culture   Our safety management s ystems (for example, our US Workplace Injury and Illness Prevention  system ) are generally  the same format and nature as our quality  and environmental  management systems so that our people are familiar     ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 24 of 48    with how the y operate and know what is expected of them.
Our health and safety organizational structure  incorporates both workplace committees and health and safety experts across our global sites as appropriate to local  needs.
Inherent in our quality culture is a strong safety imperative.
In Sydney, safety walks, team briefings , and risk  assessments identify risks before incidents occur.
This mid -operational risk identification is driving incident rates  lower.
As we successfully re duce risks in the production environment, a higher proportion of our safety and risk  management actions are lower -order “administrative ” actions for controlling residual risks, such as communicating  risks and providing protective clothing and equipment.
We  expect to further reduce incident rates with design factors  and continuous improvement in our operational risk management.
To eliminate risks from the line, product development engineers look at product design and manufacturing processes .
Health and wellbeing programs at some locations also contribute to lower incident rates.
Our philosophy is that  employees who are physically fit and able to concentrate are more aware of risks in their workplace, and better able  to identify and counter the m.
Injury rates   The number of incidents requiring time off work for rehabilitation (lost time injuries) has increased over the past three   years .
Yet it has remained comparatively low relative to longer -term trends against a backdrop of expanding global  operations, indicating an effective management system and sustained focus on con tinuous improvement: see Table 7 .
Table 7: Injury rates   2019 2018 Fatalities 0 0 Lost time injuries 28 24 Lost time injury rate (Injuries per million employee hours) 2.84 2.22 1.Total recordable injury rate (per million employee hours) 6.39 4.44 3.99  Employee turnover   We experience a relatively low turnover of production and warehousing employees, with turnover of professional  employees closer to comparison indices.
Our overall voluntary turnover has been falling consistently from 2012 to  2019.
Periodic organizational c hange in the form of acquisitions and business structural change may affect turnover  rates.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 25 of 48    Table 8 : Staff voluntary turnover, % of total   2019 2018 Global 10.50% 12.00% 10.20% Americas 10.30% 9.91% 9.12% Asia-Pacific 9.92% 12.10% 8.65% Europe 11.90% 13.90% 14.50%  Human rights   In managing our supply chain, we issue to our suppliers ResMed’s Supplier Manual that, among other issues, sets out  the requirements and expectations we have for our suppliers (and in turn their  suppliers ).
We evaluate the risk of  human trafficking and slavery in our own supply chain, rather than using a third party to do so, and include policies in  our Supplier Manual to address those risks.
Our anti -slavery and anti -trafficking policies include specific requirements  and warranties for:   • Prohibition of child labor based on the  1973  International Labor Organization’s  Minimum Age Convention;   • Compliance with applicable local occupational health and safety and labor laws (including slave, prisoner , or  any othe r form of forced or involuntary labor); and   • A right for ResMed to request a higher standard of compliance where we believe that the local laws are not in  line with our corporate values.
The ResMed Supplier Manual includes an acknowledgment that the suppli er  must sign to indicate their responsibility for knowing and adhering to the standards of ResMed’s Supplier Manual and ResMed’s overall Supplier Management Process.
Through this acknowledgment, our suppliers certify that the materials incorporated into Re sMed’s products comply with local laws regarding slavery and  human trafficking.
Failure to comply with any part of the manual or the process can result in the removal of  the supplier from ResMed’s Approved Supplier List and termination of our relationship with them.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 26 of 48    OUR PRODUCTS   Our core mission  is to improve people’s health and wellbeing by providing innovative and high -quality products and  services for sleep apnea, COPD, asthma, and other  chronic conditions , as well as to help streamline the process of  aiding and managing consumers of out -of-hospital care services such as skilled nursing, life plan care, or home health  and hospice services .
This focus on product quality and innovation is reflected not only in the high regard our  customers have for our pr oducts and services but in our vigilance in meeting our safety and marketing obligations.
Quality, innovation , and continuous improvement   Our people work to high operational standards.
Our commitment to quality, innovation, regulatory compliance , and  cont inuous improvement is stressed in our G lobal Quality Policy .
Our key operational sites work to a comprehensive  quality management system to meet this policy.
Our product quality is best reflected in the awards we have received  for product design.
Please see Table 3 for these awards and highlights .
Research and development   We have a strong track record of innovation.
Since introducing our first CPAP device in 1989, we have conducted an  ongoing program of product advancement and development.
We continually seek to identify new applications of our  technology for significant un met medical needs.
We support clinical trials in many countries, including Australia,  China, France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
We consult with physicians at  major sleep centers  throughout the world to identify trends and needs.
New product ideas are also identified by our  marketing staff, direct sales force, network of distributors, customers , and patients.
For our products to remain leaders in very competitive markets, we invest appropriately in innovation, with approximately 1 7% of our employees devoted to research and development activities.
In F iscal Year 2019, we invested  $180.70  million, or approximately 7 % of our net revenues, in research and development .
Table 9: E xpenditure on R&D, 201 7–2019       2019  2018  2017   R&D/revenues  7% 7% 7%  Revenues ($m)  2606.6  2340.2  2,067   R&D investment ($m)  180.7  155.1  144.5   Research and development staff  1198  928 880        ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 27 of 48    Product quality    The quality management system engages our employees and suppliers to ensure our expected product quality.
ResMed has comprehensive systems and processes to ensure our products are designed to meet patient needs and  performance requirements.
We use engineer ing and other scientific principles to design and manufacture our  products.
We design manufacturing processes to consistently meet product quality attributes.
We apply these  principles from product conception through commercialization , and for the product’ s life.
We have established data sources and metrics in several quality sub -systems including product development, supplier  performance, manufacturing process controls, equipment controls, field performance , complaint management , audits   (internal, external , and supplier) , and product risk assessment.
We also monitor data trends and take appropriate  action based on those trends.
Quality at ResMed   Patient and employee safety are ResMed’s top priorities.
As such, w e work to ensure every product  work s safely,  effectively , and efficiently.
Our product quality is underpinned by our quality management system, which takes into  account the requirements of the International Organization for Standardization  (ISO) 13485 standards for medical  devices , the Europ ean medical legislative requirements (Directive 93/42/EEC and Regulation 2017/745) , the US FDA  Quality System Regulations for medical devices (21 CFR part 820), the Japan MHLW Ministerial Ordinance No.169 , and  other regulations in our target markets.
ResMe d’s quality management system provides an integrated quality plan  covering quality practices, resources , and activities.
The main systems include organization management;  environment management; change control and document management; and improvement manag ement, including  CAPA, risk management , and post -market surveillance.
The quality management system is certified by an independent  notified body.
All of our employees complete training in relevant quality management system areas.
We also train employees in   good manufacturing practice, which guides everyday behaviors  in a medical device manufacturing operation, such as  personal hygiene, protective clothing , and documentation standards.
We implement a compr ehensive internal audit  program  across the entire bus iness – with over 50 internal audits a year – to ensure compliance with the quality  management system and to help identify improvement opportunities.
Quality with suppliers   ResMed draws over 2,000 individual components or materials from over 200 approved suppliers in our current  product range.
We have a comprehensive supplier approval process, with assessment tools that include on -site audits  according to the assessed risk of the component or service.
We establish standards for supplier communication,  resp onsibilities, quality systems, traceability , and environmental aspects.
We require suppliers to have ISO 9001 or an  equivalent quality management system, to be certified by an acceptable third party, and to adhere to the applicable  Jedec, IPC, ANSI, J -STD, and SAE standards for electronic components.
In some cases, we may approve a supplier that  is not ISO 9001 certified, based on our audit of their quality system, with agreed and documented controls.
We conduct ongoing supplier audits based on our initial assessment of a supplier, their subsequent performance , and  the nature of the supplied goods.
Audit frequency can range from 6 to 48 months.
On average, our supplier audit     ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 28 of 48    team audits 60 –70 suppliers a year.
Most supplied components are also inspected befo re use for compliance against  detailed specifications.
Corrective actions are specified for any quality defects, escalating through to termination of  contract for failure to address defects.
Supplier networks   We draw from an international supply chain that provides the best quality components and supplies available for an  appropriate price.
All else being equal, our manufacturing operations seek suppliers from their local economies,  however , the suitability and quality of our supplies is paramount.
To achie ve that quality, we seek and value long -term  stable relationships with our suppliers.
We inform suppliers of our relevant business plans so that they can align their  plans.
In particular, we encourage suppliers to develop partnerships, networks , and relati onships that can support  ResMed’s global manufacturing network.
Warranties   We generally offer either one- year or two -year limited warranties on our devices.
In some regions and for certain  customers , we also offer extended warranties on our devices for one to three years in addition to our limited  warranty.
Warranties on mask systems are for 90 days.
Our distributors either repair our products with parts supplied  by us or arrange shipment of products to our facilities for repair or replacement.
We receive returns of our products from the field for various reasons.
We believe the level of returns experienced to  date is consistent with levels typically experienced by manufacturers of similar devices.
We provide for warranties and  returns based on historical data.
Customer satisfaction   ResMed keeps comprehensive confidential data on customer attitudes to our product quality and customer service.
ResMed generally sells products through medical and health product resellers in most markets, rather than direct to  users.
But in some markets (most notably Germany and Australia) we sell directly to end  users.
In wholesale markets,  health, marketing , and privacy regulations limit the extent to which we can engage directly with users.
Accordingly,  much of our data on pr oduct quality and customer service is derived from wholesale customer surveys, rather than  surveys of those using our products.
We believe the views of our customers, who also deal with comparable  healthcare products including those of our competitors, are  reliable, and in some aspects a more accurate and less  anecdotal reflection of overall performance than those of individual users.
Product safety   We take our product safety obligations seriously and rely on our quality management system to meet or exceed regulatory standards in all our markets.
We apply risk management principles from product design through  commercialization .
We continually monitor the field performance and safety of released devices , and work with  regulators to ensure safety and effectiveness for the product’s life.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 29 of 48    Market and labeling   Product marketing and labeling requirements are set by medical device regulators in all countries in which our  products are sold (for example, by the Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia, and the Food and Drug  Administration in the US).
Products cannot be marketed until an assessment verifies that these requirements are met.
All marketing material must correspond with approved labeling.
Our qual ity management system incorporates  elements to ensure compliance with labeling requirements, including translations.
Our internal quality audit processes  are designed to capture any flaws in product marketing, user guides , and clinical guides, including tr anslations.
We have not received any material non -compliance notices since 2017.
Our internal audit has identified and corrected  several minor issues, and we have also received some notices of minor non -conformance from regulatory authorities .
Biocompatibi lity Testing   ResMed as a medical device company, distributing products into global markets, is required to comply with regulatory requirements intended to ensure materials in our products are biologically safe or biocompatible.
Biological evaluation is co mmissioned to be performed to confirm the biocompatibility of materials that go into our  products as per the international standard, ISO 10993 -1:2018, “Biological evaluation of medical devices.”   The FDA and other regulatory agencies still require safety da ta based on animal studies.
If an animal study is not  avoidable, ResMed employs the 3Rs approach (Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement) to animal study whenever possible , and takes all practicable steps to ensure that we meet the required standard of ani mal care and welfare  specified by ISO 10993 -2:2006, “Animal welfare requirements .” These considerations are also reflected in our internal  work instructions during biocompatibility evaluation .
Military products and uses   Other than where our products are us ed by military personnel, neither ResMed nor its subsidiaries produce or  contribute to any  products or services designed or used for military purposes.
We have no intention or aspiration to  produce or sell arms or any equipment designed solely for military  use.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 30 of 48    COMMUNITY    Our community contributions reflect our  mission to improve millions of lives worldwide through the treatment of  chronic diseases like sleep apnea, COPD, and asthma, plus improved management of consumers benefiting from out - of-hospital care.
We target research in th ose area s and also help our em ployees support their communities in the  form of volunteer hours  and matching charity donations where appropriate.
We further respect our communities by  being vigilant in meeting our product quality, safety , and marketing obligations, as well as with custo mer data privacy.
Contributions to health   Our core  business is improving people’s health and wellbeing by treating their sleep  apnea , COPD, asthma , or other  chronic conditions.
Accordingly, most of our community engagement is on health- related matters, and  we continue to  raise awareness  through market and clinical initiatives  of the increasing link between the potential effects sleep   apnea, COPD, asthma, and other  respiratory conditions  can have on one another as well as on other chronic  conditions such as cardiovascular diseases, stroke, high blood pressure, obesity, and diabetes:   • Cardiovascular disease .
Clinical research has demonstrated a high prevalence of sleep  apnea  in cardiology  patients and has suggested that it may increas e the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and heart failure.
The European Society of Cardiology, the American College of Cardiology , and American Heart Association  acknowledge the high prevalence of sleep  apnea  in heart failure cases and have recommended treatment with  various modes of positive airway pressure or PAP therapy to treat patients’ sleep apnea .
Further studies have  highlighted this importance, showing the worsening of long -term outcomes in patients with heart failure and  sleep  apnea , and that treating sleep  apnea  may improve these outcomes .1    • Type 2 diabetes .
The International Diabetes Federation strongly recommends health professionals treating a  patient for either type 2 diabetes or sleep  apnea  should also consider the presence of the other condition .2 The  American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists’ guidelines for a comprehensive diabetes care plan  recommend sleep  apnea  screening for adults .3 Other research reported treating patients with both type 2  diabetes and obstructive sleep apnea with CPAP leads to significantly lower blood pressure and better - controlled diabetes whil e affording a cost- effect ive use of healthcare resources .4    • Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) .
Published research has shown the use of non -invasive positive  pressure ventilation can significantly improve the survival of stable hypercapni c COPD patients whil e also  improving health -related quality of life .5 There is also a hospital readmission burden following an acute                                                              1 Damy T et al.
Prognostic impact of sleep -disordered br eathing and its treatment with nocturnal ventilation for   chronic heart failure.
Eur J Heart Fail .
2012 Sep; 14(9):1009 -19.
2 Shaw JE et al.
Sleep -disordered breathing and type 2 diabetes: a report from the International Diabetes   Federation Taskforce on Epi demiology and Prevention.
Diabetes Res Clin Pract .
2008 Jul;81(1):2- 12.
3 Handelsman Y et al.
American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists Medical Guidelines for clinical practice   for developing a diabetes mellitus comprehensive care plan: executive s ummary.
Endocr Pract .
2011 Mar -Apr;17(2):287 -302.
4 Guest JF et al.
Clinical Outcomes and Cost -Effectiveness of Continuous Positive Airway Pressure to Manage Obstructive Sleep  Apnea in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes in the U.K. Diabetes Care.
2014 Apr ;37(5):1263 -71.
5 Köhnlein T et al.
Non -invasive positive pressure ventilation for the treatment of severe stable chronic obstructive pulmonary  disease: a prospective, multicentre, randomized, controlled clinical trial.
Lancet Respir Med.
2014 Sep;2(9):698 -705.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 31 of 48    exacerbation of COPD and the use o f non -invasive positive pressure ventilation has been shown to si gnificantly  reduce this as well .6    • Transport safety .
One of the largest measurable emerging contributions to community health that we are  making is in the link between sleep  apnea  and occupational safety, in particular transport safety.
In a ResMed - sponsored study  of 22,000 members of the Union Pacific Railroad health plan  published in Population Health  Management , findings suggest that a low- cost, patient- focused sleep  apnea  educ ation campaign can improve  healthcare outcomes and reduce medical expenses.
After the campaign was initiated, the healthcare plan  realized cost savings of US $4.9 m illion over two years .7    • Peri-operative risk .
Over 80% of those with sleep apnea remain undiagnosed8.
The incidence of postoperative  complications of surgery in undiagnosed obstructive sleep apnea patients is significant , making  screening before  surgery for high -risk patients necessary .9 Meta -analysis of the association between obstructive sl eep apnea and  postoperative outcomes  showed the incidence of respiratory failure, cardiac events , and intensive care unit  transfers was higher in patients with obstructive sleep apnea .10  We expect studies underway or planned for the future to provide further evidence that treating sleep  apnea  and  other respiratory insufficienc ies can improve mortality and morbidity, quality of life , and also healthcare cost  utilization  in relation to these patients.
In some of these studies, we also work directly with payers and clinically  integrated delivery networks to understand how their costs and outcomes may be impacted by patients with  undiagnosed or untreated sleep apnea  within their population.
Other community contributions   Our contributions to our local commun ities are made in both monetary contributions and the time and effort of our  employees.
ResMed gives every employee two  days of paid time off to volunteer for the personal cause of their  choice.
While we encourage ResMedians to volunteer, how they choose t o donate their time is at their discretion and  does not reflect the values of the company.
As a company , we engage with a large number of community organizations, as do our staff as individuals, particularly  with local educational and scientific organizations.
We committed significant time and donated over US  $1m  to over  150 community organizations and acade mic institutions in recent years : see Table 10.
Our community focus is on major national -level  relief efforts, on organizations near  our principal places of  business,  and on organizations that are involved in the research or treatment of one of the links between sleep  apnea  and one  or more comorbid links such as cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, perioperative risk , or occupational health and  safety, as well as ventilator support to COPD and other chronic diseases.
6 Galli J et al.
Home non -invasive ventilation use following acute hypercapnic respiratory failure in COPD.
Respir Med .
2014 May;108(5):722 -8.
7 Potts KJ et al.
Cost savings associated with an education campaign on the diagnosis and management of   sleep -disordered breathing: a retrospective, claims -based US study.
Popul Health Manag.
2013 Feb;16(1):7 -13.
8 Young T et al.
Estimation of the Clinically Diagnosed Proportion of Sleep Apnea Syndrome in Middle -Aged Men and Women.
Sleep 19 97 Sep;20(9):705 -6.
9 Kaw R et al.
Meta -analysis of the association between obstructive sleep apnoea and postoperative outcome.
Br J   Anaesth.
2012 Dec;109(6):897 -906.
10 Iftikhar IH et al.
Meta -analysis: continuous positive airway pressure improves insulin resistance in patients with   sleep apnea without diabetes.
Ann Am Thorac Soc .
2013 Apr;10(2):115 -20.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 32 of 48    Table 10: Global Community contributions , in USD  per fiscal year     2019  2018  2017   Corporate Giving  $1,420,441.48  $676,195.55  $334,054.25   Foundation Funding  $600,000 .00 $750,000 .00 $600,00 .00  Total  $2,020,441.48  $1,426,195.55  $934,054.25     Industry and advocacy involvement    ResMed has been a consistent supporter of local scientific and industry organizations to help promote the social and  economic benefits of sound science and entrepreneurial enterprise.
We contributed more than $100,000 during  either fiscal year 2018 or 2019 to eac h of the following organizations:   • AdvaMed (US)   • Council for Quality Respiratory Care (US)   • Syndicat National De L’Industrie des technologies Médicales ( National Union of the Medical Technology  Industry) (France)   • la Société Française de Recherche sur le Sommeil (French Society for Research and Medicine in Sleep)         ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 33 of 48      Table 11: Industry associations contributions , in USD     2019  2018  2017   Memberships  $543,086  $585,126  $503,451     Government contributions   Our total tax paid is summarized in T able 1.
We note the cost of medical care, including the use of our products in  many of the countries in which we operate , is funded in substantial part by government and private insurance  programs.
Customer data protection   ResMed has implemented a range of technical and orga nizational measures to provide assurance that customers’ data  will be protected and processed legally and ethically .
ResMed processes sensitive personal health data for residents of  over 1 40 countries.
Regulations governing our protection of customer data (including sensitive data) include but are  not limited to the US Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and the Health Information  Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), the European General Data Protection Regulatio n (GDPR),  the Japanese Act on the Protection of Personal Information (APPI), and the Australian Privacy Act.
These jurisdictions  cover the majority of personal data processed by ResMed, but data protection regulations from other jurisdictions are  also moni tored and included where appropriate.
ResMed continues to make material investments in the people, process es, and technology controls for its  Information  Security and Privacy team functions.
The design and effectiveness of these controls for systems hosting material  amounts of sensitive personal health data include validation via a Service Organization Control (SOC -2) report, a  Japanese P –Mark certificate, the French Hébergeurs de D onnées de Santé (HDS) or Health Data Hosting certificate,  and the United Kingdom National Health Service Data Security and Protection Toolkit (DSPT) online self -assessment  (with governmental spot audits).
The protection and processing of customers’ data i s overseen by a chief information security officer reporting to the  chief executive officer and a chief privacy officer reporting to the chief administrative officer and global general  counsel.
Formal obligations are set by our employee and contractor contracts, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our IT Information Security Policy, and other internal policies and training.
Employees likely to handle  consumer data undergo data protection training.
Our Privacy notices are published online.
Versions appl icable to the  United States of America can be viewed here.
Versions for other countries can be found here .
Anti-trust behavior   No government enforcement action has been taken against ResMed for any alleged violation of any antitrust or  competition regulation in this  reporting period .
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 34 of 48    In the United States, our largest geographic market, the primary competitors for sa le of products used to treat sleep   apnea  are: Philips BV, who acquired previous competitor Respironics Inc.,  and Fisher & Paykel Healthcare Corporation  Limited.
These firms are also our principal international competitors for the sale of flow generators a nd masks  for the  treatment of sleep apnea .
The markets for our products are highly competitive.
Our sleep products compete with  surgical procedures, dental appliances, and other means to treat sleep  apnea  and related respiratory conditions.
ResMed also sel ls ventilators , portable oxygen concentrators, high -flow cannulas and other respiratory accessories,  and software -as-a-service solutions – all in smaller quantities than our sales of sleep  apnea  breathing products.
Those  products also face competition from  other companies.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 35 of 48    ENVIRONMENT   Between  2017 and 2019 , there has been a noticeable increase in i nquiries from customers on the source, content ,  and environmental performance of our products.
This is in addition to the increasing appearance of sustainability  credentials in requests for tenders, particularly from the hospital sector.
Each i nquiry raises internal consideration of  our existing manufa cturing and supply chain processes, and the extent to which we weigh environmental factors  against operational and financial factors in our decision  making.
We insist on and achieve strong compliance with environmental regulations, with no material breache s, and have  seen improvements in material efficiency and recycling in both production and administrative areas.
We are extending  our adoption of ISO 14001 standards, which reflect the need to conserve scarce resources and protect our natural ecologies.
We have invested in environmental stewardship at our sites, and are committed to extend ing that  stewardship to our product design and packaging.
At this stage, we are comfortable that our quality management system, with our pursuit of lean manufacturing and  continuous improvement, is delivering environmental improvements in a way that is both effective and integrated  with our core business.
Policies and systems   Responsibility for environmental management resides  at the site level.
We have a comprehensive envi ronmental  management system with ISO 14001 certification at our primary manufacturing site in Sydney.
Other sites rely on our quality management,  pollution control , and waste management systems to ensure compliance with relevant  environmental regulations.
Sydney manufacturing site   Our environmental management system at our Sydney manufacturing site is closely aligned with our quality assurance  and health and safety systems, with the continual expectation of improved performance in all three dimensions.
Although we have internal advisory roles on each dimension, line managers are accountable for their areas of  operational responsibility.
Our environmental and communications teams work together to support the behaviors  and  culture needed to sustain continuous  improvement in environmental performance.
The environmental management system at Sydney was established in accordance with ISO 14001 certification to  systematically improve our environmental -related costs, and to ensure compliance with applicable local a nd  international environmental legislation affecting our operations.
Its scope considers impacts on the environment  throughout the lifecycle of our products and services.
That environmental policy and ISO 14001 certification are  publicly available on request.
Regulatory compliance is set by national, state , and local law, ISO 14001, occupational health and safety , and other  regulations that relate to our environmental prac tice and the conditions of consent to the development of our  premises.
Environmental risks are identified by analyzing  our product s’ lifecycle s, and by anticipating the views of internal and  external parties who may be concerned or impacted by our environ mental performance.
Significant impacts and risks     ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 36 of 48    require environmental management plans and are reviewed annually, with accountabilities and measurable targets.
Where there are operational controls for these risks, personnel must have measurable competenc y and relevant  training.
Environmental performance is considered in the selection process for suppliers, with preference shown to suppliers  with good environmental performance, such as recognizing compliance with ISO 14001 through the supplier rating  prog ram.
Other sites  In our Singapore and Malaysia production facilities, the production processes replicate those developed in our Sydney  facility for similar manufactured products.
Our distribution, commercial , and other production facilities do not  currentl y work to a comprehensive environmental management system and have not to date pursued ISO  14001  accreditation.
Instead , they rely on our quality assurance systems and work with our waste management providers to  ensure compliance with relevant environmenta l and supplier regulations.
Review   Our senior management team reviews our environmental performance annually, including audit and compliance  results, non -conformance and corrective actions, communications and complaints, and available metrics on  environmental performance.
At sites with an environmental management system, our environmental team conducts a  rolling internal audit for compliance with ISO 14001 and other controlled impacts on the environment, so that we  review all elements of the system at least once every two years.
The environmental performance of our Sydney manufacturing, research,  and administration site is externally audited  every year by TÜV SÜD to confirm its ISO 14001 certification.
The last audit was a recertification audit completed in  April 2019.
Our Sydney site also conduct s an internal audit at least once every two  years.
We do not use third -party “eco-labeling ” certification labels for our products, nor produce, publish or verify lifecycle  assessment data.
Compliance an d incidents   We have received no regulatory notices on material environmental issues in the three financial years 201 7–2019 .
In  addition, we are not aware of regulatory notices or complaints raised about environmental matters against any of our  suppliers in  respect of any of the products or services provided to us.
Production and efficiencies   Led by our primary manufacturing sites, our operational culture focuses on efficiency and effectiveness, using S ix   Sigma and other lean manufacturing approaches as par t of our quality and continuous improvement management  systems .
In Sydney, 10  forms of waste are identified – defects, overproduction, waiting, transport, inventory, motion,     ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 37 of 48    underutilized talents, materials, energy , and safety risks.
Awareness and action o n all these dimensions have paid  dividends in materials, energy , and water use.
We encourage all employees to suggest efficiency ideas, and we  systematically pursue them , recogniz ing staff who generate successfully implemented ideas with awards.
Global data on energy, water, materials , and waste has not been comprehensively recorded through 20 18–2019 , and  we present trend data for that period only for the locations for which we have it.
While our figures represent our best  understanding of energy and materi al flows for the most recent year, these figures may be revised as our data capture  systems are improved and standardized internationally.
Sources and use of energy   All sites draw on a mix of natural gas and grid electricity.
Our San Diego headquarters feature a rooftop solar  photovoltaic ( PV) array designed to provide a maximum of 6,811  kWh of electricity  per month.
Commissioned in 2019,  our Sydney site administratio n building (Innovation Centre) installed a solar system that can produce approximately  122 MWh of electricity each year.
Apart from this new solar system, the uses of the other energy at our Sydney site are representative of uses at our  other global sites.
Gas is consumed chiefly by our heating, ventilating, and air conditioning system s’ boilers for space  heating and humidity control in manufacturing areas, as well as for domestic hot water and kitchen use.
Its use primarily reflects variable climatic condi tions , as well as  building design and use.
The primary electricity uses in  research, professional and administrative services are heating, ventilation, and air conditioning  (HVAC ) chillers ;  vertical transport, research , and development lab equipment ( e.g. environmental chambers, ovens, lathes, mills) ; and  lighting, catering , and office equipment.
These uses respond more to behavioral change.
Group  energy use   We consumed 127,676 GJ in 2018 and 128,136 GJ  in 2019 of energy globally, representing an energy intensity of 54.6   and 49.2  GJ per US$million of revenue for the entire business in 2018 and 2019, respectively: s ee Table 12.
These  figures represent  the gas and electricity consumed at our premises globa lly and does not include energy used in our  supply chain and transportation  or their corresponding greenhouse gas emissions.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 38 of 48    Table 12: Global trend energy data       Electricity  Consumption (MWh)  Natural Gas  Consu mption (GJ)  Total Energy  Consumption (GJ)  Energy Intensity   2019  31,014  16,487  128,136  49.2   2018  31,235  15,231  127,676  54.6   2017  31,697  15,882  129,990  62.9     Global electricity consumption  has decreased steadily  over the three years .
This reflects the positive progress of our  energy conservation  measures.
At our primary manufacturing site in Sydney, the base -load energy consumption  (excluding production) is improving through equipment upgrade s and changed controls of the HVAC system.
We  installed an 85.8 kW solar system to reduce electricity cons umption, yielding further improvements to the overall  system efficiency.
Recent energy -efficient lamp retrofits, lighting control enhancements , and rescheduling at Sydney  and other sites also contributed to the improvement.
Since 2016, w e have made adjustments to the dehumidification control at our primary manufacturing site in Sydney –   a process that comprises the majority of natural gas usage, increased the use of econom ic cycle, and installed Variable  Speed Drives (VSD) to enable the u se of a more efficient plant control strategy.
Since consuming 19,055 GJ of natural  gas during Fiscal Year 2016, the company has seen a steady decline in gas consumption through Fiscal Year 2019 .
During these years , there has been some increased usage of o ur air conditioning systems , mainly for production  requirements  due to  additional afternoon and night shifts in some areas and 24/7 requirements for some ventilator  product testing.
Additional exhaust requirements for new equipment supporting the manufactu re of new mask  product designs ha ve also placed considerable additional load on the air conditioning in this 24/7 area , which includes  dehumidification.
These contributing factors as well as natural variations in seasons across the years, have led to  modes t increases.
Manufacturing energy   Our significant manufacturing operations are located in Sydney, Singapore, Mala ysia, and Chatsworth, California , USA .
We use an index of energy intensity that measures the energy used for our production output.
The index was set at  100 for 2010 and fell  by 37.5% to 62.5  in 201 9: see Table 13.
Our energy efficiency has improved through changes to  production equipment or manufacturing process.
This involves adding new lean process equipment such as robot  demoulders and conveying systems.
Although new process equipment consumes greater energy, it delivers higher  productivity and better energy intensity.
Improvements to the building plants and upgrade s of the lighting system also  contribute  to enhanc ing the baseload energy use and intensity of the manufacturing site.
Table 13: Global production energy use and intensity   2019 2018 Production energy (GJ) 72,636 71,171 63,Intensity index 62.5 72.1 73.3     ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 39 of 48    Non-manufacturing electricity   Energy data is separated between office and production uses at our primary manufacturing and research and  development (R&D)  site in Sydney.
Over  the three years Between end of Fiscal Year 2016 and  2019, electricity  consumed for office and  R&D purposes has significantly decreased by 12.
4%.
Although the number of employees in  these areas increased, electricity use per person fell by 17.4 %: see Table 14.
The efficiency improvement reflects the  positive results of lighting upgrades and control enhancement implemented during 2018 and 2019.
The  Administration building on site (Innovation Centre) has installed an 85.8 kW Solar System that commissioned in F iscal  Year 19 to reduce the impact on the environment while hedging the risks associated with the fluctuating electricity  market prices.
Our other  sites also have implemented a number of energy efficiency initiatives.
Malaysia, Switzerland , and Lyon have  upgraded the ir lighting system s to LED lamps and tubes.
The new Atlanta site has installed motion  sensors in the  warehouse and energy -efficient lam ps around the site perimeter.
The San Diego site has adjusted lighting and air - conditioning schedules to bet ter match conditions and needs: T he interior of the building has been updated with 50%  LED lighting; parking structure lighting has been recently converted to LED  as well .
They have also leveraged its solar  electricity with low- voltage lighting controlled by daylight and motion  sensors, which are also being used in Abingdon  and Chatsworth.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 40 of 48    Table 14: Electricity use for research an d administrative  purposes, Sydne y campus   Office e-MWh Δ PeopleOffice e- MWh/personΔ 2019 4,131 -3.8% 815 5.1 -6.0% 2018 4,296 -8.9% 797 5.4 -12.2% 2017 4,714 -2.2% 768 6.1 -16.2% 3 years -12.4% -17.4%   Greenhouse gas emission   Our global Scope  1 (gas-fired energy) and Scope  2 emissions  have totaled  19,353 tons  of CO 2 equivalents  (T CO 2-e) in  2018 and 19,193 T CO 2-e in 201 9: see Table 15.
Our t otal energy consumption (electricity and natural gas) and  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have fallen by 1.4% and 13.8%, respectively.
The efficiency improvements reflect the  positive results of energy  initiatives implementations on  all ResMed sites and structural changes in energy section  that  has lower GHG emission s, replacing grid -connected electricity with solar power  and natural gas .
The total emissions are well below the thresholds that trigger emissions reporting or liabilities in countries in which we  operate, including the US, Australia, and Europe.
Accordingly, we do not currently calculate our non- gas Scope  1 or  our Scope 3  emis sions.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 41 of 48    Table 15: Global greenhouse gas emissions , tons CO 2 equivalents , t CO 2-e   Total Energy Consumption (GJ)  Total GHG Emissions (tCO 2-e)  2019  128,136  19,193   2018  127,676  19,353   2017  129,990  22,290     Water  We draw water from the local mains supply and measure its  use at all sites except Switzerland .
Global * water use was  80,184 kL in 2018 and 79,174  kL in 2019  or 32.4  and 28.7  kL per US$mil lion in global revenues for 2018 and 2019 ,  respectively: see Table 16.
We reduced our global water consumption by  1010 kL between Fiscal Years 2018 and  2019 .
Our primary sites Sydney and San Diego water usage have fallen from the year 2017 by 5.4% and 17.4 %  respectively despite an increasing number of employees.
Our Sydney site captured all rainwater from roofs, hard surfaces , and Bella Vista Farm Park with feeds to onsite ponds.
Stormwater pollution -control devices and bio -filters maintain the ponds’ water quality so it can serve as a  habitat for  native flora and  fauna, as well as an  irrigation  source  for native flora around the campus.
Other initiatives to reduce  general water consumption are observed at many of our sites.
These include water tap aerators to reduce flow  intensity and low- flow flush toilets and sensor faucets in restrooms.
The water used for manufacturing purposes is  negligible.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 42 of 48    Table 16: Global and major sites ’ water consumption   Consumption (kL) Per Employee Per $M Global Rev 2019 79,174 10.99 30.2018 80,184 13.59 34.2017 77,965** 15.02 37.7Global *   *Exclude s Switzerland   **Exclude s Europe   Paper   Our global office paper use totaled  8.98 million sheets (4 1 tons) in 2018 and 8 .12 million sheets  (40 tons ) in 2019.
While the global number of employees has increased, the usage intensity per employee has decreased by 13.62 %  from 201 7.
There are common paper reduction initiatives at many sites to promote the use of double -sided and  centralized printing, and by relying m ore on electronic means for internal communication.
In the past, our Sydney  operations had undertaken a campus -wide printer refresh with better energy efficiency printers and swipe -release  function to minimize  unnecessary printing.
The implement ation  result ed in a noticeable reduction in paper utilization.
This system also enables data monitoring , which reveals paper savings from unreleased jobs for  52,297 and 43,801  sheets during FY18 and FY19, respectively .
Table 17: Paper use, global   Sheets ('000) TonnesSheets per  employeeΔ 2019 8,118 40 1,121 -13.62% 2018 8,982 44 1,512 16.53% 2017 8,640 43 1,298 -Global       ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 43 of 48    Waste   Our global approach to waste is integrated with and influenced by our approach to quality, safety, and environmental  management: We continually seek to improve efficiency and outcomes.
All sites segregate recyclable waste for  disposal.
For 2018 and 2019, we have measured the total waste sent to landfill s and recycled in all but our UK site.
In  our measured sites, we have achieved a recycling rate of 57% and 60% in 2018  and 201 9, respectively : see Table 18.
Landfill waste has increased , mainly due to the cha nge in the s ecure product destruction process  at all sites .
In our  Sydney manufacturing site, the waste excluding the secure product destruction is 77.9% of the total waste  to landfill s.
Increasingly, waste manufacturing and office equipment materials are being diverted from landfill s as their  component elements, including rare earth metals, become more valuable.
Packaging and pallets from our supply  chain are the main waste contributors.
Many sites, including Sydney and Munich,  have implemented reusable cartons  or pallets for our inte rnal logistics.
We also worked with suppliers to reduce or return packaging for reuse, where  feasible.
At our Chatsworth , California, USA site , we use evaporative heating to dispose of water -based coolant on a  small scale.
In Sydney, more deliberate actio n on both administrative and production waste has been  triggered by the  formalization of our environmental program with ISO  14001 accreditation since 2010.
Recycling has been improved  with suitable bins plus  strong signage and other communication to influe nce behavior .
Any existing or new waste  material is identified and considered for recycling by the production teams and by our recycling partners who carry  appropriate licenses.
Ongoing efforts to enhance product design can further reduce waste over its li fecycle from  production, packaging to its end of life.
Our recent achievements include resiz ing our PET autobag  to reduce 44% of   the material used for multiple products , result ing in a material reduction of approximately 14 tons each year;  review ing accept ability criteria of parts to reduce reject rate (and wastage) due to minor cosmetic defects across  multiple products.
This result ed in a reduction of the reject rate by up to 15%.
There are multiple sustainability projects underway to improve waste -to-landfill rates.
For example, the Sydney site is  investigating the introduction of an onsite shredder that  would enable shredding for destruction but with additional  pre-sorting capabilities that  would enable some recycling of hard plastics, PCB boards , and other materials to occur  post shredding.
There is an additional waste stream being implemented to recover some energy from dry waste  rather than send it to landfill s.
Finally, there are multiple  environmental management system  (EMS ) and projects  aimed at reducing general waste from increasing sustainability in the design and manufacture of our products.
The education on environmental improvements is also embedded within our continuous improvement culture where  we enable a quick assessment to capture impro vements made by employees and combine efforts for environmental  targeted improvements.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 44 of 48    Table 18: Waste from global operations, ex cluding the United Kingdom   Landfill waste (T) Δ Recycling Waste (T) Recycling Rate (%) 2019 1,370 -21.29% 2,065 60% 2018 1,741 218.56% 2,283 57% 2017 556* 10.30% 1,761 76%Global ex-UK   *excludes all of Europe   Environmental stewardship   Land, water and biodiversity impacts   Our operations do not have a large impact on the immediate environment.
All but our Sydney premises have been  built or are leased in existing commercial locations.
The major Sydney and San Diego premises feature drought- tolerant landscaping and plantings.
Sustainable design and packaging   We understand the influence that product design has on the environmental impact of our product manufacture, use ,  and disposal.
While we implement lean manufacturing to minimize waste in both product manufacture and packaging,  sustainable life -cycle design is now becoming more of a focus.
It has been set as one of our EMS objectives  to  incorporate sus tainability into the design of our products and packaging where possible.
For example, there are  improvements to the design and packaging of a new mask product that significantly reduce s the environmental  impacts of the product.
When compared to its predec essor, the new product consumes less raw materials and  packaging, generates less waste matter in manufacturing, has better recyclability, and increases efficiency in  transportation.
Based on prior learnings, we are now looking to create better consistency across multiple mask  platforms to take the entire end -to-end lifecycle of a product into consideration, without compromising the  performance and integrity of the product.
Our current five focal areas are:   • Packaging ( consider packaging early in the design phase);   • Substances ( avoid the use of hazardous substances);   • Material efficiency ( minimize  use of material for part and packaging design);   • Manufacturing efficiency ( minimize  the amount of waste, energy , and resources used to create parts for  production);  and  • Circularity ( maximize  use of and communicating recyclable or reusable materials on part and packaging.
Design  for end of life considerations.)      ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 45 of 48    Hazardous materials   The European Directive on the Restriction of Hazard ous Substances (RoHS) in electrical and electronic equipment has  applied to medical devices since 2014.
The RoHS directive restricts lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium,  Polybrominated biphenyls ( PBB), and Polybrominated diphenyl ethers ( PBDE ) to 0.1% of product weight, and  cadmium to 0.01% of product weight.
All ResMed electrical devices placed on the market after this date compl y with  the RoHS Directive.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 46 of 48    Supply Chain   We set out our expectations of supplier environmental performance in the ResMed Supplier Manual .
We reward  suppliers by our rating system if they operate to a certified e nvironmental standard (e.g., ISO  14001).
Our regular  quality audit of supplier facilities includes observations on environmental performance.
Our expectations of suppliers include:   • Maintaining and disclosing up -to-date, traceable information for every individual (homogeneous) material , as  required;   • Compliance with the Restriction of Hazard ous Substances directive.
RoHS status is confirmed as part of the  approval process on all new components and changes to existing components ;  • Supply pre -RoHS original or, where directed, alternative RoHS -compliant parts ;   • Compliance with Health Canada requi rements for disclosure of DEHP (found in flexible PVC) or BPA (found in  polycarbonate) ; and  • Compliance with the European  Union’s  2006 Registration, Evaluation, Authori sation , and Restriction of  Chemicals (REACH) regulations for substances of very high concern.
ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 47 of 48    Appendix 1 – References to GRI core metrics    Section  Page  GRI Reference   Our Approach to ESG  4  101; 102   Key ESG Indicators   5 200s; 300s; 400s   ResMed In Brief   6 101; 102   Locations and Businesses   6 102  Administration, Product Development and Distribution   7 102  Manufacturing Operations   7 102  Sales and Marketing   7 102;202   Relevant Awards   9 102  Corporate Governance   11 102  Business Integrity   15 205  Ethics and corruption   15 205  Political Transparency  16 415  Intellectual Property   16 201  Our People  17 400s; 102   Diversity   17 405  Diversity and Disability  19  406  Health and Safety   23 403  Systems and Culture  23  403  Claim and Insurance Costs  24  403  Career Development and Learning   21 404  Employee Consultation and Communication   22 401; 402   Human Rights  25  400s   Compensation and Working Conditions  20  401  Work -life Balance   21 401  Health and Wellbeing   22 401; 403   Working Environment   23 401; 403   Employee Engagement  23  402  Employee Turnover   24 401; 402   Our Products   26 416  Quality, Innovation and Continuous Improvement   26 416  Research and Development   26 416; 417; 201   Product Quality   27 416  Quality with Suppliers  27 416; 308      ResMed 18/19 Report on ESG Issues                                                                                                                         Page 48 of 48    Supplier Networks   28 Voluntary   Warranties   28 Voluntary   Customer Satisfaction   28 418; 416   Product Safety   28 416  Marketing and Labeling  29  417  Biocompatability  Testing  29  Voluntary   Military Uses  29  Voluntary   Community   30 400s   Contributions to Health   30 416  Community Contributions  31  413  Industry and Advocacy Involvement  32  102  Privacy   33 418  Anti-Trust Behavior  33  206  Environment  35  300s   Policies and Systems  35  300s; 400s   Review   36 Voluntary   Compliance and Incidents   36 300s   Production Efficiencies   36 300s   Energy Use   37 302  Greenhouse  Gas Emissions  40  302  Water   41 303  Paper   42 301  Waste  43  306  Environmental Stewardship  44  300s