ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  1 of 42              Report on Environment,   Social and Governance Issues   December 2017     ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  2 of 42       Report scope and references   This Environment Social and Governance report encompasses the global operations, impact and compliance of  ResMed Inc., including its international subsidiaries.
Any gaps in the data are indicated in the relevant section.
The report focuses on the three fi nancial years ended 30 June 2015 –2017.
This report also provides background  to issues relevant to that period.
This report should be read with documents filed with the US Securities Exchange Commission, in particular our  2017 Form 10 -K annual report  and our 2017 Form DEF  14A proxy statement  for shareholders.
These filed  documents take precedence over this ESG report in the event of any unintended inconsistency.
All references to years are to fiscal years ended 30 June, unless otherwise noted.
All references to dollars ar e US dollars, unless otherwise noted.
References in this font  are hyperlinked to their source or page reference.
The preparation of the report has been informed by the reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  Reporting Framework.
APPE NDIX  1 at the end of the documents  matches the information in the report with the  relevant GRI indicators.
While this report has been prepared with due care it has not been externally assured.
Further information can be obtained by contacting Justin Italiano at ResMed Inc., Sydney, at +61 2 8884 1000 or  by visiting the Company’s multilingual website at  www.resmed.com .
ResMed Inc   9001 Spectrum Center Blvd   San Diego, CA 92123   United States of America       ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  3 of 42    Table of Contents   OUR APPROACH TO ESG  .
5  Key ESG indicators   RESMED IN BRIEF   .
8  Locations and businesses  .
9  Administration, product development  and distribution   Manufacturing operations  .
10  Sales and marketing   Relevant awards   GOVERNANCE  .
12  Corporate governance   Governance structure   Board independence   Board performance   Board and executive remuneration  .
13  Risk and ESG oversight  .
14  Business integrity   Ethics and corruption  .
15  Political transparency   Intellectual property   OUR PEOPLE  .
17  Who we are   Diversity   Gender diversity   Diversity and disability  .
18  Hiring policies   How we work   Health an d safety  .
19 ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  4 of 42    Systems and culture   Injury rates   Claim and insurance costs   Career development and learning  .
20  Employee consultation and communication   Human rights   Compensation and working conditions .
21  Work -life balance   Health and wellbeing   Working environment   Employee engagement  .
22  Employee turnover   OUR PRODUCTS  .
23  Quality, innovation and continuous improvement   Research and development   Product quality   Quality at ResMed  .
24  Quality with suppliers   Supplier networks   Warranties   Customer satisfaction   Product safety  .
25  Marketing and labelling   Animal testing   Military products and uses   COMMUNITY  .
26  Contributions to health   Other community contributions  .
27  Industry and advocacy involvement  .
28 ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  5 of 42    Government contributions   Privacy   Anti-trust behaviour   ENVIRONMENT  .
29  Policies and systems   Sydney manufacturing site   Other sites  .
30  Review   Compliance and incidents   Production efficiencies   Energy use  .
31  Sources and use of energy   Manufacturing energy   Non-manufacturing electricity  .
32  Greenhouse gas emissions   Water  .
33  Paper   Waste  .
34  Environmental stewardship  .
35  Land, water and biodiversity impacts   Sustainable design and packaging   Hazardous materials   Supply chain   Appendix 1 – references to GRI core metrics  .
36         ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  6 of 42      OUR APPROACH TO ESG   We have now reported several times on our environment, social and governance performance and most of our  metrics continue to improve.
Our purpose at ResMed is to change lives with every breath and we work to fulfill this   purpose in everything we do.
Our ESG strategy is grounded in business sustainability because our innovation,  sound business practices and operational excellence are key to our growth, now and in the future.
We are deeply  committed to team -member engagemen t as well as hiring, developing and advancing the best talent.
Our corporate  culture demands high levels of innovation and a rigorous code of ethics from our global team.
ResMed was founded in 1989 to provide global leadership in sleep and respiratory medi cine.
Our mission today is  three -fold: to improve the quality of life for people affected by sleep -disordered breathing and COPD, to prevent the  progression of these and other chronic diseases, and to reduce the healthcare costs associated with these disea ses  by keeping patients out of the hospital and safe and healthy at home.
With each year, and with ever -increasing detail, new research reveals the role sleep -disordered breathing plays in  personal and population health.
Untreated sleep -disordered breath ing has been linked to cardiovascular disease,  type 2 diabetes, peri -operative risk, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and beyond.
Untreated sleep - disordered breathing is also an occupational health and safety hazard and serves as a drain on bus iness, as sleep - deficient workers fail to meet their full potential of productivity.
The pursuit of healthy sleep and breathing is important and demands our focus.
Real improvements to people’s  lives are well within reach: this impact includes clinical ou tcome improvement as well as improvement in quality of  life.
The potential economic benefits to national healthcare budgets are, on a different measure, equally significant.
Our approach to ESG issues follows this corporate purpose and drives our prioriti es.
What we do behind the scenes  to deliver quality, science -driven products and services touches many of the ESG issues reflected in this report.
We invest heavily in research and development, both through our own world -class team efforts, and in partnership  with key outside research organizations that can help us broaden our impact.
Our corporate culture demands and  values this innovation, not just in medical science, but also in market development and operating excellence.
Strict  legal compliance  and high performance on quality, environmental, privacy, data security and safety issues are all  integral to the global ResMed culture.
We know that our performance and products and solutions are only as good as our people.
We seek the best people  we can find, and support them well.
We understand that people - our own team, our customers, our suppliers and  our ultimate customer, the patient – all need an environment and culture that encourages and promotes the best  outcomes.
We are proud that our environm ental and governance record is sound, and that our social contribution  is substantial in the communities that we serve.
We are also proud that in the past 12 months, we improved more  than 12 million lives and we aspire to change 20 million lives by 2020, l iterally keeping patients breathing.
We are  proud of our accomplishments and thank you for your contributions to our ongoing ESG journey as we continue to  pursue our purpose of changing lives with every breath for every patient in the world with sleep apne a and COPD .
Michael “Mick” Farrell   Chief Executive Officer   ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  7 of 42    Key ESG indicators   Table 1 captures our significant data.
We present more detailed data on the indicated pages,  for our primary manufacturing and distribution sites over the three -year period.
Table 1: Key ESG performance indicators   ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE  2017  2016  2015   Economic value generated and distributed  (US$’000)1:     Revenue    2,066,737    1,838,713    1,678,912      Cost of goods sold2   864,992    772,216    667,516      Salaries and wages    532,747    444,491    441,058      Interest paid to lenders    28,236    11,206    5,778      Taxes paid to government3   77,396    90,736    85,983      Donation to research foundation    600 600 1600      Donations to other community purposes  235 229 475  Investment in research and development  144,467  118,651  114,865   ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE      Total energy use (GJ)  129,990  128,791  130,317   Energy intensity (GJ/$m rev)  62.9 70.0 77.6  Total scope I and II greenhouse gas emissions (t  CO 2e) 22,290  21,118  20,986                                                               1 Detailed financial ac counts are disclosed in our 2017  Annual Report at http://investor.resmed.com/investor -relations/default.aspx .
2 Includes all payments to third parties for materials and services used in production.
3 Includes major income tax measures .
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  8 of 42    Significant NO, SO, and other air emissions  0 0 0  Total water withdrawal (kL) **  64,083  51,937  80,690   Percentage of waste recycled by weight ***  76% 77% 75%  Paper use (sheets per person per year)  1,298  2,041  2,967   Monetary value of environmental fines and sanctions  $0 $0 $0  SOCIAL PERFORMANCE  2017  2016  2015   Annual voluntary employee turnover ****  15.4%  17.1%  16.1%  Fatalities  0 0 0  Lost time injury rate (injuries per million employee  hours)  1.66 2.36 2.98  Percentage senior (VP or above) executives female  21% 18% 20%  Material breaches of marketing and labelling  regulations  0 0 0  Monetary value of fines and sanctions for production  or market -related non -compliance  $0 $0 $0                                 ** Major sites Australia and US only  *** Global ex -Europe **** Voluntary            ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  9 of 42    RESMED IN BRIEF   ResMed (NYSE: RMD, ASX: RMD), a world -leading connected health company with more than 4 million cloud - connected devices for daily remote patient monitoring, changes lives with every breath.
Our award -winning devices  and software solutions help treat and manage sleep apnea, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other  respiratory conditions .
Our 6,000 -member team strives to i mprove patients’ quality of life, reduce the impact of  chronic disease and save healthcare costs in more than 120 countries.
When we were founded in 1989, our primary purpose was to commercialize a treatment, developed by Professor  Colin Sullivan, for suff erers of obstructive sleep apnea.
This treatment, nasal Continuous Positive Airway Pressure  (CPAP), was the first successful non -invasive treatment for obstructive sleep apnea.
CPAP systems deliver  pressurized air, typically through a nasal mask, to preven t collapse of the upper airway during sleep.
There is also mountin g clinical evidence of the strong association and detrimental health consequences for patients  suffering from untreated sleep -disordered breathing and co -morbidities such as cardiac disease,  diabetes, chronic  obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension and obesity.
For example, studies have shown that sleep -disordered  breathing is present in 83% of patients with drug -resistant hypertension, 72% of patients with type 2 diabetes1, 77%  of patien ts with obesity2 and 76% of patients with congestive heart failure3.
To maintain our position as a global leader, we remain committed to innovation.
We continue to invest approximately  6 to 7% of our revenue in research and development, allowing us to develop award -winning products for the  diagnosis and treatment of sleep -disordered breathing and other respiratory disorders.
In the last five years alone,  we have developed 32 products (see 2017 annual report on Form 10 -K for details).
Our growth has been fuelled by geographic expansion, increased awareness of respiratory conditions as a  significant health concern among physicians and patients, and our research and product development efforts.
We  see future opportunities to identify and treat even more patients and sufferers of sleep -disordered breathing and  other respiratory disorders.
We view our growth strategy over three horizons.
The first horizon is in our primary existing market of obstructive sleep apnea treatme nt, w here telemedicine is an  increasingly important factor.
Connected health digital technologies enable the secure remote collection and transfer  of information.
Data exchange software integrates sleep and respiratory treatment data from patient management  platforms with our customer’s in -house or third -party electronic medical records, billing and care management  applications.
This may change the current clinical pathways for following patients using our devices, and it provides  an opportunity to improve our s ervices and reduce overall healthcare costs.
We are investing in expanding our  capabilities in this area.
The second horizon is the treatment of respiratory disease, especially chronic pulmonary disease, or COPD.
Our  devices are used to treat respiratory disease in the hospital and at home.
Our telemedicine technologies in these  areas create integrated connected solutions that are  a key enablers for treatment.
Some patients with advanced  COPD may benefit from the use of ventilation at night, but until rec ently only a small number of COPD patients were  treated using ventilation on a long -term basis.
We believe this gives us a unique opportunity to reach even more  patients.
The third horizon represents our investment in a portfolio of new market options.
These include chronic disease  management, sleep and consumer wellness, and other related adjacent areas, such as atrial fibrillation, heart failure,  and monitoring.
1 Einhorn D et al.
Edocr.
Pract  2007   2 O’Keeffe T and Patterson EJ.
Obes Surg  2004   3 Oldenb urg O et al.
Eur J Heart Fail 2007  ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  10 of 42      Underlying this strategy are several enablers, most importantly, our best -in-class talent.
We employ approximately  6,000 people and sell our products more than 120 countries through a combination of wholly -owned subsidia ries  and independent distributors .
More comprehensive information on ResMed is provided at our website : www.resmed.com  and in our 2017 annual  report  to shareholders.
Locations and businesses   Our principal global operations are summarized in Table 2 below, and discussed by functional areas be low.
The  principal facilities at San Diego and Sydney are owned by ResMed.
We generally lease our other premises.
Table 2: Summary of ResMed locations     Regions    Primary locations    People    Roles   Americas    USA (San Diego CA, Atlanta  GA, Moreno  Valley CA, Chatsworth CA, Atla nta GA),  Canada (Halifax NS)  1,810    administration, manufacture, sales and  marketing, quality assurance,  distribution, customer service, and  product development     Asia - Pacific    Australia, New Zealand,  Malaysia,  Singapore, India, Japan, China,  2,935  manufacturing, quality assurance,  product development, sales and  marketing, customer service,  administration, and IT shared services     Europe      Finland, France, Germany, Ireland,  Norway, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden,  Switzerland and the United Kingdom  1,335    administration, distribution, customer  service, sales and marketing, quality  assurance, product development, and  manufacturing   Administration, product development and distribution   ResMed’s corporate headquarters is at its 230,000 square feet facility in San Diego , California.
Further corporate  hubs are at Bella Vista, Sydney, Atlanta Georgia and at Munich -Martinsried, Germany.
Our principal research and  development center is in Sydn ey, with further research conducted at Chatsworth, California; Dublin, Ireland; Halifax,  Nova Scotia; Munich -Martinsried, Germany; Paris, France; and Singapore.
Distribution centers are located in Atlanta  Georgia; Moreno Valley, California; Roermond, Nethe rlands; Abingdon, UK; Basel, Switzerland; Lyon, France and  Bremen, Germany.
Our German home healthcare services are managed from Martinsried and Gremsdorf .
Manufacturing operations   Our principal manufacturing sites are a 155,000 square foot  facility at our Sydney site and a  95,000 square foot   facility in Singapore.
Further manufacturing is undertaken at a manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China .
Further  manufacturing is conducted at Freudenstadt, Germany, Lyon, France, Chatsworth, USA and Johor Bahru, Malaysia.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  11 of 42    Sales and marketing   We currently market our products in more than 120  countries using a network of distributors and our direct sales  force.
• North America and Latin America ( Approximately 63% of net revenues) .
Our products are typically  purchased by a home healthcare dealer who then sells the products to the patient.
The decision to purchase our  products is made or influenced by one or more of the following individuals or organizations: the prescribing  physician  and his or her s taff; the home healthcare dealer; the insurer and the patient.
Our field sales organization  comprises  regional territory representatives, program development specialists and regional sales directors.
We also market our products directly to sleep clinics.
Patients who are diagnosed with OSA and prescribed  CPAP treatment are typically referred by the diagnosing sleep clinic to a home healthcare dealer to fill the  prescription.
The home healthcare dealer, in consultation with the referring physician, will ass ist the patient in  selecting the equipment, fitting the patient with the appropriate mask and setting the flow generator pressure to  the prescribed level.
• Europe and Asia Pacific ( Approximately 37% of net revenues).
In Europe we have wholly -owned subsidiar ies  in Austria, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Norway, Netherlands, Poland, Sweden,  Switzerland and the United Kingdom, and use independent distributors elsewhere.
In many European countries  we sell our products to home healthcare deale rs who then sell the products to patients.
In Germany, we also  operate a home healthcare company that provides products and services directly to patients, and receives  reimbursement directly from third -party government or private insurance payors.
In Asia Pacific we have wholly - owned subsidiaries in Australia, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand, China and India, and  use a combination of our direct sales force and independent distributors.
Relevant awards   We have received the following recent awards relevant to our ESG performance:   Table 3: ResMed awards 2015 -2017   Year  Award  Recipient  Awarded for   2017  MD+DI  ResMed  Medtech Company of the Year (finalist)   2017  MD+DI  ResMed  Top Medical Device Company to Work for   2017  “JUST 100” Forbes  ResMed  Top U.S. Corporate Citizens   2016  “JUST 100” Forbes  ResMed  Top U.S. Corporate Citizens   2016  Canada’s Top 100 Employers  ResMed - Umbian  Nova Scotia Top Employer   2016  Berg Insight  ResMed  #1 healthcare company in remote patient  monitoring  ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  12 of 42    Year  Award  Recipient  Awarded for   2016  San Diego Business Journal  ResMed  Workplace Health - Healthiest Medium -sized  Company (finalist)   2015  Red Dot product design Award  ResMed S+  International product design   2015  Red Dot product design Award  AirSense 10 and AirCurve 10  International product design   2015  Berg Insight  ResMed  #1 healthcare company in remote patient  monitoring           ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  13 of 42    GOVERNANCE   ResMed’s standards for corporate governance and business integrity are set by corporate and listed company  regulation, and by the corporate governance guidelines and the code of business conduct and ethics adopted by  our board of directors and published on our website, www.resmed.com .
In keeping with the need to maintain  investor, regulator and public trust in our products, services and operations, these standards are diligently set and  vigorously pursued.
Corporate governance   Our board has adopted corporate governance guidelines to assist in exercising its responsibilities in accordance  with our constitution and all applicable laws and regulations.
These include the regulations of the US Securities and  Exchange Commi ssion and the rules of both the New York Stock Exchange and the Australian Securities Exchange  (as applicable), on which ResMed is listed.
The guidelines are posted on our website, www.
resmed .com .
Our board  will continue to evaluate its governance structures as ResMed’s business evolves, to ensure that we manage the  business for the long -term interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
A more detailed review of our  governance is provided in our annual proxy statement  to shareholders, issued under section 14(a) of the Securities  Exchange Act .
Governance structure   ResMed is governed by a board of eight directors and through three standing board committees: audit (3 directors),  compensation (3 directors), and nominating and governance (3 directors).
Each committee comprise s solely of  independent directors.
Michael (“Mick”) Farrell has served as ResMed's chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors since  March 2013.
Robert (“Rob”) Douglas was simultaneously appointed as ResMed’s president, in addition to his   continuing role as our chief operating officer.
Our founder, Dr Peter Farrell, is our non -executive chairman of the  board.
Ron Taylor serves as our lead independent director.
Board independence   All board members other than Dr Farrell and Mick Farrell ar e independent under the listing standards of the NYSE,  with no material commercial or personal relationship with ResMed that would impair their independence.
Currenlty,  our independent directors and their tenures, are as follows: Dr Gary Pace has been a di rector since 1994; Messrs  Rich Sulpizio, Ron Taylor and Jack Wareham since 2005; Ms. Carol Burt since 2013; and Ms. Karen Drexler since  November 2017.
All directors must stand for re -election every three  years, on a staggered basis, to ensure continuity  of board member knowledge of our company and the industry in which we operate.
There is no limit to the number  of three -year terms, nor a set retirement age .
From February 2010, our board appointed the chair of its nominating and governance committee to a ne w position  of lead director.
The lead director presides over meetings of our independent directors (generally held each quarter),  acts as a liaison between the independent directors and chairman, communicates with stockholders as appropriate,  and fulfils o ther duties that support sound corporate governance.
Under our corporate governance guidelines, directors have direct access to company management to secure  information they need for their duties.
Board performance   Our board’s nominating and governance committee has the delegated purposes of:  ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  14 of 42     evaluating the board’s overall effectiveness in representing stockholders and otherwise contributing to lasting  value creation at ResMed    assisting in selecting board and committee members, and    reviewing developments in corporate governance practices.
The committee oversees an annual formal review of these matters, concentrating on the performance of the board  as a whole rather, as well as that of individual members.
The nominating and governance committee  follows a  process of regularly reviewing board composition and board refreshment, with a long -term perspective, and  maintains a database of desired director skills and experience.
The performance of directors who are seeking re - election at the end of the ir three -year appointment is ultimately reviewed by stockholders through their votes at the  annual stockholder meeting.
Our independent directors review the performance of the chief executive officer  annually .
Board and executive remuneration   Our board’s c ompensation committee reviews the cash and equity compensation of directors and senior  management, including target and actual incentives .
The committee’s in -depth review of executive and director compensation is published in our proxy statement to  stock holders before ResMed’s annual general meetings.
The principles governing our executive compensation  program include:    pay-for-performance.
A significant portion of our executives’ compensation is at -risk and tied to the  achievement of pre -established short -term corporate financial objectives through our annual cash incentive  programs that are earned solely based on achieving our corporate and regional goals of adjusted net sales  and adjusted net profit as  a percentage of revenue, weighted equally.
These two measures represent  fundamental financial metrics: top -line sales, and the portion of those top -line sales that fall to the bottom - line.
These fundamental metrics are critical drivers of our stockholder re turns.
We live with the resulting  financial results and corporate officer payouts were below -target in fiscal year 2017.
 market -competitive compensation .
Our objective is to provide a target total compensation program that is  competitive with similarly -sized US -based public companies in the medical device and medical technology  industries with which we compete for executive talent.
During fiscal year 2017, the committee used a guideline  for our chief executive officer’s total target cash compensation (assum ing a cash short -term incentive earned  for achieving the goals at plan) at approximately the 50th percentile of our U.S. peer group; and that total  target cash compensation should reflect a relatively lower emphasis on salary and a higher percentage of  pay at risk in the form of an annual cash incentive.
This was consistent with the belief that total direct  compensation should at least be at median.
The guideline is broad  to recognize individual situations, and also  allows us to reflect the fact that we set  challenging targets for our short -term incentive programs.
 alignment with stockholder interests .
Equity is a key component of our executive compensation.
We  believe our equity -based incentive award program enhances long -term stockholder value and encour ages  long-term performance, because equity -based incentive awards align our executives’ financial rewards with  those of our stockholders, through appreciation of our stock price.
During fiscal year 2017, we continued our  performance stock unit equity progr am, in which performance stock units represented 50% of the equity value  in our annual grants.
Performance criteria for performance stock units granted during fiscal year 2017 are  based on absolute total shareholder return over a four -year measurement peri od, with an opportunity to  accelerate payouts after year three, if total shareholder return performance is high enough.
The committee  believes this design aligns with actual stockholder experience, reduces point -to-point volatility, rewards  performance for  which executives are accountable, and provides a strong retention mechanism.
In fiscal year  2017, we also continued our practice of providing executives the choice to select whether the balance of their ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  15 of 42    equity awards would be entirely in the form of stock  options, entirely in restricted stock units or evenly split  (in value) between the two.
 Informed decisions .
The committee retains Frederic W Cook & Co., Inc., an independent compensation  consultant, to advise the committee on executive compensation matters for executive officers and to perform  a comprehensive market analysis of our executive compensation program, pay levels, and relative operating  performance.
FW Cook performs no work for us other than its work providing executive compensation  consul ting services to the committee   Risk and ESG oversight   While our full board retains general risk oversight, our board committees oversee particular risks, periodically  updating the full board.
The primary risk responsibilities for the committees are:   Audit committee  Overseeing financial risk, capital risk and financial compliance  risk, and internal controls over financial reporting   Compensation  committee  Overseeing our compensation philosophy and practices and the  balance between risk -taking and rewards to senior officers   Nominating and  governance  committee  Evaluating each director’s independence and the effectiveness  of our corporate governance guidelines and code of business  conduct, and overseeing management’s succession planning   Oversight of general bu siness risks, including but not limited to material environmental and social risks, is retained  by the full board.
A company -wide business risk analysis is undertaken periodically by management.
The following ESG -related risks are among those that face the business:    Government and private insurance plans may not adequately reimburse our customers for our products    Health care reform, including the US Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and changes to the  US  Federal Drug Administration’s 510(k) process, may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our  results of operations, and    Other changes to the FDA’s quality and testing standards, and failure to comply promptly with those  standards, may have an  adverse effect on our business.
These are in addition to standard business risks such as threats from competition, fluctuations in currency exchange  rates, the challenge of supporting continued growth and business acquisitions, disruptions to supply, and intellectual  property claims: see our 201 7 annual report .
Business integrity   The best protection of integrity is to instill a culture that values honesty and ethics: doing what’s right every day;  relying on our people’s good judgment and sense of fairness; reporting unethical behaviour; and taking appropriate  action.
All our direct ors, officers and employees are nonetheless guided by our code of business conduct and ethics,  which i s published on our website .
The code summarizes the compliance and ethical standards we expect of our  people, the procedures for any suspected breach, and the consequences of any substantiated breach.
The code  also constitutes ResMed’s code of ethics under US law and th e New York Stock Exchange’s listing standards.
It  deals with conflicts of interest; confidential information; fair dealing with customers, suppliers and competitors; and  compliance with financial reporting, insider trading and other financial market regula tion.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  16 of 42    The code is not intended to be a comprehensive rulebook, and cannot address all situations that  may arise.
It  provides contacts for the company’s general counsel and ethics compliance officer should any employee require  assistance beyond an immediat e supervisor.
Where permissible4, we also have a toll -free hotline to an independent  company for employees or others who want to speak up but prefer to remain anonymous.
The code prohibits  retaliation against any employee who has taken action in good faith  to seek help on or report a suspected breach  of the code.
Ethics and corruption   The code insists on compliance with laws and regulations covering bribery and gratuities, political contributions,  medical sales, and kickbacks.
Under the code, client entertainment should not exceed reasonable and customary  business practice where allowed, and in any case employees should not provide entertainment or other benefits  that could be viewed as an inducement to or a reward for customer purchase decisions.
Fac ilitating and expediting  payments are prohibited unless pre -approved by legal counsel.
All employees are required to undertake business ethics training relevant to their position and developed by our  legal advisers, using our online Learning Management Sys tem facility where available and augmented by face -to- face training where it is not.
Many positions receive additional guidance materials and competency training – for  example, to ensure compliance with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act,  and Australian  Competition and Consumer Act.
In many jurisdictions compliance officers have been assigned and trained, and  compliance guides published.
We take seriously, investigate and respond appropriately to any potential breaches of the code.
Inte rnal audits of  compliance standards, processes, practices, behaviours and outcomes continue throughout the business as  informed by our enterprise -wide risk assessments with oversight from our board audit committee.
We revise the  subject matter of audit and  training as part of the annual planning for internal audit and for our controls & compliance  process, and additionally on the advice of our legal counsel and external advisers.
Political transparency   In it’s Code of Conduct, ResMed prohibits political contributions by the Company or by employees on behalf of the  Company except as approved in advance by the CEO and subject to review by the Company’s Global General  Counsel.
ResMed has made a single contr ibution of USD 2,500 to a commemorative function hosted by the Republican Party.
Intellectual property   We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and non -disclosure agreements to  protect our proprietary technology and rights.
Through our various subsidiaries, as of the date of this annual report, we own or have licensed rights to  approximately 1,127 issued United States patents (including approximately 430 design patents) and approximately  2,083 issued foreign patents.
In addition, there are approximately 468 pending United States patent applications  (including approximately 44design patent applications), approximately 952 pending foreign patent applications,  approximately 983 registered foreign designs and 50 pending fo reign designs.
Some of these patents, patent  applications and designs relate to significant aspects and features of our products.
4 In some countries, local laws limit employees ability to report anonymously.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  17 of 42     Of our patents, 222 United States patents and 483 foreign patents are due to expire in the next five years.
There  are 99 fore ign patents due to expire in 2018, 46 in 2019, 134 in 2020, 75 in 2021, and 129 in 2022.
There are 54  United States patents due to expire in 2018, 17 United States patents in 2019, 72 United States patents in 2020, 33  United States patents in 2021, and 46 United States patents in 2022.
We believe that the expiration of these patents  will not have a material adverse impact on our competitive position.
OUR PEOPLE   We know that our innovation, products and operational performance are only as good as our people .
We seek the  best people we can find, and support them beyond market norms.
We understand that they need an environment  and culture that supports and encourage s their productive best.
These factors are reinforced in our employee code  of business conduct &  ethics and by formal policies on workplace behavior, discrimination and harassment, health  and safety, career development and employee benefit programs.
Our measures of safety, remuneration and  employee engagement are strong while our rate of employee tur nover is in line with or less than industry  benchmarks.
We continue to invest in a global human capital management information system which we expect will improve our  ability to deliver globally consistent and reliable data on human capital metrics.
For e xample, our data on employee  absenteeism are not yet globally reliable and consistent and so are not included in this document.
Who we are   We employ approxim ately the equivalent of 6,046 people, of which 93% are full time.
Table 4: ResMed’s people, 30 June 2017     Total  Full time  Male  Full time  Female  Full time   Total  employees  6,046  93% 2,901  98% 3,145  89%  Americas  1,750  98% 856 100%  894 96%  Asia Pacific  2,861  95% 1,358  98% 1,503  93%  Europe  1,435  84% 687 95% 748 74%  Diversity   ResMed is an equal opportunity employer and makes employment decisions on the basis of merit.
We do not tolerate  any harassment on the basis of race, color, creed, gender, religion, marital status, age, ancestry, disability or medical  condition, sexual ori entation, military status or any other unlawful consideration.
We maintain programs t o support  equity and diversity in Australia, France and the US, each with an annual review and action plan, through which we  aim to achieve desired levels of gender divers ity (which we measure) and cultural diversity (which we do not).
Gender diversity   Table 5 below  shows the percentage of our employees who are female, at four levels of seniority.
These figures  change from year to year as individuals join, are promoted into and leave at various levels.
As individuals enter more  senior ranks, they are likely to be at o r below the mid -point of the compensation range for the position compared  with those who have held a position meritoriously at the same level for a longer time.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  18 of 42    As our global operations continue to expand we will endeavour to locate and position ourselves  to emerging markets.
Doing so allows us to better serve our customers, connect with and understand our end users and to better mitigate  supply chain risks.
In all our sites , our commitment to increasing opportunities for female employment remains  strong .
Our initiatives are summarized below.
Table 5: Employee gender profile by seniority band (US, EMEA -APAC)          Executives   VP and above  Senior  Mid-Junior  Production   Female  Salary*  Female  Salary  Female  Salary  Female**  Salary**   2017*  21% 80% 30% 95% 47% 90% 77% 90%  2016*  18% 88% 29% 98% 49% 84% 77% 93%  2015  19% 89% 29% 90% 43% 84% 65% 93%  - Data as at 1 July in the respective years       - Only regular full time salaries are captured     - Production classified as any EE under the manufacturing bonus plan   - Mid-Jnr (Level 1 -4), Senior (Level 5 -7), VP -Exec (Level 8 -9)    - Current FX rates  used to calculate USD equivalent salaries     - Average of average female salary vs male salary within country used for production staff     Initiatives to continue to support female employment include alternative rost ering and part -time employment,  a  remuneration review, an engineering careers ladder that provides supportive career development pathways, a  coaching and mentoring program that targets high potential female employees and tertiary engineering students,  sponsorship of the Women in Enginee ring group in Australia, and paid participation in the Athena group for women  professionals in San Diego.
There is no distinction on employment benefits based on gender.
We provide paid and  unpaid parental leave to eligible employees who have met service a nd other eligibility criteria.
Additional parental  leave accords with relevant state or federal laws.
Requests from mothers returning to work for reduced working  hours have been accommodated, and we provide appropriate first -aid and a breast -feeding area f or employees if  required.
Diversity and disability   ResMed makes all reasonable accommodations to enable a qualified employee or applicant with a disability to  perform his or her job.
Access for people with physical disabilities meets building code require ments for widened  walkways, doorways and car parking.
In France, a successful partnership with local community organizations has  assisted with placements, job adaptation and specific equipment.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  19 of 42    Hiring policies   Our hiring policies are merit -based, with a r eferral program from existing employees in some locations.
All our  manufacturing facilities, with the exception of our Malaysian manufacturing facility, have been in OECD -member  countries , and all facilities have appropriate management and staff available locally .
How we work   ResMed has a working style based on five key behaviors: We start with best practice, we must experiment   courageously, we stay laser -focused on our top priorities and we are decisive in our approach.
These behaviors are  reiterated in our workplaces at practical opportunities, beginning with recruitment.
They reflect our high expectations  for the quality of work needed in our business, our regard for people as both employees and customers, and a very  low tolerance for  non-compliance.
Compliance to environmental, safety and labour standards are integral to our  operational ethos, and to our business integrity .
Comprehensive internal communications and consultation support  those stan dards and their attainment.
Health and safety   Our approach to health and safety uses both our management systems and our quality culture  to minimize workplace  incidents and maximize the care taken for employees who suffer from a workplace incident.
Our global approach to  health and safety is led by our Australian manufacturing operations, with support at regional and country levels ; our  safety approaches and performance measures are progressively adopted globally .
Systems and culture   Our safety management systems (for example, our US Workplace Injury and Illness Prevention) are generally the  same format and nature as our quality  and environmental  management systems, so that our people are familiar with  how the systems operate and know what is expected of them.
Our health and safety organizational structure  incorp orates both workplace committees a nd health and safety experts across our global sites as appropriate to  local needs.
Inherent in our quality culture is a strong safety imperative.
In Sydney, safety walks, team briefings and risk  assessments identify risk s before incidents occur.
This mid -operational risk identification is driving incident rates  lower.
As we successfully reduce risks in the production environment, a higher proportion of our safety and risk  management actions are lower -order ‘administrative ’ actions for controlling residual risks, such as communicating  risks, and providing protective clothing and equipment.
We expect to further reduce incident rates with design factors  and continuous improvement in our operational risk management.
To elimina te risks from the line, product  development engineers look at product design and the manufacturing processes   Health and wellbeing programs at some locations also contribute to lower incident rates.
Our philosophy is that staff  who are physically fit and ab le to concentrate are more aware of risks in their workplace, and better able to identify  and counter them .
Injury rates   The number of incidents requiring time off work for rehabilitation (lost time injuries) has continuously fallen from  2015 to 201 7, indicating an effective management system and sustained focus on continuous improvement: see  Table 6.
Table 6: ResMed Injury rates, global, 2015 –17   2017 2016  2015 ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  20 of 42    Fatalities  0 0 0  Lost time injuries  15 18 21  Lost time injury rate (Injuries per million employee hours)  1.66 2.36 2.98  Total recordable injury rate (per million employee hours)  3.99 7.09 6.24  Claim and insurance costs   In countries where the data is available, our total costs of injury and rehabilitation have fallen over the past three  years.
This reduction reflects fewer incidents, fewer serious incidents, and improved  administrative rehabilitation  processes .
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  21 of 42    Career  development and learning   Staff in key roles at ResMed have specific career and development pathways, designed in consultation with their  operational management, human resources, and Learning Centre specialists.
We encourage employees to take  advantage of online, on -campu s and tertiary learning avenues  and we provide appropriate financial support.
The ResMed Learning Centre, co -located across our major centres , supports all employees in their career  development.
The Learning Centre is a state -of-the-art on -campus learning facility for face -to-face and on -line  training, as well as a multi -disciplinary team of learning and content specialists.
The ResMed Learning Centre online courses are role -specific, with formal tracking of employee completion and  performance.
Online and face -to-face courses on operational compliance issues are developed and delivered in - house.
Online compliance courses on the code of business c onduct and ethics, diversity, US Foreign Corrupt  Practices Act and health & safety are developed by our Learning Centre with external subject -matter advisers.
In 2015, we launched MyDay: our new approach to performance and development.
MyDay was designed to ensure  that employees and managers have regular feedback and conversations about performance goals and performance,  to enable our high performance culture, and to create an environment to help the global ResMed team achieve our  strategy to impact 20 mil lion lives by 2020.
We have also upgraded our online Learning Management System and reinvented the way we learn.
MyLearning  was launched to provide a simplified online system, with access to on -demand knowledge databases and training  material, anytime any where.
Employee consultation and communication   Our management and labour workforce communicates effectively, including informal committees and regular  campus and team briefings and meetings.
We track concerns, including through global, local country and  department surveys of employee issues.
In certain European countries, workers are represented by work councils, who are independent of trade unions and  with whom we must consult on any plan regarding the organization, health and safety, and working conditi ons.
We  have over 500 employees at ResMed Homecare in Germany, for example, 11 of whom serve on the work council.
One employee is allowed to spend 100% of their time on council matters, with full pay.
In our French operations, 21  employee work council memb ers represent more than 300 employees.
Consistent with the law, our employees are free to join any organized labour union or association.
We do not keep  a record of such members.
Subject to consultation where applicable with the European work councils, wo rkplace  relations issues are negotiated directly with our employees, updating unions as required or requested.
Human rights   Our corporate values of trust, respect for the individual and transparent communication support our high regard for  human rights an d their importance in all our domestic and international operations.
In particular, we uphold, and  expect our employees to support each other in upholding, their rights.
These encompass freedom from  discrimination and degrading action  of any kind; their ri ght to personal security; freedom of thought, conscience and  religion; peaceful assembly and association; just and favourable working conditions; rest and leisure; education;  and to participate in the cultural life of their community.
Our employment poli cies uphold these rights in several areas.
Rights protection is an integral part of our employee  training; in particular, we emphasise our responsibility to protect against discrimination and harassment, which is  detailed in our code of business conduct an d ethics and formal policies on workplace behaviour, discrimination and  harassment, health and safety, career development and employee benefit programs.
In cases of proven serious  misconduct or breach of employment agreements, appropriate disciplinary acti on has been taken, up to and  including employment termination.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  22 of 42    ResMed discloses on our website  our policies on child and forced labo r, as required by the California Transparency  in Supply Chains Act.
The ResMed Supplier Manual (issued to suppliers) sets out our requirements for suppliers,  and in turn for their suppliers.
These include the prohibition of child labor (based on the Intern ational Labor  Organisation’s Minimum Age Convention, 1973), and compliance with local occupational health and safety and labor  laws (including slave, prisoner or any other form of forced or involuntary labor).
We reserve the right to request a  higher compl iance standard if we believe that local laws are inconsistent with our corporate values.
There have  been no reported instances of material breach of these policies in the period.
ResMed discloses statements on our website in relation to the UK Modern Slav ery Act.
We have a program aligned with US disclosure requirements for the source of “conflict minerals” in our finished  products .
Compensation and working conditions   Our working conditions provide market -competitive staff benefits in a family -friendly environment.
We have an  employee stock purchase plan in addition to formal service awards and learning and development programs.
In our  major centers (those with more than 10% of our global employees), we benchmark remuneration for all position  levels agai nst relevant peer companies.
We also provide  salary continuance, life insurance, health insurance, and  similar benefits based on local market conditions.
Work -life balance   In addition to market -competitive compensation packages, we support employees and their families with paid time - off, home working arrangements (in some countries, where feasible and approved), and consideration in rostering.
Paid time -off varies with local conditions, but is generally available for sick leave, parental -community -carer l eave,  bereavement leave, and in some locations for limited additional unpaid time -off to attend or partici pate in school  activities, for limited time off for volunteer emergency services, or military service where mandated by local laws.
ResMed maintains a  significant community volunteering program that allows staff to integrate volunteering into their  lives with the support of the company.
Additional leave is available for a range of other personal causes.
Flexible  rostering in Australia and Europe has ena bled a high proportion of our employees to remain full time.
Part -time  transitions have been made available for women returning from parental leave and in limited cases for employees  to pursue higher education.
Health and wellbeing   We recognize the benefi ts of a healthy workforce and adopt a holistic approach to the health and safety of our  people.
Where we are able to provide onsite support for employee fitness we do so, for example at our major  campuses in Sydney and San Diego.
We offer a staff health an d wellbeing program that may variously include on - site blood pressure, cholesterol and heart testing.
Prog rams may include seasonal flu vaccinations, subsidized quit - smoking programs, screening for sleep -disordered breathing, confidential third -party couns elling and referrals on  stress and mental health issues, support for gym membership and in some jurisdictions, company -sponsored private  health insurance.
Working environment   In most locations, we are relatively small teams working from well -appointed commercial premises.
At our major  campuses in Sydney and San Diego we have been able to design and build a collaborative and interactive  environment that underpins our quality, performance and innovation culture.
Field based teams are supported  through com munication, monitoring and general support.
The buildings at the Sydney campus are designed to be efficient facility, to bring together corporate and  manufacturing divisions to facilitate their collaboration and there -by improve the product design, develop ment and  manufacturing.
The iconic Innovation Centre, with its narrow floor plate, oriented towards the north takes advantage  of the Environmental Sustainable Design (ESD) principles.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  23 of 42    We conduct periodic building environment assessments to measure and ins pect the quality of lighting, air, water  and noise for the workplace.
The overall results were compared and concluded to be well within the relevant  standards.
Perceptions   Employee engagement   We measure employee attitudes by a formal, globally -consistent employee survey.
We also perform regular, specific  and localized surveys to ensure we monitor and capture our employee engagement and attitudes during periods  where a global survey is not conducted.
This dual approach allows us to identify and address spec ific local issues  under a global framework in the most efficient manner.
The surveys cover attitudes to ou r leadership and strategy,  our communication and involvement, and our personal, team and company performance.
Where comparable  benchmarks are availabl e, our results are evaluated against international peer groups.
In 2017, we engaged with Perceptyx who independently conducted our latest global employee survey, with the  headline results shown in Table 7 below.
Results were compared to past survey resul ts for trending and used to  help inform our strengths in employee engagement.
The scores below represent the overall percentage of the company who responded favourably to the areas  identified.
We expect to perform another survey within 18 –24 months to con tinue to measure our employee  engagement.
Table 7: ResMed employee engagement, Global   Global employees  % of Favorable responses   2017   Employee engagement  81%  Clear and promising direction  79%  Respectful managers  82%  Proud to work for ResMed  87%    Employee turnover   We experience a relatively low turnover of production and warehousing staff, with turnover of professional staff  closer to comparison indices.
Our overall voluntary turnover has been falling consistently from 2012 to 201 7.
Periodic  organizational change in the form of acquisitions and business structural change may affect turnover rates .
Table 8: Staff voluntary turnover, % of total    2017  2016  2015   Global  15.4 17.1 16.1  Americas  16.0 16.7 21.9  Asia Pacific  12.8 12.1 12.6  Europe  19.8 25.8 17.9    ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  24 of 42    OUR PRODUCTS   Our core business is to improve people’s health and wellbeing by providing innovative and high quality products and  services for sleep -disordered breathing and other chronic conditions.
This focus on product quality and innovation  is reflected not only in the high regard our customers have for our products and services, but in our vigilance in  meeting our safety and marketing obligations.
Quality, innovation and continuous improvement   Our people work to high operational standards.
Our commitment to quality , innovation, regulatory compliance and  continuous improvement is stressed in our global quality policy.
Our key operational sites work to a comprehensive  quality management system  to meet this policy.
Our product qual ity is best reflected in the international awards  we  have received for product design .
For example, in 2015 our AirSense 10 and AirCurve 10 devices won the  prestigious red dot  award for international product design.
We w on the same award in 2014 for our AirFit P10 nasal  pillows and our Astral 150 life support ventilator.
Research and development   We have a strong track record of innovation.
Since introducing our first CPA P device in 1989, we have conducted  an ongoing progr am of product advancement and development.
We continually seek to identify new applications of  our technology for significant unmet medical needs.
We support clinical trials in many countries, including the United  States, Germany, France, the United Kingdo m, Italy, Switzerland, China an d Australia.
We consult with physicians  at major sleep centres throughout the world to identify trends and needs.
New product ideas are also identified by  our marketing staff, direct sales force, our network of distributors, and by our customers and patients.
For our products to remain leaders in very competitive markets, we invest appropriately in innovation, with  approximately 14% of our employees devoted to research and development activities.
In fiscal year 2017, we  inves ted $144.5 million, or approximately 7.0% of our net revenues, in research and development   Table 9: Expenditure on R&D, 201 5-17   2017  2016  2015   R&D/revenues  7% 6% 7%  Revenues ($m) 2,067  1,838  1,678   R&D investment ($m)  144.5  118.7  114.9   Product development staff  880 805 570    Product quality   The quality management system engages our employees and suppliers to ensure our expected product quality.
ResMed has comprehensive systems and processes to ensure our products are designed to meet patient needs  and performance requirements.
We use enginee ring and scientific principles to design and manufacture our  products.
We design manufacturing processes to consistently meet product quality attributes.
We apply these  principles from product conception through commercialisation, and for the product’s life.
We have established data sources and metrics in several quality sub -systems including product development,  supplier performance, manufacturing process controls, equipment controls, field performance a nd complaint  systems, internal, external and supplier audits and product risk assessment.
We monitor data trends and take  appropriate action based on those trends.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  25 of 42    Quality at ResMed   We appreciate the need for our products to work safely, effectively and efficiently.
Our product quality is underpinned  by our quality management system, which takes into account the requirements of ISO 9001 and ISO 13485  standards, the European medical device directive 93/42/EEC, the US FDA Quality System Regulations for medi cal  devices (21 CF R part 820), the MHLW Ministerial Ordinance No.169 and other regulations in our target markets.
ResMed’s quality management system provides an integrated quality plan covering quality practices, resources and  activities.
The main systems include organization management; environment management; change control and  document management; and improvement management, including CAPA, risk management and post market  surveillance.
The quality management system is certified by an independent notified  body.
All of our employees complet e training  in relevant quality management system areas.
We also train employees in  good manufacturing practice, which guides everyday behaviours in a medical device manufactur ing operation, such  as personal hygiene, protective clothing and documentation standards.
We implement a comprehensive internal  audit programme across the entire business – with over 50 internal audits a year – to ensure compliance with the  quality manage ment system and to  help identify improvement opportunities.
Quality with suppliers   ResMed draws over 2,000 individual components or materials from over 170 approved suppliers in our c urrent  product range.
We have a comprehensive supplier approval process, with assessment tools that include on -site  audits according to the assessed risk of the component or service.
We establish standards for supplier  communication, responsibilities, qual ity systems, traceability and environmental aspects.
We require suppliers to  have ISO 9001 or an equivalent quality management system, to be certified by an acceptable third party, and to  adhere to the applicable Jedec, IPC, ANSI, J -STD and SAE standards f or electronic components.
In some cases,  we may approve a supplier that is not ISO 9001 certified, based on our own audit of their quality system, with agreed  and documented controls.
We conduct ongoing supplier audits based on our initial assessment of a supplier, their subsequent performance  and the nature of the supplied goods.
Audit frequency can range from 6 to 48 months.
On average, our supplier  audit team audits 60 -70 suppliers a year.
Most supplied components are also inspected before use for compl iance  against detailed specifications.
Corrective actions are specified for any quality defects, escalating through to  termination of contract for failure to address defects.
Supplier networks   We draw from an international supply chain that provides the be st quality components and supplies available for an  appropriate price.
All else being equal, our manufacturing operations seek suppliers from their local economies,  however the suitability and quality of our supplies is paramount.
To achieve that quality, we seek and value long - term sta ble relationships with our suppliers.
We inform suppliers of our relevant business plans so that they can  align their own plans.
In particular, we encourage suppliers to develop partnerships, networks and relationships that  can support ResMed’s global manufacturing network.
Warranties   We generally offer one -year and two -year limited warranties on our flow generator products.
Warranties on mask  systems are for 90 days.
Our distributors either repair our products with parts supplied by us or arrange shipment  of products to our facilities for repair or replacement.
Customer satisfaction   ResMed keeps comprehensive confidential data on customer attitudes to our product quality and customer service.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  26 of 42    ResMed generally sells products through medical and health prod uct re -sellers in most markets , rather than direct  to users.
But in some markets (most notably Germany  and Australia ) we sell directly to end -users.
In wholesale  markets, health , marketing and privacy regulations limit the extent to which we can engage directly with users.
Accordingly,  much of our data on product quality and customer service is derived from wholesale customer surveys,  rather than surveys of those using our products.
We believe the views of our customers, who also deal with  comparable healthcare products including those of our competitors, are reliable, and in some aspects a more  accurate and less anecdotal reflection of overall performance than those of individual users.
Product safety   We take our product safety obligations seriously, and rely on our quality management s ystem to meet or exceed  regulatory standards in all our markets.
We apply risk management principles from product desig n through  commercialisation.
We continually monitor the field performance and safety of released devices and work with  regulators to ensu re safety and effectiveness for the product’s life.
Marketing and labeling   Product marketing and labelling requirements are set by medical device regulators in all countries in which our  products are sold (for example, by the Therapeutic Goods Administrati on in Australia, and the Food and Drug  Administration in the US).
Products cannot be marketed until an assessment verifies that the se requirements are  met.
All marketing material must correspond with approved labelling.
Our quality management system incorporates  elements to ensure compliance with labelling requirements, including translations.
Our internal quality audit  processes are de signed to capture any flaws in product marketing, user guides and clinical guides, including  translations.
Animal testing   ResMed does not test its products on animals.
As a medical  device company distributing products into the US and  Chinese markets, vari ous regulatory bodies require us to perform biocompatibility testing.
Such tests are conducted  in accordance with the international standard, ISO 10993 -1:2009, “Biological evaluation of medical devices.” Some  of these biocompatibility tests are conducted o n animals.
In keeping with ISO 10993 -2:1992 and revised ISO 10993 -2:2006, “Animal welfare requirements,” when conducting  biocompatibility studies we take all practicable steps to ensure that we meet the required standard of animal care  and welfare specifi ed under those standards.
These considerations are reflected in our internal work instructions  during biocompatibility evaluation.
These instructional workflows detail the steps taken to avoid biological testing of  devices, and if not avoidable, the mini mum extent the standards require.
Military products and uses   Other than where our products are used by military personnel, ResMed and its subsidiaries produce or contribute  to no p roducts or services designed or used for military purposes.
ResMed Motor Technologies Inc.
(RMT, formerly  Servo Magnetics Inc.) formerly supplied military equipment as a legacy of its business before its acquisition by  ResMed.
RMT has not continued with that business and no longer solicits business from defense customers.
Its l ast  sale, in 2008, was of spare parts.
We have no intention or aspiration  to produce or sell arms or equipment designed  solely for military use.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  27 of 42       COMMUNITY   Our community contributions reflect our core focus of improving people’s health and wellbeing by treating their  sleep -disordered breathing or respiratory insufficiency.
We target research in that area, and also help our employees  support their communities with time and with matching donations where appropriate.
We further respect our  communities by be ing vigilant in meeting our product quality, safety and marketing obliga tions, as well as with  customer data privacy.
Contributions to health   Our main busines s is improving people’s health and wellbeing by treating their sleep -disordered breathing,  respir atory insufficiency, or other chronic conditions.
Accordingly, most of our community engagement is on health - related matters, and we continue to raise awareness of the increasing link between the potential effects sleep - disordered breathing or respiratory insufficiency can have on chronic conditions such as cardiovascular dise ases,  diabetes and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, through market and clinical initiatives:      Cardiovascular disease.
Clinical research has demonstrated a high prevalen ce of sleep -disordered breathing  in cardiology patients and has suggested that it may increase the risk of developing cardiovascular disease  and heart failure.
The European Society of Cardiology, the American College of Cardiology and American Heart  Associ ation acknowledge the high prevalence of sleep -disordered breathing in heart failure and have  recommended treatment with Continuous Positive Airway Pressure, or CPAP.
Further studies have highlighted  this importance, showing the worsening of long term outc omes in patients with heart failure and sleep - disordered breathing, and that treating the sleep -disordered breathing may improve these outcomes5.
 Type 2 diabetes.
The International Diabetes Federation strongly recommends that health professionals  treating a patient for either type 2 diabetes or sleep -disordered breathing shou ld also consider the other  condition.6 The American Association of Clinical Endocr inologist s’ guidelines for a comprehensive diabetes  care plan, recommend sleep -disordered breathing screening for adults.7 Other research reported that treating  type 2 diabetes patients, who also had obstructive sleep apnea, with CPAP leads to significantl y lower b lood  pressure and better controlled diabetes whilst affording a cost -effective use of healthcare resources8.
 COPD.
Published research has shown that use of non -invasive positive pressure ventilation can significantly  improve survival of stable hypercapnic COPD patients whilst also improving health related quality of life9.
There  is also a hospital readmission burden f ollowing an acute exacerbation of COPD and use of non -invasive positive  pressure ventilation has been shown to significantly reduce t his as well10.
Our services are also increasingly helping people without chronic conditions:                                                               6 Damy T, Margarit L, et al.
Prognostic impact of sleep -disordered breathing and its treatment with nocturnal ventilation for       chronic hea rt failure.
Eur J Heart Fail .
2012 Sep; 14(9):1009 -19.
6 Shaw JE, Punjabi NM, et al.
Sleep -disordered breathing and type 2 diabetes: a report from the International Diabetes        Federation Taskforce on Epidemiology and Prevention.
Diabetes Res Clin Pract .
2008 Jul;81(1):2 -12  7 Handelsman Y, Mechanick JI, et al.
American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists Medical Guidelines for clinical practice         for developing a diabetes mellitus comprehensive care plan: executive summary.
Endocr Pract .
2011 Mar -Apr;17(2):287 -302.
8 Diabetes Care 2014 Guest   9  Köhnlein T, Windisch W, et al.
Non -invasive positive pressure ventilation for the treatment of severe stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a  prospective, multicentre, randomised, controlled clinical trial.
Lancet Respir Med.
2014 Sep;2(9):698 -705  10 Galli J, Krahnke J, et al.
Home non -invasive ventilation use following acute hypercapnic respiratory failure in COPD.
Respir Med.
2014 May;108(5):722 -8 ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  28 of 42     Transport safety.
One of the largest measurable emerging contribution s to community health that we are  making is in the link between sleep -disordered breathing and occupational safety, and in particular transport  safety.
In a ResMed -sponsored study published in Population Health Management, involving 22,000 members  of the Union Pacific Railroad health plan, findings suggest that a low -cost, patient -focused sleep -disordered  breathing education campaign can improve healthcare outcomes and reduce medical expenses.
After the  campaign was initiated, the healthcare plan realized cost savings of $4.9 million over a two -year period.11   Peri-operative risk.
Much of the adult population remains undiagnosed for sleep -disordered breathing.
The  incidence of postoperative complications of surgery in undiagnosed obstructive sleep apnea patie nts is  significant, so that screening before surgery for high risk patients is necessary.12 Meta -analysis of the  association between obstructive sleep apnea and postoperative outcome showed that incidence of respiratory  failure, cardiac events and intensive  care unit transfers were higher in patients with obstructive sleep apnea13.
We expect studies underway or planned for the future to provide further evidence that treating sleep -disordered  breathing and respiratory insufficiency can improve mortality and mo rbidity, quality of life and also healthcare cost  utilisation in these patients.
In some of these studies, we also work directly with payers and clinically integrated  delivery networks to understand how their costs and outcomes may be impacted by patients  with undiagnosed or  untreated sleep -disordered breathing within their population .
Other community contributions   Our contributions to our local communities are made in both monetary contributions and the time and effort of our  employees.
However, staff involvement in civic affairs is a personal matter, carried on outside office hours, and we  do not track any time spent by our people on their involvement.
Nonetheless, as a company we engage with a large number of community organizations, as do our staff a s  individuals, particularly with local educational and scientific organizations.
We committed significant time and  donated a total of $ 940,663  to over 150 community organizations and academic institutions in the three years to  2017: see Table 10.
Our commu nity focus is on major national relief efforts, on organizations in close proximity to our principal places of  business, and on organizations that are involved in the research or treatment of one the links between sleep - disordered breathing and cardiovascu lar disease, type 2 diabetes, perioperative risk and occupational health and  safety, as well as ventilator support to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  and respiratory diseases.
In 2015, we donated $5 million to support sleep medicine research and care at the University of California, San  Diego School of Medicine.
The funds will establish the Peter C.
Farrell Sleep Center of Excellence, and the Peter  C.
Farrell Presidential Chair in Pulmonary Medicine.
11 Potts KJ, Butterfield DT, et al.
Cost savi ngs associated with an education campaign on the diagnosis and management of       sleep -disordered breathing: a retrospective, claims -based US study.
Popul Health Manag.
2013 Feb;16(1):7 -13  12 Kaw R, Chung F, et al.
Meta -analysis of the association between obstructive sleep apnoea and postoperative outcome.
Br J       Anaesth.
2012 Dec;109(6):897 -906.
13 Iftikhar IH, Khan MF, et al.
Meta -analysis: continuous positive airway pressure improves insulin resistance in patients with       sleep apnea without diabetes.
Ann Am Thorac Soc.
2013 Apr;10(2):115 -20.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  29 of 42      Table 10: Community contributions ($US)     Recipient  2017  2016  2015  Total   Total  200,572  214,780  475,670  891,022   Community organizations  113,442 139,096  170,180  442,718   Academic institutions  87,130  75,684  305,490  468,304     Industry and advocacy involvement   ResMed has  been a consistent supporter of local scientific and industry organizations to help promote the social  and economic benefits of sound science and entrepreneurial enterprise.
Table 7: Industry associations contributions ($US)    2017  2016  2015  Total   Industry associations  503,451 425,877  508,725  1,438,053     Government contributions   Our total tax paid is tabled on page 7 .
We note that the cost of medical care, including the use of our products, in  many of the countries in which we operate is funded in substantial part by government and private insurance  programs.
Privacy   Our data security policies and procedures rigorously pr otect our customers’ personal and health -related privacy, as  well as commercially sensitive and other privacy -protected information.
The regulations governing our protection of  sensitive data include the US Health Insurance Portability and Accountability A ct (HIPAA) and the Health Information  Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act,  the European Privacy Regulations 95/46, the German Federal  Data Protection Act, the French Personal Privacy Act, the UK Data Protection Act and the Australian Privacy Ac t.
Compliance with these regulations is matched by and ensures compliance with regulations in other jurisdictions.
As  encouraged  by the US HIPAA and European regulations, personal health information is held on encrypted servers.
Consumer data is protected  by a privacy working group reporting to our global Privacy Officer and comprising our  global IT leadership and representatives from our healthcare informatics, EU market, security and compliance,  quality and regulatory, legal and HR teams.
Formal obligati ons are set by our employee and contractor contracts,  our code of business conduct and ethics  and our IT information security policy.
All employees likely to handle  commercial or consumer data undergo privacy training.
Our privacy notice is published online .
Anti-trust behavior   No government enforcement action has been taken against ResMed for any alleged violation of any antitrust or  competition regulation in the time period from 2013 -June 30, 2017.
In the United States, our largest geographic market, the primary  competitors for sale of products used to treat sleep  disordered breathing are: Philips BV, who acquired Respironics Inc., a previous competitor and Fisher & Paykel  Healt hcare Corporation Limited.
These firms are also our principal international competitors for the sale of flow  generators and masks.
The markets for our products are highly competitive.
Our sleep products compete with ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  30 of 42    surgical procedures, dental appliances,  and other means to treat sleep -disordered breathing and related respiratory  conditions.
ResMed also sells software as a service, ventilators and portable oxygen concentrators, all in smaller quantities  than our sales of sleep disordered breathing produ cts.
Those products also face competition from other  companies.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  31 of 42    ENVIRONMENT     Over 2015 -2017 , there has been a notice able increase in enquiries from customers on the source, content and  enviro nmental  perfor mance of our  products.
This is in addition  to the increasing  appearance of sustainability credentials   in requests for tenders, particularly from the hospital  sector.
Each  enquiry raises  internal consideration of our existing   manufacturing and supply chain processes,  and the extent to which we weigh environme ntal factors against  operati onal and financi al facto rs in our decisio n-making.
We insist  on and achieve strong compliance with environmental regulations,  with no material breaches,  and have  seen  impro vements  in  material  efficiency  and  recycling  in  both  production  and  administrative  areas.
We are  extending our adoption of ISO 14001 standards,  which reflect the need to conserve scarce resources and protect  our natural ecologies.
We have invested  in enviro nmental stewardship  at our sites, and are committed  to extend  that stewardship to our product design and packaging.
At this stage, we are comfortable that our quality management  system,  with our pursuit of lean manufacturing and  continuous improvement, is delivering environme ntal improvements in a way that is both effective and integrated  with our core business.
Policies and systems     Responsibility for environmental manage ment is at the site level.
We have a compr ehensive  environ mental  management system  with ISO 14001 certification at our primary manufacturing site in Sydney.
Other sites rely on  our quality managem ent system and pollution control and waste management  systems  to ensure compliance with  relevant environmental regulations.
Sydney manufacturing site     Our  enviro nmental  manage ment  system  at  our  Sydney  manufacturing  site  is closely  aligned  with  our  quality  assurance and health and safety systems , with the continual expectation of improved performance  in all three  dimensions.
Although we have internal  advisory roles on each dimension, line managers are accountable for  their  areas of operational responsi bility.
Our environ mental and commu nications teams work together to support the  behaviors  and culture needed to sustain continuous improvement  in environmental performance.
The environme ntal management system  at Sydney was established in acco rdance with ISO 14001 certification to   systematically improve our environmental -related costs , and to ensu re co mpliance with applicable local and  international environmental legisl ation affecting o ur operations.
That environmental policy and ISO 14001 certification   are publicly  available on re quest.
The environmental management system scope considers impacts on environment  throughout the lifecycle of our products and services.
Regulatory compliance is set by national, state  and local law, ISO 14001, occupational health and safety and other  regulations that relate  to our enviro nmental pra ctice and the conditions of consent to the development of our  premises.
Environmental risks  are identified  by analysing the product life cycle, and by anticipating the views of internal  and external parties who may be concerned or impacted  by our environmental performance.
Significa nt impacts and  risks require environmental manag ement  plans, and are  reviewed annually, with acco untabilities and measurable  targets.
Where there are operational controls  for these  risks, personnel must have measurable competency, with  relevant training.
Environmental perfo rmance is considered in the selection  process for suppli ers, with preference shown to suppliers  with good envir onmental  performance, such as recognizing  complia nce with ISO 14001 through  the supplier rating  program.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  32 of 42      Other sites   In our Sin gapore and Malaysia production facilities, the production processes replic ate those d eveloped in o ur Sydn ey  facility f or similar m anufactured products.
Our distri bution, commerci al and oth er production faciliti es do n ot currently  work to com prehensive environmental m anagement system, and h ave not to date pursued ISO14 001 accre ditation.
Instead they rely on our quality assurance  syste ms  and  w ork  with  our  w aste  management  providers  to  e nsure   compli ance  wi th  relevant environmental  a nd  supplier  reg ulations.
Review     Our senior management reviews our environmental performance annually, including audit and compliance results,  non-conformance  and corrective actions,  commu nications and compl aints, and available metrics  on environ mental  performance (see below).
At sites with an environmental  management system,  our environme ntal team conducts  a  rolling  internal audit  for complian ce with ISO 14001 and other  controlled  impacts on the environment, so that we  review  all eleme nts of the system  at least  once  every  two years.
The  environme ntal  performance  of  our  Sydney  manufactu ring,  research  and  administration  site  is  externally  audited every year by TÜV SÜD  to confirm  its ISO 14001 certification.
The last audit was completed  in March  2017,  and recorded positive findings for implementing an electronic device history record which has resulted in a reduction  in paper consumption.
TÜV SÜD  found no non-conformities with ISO 14001, nor precautionary actions  to be taken.
We do not use third-party ‘eco-labeli ng’ certification labels for our product s, nor produce, publish or verify  life-cycle  assessment data.
Compliance and incidents     We have receiv ed no regulatory notices on material environmental  issues in the three financial  years 2015 -2017.
We are not aware of regulatory notices  or complaints raised about environmental matte rs agai nst any of our  suppliers in respect of any of the products or services  provided to us.
Product ion efficiencies     Led by our primary manufa cturing sites,  our operational  culture focuses on efficiency and effectiveness, using six-  sigma and other lean manufacturing approaches as part of our quality and continuous improvem ent manag ement  systems (see  page 24) In Sydney, ten forms of waste are identified – defects,  overproduction, waiting, transport,  inventory, motion, under-utilized  talents, materials, energy and safety risks.
Awareness and action  on all these  dimensions have  paid dividends in mate rials, energy and water use.
We encourage all employees to suggest efficie ncy  ideas, an d we  systematically  pursue them, and  recognize proposing  staff with awards.
Global data on energy, water, materials and waste has not been comprehensively  recorded through 2015 -2017,   and we present trend data for th at period  only for the locations for which we have it.
While  our figures represent  our  best understandi ng of energy and mate rial flows for the most recent year, these figures may be revised as our  data captu re systems are improved  and standardized  internationally.
This year, for instance,  we include  new data  from the ResMed  facilities in Atlanta (US), Switzerland, and the main site of Curative Medical in China.ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  33 of 42          Energy use    We consumed 128,791 GJ in 2016 and 129,990 in 2017  of energy globally,  representing an energy  intensity  of 70.0  and 62.9 GJ per $million of reven ue for the entire  business in 2016 and 2017, respectively: See  Table  12.
This energy   is the  gas and electricity consumed at our premises  globally, and does not include energy used in our supply chain   and transportation (and their corresponding greenhouse  gas emissio ns).
Table 12: Global trend energy data       Electrici ty  Consumption  (MWh) Natu ral Gas  Consumption  (GJ) Total Energy  Consumption  (GJ) Energy  intensity  (GJ/$M Rev)  2017    Global 31,697  15,882  129,990  62.9  2016  30,482  19,055  128,791  70.0  2015  29,083 25,618 130,317  77.6      The global energy  intensity has decreased  modestly over the three-year period.
This reflects  the positive progress of  our energy conservation  measures.
At our primary manufacturing site in Sydney, the base-load energy consumption  (excluding production) is improving through equipment upgrade and changed controls of the heating, ventilation and air - conditioning system.
Recent energy efficient lamp retrofits, lighting  control enhancements and rescheduling at Sydney  and other sites also contributed to the improvement.
The over all natural  gas consumption has reduced from the year 2015 by 26% in 2016 and 38% in 2017.
This reduction  is mainly contributed by the decrease in gas usage at our primary site in Sydney.
We have made adjustments to the  dehumidification control - a process which comprises the majority of gas usa ge, increased the use of economy cycle,  and installed Variable Speed Drives (VSD) to enable the use of a more efficient plant control strategy.
These  improvements at Sydney site accounts for 60% of the global reduction over 2016 and 2017.
Sources and us e of energy     All sites draw on a mix of natural gas and grid electricity.
Our San Diego headqu arters feature a rooftop  solar PV  array designed to provide a maximum  of 6,811kWh a month of electricit y.
The uses of energy at our Sydney site are representative  of uses at our other  global sites.
Gas is consumed chiefly  by our heating, ventilating, and air conditioning system’s  boilers for space heating and for humidity control in  manufacturing areas,  as well as for domestic hot water and kitchen use.
Its use primarily reflects  variable climatic  conditions and building design  and use.
The primary electricity  uses in research, professional  and administrative  services are HVAC  chille rs, vertical transport, research  and development lab equipment (environmental  chambers,  ovens, lathes, mills),  lighting, catering and office  equipment.
These uses  respond more to behavioural change.
Manufacturing energy     Our significant  manufacturing operations are locat ed in Sydney, Singapore,  Malaysia and Chatsworth, California.
We  use an index of energy intensity that measures the energy used  for our production  output.
The index was set at 100  for 2010, and has now fallen by 26.7% to 73.3 in 2017.
See  Table 13.
Our energy efficiency has been improved  through changes to production equipment  or manufactu ring process.
This involves  adding  new lean process  equipment such as r obot demoulde rs and conveying s ystems.
Altho ugh new process equipment consumes greater  energy, it delivers higher productivity, and better energy intensity.
Rece nt improvements to the building plants also  contributed to enhance the baseload energy use and intensity of the manufacturing site.
ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  34 of 42      Table 13: Global prod uction energy use and intensity      2017 2016 2015  Production energy  (GJ) 63,542  58,445  57,827   Intensity  index  73.3 75.8 75.6    Non-manufa cturing  electricity  Energy data is separated between office and production uses at  our primary m anufacturing and  R&D site in Sydney.
Over the three years to 30 June 2017,  electricity consumed for office  and R&D purposes has decreased by 5%,  and although the number of employees in these areas increased , electricity use per person has fallen by 17%: See  Table 14.
The efficiency improvement reflects  the positive results  of lighting upgrades and control enhancement  implemented during 2016 and 2017.
Our other sites have also implemented a number of energy efficiency initiatives.
The new Atlanta site has installed  motion -sensors in the warehouse and energy efficient lamps arou nd the site perimeter.
The San Diego site has adjusted  lighting and air -conditioning schedules to better match conditions and needs.
They have also leveraged its solar  electricity with low voltage lighting controlled by daylight and motion -sensors, which a re also being used in Abingdon  and Chatsworth.
Table 14: Electricity use for research and admini strative purposes, Sydney campus     Office e-  MWh    ∆   People Office e-  MWh/pe rson   ∆  2017 4,714    -2.2% 768 6.14 -16.2%   2016  4,984    -0.3% 680 7.33 -0.9%   2015   4,958   -2.7%   670   7.40   16.2%  3 year  -5%   -17%    Greenhouse  gas emissions     Our global Source 1 (gas -fired energy) and Source II emissions total 21,118 tCO2e in 2016 and 22,290 tCO2e in 2017:  See Table 15 below.
Apart from its solar PV plant at San Diego, our sites draw on grid -connected electricity and natural  gas.
The increase in GHG emissions is contributed by our higher global electricity usage despite the total energy  consumption (electricity and gas) decline.
The emissions are well below the th resholds that trigger emissions reporting or liabilities in countries in which we  operates, including US, Australia, and Europe.
Accordingly, we do not currently calculate our non -gas Source I or our  Source III emissions.
Table 15: Global greenhouse gas emissions  (tonnes CO2e)      Total Energy Consumption  (GJ) Total GHG  emissi ons  (tCO2e)  2017     Global  129,990  22,290   2016 128,791  21,118   2015 130,317  20,986             ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  35 of 42      Water    We draw water from the local mains  supply, and measure that use at all sites except in Europe.
Global ex-Euro pe  water use was 64,088 kL in 2016 and 77,965 kL in 2017  or 31.7 and 34.1 kL per $million  in global reven ues for 2016  and 2017, respectively:  See Table 16.
Over the three years to 30 June 2017, w e reduced our global water  consumption by 9%.
The reduction is  due mainly by decreasing  water usage at our primary site in Sydney and the  US, which have fallen by 20% despite an increasing number of employees.
Our Sydney site captured all rainwater from roofs, hard surfaces and Bella Vista  Farm Park with feeds  to onsite   ponds.
Storm water pollution -control devices  and biofilte rs maintain the ponds’  water quality as habitat for native flora  and fauna, and for irrigation of native flora around  the campus.
Other initiatives to reduce general  water consum ption  are obse rved at many of our sites.
These include water tap aerato rs to reduce  flow intensity and low flow flush  toilets  and sensor faucets in restrooms.
The water used for manufacturi ng purposes is negligible.
Table 16: Global (ex-Europe) and Major sites  water consumption       Consumption (kL)  per empl oyee per $M rev  2017     Global (ex-Europe) 77,965  15.02  34.1  2016 64,088  17.37 * 31.7  2015  85,818  30.8 51.1    2017      Major sites only  (Aust  and US) 64,083  24.36    31.0  2016  51,937  21.73 * 28.2  2015    80,690   35.86   48.1  *Significant per employee change due to acquisition of new entity     Paper     Our global office paper use in 2017 t otalled 8.64 million she ets or 43 tonnes.
While the global number of employees  has increased, the  usage intensity per employee has decreased significantly by 67% from 2015.
There a re common  paper reduction i nitiatives at many sit es to prom ote the use of double-sided and ce ntralized p rinting, and by relying  more on electronic means for internal c ommuni cation.
The Sydney site ’s paper usage accounts for over 20% of the  global consumption,  and it  utilizes a swipe -release printing system to minimize unnecessa ry printing.
This system also   enables data m onitoring which reve als paper savings from unreleased jobs of over 130,000 sheets over the three years  to 30 June, 2017.
Table 17: Paper use, Global       Sheets  ('000)   Tonnes Sheets per  employee    ∆  2017     Global  8,640  43 1,298  -36%    2016 9,872  49  2,041  -31%  2015 12,877  64 2,967  -               ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  36 of 42      Waste   Our glo bal app roach to waste is integ rated with and infl uenced by our app roach to quali ty, safety,  and environmental  management: we c ontinually s eek to improve effi ciency and outcom es.
All sites segregate recyclable waste for  disposal.
For 2016 and 2017, we have measu red the total waste sent to landfill and recycled in all but our European  operations.
In our measured sites,  we have achieved a recycling rate of 76% and 77% in 2016 and 2017, respectively.
See Table  18.
Increasingly,  waste  manufactu ring  and  office  equipment  materials  are  being  diverted  from  landfill  as  their  compon ent elemen ts, including  rare earth metals, become more valuable.
Packaging and pallets  from our supply  chain are the main waste contributors .
Many sites, including Sydne y and Munich have implemented re -usable cartons  or pallets for our internal logistics.
We also worked with suppliers to reduce or return packaging for reuse, where feasible.
Our Paris manufacturing site has also implemented a process to reuse material wast e for a new production cycle.
In Sydn ey, more deliberate  action  on both administrative and production  waste was triggered by the formalization  of our environmental program with ISO14001 accreditation since  2010.
Recycling has been improved with suitable  bins and strong signage and other communicati on to influence behavior.
Any  existing or new waste mate rial is  identified  and considered for recycling  by the producti on teams and by our recycling partners who carry appropriate  licenses.
Ongoing efforts  to  enhance  product  design  can  further  reduce  waste  over  its  life cycle  from  production,  packaging  to its end of life.
The educati on on environmental impro vements is also embedded within our continuous improveme nt culture where  we enable a quick assessment to capture improvements made by employees and combine efforts for enviro nmental   targe ted impro vements.
Table 18: Waste from glob al operation s, ex-Europe        Landfill waste (T)   ∆   Recycling Waste  (T)   Recycling Rate  (%)  2017      Global ex-  Europe 556 +10.3%  1,761  76%  2016  504 -5.4%  1,647  77%    2015  533 -6.5% 1,616  75%  Includes Date from 2016 onward for the Curative acquisition      Table of Contents  ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  37 of 42              Envi ronmental stewardship      Land,  water and biodiversity impacts     Our operations do not have a large impact on the immediate envir onment.
All  but our Sydney premises have been   built or are leased  in existing  commercial lo cations.
The major  Sydney and San Diego  premis es feature drought- tolerant landscaping and plantings.
Sustainable design and  packaging     We understa nd the influence that product design has on the environmental impact of our product  manufacture, use  and disposal.
While we implement lean manufactu ring to  minimize  waste in both product manufacture  and packagi ng,  sustainable life-cycle  design is now becoming  more of a focus.
For example,  there are improvem ents to design a nd  packaging of  a new mask product that signifi cantly r educe the environ mental impacts  of the  product.
When   compared to its predecessor, the new produ ct consumes  less raw materia ls and packaging,  generates  less waste  matter in manu facturing,  has better  recyclability,  and increases  efficiency  in trans portation.
Based  on prior learnings,  we are now looking  to create better  consistency across  multiple  mask platforms to  take  the  entire  end-to-end  life   cycle  of  a  product  into  consi deration,  without  compr omising  the performance and integrity of the product    Hazardou s materials     The European Directive on the Restric tion of Haza rdous Substances (RoHS) in electrical  and electronic equipment has  applied to medical devices  since  2014.
The RoHS directive  restricts  lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, PBB and  PBDE  to 0.1% of product weight, and cadmium to 0.01% of product weight.
All ResMed electrical  devices placed   on the market after this date comply with the RoHS  Directive.
Supply chain     We set out our expec tations of sup plier environmental performance in the  ResMed  supplier  manual.
We reward suppliers  by our rating system if they operate to a certified  Environmen tal standard (e.g.,  ISO14 001).
Our regular quality audit   of supplier  facilities includes observations on environmental performace .
Our expectations  of suppliers  inclu de:     maintaining and disclosing as required up-to-date, trace able information for every individual  (homogeneous)  material     compliance with the Restriction  of Hazardous Substances  directive.
RoHS  status is confirmed  as part of the  approval process on all new components and changes to existing components.
supply pre-RoHS original or, where directed, alternative RoHS-compliant parts      compliance with Health Canada requi rements for disclosure of DEHP (found in flexible  PVC)  or BPA (found in  polyca rbonate), and     compliance with the European  20 06 Registration,  Evaluation,  Authorisation  and Restriction  of Chemicals  regulations for substances of very high concern .
– END  –      Table of Contents  ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  38 of 42            Appendix 1 – References to GRI core metrics      Section  Page  GRI Reference   Our Approach to ESG  6 101; 102   Key ESG Indicators  7 200s; 300s; 400s   ResMed In Brief  9 101; 102   Locations and Businesses  10 102  Administration, Product Development and  Distribution  10 102  Manufacturing Operations  10 102  Sales and Marketing  11 102; 202   Relevant Awards  11 102  Corporate Governance  13 102  Business Integrity  15 205  Ethics and corruption  16 205  Political Transparency  16 415  Intellectual Property  16 201  Our People  17 400s; 102   Diversity  17 405  Diversity and Disability  18 406  Health and Safety  19 403  Systems and Culture  19 403  Claim and Insurance Costs  20 403  Career Development and Learning  21 404  Employee Consultation and Communication  21 401; 402   Human Rights  21 400s   Compensation and Working Conditions  22 401  Work -life Balance  22 401  Health and Wellbeing  22 401; 403   Working Environment  22 401; 403  Table of Contents  ResMed 2016/17  Report on ESG  issues  Page  39 of 42    Employee Engagement  23 402  Employee Turnover  23 401; 402   Our Products  24 416  Quality, Innovation and Continuous  Improvement  24 416  Research and Development  24 416; 417; 201   Product Quality  24 416  Quality with Suppliers  25 416; 308   Supplier Networks  25 Voluntary   Warranties  25 Voluntary   Customer Satisfaction  25 418; 416   Product Safety  26 416  Marketing and Labeling  26 417  Animal Testing  26 Voluntary   Military Uses  26 Voluntary   Community  27 400s   Contributions to Health  27 416  Community Contributions  28 413  Industry and Advocacy Involvement  29 102  Privacy  29 418  Environment  31 300s   Policies and Systems  31 300s; 400s   Review  32 Voluntary   Compliance and Incidents  32 300s   Production Efficiencies  32 300s   Energy Use  33 302  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  34 302  Water  35 303  Paper  35 301  Waste  36 306  Environmental Stewardship  37 300s