 Sustainability:  
Thinking Big 
September 2019
sustainability.aboutamazon.comCommitted  
to a Sustainable 
Future
Amazon is making big changes to protect the planet.
2Goals
Sustainable Operations
Packaging and Products
Social Responsibility
Employees and Communities
Sustainability in the Cloud
Tech for Good
Governance
Amazon Around the Globe4
8
22
40
46
52
62
66
78Table of Contents
3Ambitious 
Goals, 
Immediate 
Action
Building a sustainable business for 
our customers and the planet.
4On September 19, 2019, Amazon and Global Optimism announced The 
Climate Pledge, a commitment to meet the Paris Agreement 10 years early. 
Amazon is the first signatory of this pledge. The Climate Pledge calls on 
signatories to be net zero carbon across their businesses by 2040—a decade 
ahead of the Paris Agreement’s goal of 2050.
Companies that sign The Climate Pledge agree to:
• Measure and report greenhouse gas emissions on a regular basis;
• Implement decarbonization strategies in line with the Paris 
Agreement through real business changes and innovations, including 
efficiency improvements, renewable energy, materials reductions, and 
other carbon emission elimination strategies;
• Neutralize any remaining emissions with additional, quantifiable, real, 
permanent, and socially-beneficial offsets to achieve net zero annual 
carbon emissions by 2040.
By joining The Climate Pledge and agreeing to decarbonize on a faster time 
horizon, signatories will play a critical role in stimulating investment in the 
development of low carbon products and services that will be required to 
help companies meet the pledge. 
5100% Renewable Energy 
by 2030
Investing in wind and solar to reach 100% renewable energy  
across all business operations by 2030.80% Renewable Energy 
by 2024
Investing in wind and solar to reach 80% renewable energy across all business 
operations by 2024. We expect to reach ~40% renewable energy by the end of 2019.Net Zero Carbon 
by 2040
Deploying our technology and people to reach net zero carbon  
across Amazon by 2040, one decade ahead of the Paris Agreement.
50% Shipments Net Zero Carbon
by 2030
Our vision to make all Amazon shipments net zero carbon, 
with 50% of all shipments net zero carbon by 2030.Paris Agreement 10 Years Early
6100,000 fully-electric delivery 
vehicles, the largest order ever for 
electric delivery vehicles
$100 million in reforestation 
projects around the world to 
begin removing carbon from 
the atmosphere now
7Sustainable 
Operations
We are taking a broad, science-based 
approach to measuring and reducing 
carbon emissions in our operations.
8E
9Learn more 
about the science 
and technology 
behind our carbon 
footprint  amzn.to/
measuring-carbon
Greenhouse gas 
emissions  
Verification 
Statement from 
Bureau Veritas
amzn.to/  
bureau-veritasOur Carbon Footprint
Amazon’s corporate carbon footprint quantifies the total greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions attributed to our direct and indirect operational activities. 
With this carbon footprint, we measured our total impact on the climate, 
mapped the largest activities contributing to this impact, and used this 
information to develop meaningful reduction goals, including our overall goal 
to reach net zero carbon across Amazon by 2040. We included emissions 
from Amazon-operated and third-party freight, electricity use, Amazon-
branded products, capital goods, business travel, packaging, customer trips 
to Amazon’s stores, and other purchased goods and services. This system 
boundary meets the widely adopted international standards (GHG Protocol 
and ISO 14064) and was externally assured by Bureau Veritas.
10Sustainable OperationsAmazon’s Enterprise-Wide Carbon Footprint   
for the 2018 Fiscal Year 
Category Million Metric Tons (mmt) CO₂e
Emissions from Direct Operations 4.98
Fossil fuels 4.70
Refrigerants 0.28
Electricity Emissions 4.71
Emissions from Indirect Sources 34.71
Corporate purchases and Amazon-branded product emissions (e.g., 
operating expenses, business travel, and Amazon-branded product 
manufacturing, use phase, and end-of-life)11.95
Capital goods 4.64
Other indirect emissions (e.g., third-party transportation, packaging, 
upstream energy related)13.89
Lifecycle emissions from customer trips to Amazon’s physical stores 4.23
Amazon’s Total Footprint 44.40
Amazon’s carbon intensity metric, measured as grams carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) 
per dollar of Gross Merchandise Sales (GMS), equals 128.9 g CO 2e per dollar (USD).
11Shipment Zero
In 2019, Amazon announced Shipment Zero, an initiative to 
make every Amazon shipment net zero carbon, with half of 
all shipments achieving net zero carbon by 2030. Shipment 
Zero means that the fulfillment operations we undertake 
to deliver a customer shipment are net zero carbon—from 
the fulfillment center where an item is picked off the shelf, 
to the materials used to package the item, and the vehicles 
that transport the package to the customer’s door. The 
first Shipment Zero deliveries will begin shipping 
to customers before the end of 2019 in 
both Europe and the U.S. before 
expanding to India, Japan, 
and other geographies 
in 2020 and beyond.
Fulfillment Centers
Every Shipment Zero delivery begins its journey at fulfillment and sort 
centers powered by 100% renewable energy. More than 50 Amazon 
facilities around the world are powered by solar roofs, which can 
generate as much as 80% of a single fulfillment facility’s annual energy 
needs. To reach 100% renewable energy, we invest in large-scale wind 
and solar projects that distribute energy onto the grid for our use. 
Sustainable Operations
12Packaging
A Shipment Zero order will be shipped in its own container 
or in carbon neutral packaging. We continue to raise the 
bar for sustainable packaging—from optimizing the size 
and weight of shipping materials, inventing new recyclable 
mailers, and working with suppliers to streamline and 
innovate product packaging.
Transportation
A Shipment Zero package will be transported in a zero-emissions 
delivery vehicle—for example, one of our 100,000 newly ordered electric 
delivery vehicles, an electric bike, or an electric rickshaw in India. We also 
leverage innovative technology to maximize efficiency on the road and 
reduce delivery times by placing delivery stations close to large Amazon 
customer populations.
13Sustainable Transportation
Transportation is a key component of our vision to make all Amazon 
shipments net zero carbon as part of Shipment Zero. We are committed to 
optimizing and transforming this critical part of our carbon footprint using 
several strategies.
Electrifying our Future Transport Fleets 
Amazon operates hundreds of electric vehicles across the globe and has 
invested $440 million in Rivian to accelerate the production of electric vehicles, 
which are critical to reducing emissions from transportation. As part of our 
commitment to The Climate Pledge, Amazon recently 
ordered 100,000 new electric delivery vehicles 
from Rivian, the largest order ever of 
electric delivery vehicles. Amazon plans 
to start using these new electric vehicles 
to deliver packages to customers by 
2021, with 10,000 new vehicles on 
the road as early as 2021 and all 
100,000 vehicles on the road by 
2030, saving 4 million metric tons 
of carbon per year by 2030.
Maximizing Efficiency on Current Vehicles  
While we are working hard to adopt the most efficient, cutting-edge vehicle 
technologies, we are also maximizing efficiencies on our existing fleets. In 
North America, our fleet includes a mix of trailers in different sizes that are 
equipped with skirts (panels attached to the lower side edges of a trailer to 
make it more aerodynamic) and automatic tire inflation systems that keep 
tires properly inflated and maximize fuel efficiency. We use mud flaps specially 
designed to allow airflow and water to pass through them, minimizing drag 
and saving an average of 100 gallons of diesel fuel per vehicle annually. 
In Europe, we have deployed double-deck trailers, which increase the load 
capacity per trailer, reducing the total number of trailers on the road.
Optimizing our Delivery Logistics 
Amazon is constantly working to optimize our delivery network and drive 
efficiencies in the process of delivering our products. To fulfill customer orders 
quickly, we have thousands of vehicles moving from fulfillment centers to 
delivery destinations. We use data and algorithms to consolidate as many 
14Sustainable Operationsshipments as possible onto one vehicle or plane. We also analyze which items 
are being ordered most frequently, by location, to ensure that the inventory 
of those items is stored nearby, minimizing the need to use planes or trucks 
for long-distance deliveries. By boosting efficiencies across our network, we 
can avert the need to put more vehicles and planes into service.
Using Alternative Delivery Methods 
We are continually piloting new or alternative ideas in different locations 
around the world in an effort to increase our efficiency and reduce emissions. 
In urban centers like New York City, we deliver packages on foot, have 
expanded our use of traditional bicycles, and use pedal-assist electric bikes 
connected to cargo trailers that can carry up to 45 packages. In India, 
our fleet includes electric three-wheelers, or rickshaws, and compressed 
natural gas (CNG) vehicles. Electric bikes and CNG vehicles are also part of 
our delivery fleet in Europe. Finally, we’re developing electric autonomous 
delivery services, such as the Amazon Scout device and Prime Air drones. 
Partnering with Experts and Industry 
In 2017, Amazon signed the Sustainable Fuel Buyers’ Principles, 
demonstrating our commitment to working with service providers to 
accelerate the transition to low-carbon commercial transportation solutions. 
Members of the nonprofit Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Future of 
Fuels group developed The Buyers’ Principles and vetted them through its 
network of 600 expert and industry stakeholders. These principles outline 
criteria that will catalyze the partnerships needed to drive the transition to a 
sustainable road freight transportation system. 
Buildings
Sustainable Fulfillment Centers
As one of the most important stops on a product’s journey to a customer’s 
door, Amazon’s fulfillment centers play a key role in achieving our Shipment 
Zero goal. We have invested significantly in on-site solar systems to power 
our facilities with renewable energy, making us the #1 ranked company in the 
U.S. for the amount of corporate on-site solar installed in 2018 in the Solar 
Energy Industries Association’s (SEIA) 2018 Solar Means Business Report. 
Many of our facilities throughout the U.S., Europe, and India are powered by 
on-site solar, where a rooftop installation can power nearly 80% of a facility’s 
Field testing a new 
delivery system with 
Amazon Scout
amzn.to/meet-scout
Amazon moves closer 
to its goal of a drone 
delivery solution that 
scales to meet the 
needs of customers
amzn.to/drone
15energy use, and we recently achieved our goal to install solar on 50 rooftops 
worldwide by 2020, more than a year ahead of schedule. 
In addition to a clean energy supply, Amazon’s fulfillment centers around 
the world are designed with efficient building systems to minimize energy 
use throughout our operations. We use building control system technology 
and real-time data analytics to optimize our heating and cooling systems for 
comfort while operating as efficiently as possible. 
Natural daylighting, LED lighting, and lighting controls reduce energy 
use, and many areas in our fulfillment centers use advanced automation 
and robotics, which require minimal or no lighting to operate. We use 
highly-efficient motors and advanced controls in our conveyor systems to 
move packages efficiently throughout our facilities, and we are testing a 
number of new technologies to further reduce the energy use of material 
handling equipment. Through building retrofits and energy studies, we 
are continuously improving and learning to optimize the efficiency of our 
operations and uncover savings opportunities.
Through Amazon’s Sustainability Ambassadors program, associates are 
also an important driving force who make fulfillment center operations 
more efficient. Ambassadors build a culture of sustainability by driving 
improvements in waste reduction, recycling, and efficiency within their own 
work environment.
Sustainable Offices 
At Amazon, we embed sustainability principles and initiatives throughout our 
corporate offices, from green building design to low-carbon transit incentives 
for employees. Our sustainable campuses offer a healthy environment in 
which our employees work, collaborate, and innovate.
Seattle Campus
Our corporate offices in Seattle are designed for energy efficiency and 
responsible use of resources. The buildings’ interiors feature salvaged and Amazon is the #1 ranked company in the U.S. for the 
amount of corporate on-site solar installed in 2018 in 
the Solar Energy Industries Association’s (SEIA) 2018 
Solar Means Business Report.
16
Sustainable Operationslocally-sourced woods, energy-efficient lighting, and composting and 
recycling alternatives, as well as public plazas and pockets of open green 
space outside of the buildings. At the heart of the Seattle campus is The 
Spheres, an indoor plant conservatory housing 40,000 plants from the cloud 
forest regions of more than 30 countries, that provides a natural source of 
insulation and cooling.
The U.S. Green Building Council has awarded 26 of our Seattle buildings with 
LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification as of June 
2019, including 18 that are LEED Gold and four that have achieved 
LEED Platinum, the two highest tiers of certification for 
sustainable design and construction methods. 
Some of our buildings in the Denny Triangle area of 
Seattle are heated through a district energy system that 
recycles heat generated at a neighboring data 
center. Green roofs on our Doppler building 
and adjacent Meeting Center reduce 
building heating and cooling loads, 
clean and reduce storm water runoff 
by at least 70%, moderate the 
urban heat island effect, and 
improve local air quality. 
Amazon also encourages 
sustainable transport for employee 
commutes. In Seattle, more 
than half of employees walk, 
bike, or take public transport to 
work. In 2017 alone, we provided 
$63 million toward employees’ public 
transit fares. In many Amazon buildings across 
Seattle, we offer plug-in electric vehicle charging stations to our employees, 
with additional charging infrastructure offered to our employees in multiple 
other locations as well.
HQ2 and Offices Worldwide
Our new offices and fulfillment centers are equipped with energy-efficient 
technologies such as LED lighting, advanced building management systems, 
motor variable frequency drives, high-efficiency heating and cooling systems, 
and remote energy and power monitoring.
17The new HQ2 campus in Arlington, Virginia, will incorporate LEED Gold certified 
buildings, walkable access to basic amenities such as shops, restaurants, and 
daycare, and access to public transportation and bike storage.  We are also 
working to secure renewable energy for the campus to achieve net zero 
carbon as defined by the International Living Future Institute, which means 
the buildings will operate on 100% renewable energy and offset the carbon 
emissions embedded in their construction and building materials.
We also focus on sustainable design in our international locations. Our 
corporate offices in Munich, Germany, have been certified Gold for 
environmental design by the German Sustainable Building Council based 
on their energy-efficient interiors and use of sustainable building materials. 
In Luxembourg, efficient chillers and an advanced building management 
system cut energy costs, while rooftop bee hives supply honey, and food is 
served in compostable and biodegradable containers. We aim to take best 
practices from across our global locations and embed them at our offices all 
over the world.
Renewable Energy
Amazon is committed to using 100% renewable energy across our global 
infrastructure. We are ranked #1 in the U.S. by the Solar Energy Industries 
Association (SEIA) for corporate on-site solar installed in 2018. These 
installations offset the carbon dioxide equivalent of more than 200 million 
miles of truck deliveries.
Scaling up the use of renewable energy is a critical part of Amazon’s goal to 
reach net zero carbon by 2040. Clean energy sources, such as wind and solar, 
reduce our reliance on fossil fuels to power our services to customers.
In 2019, we surpassed a goal we set in 2017 to install 50 solar rooftop systems 
on our fulfillment network buildings by 2020, 18 months early. Globally, Amazon The new HQ2 campus in Arlington, Va. will incorporate 
LEED Gold certified buildings, walkable access to basic 
amenities such as shops, restaurants, and daycare, and 
access to public transportation and bike storage.Sustainable Operations
18has 32 rooftop systems in the U.S.,12 in Europe, and seven in India, totaling more 
than 98 megawatts (MW) of installed capacity as of July 2019. A rooftop solar 
system can generate as much as 80% of a single fulfillment facility’s annual 
energy needs, depending on the specific project, time of year, 
and other factors. These solar projects supply energy to our 
operations network, helping us achieve our Shipment Zero 
goal to make all Amazon shipments net zero carbon, 
with 50% of all shipments net zero by 2030.
Our largest wind project to date, Amazon 
Wind Farm Texas, is a 253 MW wind farm 
in Scurry County in the western part of the 
state. With more than 100 turbines, the 
project generates 1 million megawatt hours 
(MWh) of wind energy annually—enough to power 
almost 90,000 U.S. homes for a year. 
Our newest renewable energy project in the U.S. will be located in Pittsylvania 
County, Virginia, and will be the seventh Amazon Solar Farm in the 
Commonwealth of Virginia. Once complete, the new Amazon Solar Farm will 
provide 45 MW of renewable capacity and is expected to generate 100,000 
MWh of clean energy annually. Our newest renewable energy project in 
Europe will be located in Cork, Ireland, and will be the second Amazon Wind 
Farm in the Republic of Ireland. Once complete, the new Amazon Wind Farm 
will provide 23.2 MW of renewable capacity, with expected generation of 
68,000 MWh of clean energy annually.
As of August 2019, Amazon has 66 renewable energy projects, including 51 
solar rooftops, which have the capacity to generate 1,342 MW and deliver 
more than 3.9 million MWh of energy annually.
How Clean Energy and Recycled Water Are 
Powering Operations in India
At Amazon fulfillment centers in India, enhancements including solar arrays, 
advanced building energy management systems, and water conservation 
methods are advancing operations efficiency. These upgrades are an 
important part of Amazon’s goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions around 
the globe by saving energy and water. 
19Solar Power
Amazon’s operations team in India began installing solar arrays on its 
buildings in 2017 and have quickly scaled up since then. Eight facilities have 
a total of more than 8 MW of solar capacity installed. Spanning facilities in 
Delhi, Hyderabad, Bangalore, and Mumbai, these solar arrays support the 
annual energy needs related to fulfilling orders, reducing dependence on 
conventional sources of energy.
Energy Efficiency
Amazon’s sortation center in Delhi, where associates sort customer orders 
by final destination and consolidate them onto trucks for faster delivery, was 
awarded a Gold rating by the Indian Green Building Council for its exemplary 
performance on energy and resource efficiency. Constructed with locally 
sourced materials and outfitted with high-efficiency plumbing and electrical 
equipment, the facility uses about 
30% less energy and water than a 
typical building of its size. 
Across facilities, an advanced energy 
management system provides 
building operators with a dashboard 
that enables them to optimize energy use and identify opportunities for 
further savings. Sensors make sure lighting and climate controls are only 
used when buildings are occupied.
Saving Water
Many of our fulfillment centers have the ability to collect and recycle water. 
We do this with rainwater collection tanks or recharge wells, which send water 
back into aquifers, and in-house sewage treatment plants, making it possible 
to reuse water for flushing and gardening. 
Cleaner Vehicles
Amazon India has successfully launched electric and commercial compressed 
natural gas (CNG) vehicles for deliveries. CNG vehicles, which can reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions compared with conventional fuels, are becoming 
increasingly common in India and are supported by an expanding network of 
fuel stations. Last year, close to 200 new CNG vehicles were rolled out across 
North India. These vehicles can reduce our carbon footprint by around 91 
metric tons a month. Our electric fleet consists of nearly 150 vehicles.
20Sustainable OperationsPackaging-Free Shipping
In June 2019, Amazon India announced the expansion of packaging-free 
shipping to nine cities in India. Customer orders within this program are 
shipped in their original packaging without secondary or additional packaging. 
The program is available depending on the location of the customer, the 
distance the order has to travel, and the category of product ordered. The 
program is now set to expand to cover more regions, with a wider selection of 
products and a larger customer base.
Engaging with Communities
Amazon is expanding clean energy in India beyond its fulfillment centers, 
donating solar energy systems to 19 government schools and one mini 
planetarium in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. This infrastructure supports the 
needs of children in schools and other members of the local communities 
in 24 villages, benefitting more than 2,500 people across the Haryana and 
Maharashtra provinces. In addition, we have supported lake cleanup by 
partnering locally to construct a sewage treatment plant in Bangalore. We are 
also planting more than 10,000 saplings around our fulfillment centers. 
Partnerships
Many of the cross-cutting sustainability issues that we prioritize at Amazon 
are enhanced through partnerships and collaborative initiatives with credible, 
knowledgeable, and innovative industry partners. 
• Advanced Energy Buyers Group 
• Advanced Energy Economy
• American Council on Renewable Energy
• Center for Climate and Energy Solutions 
• RE-Source Platform 
• SolarPower Europe
• U.S. Partnership for Renewable Energy Finance See all our partners   
amzn.to/
sustainability-
partnerships
21Redesigning packaging to reduce 
waste and making our private-label 
products in responsible ways.Packaging 
and Products
2223How We Reduce Packaging Waste
Our customers want right-sized, recyclable packaging that minimizes 
waste and ensures damage-free delivery. We work to reinvent and simplify 
our sustainable packaging options using a science-based approach that 
includes lab testing, machine learning, materials science, and manufacturing 
partnerships to scale sustainable change across the packaging supply chain.
Sustainable Packaging Initiatives
Our sustainable packaging initiatives reduce waste and make it easier for 
customers to take products out of their packages. Since 2008, initiatives 
including Frustration-Free Packaging (FFP) have eliminated more than 
665,000 tons of packaging materials—more than 1.18 billion shipping 
boxes—by promoting easy-to-open, recyclable packaging and shipping 
products in their own packages without additional shipping boxes.
To certify products under FFP, we work with manufacturers worldwide, 
helping them innovate and improve their packaging functionality. By testing 
products in a dedicated, state-of-the-art lab in Seattle and in our fulfillment 
centers across the globe, we identify specific steps that manufacturers 
can take to improve their packaging and ensure customers’ products are 
protected all the way to their final destination. 
We started small with just 19 products enclosed in hard plastic cases known 
as “clamshells” and secured with plastic-coated wire ties, which are commonly 
used in consumer goods packaging. Today, more than 1.3 million products 
qualify under FFP, including the Philips Norelco OneBlade razor, which now 
takes up 80% less packaging volume than its original design.  
Using Machine Learning to Optimize Packages
How big of a box is needed for a given product? Is an Amazon box needed 
at all? To better understand the answers to those questions, we use machine 
learning algorithms to arrive at the best possible packaging choices for Since 2008, initiatives including Frustration-Free Packaging 
have eliminated more than 665,000 tons of packaging 
materials—more than 1.18 billion shipping boxes.
24
Packaging and Productsdeliveries. That means identifying which products are suitable for envelopes 
and moving from a box to a mailer for smaller items. Mailers use less material 
than their box equivalent, weigh less, and are more efficient to ship, reducing 
carbon in small amounts to create larger impact across our network.  
In cases where the protection of a box is needed, algorithms help us 
continuously optimize box choices to fit our ever-changing catalog. 
Computer-aided engineering is also helping us redesign boxes to use less 
material while making sure customer orders are protected. 
These improvements help reduce volume per shipment, which means less 
unnecessary packaging and more efficient use of all forms of transportation.
Recyclable Mailers
In 2018, we launched a fully recyclable paper padded mailer made of four 
layers of paper and a water-based cushioning material that protects products 
during shipping, ensuring customer deliveries arrive undamaged and in 
sustainable packaging. The cushioning material—created with components 
commonly found in the glue used to make cardboard—was specifically 
designed to easily separate from the paper in the same way that print inks 
and other paper coatings are removed during the paper recycling process. 
Engaging with Vendors and Industry
We work with top brands to reinvent their packaging for waste reduction in 
e-commerce, and vendors have worked to improve product packaging so 
products can be shipped in their own container. The toy maker Hasbro, for 
example, redesigned the packaging for its popular toy, Baby Alive, reducing 
both the amount of material used and the overall package size by more than 
half. The pet food company Hill’s Pet Nutrition reworked its packaging to 
make bags of kibble less likely to break and spill during shipment; testing at 
Amazon validated the redesigned packaging. 
We are working across the packaging industry, using new analytics and 
test methods, new materials, and new ways to build enclosures that 
protect customer products. With packaging suppliers, for example, we have 
developed solutions for liquid dispensing systems on hard-to-ship items, such 
as household cleaners and personal care products, preventing spills and the 
need for extra packaging to contain spills if they happen.
Amazon is a member of the Sustainable Packaging Coalition (SPC), an 
industry working group dedicated to a more robust environmental vision 
Judge a toy by 
its box   
amzn.to/toy-box
25for packaging. SPC uses strong member support, an informed and science-
based approach, supply chain collaborations, and continuous outreach 
to design packaging that encourages a sustainable flow of materials. 
Amazon has also joined the International Safe Transit Association (ISTA), 
an organization focused on the specific concerns of transport packaging. 
ISTA is a nonprofit, member-driven association that sets the standards for 
optimizing the resources in packages that are designed to be survivable, 
sustainable, and successful.
Innovating to Reduce Spills in Transit
In an effort to reduce waste at every step of our supply chain, we are constantly 
exploring ways to minimize damage to products during the transportation and 
delivery process. When products spill or break during transit, it not only creates 
product and packaging waste, but requires additional shipping and processing 
efforts, all of which contribute to our carbon footprint. We are working directly 
with manufacturers and suppliers to make packaging more durable for the 
journey between a manufacturer’s facility and a customer’s home without the 
need for excessive protective 
packaging that ends up in the 
waste stream. 
To help target products 
where even small packaging 
improvements can have 
significant impacts on reducing 
waste, we developed a machine learning model to identify liquid products 
with the highest average rates of customer reported damages. We then 
subjected 14 of the most commonly damaged liquid products to extensive 
additional testing at our Amazon Packaging Lab, where we simulate a 
package’s journey from the manufacturer to the customer.
Through this process, we teamed up with Rieke—a packaging solutions 
firm that makes dispensing systems for personal care, food, and healthcare 
products—to provide data and packaging insights on many of the 
conventional dispensing systems that are used in millions of products you see 
on Amazon. By strengthening materials, creating new locking mechanisms to 
prevent pumps from twisting open, and sealing potential leak points, Rieke’s 
team has created dispensers specially designed to withstand the journey 
26
Packaging and Productsto the customer. These new and improved designs include trigger sprayers 
common on household cleaners and personal care products, pumps for 
lotions, and pumps for foams. 
Rieke’s new trigger sprayer design, for example, reduces the number of 
packaging components from five to one and cuts package volume by nearly 
50%, earning Amazon’s Frustration-Free Packaging certification. Product 
manufacturers like Unilever are adopting these dispensers, and you can find 
the redesigned lotion pumps on body washes from Caress and Dove. Rieke is 
also developing entirely new forms of packaging for liquid products sold on 
Amazon, such as sprayer and foaming caps that are activated by squeezing 
instead of hand triggers or pumps. 
Some of these changes might seem simple, and most will go unnoticed by 
customers. But whether the adjustments are straightforward tweaks or complex 
feats of engineering, they all represent significant changes to how products are 
shipped, delighting customers and reducing packaging waste. These innovations 
are just one part of Amazon’s efforts to reduce waste in packaging and achieve 
net zero carbon shipments through our Shipment Zero goal.
Sustainable Products from Amazon
Amazon strives to be Earth’s most customer-centric company, which means 
giving our customers access to the sustainable products they want. We 
regularly seek ways to reduce our environmental impact and provide more 
information about the products we sell.
When we call a product sustainable, that means it has a lower impact on the 
environment, reduces waste, promotes consumer health, protects animal 
welfare, or has social benefits over conventional versions of the same 
products. We work with many of the manufacturers that produce our private-
label selection to grow these types of product offerings. We focus on every 
step of the process: the ingredients and materials, how the people behind the 
products are treated, the packaging, and the experience for customers. Rieke’s new trigger sprayer design, for example, reduces 
the number of packaging components from five to one 
and cuts package volume by nearly 50%.
27Household Goods
Many Amazon customers prioritize safety and sustainability when it comes 
to household goods like cleaning supplies and personal care products. 
Customers want to be sure the products they buy are safe for their families 
and the planet, without compromising on quality or price.
Thousands of sustainable options, from established brands to growing 
startups, are available in Amazon’s stores and we take an active role in 
promoting sustainability with these selling partners. For example, we teamed 
up with Procter & Gamble to develop the Tide Eco-Box, a concentrated 
version of Tide’s traditional laundry detergent compressed into a fully 
recyclable, shipping-safe package, which is produced using 60% less plastic 
and 30% less water than a conventional plastic jug. Countless other Amazon 
selling partners offer biodegradable 
and plant-based options for staples 
like dish detergent and multi-
purpose cleaners. 
Amazon aims to develop eco-
friendly products that are good for 
customers and the planet. From 
biobased laundry and dish soaps that 
offer an effective, alternative choice 
to conventional formulas, to beauty products that are formulated without 
harmful chemicals, Amazon is working to bring sustainability into many 
of our private-label selections. As part of that commitment, Amazon has 
implemented a Chemicals Policy and Restricted Substance List (RSL), both of 
which apply to Amazon-owned baby, household cleaning, personal care, and 
beauty brands. 
And to support the broader retail sector’s collaborative effort to 
encourage national brands to use safer formulations and produce more 
sustainable products, Amazon joined the Retail Leadership Council of the 
We focus on every step of the process: the ingredients and 
materials, how the people behind the products are treated, 
the packaging, and the experience for customers.
28
Packaging and ProductsGreen Chemistry and Commerce Council (GC3), and also participates in 
the Beauty and Personal Care Products Sustainability Project through The 
Sustainability Consortium.
Food and Grocery
Sustainable food selection means something different to each customer. 
Across our Amazon food and grocery businesses, we make it easy for 
customers to find a range of sustainable food options like free range, pasture-
fed, organic, and fair trade groceries.
We are committed to upholding animal welfare across every step of our 
supply chain to ensure the animal products we sell are derived from animals 
that receive industry leading levels of care and treatment. Our Animal Welfare 
Policy provides guidance for producers and suppliers of animal-derived goods 
and services during production, transport, and slaughter. We are working with 
our private-label manufacturers to source palm oil that is sustainably certified, 
starting with private-label food products in North America and Europe.
At Whole Foods Market, we sell only the highest quality natural and organic 
foods. We research ingredients and audit sourcing practices to make shopping 
easier for customers. In our meat department, products are free of added 
hormones or antibiotics, and no cages or tethers are permitted during the 
animal’s daily life. Our seafood department sources only from responsibly 
managed fish farms and fisheries. Produce and other items with our Whole 
Trade Guarantee ensure a product meets criteria that support both workers 
and the environment.
Devices
Amazon devices make every day easier by helping customers watch, read, 
listen, and control their smart homes. Our most popular devices include 
Echo and Alexa devices, Fire Tablets, Fire TVs, Kindle e-readers, and 
home security products (Ring, Blink, etc.). We take a scientific approach Across our Amazon food and grocery businesses, we 
make it easy for customers to find a range of sustainable 
food options.
29to understanding the environmental impact of these devices, completing 
detailed life-cycle assessments (LCAs) for many of them. LCA is an 
internationally-accepted methodology for assessing the environmental, 
human health, and natural resource impacts of products and services. 
An LCA takes inflows from nature—raw materials, water, energy—and 
converts them into the process outputs and environmental impacts—releases 
to air, land, and water—for all processes that represent over 5% of total 
impact, energy use, or product mass. We use LCA to identify science-based 
environmental impacts across raw materials extraction, manufacturing, 
transportation, product use, and product end-of-life. These results help us 
improve device energy efficiency, research and prototype new materials, and 
explore additional opportunities to improve the circularity of Amazon devices 
through programs like Amazon Trade-In and Amazon Device Recycling. 
Textiles
Amazon brands offer home goods and apparel, including men’s and 
women’s fashion, bedding, and baby accessories. We aim to use high-quality, 
sustainable cotton for many categories, and have joined the Better Cotton 
Initiative (BCI). The BCI aims to transform cotton production worldwide by 
developing Better Cotton as a sustainable mainstream commodity. 
Additionally, in 2019 we signed the Responsible Sourcing Network’s public 
Cotton Pledge, committing not to source cotton from Turkmenistan and 
Uzbekistan until the use of government-mandated forced labor is stopped. 
We are continuing to refine and strengthen our commitments to responsible 
sourcing. In the future, we will expand our Restricted Substance List to include 
additional brands, product categories, and geographies. We will work to 
further develop sustainable products that customers can trust are safe for 
their families and for the planet. Amazon devices make every day easier by helping customers 
watch, read, listen, and control their smart homes. 
30
Packaging and ProductsCircular Economy
We are minimizing waste, increasing recycling, and providing options for our 
customers to participate in the circular economy.
Closing the Loop on Waste
At Amazon, we’re constantly working to eliminate waste across our retail 
operations, for our business and for our customers. Reducing packaging 
is just one part of this effort—we are pursuing a vision of a world where 
customers get to enjoy products for the full length of their useful lives, 
and then recycle those items so the materials can be transformed into 
new products—a “circular economy” that encourages reuse, repairs, and 
recycling. From donations to recycling programs, we are building strategies 
aimed at sending less material to the landfill and more material back into 
the circular economy loop. 
Recycling
Amazon is taking responsibility for some of the toughest to recycle materials 
in our operations to reduce our environmental footprint, and we are helping 
to support the domestic recycling industry in the process. 
In 2019, we piloted plastic film recycling at four fulfillment centers. Rather 
than focus on just the highest-value film—clear stretch wrap from pallets—
we helped to develop technology 
to mechanically sort different 
grades of flexible plastic film. 
Based on the success of this pilot, 
we’re dramatically expanding this 
program in 2020, starting with 
more than 50 fulfillment centers 
across our network and in every region of the country, with more on the way. 
Through this program, we expect to be recycling over 7,000 tons of plastic film 
a year, in addition to the 1,500 tons of plastic waste already being recycled 
annually in Europe.
This is just one way Amazon is closing the loop on plastics and other waste 
materials. In the United Kingdom, for example, we are collecting the silicone 
backing paper from shipping labels and are on track to divert 250 tons of this 
31paper and convert it into animal bedding in 2019. We’re looking across our 
entire operations to incorporate more of our own recycled plastic in products, 
packaging, and operations. 
Partnerships
Amazon has also invested $10 million in the Closed Loop Fund, a project-
finance fund large retail and consumer goods companies created to invest 
in building infrastructure that will increase product and packaging recycling, 
ensuring that material gets back into the manufacturing supply chain. 
Over the next decade, Amazon’s investment in the Closed Loop Fund 
will increase the availability of curbside recycling for 3 million homes in 
communities across the United States, diverting 1 million tons of recyclable 
material from landfill and eliminating the equivalent of 2 million metric tons 
of carbon dioxide.
Amazon has also joined The Recycling Partnership to improve curbside 
recycling in the United States. The Recycling Partnership supports 
communities and local governments with education, infrastructure, and 
measurement related to curbside recycling.
Amazon Second Chance
Amazon Second Chance provides information on how to trade in, recycle, or 
repair Amazon devices and products, how to recycle Amazon packaging, and 
how to find open-box and refurbished devices. Customers may visit Second 
Chance to learn about and compare programs that help eliminate waste and 
give products a second life. 
Customers who have eligible items they no longer want may discover 
the Amazon Trade-In program, which allows customers to receive an 
Amazon.com Gift Card in exchange for thousands of eligible items. 
Electronics, books, video games, and more are eligible for trade-in. In 
addition, customers wanting to responsibly dispose of their electronics 
may discover our device recycling program for a variety of electronics 
and related accessories.Amazon’s investment in the Closed Loop Fund will increase 
the availability of curbside recycling for 3 million homes in 
communities across the United States. 
32
Packaging and ProductsAmazon also gives customers several options to shop for great deals on 
open-box or gently-used items. Amazon Warehouse—an online store for 
great deals on quality used products including furniture, toys, instruments, 
kitchen appliances, clothes, and more—has an extensive inspection process 
that ensures as many gently-used returned items as possible can be 
resold rather than being sent 
to landfill. Amazon Renewed 
offers refurbished, pre-owned, 
and open-box products such as 
computers, laptops, smartphones, 
tablets, cameras, audio devices, 
home appliances, and more. And 
Certified Refurbished and Used 
Amazon Devices provides customers access to pre-owned Amazon devices 
such as Echo, Fire Tablets, Kindle E-readers, and more. Certified Refurbished 
devices have been refurbished, tested, and internally certified by Amazon to 
look and work like new. All of these programs reduce waste and encourage 
re-use by ensuring that valuable products can go back into the hands of 
customers rather than being sent to landfills.
Amazon also encourages customers to fix the things they buy before 
replacing, returning, or disposing of them. Amazon offers free Product 
Support (on a select but growing number of items) with the goal of helping 
customers maximize the useful life of the things they already own. Product 
Support serves seven global geographies with technical support, parts 
replacement, and repair services.
Helping customers responsibly dispose of Amazon packaging is another key 
component of Second Chance. Customers are able to view various types of 
Amazon packaging and are provided with instructions on how and where to 
dispose of the materials. 
Certified Refurbished and Used Amazon Devices provides 
customers access to pre-owned Amazon devices such as 
Echo, Fire Tablets, Kindle E-readers, and more. 
33Donations
Amazon’s fulfillment network and delivery services allow our customers to fit 
all types of shopping into their routines and improve their busy lives.
We are continuously working on initiatives to minimize the amount of food and 
non-food products that go to landfills. For the past few years our fulfillment 
centers have been helping our local communities by donating food and non-
food products to hundreds of foodbanks and nonprofits. Amazon has launched 
initiatives with Feeding America and Good360 to donate these goods and 
ensure these products get directed to communities in need.
In 2018, Amazon and Whole Foods Market donated 23 million meals to 
Feeding America through its donation program in addition to useful apparel 
and supplies to Good360 and other nonprofits. Amazon is dedicated to 
engaging with its local community and donations is one of the ways we 
achieve this.
Throughout countries in Europe, we collaborate with local food banks to 
donate products to communities in need. Amazon partners with the German 
nonprofit Innatura, which brokers product donations in kind to charitable 
organizations and which we have 
supported as a founding partner 
since 2013. In this way, more than 
1,000 charities have received 
Amazon donations and around 
450,000 needy people have 
benefited from them. Donations 
include toys, shoes, clothing, or drugstore items among others. We also work 
with In Kind Direct, a United Kingdom national charity that manages the 
donation of surplus products to charities across the country. Through our 
work with In Kind Direct, we have donated over 170,000 products worth over 
£4.5 million ($5.5 million), and in 2017 alone we donated 47,000 products 
worth £1.5 million ($1.8 million) to over 1,800 charities and voluntary 
organizations across the United Kingdom. And in 2019, we launched 
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) Donations, a program where eligible excess and 
returned products from sellers using FBA will be made available to charitable 
organizations in the U.S. and UK. 
34Packaging and ProductsOur Materials and Commitments
Amazon Chemicals Policy 
We are committed to developing high-quality and affordable Private Brands 
products that customers love. Part of our commitment to quality is avoiding 
chemicals of concern in our products that can affect human health and/or 
the environment. We define chemicals of concern as those chemicals that: 
1) meet the criteria for classification as a carcinogen, mutagen, reproductive, 
or other systemic toxicant; or 2) are persistent, bioaccumulative, 
and toxic. We strategically prioritize which chemicals of concern 
to focus on based on product type, customer concerns, and the 
availability of safer alternatives.
The baseline list of chemicals of concern included on our first 
Restricted Substance List (RSL) identifies the chemicals that we 
seek to avoid in Amazon-owned Private Brands Baby, Household 
Cleaning, Personal Care, and Beauty products in the U.S. and Europe. This policy 
is in addition to applicable local legal requirements and associated compliance 
plans. It will be expanded to additional brands, product categories, and 
geographies over time.
Cotton 
Amazon is a member of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI). The Better 
Cotton Initiative aims to transform cotton production worldwide by 
developing Better Cotton as a sustainable mainstream commodity. 
Additionally, in 2019 we signed the Responsible Sourcing Network’s 
public Cotton Pledge to not source cotton from Turkmenistan and 
Uzbekistan until the pervasive use of government-mandated forced 
labor is stopped. We prohibit forced labor within our supply chains, and we 
have developed internal controls and external engagements to address forced 
labor within global supply chains. This pledge represents an additional step in 
that direction and lends Amazon’s voice in demanding an end to forced labor 
in these two countries.
Read our 
Chemicals Policy   
amzn.to/materials
35Palm Oil
Palm oil is used extensively as an ingredient in consumer products, however, 
its cultivation has contributed to deforestation, biodiversity loss, and negative 
social impacts in some of the regions where it is grown. Our 
approach is to promote the use of sustainably-certified palm oil 
in our Private Brands food products. We ask our Private Brands 
suppliers to source palm oil that is sustainably certified. We are 
starting with Amazon-owned Private Brands food products in 
North America and across Europe, where our goal is to source 
100% sustainable palm oil by the end of 2020.
Animal Welfare
We recognize that, as sellers of animal-derived products, we have a 
responsibility to uphold animal welfare within our supply chain. We will 
continue to make it easy for customers to buy free range, pasture-fed, 
organic, or other higher welfare products, and to offer these products at 
the best possible prices. We will also continue to offer easily-identifiable 
vegetarian and vegan products. This animal welfare policy provides guidance 
for producers and suppliers of animal-derived goods and services during 
production, transport, and slaughter. At Amazon, we recognize and expect our 
suppliers to uphold the Five Freedoms framework. These freedoms are:
• Freedom from hunger and thirst – by providing ready access to fresh water 
and a diet to maintain full health and vigor.
• Freedom from discomfort – by providing an appropriate 
environment including shelter and a comfortable resting area.
• Freedom from pain, injury, or disease – by ensuring prevention 
or rapid diagnosis and treatment.
• Freedom to express normal behavior – by providing sufficient 
space, proper facilities, and company of the animal’s own kind.
• Freedom from fear and distress – by ensuring conditions and 
treatment which avoid mental suffering.
We expect our suppliers to comply with all applicable laws.
We expect our suppliers to take a zero-tolerance approach to animal cruelty, 
abuse, and neglect.
We encourage suppliers to continuously improve their animal welfare 
standards and practices, and to work towards recognized animal welfare 
certifications or industry guidelines that include welfare provisions.
36
Packaging and ProductsHow We Enable Sustainability for Customers
Amazon has set ambitious 
goals to make our business 
more sustainable on behalf 
of customers. Part of our 
commitment to both 
sustainability and customers 
includes making it easier for 
everyone to participate in making a positive impact on the planet and society. 
If you want to join us in supporting local communities and reducing your 
environmental footprint, here are a few easy ways to get started.
Reducing, Reusing, and Recycling
• Visit the Amazon Trade-In store to learn how to receive an Amazon 
Gift Card in exchange for thousands of eligible items including Amazon 
Devices, books, video games, and more.
• Visit Amazon Device Recycling to find out how to cut back on clutter and 
recycle your electronic items, ensuring they are disposed of properly.
• Find open-box, pre-owned and refurbished products at a great price 
with Amazon Renewed, discounted deals on quality used products from 
Amazon Warehouse, and certified refurbished Amazon Devices.
• Find out how to recycle your Amazon packaging by checking out the 
Amazon Second Chance site.
• If you have an Echo device, Alexa Skills can help you find local recycling 
centers for specific items like lightbulbs and batteries. You can say “Alexa, 
open Recycling Center” to search for local options. Alexa is constantly 
adding new skills and improving on existing ones. The more people use 
them, the better they get over time.
Saving Energy and Water
• Install a smart thermostat through Amazon Home Services. You can see 
if a certified provider is available in your area by checking online. Smart 
home thermostats can help reduce heating and cooling energy use by 
adjusting the temperature by a few degrees depending on the time of 
day and whether or not anyone is home.
Learn more about 
how we promote 
sustainability 
on behalf of 
customers
amzn.to/
customers
37• Amazon Home Services professionals can help keep your home 
appliances in good working condition. They can take care of 
heating furnace and water heater maintenance or install a low-flow 
showerhead for you.
• To reduce home electricity and water use at home, search for LED 
lights, or in the U.S., ENERGY STAR, EPEAT, or WaterSense-certified 
products on Amazon.com.
• Reduce the carbon emissions of your travel. You can use your Echo 
device to find the closest bikeshare rental by saying “Alexa, open 
TransportMe”. Another Alexa skill, Evie Assistant, will help you find the 
location of the nearest electric vehicle charging station (say “Alexa, 
open Evie Assistant”). And you can even get an electric vehicle charging 
station installed at your house using Amazon Home Services’ network 
of installation professionals. 
• Echo devices can also make it easier to save energy or water at home. 
You can use Alexa-enabled LEDs and smart plugs to turn off plugged 
appliances and devices when you aren’t using them. Alexa Skills can also 
make it fun and easy to save energy. For example, you can say “Alexa, 
open Shower Buddy” to time your showers and use less water, or say 
“Alexa, open Cool My House” to reduce energy consumption. 
Supporting Charitable Organizations and Small Businesses
• Shop with AmazonSmile and choose from over a million charities to 
support. AmazonSmile has donated more than $100 million to charities 
thanks to customers shopping at smile.amazon.com.
• Purchase items for a charity by searching AmazonSmile Wish Lists for 
that charity’s registry. Amazon customers have donated more than 
600,000 relief items through Wish Lists.
• Donate directly to charities through your Echo device using your Amazon 
Pay account by saying “Alexa, make a donation.”
• Support artisans and women entrepreneurs. In Europe and North 
America, Amazon Handmade offers handcrafted artisan goods from 
around the world. In India, Amazon Saheli offers a wide selection of 
unique regional products by women entrepreneurs across clothing, 
accessories, office, home, and kitchen.
38Packaging and ProductsPartnerships
Many of the sustainability issues that we prioritize at Amazon are 
enhanced through partnerships and collaborative initiatives with credible, 
knowledgeable, and innovative industry partners.
• Beauty and Personal Care Leadership Group 
• Closed Loop Fund 
• Green Chemistry and Commerce Council 
• International Safe Transit Association
• Sustainable Packaging Coalition 
• The Recycling Partnership See all our 
partners   
amzn.to/
sustainability-
partnerships
39Social 
Responsibility
Amazon is strongly committed to conducting our business 
in a lawful and ethical manner, including engaging with 
suppliers who respect human rights, provide safe and 
inclusive workplaces, and promote a sustainable future.
4041About Our Supply Chain
Our mission is for our products to be made in a way that respects human 
rights and the environment. Our global teams work closely with suppliers to 
communicate our standards, and help suppliers build their capacity to provide 
safe and respectful working environments.
To ensure that our policies and programs incorporate internationally recognized 
human rights standards, we benchmark our policies and programs against those 
of industry and multilateral groups to continually improve our risk assessment 
and audit program. Our standards are derived from the United Nations Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Core Conventions of the 
International Labour Organization (ILO), including the ILO Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the UN Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights. We review our Supplier Code of Conduct against policies 
developed by industry initiatives (such as the Responsible Business Alliance) and 
further develop our standards in consultation with NEST ( amzn.to/build-a-nest ), 
Business for Social Responsibility ( amzn.to/biz-for-sr ), and Impactt Limited 
(amzn.to/impactt-limited ).
Supply Chain Standards
We set a high bar for ourselves and our suppliers. Our Supply Chain Standards 
detail the requirements and expectations for suppliers in our supply chain, 
and suppliers must contractually commit to these standards as a condition of 
doing business with us. amzn.to/supplier-code-of-conduct
Supplier Manual
Our Supply Chain Standards Manual provides guidance and resources to 
suppliers of Amazon-branded products on how to meet and exceed the 
expectations outlined in our Supply Chain Standards. amzn.to/supplier-manual
Key Commitments
We are committed to assessing our impact and focusing our efforts in the 
following key areas.
We evaluate our supply chain to identify the industries, countries, and issues 
where we have the greatest opportunities to identify and address risks and 
have a positive impact on workers. To do so, we leverage internal and external 
42Social Responsibilitydata, and guidance from industry experts, civil society groups, and non-
governmental organizations. In the event we identify an issue in our supply 
chain, we act fast and prioritize solutions from the workers’ point of view. 
We work with industry partners to prevent systemic issues and implement 
programs that support continuous improvement for our suppliers and workers.
Safe Workplaces
Safe and healthy workplaces are a top priority for Amazon. We have global 
teams who partner with suppliers to increase worker awareness of safety 
issues, promote worker participation in their safety culture, and promote 
initiatives focused on the well-being of workers on issues that matter most to 
them.  
Our suppliers must provide workers with a safe and healthy work 
environment; suppliers must, at a minimum, comply with applicable laws 
regarding working conditions. Additionally, we are committed to driving 
improvement in these key priority areas: (1) occupational safety, including 
adequate machine safeguarding, and ensuring suppliers continually identify, 
evaluate, and control physically demanding tasks to ensure that worker health 
and safety is not jeopardized; (2) emergency preparedness and response 
planning; and (3) sanitation and housing, where if suppliers provide residential 
facilities for their workers, they must provide clean and safe accommodations.  
We conduct on-site audits of suppliers’ safety conditions throughout our 
business relationship—often multiple times a year. This includes assessments 
of protections such as adequate fire safety systems, sanitary dormitories and 
facilities, and adequate machine safeguarding. 
We require suppliers to address these issues prior to beginning production 
with Amazon. Audit and assessment results are reviewed regularly by the 
leadership of the appropriate business, and corrective action plans are 
implemented with suppliers as needed.
Freely Chosen Employment
We will not tolerate the use of forced labor in our supply chain. Our 
Supplier Code of Conduct prohibits all forms of forced labor and human 
trafficking; this includes charging workers recruitment fees, holding 
passports or personal documentation, and coercion to work through 
threats of deportation or contacting immigration authorities. During our 
investigations, we track where vulnerable workers migrated from and how 
much they paid in recruitment fees. If fees have been paid, we require the 
supplier to reimburse workers in full. 
43We are collaborating with industry-wide efforts to address these issues 
holistically and spur change in the broader recruitment industry. These include:
• Tech Against Trafficking:  Tech Against Trafficking is a coalition of 
technology companies collaborating with global experts to help eradicate 
human trafficking using technology. 
• Global Business Coalition Against Trafficking (GBCAT):  GBCAT is 
a business-led collaborative initiative working to eliminate human 
trafficking in global business operations.  
• Responsible Labor Initiative:  The Responsible Labor Initiative is a 
multi-industry, multi-stakeholder initiative focused on ensuring that the 
rights of workers vulnerable to forced labor in global supply chains are 
consistently respected and promoted.
Learn more about our approach to forced labor in our Modern Day Slavery 
Statement here: amzn.to/modern-slavery . 
Empowering Women
Quality jobs for women translate to positive impacts for communities, and we 
are actively working to empower women across dimensions of health, finance, 
and career development. This includes collaborating with globally-recognized 
programs such as Better Work and, in 2019, beginning an initiative with 
Business for Social Responsibility’s HERproject™. To date, over 8,000 women 
in our supply chain are involved in BSR HERproject™.
Fair Wages
We are committed to working closely with suppliers, business partners, 
and multi-stakeholder associations to monitor and promote continuous 
improvement in working conditions, including fair and on-time payment of 
wages. We have dedicated teams across the globe that work directly with 
suppliers to track and report performance against these standards. 
Our suppliers are required to pay legally required compensation (including 
overtime and benefits), and we encourage our suppliers to continuously 
evaluate whether workers earn enough to meet their basic needs and the 
needs of their family.
We require all eligible suppliers in Bangladesh and Vietnam to enroll in the 
Better Work program. By working with suppliers and training on workers on 
their rights, Better Work is able to help workers improve wages over time.
44
Social ResponsibilityEnvironmental Protection
Our aim is to ensure that our products do not cause unnecessary 
environmental harm, and positively impact people and communities. We are 
a member of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (the Coalition). The Coalition 
is an industry-wide group of leading apparel and footwear brands, retailers, 
manufacturers, non-governmental organizations, academic experts, and 
government organizations working to reduce the environmental and social 
impacts of products around the world. 
We encourage our Private Brands suppliers to evaluate their practices using 
the Coalition’s Higg Index. We are committed to driving adoption of this 
assessment and helping our suppliers understand their environmental impact.
Partnerships
Many of the sustainability issues that we prioritize at Amazon are 
enhanced through partnerships and collaborative initiatives with credible, 
knowledgeable, and innovative industry partners.
• amfori 
• Business for Social Responsibility 
• BSR HERproject™ 
• Responsible Business Alliance
• Supplier Ethical Data Exchange
• Sustainable Apparel CoalitionSee all our 
partners   
amzn.to/
sustainability-
partnerships
45Amazon is committed to supporting people—customers, 
employees, and communities—through initiatives ranging 
from disaster relief to veteran employment.Employees and 
Communities
4647How Amazon Employees Help Drive 
Sustainability
At Amazon locations around the world, employees bring their energy and 
focus to initiatives that amplify and deliver on our company’s ambitious 
sustainability goals. Our employees find opportunities to lead and collaborate 
on such projects via Amazon Sustainability Ambassadors—a voluntary 
employee program that helps 
expand efforts by our global 
teams who work directly on 
managing our environmental and 
social impacts. 
The program started in 2017 
with chapters in corporate 
offices and fulfillment centers in the U.S. and Europe. Today, more than 
3,000 Amazonians worldwide have signed up to participate as Sustainability 
Ambassadors, and the program continues to expand, with over 105 teams 
across North America, Europe, and Asia. 
Ambassadors engage fellow Amazonians in sustainability awareness efforts 
and promote environmental education through onsite events, but they also 
lead projects and pilot initiatives that tangibly reduce our environmental 
impact. These initiatives include: expanding recycling to include new items 
or locations; setting up carpool programs; adding motion sensors to light 
switches to reduce electricity use; conducting energy audits with local utilities; 
switching to more sustainable products in common areas such as pantries and 
bathrooms; and campaigns aimed at reducing the use of disposable plastic 
bottles and containers.
Sustainability Ambassadors also have a unique chance to launch ideas with 
data-driven analysis and action using Amazon technology. For example, after 
auditing lunchtime waste at two Seattle campus cafes, one ambassador 
developed a proposal to improve waste sorting using AWS DeepLens, a deep Sustainability Ambassadors have a unique chance to 
launch ideas with data-driven analysis and action using 
Amazon technology. 
48
Employees and Communitieslearning enabled video camera. A team of Amazon employees built a dataset 
and model that used DeepLens’ object detection capabilities to identify the 
waste items being discarded and use built-in audio to tell people which bin to 
use for a given item.
The combination of ground-level action with scalable ideas and advanced 
technology makes Sustainability Ambassadors potent partners in realizing 
Amazon’s larger sustainability goals.
Diversity and Inclusion
We are continually looking for ways to further diversify our workforce and 
strengthen our culture of inclusion. amzn.to/diversity-inclusion
Affinity groups
Amazon has 10 affinity groups, also known as employee 
resource groups, which bring Amazonians together 
across businesses and locations around the world.  
amzn.to/affinity-groups
Building an inclusive culture
Amazon’s culture of inclusion is reinforced within our 14 
Leadership Principles, which remind team members to 
seek diverse perspectives, learn and be curious, and earn 
trust. amzn.to/inclusive-culture
Empowering diverse entrepreneurs
Through our technology, Amazon enables our sellers, 
creators, and builders from all backgrounds opportunities 
to follow their passion and find their best future.  
amzn.to/diverse-entrepreneurs
49Workplace Safety
Creating a culture of safety means listening to our associates as closely as we 
listen to our customers. amzn.to/fc-safety
Amazon’s commitment to workplace 
safety
Ideas from every part of Amazon help us improve every 
day, and workplace safety is no exception.  
amzn.to/workplace-safety
Tour an Amazon fulfillment center
Ever wonder how Amazon gets your packages to you so 
quickly? Come see the magic. Tour one of our fulfillment 
centers and see first-hand how we deliver to you.  
amzn.to/fc-tours
Amazon in the Community
We are committed to ensuring all children and young adults, especially 
those from underrepresented and underserved communities who reside in 
communities where we have a physical presence, have the resources and skills 
they need to build their best and brightest futures. amzn.to/our-communities
Amazon Future Engineer
This comprehensive childhood-to-career program aims 
to inspire, educate, and train children and young adults 
from underserved and low-income communities so they 
can pursue careers in computer science.  
amzn.to/future-engineer
Disaster Relief by Amazon
Amazon helps coordinate relief efforts around the 
world, delivering aid to communities coping with natural 
disasters. amzn.to/delivering-relief
50Employees and CommunitiesInvesting in frontline organizations 
making a difference in our communities
Amazon’s donations support housing and homelessness 
programs with partners like Mary’s Place.  
amzn.to/supporting-housing
Local Investment
From Southern California to Chattanooga, Tennessee, Amazon is directly—
and indirectly—helping local economies thrive. amzn.to/job-creation
Feeding a sense of community
Amazon has helped spark a bustling food truck scene 
outside its fulfillment center in Tennessee, which keeps 
employees well-fed and local businesses booming.  
amzn.to/chattanooga
Helping communities thrive
What a fulfillment center means to its community.  
amzn.to/the-amazon-effect
51AWS is committed to running our business in the most 
environmentally-friendly way possible. As part of Amazon’s 
commitment to achieving 100% renewable energy, AWS 
exceeded 50% renewable energy usage for 2018.Sustainability in 
the Cloud
5253Renewable Energy Map
Amazon’s renewable energy projects are expected to generate more 
than 2,900,000 megawatt hours of renewable energy each year.
Benton County, Indiana
150 megawatt wind farm
~500,000 megawatt hours of wind power annually
Kern County, California
47 megawatt wind farm 
~150,000 megawatt hours of wind power annually
Paulding County, Ohio  
100 megawatt wind farm
~320,000 megawatt hours of wind power annually
Southampton County, Virginia
100 megawatt solar farm
~210,000 megawatt hours of solar power annually
Powhatan County, Virginia
20 megawatt solar farm
Over 48,000 megawatt hours of solar power annually
Pittsylvania County, Virginia
45 megawatt solar farm
~100,000 megawatt hours of solar power annually
54
Sustainability in the CloudCounty Cork, Ireland
23.2 megawatt wind farm 
~68,000 megawatt hours of wind power annuallyCounty Donegal, Ireland
91.2 megawatt wind farm
~240,000 megawatt hours of wind power annuallyBäckhammar, Sweden
91 megawatt wind farm
~280,000 megawatt hours of wind power annually
Accomack County, VA
80 megawatt solar farm 
~170,000 megawatt hours of solar power annually
Desert Wind, Perquimans and Pasquotank Counties, North Carolina
208 megawatt wind farm 
~670,000 megawatt hours of wind power annually
Buckingham County, Virginia
20 megawatt solar farm
Over 48,000 megawatt hours of solar power annually
Sussex County, Virginia
20 megawatt solar farm
Over 48,000 megawatt hours of solar power annually
New Kent County, Virginia
20 megawatt solar farm
Over 48,000 megawatt hours of solar power annually
55Timeline
Learn how AWS is working to achieve its goal of 100% renewable energy.
August 
2019AWS announced two new renewable energy projects in Europe 
and the U.S. Amazon’s second renewable energy project in the 
Republic of Ireland and seventh in the Commonwealth of Virginia 
are expected to produce approximately 168,000 megawatt hours of 
clean energy annually.
April  
2019AWS announced three new wind farms—one in Ireland, one in Sweden, 
and one in the U.S. When complete, these projects are expected 
to generate 670,000 megawatt hours (MWh) of renewable energy 
annually.
External press release: amzn.to/new-wind
2018AWS exceeded 50% renewable energy usage for 2018.
December 
2017Five solar farms that AWS previously announced are now in operation 
in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Together with Amazon Solar Farm 
U.S. East, the six solar farms bring 260 megawatts of renewable 
energy capacity onto the grid.
November 
2016AWS announced five new solar farms across the Commonwealth 
of Virginia—these solar farms join the company’s existing project, 
Amazon Solar Farm U.S. East, which went into production in October 
2016. Amazon worked with developers Virginia Solar LLC and 
Community Energy Solar on the projects and will further collaborate 
with an affiliate of Dominion Resources, Inc. to own and operate the 
solar farms.
October 
2016Amazon Solar Farm U.S. East is now in production in Accomack 
County, Virginia. The 80 megawatt solar farm is expected to generate 
approximately 170,000 megawatt hours of solar power annually.
56Sustainability in the CloudJune  
2016AWS and Dominion Virginia Power join forces on a landmark renewable 
energy delivery deal. With this, Dominion Virginia Power will manage 
and integrate the energy produced from various Amazon wind and 
solar farm projects onto the grid that serves AWS datacenters. 
April  
2016Amazon joined Apple, Google, and Microsoft in filing an Amicus Brief 
that supports the continued implementation of the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency’s Clean Power Plan (CPP) and discusses the 
technology industry’s growing desire for affordable renewable energy 
across the U.S. 
Read the brief here: amzn.to/amicus-brief
January 
2016Amazon Wind Farm Fowler Ridge launched, marking the first of our 
four announced renewable energy projects to move into full operation.
November 
2015AWS announced that it has contracted with EDP Renewables to 
construct and operate Amazon Wind Farm U.S. Central.
September 
2015Amazon joined The Buyers’ Principles to collaborate with more than 
40 other companies on making clean energy solutions more affordable 
and accessible to all.
Learn more about The Buyers’ Principles: amzn.to/buyers-principles
July  
2015AWS announced that it has contracted with Iberdrola Renewables, LLC 
to construct and operate Amazon Wind Farm U.S. East.
June  
2015AWS announced that it has teamed with Community Energy, Inc. to 
construct and operate Amazon Solar Farm U.S. East. 
Read the press release: amzn.to/aws-solar-virginia   
57April  
2015Amazon announced that it has joined the American Council on 
Renewable Energy (ACORE) and will participate in the U.S. Partnership 
for Renewable Energy Finance (U.S. PREF) to increase its work with 
state and federal policymakers and other stakeholders to enable more 
renewable energy opportunities for cloud providers.
January 
2015AWS announced it has teamed with Pattern Development to construct 
and operate Amazon Wind Farm Fowler Ridge. 
November 
2014AWS shared its long-term commitment to achieve 100% renewable 
energy usage for the global AWS infrastructure footprint.
58
Sustainability in the CloudCloud Efficiency
“Our results show 
that AWS’s infrastructure 
is 3.6 times more energy 
efficient than the median of 
the surveyed US enterprise data centers. 
More than two-thirds of this advantage 
is attributable to the combination of a 
more energy efficient server population 
and much higher server utilization. AWS 
data centers are also more energy efficient 
than enterprise sites due to comprehensive 
efficiency programs that touch every facet 
of the facility.
When we factor in the carbon intensity of 
consumed electricity and renewable energy 
purchases, which reduce associated carbon 
emissions, AWS performs the same task with 
an 88% lower carbon footprint.”
Source: 451 Research, 2019, All Rights Reserved.
59Water
Reducing Water Used for Cooling in AWS Data Centers 
AWS has always focused on efficiency and continuous innovation in our data 
centers to improve operational excellence and reduce our impact on the 
environment. In addition to our efforts on energy efficiency and our goal 
to achieve 100% renewable energy for our global infrastructure, AWS has 
multiple initiatives to improve our water use efficiency and reduce the use 
of potable (drinking) water for cooling data centers. AWS develops 
our water use strategy by evaluating climate patterns for each 
AWS Region, local water management and availability, and 
the opportunity to conserve drinking water sources. Taking 
a holistic approach, we assess both the water and energy 
usage of each potential cooling solution to select the most 
efficient method. 
Evaporative Cooling 
When possible, AWS incorporates direct evaporative 
technology for cooling our data centers, significantly reducing 
energy and water consumption. During cooler months, outside 
air is directly supplied to the data center without using any water. 
During the hottest months of the year, outside air is cooled 
through an evaporative process using water before being pushed 
into the server rooms, and we have optimized our cooling systems to use 
minimal water. AWS is constantly innovating the design of our cooling systems 
to further reduce water use, and we utilize real-time sensor data to adapt to 
changing weather conditions. 
Recycled Water 
AWS is expanding its use of non-potable water for cooling purposes to 
help conserve local drinking water sources. In Northern Virginia, AWS was 
the first data center operator to be approved to use recycled water with 
direct evaporative cooling technology. We partnered with Loudoun Water to 
demonstrate the benefits of recycled water for industrial cooling applications, 
and shared our operational best practices for utilizing recycled water in our 
data centers. In the AWS U.S. West (Oregon) Region, we have partnered with 
a local utility to use non-potable water for multiple data centers, and we are 
retrofitting AWS data centers in Northern California to use recycled water. 
60
Sustainability in the CloudThe process for utilizing recycled water begins when wastewater from 
residential and industrial customers is treated at a local facility and 
redistributed through its own piping infrastructure. Recycled water has to 
meet stringent health standards and safe surface discharge standards. 
AWS is working with local utilities to expand distribution infrastructure and 
drive faster implementation and adoption of recycled water for data center 
cooling applications, in order to reduce our usage of potable water. 
Onsite Water Treatment 
AWS is implementing onsite modular water treatment systems in multiple 
regions. As water is cycled through evaporative cooling units, minerals build 
up as water evaporates, eventually reaching a level of concentration that 
requires replacement with fresh water. Onsite water treatment allows us to 
remove scale-forming minerals and reuse water for more cycles. Increasing 
our “cycles of concentration” allows us to continue to reduce water intake for 
cooling our data centers. 
Water Efficiency Metrics 
In the infrastructure regions where we use water for cooling, AWS has 
developed water efficiency metrics to determine and monitor optimal water 
use for each AWS Region, and we employ a data-driven approach to select 
the most effective water reduction technologies. Water metrics from each 
of our Regions help AWS evaluate technologies and understand the long-
term impacts on our water usage, in order to increase efficiency as our 
infrastructure grows and we expand to new regions. 
We are partnering with utilities to connect directly to utility water meters, 
and we are also installing our own meters to track real-time water usage 
to provide consistent data for our operations and sustainability teams. By 
analyzing this data, AWS can identify opportunities to reduce water usage 
and rapidly make operational changes, rather than waiting for bills or 
usage reports. 
AWS will continue to implement these strategies and test new technologies in 
order to reduce our water consumption and conserve potable water sources. 
Saving water is good for the environment and also benefits our customers as 
we increase our operational efficiency.
61At Amazon we pride ourselves on building a culture of 
innovation, and using our technology resources to help 
customers, employees, and society. Our employees constantly 
think about how to invent for good—what products and services 
can we build that customers need today and in the future.Tech for Good
6263Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative
Providing access to large datasets in the cloud helps researchers and 
innovators address a wide range of sustainability challenges. amzn.to/asdi
Alexa Skills Challenge: Tech for Good
Developers competed to build Alexa Skills that have a positive effect on the 
environment, local communities, and the world. amzn.to/skills-challenge 
DeepLens Sustainability Challenge
Using the machine learning ability of AWS DeepLens, teams create projects 
that deal with ecological challenges like encouraging waste reduction, 
improving waste sorting, and more. amzn.to/deeplens-challenge
64
Tech for GoodDisaster Relief by Amazon
We leverage our expertise in logistics by mobilizing employees and customers 
to donate to the Red Cross and UNICEF through our homepage in countries 
around the world.
Delivering relief to communities 
impacted by natural disasters
The Disaster Relief by Amazon team coordinates relief 
efforts around the world. amzn.to/delivering-relief  
By the numbers
From 2017 to 2019, millions of people around the world 
were impacted by natural disasters—from hurricanes in 
the United States and the Caribbean, to floods in India, 
and earthquakes in Mexico. Amazon was there to help. 
amzn.to/drba-numbers
65Governance
Our science-based, customer-centric 
approach involves a variety of mechanisms 
to integrate sustainability throughout 
Amazon’s business operations.
6667Mechanisms for Prioritizing Our Work 
At Amazon, we take a science-based, customer-centric approach to 
sustainability. We use a structured lifecycle assessment model to measure and 
map environmental hotspots across our value chain. We also have conducted 
a sustainability materiality assessment to identify the most significant 
environmental and social topics across our business. 
We prioritize risks and opportunities by taking into account customer and 
stakeholder expectations, regulations, business risks, industry best practices, 
trends in financial and sustainability reporting, and emerging topics in news 
and social media.
Some of our current highest priority sustainability issues are:
• Climate change, energy efficiency, renewable energy, and sustainable 
transportation
• Responsible supply chain practices, including human rights and the safety 
and well-being of workers in our supply chainWe integrate sustainability practices into our everyday 
operations through goal-setting, metrics, and quarterly 
business reviews.
68Governance• Waste, recycling, and the circular economy
• Sustainable products
Amazon uses a variety of mechanisms to ensure that sustainability is 
embedded in our business operations. We integrate sustainability practices 
into our everyday operations through goal-setting, metrics, and quarterly 
business reviews. 
In the area of climate change in particular, we are developing the data and 
tools to address climate risks for both our business and our customers. The 
foundation of this work is the Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (ASDI), 
a global and authoritative source for open-sourced weather, climate, and 
sustainability data. This data, together with AWS analytical tools, is enabling 
cutting-edge scientific work and helping us raise the bar for customers. 
For example, by using the NOAA weather data available in ASDI, Amazon 
transportation teams have been able to better predict how weather-related 
events (snowstorms, floods, heatwaves, etc.) impact customer package 
deliveries, and we have provided customers with more accurate delivery 
estimates as a result. The AWS Infrastructure team also leverages weather 
data from ASDI to better assess the impact of weather on AWS data centers. 
We are developing a robust tool for assessing and managing weather and 
climate-related risks for our assets, people, and operations. Our ultimate goal 
is to enable customers and suppliers to use the tools we are developing in-
house to improve climate resilience. 
69UN Sustainable Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 global goals 
the United Nations General Assembly (UN) set to provide a shared blueprint 
for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future. At 
Amazon, there are multiple ways our sustainability work aligns with these global 
goals. The following shows how our programs correspond to the UN SDGs. 
Sustainable operations
Packaging and products
Social responsibility
Employees and communities
Sustainability in the cloud
Tech for good
Partnerships
70
GovernanceSustainability Partnerships
Many of the cross-cutting sustainability issues that we prioritize at Amazon 
are enhanced through partnerships and collaborative initiatives with credible, 
knowledgeable, and innovative industry partners. Examples of these groups include:
Amazon is a founding member the Advanced Energy Buyers Group  (AEBG). The 
mission of the business-led AEBG is to engage on policies that make it possible for non-
residential energy users to meet their own energy needs with advanced energy through 
simple, flexible, market-based solutions; and to support policies that facilitate the 
transition to an electricity system that is secure, clean, resilient, smart, and affordable.
To promote education, analysis and policy advocacy for clean energy, Amazon joined 
Advanced Energy Economy (AEE), a nonprofit association of clean energy businesses 
that is committed to promoting clean and affordable energy technologies. AEE 
publishes reports, brings together stakeholders and advocates for advanced energy 
policies with state and federal policymakers on issues related to electric vehicles, 
renewable energy, energy efficiency, and the smart grid.
To support our engagement on renewable energy, Amazon joined the American 
Council on Renewable Energy  (ACORE), a nonprofit membership organization 
dedicated to building a secure and prosperous America with clean, renewable energy. 
ACORE convenes thought leadership forums and creates energy industry partnerships to 
communicate the economic, security, and environmental benefits of renewable energy.
Amazon began working with amfori , a leading global business association for open 
and sustainable trade. They bring together over 2,000 retailers, importers, brands, and 
associations from over 40 countries, to drive social performance and improvements in 
their global supply chains.
71Beauty and Personal Care Leadership Group 
Amazon joined the Beauty and Personal Care Leadership Group , a multi-
stakeholder group of brands, retailers, and NGOs working to enhance beauty and 
personal care product sustainability by aligning and simplifying the assessment criteria 
for determining product sustainability.
Amazon is a member of Business for Social Responsibility  (BSR), a global nonprofit 
that works with partners across business, civil society, and government sectors to build 
a just and sustainable world. Amazon participates in working groups such as Future 
of Fuels (a collaboration with a mission to drive a sustainable transition to low-carbon 
commercial road freight), Clean Cargo Working Group (an initiative to reduce the 
environmental impacts of global goods transportation), and Tech Against Trafficking (a 
coalition of technology companies collaborating with global experts to help eradicate 
human trafficking using technology).
Amazon joined BSR’s HERproject™ , a collaborative initiative that strives to empower 
low-income women working in global supply chains. Bringing together global brands, 
their suppliers, and local NGOs, HERproject™ drives impact for women and business via 
workplace-based interventions on health, financial inclusion, and gender equality. Since 
its inception in 2007, HERproject™ has worked in more than 700 workplaces across 
14 countries and has increased the well-being, confidence, and economic potential of 
more than 800,000 women.
Amazon joined the Business Environmental Leadership Council at the Center for 
Climate and Energy Solutions  (C2ES) to work toward practical solutions to the 
world’s climate and energy challenges. C2ES is an independent, nonpartisan, nonprofit 
organization working to forge practical solutions to climate change. Through strong 
policy and action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, promote clean energy, and 
strengthen resilience to climate impacts, C2ES works with Fortune 500 companies to 
coordinate business action and business support for effective climate policy.HERpr oject
72
GovernanceAmazon has committed $10 million to the Closed Loop Fund  to increase the recycling 
of products and packaging. Through project finance, the fund provides cities and 
companies with access to capital necessary to increase recycling rates in communities 
across America and build circular supply chains. 
Amazon joined the Corporate Eco Forum  (CEF), an invitation-only membership 
group for large companies that demonstrate a serious commitment to sustainability 
as a business strategy issue. CEF’s mission is to help accelerate sustainable business 
innovation by creating a neutral space for senior business leaders to strategize and 
exchange best-practice insights.
Amazon joined the Green Chemistry and Commerce Council  (GC3), a multi-
stakeholder collaborative that drives the commercial adoption of green chemistry by 
catalyzing and guiding action across all industries, sectors, and supply chains.
Amazon is a member of the International Safe Transit Association  (ISTA), an 
organization focused on the specific concerns of transport packaging. ISTA is a 
nonprofit, member-driven association that sets the standards for optimizing the 
resources in packages that are designed to be survivable, sustainable, and successful.
To support a resilient clean energy system, Amazon joined the Renewable Energy 
Buyers Alliance  (REBA). REBA is an alliance of large clean energy buyers, energy 
providers, and service providers that, together with NGO partners, is unlocking the 
marketplace for all nonresidential energy buyers to lead a rapid transition to a cleaner, 
prosperous, zero-carbon energy future.
73To advocate for issues related to clean energy purchasing, Amazon is a member 
of the RE-Source Platform . RE-Source is a European alliance of stakeholders 
representing clean energy buyers and suppliers for corporate renewable energy 
sourcing. It is the first and only multi-stakeholder platform in Europe bringing 
together the interests of both buyers and sellers in order to unlock the potential 
of new business models, accelerate the transition to affordable renewable energy 
sources, and help combat climate change.
Amazon joined the Responsible Business Alliance  (RBA), a nonprofit coalition 
of companies committed to supporting the rights and well-being of workers and 
communities worldwide affected by the global electronics supply chain. The RBA is the 
world’s largest industry coalition dedicated to electronics supply chain responsibility.
Amazon joined the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange  (Sedex), a global nonprofit 
organization that provides manufacturers and retailers a platform to manage 
responsible sourcing data and monitor continuous improvement across their 
supply chains.
Amazon joined SolarPower Europe  (SPE) to help advance solar energy development 
across Europe. SPE works to ensure solar-based energy solutions have access to 
financing and funding across Europe, positioning these solutions with policymakers 
at the European and national levels, effectively communicating the benefits of solar 
power and more.
74
GovernanceAmazon joined the Sustainable Apparel Coalition  (SAC), an industry alliance on 
sustainable production for apparel, footwear, and textiles. The Coalition uses the 
Higg Index, a standardized value chain measurement suite of tools for all industry 
participants. These tools measure environmental and social labor impacts across 
the value chain. With this data, the industry can address inefficiencies, improve 
sustainability performance, and achieve the environmental and social transparency 
consumers are demanding.
Amazon joined the Sustainable Packaging Coalition®  (SPC), an industry working 
group dedicated to a more robust environmental vision for packaging. SPC uses 
strong member support, an informed and science-based approach, supply chain 
collaborations, and continuous outreach to build packaging systems that encourage 
economic prosperity and a sustainable flow of materials.
Amazon joined The Recycling Partnership  to increase access to and improve 
curbside recycling in the United States. The Recycling Partnership supports 
communities and local governments with education, infrastructure, and 
measurement related to curbside recycling.
U.S. Partnership for Renewable Energy Finance 
Amazon joined the U.S. Partnership for Renewable Energy Finance  (U.S. PREF), a 
program of ACORE, to support our work with state and federal policymakers and other 
stakeholders to enable more renewable energy opportunities for cloud providers. U.S. 
PREF is an educational program that provides expert input on how the renewable 
energy finance market works.
 
75Amazon Sustainability Policy Positions 
Increasing the deployment of renewable energy resources is valuable for the planet, good 
for business, and important for our customers. As part of our sustainability efforts, Amazon 
advocates in support of public policy that advances access to and the expansion of clean energy. 
We will continue to promote policies that support renewable energy to power our operations. 
Since 2016, we have taken the following actions in support of promoting clean energy and 
addressing climate change. 
April  
2016Amazon joined Apple, Google, and Microsoft in filing an amicus brief in 
support of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Clean Power Plan.
February 
2017 Amazon offered support for a Virginia bill to create a new community 
solar law in the Commonwealth. 
June  
2017 Amazon joined the We Are Still In coalition to express support for 
remaining in the Paris Climate Agreement. 
October 
2017Amazon authored a letter to the Ohio State Legislature in support of a 
bill that would reduce restrictions on the siting of wind energy projects 
in the state.
October 
2017Amazon provided support for the regulatory approval of a green 
energy program offering being created by the Florida electric utility 
that provides power to our facilities in the Jacksonville region.
December 
2017 Amazon wrote to the California Public Utilities Commission in support 
of an electric vehicle charging program for the San Diego region. 
December 
2017Amazon urged the European Union Commission to establish a goal of 
35% renewable energy by 2030.
September 
2018 Amazon staff spoke at the Midwest Governor’s Association conference 
and highlighted our interest in access to renewable energy and the 
importance of states reducing barriers to renewable energy access. 
76GovernanceNovember 
2018Amazon authored a letter to the European Commission in support of the 
removal of regulatory barriers to corporate sourcing of renewable energy.
November 
2018Amazon signed on to a joint declaration calling for changes to 
European energy policy, that would allow for easier access to 
renewable energy. The declaration sought to reduce barriers that 
hinder renewable energy trading and tracking across borders between 
European Union member countries.
December 
2018 Amazon wrote to the Georgia Public Service Commission advocating 
for a strong renewable energy offering from the Georgia electric utility. 
February 
2019Amazon spoke to the National Association of State Energy Officials 
about the importance of energy efficiency and renewable energy for 
our business operations, and to encourage states to help support the 
deployment of electric vehicles.
May  
2019Amazon wrote to the Virginia State Corporation Commission 
encouraging that more renewable energy and clean energy 
technologies be included in a long-term plan by Virginia’s largest 
electric utility.
June  
2019 Amazon signed a letter to the European Commission outlining 
the importance of corporate renewable energy procurement and 
encouraging that National Energy and Climate Plans remove barriers 
to renewable energy purchasing. 
June  
2019Amazon supported legislation introduced in the United States 
Congress that would allow clean energy projects access to financing by 
forming master limited partnerships.
August 
2019Amazon leadership spoke at the National Conference of State 
Legislatures Energy Summit and implored state legislators to accelerate 
the deployment of renewable energy across the United States.
7778Explore Amazon’s renewable energy 
projects around the globe.
amzn.to/sustainability-mapAmazon Around 
the Globe
79