Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources
Last updated October 23, 2018Microsoft 2018
Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report2Our approach
Our approach to reporting04
Governance of CSR06
Letter from our CEO08
Letter from our CEO adfasdf08Contents
Privacy and data security16
Empowering nonprofits36
Environmental sustainability49
Reports hub54Accessibility19
Humanitarian action39Digital skills and career pathways21
Public policy engagement41Responsible sourcing25
Local engagement45Human rights28
Our employees31Empowering people
Strengthening communities
Protecting our planet
Resources
Global Reporting Initiative Index56
UN SDGs57
Recognitions58Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report3Our approach
Our approach to reporting04
Governance of CSR06
Letter from our CEO08
Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report4Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
Transparent reporting
We want to help customers make informed choices about our products and 
services and ensure stakeholders can evaluate our corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) commitments.
About our report
Standards
UN Global Compact IndexWe’ve designed our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report to share infor -
mation about how we’re making the world a better place. The digital report offers 
comparable year-over-year data about our progress and provides quick links to 
additional resources to help tell a comprehensive story. In his annual shareholder 
letter, Satya Nadella, addresses our business and social impacts and sets the stage 
for both the 2018 CSR and Financial annual reports. Unless otherwise stated, the 
information on this report covers all of the Microsoft global operations during the 
2018 fiscal year (July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018).
To make this information consumable for many audiences, we’ve designed our re -
port first and foremost for digital display ( see our online CSR Report ), yet also offer 
this PDF version to provide an additional access option for our stakeholders. Please 
see the Reports hub  for a single-page view of all of the supplemental reports refer -
enced throughout our comprehensive report PDF. 
This report contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sus -
tainability Reporting Standards , which were used to prepare the content included.  
Please see our GRI Index  for deta iled data and additional information.
The human rights-related disclosures are based on the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights Reporting Framework (RAFI). In addition, this report 
serves as the Microsoft annual Communication on Progress (COP) under the United 
Nations (UN) Global Compact. The following table describes the location of content 
relevant to each of the ten UN Global Compact principles.
Human Rights
Principle 1:
Principle 2:Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.
Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Learn how we are empowering our employees , protecting human rights , and ensuring the responsible 
sourcing  of all our products and materials as part of our commitment to these human rights principles.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report5Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
Environment
Anti-corruptionPrinciple 7:
Principle 10:Principle 9:Principle 8:Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.
Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
Learn about our CSR Governance  and how we are ensuring the responsible sourcing  of all our products 
and materials as part of our commitment to this anti-corruption policy.Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Learn how we are protecting the planet  and ensuring the responsible sourcing  of all our products and 
materials as part of our commitment to these labor principles.Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.
Share your feedback We hope that you find this report valuable. We welcome your feedback about the 
content provided within the report and invite any recommendations on topics you’d 
like to see addressed in the future. Please email your feedback and comments to 
csr@microsoft.com .Principle 6:
The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Learn how we are empowering our employees  and ensuring the responsible sourcing  of all our products 
and materials as part of our commitment to these labor principles.Labor
Principle 3:
Principle 5:Principle 4:Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 
collective bargaining.
The effective abolition of child labor.The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report6Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
CSR Governance
Empowering every person and every organization to achieve more requires careful 
attention to the impact of our business practices, policies, and community invest -
ments.
We see the big picture The Microsoft Technology and Corporate Responsibility (TCR) team, in collaboration 
with leaders across business and operations, drives companywide approaches to 
corporate social responsibility issues. The head of TCR reports directly to Microsoft 
President and Chief Legal Officer, Brad Smith, who sits on our Senior Leadership 
Team and reports directly to CEO, Satya Nadella. We work together to earn the trust 
and confidence of the public, our customers, partners, employees, and sharehold -
ers.
The charter  for the Regulatory and Public Policy Committee of our Board of Direc -
tors includes the responsibility to “review and provide guidance to the board and 
management about the company’s policies and programs that relate to corporate 
social responsibility, including accessibility, environmental sustainability, ethical busi -
ness practices, human rights, philanthropy, privacy and cybersecurity, and responsi -
ble sourcing.
At Microsoft, our focus on corporate social responsibility fosters sustained long 
term business success. Our corporate governance framework, policies, and practices 
are described in detail in our annual proxy statement and the corporate governance 
section  of our Investor Relations website.
Details about our Ethics and Compliance  policies and programs include our Stan -
dards of Business Conduct, which applies to Microsoft employees, executive officers, 
our Board of Directors, and Microsoft subsidiaries and controlled affiliates (where 
Microsoft directly or indirectly owns more than 50 percent of the voting control). 
Channels are provided to ensure that concerns can be raised and subsequently 
addressed. All Microsoft employees must complete an annual Standards of Business 
Conduct  training course, available in 18 languages. In FY18, as in previous years, 
course completion was more than 99 percent. In addition, mandatory trainings ad -
dress the compliance risks of specific roles and business functions, while a variety of 
additional guidance options ensure awareness of our policies and our expectations 
for ethical behavior.
Working together with 
stakeholders  We know that the decisions we make affect our employees, customers, partners, 
shareholders, suppliers, and communities and we take their voices into account. Mi -
crosoft receives input from millions of people each year—from individual customers 
to policymakers and global human rights specialists. We bring outside perspectives 
into the company and inform our business decisions through a variety of feedback 
channels. We go beyond formal channels, proactively engaging with key stakehold -
ers, advocacy groups, industry experts, CSR rating agencies, CSR-focused investors, 
and many others. We also share our learnings and practices thereby generating 
industry dialogue, informing public debate, and advancing greater progress.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report7Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
Stakeholder engagement report  
Aligning our values
Driving positive impact to both 
business and societyOur stakeholder engagement report outlines the types of stakeholders we engage 
and how we engage with them in the governance of CSR, along with examples of 
the results they achieved.
 Download the report (PDF)
Microsoft works to align our CSR commitments and CSR reporting to global stan -
dards. We base our CSR reporting on the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines . In 2006, we began endorsing the United Nations Global Com -
pact and we file an annual Communication on Progress  implementing the 10 UNGC 
principles. In addition, we were among the first companies to align our human 
rights work with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  and to 
adopt the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. We’re actively engaged in 
supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals  and publicly report  how Micro -
soft contributes to the global effort to achieve the SDGs. 
We apply the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards to 
our CSR materiality assessment to define our most significant CSR issues. Using this 
approach, we’ve identified the top issues. Our CSR materiality assessment reflects 
input gathered from our stakeholder engagement processes, consultation with 
Business for Social Responsibility , other external experts, and consideration of the 
impact of our core businesses.
Based on this analysis, the top issues include:
• Applying technology for environmental and social good
• Accessibility  
• Climate change and energy 
• Data privacy and security 
• Empowering communities
• Ethical business practices
• Human capital
• Human rights
• Responsible sourcing and device lifecycle impacts Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report8Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
Letter from our CEO 
Dear shareholders, customers, partners and employees:
As I reflect on our progress this past year, I first want to say thank you for your 
commitment and investment in Microsoft. I’m proud of what we’ve accomplished 
together as we innovate and help customers navigate their digital transformation, 
and I am even more optimistic about the opportunity ahead.
We are living at a crucial time in history where the impact of technology on every 
part of our daily life and work and every aspect of our society and economy is 
more acute than ever before. It is incumbent upon leaders of our industry to ensure 
that the technology we build always creates opportunity. Too often, we celebrate 
technology disruption for the sake of disruption without reflecting on its unintended 
consequences. What the world needs is technology that benefits people and society 
more broadly and is trusted.
Our mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet 
to achieve more.  Our business model is dependent on our customers’ and part -
ners’ success. We are grounded in creating local economic opportunity in every 
community, helping to unlock the power of technology to address our customers’ 
most pressing challenges. Our platforms and tools enable creativity in all of us. 
They help drive small-business productivity, large business competitiveness and 
public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and 
health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity. Our sense of purpose lies in our 
customers’ success.
Our culture enables us to pursue our mission with a growth mindset. It’s a continu -
ous practice of learning, renewal and having the courage to confront our own fixed 
mindsets. Collectively, we are moving from a group of people who know it all to a 
group of people who want to learn it all. To achieve our mission, we must reflect the 
diverse perspectives and experiences of our customers around the world. We must 
have a deep sense of their unmet and unarticulated needs. Each day we are push-“We are grounded in creating local economic 
opportunity in every community, helping to 
unlock the power of technology to address 
our customers’ most pressing challenges.”Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report9Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
ing ourselves to be more customer obsessed, to be more diverse and inclusive, and 
to operate as One Microsoft — ultimately to make a bigger difference in the world.
One of the greatest privileges I have as CEO of Microsoft is seeing firsthand the 
incredible impact our technologies have on people and organizations around the 
world. Our ecosystem touches the lives of billions of people every single day, creat -
ing new opportunity for our customers and partners and positively impacting local 
communities.
In Kenya, our partner M-KOPA Solar has connected hundreds of thousands of 
homes across sub-Saharan Africa to solar power for the first time using the Micro -
soft Cloud, innovating with a pay-as-you-go model that helps households living on 
less than $2 a day establish a credit history. In Arizona, we are applying Dynamics 
365 to improve outcomes among one of the state’s most vulnerable populations — 
the more than 15,000 children in foster care. In Poland, MedApp is using HoloLens 
to help cardiologists visualize a patient’s heart as it beats — in real time — reducing 
the amount of time they then need to perform open-heart surgery. In Kona, Hawaii, 
Jack’s Diving Locker is using Microsoft 365 to connect its 50 employees across land 
and sea so that they can focus on what they do best — protect pristine coral reefs 
and take people diving. In Washington state, Karrick Johnson, an 8-year-old with 
dyslexia, avoided reading in class until he started using our Learning Tools. And in 
Cambodia, underserved children in rural communities are learning to code with 
Minecraft, opening doors to futures that would have previously been unimaginable.
Across the globe, enterprise customers in every industry — from iconic brands like 
Coca-Cola Company and Chevron Corporation to ZF Group, a car parts manufac -
turer in Germany — are using our technology to build their own digital capability so 
they can thrive in a world where every company is a software company. Walmart — 
the world’s largest company by revenue, and its biggest private employer — chose 
Azure and Microsoft 365 to fuel its digital transformation, transforming the shop -
ping experience for customers and empowering their more than 2 million associates 
to do their best work.
In sum, our platforms create broad surplus everywhere, from the farmer who is 
able to apply precision agriculture to conserve resources and increase yields, to the 
hospital that is able to lower the cost of healthcare and improve patient outcomes, 
to the largest companies of the world reaching new customers in new markets.
The breadth and depth of our mission and the trust customers are placing in us to 
power their digital transformation enable us to have this broad impact — and it is 
fueling our results. 
In fiscal 2018, we delivered $110.4 billion in revenue and $35.1 billion in operating 
income and returned $21.5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share 
repurchases.
Our commercial cloud business delivered more than $23 billion in revenue, exceed -
ing the ambitious goal we had set to achieve $20 billion in annualized commercial 
cloud revenue by the end of fiscal 2018, nine months ahead of schedule. In addition, 
we expanded our commercial cloud gross margin to 57 percent, up 7 points year-
over-year.Opportunity and impact
Results and progressMicrosoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report10Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
These are strong results — and yet the opportunity ahead in a world powered by 
an intelligent cloud and edge is unprecedented. Imagine a future where all of your 
apps and experiences revolve around you and transcend any single device; where 
data in any form is analyzed in real time so that computers can anticipate and even 
act on your behalf and augment what you would otherwise be able to accomplish 
on your own. And where computing is more distributed and embedded in the 
world, from intelligent digital assistants at work, on the go and in your home that 
you can communicate with in a myriad of ways — voice, eyes or gestures — to oil 
rigs that adjust production in real time as demand fluctuates in global markets.
Across each of our customer solution areas, we are broadening our offerings and 
accelerating our innovation to capture the opportunities this new era will create for 
our customers and better meet their unarticulated needs.
Modern Workplace
We expanded our Microsoft 365 offerings to reach new audiences and empow -
er more employees for the modern workplace, protecting data from increasingly 
sophisticated cybersecurity threats and delivering secure productivity and collabo -
ration tools. Already a multi-billion-dollar business, Microsoft 365 gives customers a 
path to the cloud and broadens our reach with new and under-penetrated markets 
— from Fortune 500 enterprises to small businesses to more than 2 billion firstline 
workers. More than 135 million people use Office 365 commercial every month, and 
Outlook Mobile is helping people be productive and stay secure on more than 100 
million iOS and Android devices worldwide — with AI-infused experiences they use 
every day. Microsoft Teams has rapidly become the hub for teamwork and is being 
used by more than 300,000 organizations of all sizes, including 87 of the Fortune 
100. Windows 10 is now active on nearly 700 million devices around the world. And 
we continue to create new device categories with always-on, always-connected 
Windows 10 PCs and an expanded family of Surface devices including the new Sur -
face Go — setting the bar for the industry.
Business Applications
Every process inside a business is being digitized, and we are winning customers 
with our differentiated approach, enabling organizations of all sizes to digitize 
critical business functions — from sales to marketing to HR. Dynamics 365 is the al -
ternative to monolithic, siloed suites of business applications with modular, extensi -
ble and AI-driven apps that are part of a connected data graph and unlock insights 
across every part of the organization. Net seats grew 52 percent year-over-year, and 
our investments in Power BI have made Microsoft the leader in business analytics 
in the cloud. Our recently announced Open Data Initiative with Adobe and SAP will 
enable our customers to take control of their data and build new experiences that 
truly put people at the center. And we are innovating with HoloLens and mixed 
reality to create immersive experiences that digitize physical spaces and interactions 
to transform training, collaboration and design for firstline workers, who account for 
80 percent of the world’s workforce.
LinkedIn is the essential platform to connect the world’s professionals and create 
economic opportunity for every member of the global workforce. LinkedIn now has 
more than 575 million members, and we are continuously innovating to give them 
new ways to connect and engage with one another — from increasing the relevan -
cy of the LinkedIn Feed to a better mobile experience, to introducing new video 
and messaging capability. And we are transforming how companies manage talent, 
training, and sales and marketing with new solutions powered by the LinkedIn and 
Microsoft Graphs. Dynamics 365 for Talent with LinkedIn Recruiter and Learning 
gives HR professionals a complete solution in an increasingly competitive talent 
marketplace, and deep integration of LinkedIn Sales Navigator and Dynamics 365Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report11Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
redefines social selling, enabling sales professionals to dramatically increase their 
effectiveness by drawing on the relationships in their personal networks. We will 
continue to innovate across the LinkedIn platform to add new value for members 
and customers.
Applications and Infrastructure
To thrive in the era of the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge, customers need a 
consistent computing stack from the cloud to the edge. Azure is the only hyperscale 
cloud that extends to the edge across identity, data, application platform, and secu -
rity and management — and this architectural advantage is increasingly clear to our 
customers. Azure revenue grew 91 percent year-over-year.
And we are investing aggressively to build Azure as the world’s computer. We ex -
panded our global datacenter footprint to 54 regions — more than any other cloud 
provider — and with the most comprehensive compliance coverage in the industry 
to meet evolving regulatory needs, creating broader economic benefit and oppor -
tunity in local markets on six continents. With Project Natick, we even innovated 
beyond land, experimenting with a full-scale subsea, zero emissions datacenter 
with the promise of setting new standards for datacenter provisioning, latency and 
sustainability.
We added nearly 500 new Azure capabilities in the past year alone, focused on both 
existing workloads and new workloads such as IoT and Edge AI. IoT is transforming 
the rules of manufacturing, retail, and oil and gas — fueling cloud and edge inno -
vation, accelerating the evolution of digital factories and enhancing supply-chain 
performance. Azure IoT and Azure Stack — a first-of-its-kind cloud-to-edge solu -
tion — enable customers and partners to build IoT solutions that run at the edge, 
so people from the factory floor to the retail store to the oil rig can manage devices 
and analyze data in real time. We introduced Azure Sphere, another first-of-its-kind, 
highly secure edge solution that combines chip design, an IoT operating system 
and a cloud service to secure the more than 9 billion microcontroller-powered 
devices entering the market each year — from kitchen appliances to industrial 
equipment. It’s an incredible example of how we are helping our customers realize 
the promise of a world of connected devices and things. And, our ambition extends 
beyond today’s computers to quantum computing to take us beyond the limitations 
of traditional, transistor-based computers and enable entirely new scenarios. We 
first unveiled our vision for quantum last year, and we are already seeing custom -
ers apply our quantum-inspired algorithms to address some of their most pressing 
challenges.
Data and AI
Our customers will increasingly need to build their own AI to extract insights from 
the ever-increasing amount of data they collect — and we are investing to make 
Azure the best cloud for their comprehensive data estates. We are democratizing 
data science and AI with Azure Cognitive Services, Azure Machine Learning and 
data services such as Azure Cosmos DB — the first globally distributed, multi-model 
database — to help organizations of all sizes convert their data into insights and 
experiences for competitive advantage. In less than a year, Azure Cosmos DB has 
already exceeded $100 million in annualized revenue. Azure Database for MySQL 
and PostgreSQL makes it even easier to bring open source-powered applications to 
Azure, expanding our opportunity in this space. And we are seeing rapid customer 
adoption of Azure Databricks for data preparation, advanced analytics and machine 
learning scenarios. We are leading in the field of AI research, achieving human pari -
ty with object recognition, speech recognition, machine reading and — this year — 
language translation. But that is not enough. We are committed to translating these 
breakthroughs into toolsets our customers can use. Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report12Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
More than 1 million developers have already used our Cognitive Services to quickly 
and easily create AI applications. Our Azure Bot Service has nearly 300,000 develop -
ers, and we are driving new advances in our underlying cloud infrastructure, building 
the world’s first AI supercomputer in Azure. Microsoft Translator brings AI-powered 
translation to developers where their data is, whether in the cloud or on the edge. 
Our pending acquisition of GitHub recognizes the increasingly vital role developers 
will play in value creation and growth across every industry, and will enable us to 
bring our tools and services to new audiences while enabling GitHub to grow and 
retain its developer-first ethos.
Gaming
We are pursuing an expansive opportunity in gaming — from the way games are 
created and distributed to how they are played and viewed — surpassing $10 billion 
in revenue this year for the first time. We are investing aggressively in content, 
community and cloud services across every endpoint to expand usage and deepen 
engagement with gamers. Xbox Live now has 57 million monthly active users, and 
we are investing in new services like Mixer — which blurs the line between watching 
and playing — and Game Pass, our new unlimited subscription service. The addition 
of five new gaming studios this year bolsters our first-party content development to 
support our fast-growing gaming services. And our acquisition of PlayFab acceler -
ates our vision to build a world-class cloud platform for the gaming industry across 
mobile, PC and console. I’m excited about our opportunity in the fast-growing $100 
billion gaming market and what’s to come.
At a time when digital technology is transforming every industry and every part of 
our daily life and work, our customers are increasingly looking for a partner whose 
business interests are fundamentally aligned with their own. At Microsoft, our cus -
tomers’ interests are core to our success. That is what engenders trust.
This commitment extends to instilling trust in technology across everything we do. 
We believe that privacy is a fundamental human right, which is why compliance is 
deeply embedded in all our processes and practices. We extended the data subject 
rights that are at the heart of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) to all our 
customers around the world, not just those in the European Union, and advocated 
for the passage of the CLOUD Act  in the U.S.
Cybersecurity is the central challenge of the digital age, and we are innovating to 
provide end-to-end security for our customers with security operations at global 
scale that analyze more than 6.5 trillion security signals each day, enterprise-class 
technology, and broad cybersecurity partnerships for an increasingly complex 
and heterogeneous world. We led the Cybersecurity Tech Accord , which has been 
signed by 61 global organizations, and are calling on governments to do more 
to make the internet safe. We announced the Defending Democracy Program  to 
work with governments around the world to help safeguard voting, and introduced 
AccountGuard  to offer advanced cybersecurity protections to political campaigns in 
the U.S.
And, as we make advancements in AI, we are asking ourselves tough questions — 
like not only what computers can do, but what should they do. That’s why we are 
investing in tools for detecting and addressing bias in AI systems and advocating 
for thoughtful government regulation.
We also have a responsibility as a company to empower everyone to fully partici -
pate in our society and economy using technology. We are working with govern -
ments, the private sector and local nonprofit organizations around the world toTrust and responsibilityMicrosoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report13Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
make this vision a reality. We donated more than $1.4 billion in software and ser -
vices in fiscal 2018, via Microsoft Philanthropies, helping nonprofits get access to 
the technology they need to drive greater impact, and in calendar year 2017 our 
employees donated a record $158 million (including company match) through our 
employee giving program to support nonprofits in local communities.
We are putting AI tools into the hands of change-makers to address society’s most 
pressing challenges with new programs like AI for Earth , a five-year, $50M commit -
ment to environmental sustainability, and AI for Accessibility  to benefit the more 
than 1 billion people with disabilities around the world. I am inspired by how teams 
across Microsoft are galvanized around inclusive design and accessibility — and 
producing tangible results, with new features and offerings for Microsoft 365, Office 
365, Windows and Xbox designed to meet the needs of people with disabilities.
Finally, we know that the jobs of today will not be the jobs of tomorrow and are 
investing to provide today’s workforce and future generations with the digital skills 
they will need to succeed, partnering with nonprofit organizations across 54 coun -
tries to provide computer science learning experiences to millions of young people 
around the world and expanding our TEALS program  in high schools across the U.S.
I’m proud of our progress, and I’m proud of the more than 100,000 Microsoft em -
ployees around the world who are focused on our customers’ success in this new 
era. We have long recognized that the health, wellbeing and diversity of our em -
ployees help Microsoft succeed. That’s why we provide industry-leading benefits for 
our employees, including comprehensive health and wellness programs for families, 
paid vacation, paid sick leave and paid time off for new parents. We were one of the 
first companies to require our U.S. suppliers doing substantial business with us to 
provide paid time off for their employees. And this year we took a further step to 
ensure that these suppliers also provide their employees with paid parental leave.
Over the past year, we have made progress in building a diverse and inclusive 
culture where everyone can do their best work. Since FY16, we have nearly doubled 
the number of women corporate vice presidents at Microsoft — both overall and in 
technical roles. We’ve increased African American/Black and Hispanic/Latino repre -
sentation by 33 percent. And this past fiscal year more than half of our U.S. interns 
were women or African American/Black and Hispanic/Latino. We must keep pushing 
to do more, and representation is only one measure of progress. Creating a diverse 
and inclusive workplace at Microsoft is everyone’s job. And this year we increased 
our commitment, ensuring that every leader and employee prioritizes diversity and 
inclusion as part of our annual performance review process.
In closing, we will continue to create local opportunity, growth and impact in every 
community and country around the world. We will continue to invest in the largest 
growth opportunities and innovate boldly to serve our customers. We will continue 
to help our customers build digital capability, so they can grow and thrive — to -
day and long into the future. We will continue to work to instill trust in technology 
across everything we do, to advocate for customer privacy, drive industry-wide 
cybersecurity initiatives and champion ethical AI. And we will continue to transform 
our culture to reflect the diverse customers we serve around the world, while hold -
ing fast to our timeless values.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report14Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Our approach
Last spring, I visited our AI School in Paris, France, which we started earlier this year 
to provide immersive training to help close the skills gap. Students from different 
backgrounds and walks of life, with no prior technical experience, are learning new 
data science skills. They take an intense seven month class, followed by an appren -
ticeship at one of our local partners — and are ready for new careers in AI and 
data science. While there, I met Cassandra Delage, a young entrepreneur with an 
ambitious dream of reimagining recycling. Her company, Plast’if, has created what 
might be best described as a “recycling vending machine.” You take plastic, put it in 
the machine, and it’s converted into a useful object you can take with you. She built 
it with students at the AI School, creating an ML model that recognizes the plastic, 
deploying it on an inexpensive computer and then integrating it with a 3-D printer 
— turning her novel idea into reality.
It’s just one example of how technology can help create new opportunity and build 
a better future for everyone.
And it’s just the start — I could not be more optimistic about what’s yet to come. 
Satya Nadella
Chief Executive Officer
October 16, 2018  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report15
Privacy and data security16
Accessibility19
Digital skills and career pathways21
Responsible sourcing25
Human rights28
Our employees31Empowering peopleMicrosoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report16Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Privacy and data security
We recognize privacy as a fundamental human right. We work to preserve our 
customers’ ability to control their data and make informed choices to protect their 
privacy.
Our commitment and approach Microsoft product development and privacy practices focus on six key privacy 
principles.
User control
We put users in control of their privacy with easy-to-use tools and clear choices.
Legal protections 
We respect local privacy laws and fight for the protection of users’ privacy as a 
fundamental human right.
Transparency 
We’re transparent about data collection and use so users can make informed 
decisions.
No content-based targeting
We don’t use email, chat, files, or other personal content to target ads.
Security
We protect the data that users entrust to us through strong security and encryption.
User benefits
When we do collect data, we use it to benefit you and your experiences.
Learn more about our privacy principles  
FY18 highlights We’re driving compliance across our cloud, helping users view and control their 
activity, and engaging with stakeholders on the future or artificial intelligence.
GDPR and privacy 
Microsoft is committed to making sure that our products and services comply with 
GDPR. We provide our commercial customers with robust tools, backed up by 
contractual commitments, to help them comply. We are also extending GDPR Data 
Subject Rights to all our consumer customers around the world. 
Learn about our approach  
Promoting online civility for teens 
The Council for Digital Good discusses the state of online civility today and shares 
how digital interactions could be safer and healthier for everyone.  
Learn more about the council  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report17Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
FY18 reporting resources Law Enforcement Requests Report
This semi-annual report provides information about the legal demands for 
customer data we receive from law enforcement agencies around the world, as well 
as our responses to them.  
US National Security Orders Report
This semi-annual report provides the data we’re legally allowed to share about 
demands for customer data we receive from the US government pursuant to 
national security laws, as well as our responses to them.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Index Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.New Data Protection Officer 
In March 2018, Microsoft appointed Steve May as its European Data Protection 
Officer (DPO). In his role Steve represents our customers’ data protection needs 
and rights in assessing Microsoft’s data processing and supports engagements 
with European regulators relating to data protection matters.
Learn more in the blog  
Improved privacy dashboard 
Microsoft added new capabilities to its web-based privacy dashboard that allows 
users to see and control their online activity data. The dashboard allows users to 
view—and choose to clear—data Microsoft collects, including voice, apps and 
services, browsing & search history, and location activity.
Visit the privacy dashboard  
The Future Computed 
We released a new book, The Future Computed: Artificial Intelligence and its role in 
society. In the book, we identify six ethical principles—fairness, reliability and safety, 
privacy and security, inclusivity, transparency, and accountability—to guide the 
development and use of AI. 
Learn more about the book  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report18Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Get the bigger picture Explore key resources to learn more about our work in privacy and data security.
 
 
Microsoft privacy
Access more information on our privacy principles, the common categories of data 
we collect, and additional links to product and service-specific privacy information 
and controls.
Explore the privacy site  
Privacy statement
The Microsoft privacy statement explains what personal data we collect from users 
and how we use it.
Review the statement  
Microsoft Trust Center
The Trust Center provides enterprise and business customers information on how 
Microsoft protects their data across our cloud services, including how we can help 
organizations comply with GDPR.
Visit the Trust Center   
A Cloud for Global Good
Our policy roadmap covers a range of policy areas and provides a comprehensive 
set of recommendations and considerations mapped to a trusted, responsible, and 
inclusive cloud.
Visit the cloud policy roadmap  
Security
From individuals to enterprise businesses, we’re committed to helping our 
customers get secure—and stay secure—in a world of persistent cyberthreats.
Visit our Microsoft Secure site  
Security blog
The Microsoft Secure blog is the place to go for in-depth articles on our products 
and services, as well as tips and recommendations for improving security in your 
organization.
Visit the blog    Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report19Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Accessibility
At Microsoft, we believe there is no limit to what people can achieve. Especially 
when technology reflects the diversity of its users and is accessible to all.
Our commitment and approach Microsoft is committed to designing products and services that can be used by 
everyone.
Over one billion people in the world have a disability. We’re passionate about 
ensuring that our products and services are designed for all people. The Microsoft 
Accessibility Standards are a company-wide policy that drives consideration for 
accessibility into every stage of production, including design, development, evalua -
tion, and release.
We’ve found that many of our accessibility-focused innovations and features allow 
us to deliver richer, more flexible experiences for a wider range of users—not just 
those with disabilities. We’re committed to transparency, accountability, and inclu -
sion in our products and our culture, and we’re deeply inspired by the opportunity 
to work with people across the globe to explore what’s possible.
FY18 highlights We’re building a diverse workforce through inclusive hiring programs and creating 
products that work for everyone.
 
 
Expanding accessibility features 
We are committed to delivering technologies that empower all people to achieve 
more and have released significant accessibility enhancements in our latest 
products.
Discover the new features  
Driving innovation 
We continue to push the limits of what’s possible with AI to empower empower 
people with disabilities through new innovations such as Seeing AI , Eye Control on 
Windows 10 , Xbox Adaptive Controller , and Translator .
Explore AI for Accessibility  
Inclusive hiring programs 
To build the best products for everyone, we need to have a diverse and inclusive 
workforce. Our inclusive hiring programs work to make that happen.
Learn about our hiring programs  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report20Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
FY18 reporting resources Providing conformance statements
Microsoft provides conformance statements for global standards including section 
508 requirements, EN 301 549 standard, and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. 
We have also embraced the Trusted Tester program, developed by DHS’s Office of 
Accessible Systems & Technology.
Learn more about Trusted Tester  
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Get the bigger picture Learn more about our commitment to designing products and services that work 
for everyone.
Microsoft accessibility
Find information on our accessibility programs, product features, guides, and addi -
tional resources.
Visit the accessibility site  
Developer resources
Explore tools and information you can use to create the next generation of accessi -
ble technology.
Discover developer resources  
Inclusive hiring
Learn about our inclusive hiring programs and apply for accessibility-related job 
openings.
Learn about inclusive hiring   
Inclusive design
See how we’re evolving our design system to operate in a complex world.
Learn about inclusive design  
Microsoft accessibility feedback
Share your ideas on what products, features, and tools would delight you, or vote 
for ideas you see posted by others.
Provide accessibility feedback  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report21Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Digital skills and career 
pathways
We believe in a future where every person has the skills, knowledge, and 
opportunity to achieve more.
Impact at a glance 13,000 students received computer science education through our TEALS program.
12 million young people have participated in computer science learning experienc -
es through 97 nonprofits in 54 countries.
50,000 workers to receive access to in-demand skills and job opportunities through 
the Markle Foundation by 2020.
96 million learners around the world have participated in Minecraft Tutorial ses -
sions since 2015.
Our commitment and approach We’re working to ensure that everyone has access to the opportunities created by 
technology.
 
 
Digital skills
In a world being transformed by technology, all youth should have access to digital 
skills. From basic digital literacy to advanced computer science, learning digital skills 
provides young people an opportunity to develop creativity, critical thinking, and 
problem-solving skills. We partner with nonprofits, governments, educators, and 
businesses to reach young people who are least likely to have access to computer 
science education. Our approach includes:
• Strengthening the ability of nonprofit organizations and schools to offer computer science 
education
• Bringing CS to every young personThrough cash grants, technology, and resources, we support in-school programs like Technology 
Education and Literacy in Schools (TEALS) and nonprofits like Code.org, to help increase the 
number of young people who have access to computer science education.
In partnership with Code.org and others, we encourage US states to provide access to computer 
science (CS) education and count CS courses toward math and science credits required for 
graduation.
Get started with CS advocacy  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report22Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Career pathways
As technology transforms the world, it is also reshaping the way we work and 
increasing the skills gap. In the United States, nearly two-thirds of companies report 
having positions for which they cannot find qualified applicants, and millions are 
under- or unemployed. To meet the challenge, we must create a skills-based labor 
market that connects people and employers in new ways. Our approach includes:
• Increasing access to learning resources
• Engaging employers• Generating excitement and demand for computer science education
To succeed in the modern economy, workers need access to learning resources to gain the 
skills required for in-demand jobs. LinkedIn Learning enables lifelong learning while connecting 
workers to jobs.
Access LinkedIn Learning  
Skills-based hiring and apprenticeships help companies find and retain qualified people by 
increasing employer connections to skilled candidates and creating pathways for workers.
Learn about Microsoft apprenticeships  We work with more than 150 nonprofit organizations across 60 countries to help engage over 
three million young people with computer science learning experiences. Together with our 
partners, we’re ensuring young people are ready for the future, especially those who might not 
otherwise have access to developing these critical skills.
Find our partners  
Learn more about our impact  
• Advocating for change
At Microsoft, we’re working toward scalable solutions and partnerships that can be replicated 
successfully across the globe, including our partnership with Lumina Foundation and the 
Credential EngineTM.
Learn more about credentialing  
Learn more about our approach to career pathways  
FY18 highlights Discover how Microsoft creates opportunities for everyone to succeed in the digital 
economy.
Pathways to 21st century jobs
In partnership with the Markle Foundation, Microsoft is helping 50,000 workers 
adapt to the changing workplace by providing access to in-demand skills and job 
opportunities. We also provide states and employers with the tools and data they 
need to create and sustain skills-based hiring initiatives.
Learn more about our efforts  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report23Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Our global impact  
In more than 60 countries around the world, we support nonprofit organizations 
and education institutions in their efforts to create opportunities for all young peo -
ple to become future ready.
Find our nonprofit partners   
Encouraging girls to pursue STEM
More than 80 percent of the students benefitting from YouthSpark grants and 
partnerships are from underserved communities, and more than half are female. In 
2018, we set out to understand more about why girls lose interest in STEM and what 
we can do about it.
Explore our research  
Advancing students with TEALS
In 2017, Technology Education and Literacy in Schools (TEALS) paired over 1000 
volunteers from over 500 companies with classroom teachers in 344 high schools 
in 29 states and the District of Columbia—bringing computer science education to 
over 12,000 students.
Become a TEALS volunteer  
FY18 reporting resources Donations and volunteerism factsheet (PDF)
Download a report of our donation and volunteerism investments over the past 
three fiscal years.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting 
our commitments. We collect and provide share these reports in one place for easy 
reference and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Get the bigger picture Explore these key resources to learn more about our work empowering people 
around the globe.
Encouraging girls to pursue STEM and computer science
Understand more about why girls lose interest in STEM and what we can do about 
it.
Review the research  
Career pathways
Creating opportunities for everyone to succeed in the digital economy.
Learn more about digital skills  
Microsoft Philanthropies
We believe technology can provide endless opportunity and Microsoft Philanthro -
pies works to create a future where everyone has access to these opportunities.
Explore our philanthropic work   Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report24Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
TEALS
A grassroots volunteer-based program, Technology Education and Literary (TEALS) 
helps high schools build and grow a sustainable computer science program.
Learn more about TEALS  
Airband Initiative
We partner with equipment makers, internet and energy access providers, and 
local entrepreneurs, to make affordable broadband access a reality for communities 
around the world.
Learn more about this effort  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report25Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Our commitment and approach We set high standards for our suppliers and collaborate with them to positively 
impact their workers, their local communities, and their business operations.
Microsoft has relationships with thousands of suppliers around the globe, span -
ning both hardware suppliers that manufacture our devices and components, and 
indirect suppliers that provide everything from advertising services to building 
construction and maintenance.
We expect all suppliers who do business with Microsoft to uphold the human rights, 
labor, health and safety, environmental, and business ethics practices prescribed in 
our Supplier Code of Conduct . This code aligns with, and exceeds, the Responsible 
Business Alliance (RBA), formerly Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, responsi -
ble supply chain standards. The Supplier Code of Conduct is included in all our sup -
plier contracts and Microsoft Social and Environmental Accountability (SEA) require -
ments are also incorporated into our hardware and packaging supplier contracts.
Since 2005, Microsoft Devices operated an industry-leading Responsible Sourc -
ing, formerly Social and Environmental Accountability, program to ensure that our 
hardware and packaging suppliers conform to our Supplier Code of Conduct and 
additional device-related requirements for living conditions, safe working practices, 
and environmental, health, and safety protection.
The Microsoft Global Procurement Group created a formal responsible sourcing 
function in 2013 to consolidate and enhance its responsible sourcing activities with 
our indirect suppliers.
We advance our responsible sourcing commitments through:
• Analysis of risks and opportunities
• Assurance and accountability 
• Capacity building 
• Shared value and advancement of the Sustainable Development Goals  set by the UN to improve 
people’s quality of life, protect the environment, and foster equitable growth.
Learn more about our approach to responsible sourcing  Responsible sourcing
At Microsoft, we work to ensure that our suppliers are socially, legally, and ethically 
responsible—and treat the people who work for them fairly and with dignity.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report26Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
FY18 highlights Microsoft continues to focus on business and human rights, and acts as a cata -
lyst for others who are participating in these efforts, in the technology sector and 
beyond.
Responsible sourcing
We’ve built an Audit Management System (AMS) to continue to transform how 
we embed compliance and sustainability into our business. Using Microsoft Power 
BI, we can track performance and enable continuous supply chain improvements 
throughout the SEA stages.
 Download FY18 program report (PDF)
SEA Academy  
Our Social and Environmental Accountability (SEA) Academy online and mobile 
platform will enable us to scale learning more efficiently both internally and across 
our suppliers.
Worker hotline
Our Worker Hotline program continues to provide a voice for workers to privately 
and safely express issues and concerns and achieve issue resolution in all our Tier 1 
and select Tier 2 suppliers.
Children out of mining
We continue to grow our partnership with Pact to address child labor in the Dem -
ocratic Republic of the Congo. The program has received international recognition 
and has reduced child labor by 97 percent over the course of the project to date.
Learn about PACT  
Raw materials to their origins  
To identify and prioritize risk, we completed our mapping of the origination of key 
raw materials that are used in our complex and global upstream supply chain.
Supplier diversity
We expanded our supplier diversity program to include a focus on LGBTQ-owned 
businesses. In FY18, Microsoft spent more than $3 billion with minority-, disabled-, 
veteran-, LGBTQ-, and woman-owned businesses, ranking among the top 20 com -
panies for spending with diverse-owned suppliers globally.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report27Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
FY18 reporting resources Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (PDF)
Download our report to learn about the actions we’re taking to prevent modern 
slavery and human trafficking in our business and supply chain.
Devices sustainability report (PDF)
See the key results of our Responsible Sourcing, and Social and Environmental 
Accountability audits and assessments in the downloadable FY18 Devices 
sustainability report.
Conflict Minerals Report (PDF)
Download the detailed results of our latest annual conflict minerals due diligence 
process and findings.
Production Supplier List (PDF)
Each year, Microsoft publishes a downloadable list of our top 100 production suppli -
ers for our commercially available devices.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Get the bigger picture Explore more responsible sourcing resources.
Responsible sourcing
Get more detailed information on the policies and programs related to our commit -
ment to responsible sourcing.
Learn about the programs  
Microsoft Supplier Code of Conduct  
Access our Supplier Code of Conduct in multiple languages and explore links to 
related resources including our Supplier Code of Conduct training program.
Explore our supplier standards  
Raw materials policy 
Learn more about our raw materials sourcing strategy and associated programs.
 Download PDF about our policy
Supplier diversity
Get an overview of our Supplier Diversity Program and access links to resources, 
including a tool for diverse suppliers to register their interest in working with Micro -
soft.
Learn about supplier diversity  
Microsoft sustainable devices
Explore our approach and commitment to producing environmentally sustainable 
devices.
Learn about sustainable devices  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report28Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Human rights
We aim to respect human rights in the way we do business, and to advance those 
rights with the power of technology.
Our commitment and approach Microsoft aspires to leadership in business and human rights, and to serve as a 
catalyst for action by others—in the technology sector and beyond.
Class-leading due diligence
We aim to conduct best-in-class human rights impact assessments on our salient 
human rights actions, and emerging trends in business and human rights.
Rights-aware decision making
We’re deploying an integrated approach to human rights decision making across 
key aspects of Microsoft. 
Proactive engagement
We use actions and public statements to demonstrate that Microsoft is an import -
ant voice, and advocate for the promotion of human rights.
Transparent leadership
We’re advancing transparency in our work and promoting human rights through 
increased disclosure and engagement.
FY18 highlights The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Global Network 
Initiative Principles on Freedom of Expression and Privacy steer our human rights 
work.
Global human rights standards
We’ve updated our Global Human Rights Statement, increased organizational 
partnerships, and operationalized our human rights commitments through employ -
ee training and other due diligence activities. We’ve also implemented policies to 
ensure we have responsible and lawful access to customer data.
Learn our global human rights efforts  
Empowering the UN
We’re working with the UN Human Rights Office to help them develop technology 
to predict, analyze, and respond to human rights situations. We’re also collabo -
rating on joint projects and have provided a multi-million dollar grant to support 
ongoing efforts.
Learn about our partnership  
AI and human rights
Artificial intelligence (AI) can improve life in many ways and help solve socie -
tal problems but AI comes with both challenges and opportunities. We need to 
address the challenges together with shared responsibility. Our book, The Future 
Computed, outlines the future of responsible AI technology.
Learn about The Future Computed  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report29Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Collaborating with UC Berkeley
Integrating critical human rights issues directly into education can generate inno -
vative approaches to managing our responsibilities and may help create the next 
generation of ethical leaders. We’re partnering with UC Berkeley to provide annual 
conferences, student consulting projects, and other collaborative efforts.
Learn how we’re working together  
Strengthening cybersecurity
The Digital Geneva Convention is a framework to help protect and defend civilians 
against nation-sponsored cyberattacks, including tech-accord and a potential bind -
ing agreement.
Learn about our cybersecurity efforts  
FY18 reporting resources Microsoft Annual Human Rights Report (PDF)
Using the United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, we provide de -
tailed disclosures for each of our salient human rights issues and activities through a 
downloadable report.
GNI Assessment 2015/2016 (PDF)
Download the Global Network Initiative Public Report on the 2015/2016 Indepen -
dent Company Assessments.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (PDF)
Download the report to learn about the actions we’ve taken to prevent modern 
slavery and human trafficking in our business and supply chain.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report30Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Get the bigger picture Explore key resources to learn more about our Global Human Rights Statement, our 
salient human rights issues, and our bi-annual digital trust reports.
Global Human Rights Statement
We have committed to ensuring that our employees, partners, and suppliers respect 
and promote human rights, and that technology plays a positive role across the 
globe.
Learn more about our commitment  
Accessibility
We create and deliver technology that is accessible and functional for people of all 
abilities.
Learn more about accessibility  
Freedom of expression and privacy
We respect peoples’ right to freedom of expression and their right to freedom from 
arbitrary and unlawful interference with privacy online.
Learn about freedom of expression  
Online safety
We provide tools and resources to protect the online safety and security of vulnera -
ble groups.
Find online safety resources  
Privacy and data security
We’re incorporating privacy considerations into design and development processes, 
offering customers meaningful privacy choices, and responsibly collecting, manag -
ing, and using the customer data that we store.
Discover our approach to privacy  
Digital trust reports
We provide transparency in our bi-annual Law Enforcement Requests Report, US 
National Security Orders Report, and Content Removal Requests Report.
Explore our latest reports  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report31Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Empowering our 
employees
At Microsoft, we’re focused on bringing out the best in people, supporting their 
goals, and allowing them to find deep meaning in their work.
Our commitment and approach At Microsoft, we strive to create a respectful, rewarding, diverse, and inclusive work 
environment that enables our employees to create products and services that help 
others achieve more.
Our culture
One of the most important drivers of our success is our culture. We fundamentally 
believe that we need a growth mindset culture. This starts with the belief that every -
one can grow and develop; potential is nurtured, not predetermined; and anyone 
can change their mindset.
Learn more about our mission and culture  
Respecting human rights
Our Global Human Rights Statement, and participation as a signatory to the UN 
Global Compact, demonstrate our commitment to respecting the following human 
rights covenants and declarations:
Universal Declaration of Human Rights  
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights  
International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights  
International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work*  
Total rewards
We develop dynamic, sustainable, and strategic programs that generate trust in our 
employees and enable them to do their best work. These programs reinforce our 
culture and values. The result is a global performance and development approach 
that fosters our growth mindset culture, competitive compensation that proactively 
ensures equitable pay by role, and distinctive benefits that delight our employees.
Learn more about our benefits  
Diversity and inclusion
At Microsoft, Global Diversity & Inclusion is more than a program, it is a core aspect 
of our evolving culture that helps us fulfill our mission. We seek out different per -
spectives that represent various aspects of the world around us and each employee 
is accountable to actively learn and engage each other’s strengths, experiences, and 
viewpoints to inform, challenge, and stretch our thinking. As a result, we create rich -
er work experiences, stronger ideas, more impactful products, and better customer 
experiences.
Learn more about global diversity and inclusion at Microsoft  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report32Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
Training and development
To support our growth mindset culture and meet the learning needs of our em -
ployees around the world, we offer a diverse range of learning and development 
opportunities. We believe training can be more than formal instruction, and our 
training philosophy focuses on providing the right learning, at the right time, in the 
right way. Opportunities include:
• Personalized, integrated, and relevant views of all learning opportunities on Microsoft Learning 
and LinkedIn Learning.
• In-the-classroom learning and sharing with learner boards. 
• On-the-job “stretch” opportunities for advancement.
• Frequent promotion opportunities.
• Coaching on career development through ongoing manager connections.
• Customized manager training to enhance coaching and mentoring skills.
• New employee orientation covering a range of topics including company values, culture, and 
Standards of Business Conduct .
Wellness and safety
Microsoft is committed to supporting our employees’ well-being with comprehen -
sive benefits to help employees maximize their physical, financial, and social well -
ness. In addition, our Occupational Health and Safety program integrates appropri -
ate practices into our operations and works for continual improvement in employee 
health and safety. As part of this commitment:
• Professionals assess the safety risks of work activities and engage with workers and management 
to implement safe work practices, hazard controls, and training to minimize safety risks.
• New and existing workspaces are periodically assessed to ensure they are constructed with sound 
design-for-safety principles and that controls are implemented effectively.
• Microsoft involves employees and managers in Health and Safety Committees specific to our 
datacenters, retail operations, and office locations where required. 
Learn more about our commitment to safe and productive workplaces  
*Those ILO principles are freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 
bargaining; elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor; effective abolition of child labor; and 
elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report33Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
FY18 highlights In 2018, we deepened our commitment to diversity and inclusion, offered our em -
ployees valuable training, and found better ways to support both them and their 
loved ones.
Employee feedback counts
Nearly 90% of employees participated in our annual engagement survey—93% said 
they’re proud to work for Microsoft and 89% said they’d recommend it as a great 
place to work. We also collected over 75,000 Daily Pulse responses and worked with 
leadership to address employee concerns.
Ethical business decision making
All Microsoft employees must complete annual Standards of Business Conduct 
training. The training course is available in 16 languages and in FY18 we achieved a 
course completion rate greater than 99 percent.
Learn about the standards  
Committed to diversity and inclusion
To engage the diverse and dynamic emerging workforce—we build excitement for 
STEM, seek out non-traditional talent sources, commit to inclusive behaviors, and 
inspire our people to enhance their awareness, curiosity, and courage.
Learn more about our approach  
Global family leave
Microsoft offers generous paid family leave to employees worldwide. Employees get 
a minimum of 20 weeks paid parental leave for birth parents and six weeks for non-
birth parents. There’s also caregiver leave, which allows employees up to four weeks 
of paid leave to care for an immediate family member.
Review the announcement  
Perspectives
We introduced a new approach to feedback called Perspectives, which was built 
using learnings from neuroscience and social psychology. Perspectives aims to 
improve how we ask for, share, and receive high-quality feedback to enable our 
growth mindset and better embrace our culture.
Learn more about Perspectives  
Global health and safety
Our commitment to health and safety spans the globe. In 2018, Microsoft opera -
tions in the United Kingdom achieved recertification of ISO18001 with no non-con -
formances—and operations in Spain received annual, government-issued cash 
health and safety bonuses for the ninth consecutive year.
Learn about our commitment  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report34Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources Empowering people
FY18 reporting resources Workforce demographics
The demographics of our workforce will continue to serve as a measure of our 
progress toward a more diverse and inclusive Microsoft, and our contribution to the 
diversity of the tech industry at large.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Get the bigger picture We offer many key resources to help visitors gain a more comprehensive under -
standing of our commitment to empowering our employees.
Microsoft careers
Microsoft is looking for the best and brightest talent. We invite candidates of all 
abilities to come as they are and do what they love.
Explore Microsoft careers  
Diverse perspectives 
Microsoft applies diversity and inclusion values to all we do. From hiring and facili -
ties, to everyday interactions and innovations. 
Learn more about our approach  
Microsoft Life 
Find stories on how employees are empowered by the company culture to follow 
their passions, make a difference in the world, and live a #MicrosoftLife.
Explore the Microsoft Life site  
Inclusive hiring
To build the best products for everyone, we need to have a diverse and inclusive 
workforce across all abilities. Through our inclusive hiring program, we work to -
wards that goal every day.
Learn about inclusive hiring  
Global Human Rights Statement
Our Global Human Rights Statement and participation in the UN Global Compact, 
are part of our commitment to respecting human rights covenants and declarations.
Review the statement  
Employee stories
Explore the technology and innovations Microsoft employees around the world are 
creating, from “solving” cancer to tracking down cybercriminals.
Check out our stories  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report35
Empowering nonprofits36
Humanitarian action39
Public policy engagement41
Local engagement45Strengthening communitiesMicrosoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report36Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
Empowering nonprofits
Microsoft is committed to helping nonprofits advance their missions through digital 
transformation enabled by secure and trusted technology.
$1.4 billion in software and services donated to nonprofits worldwide.
196,385 nonprofits have been served to date.
$158 million donated by employees in 2017 (including company match).Impact at a glance
Our commitment and approach We work closely with nonprofit organizations around the world to help them accel -
erate their organizational transformation with technology.
Technology for Social Impact
Technology can be a powerful tool to help solve the world’s most challenging is -
sues. It can enable nonprofit organizations to be more productive, more innovative, 
and ultimately, to drive greater societal impact.
We’re committed to delivering technology solutions that are accessible, affordable, 
and relevant for nonprofits everywhere. Donations and discounts are available for 
cloud solutions including Microsoft 365, Office 365, Power BI, and Azure. Hardware 
discounts are also available on Microsoft Surface devices.
With the goal of reaching over 300,000 nonprofits in the next three years, the Mi -
crosoft partner ecosystem is critical to our success. We’re developing partnerships 
to provide relevant nonprofit technology solutions and services critical to helping 
nonprofits scale and drive greater impact around the world.
Learn more about our nonprofit offers  
Hack for Good
Hack for Good is a community of Microsoft employees with a passion for applying 
technical and business skills to some of the world’s most pressing societal problems. 
Previous projects have included a tool for disrupting sex trafficking, a PhotoDNA 
cloud service, and an app to transform the foster care system.
Learn more about Hack for Good  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report37Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
Employee giving 
Microsoft employees are passionate about giving time, money, and skill to address 
the issues facing our world. It’s part of our culture and how we live our mission. The 
employee giving program focuses on giving in three 
primary ways:
• Money: Our employees support a wide range of organizations they feel personally connected to, 
and in the United States, Microsoft matches those donations dollar-for-dollar.
• Time: Many of our employees help nonprofits and schools achieve their missions faster by do -
nating their time and professional skills. Microsoft matches every volunteer hour with a monetary 
donation to the organization.
• Products: When our employees purchase our products and donate them to nonprofits, Microsoft 
matches these in-kind donations, amplifying the impact of our technology. 
Check out our employees in action  
We’ve surpassed our commitment to nonprofit cloud services donations, and our 
employees have raised record breaking donation amounts for global nonprofits.
‘No one should be left behind’ 
In 2016, Microsoft Philanthropies committed to donating $1 billion in cloud com -
puting resources to 70,000 nonprofit organizations over three years. By the end 
of 2017, we’d surpassed that goal and committed to service more than 300,000 
nonprofits around the globe. 
Explore our impact letter  
Technology for Social Impact
We see the potential for nonprofits to leverage digital innovation to address the 
world’s most pressing issues. In 2017, we announced our Technology for Social 
Impact group which will be dedicated to serving nonprofit organizations worldwide 
and helping them move to the cloud.
Learn more about the group   
Medical Teams International
Medical Teams International leverages an app built on Azure to revolutionize the 
way that it works and dramatically increase the speed and accuracy of diagnosis 
and treatment for more than 1 million patients in Uganda. 
Learn more about MTI  
Employee giving and volunteerism
Microsoft matches employee donations of time and money to nonprofit organi -
zations of their choice. In 2017, employees raised a record-breaking $150 million 
(including company match)—bringing total giving since 1983 to more than $1 billion 
for nonprofits and schools around the globe. 
Learn more about employee giving  FY18 highlightsMicrosoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report38Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
FY18 reporting resources Donations and volunteerism data factsheet (PDF)
Download the factsheet to learn more about our donation and volunteerism invest -
ments over the past three fiscal years.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Get the bigger picture Explore key resources to learn more about our work to empower nonprofits.
Microsoft Philanthropies
We believe that technology provides endless opportunity and Microsoft Philanthro -
pies works to create a future where everyone has access to endless possibilities
Discover our philanthropic work  
Nonprofit offers 
Nonprofits are committed to changing the world and we’re committed to helping 
them make a greater impact through donated and discounted cloud solutions and 
hardware. 
Learn more about our approach  
Employee engagement
Microsoft employees give generously to empower those most in need in our local 
communities and around the world. Employee giving is part of our culture and how 
we live our mission. 
Learn more about our employees  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report39Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
Supporting people and 
communities in need
Technology can play a critical role in helping build stronger more resilient commu -
nities following times of crisis.
Our commitment and approach Microsoft believes technology can play a critical role in helping the world’s most 
vulnerable people recover and rebuild their lives.
Empowering first responders
First responders provide critical services to those affected by natural disasters. 
Microsoft supports first response organizations through technology donations and 
financial support during response and recovery efforts. We also work closely with 
experts to better prepare for and respond to future disasters.
Empowering humanitarian organizations
From front-line aid workers to programs teams, humanitarian organizations pro -
vide a broad spectrum of vital services to vulnerable populations around the world. 
We’re committed to helping humanitarians organizations pursue their missions with 
secure, reliable, and trusted cloud solutions.
Empowering displaced people
Refugees face countless challenges as they flee their homes and countries. We 
partner with nonprofit organizations to provide digital skills resources and training 
to help displaced people begin rebuilding their lives.
FY18 highlights In the wake of some of the worst natural disasters, Microsoft stepped up to assist in 
recovery efforts to those affected.
Hurricane Maria
Following the devastation of Hurricane Irma, Maria brought additional damage to 
the Caribbean. Microsoft provided over $5 million in resources, and the Airband 
Initiative team donated TV White Space kits to support connectivity restoration 
throughout Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Island.
Central Mexico earthquake
Over 200 people were killed when a 7.1 magnitude earthquake struck Mexico City 
and central Mexico. Microsoft provided $700,000 in employee giving and financial 
support, delivered 2.3 million minutes of free Skype calls, and provided emergen -
cy-service teams to assist in the recovery efforts.
Hurricane Harvey
In response to incredible flooding in Texas and the Gulf Coast, Microsoft allocated 
over $2.4 million in resources and activated multiple missions to support local gov -
ernment agencies. In addition, Microsoft employee donation and corporate match -
ing provided $1.4 million to disaster response organizations.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report40Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
FY18 reporting resources Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download..
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Get the bigger picture Explore key resources to learn more about our efforts to strengthen communities.
Humanitarian action
In addition to providing technology resources, Microsoft partners with trusted 
humanitarian organizations that work every day to provide aid and support to dis -
placed people around the world.
Learn more about our partnerships  
Microsoft Philanthropies 
At Microsoft, we believe in a future where every person has the skills, knowledge, 
and opportunity to achieve more. Microsoft Philanthropies works to empower peo -
ple, invest in communities and create systemic change around the world. 
Explore our philanthropic work  
Employee giving
Microsoft matches employee donations of time and money, which can be partic -
ularly helpful during natural disaster scenarios. Every year in October, the Giving 
Campaign makes a significant annual impact in addition to generous giving year-
round. 
Learn more about employee giving  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report41Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
Public policy engagement
Microsoft is proud to be recognized as an engaged leader in accountability and 
transparency in the public policy process.
Our commitment and approach Corporate participation in the public policy process helps to enhance the value we 
provide to shareholders. It is also fundamental to a free and democratic society.
Participation
We strive to ensure that our participation in the political process is open, transpar -
ent, and based on reasons that are clear and justifiable to our shareholders and 
the public. Microsoft and our employees participate in the United States political 
process in a variety of ways.
• Program engagement: We join corporate government affairs programs designed to educate and 
influence elected officials on key public policy issues related to our business. 
• Support: We give individual political employee donations through the Microsoft Political Action 
Committee (MSPAC). 
• Transparency: We’re transparent about data collection and use to allow users to make informed 
decisions.
• Collective action: We help to advance our business objectives through memberships in trade 
associations.
Policy agenda
A “Cloud for Global Good” is our policy roadmap designed to provide lawmakers 
and policy influencers with a set of recommendations to advance the digital trans -
formation opportunities that the cloud presents.
The policy roadmap is grounded in our belief in a future powered by the cloud, and 
our commitment to realize the social and economic benefits of cloud computing for 
everyone. The roadmap covers a range of policy areas and provides a comprehen -
sive set of recommendations and considerations mapped to three core principles: a 
trusted cloud, a responsible cloud, an inclusive cloud.
Review our cloud policy roadmap  
Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) are giving rise to computing systems that can 
see, hear, learn, and reason which creates new opportunities to improve education 
and healthcare, address poverty, and achieve a more sustainable future. Howev -
er, AI also raises complex ethical questions about the impact on society including 
jobs, privacy, inclusiveness, and fairness. To address these issues, we’ve published 
The Future Computed: Artificial intelligence and its role in society  which discusses six 
principles to guide the development and deployment of AI solutions.
Responsible governance
The Regulatory and Public Policy Committee of the Microsoft Board of Directors is 
responsible for overseeing our public policy work and related activities. The com -
mittee receives regular, formal reports. The management of our participation in the 
US political process is the responsibility of the Corporate Vice President for US Gov -
ernment Affairs, who reports directly to Brad Smith, Microsoft President and Chief 
Legal Officer. Brad Smith reports to the company CEO, Satya Nadella.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report42Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
Microsoft Political Action Committee (MSPAC)
The Microsoft Political Action Committee (MSPAC) Steering Committee, a bipartisan 
committee of federal and state government affairs professionals, is responsible for 
oversight and day-to-day decision making related to political spending. Oversight 
of the committee includes disbursements from MSPAC and permissible employee 
and shareholder donations made by the program.
Engagement Principles
Microsoft has adopted Principles for Engagement in the Public Policy Process in 
the United States . These principles address issues specific to the US political and 
fundraising system.
Under these policies, we commit to disclosing a semi-annual list of election cam -
paign expenditures, including financial and in-kind contributions by the company 
and MSPAC to candidates, political parties, political committees, and other political -
ly active tax-exempt organizations, such as those organized under Internal Revenue 
Code section 501(c)(4), as defined by applicable laws.
To uphold our commitment to the transparency of our political spending and 
contributions, we do not make corporate contributions to any non-candidate or 
non-party political committees organized under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue 
Code, which are formed solely to influence elections. We also make no independent 
political expenditures or electioneering communications, as permitted under the US 
Supreme Court’s Citizens United ruling, and we inform our trade associations that 
no Microsoft funds may pay for their independent expenditures or electioneering 
communications.
Transparency in reporting
Microsoft regularly files and publishes reports that detail our public policy advoca -
cy activities. Our disclosures include consultant fees, lobbying expenses, and trade 
association dues spent on advocacy. Please see FY18 reporting resources below.
FY18 highlights Microsoft and our employees participate in the United States political process in a 
variety of ways.
Defending Democracy Program 
In FY18, we announced the Defending Democracy Program to work with govern -
ments globally to help safeguard political campaigns and voting.
Learn about our program  
The CLOUD Act—a big step forward 
The cloud has made privacy issues a practical necessity for technology. We rec -
ognize and accept the responsibility to help protect public safety and preserve 
personal privacy.
Learn more about our approach  
A Cloud for Global Good
In 2018, we released an updated Cloud for Global Good, a policy road map for 
governments, industry, and civil society to consider as they realize the opportunities 
and address the challenges presented by the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
Learn about the updated roadmap  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report43Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
Creating a safer digital world 
As technology continues to reshape the world, the conflicts between nations are no 
longer confined to air, land, and sea. The future of internet cybersecurity will require 
the public and private sector working together over many years.
Learn more in the blog  
CPA-Zicklin Index 
In 2018, the CPA-Zicklin Index named Microsoft as a “Trendsetter” among the S&P 
500 for our leadership in political disclosure and accountability.
Learn more about the index  
FY18 reporting resources US Federal and State advocacy spending (PDF)
Microsoft regularly files and publishes downloadable reports that detail our public 
policy advocacy activities. Our disclosures include consultant fees, lobbying expens -
es, and trade association dues spent on advocacy.
MSPAC and corporate political spending
An outside ethics counsel reviews and approves all Microsoft Political Action Com -
mittee (MSPAC) and corporate political giving activities, filings, reports, and mate -
rials. We publish MSPAC and corporate political spending reports semi-annually on 
our CSR reports hub.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Trade associations expenditures
Microsoft is a member of many trade associations (organized under section 501(c)
(6) of the Internal Revenue Code) in the US to help advance our public policy 
agenda and related business goals. We publicly disclose and annually update a list 
of those trade associations to which Microsoft pays dues and makes other expen -
ditures through our Corporate, External and Legal Affairs (CELA) group. Each year, 
Microsoft inquires and makes a reasonable effort to obtain information about what 
portion of the company’s dues or payments were used for lobbying expenditures 
or political contributions from those associations where our dues and other expen -
ditures total $25,000 or more. Current and archived reports are published on our 
CSR reports hub.
Get the bigger picture Explore key resources to learn more about our engagement in the public policy 
process.
A Cloud for Global Good
Our policy roadmap covers a range of policy areas and provides a comprehensive 
set of recommendations and considerations mapped to a trusted, responsible, and 
inclusive cloud.
Visit the cloud policy roadmap  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report44Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
Public policy principles 
Microsoft has adopted principles for engagement in the public policy process in 
the United States. These principles address issues specific to the U.S. political and 
fundraising systems. 
Learn more about our principles  
Microsoft On the Issues blog
Find news and perspectives on legal, public policy, and Corporate Social Responsi -
bility topics. 
Explore the latest posts  
Microsoft on the Issues Twitter
Get additional news and perspectives from Microsoft on legal, public policy, and 
philanthropic topics. 
Follow @MSFTIssues  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report45Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
Local engagement
We engage in rural and urban communities around the globe to bring greater eco -
nomic opportunities through the power of technology.
Our commitment and approach We engage communities at a local level to bring greater economic opportunities 
through the power of technology.
Microsoft TechSpark
Microsoft TechSpark is a national civic initiative to foster greater opportunity and 
job creation in communities outside of major metropolitan centers in the United 
States. We are developing long-term community partnerships to address their 
unique needs, create a future-ready workforce, and be a catalyst for economic op -
portunity for all Americans. 
The TechSpark initiative focuses on five areas: digital transformation, digital skills 
and computer science education, career pathways, rural broadband, and support 
for nonprofits. We will also support a signature project in each community—a major 
investment designed to help accelerate transformation.
Initially, we are focusing on deep partnership in six communities: Fargo, North 
Dakota; El Paso, Texas; Southern Virginia; the North Central Basin of Washington; 
Northeast Wisconsin; and Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Microsoft Cities
We strive to ensure that our participation in the political process is open, transpar -
ent, and based on reasons that are clear and justifiable to our shareholders and 
the public. Microsoft and our employees participate in the United States political 
process in a variety of ways.
• Program engagement: We join corporate government affairs programs designed to educate and 
influence elected officials on key public policy issues related to our business. 
• Support: We give individual political employee donations through the Microsoft Political Action 
Committee (MSPAC). 
• Transparency: We’re transparent about data collection and use to allow users to make informed 
decisions.
• Collective action: We help to advance our business objectives through memberships in trade 
associations.
Policy agenda
Microsoft Cities works in 10 cities around the United States to strengthen metro -
politan communities and foster civic innovation for public good. Our Cities work 
focuses on education and training, economic development, sustainability, criminal 
justice, accessibility, transportation, and other local priorities. We will look to apply 
technology and data to advance the effectiveness and awareness of local initiatives 
and priorities. Through nonprofit, government, and organizational partnerships, 
the team strives to actively collaborate on work that has a sustained and scalable 
impact on the lives of individuals.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report46Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
FY18 highlights Explore some of the ways we’ve engaged with communities around the globe to 
bring greater economic opportunity.
Closing the rural broadband gap 
We launched the Microsoft Airband Initiative to bring affordable broadband internet 
service to 2 million people in rural America by 2022, while expanding affordable 
broadband services to rural communities around the world.
Learn more about our progress  
Teaching girls about STEM
We hosted more than 100 middle and high school girls on our Fargo, North Dakota 
campus for a DigiGirlz camp. This gave them the opportunity to learn about careers 
in technology, connect with Microsoft employees, and participate in workshops.
Learn more about DigiGirlz camp  
Advancing the workforce in Wyoming
Microsoft has partnered with Laramie County Community College (LCCC) to help 
bolster a 21st-centruy workforce. Students will now have access to data center 
technician and cybersecurity courses. We’ve also launched a server administration 
program for Microsoft employees.
Learn more about the partnership  
Improving student success 
Dallas County educates over 500,000 students in grades K-12, but less than one in 
three will complete college within six years. To improve student success, Commit, 
DataKind, Microsoft Cities, and Strive Together are partnering to apply machine 
learning techniques to inform possible approaches.
Learn more about the program  
A brand-new community space 
We’ve opened a Garage space at the Microsoft New England R&D (NERD) Center in 
Boston. It includes a “maker space,” reality room, and collaboration areas for people 
to connect and engage.
Learn more about the Garage  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report47Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet Resources Strengthening communities
FY18 reporting resources Donations and volunteerism factsheet (PDF)
Download the report of our donation and volunteerism investments over the past 
three fiscal years.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Get the bigger picture Explore key resources to learn more about our work to empower communities 
around the globe.
Microsoft TechSpark
We’re working to learn more about regional challenges and how technology can 
help better contribute to local economic growth, with a plan to share our learnings 
more broadly.
Learn more about TechSpark  
Airband Initiative 
We partner with equipment makers, internet and energy access providers, and 
local entrepreneurs to make affordable broadband access a reality for communities 
around the world. 
Learn about the Airband Initiative  
TEALS
A grassroots volunteer-based program, Technology Education and Literacy in 
Schools (TEALS) helps high schools build and grow a sustainable computer science 
program. 
Learn more about TEALS  
Microsoft Philanthropies
We believe that technology can provide endless opportunity and Microsoft Philan -
thropies works to create a future where everyone has access to these opportunities. 
Explore our philanthropic work  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report48
Environmental sustainability49Protecting our planetMicrosoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report49Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Resources Protecting our planet
Environmental  
sustainability 
Microsoft is committed to leveraging technology to solve some of the world’s most 
urgent environmental issues—focusing on areas where we can have the most posi -
tive impact.
Our commitment and approachImpact at a glance
Microsoft aspires to enable a sustainable future by empowering every person and 
organization on the planet to thrive in a resource-constrained world.
Focus areas
Our environmental sustainability work focuses in three primary areas: carbon and 
energy, water and ecosystems (including agriculture, biodiversity, conservation), and 
waste minimization. We work to reduce our impact within our operations, create 
sustainable products and devices, innovate with our partners to solve environmental 
challenges with technology, and drive policies that help create a more sustainable 
future.
Water
At Microsoft, we believe in the sustainable management of the water resources we 
use across our operations We’re focused on increasing our understanding water-re -
lated risks and business impacts and how those affect the communities we serve. 
We set meaningful goals, improve our water efficiency, and advance innovative 
solutions to water challenges. The Silicon Valley campus will be the first tech cam -
pus with net-zero water certification, all the non-drinking water in the building will 
come from rainfall or on-site recycled water.
Learn more about our approach  
Carbon
Our internal carbon fee has helped us achieve 100 percent carbon neutrality since 
2012. The carbon fee funds our work to improve operational efficiency and enables 
us to buy clean energy and invest in carbon offset community projects.
Learn more about our program  75% reduction in carbon emissions planned through continued carbon neutrality 
and energy commitments.
$50 million  over five years dedicated to getting cloud and AI tools in the hands of 
those solving global environmental challenges.
100%  carbon neutrality achieved by our global operations every year since 2012.
20% reduction in product packaging weight for new devices in FY18.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report50Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Resources Protecting our planet
Energy
We aspire to use our purchasing power, research and development and technolo -
gy to change how Microsoft – and ultimately the world – consumes energy. We’ve 
purchased more than 1 gigawatt of renewable energy and have renewable energy 
projects on three continents. In our datacenters, we pilot cutting-edge fuel cell 
research and energy-storage batteries inside. Beyond our operations, we work with 
customers, partners and policymakers to enable greater change. We have also in -
creased the energy efficiency of our devices and leveraged the energy saving capa -
bilities of Windows 10 to provide a better user experience while reducing consumer 
energy use. Lastly, our Factory of the Future solar panel installation, combined with 
the smart building system in one of our largest supplier’s facilities is projected to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions (in CO2e) by approximately three million pounds 
annually.
Learn more about our commitment  
Waste minimization
We design our products, buildings, and operations to promote resource reduction 
and reuse, enabling a more resource-efficient and productive economy. We use 
life cycle assessments and value stream analysis to improve product and packaging 
resource efficiency. On average, we have reduced new product package weight by 
20 percent through a combination of right-sizing packaging to the product and 
introducing new lightweight materials. Microsoft is a member of over 150 recycling 
programs worldwide, covering electronics, batteries, and packaging. Beyond our 
products, our Puget Sound campus is zero-waste certified, reducing overall waste 
generation and diverting at least 90 percent of our operational waste from landfills.
Learn more about our products  
FY18 highlights In 2018, we made strong progress towards our renewable energy, research and 
development, and product carbon efficiency goals.
A solar power milestone 
We signed a 315 MW project in Virginia which is the largest corporate solar agree -
ment in the United States. Purchasing clean energy where we have operations, 
especially when there are relatively few renewable projects, improves our operations 
and helps accelerate change.
Learn more about this project  
Making our cloud green
A new study found that Microsoft cloud services are up to 93 percent more energy 
efficient and up to 98 percent more carbon efficient than our on-premises offerings 
as a result of our investments in efficiency and green energy.
Learn about our cloud  
Unlocking conservation with AI
Using AI and a new Azure chip solution, Microsoft made a breakthrough discov -
ery and converted 200 million images into a national land cover map in about 10 
minutes. These maps can be used to protect land and watersheds, enable better 
disaster prediction and response, and fight deforestation.
Learn more about AI discoveries  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report51Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Resources Protecting our planet
Redesigning our datacenters 
We successfully piloted an approach to use fuel cells as the primary power source 
for a small datacenter in Seattle, Washington. This simplified approach could double 
the energy efficiency of datacenters.
Learn more about the pilot   
Product packaging sustainability
For new programs in FY18, we reduced the weight of product packaging by 20 per -
cent, and decreased packaging related greenhouse gas emissions by 29 percent.
Learn more about our program  
Energy efficiency in our devices
The Surface Pro features a faster CPU and accelerated inking display while using 
less energy than the Surface Pro 4 and increasing battery life up to 13.5 hours.*
Learn more about energy efficiency  
EPEAT Gold rating
n 2018, all Surface computers achieved EPEAT Gold environmental performance 
ratings in the US for their environmentally friendly design.
 Download our Devices Sustainability Report (PDF)
*Up to 13.5 hours of video playback. Testing conducted by Microsoft in April 2017 using preproduction 
Intel Core i5, 256GB, 8GB RAM device. Testing consisted of full battery discharge during video playback. 
All settings were default except: Wi-Fi was associated with a network and Auto-Brightness disabled. 
Battery life varies significantly with settings, usage, and other factors of the Surface Pro line and extend 
its battery life.
FY18 reporting resources Environmental Sustainability Data Factsheet (PDF)
Find more information on key environmental indicators including greenhouse gas 
emissions, energy consumption, water consumption and discharge, and waste 
through our downloadable report.
2018 CDP Climate Change Response (PDF)
Download our response to the annual CDP climate change questionnaire, covering 
the FY17 reporting period.
2018 CDP Water Response (PDF)
Download our response to the annual CDP water questionnaire, covering the FY17 
reporting period.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Devices Sustainability at Microsoft (PDF)
Download the report to learn how we embed sustainability requirements directly 
into the business practices of our device organization and partners.Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report52Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Resources Protecting our planet
Get the bigger picture Explore key resources to learn more about our environmental sustainability efforts.
Environment
Learn more about how Microsoft is enabling a sustainable future through our envi -
ronmental sustainability work.
Explore our environment site  
Green blog 
Get news, updates, and opinions about recent environmental events and activities. 
Visit the Green blog  
CDP climate change response
Learn about our commitment to respond to climate change and the role of technol -
ogy and governments in the transition to a low-carbon economy. 
 Download PDF of our response
Environmental compliance specifications
Learn more about environmental compliance specifications for Microsoft hardware, 
packaging, and supplier conformance in our online hub. 
Get details about our efforts  
Responsible sourcing policy
Get details on our strategy for the sourcing of raw materials for use in Microsoft our 
hardware products. 
 Download PDF of our policyMicrosoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report53
Reports hub54Resources
Global Reporting Initiative Index56
UN SDGs57
Recognitions58Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report54Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources
Reports hub 
Placing a premium on transparency and easy-to-find content, our reports hub provides a 
consolidated view of the reports referenced throughout this document.
Report content and supplemental resources
We make it easy for our stakeholders to access, download, and share the reports relevant to 
their individual needs. The content below features sections of our FY18 CSR report by topic, 
alongside related supplemental reports and resources.
Our approach
Empowering peopleLetter from our CEO
Letter to Shareholders, CEO Satya Nadella
Digital trust reports
Law Enforcement Requests Report online summary
U.S. National Security Orders Report online summary
Content Removal Requests Report online summary
Accessibility
Accessibility summary
Microsoft Accessibility Conformance Reports
Empowering our employees
Empowering our employees summary
EEO-1 Report 2016 (PDF)
Workforce demographicsOur approach to reporting
Our approach to reporting summary
GRI Standards Index
UN Global Compact Communication on Progress
Facts about Microsoft
Subsidiaries
Operation centers
Financial data
Employment informationGovernance of CSR
Governance of CSR summary
Stakeholder Engagement (PDF)
Privacy and data security
Privacy and data security summary
Human rights
Human rights summary
Microsoft Annual Human Rights Report (PDF)
Microsoft Report on the GNI Independent Assessment 
2015/2016 (PDF)
GNI Annual Report
Microsoft Response: Business and Human Rights Resource 
Center
Responsible sourcing
Responsible sourcing summary
Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials Policy (PDF)
Top 100 Production Suppliers (PDF)
Devices sustainability report (PDF)
Conflict Minerals Report (PDF)
Microsoft Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2017 
(PDF)
Monitor Prison Labor PDFMicrosoft Investor Relations Reports
Microsoft Proxy Statement
Microsoft Annual Reports
Microsoft SEC FilingsMicrosoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report55Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources
Strengthening communities
Protecting our planetEmpowering nonprofits
Empowering nonprofits summary
Data factsheet: Donations and volunteerism (PDF)
Empowering nonprofits
Environmental sustainability summary
Environmental sustainability data factsheet 2017 (PDF)
Devices sustainability report (PDF)
CDP Climate Change Response (PDF)
CDP Water Response (PDF)
CDP Climate Reports – CDP .net
CDP Water Reports – CDP .netLocal engagement
Local engagement summary
Data factsheet: Donations and volunteerism (PDF)Humanitarian action
Humanitarian action summaryPublic policy engagement
Public policy engagement summary
Advocacy and Trade Memberships 2017 (PDF)
MSPAC State Candidate Contributions H1 2018 (PDF)
MSPAC Federal Candidate Contributions H1 2018 (PDF)
MSPAC Non-Candidate Committee Contributions H1 2018 
(PDF)
Microsoft  Corporate Political Contributions H1 2018 (PDF)
Public policy advocacy spending (PDF)
Microsoft Cloud policy roadmapDigital skills and career pathways
Digital skills and career pathways summary
Data factsheet: Donations and volunteerism (PDF)Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report56Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources
Global Reporting Initiative 
Index 
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) provides corporations with a framework to 
guide their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reporting. The GRI Index is based 
on input from a wide range of civil society organizations, labor groups, businesses, 
academic institutions, and other experts. The 2018 Microsoft CSR report  contains 
disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting 
Standards . We provide the GRI Content Index below to help our readers more easily 
locate the disclosures throughout the report.
Download Microsoft 2018 GRI Standards Content Index  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report57Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources
Our commitment to 
sustainable development
Microsoft is committed to empowering sustainable development for everyone, and 
ensuring everyone has access to the benefits technology provides and the opportu -
nities it creates.
We believe in the power of technology to drive a positive business and societal 
impact, enabling a range of economic and social opportunities around the world. 
With this understanding, we have embraced our shared responsibility with the 
private, public, and civic sectors to accelerate progress and lead towards sustain -
able development. Our partnerships and investments with the United Nations and 
other nonprofits around the world are testimony to the role we play in advancing 
an agenda of inclusion that contributes towards achieving the 17 global Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)  by 2030.
Our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to 
achieve more aligns strongly to the UN SDGs. We demonstrate this commitment 
through our products and solutions, our responsible business practices, our pro -
grams, our policy and advocacy work and our philanthropic investments.
We see opportunities in how we do business and how we use technology to 
address some of the world’s greatest challenges. We are committed to leading 
responsible business practices as the foundation of how we work and we seek ways 
to scale the impact of our efforts around humanitarian initiatives. To this end, we 
committed to driving education, digital skills, work, and livelihood opportunities for 
refugee or displaced youth, ensuring gender and accessibility inclusion, as well as 
leading environmental initiatives.
Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report58Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources
Awards and recognition
Microsoft is honored to have received positive recognition for our work in corporate 
social responsibility.
Ranking Digital Rights Corporate Accountability Index
In 2018, Microsoft ranked second overall on the Ranking Digital Rights Corporate 
Accountability Index. 
Learn more  
FTSE Russell (FTSE4Good Index)
In 2018, Microsoft was included in the FTSE4Good Index, an equity index series de -
signed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognized corpo -
rate responsibility standards. 
Learn more  
Vigeo-Eiris (Euronext Index)
In 2018, Vigeo Eiris included Microsoft in the Euronext World 120 and Euronext US 
50 indexes. Vigeo Eiris measures the risks and performances of companies in 41 sec -
tors on 38 ESG issues. 
Learn more  
100 Best Corporate Citizens
Microsoft ranked first on the 2018 Corporate Responsibility Magazine (CR Maga -
zine) 100 Best Corporate Citizens list. The list recognizes standout environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) performances from public companies across the 
United States. 
Learn more  
ISS Environmental and Social QualityScore
In 2018, Microsoft received a #1 rating for both Environment and Social scores with -
in the ISS E&S QualityScore which measures corporate performance on over 200 
factors. 
Learn more  
Global CSR RepTrak 100
In 2018, Microsoft sixth among the top 100 companies in the world with the best 
CSR reputations. 
Learn more  
The Just 100
In 2017, Microsoft was ranked fourth on Just Capital’s list of “America’s Best Corpo -
rate Citizens” and was ranked first among companies within the software industry 
for the second year in a row. 
Learn more  
CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project)
For the fourth year in a row, the Carbon Disclosure Project included Microsoft in its 
Climate A List for climate performance leadership. 
Learn more  Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report59Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources
Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality Index™
IMicrosoft received a 100% rating on the HRC Corporate Equality Index™ for the 
eleventh consecutive year and a distinction for “Best Places to Work for LGBT 
Equality.”
Learn more  
CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability
IIn 2018, the CPA-Zicklin Index named Microsoft as a “Trendsetter” among the S&P 
500 for our leadership in political disclosure and accountability. 
Learn more  
RobecoSAM (Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes)
As of 2018, Microsoft was named in the DJSI World and North America indexes. We 
celebrated our tenth year on the North America Index and ninth consecutive year 
on the World Index. 
Learn more  
MSCI ESG Ratings
In 2017, MSCI Ratings awarded Microsoft a AAA rating—the highest rating available 
to organization. MSCI Ratings provides institutional investors with a more compre -
hensive ESG integration solution. 
Learn more  
Sustainalytics Company ESG Reports
In 2017, Microsoft received an “Outperformer” rating from Sustainalytics, an inde -
pendent global ESG and corporate governance research, ratings, and analysis firm. 
Learn more  
Ethisphere Institute’s World’s Most Ethical Companies
In 2018, Ethisphere Institute ranked Microsoft among the world’s most ethical com -
panies for the eighth year in a row. 
Learn more  
EcoVadis Supplier Sustainability Rating
In 2018, Microsoft received Gold recognition thereby placing the company in the 
top five percent of performers evaluated by EcoVadis. 
Learn more  
*The inclusion of Microsoft Corporation in any MSCI index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, 
service marks, or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, or promotion of 
Microsoft and its affiliates by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI indexes are the exclusive property 
of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its 
affiliates.
 Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report60Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources
This document is provided as is. Information and views expressed in this document, including 
URL and other Internet website references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of 
using it.
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any 
Microsoft product.
You may copy and use this document for your internal reference process.
© 2018 Microsoft. All rights reserved.
Bing, BizSpark, DreamSpark, Imagine Cup, Internet Explorer, Office, Office 365, Outlook, 
Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Dynamics, Microsoft YouthSpark, PhotoDNA, OneDrive, 
Skype, Surface, Windows, Xbox, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Xbox LIVE, and Yammer are trademarks 
of the Microsoft group of companies. All other trademarks are property of their respective 
owners.
Please consider the environment before printing this report.