Microsoft 2019
Corporate Social 
Responsibility ReportPage 1Content
Our approach
02 Letter from Satya Nadella
03 Impact at a glance
04 Approach to CSR and reporting
Trust and responsibility 
06 Privacy and cybersecurity
09 AI
12 Human rights
15 R esponsible sourcing
18 Empowering our employees
Closing the opportunity gap
23 Broadband access
25 Skills and employability
28	 Empowering 	nonprofits
30 Accessibility
Protecting our planet
33 Environmental sustainability
Resources
37 R eports hubPage 2Satya Nadella
Read the 2019 letter from our CEO 
At its core, responsibility 
is about earning and sustaining the trust of the customers and partners we empower and the communities in which we live and work. Without trust, none of our progress is possible.
Our approach
03
Impact at a glance04
CSR and reportingPage 3IMPACT AT A GLANCE
Trust and 
responsibility26 million 
People around the 
world connected  
with tools, best practices and guidance for GDPR compliance.6.5 trillion 
Signals analyzed each day, plus processing of 450 billion authentications and scanning 400 billion emails for malware and phishing each month as we work to protect our customers.67 countries 
358 companies and 139 international and civil society organizations mobilized to join The Paris Peace Call for Trust and Security in Cyberspace.
$125 million 
Over	five	years	committed 	to	using	
artificial	intelligence 	to	tackle	some	of	
society’s biggest challenges.$500 million 
In loans and grants to accelerate the 
construction 	of	more	affordable 	housing	in	
the Puget Sound region.
Closing the 
opportunity gapOver 110 
Nonprofit 	organization 	
partnerships in 42 countries to reach millions of young people with quality digital skills and computer science experiences.40 million 
Unserved and underserved people around the globe to be connected with high speed internet access by 2022 through a new international track of our Airband Initiative.$1.5 billion 
In donated or discounted software and services via Microsoft Philanthropies.
$170 million 
(including company match) 
Through our employee giving program to 
support	nonprofits 	in	local	communities 	
around the world.152 percent 
Increase in the number of women 
corporate vice presidents.
Protecting  
our planet75 percent 
Reduction in operational emissions to be achieved by 2030, achieving the Paris Accord targets two decades early.$15 per metric ton 
Internal carbon fee, nearly doubling our previous fee.
60 percent 
Renewable energy for powering our datacenters to be achieved by the end of this year, with 70 percent achieved within the next four years.Page 4OUR APPROACH
Empowering every person and every organization to achieve more requires careful attention to the impact of 
our business practices, policies, and community investments.
Our 
commitmentOur	business 	practices 	and	policies	reflect	our	commitment 	to	making	a	positive	
impact around the globe. We work to apply the power of technology to earn 
and sustain the trust of the customers and partners we empower and the communities in which we live and work. This focus extends to our work to build 
a	sustainable 	future	where	everyone 	has	access	to	the	benefits	and	opportunities 	
that technology can bring. It’s central to our mission to empower every person and organization to achieve more, and it’s why many of our employees come to work every day.
Further, it’s a commitment that strongly aligns to the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals. We demonstrate our commitment to sustainable development 
through our products and solutions, our responsible business practices, our programs, our policy and advocacy work and our philanthropic investments. Explore the pages of this report to learn about some of the ways we’re harnessing technology to empower a sustainable future for everyone. 
Visit our CSR site for more about our sustainable development commitment
Working 
together with 
stakeholdersWe	know	that	the	decisions 	we	make	affect	our	employees, 	customers, 	partners, 	
shareholders, suppliers, and communities and we take their voices into account. 
Microsoft receives input from millions of people each year—from individual customers to policymakers and global human rights specialists. We bring outside perspectives into the company and inform our business decisions through a variety of feedback channels. We go beyond formal channels, proactively engaging with key stakeholders, advocacy groups, industry experts, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) rating agencies, CSR-focused investors, and many others. We also share our learnings and practices thereby generating industry dialogue, informing public debate, and advancing greater progress. 
About this  
reportWe place a premium on transparency and embrace our digital world to share both year-end and year-round updates. We’ve designed our CSR report PDF as a resource to help guide our stakeholders to the wealth of rich information available across the web about how we’re making the world a better place. In his annual shareholder letter, Satya Nadella, addresses our business and social impacts and sets the stage for both the 2019 CSR and Financial annual reports. Unless otherwise stated, the information in this report covers all of the Microsoft global operations 
during	the	2019	fiscal	year	(July	1,	2018	to	June	30,	2019).
Learn more about our CSR and reporting approachPage 5
Trust and responsibility
06
Privacy and 
cybersecurity09
AI
12
Human rights15
Responsible sourcing
18
Empowering our employeesPage 6PRIVACY AND CYBERSECURITY
We recognize privacy as a fundamental human right. We work to preserve our customers’ ability to 
control their data, make informed choices to protect their privacy, and support critical efforts to secure cyberspace against new and emerging threats. 
Our commitment  
and approachWe commit to working collaboratively across industry, governments, educational 
institutions, 	and	NGOs	in	the	fight	to	protect	privacy	and	cybersecurity 	for	
individuals and businesses around the globe. 
Privacy The	cloud	offers	us	enormous 	potential, 	not	only	in	driving	innovation 	and	
efficiencies 	but	also	in	serving	as	a	secure	location	for	storing	confidential 	
and sensitive information. These new technologies, however, raise challenging 
questions about the rules for how related data should be treated. Businesses and individuals have the reasonable expectation that the information they create and store in digital form should be accorded the same privacy protections as information they commit to paper. Microsoft product development and privacy practices focus on six key privacy principles:
Learn more about our principles
Cybersecurity To maintain global trust in technology—and secure cyberspace against new and emerging threats—public policy must continue to evolve. Microsoft supports 
these	critical	efforts,	focusing	on	four	broad	themes	of	concern	to	policymakers: 	
cybersecurity policy and resilience, cloud security and assurance, a Digital Geneva Convention, and cybercrime legislation and strategy. We also work with law enforcement and other public/private partnerships via our Digital Crimes Unit to disrupt nation-state activity.
Defending 
democracyThreats to our democratic processes from cyber-enabled interference have become 
a critical concern. Through our Defending Democracy Program, we work with stakeholders including governments, non-government organizations, academics, and industry all in democratic countries globally to protect campaigns from hacking, increase political advertising transparency online, explore technological solutions to preserve and protect electoral processes, and defend against disinformation campaigns. 
Read the program announcementPage 7HighlightsWe’re driving compliance across our cloud, helping users view and control their 
activity,	and	engaging 	with	stakeholders 	on	the	future	of	artificial	intelligence.
Complying with 
GDPRMicrosoft is committed to making sure that our products and services comply with 
GDPR. We also provide our commercial customers with robust tools, backed up by contractual commitments, to help them comply. Since GDPR became enforced on May 25, 2018, over 26 million people around the world have used Microsoft’s Privacy Dashboard to control their personal data and exercise GDPR privacy rights, which Microsoft has extended to all of our consumer customers worldwide.
Learn more about our progress
Creating a safer 
world for digital 
transformation Cybersecurity is one of the most critical challenges we and our customers face. We continue to invest in innovation and partnerships around the globe to address this challenge. We’re working to protect our customers by analyzing more than  
6.5 trillion signals each day, processing 450 billion authentications and scanning 400 billion emails for malware and phishing each month.
Learn more about our measures
Protecting political 
campaignsOur Defending Democracy Team is driving critical work to protect political campaigns, candidates and the institutions of democracies. This team has introduced ElectionGuard, Microsoft 365 for Campaigns and has deployed AccountGuard in some 26 countries.
Learn more about our progress
Promoting trust 
and security in 
cyberspaceWe’ve partnered with the Government of France to mobilize 67 countries, 358 companies, and 139 international and civil society organizations to join the Paris Peace Call for Trust & Security in Cyberspace.
Learn more about this step toward digital peace
Tools and Weapons: 
The Promise and  
the Peril of the  
Digital AgeA new book by Microsoft President Brad Smith and Microsoft Senior Director of External Relations and Executive Communications Carol Ann Browne, discuss the impact of AI, the rise of cyberattacks, threats to digital privacy and more.
Learn more about the book
Reporting 
resourcesLaw Enforcement Requests Report US National Security Orders Report
Content Removal Requests ReportThis semi-annual report provides information about the legal demands for customer data we receive from law enforcement agencies around the world, as well as our responses to them.This semi-annual report provides the data we’re legally allowed to share about demands for customer data we receive from the US government pursuant to national security laws, as well as our responses to them.
This semi-annual report provides information about the number of requests received and accepted to remove access to content that is available online through one of our consumer products or services.Page 8Get the bigger 
pictureExplore these key resources to learn more about our work.
Privacy 
statementThe Microsoft privacy statement explains what personal data we collect from users 
and how we use it.
Review the statement 
Microsoft Trust 
CenterThe Trust Center provides enterprise and business customers information on how Microsoft protects their data across our cloud services, including how we can help organizations comply with GDPR.
Visit the Trust Center
A Cloud for 
Global GoodOur policy roadmap covers a range of policy areas and provides a comprehensive set of recommendations and considerations mapped to a trusted, responsible, and inclusive cloud.
Visit the cloud policy roadmap
Security From individuals to enterprise businesses, we’re committed to helping our customers get secure—and stay secure—in a world of persistent cyberthreats.
Visit our Microsoft Secure site
Microsoft on the 
Issues: PrivacyVisit our Microsoft on the Issues blog for the latest updates about our work to defend and protect privacy for individuals and businesses around the world.
Visit the blog
Microsoft on the Issues: 
CybersecurityVisit our Microsoft on the Issues blog for the latest updates about our support for 
critical	efforts	to	secure	cyberspace.
Visit the blog
Microsoft on the Issues: 
Defending democracyVisit our Microsoft on the Issues blog for the latest on our program expansions and updates toward protecting the integrity of our democratic processes and institutions.
Visit the blogPage 9AI
We build AI responsibly, taking a principled approach to guide the development and use of artificial 
intelligence with people at the center of everything we do.
Our commitment  
and approachDesigning 	AI	to	be	trustworthy 	requires	creating	solutions 	that	reflect	ethical	
principles that are deeply rooted in important and timeless values. We then apply 
those principles to empower innovative solutions.
Microsoft AI 
PrinciplesFairness 
AI systems should treat all 
people fairly. Reliability & Safety 
AI systems should perform 
reliably and safely.Privacy & Security 
AI systems should be 
secure and respect privacy.
Inclusiveness 
AI systems should empower everyone and 
engage people.Transparency 
AI systems should be 
understandable.Accountability 
AI systems should have algorithmic 
accountability.
Learn more about our principles
AI for Good AI is fueling some of the most creative people on our planet to make change once 
thought impossible a reality. 
Through our AI for Good initiative, we seek to combine Microsoft’s technology and 
AI expertise with the talent of groups around the world to solve humanitarian issues and create a more accessible and sustainable world.
AI for Earth 
Placing AI technology and cloud software 
in the hands of those working to solve global climate issues.
Learn more about AI for EarthAI for Accessibility 
Leveraging the power of AI to amplify human capability for the more than one billion people globally with disabilities.
See how AI is empowering lives
AI for Humanitarian Action 
Leveraging AI to support disaster recovery, address the needs of children, protect displaced people, and promote human rights.
See our commitment in actionAI for Cultural Heritage 
Leveraging the power of AI to empower people and organizations dedicated to the preservation and enrichment of cultural heritage.
Learn about our commitmentPage 10HighlightsWe’re driving compliance across our cloud, helping users view and control their 
activity,	and	engaging 	with	stakeholders 	on	the	future	of	artificial	intelligence.
Microsoft announces 
AI for Cultural HeritageA	new	and	fourth	pillar	to	Microsoft’s 	AI	for	Good	portfolio 	will	use	artificial	
intelligence 	to	work	with	nonprofits, 	universities, 	and	governments 	around	the	
world to help preserve the languages we speak, the places we live, and the artifacts 
we treasure.
Read the announcement
Using AI to 
help save livesIn conjunction with the 2018 United Nations General Assembly meeting, we announced AI for Humanitarian Action committing $40 million over 5 years.
See the blog post by Brad Smith
Ag-Analytics helps 
farmers and researchers 
use AI to prepare for 
climate changeSharing Microsoft’s goal to help monitor, model, and manage earth’s natural resources with cloud and AI, Ag-Analytics brings precision agriculture to fruition in a platform that helps farmers leverage all available data to make the best decisions for their land.
Learn more
Microsoft and National 
Geographic Society 
announce AI for Earth 
Innovation granteesWith	the	help	of	artificial	intelligence, 	new	grantees 	are	actively	working	to	uncover	
new insights to better monitor, model, and ultimately manage the world’s natural 
resources 	more	effectively 	and	sustainably.
Find out more about these changemakers
Using AI to drive 
accessible innovation 
around the worldLast year we launched our AI for Accessibility program, a $25-million commitment to drive innovation and amplify human capability for people with disabilities. AI for Accessibility now has grantees across the globe leveraging our technology to empower people with disabilities.
Learn more about our grantees
Innovative solutions 
to water securityWe	see	huge	potential 	for	artificial	intelligence, 	remote	sensing,	data	analytics 	
and adaptive innovation to be applied to water security challenges, especially when paired with conservation science, and impact investment. Microsoft’s AI for Earth program and The Nature Conservancy’s collaboration with the Techstars 
Sustainability 	Accelerator 	offer	some	examples 	of	how	such	innovations 	can	drive	
adaptive water solutions.
Find out more about these innovative solutionsPage 11Get the bigger 
pictureExplore key resources to learn more about what AI can do in the hands of 
changemakers.
Tools and Weapons: 
The Promise and  
the Peril of the  
Digital AgeA new book by Microsoft President Brad Smith and Microsoft Senior Director of 
External Relations and Executive Communications Carol Ann Browne, discuss the impact of AI, the rise of cyberattacks, threats to digital privacy and more.
Learn more about the book
Microsoft AI Learn more about our approach to AI, our products and services, and how people and organizations are working together to transform our world for the better.
Visit the AI site
AI for Good Providing technology, resources, and expertise to empower those working to solve humanitarian issues and create a more sustainable and accessible world.
Learn about AI for Good
AI for Business Microsoft AI drives digital transformation across industries.
Learn about AI for Business
The AI blog Find cutting-edge examples of Microsoft AI in action and learn how it’s bringing people and organizations together.
Explore the AI blog
Innovation 
storiesAt Microsoft, we strive for meaningful innovation with products and services that both improve our lives daily and have the potential to change the world.
Learn about Microsoft InnovationPage 12HUMAN RIGHTS
We aim to respect human rights in the way we do business and to advance those rights with the power 
of technology.
Our commitment  
and approachMicrosoft aspires to leadership in business and human rights and to serve as a 
catalyst for action by others—in the technology sector and beyond.
Class-leading due 
diligenceWe aim to conduct best-in-class human rights impact assessments on our salient human rights actions and emerging trends in business and human rights.
Rights-aware 
decision makingWe’re deploying an integrated approach to human rights decision making across key aspects of Microsoft.
Proactive 
engagementWe use actions and public statements to demonstrate that Microsoft is an important voice, and we advocate for the promotion of human rights.
Transparent 
leadershipWe’re advancing transparency in our work and promoting human rights through increased disclosure and engagement.
HighlightsThe UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Global  
Network Initiative Principles on Freedom of Expression and Privacy steer our human rights work.
Global human rights 
standardsA focus on human rights helps our employees to make good decisions and ethical choices, and builds trust with our customers and partners. As articulated in Microsoft’s Global Human Rights Statement we rely on international standards to ensure that our business activities respect and promote human rights so that technology plays a positive role across the globe.
Learn about our global human rights efforts
Empowering the UN We’re	working	with	the	UN	Human	Rights	Office	to	help	them	develop	
technology to predict, analyze, and respond to human rights situations. We’re also collaborating on joint projects and have provided a multi-million-dollar grant to 
support	ongoing	efforts.
Learn about our partnership
AI and human rights Artificial	intelligence 	can	improve	life	in	many	ways	and	help	solve	societal	
problems, but AI comes with both challenges and opportunities. We need to address the challenges together with shared responsibility. Our book, The Future Computed, outlines the future of responsible AI technology.
Learn about The Future ComputedPage 13Collaborating with 
UC BerkeleyIntegrating critical human rights issues directly into education can generate 
innovative approaches to managing our responsibilities and may help create the 
next generation of ethical leaders. We’re partnering with UC Berkeley to provide 
annual	conferences, 	student	consulting 	projects,	and	other	collaborative 	efforts.
Learn how we’re working together
Advancing 
digital safetyThe Global Internet Forum to Counter Terrorism is an international coalition to prevent terrorists and violent extremists from exploiting digital platforms. Individually and collectively, we are taking steps to implement the Christchurch Call to Action.
Learn about our digital safety efforts
Reporting 
resourcesMicrosoft Annual Human Rights 
Report (PDF)
Using the United Nations Guiding 
Principles Reporting Framework, we provide detailed disclosures for each of our salient human rights issues and activities through a downloadable report.GNI Assessments 2018/2019
Download the Global Network Initiative Public Report on the 2018/2019 Independent Company Assessments.
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (PDF)
Download the report to learn about the actions we’ve taken to prevent modern 
slavery	and	human	trafficking 	in	our	business 	and	supply	chain.
Law Enforcement Requests Report
Using the United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, we provide detailed disclosures for each of our salient human rights issues and activities through a downloadable report.
US National Security Orders Report
This bi-annual report provides the data we’re legally allowed to share about demands for customer data we receive from the US government pursuant to national security laws, as well as our responses to them.
Content Removal Requests Report
This bi-annual report provides information about the number of requests received and accepted to remove access to content that is available online through one of our consumer products or services.Page 14Get the bigger 
pictureExplore key resources to learn more about our Global Human Rights Statement, 
oursalient human rights issues, and our bi-annual digital trust reports.
Global Human 
Rights StatementWe have committed to ensuring that our employees, partners, and suppliers respect and promote human rights and that technology plays a positive role across the globe.
Learn more about our commitment
Accessibility We create and deliver technology that is accessible and functional for people of all abilities.
Learn more about accessibility
Freedom of expression 
and privacyWe respect peoples’ right to freedom of expression and their right to freedom from arbitrary and unlawful interference with privacy online.
Learn about freedom of expression
Digital safety We provide tools and resources to protect the digital safety and security of all internet users.
Find digital safety resources
Privacy and 
data securityWe’re incorporating privacy considerations into design and development processes, 
offering	customers 	meaningful 	privacy	choices,	and	responsibly 	collecting, 	
managing, and using the customer data that we store.
Discover our approach to privacyPage 15RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
At Microsoft, we work to ensure that our suppliers operate in a socially, environmentally, legally, and 
ethically responsible manner—and treat the people who work for them fairly and with dignity.
Our commitment  
and approachWe set high standards for our suppliers and collaborate with them to positively 
impact their workers, their local communities, and their business operations.
Microsoft has relationships with thousands of suppliers around the globe,  
spanning both hardware suppliers that manufacture our devices and components, 
and indirect suppliers that provide everything from advertising services to building construction and maintenance.
We expect all suppliers that do business with Microsoft to uphold the human 
rights, labor, health and safety, environmental, and business ethics practices prescribed in our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) . This code aligns with, and 
exceeds, the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct . The Supplier 
Code of Conduct is included in all our supplier contracts and Microsoft Social and Environmental Accountability (SEA) requirements are also incorporated into our hardware and packaging supplier contracts.
Devices 
responsible 
sourcingSince 2005, Microsoft Devices has operated an industry-leading Responsible Sourcing program (also referred to as SEA) to ensure that our hardware and packaging suppliers conform to our Supplier Code of Conduct and additional requirements for living conditions, safe working practices, and environmental, health, and safety protection. We advance our responsible sourcing commitments through:
• Analysis of risks and opportunities
• Assurance and accountability
• Capability building
• Shared value and advancement of the Sustainable Development Goals set by the UN to improve people’s quality of life, protect the environment, and foster equitable growth
Procurement 
responsible 
sourcingSince 2013 Microsoft Procurement has also operated an industry-leading Responsible Sourcing program to promote socially and environmentally responsible companies in their supply chain. We engage with a broad range of stakeholders to shape and implement our Responsible Sourcing program and to extend our overall impact. Our approach is to converge on credible, industry leading 
sustainability 	products 	and	services.	Through	this	approach, 	we	achieve	efficiencies, 	
facilitate participation, reduce risk, and ultimately, improve our suppliers and other stakeholders social and environmental performance.Page 16HighlightsMicrosoft continues to focus on business and human rights, and acts as a 
catalyst	for	others	who	are	participating 	in	these	efforts,	in	the	technology 	
sector and beyond.
Microsoft Devices Embedding compliance and sustainability into our business
We’ve built an Audit Management System (AMS) to continue to transform how 
we embed compliance and sustainability into our business. Using Microsoft Power BI, we can track performance and enable continuous supply chain improvements throughout the SEA Stages.
Workers’ Voice Hotline
Our Workers’ Voice Hotline program was extended to 153 factories in FY19. We 
were named one of the Top 2 Leading Companies for Workers Voice by Know  
the Chain.
Children out of mining
We continued our partnership with Pact to end child labor in tin and cobalt 
mines located in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
Learn about Pact
Capacity-building
We delivered capability-building programs to 21 suppliers in Taiwan to improve 
factory	labor	management 	in	mitigating 	human	trafficking 	and	forced	labor.
Understanding risk 
To identify and prioritize risk, we completed our mapping of the origination 
of key raw materials that are used in our complex and global upstream supply chain. This allows us to continually improve our supplier due diligence and 
capability 	building	efforts	to	drive	change	and	accountability 	regarding 	materials 	
used in our products.
Learn more from our Devices Sustainability Report
Microsoft Procurement Supplier diversity
In FY19, Microsoft spent almost more than $3 billion with minority-, disabled-, 
veteran-, LGBTQ-, and woman-owned businesses, ranking among the top 20 companies for spending with diverse-owned suppliers globally.
Climate performance
In FY19, 100 of our top suppliers reported an average of $530K invested in 
emissions reduction activities, reducing their collective footprint by 5.6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO
2e).
Supplier awards 
In FY19, with stakeholders including Business for Social Responsibility, 
United States Environmental Protection Agency, the CDP and the Rockefeller Foundation, we provided awards for our supplier leaders in Supplier Diversity, Climate Change, and Impact Sourcing.
Learn more about our progressPage 17Reporting 
resourcesSlavery and Human Trafficking 
Statement (PDF)
Download our report, which is 
released each year, to learn about the actions we’re taking to prevent modern slavery and human 
trafficking 	in	our	business 	and	
supply chains.Devices sustainability report (PDF)
See the key results of our Responsible Sourcing and Social and Environmental Accountability audits and assessments in the Devices Sustainability at Microsoft Fiscal Year 2019 report.
Conflict Minerals Report (PDF)
Download our latest annual 
conflict	minerals	report,	which	
details our due diligence around the responsible sourcing of gold, tin, tungsten, and tantalum in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjacent countries.Production Supplier List (PDF)
Each year, Microsoft publishes a downloadable list of our top 100 production suppliers for our commercially available devices.
Get the bigger 
pictureExplore more responsible sourcing resources.
Responsible 
sourcingGet more detailed information on the policies and programs related to our responsible sourcing commitment.
Learn about the programs
Microsoft 
Supplier Code 
of ConductAccess our Supplier Code of Conduct in multiple languages and explore links to related resources including our Supplier Code of Conduct training program.
Explore our supplier standards
Devices 
Responsible Raw 
Materials PolicyLearn more about our responsible raw materials sourcing strategy and associated programs.
Download PDF about our policy
Supplier diversity Get an overview of our Supplier Diversity Program and access links to resources, including a tool for diverse suppliers to register their interest in working with Microsoft.
Learn about supplier diversity
Microsoft 
sustainable 
devicesExplore our approach and commitment to producing environmentally sustainable devices.
Learn about sustainable devicesPage 18EMPOWERING OUR EMPLOYEES
*Those ILO principles are freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 
bargaining; elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor; effective abolition of child labor; and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.At Microsoft, we’re focused on bringing out the best in people, supporting their goals, and 
empowering them to find deep meaning and purpose in their work.
Our commitment  
and approachMicrosoft’s mission is to empower every person and every organization on the 
planet to achieve more. The only way we will achieve our mission is by transforming 
our	culture.	We	are	seeing	results	from	our	efforts,	but	we	are	not	done.	We	are	
constantly learning.
Our culture At its core, Microsoft’s strength lies in our talented people and a culture grounded in growth mindset. This means anyone can change, learn, and grow. We believe potential can be nurtured and is not pre-determined, and we should always be 
learning	and	curious	-	trying	new	things	without	fear	of	failure.	We	identified 	 
four	attributes 	that	allow	growth	mindset	to	flourish.	Obsessing 	over	what	 
matters to our customers, becoming more diverse and inclusive in everything we do, operating as one company instead of multiple siloed businesses and lastly, 
making	a	difference 	in	the	lives	of	each	other,	our	customers 	and	the	world	 
around us. 
Learn more about our mission and culture
Respecting 
human rightsOur Global Human Rights Statement, and participation as a signatory to the UN Global Compact, demonstrate our commitment to respecting the following human rights covenants and declarations:
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights
International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work*
Total rewards We develop dynamic, sustainable, and strategic programs that together provide a 
highly	differentiated 	portfolio 	to	attract,	reward	and	retain	top	talent	and	enable	
our employees to do their best work. These programs reinforce our culture 
and values. The result is a global performance and development approach that fosters our culture, competitive compensation that ensures equitable pay by role 
while	supporting 	pay	for	performance, 	and	distinctive 	benefits	that	delight	our	
employees.
Learn more about our benefitsPage 19Diversity and 
inclusionAt Microsoft we have an inherently inclusive mission – empower everyone on 
the planet. We think of diversity and inclusion as core to our business model, something which informs our actions and can impact economies and people around the world. There are billions of people who want to achieve more, but 
have	a	different 	set	of	circumstances, 	abilities,	and	backgrounds 	that	often	limit	
access to opportunity and achievement. The better we represent that diversity inside Microsoft, the better we’re able to innovate for those we seek to empower. 
At Microsoft we each strive to include others by holding ourselves accountable 
for diversity, driving global systemic change in our workplace and workforce, and creating an inclusive work environment. Through this commitment we can allow everyone the chance to be their authentic selves and do their best work every day.
Learn more about global diversity and inclusion at Microsoft
Training and 
developmentOur growth mindset culture begins with valuing learning over knowing—seeking out new ideas, embracing challenges, learning from failure, and improving over 
time.	To	support	this	culture,	we	offer	a	diverse	range	of	learning	and	development 	
opportunities. We believe training can be more than formal instruction, and our philosophy focuses on providing the right learning, at the right time, in the right way. Opportunities include:
• Personalized, integrated, and relevant views of all learning opportunities on Microsoft Learning and LinkedIn Learning
• In-the-classroom learning and sharing with learner boards
• On-the-job “stretch” opportunities for advancement
• Frequent promotion opportunities
• Coaching on career development through ongoing manager connections
• Customized manager training to enhance coaching and mentoring skills
• New employee orientation covering a range of topics including company values, culture, and Standards of Business Conduct
Wellness and 
safetyMicrosoft is committed to supporting our employees’ well-being and safety while they are at work and in their personal lives. 
In	addition	to	our	comprehensive 	benefits	package, 	our	Occupational 	Health	and	
Safety program helps ensure employees can stay safe while they are working.
• Professionals assess the safety risks of work activities and engage with workers and management to implement safe work practices, hazard controls, and training to minimize safety risks and to provide continual improvement for employee health and safety
• New and existing workspaces are periodically assessed to ensure they are constructed with sound design-for-safety principles and that controls are 
implemented 	effectively
• Microsoft involves employees and managers in Health and Safety Committees 
specific	to	our	datacenters, 	retail	operations, 	and	office	locations 	where	required
Learn more about our commitment to safe and productive workplacesPage 20HighlightsWe	continue 	to	deepen	our	commitment 	to	diversity	and	inclusion, 	offer	
our employees valuable training, and seek better ways to support both 
them and their loved ones.
Employee feedback 
countsNearly 90 percent of employees participated in our annual MS Poll engagement survey—94 percent said they’re proud to work for Microsoft, 90 percent said they’d recommend it as a great place to work, and 93% report having a positive working relationship with their manager. Over the course of the year, we also collected nearly 75,000 Daily Pulse responses, and we continue to leverage both listening systems to understand employee sentiment and address areas of concern. 
Ethical business 
decision makingAll Microsoft employees must complete annual Standards of Business Conduct training. The training course is available in 16 languages and in FY19 we achieved a course completion rate greater than 99 percent.
Learn about the standards
Committed to diversity 
and inclusionWe are building a more inclusive environment through programs like expanded caregiver leave, unconscious bias training, a global allyship program, a commitment to ongoing dialogue and the continued support for and growth of our eight Employee Resource Groups. Most recently, we made inclusion a “core priority” for all employees at Microsoft, which means that as part of our performance and development approach, every employee is encouraged to deepen their learning about diversity and make inclusion a daily—and personal—part of their job. 
Learn more about our approach
Global family leave Microsoft 	offers	generous 	paid	family	leave	to	employees 	worldwide. 	Employees 	
get a minimum of 20 weeks paid parental leave for birth parents and six weeks for 
non-	birth	parents.	We	also	offer	caregiver 	leave,	which	allows	employees 	up	to	four	
weeks of paid leave to care for an immediate family member.
Review the announcement
Perspectives We continued to drive our new approach to feedback called Perspectives, which was built using learnings from neuroscience and social psychology. Perspectives aims to improve how we ask for, share, and receive high-quality feedback to enable growth mindset and allow employees to better embrace our culture.
Learn more about Perspectives
Reporting 
resourcesWorkforce demographics
The demographics of our workforce will continue to serve as a measure of our progress toward a more diverse and inclusive Microsoft, and our contribution to the diversity of the tech industry at large.Page 21Get the bigger 
pictureWe	offer	many	key	resources 	to	help	visitors	gain	a	more	comprehensive 	 
understanding of our commitment to empowering our employees.
Microsoft 
careersMicrosoft is always looking for the best and brightest talent. We invite candidates 
of all abilities to come as they are and do what they love.
Explore Microsoft careers
Diverse 
perspectivesInfusing our commitment to diversity and inclusion into everything we do allows us to tap into the collective power of everyone at Microsoft. As a result, we are more agile, our ideas are better, our products are better, and our customers are better served. 
Learn more about our approach
Microsoft Life We highlight stories on how employees are empowered by the company culture to 
follow	their	passions, 	make	a	difference 	in	the	world,	and	live	a	#MicrosoftLife.
Explore the Microsoft Life site
Inclusive 
hiringTo build the best products for everyone, we need to have a diverse and inclusive workforce across all abilities. Through our inclusive hiring programs, we work towards that goal every day.
Learn about inclusive hiring
Global Human 
Rights StatementOur Global Human Rights Statement and participation in the UN Global Compact, are part of our commitment to respecting human rights covenants and declarations.
Review the statement
Employee stories Explore the technology and innovations Microsoft employees around the world are creating, from working to solve cancer to tracking down cybercriminals.
Check out our storiesPage 22
Closing the opportunity gap
23
Broadband 
access25
Skills and employability
28
Empowering nonprofits30
AccessibilityPage 23BROADBAND ACCESS
As a global technology company, we believe we have a responsibility and a great opportunity to help 
close the broadband gap that exists in the US and across the globe.
Our commitment  
and approachWe partner with equipment makers, internet and energy access providers, and 
local	entrepreneurs 	to	make	affordable 	broadband 	access	a	reality	for	communities 	
around the world.
Eliminating 
the US rural 
broadband gapIn 2017 we launched a comprehensive US rural broadband strategy to help 
connect at least 25 million Americans without access to broadband, of which more than 19 million people live in rural communities. We have committed to connect 
3	million	of	these	people	through	Airband	partnerships, 	invest	in	making	specific	
broadband 	technology 	more	affordable, 	and	help	with	digital	skills	training	for	the	
communities we reach.
Learn more about our comprehensive strategy
Download the 2018 strategy document
Closing the global 
digital divideIn 2019 we formalized our international work within the Airband Initiative. Broadband adoption has slowed, and progress is especially elusive in low-income countries and rural areas across the globe. Most of the connected population relies on low speed, basic cellular services and only 14.1 percent of the global population has an in-home internet subscription. Through the international track of the Airband Initiative, our goal is to extend internet access to 40 million 
unserved 	and	underserved 	people	within	the	span	of	three	years.	Our	efforts	will	
focus	on	areas	with	significant 	underserved 	populations 	–	initially,	Latin	America	
and Sub-Saharan Africa. 
Learn more about our international track
Our partnerships Elimination of the broadband gap requires deployment of low-cost technology at scale. We support businesses working to increase internet and energy access 
and	make	it	more	affordable. 	Partnerships 	include	co-investment 	and	access	to	
resources like technology, digital skills, and reseller programs. 
Learn about our partnerships
Technology To	deliver	cost-effective 	broadband 	access	to	rural	areas,	network	operators 	must	
leverage	a	mix	of	technologies 	like	TV	white	spaces,	fixed	wireless,	and	satellite	
coverage. This technology model can reduce both the initial capital and the ongoing operating costs of broadband networks.
Learn about the technology modelsPage 24HighlightsThrough	the	Microsoft 	Airband	Initiative, 	we’re	working	to	bring	affordable 	
broadband access to everyone. Here are some highlights from our progress.
Reaffirming our 
commitment to global 
connectivityThrough the new international track of our Airband Initiative, we’ve set a 
new goal to extend high-speed internet access to 40 million unserved and 
underserved 	people	around	the	globe	by	July	2022.
Review the announcement
Working together to 
bring connectivity to 
military veteransMicrosoft 	is	expanding 	its	work	with	Veterans 	Affairs	to	bring	broadband 	access,	
digital skills training, and telehealth services to veterans living in rural areas.
Learn more about this plan
Bringing broadband 
internet to Indiana, 
Ohio, and IllinoisIn partnership with Microsoft, Watch Communications will deploy a variety of broadband technologies to cover more than four million people in the region, including 815,000 people in rural areas currently without access to broadband.
Learn more from the announcement
Connecting rural India With	a	mix	of	technologies, 	AirJaldi	has	created	a	series	of	hybrid	networks 	 
to	provide	affordable 	and	reliable	internet	to	some	of	India’s	most	 
underserved regions.
Learn more about AirJaldi
Connecting Colombia Italian	coffee	company 	Lavazza,	energy	and	agricultural 	innovator 	ALO&Partners, 	
and	the	Colombian 	nonprofit 	MAKAIA	teamed	up	to	connect	rural,	coffee-growing 	
areas of Colombia. Internet access was delivered via TV white-space technology and 
has	already	connected 	two	schools	and	five	farms.
Learn about Lavazza and partners
Delivering safe, 
affordable energy 
in AfricaOver 600 million Africans lack access to either electricity or internet. M-KOPA, a 
Kenya-based 	company, 	uses	a	cloud-connected 	IoT	device	to	deliver	affordable 	
clean	energy	to	3	million	people	and	600,000	off-grid	residences.
Learn more about M-KOPA
Get the bigger 
pictureExplore key resources to learn more about our work to close the broadband gap.
Microsoft Airband 
InitiativeAccess more information on our privacy principles, the common categories 
of	data	we	collect,	and	additional 	links	to	product	and	service-specific 	privacy	
information and controls.
Explore the Airband site
Microsoft on the Issues: 
Rural broadbandVisit our Microsoft on the Issues blog for the latest updates about our work to 
make	affordable 	broadband 	access	a	reality	for	communities 	around	the	world.
Visit the blogPage 25SKILLS AND EMPLOYABILITY
Microsoft is working to help ensure every person can build the skills and access the resources needed 
to succeed in a digital economy.
Our commitment  
and approachAs the world of work is changing, we believe in a future where every person has the 
skills, knowledge, and opportunity to thrive. That’s why as part of our commitment to ensure advances in technology leave no one behind, we’re focused on two critical areas: 
Equipping youth 
and future workersProviding inclusive, equitable access to computer science (CS) education can help ensure young people are equipped for the future. We partner with schools and organizations to provide experiences that spark excitement for future CS opportunities.
Empower organizations
Through	cash	grants,	technology, 	and	resources, 	we	support	nonprofits 	like	 
Code.org and Microsoft Philanthropies programs like Technology Education and 
Literacy in Schools (TEALS) to increase the capacity of organizations to develop and grow high-quality computer science programs.
Watch the TEALS video
Advocate for change
With partners like Code.org, we encourage states to increase access to CS education 
and count CS courses toward math and science credit requirements. 
Check the CS policy in your state
Get started with CS advocacy
Engage students
We	partner	with	over	110	nonprofit 	organizations 	in	42	countries 	to	reach	millions	
of young people with quality digital skills and computer science experiences that pique interest in technology and spark excitement.
Learn more about our partners
Creating 
pathways to  
21st-century jobsTo succeed in this modern economy, workers need access to learning resources to gain the skills required for in-demand jobs. We’re working to provide access to those resources to help create pathways for workers and scalable solutions that can be replicated globally.
Empower people
Equipping future workers requires access to learning courses to gain the skills 
required for in-demand jobs. LinkedIn Learning enables lifelong learning while connecting workers to jobs.
Access LinkedIn Learning
Get Microsoft role-based trainingPage 26Engage employers
Skills-based hiring and apprenticeships, like those from our partner Apprenti, help 
companies 	find	and	retain	qualified 	people	by	increasing 	employer 	connections 	to	
skilled candidates and creating pathways for workers.
Learn more about apprenticeships
HighlightsLearn about our progress to equip future workers and create pathways to  
21st-century jobs.
180,000 teachers 
trainedIn addition to teaching millions of youth digital skills and computer science, 
Microsoft grantees have trained more than 180,000 teachers who will go on to teach computer science around the world.
Find out more about our grantees
Bringing access 
to underserved 
communitiesOver 50 percent of the youth served globally through Microsoft partner-funded programs are female, and over 80 percent are from underserved communities.
Learn more about our programs
In 10 years almost 
75,000 students 
received CS EducationDuring the 2019-2020 school year, over 21,000 students in the US and British Columbia, Canada have access to AP Computer Science courses thanks to tech professionals who volunteer with the Microsoft Philanthropies TEALS Program. Almost 75,000 students have had access to CS courses since the program’s inception in 2009.
Learn more about TEALS
Competing in the 
digital economyThe Skillful program helps American workers, like Bylo Farmer, develop critical job skills. Through her own tenacity and the help of a Skillful job coach, Bylo has started over and changed careers, becoming a machinist after years of working at a women’s shelter in Boulder, Colorado.
Play the video of Bylo’s story
Providing 
future-ready 
skillsToday, 60 percent of schools don’t teach coding in their schools. With support from Microsoft, Code.org helps equip teachers at Frederick Douglass Elementary and other schools with tools to teach computer science in their classrooms—increasing test scores and providing students with future-ready skills.
Play the videoPage 27Get the bigger 
pictureExplore key resources to learn how we’re equipping individuals for success in 
an increasingly digital world.
Skills and 
employabilityWe’re working to help ensure that every person can build the skills and access the resources needed to succeed in a digital economy.
Learn more about our progress
TechSpark Rapid advancement in technology is creating new opportunities in a digital 
economy. But these opportunities remain out of reach for many in rural and remote communities, who often lack the broadband access, resources, or digital skills required to succeed. We are working to ensure that all people—not just 
those	in	the	biggest	cities—can 	benefit	from	the	opportunities 	the	digital	
economy provides.
Learn more about TechSparkPage 28EMPOWERING NONPROFITS
Microsoft is committed to ensuring nonprofits can advance their missions through digital 
transformation, enabled by secure and trusted technology.
Our commitment  
and approachNonprofits 	are	working	to	solve	the	world’s	most	challenging 	issues.	They	must	
have	access	to	relevant	and	affordable 	technology 	to	help	them	accelerate 	impact	
around the world. Microsoft Tech for Social Impact brings together the best of our 
commercial solutions with account teams, philanthropy, and engineering resources 
dedicated 	to	nonprofit 	digital	transformation. 	
Tech for Social 
ImpactSolutions
We	provide	innovative 	and	sector	specific	solutions 	for	nonprofits 	around	the	
world. Donations and discounts are available for cloud solutions including Microsoft 365, Power BI, Azure, and Dynamics 365. We deliver guidance and training like the 
Microsoft 	Digital	Skills	Center	for	Nonprofits 	to	help	nonprofits 	navigate 	digital	
transformation.
Partnerships
We believe technology can be a powerful force for social good, but we know 
technology alone won’t solve the world’s challenges. That’s why we partner closely 
with	governments, 	nonprofit 	consortiums, 	and	the	private	sector	to	foster	collective 	
action for sustainable development, disaster response and capacity building.
Support
We partner with Microsoft’s global ecosystem of partners who deliver services and 
solutions 	to	help	nonprofits 	get	the	most	out	of	technology.
Learn more about nonprofit technology
Employee giving Microsoft employees give generously to empower those most in need in our local 
communities and our world. Employee giving is part of our culture and how we live our mission.
Learn more about employee giving
Humanitarian 
actionWe	support	first	responder 	organizations 	through	technology 	donations 	and	
financial	support	during	response 	and	recovery 	efforts.	We	also	work	to	help	
organizations increase preparedness and get ahead of the response curve while improving their ability to respond to future disasters.
Learn more about humanitarian action
Community 
engagementAs one of Washington state’s largest employers, Microsoft works to enhance economic growth and create opportunities that protect and improve the quality of life for Washington state residents.
Learn more about our commitment to WA statePage 29HighlightsWe’ve	expanded 	our	support	for	the	nonprofit 	sector	over	the	last	year.	We	
work	closely	with	nonprofit 	organizations 	around	the	world	to	help	them	
accelerate their organizational transformation with technology.
Donations and 
employee givingMicrosoft 	matches	employee 	donations 	of	time	and	money	to	nonprofit 	
organizations 	of	their	choice.	In	fiscal	2019,	Microsoft 	has	donated	or	provided 	
discounted software and services worth more $1.5 billion via Microsoft 
Philanthropies. Our employees generously donated an additional $170 million (including company match) through our employee giving program to support 
nonprofits 	in	local	communities.
Learn more about commitment to nonprofits
Learn more about our employee engagement
Artificial intelligence 
to support refugees 
and displaced 
peopleLast year at the UN General Assembly, Microsoft built on its longstanding support 
to	humanitarian 	organizations 	with	AI	for	Humanitarian 	Action,	a	$40	million,	five-
year program. Through AI for Humanitarian Action, we are harnessing the power of 
artificial	intelligence 	and	machine	learning	to	improve	the	lives	of	over	70	million	
displaced people in the world, nearly 26 million of whom are refugees.
Learn more about the program
Making an impact 
across Washington 
StateAccess	to	affordable 	housing	is	a	major	barrier	to	equitable 	growth	and	this	year	we	
launched a major initiative to expand the housing options for people who work in the Puget Sound region where we are headquartered. We’re putting $500 million to 
work	in	loans	and	grants	to	accelerate 	the	construction 	of	more	affordable 	housing	
in the region.
Learn more about our commitment
Reporting 
resources 2019 Donations and Volunteerism Factsheet
2019 Donations & 
Volunteerism Data 
FactsheetSee	a	snapshot 	of	Microsoft 	donations 	and	volunteerism 	figures	over	the	
past three years.
Get the bigger 
pictureExplore	key	resources 	to	learn	more	about	our	work	to	empower 	nonprofits 	in	
their	work	to	make	a	difference 	in	our	communities 	around	the	world.	
Microsoft 
PhilanthropiesWe believe in a future where every person has the skills, knowledge, and opportunity to achieve more.
Learn more about our philanthropic work
Tech for Social Impact Learn	more	about	our	commitment 	to	nonprofits.
Visit the Nonprofit sitePage 30ACCESSIBILITY
At Microsoft, we believe there is no limit to what people can achieve. Especially when technology 
reflects the diversity of its users and is accessible to all.
Our commitment  
and approachMicrosoft is committed to designing products and services that can be used by 
everyone.
Over one billion people in the world have a disability and we’re passionate about 
ensuring that our products and services work for everyone. We understand the power of technology, and that’s why we continue to innovate, create, and design in a way that gives everyone the ability to achieve more.
We’ve found that many of our accessibility-focused innovations and features 
allow	us	to	deliver	richer,	more	flexible	experiences 	for	a	wider	range	of	users—
not just those with disabilities. We’re committed to transparency, accountability, 
and inclusion in our products and our culture, and we’re deeply inspired by the opportunity to work with people across the globe to explore what’s possible.
HighlightsWe’re building a diverse workforce through inclusive hiring programs and creating products that work for everyone.
Expanding 
accessibility 
featuresWe are committed to delivering technologies that empower everyone to  
achieve	more	and	have	released	significant 	accessibility 	enhancements 	in	our	
latest products.
Discover the new features
Driving 
innovationWe continue to push the limits of what’s possible with AI to empower people with disabilities through new innovations such as Seeing AI, Eye Control on Windows 10 , 
Xbox Adaptive Controller , and Translator .
Explore AI for Accessibilit y
Inclusive hiring 
programsTo build the best products for everyone, we need to have a diverse and inclusive workforce. Our inclusive hiring programs work to make that happen.
Learn about our hiring programsPage 31Get the bigger 
pictureLearn more about our commitment to designing products and services 
that work for everyone.
Microsoft 
accessibilityFind information on our accessibility programs, product features, guides, and additional resources.
Visit the accessibility site
Developer 
resourcesExplore tools and information you can use to create the next generation of accessible technology.
Discover developer resources
Inclusive 
designSee how we’re evolving our design system to operate in a complex world.
Learn about inclusive design
Microsoft 
accessibility 
feedbackShare your ideas on what products, features, and tools would delight you, or vote for ideas you see posted by others.
Provide accessibility feedbackPage 32
Protecting our planet
33
Environmental 
sustainabilityPage 33ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Microsoft is committed to leveraging technology to solve some of the world’s most urgent 
environmental issues—focusing on areas where we can have the greatest impact, including carbon, 
energy, water, and waste.
Our commitment  
and approachMicrosoft is committed to accelerating global progress towards a  
sustainable future.
Focus areas We focus on the areas where we can have the greatest impact, which include 
carbon, energy, water, and waste, across all the work we do.
Operations We’ve operated carbon neutral since 2012 and continue to reduce our emissions. We’re one of the largest purchasers of renewable energy in the United States. We use our campus as a living lab of innovation, always testing new ways to minimize our impact and maximize a positive return for the planet.
Learn more about our operations
Products, 
services, and 
devicesThe investments we make in sustainability carry through to our products, services and devices. We design our devices, from Surface to Xbox, with emphasis on eco-friendly materials. Our cloud and AI services help businesses cut energy consumption, reduce physical footprints, and design sustainable products themselves.
Learn more about our approach to sustainability
Customers and 
partnersWe’re committed to making our technology accessible and available to everyone. We’ve invested $50 million in AI for Earth, a program focused on putting AI in the hands of those working on the front lines to address sustainability challenges.
Learn about AI for Earth
Policy We advocate for a wide range of policies that drive emissions down, advance  
zero-carbon energy, and enhance economic opportunities. We are active in Washington, D.C.; in state capitals; and internationally to push for greater action.Page 34HighlightsIn 2019 we doubled down on sustainability with even stronger commitments to 
increase our use of renewable energy, advance research and development, and 
heighten 	product	carbon	efficiency 	goals.
Operational carbon 
emissionsWe’ve committed to a 75 percent reduction in carbon emissions by 2030 planned through continued carbon neutrality and energy commitments. In addition, we nearly doubled our internal carbon fee by raising it to $15 per metric ton on carbon emissions.
Learn more about our commitment
Increasing efficiency 
and renewable energy 
in our datacentersWe’re on target to achieve our goal of powering our datacenters with 60 percent renewable energy by the end of this year and aim to reach 70 percent renewable energy within the next four years.
See how we’re driving efficiencies
Learn about our renewable energy measures
Building 
sustainable 
campusesAt our headquarters in Redmond, Washington, we have started work to construct 17 new buildings totaling 2.5 million square feet. This new addition and the rest of our campus will run on 100 percent carbon-free electricity. We also set a goal to reduce the amount of carbon associated with the construction materials by 30 percent through a new online tool.
Learn about our sustainable campus plans
Learn more about our new online tool
Product packaging 
sustainabilityIn FY19, we continued to reduce the environmental impact of our packaging by applying a science-based approach and collaborating closely with our suppliers and industry partners. We improved the sustainability of our packaging by using less packaging material, selecting more sustainable materials, and optimizing manufacturing processes.
Learn more from our Devices Sustainability Report
Energy efficiency 
improvements in 
Surface ProMicrosoft works with its partners to develop hardware and software that increase computing power while reducing energy consumption. Illustrating these 
improvements, 	the	Surface	Pro,	using	Windows, 	has	become	so	energy	efficient	to	
operate that the customer-use phase of each device now accounts for a smaller portion of its overall GHG emissions than the manufacturing phase (assuming three years of use).
Learn more from our Devices Sustainability ReportPage 35Reporting 
resourcesEnvironmental Sustainability Data Factsheet (PDF)
Find more information on key environmental indicators including greenhouse gas 
emissions, energy consumption, water consumption and discharge, and waste through our downloadable report.
2018 CDP Climate Change Response (PDF)
Download our response to the annual CDP climate change questionnaire, covering 
the FY17 reporting period.
2018 CDP Water Response (PDF)
Download our response to the annual CDP water questionnaire, covering the FY17 reporting period.
Devices Sustainability at Microsoft (PDF)
Download the report to learn how we embed sustainability requirements directly 
into the business practices of our device organization and partners.
Get the bigger 
pictureExplore key resources to learn more about our environmental 
sustainability 	efforts.
Environment Learn more about how Microsoft is enabling a sustainable future through our environmental sustainability work.
Explore our environment site
Microsoft on 
the Issues: 
SustainabilityVisit our Microsoft on the Issues blog for the latest updates on our environmental 
sustainability 	efforts.
Visit the blog
Environmental 
compliance 
specificationsLearn	more	about	environmental 	compliance 	specifications 	for	Microsoft 	hardware, 	
packaging, and supplier conformance in our online hub.
Get details about our efforts
Responsible 
sourcing policyGet details on our strategy for the sourcing of raw materials for use in Microsoft our hardware products.
Download PDF of our policyPage 36
Resources
37
Reports hubPage 37REPORTS HUB
Report content 
and supplemental 
resourcesPlacing	a	premium 	on	transparency 	and	easy-to-find 	content,	our	reports	hub	
provides a single, consolidated view of key reports and resources related to 
our CSR programs and progress.
Letter from our CEO
Letter to Shareholders, CEO Satya Nadella
Facts about Microsoft
Subsidiaries
Operation centersFinancial dataEmployment information
CSR governance and reporting
CSR governance and reporting 
online summary
Stakeholder Engagement (PDF)UN Global Compact 
Communication on Progress
Microsoft Investor Relations Reports
Microsoft Proxy Statement
Microsoft Annual ReportsMicrosoft SEC Filings
Trust and responsibility
Digital trust reports
Law Enforcement Requests 
Report
U.S. National Security 
Orders ReportContent Removal Requests Report
Human rights
Microsoft Annual Human Rights Report (PDF) 
GNI 2018/2019 Company 
AssessmentsGNI Annual Report 
Microsoft Response: Business and Human Rights Resource CenterPage 38Empowering our employees
EEO-1 Report (PDF)
Affirmative action planWorkforce demographics
Public policy engagement
Advocacy and Trade 
Memberships (PDF)
MSPAC State Candidate 
Contributions H1 2019 (PDF)
MSPAC Federal Candidate 
Contributions H1 2019 (PDF)
MSPAC Non-Candidate 
Committee Contributions H1 2019 (PDF)Microsoft Corporate Political Contributions H1 2019 (PDF)
Public policy advocacy spending 
(PDF)
Microsoft Cloud policy roadmap
Responsible sourcing
Responsible Sourcing of Raw 
Materials Policy (PDF)
Top 100 Production Suppliers 
(PDF)
Devices sustainability report 
(PDF)Conflict Minerals Report (PDF)
Modern Slavery and Human 
Trafficking Statement (PDF)
Closing the opportunity gap
Accessibility 
Microsoft Accessibility Conformance Reports
Empowering nonprofits
Data factsheet: Donations and volunteerism 2019 (PDF)Page 39Protecting our planet
Data factsheet: Environmental 
sustainability 2018 (PDF)
Devices sustainability report (PDF)
CDP Climate Change Response (PDF)CDP Water Response (PDF)
CDP Climate Reports – CDP .net
CDP Water Reports – CDP .net
Archived reports
To	find	out	more	about	the	work	we’ve	accomplished 	in	previous 	years,	visit	our	
online CSR reports hub.