Environmental
Social
Governance
Report
Apple’s 2021 ESG ReportContents
 Introduction
3 
 L
etter from Tim Cook
4 
  O
ur approach 
 
Environment  Environmental
7  C limate change
10 
 R
esources
12 
 S
marter chemistry 
O
ur People 
 Social
14  I nclusion and diversity 16 
 S
upporting our people
17 
 B
enefits
18 
 C
ompensation
20 
 E
ngagement
20 
 W
orkplace practices and policies
21
 A
pple’s COVID-19 response
23 
 H
ealth and safety at Apple 
 
Customers
26 
 P
rivacy
28 
 A
ccessibility
29 
 E
ducation
31 
 H
ealth
33 
 C
aring for customers 
 
Suppliers
36 
 O
ur approach to supplier responsibility
37 
 P
artnering with our suppliers
40 
 S
upplier employees 
42 
 E
nvironment and the supply chain
43 
 W
orking in partnership 
 
Communities
45 
 C
ommunity initiatives
48 
 C
ommunity investments
51 
 J
ob creation
O
ur Business  Governance
53  C orporate governance55 
 O
ur commitment to human rights
56 
 E
thics and compliance
58 T
ax payments
58 
 S
takeholder engagement 
 
Appendix
60 
 A
wards and recognition
61 
 U
nited Nations Sustainable Development Goals
63 
 A
bout the report 
64 
 No
tes
ESG Index ↗︎
The rainbow arches at Apple Park in 
Cupertino, CA are a nod to Apple’s original logo and an expression of our inclusive values.This report contains forward-looking statements and actual results may differ. Numbers and percentages in this report include estimates or approximations and may be based on assumptions. For more information, see ‘About the report’.“At the heart of our work is a 
steadfast commitment to doing 
right by the planet and its people. We’re transparent about our ambitions and the steps we’re taking toward them, because we know the global challenges we’re tackling—and their solutions—are bigger than any one company or individual.”
Lisa  Jackson  
Vice President Environment, Policy and Social InitiativesAt Apple, we are optimistic about technology’s awesome potential for good. 
But we know that it won’t happen on its own. Every day, we work to infuse 
the products and services we make with decency and humanity. And we 
strive to build the best products on earth while leaving the world better 
than we found it.
Living up to that commitment means staying true to the values that have defined Apple from the 
beginning. It means innovating to protect people’s privacy, which we believe is a fundamental human 
right. It means creating technology that is accessible for all people. It means building a company culture 
that is inclusive and a team that represents the diversity of our world. It means treating our colleagues, 
customers, and supply chain partners with dignity and respect, and protecting the planet we all share.
In all this, we’re mindful that global challenges like climate change must be tackled not just by 
governments but by innovative companies. We are proud to be carbon neutral today, and we’ve 
set an ambitious goal to make our entire worldwide supply chain and the use of our products carbon 
neutral by 2030. We’re also partnering with nonprofit and community leaders to help students access 
a quality education and learn vital skills like coding, to break down systemic barriers to opportunity 
in our economy, and to invest in the next generation of diverse entrepreneurs and problem-solvers.
This report comes in the wake of a year defined by the COVID-19 pandemic, and from its earliest 
days, the first question we asked ourselves was, “how can we help?” We met an urgent call to action 
by working with our partners to source millions of masks, designing and manufacturing millions of face 
shields, and supporting medical workers and first responders however we could. No period has taught 
us more about protecting each other’s health, and we plan to carry the lessons we’re learning with us 
long into the future.
At Apple, we are pushing this work forward every day, and we’re deeply committed to measuring our 
efforts and improving upon them—day by day and year by year. We do so in the belief that at its best, 
technology can empower people, enrich their lives, and help everyone participate in the always-urgent 
work of building a better world.
Tim Cook  
CEO
Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   3 Introduction We are committed to demonstrating that business can and should be a force 
for good. Achieving that takes innovation, collaboration, and a focus on serving 
others. It also means leading with our values  in the technology we make, the way 
we make it, and how we care for people and the planet we share. We’re always 
working to leave the world better than we found it, and to create powerful tools  
that empower others to do the same.
The initiatives described in this report speak to our long-standing commitment to 
advancing initiatives across Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) efforts.Our approach 
Environmental
We consider our environmental impact in everything we do:
• We’re carbon neutral for our own operations, 
including business travel and employee 
commute, and are progressing toward an 
urgent goal to be carbon neutral across our 
entire business—including the full life cycle 
of our products—by 2030. 
• We’re on an ambitious journey to one day 
make our products using only recycled or 
renewable materials. • We design our products to be safe for anyone 
who assembles, uses, or recycles them—and 
to be better for the environment.
In all this work, we’re partnering with communities 
and local leaders to make sure our environmental 
efforts are also a force for equity and justice.Read more about our  
work to protect the  
Environment  (p6)
Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   4 Introduction Social 
At Apple, we work every day to put people first:
• We’re committed to inclusion and diversity. 
And we’re investing in programs to ensure more 
positive outcomes for communities of color.
• We have programs and benefits to support the 
development of all of our team members.
• We continue to prioritize the health and safety of 
our teams, customers, supplier employees, and 
communities.
• We engineer privacy and security into everything 
we make, and we are always raising the bar to 
protect people’s data.
• We design our products and services to be 
accessible for the widest range of users.• We find innovative ways to give parents, 
students, and educators the tools to engage 
their creativity and explore the world around 
them, with a specific focus on communities too 
often denied opportunities.
• We’re accelerating social change by investing 
in communities and organizations that are 
addressing society’s toughest problems. 
• We hold ourselves and our suppliers to the 
highest standards of labor and human rights, 
health and safety, environmental protections, 
and ethics.Read more about 
our work to support 
Our People  (p13)
Customers  (p25)
Suppliers  (p35)
Communities  (p44)
Governance 
We embed transparency and accountability at every level of our  company:
• Apple’s Board and governance structure helps 
foster principled actions, informed and effective 
decision-making, and appropriate monitoring of 
our compliance and performance.• Apple’s Human Rights Policy governs how 
we treat everyone, including our customers, 
employees, business partners, and people 
at every level of our supply chain. 
• We’re committed to conducting business 
ethically, honestly, and in full compliance 
with applicable laws and regulations. Read more about 
how we operate 
Our Business  (p52)Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   5 Introduction   
Environment
In this section
Climate change 7
Resources  10
Smarter chemistry  12To support our Prineville, OR data center, 
we signed a 200-megawatt power 
purchase agreement for a new wind farm 
in Oregon—the Montague Wind Power 
Facility—which entered commercial 
operation at the end of 2019. It’s our 
largest project to date, producing over 
562 million kWh of clean, renewable 
energy a year. Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   6 Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities EnvironmentOur work is led by Lisa 
Jackson, Apple’s Vice 
President of Environment, 
Policy and Social Initiatives, 
reporting directly to CEO 
Tim Cook. The Office 
of Environment, Policy 
and Social Initiatives 
works with teams across 
Apple to set strategy, 
engage stakeholders, 
and communicate progress. 
Our integrated approach 
means that decisions 
about Apple’s values, 
including environment, 
are reviewed and supported 
at the highest levels of 
the company.We are committed to creating products that enrich the lives of our customers 
in a way that protects the earth’s resources that we all share. In 2018, we 
reached our goal of sourcing all electricity for our stores, data centers, and 
offices from renewable sources. Then in 2020, Apple became carbon neutral 
for our worldwide operations, including business travel and employee commute. 
We are now tackling the remainder of our footprint with an ambitious goal to 
make our products carbon neutral by 2030—from our supply chain to the 
energy customers use to power our devices.  
Our strategy focuses on three interconnected areas: climate change, resources, 
and smarter chemistry. Our comprehensive carbon footprint informs the work 
we do to reduce our emissions, including our roadmap to carbon neutrality. 
Within our resources pillar, we’re working to make our products using only 
recycled and renewable materials and eliminate plastic from our packaging.  
And we are committed to using safer materials to create better products 
for those who design, make, use, and recycle them. All the work we do aims 
to improve environmental health, not just for our customers, suppliers, and 
employees, but also for broader global communities. 
Climate change
As climate change increasingly threatens 
biodiversity and puts people’s access to clean 
air, adequate food, safe drinking water, and homes 
at risk, we believe we have a responsibility to take 
urgent and decisive action. 
Since April 2020, Apple has been carbon neutral 
across all of our corporate emissions, including our 
stores, data centers, and corporate facilities, as 
well as business travel and employee commuting. 
We started by investing in clean energy around the 
world. Since 2018, Apple has sourced 100 percent 
of its corporate and retail electricity from 
100 percent renewable sources.
In 2020, we unveiled an ambitious plan to achieve 
carbon neutrality for our entire carbon footprint, 
including our products, by 2030. We plan to reach 
this goal by reducing our emissions by 75 percent 
compared to 2015,1 and by investing in carbon 
removal solutions for the remaining emissions.Our 10-year climate roadmap will address Apple’s 
carbon footprint through the following five pillars:
• Low-carbon design:  We’re making products 
with more recycled materials and working to 
reduce the amount of energy our devices use.
• Energy efficiency:  We’re using energy more 
efficiently across retail stores, offices, data 
centers, and manufacturing sites.
• Renewable electricity: We’re committed to 
transitioning our entire manufacturing supply 
chain to 100 percent renewable electricity 
generated from solar, wind, and other 
renewable projects.
• Direct emissions abatement:  We’re innovating 
and improving the processes in our facilities 
and supply chain to reduce greenhouse  
gas emissions.
• Carbon removal:  We’re investing in working 
forests and ecosystem restoration in ways that 
respect communities and remove carbon from 
the atmosphere.We’re leveraging the funds 
from Apple’s €2 billion 
(about $2.2 billion) bond 
issuance in 2019 to help 
meet our climate neutrality 
goal. Read about the 
projects funded over the 
last year in our 2020 Green 
Bond Report . To date, Apple 
has issued about $4.7 billion 
in green bonds.
Read more about our 
environmental efforts in 
our 2021 Environmental 
Progress Report , including 
information about Apple’s 
renewable energy  projects .Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   7 EnvironmentProgress toward neutrality 
In 2020, we became carbon neutral for our 
corporate operations. To reach carbon neutrality 
for the full life cycle of our products by 2030, we’ve 
swiftly been deploying innovations at scale—like 
decarbonizing materials used in our products, 
rapidly deploying renewable energy across our 
operations and our supply chain, and launching 
a first-of-its-kind fund to invest in nature-based 
carbon removal solutions.
In 2020, Apple’s comprehensive carbon footprint 
was 22.6 million metric tons. We’ve decreased this 
footprint by 40 percent since 2015, our baseline 
year, even as net revenue has increased. In 2020 
alone, we avoided more than 15 million metric tons 
of carbon emissions by using low-carbon materials, 
driving energy efficiency, and switching to clean 
energy. Since 2011, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
have declined by 73 percent, and we had zero 
Scope 2 electricity-related emissions for the 
second year in a row.
Low-carbon design
We believe that well-designed products have a 
lower environmental footprint. Our carbon footprint 
helps us identify opportunities to reduce the 
carbon intensity of our product designs through 40% 
decrease in emissions 
across our entire value 
chain since 2015.
100% 
renewable energy sourced 
for all Apple facilities.
110+ 
suppliers in 24 countries 
committed to 100 percent  
renewable electricity for 
Apple production.
Read more about our 
efforts to tackle climate 
change, including risks and 
opportunities, in our 2021 
Environmental Progress 
Report  and our CDP 
Climate Change  response .material efficiency, use of low-carbon materials, 
and product energy efficiency. For example, several 
of our products use 100 percent recycled aluminum 
in their enclosures, helping reduce our carbon 
emissions associated with aluminum by 72 percent 
since 2015. 
Product energy use accounts for 19 percent of our 
carbon footprint, so we’ve set aggressive targets 
to reduce this. By addressing this in the earliest 
design phases, the average product energy use 
across all our major product lines has declined by 
more than 70 percent since 2008.2 And in fiscal 
year 2020, 100 percent of our eligible products 
received an ENERGY STAR rating for superior 
energy efficiency.3
Energy efficiency
Our energy efficiency goals extend well beyond 
our products. We’re focused on using less energy 
across our operations and in our supply chain. 
At our facilities, we track energy use and explore 
ways to save energy: renovating and retrofitting 
older locations, designing new facilities with energy 
efficiency in mind, and working with local utilities on 
energy efficiency strategies. 
In total, Apple-created renewable energy account for 90 percent of the renewable electricity our facilities use, 
and include wind projects in Viborg, Denmark, and Prineville, Oregon (pictured above).Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   8 EnvironmentThe Impact Accelerator
To ensure that our work to protect the planet also helps advance 
equity, Apple has launched an Impact Accelerator  for Black- and 
Brown-owned businesses.5 The Accelerator expands access to 
opportunity in sectors like renewable energy, carbon removal, 
and recycling innovation. We are making investments in these 
sectors to help fight systemic barriers impacting communities 
that are disproportionately affected by environmental issues 
like climate change. With customized training, access to Apple 
experts, and an expanding alumni community, our Impact 
Accelerator is tailored to support companies as they pursue 
their next stage of development.
The Impact Accelerator is just one of many efforts within Apple’s 
$100 million Racial Equity and Justice Initiative , which focuses on 
education, economic equality, and criminal justice reform in the 
United States. With our partners, we aim to redefine business as 
usual and drive progress toward a more equitable future.
Fifteen Black- and Brown-owned green technology and clean energy businesses are joining 
Apple’s inaugural Impact Accelerator, part of the company’s Racial Equity and Justice Initiative. “Systemic racism and climate change 
are not separate issues, and they will 
not abide separate solutions.”
Lisa Jackson
Vice President of Environment, Policy and Social InitiativesTo address emissions from manufacturing, which 
account for approximately 70 percent of our carbon 
footprint, we’ve continued to scale up our Supplier 
Energy Efficiency Program. This program helps 
suppliers that use significant amounts of energy 
to reduce their energy use. In 2020, more than 
900,000 annualized metric tons of supply chain 
carbon emissions were avoided, a 44 percent 
improvement over 2019.4
Renewable electricity
Our stores, data centers, and offices currently 
source 100 percent renewable energy, which 
reduces emissions while also offering greater 
control over electricity supply and reducing 
exposure to cost fluctuations. 
And we’ve made tremendous progress toward 
our goal of transitioning our entire manufacturing 
supply chain to 100 percent renewable electricity 
by 2030. Launched in 2015, our Supplier Clean 
Energy Program  has already brought over  
4 gigawatts of additional renewable energy online 
to our supply chain, with additional supplier 
commitments bringing the total to nearly 8 
gigawatts. The renewable energy already online 
generated 11.4 million megawatt-hours of clean 
energy in fiscal year 2020, avoiding 8.6 million 
metric tons of carbon emissions in our supply chain.
Direct emissions abatement
To address the emissions associated with our 
materials and manufacturing processes, we 
seek technological solutions through emissions 
abatement or switching to low-carbon fuel options. 
For example, we have helped fund research 
and development for ELYSIS , a technology 
that eliminates direct GHG emissions from 
aluminum smelting. And we’ve started to use 
ELYSIS  aluminum in production of the 16-inch 
MacBook Pro. 
Many components of Apple products, including 
integrated circuit chips and display panels, rely 
on manufacturing processes that use fluorinated 
gases with a high global warming potential. We’re 
partnering with key manufacturers to optimize 
manufacturing processes, reduce the use of these 
gases, and deploy abatement technologies to limit 
any emissions.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   9 EnvironmentFor more information about 
the responsible sourcing 
of the materials used in 
our products, read Apple’s 
People and Environment 
in Our Supply Chain report 
and our Conflict Minerals 
Report on our Supplier 
Responsibility  website.65%
less plastic in packaging 
since 2015—progressing 
toward our goal to eliminate 
plastics from packaging 
by 2025.
39,000
metric tons of e-waste 
sent to recycling in fiscal 
year 2020.
Resources
Our efforts to conserve resources are directly 
connected to the creation of our products, and 
span both our own operations and those of our 
suppliers. We focus on three main areas: 
• Materials:  Transition to only recycled or 
renewable materials in our products and 
packaging, and maximize material efficiency, 
product longevity, and recovery. 
• Water stewardship:  Reduce freshwater use, 
transition to alternative sources, improve the 
quality of the water we discharge, and protect 
shared water resources. 
• Zero waste to landfill:  Minimize overall waste 
generated and eliminate waste sent to landfill 
from key manufacturing facilities, corporate 
offices, data centers, and retail stores.
Materials
We’re using three different levers to reduce 
our footprint and achieve circularity: sourcing 
and efficiency; product longevity; and product 
end-of-life.Sourcing and efficiency
Our goal is to use only recycled and renewable 
materials in our products and packaging, and 
to use these materials more efficiently. And we 
source materials responsibly, whether from virgin, 
recycled, or renewable sources. In fiscal year 
2020, we released seven products with more than 
20 percent recycled content. The MacBook Air 
with Retina display (2020) contains 40 percent 
of material from recycled sources, including 
100 percent recycled aluminum in the enclosure. 
And in October 2020, we introduced iPhone 12 
and iPhone 12 Pro, the first Apple products made 
with 99 percent recycled tungsten and 98 percent 
recycled rare earth elements.
Product longevity
We want to make the most of the materials we 
use through designing long-lasting products. 
We design durable hardware, leverage software 
updates to extend functionality, provide convenient 
access to repair services, refurbish devices for 
their next user, and reuse parts that still have 
more to give.Carbon removal
To address the emissions we can’t avoid, we need 
to take active steps to remove carbon dioxide (CO 2) 
from the atmosphere. We invest in nature-based 
solutions that protect and restore forests, wetlands, 
and grasslands, which store carbon drawn from 
the atmosphere. Partnering with Conservation 
International and Goldman Sachs, Apple will invest 
up to $200 million through the Restore Fund, which 
aims to remove more than 1 million metric tons of 
CO 2 per year in its pilot phase. The Restore Fund 
will align with international standards to ensure that 
the carbon stored in forests is being conservatively 
and accurately quantified and is permanently 
locked out of the atmosphere. We are also closely 
engaging with local and indigenous communities to 
respect and protect their rights and livelihoods. Climate scenario analysis
Looking to the future, we conducted a climate 
scenario analysis to better understand the potential 
effects of climate change on Apple’s business. 
To align with the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations, 
we considered a range of scenarios, including one 
well below 2° Celsius. The analysis highlighted how 
our renewable energy program, carbon neutrality 
goals, and emissions reduction target aligned 
with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) 
could improve our resiliency to the impacts of 
climate change.10.4M
devices refurbished for new 
users in fiscal year 2020.6 Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   10 Environment41B
gallons of water saved 
through our supplier Clean 
Water program since 2013.
Read more about our efforts 
to conserve resources in 
our 2021 Environmental 
Progress  Report .Dianshan Lake is located in the Kunshan watershed, where four Apple suppliers have earned Alliance for 
Water Stewardship certifications. Product end-of-life 
We are enhancing product collection and recycling 
innovation, so we and others can use old devices 
as raw material sources. We continue to provide 
product take-back and recycling collection 
programs in 99 percent of the countries where 
we sell products. And we’ve continued to expand 
methods for recovering materials from our 
products. Daisy, a robot designed to disassemble 
iPhone devices, has now been joined by Dave, 
which dismantles Taptic Engines from iPhone to 
enable the recovery of materials like rare earth 
magnets, tungsten, and steel. And in Austin, Texas, 
we’ve launched a Material Recovery Lab, where our 
team works on developing better, more efficient 
recycling technologies. 
Water stewardship
Water is an essential shared resource and vital 
to our operations. To address the water footprint 
of our corporate and suppliers’ sites, we aim to 
use water efficiently, transition from freshwater 
to alternative sources, discharge used water 
responsibly, and pursue water stewardship to 
keep watersheds healthy.
In fiscal year 2020, Apple facilities used 1.29 billion 
gallons of water, about 54 percent of which we 
discharged back into the watershed.7 Freshwater 
comprised about 90 percent of our corporate water 
use, with the balance made up from recycled water 
and other alternative sources. 
We saved 111 million gallons of freshwater in fiscal 
year 2020 due to efficiency projects implemented 
at Apple facilities since 2017.8 We prioritize those 
areas with high water risk, where approximately 
46 percent of our corporate water use occurs. 
In addition, our Prineville, Oregon, data center 
became the first Apple-owned or operated 
site—and the first data center worldwide—to 
achieve certification by the Alliance for Water 
Stewardship (AWS).Recognizing that far more water is used within 
our supply chain, we partner with our suppliers to 
identify and implement water-saving improvements 
through our supplier Clean Water program. We 
encourage performance that goes far beyond 
compliance—to date, 13 supplier facilities have 
received AWS certification, of which 10 were 
Platinum status, the highest recognition level. 
Zero waste
We’re working toward waste-free operations in 
which we rely on recyclable or reusable materials 
and send nothing to landfill. Our Prineville data 
center, for example, is the first Apple facility to 
receive TRUE certification at the Platinum level, 
meaning more than 90 percent of its waste is sent 
to recycling or composting. Such efforts helped 
limit the amount of waste sent to landfill to about 
12,000 metric tons for our global operations.
Helping our suppliers eliminate waste from 
manufacturing is also essential to realizing our zero 
waste goals. In 2015, we launched our supplier 
Zero Waste Program, through which more than 
165 participating facilities can access guidance 
and tools to improve waste management. Suppliers 
diverted over 400,000 metric tons of waste from 
landfill in 2020, bringing the total to 1.65 million 
metric tons diverted since 2015. 100%
All established final 
assembly sites are now 
Zero Waste certified.9 Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   11 Environment1400+ 
new materials evaluated 
for safety.100%
of supplier final assembly 
sites use safer cleaners.
Our restrictions on 
potentially harmful 
chemicals are outlined 
in the Apple Regulated 
Substances Specification  
and in our Restricted 
Chemicals for Prolonged 
Skin Contact Materials  list.Smarter chemistry
We’re committed to using safer materials to create 
safer products.
Our smarter chemistry strategy covers three areas:
• Mapping and engagement:  Engage our 
supply chain partners to build a comprehensive 
inventory of chemicals used in our products and 
go beyond regulatory compliance.
• Assessment:  Assess the potential human health 
and environmental risks of chemicals to evaluate 
compliance with our requirements—including 
our Regulated Substances Specification—and 
inform product design.
• Innovation:  Exceed regional requirements by 
innovating safer alternatives and improving how 
we and our suppliers manage potential risks 
of chemicals.
Mapping and engagement
Our commitment to smarter chemistry starts 
with a deep understanding of the materials and 
chemistries used to make our products. In 2016, 
we launched the Full Material Disclosure program 
to catalog and map every chemical our products 
contain. Each supplier is required to report the 
materials used to manufacture Apple products, 
using our library of over 40,000 materials to 
accurately identify each material.
We prioritize the health and safety of the people 
who make our products. Our Supplier Code of 
Conduct  and Supplier Responsibility Standards  
set clear workplace safety requirements, and our 
Chemical Safety Disclosure program advances 
disclosure around the chemistries used in 
manufacturing processes. We have identified 
14,000 unique chemicals and applications, 
enabling us to remove those that don’t meet 
our standards. Assessment
With our products, we aim to make the best 
chemical and material choices to protect both 
personal and environmental health. Our Regulated 
Substances Specification sets standards for the 
chemicals in our products and manufacturing 
processes, which exceed many regional 
regulatory requirements.
Apple’s Environmental Testing Lab performs  
chemical analyses to evaluate the safety of our 
products and materials and to monitor compliance 
with the specifications. Our assessment system  
helps ensure that only materials that meet our 
stringent requirements can be used in Apple 
products. Each year, we conduct more than 100 
assessments on chemicals before they are used  
in our manufacturing processes.
Innovation
Our efforts to map and assess the chemicals within 
our supply chain ultimately fuel innovations at Apple 
and with our suppliers. We use toxicology data at 
each point in the product life cycle to seek out and 
develop safer chemistries, continually improving 
the overall safety of our products and processes. 
Since the late 1990s, we have diligently identified 
and removed potentially harmful chemicals from 
our products. This has required developing 
alternatives by creating safer compounds 
to replace potentially harmful chemistries or 
replacing components with alternatives that 
meet our safety standards.
We’re also partnering with nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs) to cascade our materials 
data throughout the electronics industry. Through 
Chem FORWARD , we are able to share our list of 
safer cleaners and degreasers with companies 
beyond our supply chain and outside our industry. 
We’ve also worked with the Clean Electronics 
Production Network to develop the Process 
Chemicals Data Collection Tool, which supports 
data collection on process chemicals used in the 
electronics industry.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   12 EnvironmentOur 
People
In this section
Inclusion and diversity  14
Supporting our people  16
Benefits  17
Compensation  18
Engagement  20
Workplace practices and policies  20
Apple’s COVID-19 response  21
Health and safety at Apple 23At Apple, we’re committed to 
supporting our team members 
at work and beyond.Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   13 Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Our PeopleDeirdre O’Brien is Apple’s 
Senior Vice President of 
Retail + People, reporting to 
CEO Tim Cook. In her role 
leading the People team, 
Deirdre works to help Apple 
connect with, develop, and 
care for its team members—
and to help everyone do the 
best work of their lives. As 
the leader of Apple’s retail 
and online teams, Deirdre 
supports their work to enrich 
the lives of millions of Apple 
customers every year. Inclusion and diversity
Across Apple, we’re strengthening our long-  
standing commitment to making our company 
more inclusive and diverse. We’re committed 
to hiring inclusively, providing training and 
development opportunities, fostering an 
inclusive culture, and ensuring equitable pay for 
all employees. And we’re continuing to focus on 
increasing diverse representation at every level of 
the company to help Apple become an even better 
reflection of the world we live in. 
Our work here doesn’t stop at our own doors. 
With efforts like our Racial Equity and Justice 
Initiative (REJI), we’re working to expand access 
to education, support criminal justice reform, 
and advance economic opportunities for 
underrepresented communities.
Inclusive hiring and 
diverse representation
We’re making progress toward building an Apple 
community that represents the diverse and 
ever-changing world around us. Since 2014, the 
number of employees from underrepresented 
communities (URCs) has increased by 64 percent 
in the U.S. and the number of female employees 
worldwide has grown more than 70 percent.To build upon this growth, we’re creating diverse 
interview panels and candidate slates to ensure 
that diversity is reflected at every stage of the 
hiring process. And we’re focusing on robust 
diversity recruiting efforts for R&D and leadership 
to accelerate progress in hiring across technical, 
engineering, and leadership roles. In 2020, 
43 percent of open leadership roles were filled by 
people from underrepresented communities in the 
U.S., and 37 percent of open leadership roles were 
filled by women globally.
We’re also expanding our diversity outreach 
efforts through organizations like Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and 
Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) that serve 
and engage talent from underrepresented 
communities. Since 2014, the number of Hispanic/
Latinx employees in the U.S. has grown by more 
than 80 percent with a 90 percent increase in 
leadership, while the number of Black employees 
in the U.S. has grown by more than 50 percent 
with a 60 percent increase in leadership.We have a talented, motivated, and dedicated team at Apple, and we’re 
committed to supporting the development of all our team members. 
We’re continuously building on our strong culture, creating an environment 
where everyone can be their whole selves and do the best work of their lives.
In a year that brought challenges and hardship to so many, we’ve also ensured 
that our teams around the world receive the support they need to care for their 
health, safety, and physical and mental well-being.
We’re making progress and 
we’re holding ourselves 
accountable to do even more. 
To learn more and to see our 
latest diversity figures, visit 
apple.com/diversity .1064%
increase in U.S. employees 
from underrepresented 
communities since 2014.
70%
increase in global  
population of women 
at Apple since 2014. Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   14 Our PeopleWhere we stand today
We have over 160,000 talented employees 
across the world. And we are proud that when 
people join Apple, they find fulfillment for many 
years. That also means increasing overall 
representation takes time.
Every hiring decision is made one role, and one 
person, at a time. We are taking meaningful 
actions for more diverse representation across 
every part of the business. Because just 1 percent 
of over a hundred thousand represents change 
for over a thousand people.
 “Inclusion and diversity are cornerstones 
of the global Apple community. We’re 
proud of the foundation we’ve built, and 
we’re clear-eyed about the challenges 
that remain. Together, we’re committed 
to continuing this journey with humility 
and resolve.”
Barbara Whye
Vice President of Inclusion & DiversityTraining and resources
Apple team members have access to career 
development programs, ongoing inclusion and 
diversity education, and support throughout 
their career journey. From new-hire orientation 
to talent planning and mentorship, we’re always 
finding new ways to help team members continue 
to learn, thrive, and advance in their careers in an 
inclusive environment.
All of our team members are required to complete 
unconscious bias and inclusion training, and can 
access expert-led courses on race, justice, allyship, 
and more. In addition, all our managers are required 
to take inclusive leadership training, and inclusion 
and diversity measures are built into our annual 
review process for leaders across Apple.
Community and connection
For more than 30 years, Apple team members  
have found community and connection in our 
Diversity Network Associations (DNAs).  
Rooted in the celebration and amplification  
of culturally underrepresented communities,  
DNAs are employee groups that create spaces 
for belonging, learning, and growing inclusivity, 
diversity, and equity efforts.  As of August 2021, DNA membership has more 
than doubled since 2018, with more than 54,000 
employees. Our DNA communities include 
Accessibility@Apple, Amigos@Apple, Apple 
Veterans Association, Asian Pacific@Apple, 
Black@Apple, Indigenous@Apple, Pride@Apple, 
South Asian@Apple, and Women@Apple, as well 
as a range of faith -based and cultural groups. 
Throughout the year, to deepen connection and 
understanding, DNAs regularly lead celebrations, 
events, and educational sessions that are open to 
everyone across the company.160,000  hrs
In 2020, team members 
completed nearly 160,000 
hours of learning to 
create more inclusive 
work environments.  Under 30        OverallU.S. Underrepresented 
Community Representation
49%62%
44%
2014 202048%Global Female Representation
31%40%
30%
2014 202034%Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   15 Our PeopleSupporting our people
From their first day, Apple team members have 
the resources and opportunities to build new skill 
sets, pursue new passions, and feel supported 
and cared for at work and beyond. 
Growth and development
Team members across Apple have ongoing 
opportunities to learn and grow through 
challenging work, collaboration with other experts, 
and ongoing support. In 2020, we invested nearly 
$200 million in training and programs to support 
our teams’ growth and development.
• Apple University: Apple University began 
in 2010 with a simple mission—to foster 
understanding and critical thinking about 
Apple’s culture, organization, and values. To 
date, more than 90 percent of current executives 
and managers have participated in a variety of 
individual, manager, and senior leader classes.• Growth and development framework:   
We provide our teams with individual growth 
and development plans to shape their careers 
and identify their goals, including planning 
worksheets, manager toolkits, and a dedicated 
internal web page.
• Management and leadership:  Apple helps 
our teams progress to leadership, creating 
development pathways that enable individuals  
to learn, improve, and empower their colleagues 
to do the best work of their lives.
• Professional growth: We offer a variety of 
educational seminars, external speakers, guest 
creative performances, and comprehensive 
resources to support professional growth. 
Our Educational Assistance Program also offers 
helpful resources and tuition reimbursement for 
team members to continue their education.
We provide our teams with individual growth and development plans to help shape their careers.Read the Harvard Business 
Review article  about 
how Apple’s distinctive 
organizational model is key 
to inspiring innovation.Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   16 Our PeopleBenefits
We recognize that our people thrive when they 
have the resources to meet their needs and the 
time and support to succeed in their professional 
and personal lives. We provide a host of benefits 
to help our teams live healthier, more fulfilled, and 
happier lives at work and beyond.11
Physical and mental well-being
Apple provides employees a wide variety of 
health-related benefits, including:
• Physical and mental health coverage that also 
extends to spouses and domestic partners
• Virtual and onsite wellness visits for employees 
and eligible dependents
• Free, confidential counseling for employees and 
their dependents12• Reproductive health services covering 
contraception, pregnancy, and menopause, 
as well as prenatal care, pregnancy and 
delivery, and postnatal care13
• Expert second opinion resources to help 
employees and their family members make 
informed healthcare decisions
• A comprehensive mental health and well-being 
hub where employees can find events, apps, and 
other resources
• Month-long wellness events for team members 
across Apple to support one another and build 
healthier habits
Our health plans are designed to support the 
various life stages of our employees and their 
families. They are transgender-inclusive, where 
legally and plan-allowed, and support routine care, 
therapies, and other medically necessary surgeries.• Career experience:  Career experiences 
provide team members from our stores, retail 
customer care, and AppleCare teams the 
opportunity to spend time on a corporate career 
rotation. Participants build new skills, while host 
teams benefit from their team members’ new 
perspectives, talent, and passion. Participation 
has grown by 30 percent year on year since it 
began in 2015, and in fiscal year 2021, thousands 
of upcoming opportunities are planned across 
80 percent of our lines of business.
• Coaching at Apple:  This training program for 
retail leaders in stores, retail customer care, and 
corporate retail teams provides a consistent 
and effective model for improving employee 
engagement and performance. More than  
110 senior Apple Store leaders and People  
team leaders are certified to deliver Coaching  
at Apple, and more than 4200 have been 
trained in the content.• Internal mobility: We encourage our teams to 
discover new opportunities at Apple that spark 
their interest and draw on their skills. We provide 
an internal career site, detailed guidance 
on exploring new roles, and we encourage 
discussions with managers so they can support 
their team members’ growth at Apple.
Performance reviews
Our annual performance review process offers 
team members the opportunity to have meaningful 
conversations with their managers about their 
performance, growth, and development. Reviews 
include a self-assessment and feedback from 
peers and their manager. It’s also a chance to 
reflect on the contribution each person makes 
to Apple’s long-standing commitment to 
inclusion and diversity.Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   17 Our PeopleLife and family
Apple also provides a host of benefits to support 
our employees in their personal and family 
life, including:
• Retirement programs to help employees with their 
future financial needs, such as 401k matching 
contributions in the U.S. and local retirement 
plans for employees outside of the U.S. 
• Referrals and resources for childcare, before- 
and after-school programs, programs for 
children with special needs, and more
• Consultations and referrals to support 
employees caring for an elderly family member
• Adoption, surrogacy, and fertility services
• Financial coaching services
• Tuition reimbursement
• Legal services for adoption, child support, 
housing, wills, identity theft, and more
Coming back to work after the arrival of a child can 
be a big adjustment for employees, so to smooth 
the transition period following the arrival of a new 
family member, under our gradual return-to-work 
program, employees can choose to return half-time 
at full pay for four weeks—whether they’re 
welcoming a child through birth, adoption, or other 
covered means.Time away
Taking the time to recharge is an important part 
of employee health and well-being. We provide 
a wide variety of time-away options for our 
employees, including:
• Vacation
• Paid sick time and medical leave for serious 
health conditions
• Pregnancy leave and New Parent Leave
• Leave for bereavement or to care for a sick  
family member
• Time off for voting, jury duty, and other 
civil obligations
• Company holidays throughout the year 
Product discounts
Apple’s Employee Purchase Plan offers special 
pricing on most Apple products. We offer 
substantial discounts on hardware, software, and 
accessories for employees, families, and friends— 
as well as an additional credit that can be used to 
purchase a Mac, iPad, or unlocked iPhone once 
every two years.
Compensation
At Apple, we believe that our compensation 
should not only be competitive; it should be 
equitable and enable all employees to share in 
the company’s success as shareholders of Apple. 
We’re committed to being a leader in pay equity, 
using pay gap metrics to measure our progress 
on representation, providing all employees 
annual opportunities for stock ownership in 
the company, and paying a highly competitive 
minimum wage. And we hold our leaders 
accountable by incorporating Apple values and key 
community initiatives into our executive short-term 
incentive compensation.Pay equity
Apple has a firm and long-standing commitment 
to pay equity. Since 2017, we have achieved 
pay equity globally: In every country where we 
operate, team members of all genders earn 
the same when engaging in similar work with 
comparable experience and performance. In the 
United States, the same is true for employees of 
all race and ethnicities. 100%
At Apple, women and 
men earn the same when 
engaging in similar work with 
comparable experience and 
performance.Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   18 Our People• Annual pay equity review: To maintain pay 
equity, we engage a third party to independently 
evaluate compensation across all of Apple 
using statistical modeling. This rigorous review 
considers annual total compensation, including 
base salary, bonuses, and Restricted Stock Units 
(RSUs), as well as a variety of data related to 
pay, including job level, location, performance 
ratings, and tenure. We also regularly conduct 
comprehensive job title reviews to ensure 
employees are in the correct job title, an 
important factor in determining pay.
• Annual compensation planning:  During our 
annual compensation planning process, the 
People team uses analytics to assess promotion 
rates, performance ratings distribution, and pay 
metrics for women compared to men and, in the 
U.S., for underrepresented groups compared to 
non-underrepresented groups.
• Global compensation history policy:  We 
don’t ask candidates for salary history during 
the recruiting process, which has been our 
policy globally since 2019. To help ensure 
internal equity, our recruiters develop offers of 
employment based on the compensation of 
current Apple employees in similar roles using 
a tool developed specifically for this purpose.$1 billion
By the end of 2021, over 
$1 billion of RSU grants will 
have been awarded under 
Apple’s Stock Ownership 
Program, and those shares 
today have a value of over 
$3 billion.14
In addition to the stock programs and wide range of benefits we provide, Apple is committed to paying employees a highly 
competitive wage in every location where we operate.Apple stock ownership
In 2015, we introduced our Stock Ownership 
Program, which was designed to reach employees 
who were not previously eligible for stock awards, 
including all of our retail and AppleCare teams. By 
the end of 2021, over $1 billion of RSU grants will 
have been awarded under this program, and those 
shares today have a value of over $3 billion.14 Apple 
is one of only a few companies in the S&P 500 
where all employees are eligible for equity awards.
In most countries, employees also get discounts 
when purchasing Apple stock by participating 
in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). 
Currently, over 80 percent of eligible employees 
participate in the ESPP.15
Minimum wage
Apple is committed to paying employees a highly 
competitive wage in every location where we 
operate. In addition to the stock programs and 
wide range of benefits we provide, our minimum 
hourly wage for employees leads our peers 
across industries. Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   19 Our PeopleWorkplace practices and policies
Apple’s culture is built on treating everyone with 
dignity and respect. This focus shapes how our 
colleagues engage with one another and with 
our customers and partners around the world.
Harassment and discrimination
We are committed to providing a workplace free 
of harassment or discrimination based on race, 
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, national origin, disability, veteran status, 
caste, or other legally protected characteristic. 
We do not tolerate discrimination or harassment 
of our employees or those with whom we have 
a business, service, or professional relationship 
(including customers), nor do we tolerate workplace 
violence of any kind. Retaliation against anyone for 
complaining about harassment or discrimination, 
or for participating in the investigation of a complaint 
of harassment or discrimination is against Apple 
policy and will not be tolerated at Apple.Equal employment opportunity
Apple is an equal opportunity employer committed 
to inclusion and diversity. We take steps to ensure 
equal opportunity for all applicants and employees, 
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual 
orientation, gender identity, national origin, 
disability, veteran status, caste, or other legally 
protected characteristic. We provide reasonable 
accommodations to applicants and employees 
with physical and mental disabilities.
Voluntary decision review 
Apple’s voluntary decision review enables 
employees to have an employment decision 
reevaluated. This is designed to promote fairness 
and impartiality, in line with our values and policies. 
The reviewer will consider any new information 
that indicates the decision may not have been 
in accordance with our policies and guidelines.Engagement
We believe that open and honest communication 
among team members, managers, and leadership 
fosters an open, collaborative work environment 
where everyone can participate, develop, and 
thrive. Team members are encouraged to come 
to their manager with questions, feedback, or 
concerns. Our goal is to listen and learn—and to 
use those lessons to build an even better work 
environment for all.We regularly conduct surveys that gauge sentiment 
in areas like career development, manager 
performance, and inclusivity. Teams and leaders 
are encouraged to engage in meaningful dialogue 
informed by the survey results, and to create action 
plans that are shared, along with the survey results, 
with Apple’s leadership. Across all our teams, we’re 
always building on our long-standing commitment 
to an environment where people at every level of 
our company feel connected and supported.
At Apple, we seek to foster an open, collaborative work environment where everyone can participate, develop, and thrive.   Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   20 Our PeopleApple’s COVID-19 response
When the pandemic struck, the first question 
we asked ourselves was, “How can we help?” 
Our teams answered an urgent call to action by 
coming together to design and manufacture 
face shields, helping to source and distribute 
millions of masks around the world, and 
making contributions to support medical 
workers on the front lines and those hardest 
hit by the pandemic. As the world continues 
to grapple with COVID-19, we’re committed to 
innovating, to giving back, and to working with 
our neighbors to protect people’s health.
Protecting each other’s health
At every stage of the pandemic, our first 
priority has always been the health of our 
teams, customers, and communities. That 
meant being one of the first companies to 
close our offices and retail stores, and finding 
innovative ways to connect with colleagues 
and customers virtually. Apple continued to 
pay our teams during temporary store and office closures, expanded our paid leave 
policies, provided team members with face 
coverings and PPE, and enhanced our policies 
and procedures for a safe work environment— 
both in the office and in-store.
To keep our teams informed, we deployed 
comprehensive resources with up-to-date 
COVID-19 information, including a dedicated 
platform for teams returning to the office. We 
also provided free testing to eligible employees 
and created our own face masks for the safety 
of employees—without tapping into the 
medical supply chain. COVID-19 case support, 
implemented for all team members, included 
return-to-work guidance and contact tracing, 
with the utmost regard for employee privacy.
We continue to offer special sick leave for 
employees with possible COVID-19 symptoms, 
as well as comprehensive health coverage.Innovating to support  
our customers
Despite all of the pandemic’s challenges, 
we brought our most powerful generation 
of hardware, software, and services into 
customers’ hands, helping them stay 
informed, connected, and entertained. 
We also tailored our services to promote easy 
access to trusted information on COVID-19: 
launching a dedicated section on Apple News; 
prioritizing visibility of essential services 
locations—including COVID-19 testing 
and vaccination locations—on Apple Maps; 
offering a curated collection of telehealth 
apps on the App Store; and leveraging Siri 
to provide the latest COVID-19 guidance. 
To meet the extraordinary challenges of 
virtual education, we delivered new content 
and services for students, parents, and 
teachers to foster creativity and learning A healthcare worker in Zambia wears an Apple-produced face shield.Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   21 Our Peoplein a digital environment. We worked with 
mobile carriers and school administrators 
to deliver iPad devices with cellular support 
for students in need. With our Apple Card 
Customer Assistance Program, we also offered 
customers the option to skip their monthly 
payments without incurring interest. Across 
many of our stores, we were able to serve 
our customers’ needs through contactless 
pickup, express storefronts, and new online 
support. In store, mandatory face masks, 
physical distancing, temperature checks, and 
deep-cleaning procedures were put in place 
to keep our teams and customers safe. Our 
response to COVID-19 is still ongoing, and 
we are committed to implementing health 
protocols and adjusting store operations as 
required based on available data and guidance 
from health officials.
Helping our suppliers adapt
From the early days of the pandemic, we 
worked hand in hand with our suppliers to 
deploy a range of protections suited to their 
local circumstances, which included measures 
such as health screenings, limiting density, and 
ensuring strict adherence to social distancing in their facilities. We strengthened our incident 
reporting mechanisms to more clearly include 
the reporting of any infectious disease 
incidents to Apple. This has allowed us to track 
COVID-19 cases at supplier facilities around 
the world, from initial reporting to recovery, 
and to engage with each of these sites 
individually to confirm they have the correct 
protocols in place to keep their employees safe 
and healthy. 
We have worked closely with suppliers to help 
support their ability to pay their hourly workers. 
And we have further supported our business 
partners by accelerating our payments to 
suppliers and extending payment and credit 
terms for our resellers. We also partnered with 
NGOs to help further support people deeper 
in our supply chain through an unprecedented 
time, particularly those from vulnerable groups 
like migrant workers and mining communities.
Giving back to our communities
We also made significant contributions 
toward relief efforts supporting healthcare 
professionals, first responders, and impacted 
communities worldwide. This included over $120 million in donations toward organizations 
offering COVID-19 relief,16 sourcing more than 
30 million masks and 10 million custom-built 
face shields, and matching our employees’ 
charitable donations. With $10 million of 
support from Apple’s Advanced Manufacturing 
Fund, COPAN Diagnostics produced over 
20 million17 COVID-19 sample collection kits 
for hospitals across the United States.
In partnership with the White House 
Coronavirus Task Force and the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), we 
released an app and website that guided 
Americans through a series of questions about 
their health and exposure to determine if they 
should seek care for COVID-19 symptoms, 
providing CDC recommendations on next 
steps including guidance on social distancing 
and self-isolating, how to closely monitor 
symptoms, recommendations on testing, 
and when to contact a medical provider. 
And we collaborated with Google to create a 
new exposure notification system for global 
governments and health agencies, with user 
privacy and security central to its design, to 
help fight the pandemic.
With support from Apple’s Advanced Manufacturing Fund, COPAN Diagnostics has shipped more than 20 million COVID-19 test kits to medical facilities across the country.Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   22 Our People
Health and safety at Apple
We’re dedicated to protecting our team members 
and our customers everywhere we operate—a 
responsibility COVID-19 has brought into even 
greater focus. At every stage of the pandemic, 
we make decisions based on the latest local data 
and public health guidance, and we share lessons 
across our Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) 
teams globally so we can continuously improve 
our safety programs.
Protecting our people
We’re always working hard to ensure our 
employees and contractors are safe no matter 
where they are when they’re conducting business 
for Apple. We abide by EHS requirements in every 
country where we operate, to ensure the safety  
and well-being of our global teams.
Managing work-related hazards and risks
To ensure the safety of our employees and 
customers, we put procedures in place to identify 
the potential risks associated with workplace 
activities and to mitigate possible hazards. We 
support and protect employees in lower hazard 
spaces, and put special programs in place 
for smaller groups working in higher hazard 
environments, including chemical management, 
laser safety, equipment and machinery safety, 
hazardous materials management, and 
electrical safety. Employees can request to 
have their workspaces individually inspected 
to identify hazards and controls, including 
ergonomics evaluations. Our EHS teams identify and provide appropriate 
personal protective equipment (PPE) for specific 
hazards, which is provided to employees at no cost 
and with training on correct use. Additionally, EHS 
conducts mandatory health checks for employees 
where they are required.
We invest in new technologies and talent to 
continually manage risks across our operations, 
including manufacturing in Cork, Ireland. These 
standards, programs, trainings, procedures, 
and other safeguards are managed by trained 
EHS professionals, and where required, we also 
translate EHS procedures into local languages 
for our employees.
Risks identified from incidents, injuries, and 
non-routine events are addressed immediately 
for corrective action, and integrated into future 
program development and training. Lessons 
learned are routinely communicated across Apple’s 
EHS team and potentially affected operations, and 
are used to inform updates to existing policies and 
procedures if necessary.
Employees and managers can report incidents, 
near-misses, and observations—including newly 
identified hazards and risks—through an internal 
iOS app. Incident responses are addressed by 
Apple’s EHS team through a consistent process 
that connects employees with care and support 
while identifying corrective actions where 
appropriate to prevent future occurrences.Read more about our 
hazardous waste and 
chemical safety procedures 
in our 2021 Environmental 
Progress  Report .Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   23 Our PeopleEmergency preparedness and response
Beyond COVID-19, we supported the response 
to dozens of crisis events in 2020, including fires, 
severe weather, and civil unrest. Our responses 
focused on ensuring the safety of our employees 
and business continuity.
All team members can sign up for Apple’s 
Emergency Alert system, enabling them to be 
notified of local emergencies and to indicate 
whether they are safe or need help. Disaster 
supplies are available at our facilities, depending 
on risk and location. 
Facility Response and Recovery Plans provide 
a comprehensive approach to the safety and 
support of our employees while minimizing 
business interruption, and site-specific Emergency 
Response Plans have been implemented globally. 
These plans are communicated to all employees, 
and trainings and drills are held at least annually. 
And our employees are trained in emergency 
response, allowing them to react quickly while 
supporting the safety of our team members 
and customers.EHS management systems 
To provide a safe environment to our teams, 
our EHS programs are built to share information 
about risks, requirements, and expectations for 
all employees.
Our EHS Policy outlines our commitment to 
workplace safety and environmental stewardship, 
and establishes the principles that integrate 
effective EHS practices into all aspects of our 
business. The EHS policy is communicated 
through mandatory training for all new employees 
and through our internal EHS website.
Apple’s EHS leadership team, including 
Apple’s EHS director, is responsible for 
establishing priorities, determining annual 
work plans, and assigning resources to 
execute improvement actions.5000+ 
employees trained 
as first aiders and 
emergency response 
team members globally.
Apple’s EHS teams follow local health guidelines and have expanded safety protocols in stores during COVID-19 to protect the 
health of team members and customers.Introduction Our Business Appendix Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   24 Our PeopleCustomers
In this section
Privacy 26
Accessibility  28
Education  29
Health  31
Caring for customers  33Blind surfer, Scott Leason, 
enjoys the independence that 
Apple technology, including 
features like VoiceOver, helps 
enable. At Apple, we believe 
accessibility is a human right, 
so we design our products and 
services with everyone in mind. Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   25 Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Communities Environment CustomersAt Apple, our focus is on creating the world’s best products that are a force 
for good in our customers’ lives. It’s why we’re constantly innovating to protect 
people’s privacy, empowering them to learn more and to live healthier, and 
designing our technology to be accessible for everyone. From the products 
and services we create to how we share them with the world, we imbue our 
technology with the values that define us.Delivering exceptional 
products that enrich the 
lives of our customers is 
core to Apple’s business. 
That’s why the responsibility 
for integrating privacy, 
accessibility, education, 
and health features into 
our products cuts across 
many teams, including 
Hardware Engineering, 
Software Engineering, 
Hardware Technologies, 
and Environment, Policy 
and Social Initiatives.Privacy
At Apple, we believe privacy is a fundamental 
human right, and we’re constantly innovating to 
give users more transparency and control over 
their data. It’s why we set the industry standard 
for minimizing data collection and processing a 
user’s data on-device, and build industry-leading 
transparency and controls into our technology.
Hand in hand with the privacy of our users are our 
commitments to free expression and access to 
information. Our products and services help our 
customers learn, express their creativity, exercise 
their ingenuity, communicate privately and securely, 
and share information globally, whether it be 
by text message, audio, or sign language over 
FaceTime video.
Designed for privacy
Our products and services are built with innovative 
privacy technologies and techniques designed 
to minimize how much of your data Apple—or 
anyone else—can access. They contain features  
designed and implemented over decades to 
protect customers’ privacy and give them control 
over their information.
Safari was the first browser to block third-party 
cookies by default as far back as 2005, and 
more recently, Safari added Intelligent Tracking 
Prevention to further limit tracking while still 
enabling websites to function normally. Random 
identifiers ensure that a customer’s use of Maps 
isn’t associated with their Apple ID, and iMessage 
and FaceTime are end-to-end encrypted, 
preventing anyone, including Apple, from 
eavesdropping on user conversations.Throughout the App Store ecosystem, we 
continue to add innovative new features that 
advance user privacy even further. Privacy 
Nutrition Labels  require developers, including 
Apple, to report their data collection and privacy 
practices. And App Tracking Transparency requires 
developers to obtain a user’s permission to track 
their data across apps or websites owned by 
other companies.
A new App Tracking Transparency feature across iOS, 
iPadOS, and tvOS requires apps to get the user’s permission 
before tracking their data across apps or websites owned by 
other companies.
Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   26 CustomersApple’s Privacy Policy ensures that privacy remains 
a top priority in all that we do. We respect users’ 
ability to know, access, change, transfer, restrict, 
and delete personal data, and we strive to collect 
the minimum amount of data necessary to power 
our products and services. Customers control what 
information is shared, where it’s shared, and when 
it is backed up. We do not provide user information 
to any third parties without a clear legal basis, 
and we publish a Transparency Report  detailing 
government requests for customer data and 
app removal.
Apple is committed to delivering advertising and 
other services in a way that respects user privacy. 
We do not track user information across third-party 
apps or websites for the purposes of advertising, or 
do business with data brokers.
To continue raising awareness and educating 
people on how to protect their personal information, 
on Data Privacy Day in January 2021, we shared 
a report  that illustrates how companies track user 
data across websites and apps. And in June 2021, 
we shared another report  exploring how Apple’s 
security layers and the App Review process protect 
users and keep them in control of their data.
Privacy and security  
on the App Store
To meet the highest standards for 
privacy, security, and content, all the 
apps in our App Store agree to comply 
with our App Store Review Guidelines . 
These provide developers with clear 
and transparent guidance on safety, 
performance, business, design, and 
legal issues, including appeal rights. 
The guidelines help ensure that the 
apps offered on the App Store are safe, 
provide a good user experience, adhere 
to our rules on user privacy, and secure 
devices from malware and threats.Privacy governance
To keep privacy at the center of our work, we 
maintain rigorous privacy standards for both 
customer and employee data. Our Chief Privacy 
Officer reports to Apple’s General Counsel who 
chairs Apple’s Privacy Steering Committee. 
The Committee sets privacy standards for teams 
across Apple and addresses or escalates privacy 
compliance issues. Its members include Apple’s 
Senior Vice President of Machine Learning and 
AI Strategy, and a cross-functional group of 
senior representatives from across the business.
The Audit and Finance Committee of the Board 
of Directors regularly reviews Apple’s privacy 
and data security risks, and discusses them 
with management. The Committee reviews 
reports on privacy and data security matters, 
including updates on Apple’s privacy program, 
risk management, and relevant legislative, 
regulatory, and technical developments.
Privacy and security training 
We communicate privacy and security guidelines 
with employees and strictly enforce safeguards 
across the company. All employees take annual 
training on business conduct, of which privacy is 
an essential component. Employees with access 
to customer data and personal information are 
required to undergo additional privacy and security 
training. For more information, visit Apple’s Ethics 
and Compliance  website.
Privacy Impact Assessments
As part of our General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) and human rights work, we undertake 
Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs) of our major 
products and services. These assessments also 
consider decision-making that relies on algorithmic 
systems and the impact such decisions have 
on individuals and their rights. PIAs take into 
consideration how laws affect privacy and assess 
any associated risks in the relevant jurisdictions 
where we operate. PIA reviewers are also trained to 
identify and highlight potential impacts to freedom 
of expression. Apple regularly engages with a wide 
range of civil society representatives globally on 
various privacy and freedom of expression issues, 
including privacy by design and encryption.Learn more about  
privacy  at Apple.
Review privacy  features
Control what you  share
See how apps from Apple 
handle your  dataIntroduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   27 CustomersPrivacy inquiries
Privacy questions, concerns, or complaints can 
be raised online or by calling our Apple support 
number . Our Data Protection Officer is available for 
questions regarding the Privacy Policy or general 
privacy practices. 
Embedding security and privacy
We’ve spoken out, time and again, for strong 
encryption without backdoors, recognizing 
that security is the foundation of privacy. We 
build security into our hardware, software, 
and services  to provide users with maximum 
security and a transparent user experience, 
serving the ultimate goal of keeping personal 
information safe. And we’ve designed the Secure 
Enclave—a dedicated secure subsystem integrated 
into Apple hardware—to keep sensitive user data, 
like biometric information, secure.As part of our commitment, our Apple Security 
Bounty  rewards researchers who discover and 
share with us critical issues in our latest operating 
systems and the techniques used to exploit them. 
Apple also uses administrative, technical, and 
physical safeguards to protect users’ data, taking 
into account the nature of that information and 
the threats posed. Apple employees who handle 
personal information are only permitted to use 
approved software and collaboration tools, and all 
our employees can easily raise any privacy issues 
and questions with our Data Protection Officer.
When we become aware of a potential data security 
incident, we conduct prompt investigations and 
analysis, provide notifications in a timely manner 
when necessary, and determine what steps to 
take in response.
Accessibility
Technology works best when it works for everyone. 
At Apple, we believe accessibility is a human right, 
so we design our products and services with 
everyone in mind.
Vision
Our features for blind and lo w-vision users  include 
VoiceOver, an industry-leading screen reader that 
describes exactly what’s happening on your device, 
and Zoom, a screen magnifier that lets you enlarge 
the content you see on your device. Magnifier turns 
the camera on an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch into a 
digital magnifying glass to increase the size of any 
physical object you point it at.
Hearing
To support customers who are deaf or hard of 
hearing , Apple was the first to create a direct 
connection between hearing aids and cochlear 
implants to iPhones and other iOS devices through 
the Made for iPhone program. This enables 
customers with hearing loss to make phone calls 
and stream high-quality audio directly to their 
hearing devices. Sound Recognition is a feature 
that notifies users of external environmental sounds like doorbells and alarms, while FaceTime detects 
when someone uses sign language in group calls 
and makes them more prominent. Other features 
include Headphone Accommodations, which 
adjust certain sounds and frequencies to best suit 
a user’s hearing preferences, and Sensory Alerts, 
which offer visual or vibrating notifications for 
incoming calls, messages, and events.
Mobility 
Users with limited mobility  can use Switch Control 
to navigate their device easily and efficiently with 
a variety of adaptive switch hardware, a single tap, 
or mouth sounds for users who are non-speaking 
and have limited mobility. Voice Control lets a 
user control a device with voice commands, and 
AssistiveTouch for watchOS allows users with 
upper body limb differences to enjoy the benefits 
of Apple Watch without ever having to touch the 
display or controls. With Touch Accommodations, 
customers can control how long they touch the 
screen before it’s recognized and whether repeat 
touches are ignored, while Back Tap lets users 
double-tap or triple-tap the back of their iPhone 
to automatically perform a range of custom tasks, 
from opening an app to taking a screenshot.We maintain current  
ISO 27001 and ISO 27018 
certifications  setting user 
security standards, for which 
we undergo yearly audits. 
Learn more about Apple’s 
accessibility  featuresIntroduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   28 CustomersCognitive 
Our products are built with an array of features to 
support neurodiversity  and cognitive disabilities. 
Apple is introducing new background sounds to 
help minimize distractions and help users focus, 
stay calm, or rest. Audio can be used to enhance 
reading or writing comprehension with Speak 
Screen or Speak Selection for iOS. Text to Speech 
on Mac lets users highlight text to hear it read aloud 
in over 35 languages, and Dictation and Siri help 
anyone who finds speaking easier than typing or 
writing. Another feature, Guided Access, limits a 
device to a single app and lets users control which 
features are available.Community support
We offer sessions  to teach anyone how to use our 
built-in accessibility features and provide tools for 
developers  to make their apps more accessible. In 
May 2021, we announced world-class, on-demand 
sign language interpretation services, designed to 
communicate with AppleCare and Retail Customer 
Care using American Sign Language (ASL) in the 
U.S., British Sign Language (BSL) in the UK, or 
French Sign Language (LSF) in France. With the 
SignTime app, along with video remote and onsite 
interpreting, Apple customers and team members 
can now request an interpreter for one-on-ones, 
group meetings, external interviews, and more.
 
Learn more  about how 
Apple empowers educators 
and learners of all ages.Apple has received many 
awards for its impact in 
disabled communities, 
including the prestigious 
Helen Keller Achievement 
Award from the American 
Foundation of the Blind.
Education
For more than 40 years, we’ve worked alongside 
educators to inspire the next generation of 
learners, supporting creativity, problem-solving, 
communication, and collaboration. 
We believe that education is a great equalizing 
force, and our goal is to empower all educators 
and learners through technology that protects 
student privacy and is accessible for all learners. 
We develop products, programs, tools, and 
curricula for educators to create engaging learning 
experiences, and we support education leaders 
and administrators so they can get the most out 
of the technology in the classroom and beyond.
Coding is a universal language, and a great way 
to help students think critically and express their 
creativity. We’re always working to make it easy 
and fun to learn to code, with supportive resources 
like Swift Playgrounds and the Everyone Can 
Code curriculum. And we work hand in hand 
with communities—particularly communities 
of color and others often under-resourced—to 
bring coding, creating, and entrepreneurship 
opportunities to learners of all ages.Products for learning 
Knowing that everyone has their own way of 
learning and expressing themselves, we offer 
products that support students and educators 
from kindergarten through higher education. 
iPad provides apps and advanced technologies 
that help educators teach and students push the 
boundaries of their creativity. The Augmented 
Reality capabilities on iPad let students bring digital 
objects into the real world to spark curiosity and 
enhance understanding in new, exciting ways. And 
the powerful Mac processors are equipped for the 
most intensive tasks, throughout university and 
far beyond.
We also developed Apple School Manager, a free 
web-based portal that helps IT administrators in 
K–12 and higher education institutions effortlessly 
configure, deploy, and manage iPad and 
Mac devices.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   29 CustomersInspiring others
Our programs nurture and support educators and schools 
using Apple technology. We recognize those that go above and 
beyond to rethink what’s possible so they can help inspire and 
mentor others.
Our community of nearly 3000 Apple Distinguished Educators  
in 45 countries model, advise, advocate, and publish materials 
on ways to integrate Apple technology into teaching and learning. 
These educators are active leaders, helping to make learning 
deeply personal for every student. 
Apple Distinguished Schools  are centers of leadership and 
educational excellence that demonstrate the impact of learning 
with Apple technology. The 500-plus schools in 32 countries 
cultivate environments where students are excited and curious 
about learning.
Apple Distinguished Educator Mike Lang is using Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy to show his 
kindergarten and first grade students at Laura Dearing Elementary School that they have the 
power to change the world.Teaching tools 
Our teaching tools empower educators to 
personalize the learning experience for each 
student and manage the classroom to keep every 
student on task. Our Classroom app serves as a 
powerful teaching assistant that makes it easy to 
navigate lessons and share information, while the 
Schoolwork app aids the distribution and collection 
of assignments, tracks progress, and supports 
collaboration with students.
Curricula and project guides
Our programs help educators integrate creativity 
and coding into their lessons, even if they’re new 
to teaching with technology:
• Everyone Can Create : Gives educators fun and 
meaningful ways to bring creative expression into 
any lesson, topic, or assignment. The free guides 
teach students to develop and communicate 
ideas through drawing, photography, video, 
and music, while teacher guides help educators 
integrate both technology and creativity into 
every lesson.
• Everyone Can Code : Guides students through 
the Swift Playgrounds app on iPad and Mac. 
This free curriculum and the app teach coding for 
kids through a world of interactive puzzles and 
playful characters, and introduce Swift, the same 
programming language used by professional app 
developers. Teacher guides support educators in 
teaching code, even if they have no experience. 
• Develop in Swift : Teaches students aged 14 
and over how to use Swift for designing and 
developing apps through Apple’s integrated 
development environment, Xcode. In 2020, we 
launched a free online course taught by Apple 
experts that helps instructors learn to teach 
Swift and Xcode. Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   30 CustomersInspiration and support for teachers 
We help educators share experiences, ideas, and 
inspiration, so that they too can get more out of the 
technology in their classrooms: 
• Apple Teacher:  A free online, self-paced 
professional learning program that helps 
teachers build their skills and confidence 
teaching with Apple technology and earn 
Apple Teacher recognition.
• Apple Teacher Portfolio:  A new addition to 
Apple Teacher that further supports educators 
in reimagining their lessons.• Apple Professional Learning Specialists:  These 
experts provide one-on-one coaching sessions 
and group professional learning workshops for 
educators, in addition to the support resources 
available online or via phone.
The majority of our educator tools are free, and we 
offer special pricing on Mac, iPad, and other Apple 
hardware for education institutions, eligible college 
students, and education faculty and staff.
Health
Apple empowers our users to take control of their 
health by making it easier to track and share their 
health and wellness information while always 
keeping their data secure. This allows for a more 
informed dialogue with loved ones and doctors, 
offering the ability to make better health choices 
on a daily basis.
Technology for better health
Since launching Apple Watch in 2015, we’ve been 
constantly inspired by the stories we hear from 
our users about how using Apple Watch for health 
and fitness has changed their lives. These range 
from users who found closing their Activity rings 
every day motivated them to be in the best shape 
of their lives to those alerted to a potential irregular 
heart rhythm who sought medical care to confirm. 
Stories like those continually drive us to do more 
for our users.
Building on innovative features for Apple Watch  
like ECG, Irregular Rhythm Notifications, and Fall 
Detection, Apple introduced a variety of new 
services and features to help people on their health 
and fitness journeys. With Apple Fitness+, we built 
an entirely new, inclusive, and welcoming fitness 
service that intelligently incorporates workout metrics from Apple Watch for a first-of-its-kind 
personalized and immersive experience. New 
apps like Handwashing, Sleep, and Blood Oxygen 
offer more insights into users’ overall wellness to 
make more informed decisions for themselves. 
Apple Watch users can also view a classification 
of their Cardio Fitness Level—a powerful predictor 
of overall health—in the Health app , and receive 
a notification if it falls within the “low” range. The 
breakthrough technology allows users to better 
understand their cardio fitness measurements 
right on their own wrist.
On iPhone, Walking Steadiness is an industry first, 
providing insight into fall risk by capturing important 
mobility data as users walk with their iPhone, directly 
within the Health app. The Health app provides a 
consolidated view of users’ health information—data 
from iPhone, third-party apps, and Apple Watch. 
And since introducing the feature in 2018, Health 
Records at more than 12,000 care locations across 
three countries are available for users to directly 
access from multiple providers. Additionally, users 
have the option to securely share their health data 
with a loved one, caregiver, and, in the U.S., their 
doctor through the Health app.  
Read more about 
Apple’s community 
education initiatives 
in Communities  (p45).Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   31 CustomersHealth research
Everything Apple does in health is based in 
science. We have a history of enabling the medical 
community through platforms like ResearchKit and 
CareKit , which help researchers produce medical 
insights and discoveries on conditions from 
epilepsy to Parkinson’s at a pace and scale never 
seen before.
Apple technology is helping democratize medical 
research by giving users the ability to opt-in to 
share data through the Research app  on their 
iPhone or Apple Watch. In 2021, in collaboration 
with Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 
and the University of Michigan, the Apple 
Women’s Health Study  and Apple Hearing Study  
released new insights on women’s health and 
hearing health. 
In 2020, Apple joined forces with researchers 
at several universities across North America 
to explore how Apple Watch and iPhone can 
help across a variety of conditions, including 
depression, asthma, and heart failure.Partnering with the medical industry
Our technology gives healthcare  providers the 
tools they need to work effectively within hospitals 
and connect remotely with patients. Apps on 
iPad, iPhone, and Apple Watch can help medical 
professionals deliver personalized care. Our 
devices protect patient data yet remain accessible 
and easy to use across providers. The result is care 
that becomes more efficient, more personalized, 
and ultimately, more human. 
For providers, especially during COVID-19, we’ve 
seen the power that technology has brought to 
healthcare. FaceTime was, and still is, being used 
to deliver virtual care at a time when PPE was so 
scarce and face-to-face medical appointments 
were often deferred.
At home, iPhone, Apple Watch, the Health app, 
and HealthKit-enabled apps and devices make it 
easy for patients to record and share their health 
data. This became even more important during 
the pandemic as many patients began opting for 
virtual visits.
Apple Fitness+, the first fitness service built around Apple Watch, launched in December 2020. Apple Fitness+ 
intelligently incorporates workout metrics from Apple Watch for a first-of-its-kind personalized and immersive 
workout experience.
Privacy is a fundamental 
aspect of our health work. 
The right place for health 
information to exist is with 
a user on their device, 
and where or how that 
information is shared 
should be completely 
up to the individual.
Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   32 CustomersWe take responsibility for 
our products throughout 
their life cycles—including 
the materials they are made 
of, the people who assemble 
them, and how they are 
recycled at end-of-life. 
Read more in our Product 
Environmental  Reports .Caring for customers
At Apple, we want to create products and services 
that enrich people’s lives. To us, that means making 
the best, not the most, and only building things that 
make us proud. 
A world-class experience
We’re motivated by creating the best user 
experience through our products and in every 
interaction with our customers. We focus on 
breakthrough technologies and innovative features 
that set us apart and keep people coming back 
to Apple. Consumer surveys have consistently 
shown high satisfaction ratings for our revolutionary 
products, including iPhone (97 percent or higher), 
Mac (over 90 percent), iPad (over 93 percent), 
and Apple Watch (over 90 percent).18
Support through retail
Our focus on our customers extends to an 
unparalleled retail experience that puts the people 
we serve at the center of everything we do. 
Our retail teams inspire our customers to discover, 
learn about, and choose Apple products, services, 
and accessories by delivering a personalized 
experience like no other. Apple Specialists in our 
retail stores and contact centers help customers 
find the right products with one-on-one shopping 
and support sessions—in person, over the phone, 
or via chat. Today at Apple  sessions help customers 
learn how to get the most from their devices and 
take their creativity further.
Apple’s Education team works to ensure students, 
teachers, and parents have the best learning tools 
for the classroom. For business customers, the 
dedicated teams in every Apple Store provide the 
advice, pricing, and support small businesses need 
in our communities.
We work closely with Apple Authorized Resellers, 
like carriers, and retailers to enhance the customer 
shopping experience beyond our own retail 
locations and the Apple online store. Listening and improving
To ensure quality, we continually monitor customer 
feedback, assess key drivers, and leverage 
analytics to improve the customer experience. 
Customer feedback is shared with team members 
as well as leaders, so that everyone understands 
their impact and is focused on making the 
customer experience the best it can possibly be. 
Our Net Promoter Scores® (NPS®),19 a measure 
of brand loyalty, are consistently strong and 
industry-leading among retailers, and reflect 
our commitment to the customer shopping and 
support experience.
As we continue delivering exceptional products, 
we remain committed to high-quality standards 
and transparent communication with customers. 
We maintain a System Status  page to actively 
report on identified system issues and offer 
service programs  to address hardware issues. 
We encourage our customers to contact us  with 
questions, feedback, or to request support.
Product longevity
We are committed to providing long-lasting 
devices by building durable hardware designed 
to endure the rigors of everyday use and to 
be compatible with years of software updates 
that unlock new features and functionality. 
We also provide convenient access to safe and 
reliable repair services in case they’re needed, 
and offer collection programs to refurbish or 
recycle products. 
Product durability
Our customers expect their devices to be ready 
when they need them, with minimal interruption 
for maintenance or repair. Apple products are 
designed to endure daily life, and confidence in 
the reliability of the device is an essential element 
of the product experience.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   33 Customers 
Read more about how we 
create products that are safer 
across their entire life cycle in 
Smarter chemistry  (p12).Engineers in our Reliability Testing Lab measure 
the performance of materials, components, and 
products. Through our iterative testing approach, 
we continuously improve designs until they can 
withstand rigorous real-world conditions and meet 
our strict durability standards, which are informed 
by in-depth user studies to understand how our 
customers use their products.
Software support
Product longevity relies as much on software support 
as it does on durable hardware design. That’s 
why we work to continually improve the operating 
systems that power our products. We engineer each 
software release to make sure it runs beautifully on 
all supported devices. This helps us maximize the 
number of customers who benefit from the latest 
software updates, regardless of whether their device 
is brand-new or several generations older.
Access to repairs
We design our products for durability to minimize 
the need for repair. But when a repair is needed, 
we believe our customers should have convenient 
access to safe and reliable repair services so 
their product is up and running again as quickly 
as possible. 
Apple-certified repairs are performed by trusted 
experts who only use genuine Apple parts to 
ensure reliability and safety. Customers can ship 
their products to Apple Repair Centers, find an 
Authorized Service Provider, or visit a Genius Bar 
at an Apple Store. Since 2019, our repair programs 
added over 1500 Independent Repair Providers to 
our growing network of over 5000 Apple Authorized 
Service Providers around the world. Our program 
leads the industry for customer satisfaction 
and helps millions of people with both in- and 
out-of-warranty repairs.
Refurbishing and recycling 
At the end of product life, we make it easy to recycle 
devices for free, and provide a range of upgrade, 
finance, and trade-in options. And by encouraging 
our customers to access the value of their current 
device through Apple Trade In or third-party 
trade-in platforms, we not only make their next 
purchase more affordable, we also enable a new 
customer to experience Apple products and 
services through their purchase of a refurbished 
device. Refurbished devices meet the highest 
quality, performance, and safety standards.Product safety
We design our products to make sure they’re safe 
for anyone who assembles, uses, or recycles them.
Commitment to safety
The well-being of those who design, make, use, 
and recycle our products is a priority for Apple, 
which is why we’re committed to using safer 
materials to create safer products. We assess 
the health and safety of all our products, during 
every stage of their life cycle, from early concept 
development, through use, service, and repair, 
to recycling. During the design and prototyping 
process, cross-functional Apple teams analyze 
potential failures and their effects from a quality 
and safety perspective. The results drive product 
design improvements and manufacturing 
process controls.
Safety compliance
Apple’s products are designed, tested, and 
certified to comply with international and regional 
safety standards. They also meet our own 
specifications, which often go above and beyond 
what is required. For example, Apple’s Regulated 
Substances Specification  restricts the use of 
certain chemical substances in Apple products, 
and we apply rigorous additional controls for 
materials that may have prolonged contact with 
the skin. Components that are critical to safety are 
subject to enhanced requirements and additional 
supplier audits.
Apple’s Safety Compliance Policy defines 
procedures to monitor products in the field and 
investigate potential safety issues. This policy 
requires prompt escalation of safety issues to Apple 
management and timely reporting to regulators. 
It also requires mechanisms for employees 
to confidentially report safety or compliance 
concerns, as well as training for employees on how 
to address the concerns. Our Product Integrity and 
Legal teams are responsible for ensuring Apple’s 
Safety Compliance Policy is followed. Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   34 CustomersSuppliers
In this section
Our approach to supplier responsibility 36 
Partnering with our suppliers  37
Supplier employees  40
Environment and the supply chain  42
Working in partnership  43From the very beginning of 
the COVID-19 pandemic, we 
partnered with our suppliers to 
ensure strong protections were 
in place for their employees.Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   35 Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Customers Communities Environment SuppliersWe are deeply committed to working with our suppliers to ensure that the people 
in our supply chain are safe at work, that they are treated with dignity and respect, 
and that our planet is protected throughout the process of building our products. 
This responsibility includes supporting our suppliers in achieving the highest 
standards of labor, human rights, and health and safety, and investing in the 
personal and professional development of those working in our supply chain. 
It also means working with them to promote renewable energy and energy 
efficiency; reduce waste; recover and use recycled materials; and design 
the recycling technologies of the future.Sabih Khan is Apple’s 
Senior Vice President of 
Operations, reporting 
to COO Jeff Williams. 
Sabih is in charge of 
Apple’s global supply 
chain, ensuring product 
quality and overseeing 
planning, procurement, 
manufacturing, logistics, 
and product fulfillment 
functions, the programs 
that support Apple’s 
Supplier Responsibility 
work. The Operations team 
also supports Apple’s 
environmental initiatives by 
partnering with suppliers to 
propel green manufacturing, 
help conserve resources, 
and protect the planet. Our approach to supplier responsibility
At Apple, people come first in everything we do. 
That means holding ourselves and our suppliers to 
the highest standards of labor and human rights, 
health and safety, environmental protection, and 
ethical conduct. 
Our supply chain 
Apple’s supply chain comprises a complex global 
network of businesses spanning more than 
50 countries worldwide. We define our supply 
chain broadly, including the design, engineering, 
manufacturing, and recycling of our products, 
as well as the companies and places where our 
suppliers source materials. It also incorporates 
logistics, sales, and support functions, as well 
as suppliers that support Apple services. 
Upholding the highest standards
Developed in 2005, the Apple Supplier Code 
of Conduct  (the Code) and the Apple Supplier 
Responsibility Standards  (the Standards) outline 
our requirements for suppliers in the areas of labor 
and human rights, health and safety, environment, 
management systems, and ethics. We share these 
requirements with suppliers through annual tailored 
communication and guidance, and require all 
suppliers to train their employees on their rights.Our Code and Standards are aligned with 
internationally recognized labor and human rights 
standards, including the International Labour 
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work and the Organisation 
for Economic Co-operation and Development’s 
(OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible 
Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected 
and High-Risk Areas, as well as industry-leading 
health and safety standards. Our approach to 
conducting labor and human rights due diligence 
in our supply chain is based on the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). 
Every year we incorporate feedback from 
stakeholders to ensure that our Code and 
Standards reflect current internationally recognized 
standards. We also engage with human rights, 
environmental, and industry organizations to openly 
share our tools and learnings with other companies 
in order to drive high standards beyond our supply 
chain and accelerate progress more quickly.For more information, 
read Apple’s People 
and Environment in Our 
Supply Chain report.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   36 SuppliersIdentifying and managing  
salient risks 
Identifying potential human rights risks to people 
in our global supply chain is the first step toward 
eliminating them. Our prevention strategy relies 
on both internal monitoring and analysis, as well 
as input from key rights holders, stakeholders, 
international organizations, policymakers, 
and partners.
Reports identifying potential risks can also come 
to us from grassroots civil society organizations, 
local news outlets, individuals in the supply chain 
or supply chain communities, local whistleblower 
mechanisms, and third-party hotlines. They also come through the reporting mechanisms we 
make available directly to supplier employees, 
Apple employees, and the general public. These 
reports can come to us in any language and can 
be anonymous.
We work quickly and diligently to thoroughly 
investigate reports, and promptly correct any 
issues we discover. If any issues are discovered, 
we go further to prevent recurrence by 
implementing improvements to our policies and 
strategies, building capability with our suppliers, 
and integrating findings and learnings into our 
annual Code and Standards updates. 
Partnering with our suppliers
We partner closely with our suppliers to help 
them meet and exceed our workplace and 
environmental requirements. 
Assessing prospective suppliers 
We assess select prospective suppliers and 
facilities on their ability to adhere to our rigorous 
Code and Standards before they enter our 
supply chain through a process called the Facility 
Readiness Assessment. In calendar year 2020, 
8 percent of prospective suppliers evaluated were 
excluded from entering our supply chain for being 
unable or unwilling to meet our high standards. 
But even if prospective suppliers are ultimately 
not awarded business by Apple, we continue 
to help them improve their performance across 
environmental, health and safety, and labor and 
human rights criteria. This includes providing 
subject matter expertise to help them correct 
any compliance issues found during the supplier 
and facility selection process. While the program 
is voluntary, 56 percent of companies opted to 
receive this additional support in 2020, helping 
to protect the rights of people beyond our 
supply chain.Driving continuous improvement 
We assess our suppliers’ performance according to 
our Code and Standards, and we work closely with 
our suppliers to drive continuous improvement, 
because we believe that if we’re not finding ways 
to improve, we’re not looking hard enough.
Our comprehensive supplier assessments, 
also known as audits, evaluate suppliers 
against more than 500 criteria. Throughout the 
assessment process, independent third-party 
auditors conduct extensive document reviews, 
thorough site walk-throughs, and interviews with 
management and workers. This rigorous process 
can take anywhere from a day to more than a week, 
depending on the scale of the supplier’s operations. 
The high-level factors Apple considers when 
selecting suppliers for assessment include 
geographic location, previous assessment 
performance, previous record of Core Violations 
or allegations, how much business the supplier 
does with Apple, and whether the supplier employs 
those from vulnerable groups, such as Foreign 
Contract Workers.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   37 SuppliersBeyond our regularly scheduled assessments, every 
year we also conduct unannounced assessments. 
In calendar year 2020, we conducted more than 
100 unannounced assessments and investigations, 
up from 70 in 2019. We also supplement our own 
assessment protocol with the Responsible Business 
Alliance’s Validated Assessment Program, a 
third-party assessment widely used by the industry. 
Apple-managed assessments covered a cumulative 
total of 94 percent of Apple’s direct manufacturing 
spend based on assessments conducted since 
2007. In 2020, a total of 1121 assessments were 
conducted across manufacturing sites, smelters 
and refiners, and service providers, including those 
that support AppleCare and Apple Retail. Results of 
these assessments are detailed in Apple’s People 
and Environment in Our Supply Chain report. 
Accountability at every step
As auditors review supplier documentation or 
inspect a supplier site, they look for any instances 
of noncompliance with Apple’s Code and 
Standards. Assessment findings are divided into 
three categories based on their severity, with Core 
Violations being the most serious type of violation.
If a Core Violation is identified, the supplier’s 
Chief Executive Officer is notified and the supplier 
is placed on probation. The probation period 
continues until Apple determines that the supplier 
has completed all corrective actions. The possible 
consequences of probation include receiving no 
new projects, no new business, or the termination 
of existing business with Apple. 
If noncompliance is identified, we take prompt 
action to ensure suppliers correct the issue 
and make meaningful, long-term changes. We 
do this through a Corrective Action Plan (CAP), 
during which 30-, 60-, and 90-day check-ins 
with Apple are required. We then conduct our 
Corrective Action Verification (CAV) process 
to verify that all corrective actions have been 
successfully implemented, and necessary steps 
have been taken to prevent a reoccurrence. 
Beyond immediately addressing the Core 
Violation, suppliers must also make changes in 
their management system that address the root 
causes of the violation, take and sustain preventive 
measures to ensure the violation does not reoccur, 
and provide remedy to affected workers in line with 
the UNGPs.We are committed to working with a supplier until 
it becomes clear they are unable or unwilling to 
uphold our high standards. At that point, they risk 
removal from our supply chain. Since 2009, we 
have directed the removal of 24 manufacturing 
supplier facilities, and 153 smelters and refiners 
from our supply chain.
Instilling a culture of safety
Health and safety are a critical part of every 
assessment we conduct at supplier sites. Among 
other standards, suppliers must implement 
programs for tracking the use of hazardous 
chemicals and communicating related risks, 
maintain systems for reporting and addressing 
health and safety incidents, and provide training 
in local languages for all their employees. Any 
instances of noncompliance with our Code and 
Standards during an assessment are addressed 
through Corrective Action Plans, online training 
materials, and in-person capability-building with 
Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) experts.
In 2020, we partnered with our suppliers from 
the very beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic to 
ensure strong protections were in place for their 
employees, and that their rights were respected 
throughout. This included daily infection and 
recovery reporting, one-on-one support, and 
in-depth guidance on health, safety, and labor 
and human rights standards. 
We are also continually improving machine safety 
across our supply chain. To identify high-priority 
suppliers, we conducted a risk assessment of 
suppliers considering three main areas: machine 
procurement, machine safety sign-off, and safe 
work procedures. And in 2021, we provided 
customized, onsite support to 78 suppliers to 
help improve machine safety in their facilities. 
We also introduced a new Apple Machine Design 
Safety Guide for machine builders who provide 
equipment for enclosure manufacturers in order 
to help them put into place high safety standards 
starting with how machines are designed.Read more about  
Apple’s response to 
COVI D-19 (p21).
94% 
Apple-managed 
assessments covered 
a cumulative total of 
94 percent of Apple’s direct 
manufacturing spend based 
on assessments conducted 
since 2007. Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   38 SuppliersAdvancing smarter 
chemistry in manufacturing
While we require suppliers to maintain strict safety 
measures at all times, the strongest method we can 
employ to protect people is to select safer materials 
from the start. 
An area where we are making an immediate impact 
is with process chemicals, such as cleaners 
and degreasers, that are used in manufacturing 
processes. All of our final assembly sites use only 
safer alternative cleaners and degreasers. This year, 
we were the first consumer electronics company to 
receive the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s 
(EPA) Safer Choice Partner of the Year Award in 
recognition of our work to scale the use of safer 
process chemicals in our supply chain. 
We also require that suppliers comply with 
Apple’s Regulated Substances Specification , 
a list of substances that Apple restricts from 
being included in Apple products or used in their 
manufacturing. We hold our suppliers accountable 
by conducting factory audits and testing materials 
and components at certified laboratories for 
substances of high concern. We also support 
our suppliers by sharing a list of identified safer 
alternatives and promoting the use of substances 
that meet our standards.
Responsible materials sourcing
Deeper in our supply chain, we require suppliers 
to responsibly source materials and conduct due 
diligence in their own supply chains. We also 
Apple partnered with RESOLVE and Tiffany&Co. on the Salmon Gold project, which works with small-scale gold miners and 
Indigenous peoples in remote regions of the Yukon, Alaska, and British Columbia to support a mining practice that helps restore 
rivers and streams so that salmon and other fish can thrive. 
consider the human rights impact on surrounding 
communities, engage with others to strengthen 
industry standards, drive transparency, and foster 
the same opportunities as we do in other parts of 
Apple’s supply chain.
Our strict Responsible Sourcing Standards apply 
to primary minerals, recycled materials, primary 
minerals processors, recyclers, and even to the 
mining level. We conduct detailed due diligence 
of our supply chain by mapping higher-risk minerals 
and identifying risks and opportunities in the supply 
chain using tools created by Apple. We then take 
corrective actions where social, environmental, 
human rights, and governance risks are identified 
through a variety of sources, such as independent 
third-party audits, civil society engagement, and 
public reporting.
We investigate allegations deeper in our supply 
chain through our Responsible Minerals Sourcing 
program, which requires minerals suppliers to 
review incidents and public allegations linked 
to their smelters and refiners, and to participate 
in traceability and audit programs that address 
and mitigate risk.
We also provide support to the Fund for Global 
Human Rights, which partners with grassroots 
human rights and environmental organizations 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). 
And we continued our support to the International 
Tin Association’s International Tin Supply Chain 
Initiative’s (ITSCI) DRC whistleblowing mechanism, 
to empower and amplify local voices.Read more about our 
smarter chemistry work in 
our 2021 Environmental 
Progress  Report .
See Apple’s 2020 Conflict 
Minerals Report  for more 
information on responsible 
materials sourcing.
100% 
In calendar year 2020, 
100 percent of the 
identified tin, tungsten, 
tantalum, gold, cobalt, 
and lithium smelters and 
refiners in our supply chain 
participated in independent 
third-party audits.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   39 SuppliersSupplier employees
Everyone deserves to be treated with dignity 
and to have their rights respected. As part of 
our Supplier Code of Conduct, we require our 
suppliers to provide their employees with training 
on their rights. Apple also directly engages with 
tens of thousands of supplier employees on their 
workplace experiences each year—because the 
more we listen and learn, the better we all are.
Worker rights 
Since 2008, 21.5 million supplier employees 
have been trained on their rights. Building on this 
progress, we’re working with partners to deliver 
digital worker rights training to supplier employees, 
enabling better learning and more accurate 
knowledge gap identification. 
Suppliers are required to respect the rights of their 
employees to form or join, or refrain from joining, 
organizations of their choice, and to bargain 
collectively. Even where the right to freedom of 
association or collective bargaining is restricted 
under local law, suppliers are prohibited from 
obstructing alternative legal means for workers 
to associate or to individually and collectively 
engage with their employer without interference, 
discrimination, retaliation, or harassment. In 
2020, 562 supplier facilities in 25 countries 
employed unionized workers, and 422 sites had 
negotiated collective bargaining agreements 
with their employees. Worker voice 
Listening directly to rights holders is critical to 
creating safe and equitable workplaces. Our Code 
and Standards require worker feedback channels, 
including grievance mechanisms at supplier sites. 
These grievance mechanisms include third-party 
anonymous hotlines and the ability to contact the 
Apple Environment and Supply Chain Innovation 
team at any time, and in any language.
Worker interviews are an important part of every 
supplier assessment we conduct. In 2020, we 
interviewed 57 ,618 supply chain workers, in their 
local language and without their managers present, 
to confirm that their experience on the job aligns 
with our observations during assessments.
In 2019 we began anonymously measuring 
supplier employees’ general satisfaction at work 
and in 2020 we surveyed 196,647 workers from 
135 facilities across Greater China, India, Ireland, 
the UK, U.S., and Vietnam. The surveys sought 
feedback on different aspects of the workplace, 
including working and living conditions, food, 
and management. And as a result of these 
surveys, suppliers took 3173 actions to address 
worker feedback, including adding shuttle buses, 
reducing turnaround time for addressing worker 
grievances, increasing bonuses, and improving 
dorm maintenance.
We are also exploring additional digital tools to 
further scale worker voice across our supply chain, 
including a digital platform that combines digital 
and in-person training to help suppliers gather 
and address worker grievances, measure worker 
satisfaction, and provide health and well-being 
training and services to their employees.For detailed information on 
our assessment process 
and how we remediate Core 
Violations, read How We 
Work With  Suppliers .Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   40 SuppliersStudents in a SEED lab studying Swift coding.
Worker education and  
professional development 
Over the last decade, we’ve developed a network 
of higher education opportunities, coding courses, 
vocational certification programs, and health 
awareness education programs, that help people 
working in our supply chain to cultivate the skills 
needed to advance in the jobs of today and tomorrow. 
Some examples of these programs include:
• Supplier Employee Education and 
Development (SEED):  Since 2008, the SEED 
program has helped 4.65 million supplier 
employees cultivate skills to prepare for the 
future of work. 
• Apprenticeships and technical training: Over 
18,000 supplier employees have participated 
in our technical training and apprenticeship 
programs since 2018, including programs on 
robotics, Computer Numerical Control machines, 
and mobile device repair. We’re also working 
to increase the impact of these programs by 
helping expand the capabilities of teachers at 
local vocational schools.• The Automation Technician program  teaches 
students to install, maintain, and repair 
automation machines in the production line, 
while the Line Leader program  helps students 
cultivate skills needed to advance into production 
line supervisor roles. Among other topics, 
the program covers management training, 
production organization and management, 
and project management. 
• Coding:  A few years ago we began offering 
training to supplier employees on Apple’s Swift 
coding language. We’ve expanded this program 
so students can also learn from Creatives at 
our Apple Store locations to become more 
familiar with the functionality of Apple products 
and services, and gain insight into Apple’s 
developer systems as they continue to advance 
in their coding coursework.
• Health and wellness: We provide programs that 
empower supplier employees to take charge of 
their own personal health and well-being. Our 
health education program started in 2017 in China 
as a peer-to-peer program providing training 
on reproductive health, disease prevention, and 
nutrition. The program has since expanded to 
other countries and further provides support for 
identified health needs in local communities.3173 
actions taken by our 
suppliers in 2020 in response 
to worker feedback.
21.5M 
supplier employees trained 
on their rights since 2008.
4.65M 
supplier employees have 
participated in educational 
programming since 2008.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   41 SuppliersEnvironment and the supply chain
We are committed to creating products that enrich 
the lives of our customers, and to producing 
them in a manner that doesn’t deplete the earth’s 
resources. This responsibility extends throughout 
our supply chain—from initial design through 
manufacturing, and across the entire life cycle 
of our products.
We work with our suppliers to help us address our 
environmental commitments, such as becoming 
carbon neutral by 2030 across our entire product 
footprint. Our Supplier Energy Efficiency Program 
and Supplier Clean Energy Program both address 
direct and indirect emissions in our supply chain, 
while our Supplier Clean Water and Zero Waste 
programs help to reduce resource usage. In addition, our Code contains strict environmental 
protections, which require our suppliers to 
understand and take active steps to reduce their 
environmental impact while also becoming better 
stewards of the resources we all share and the 
communities in which we operate. Specifically, 
our Code addresses the management of regulated 
substances, stormwater, wastewater, air emissions, 
waste, and noise, as well as pollution prevention, 
resource reduction, and obtaining necessary 
environmental permits. For more information on 
these supplier programs, 
see the Environment  
section (p7) and the 
2021 Environmental 
Progress  Report . 
This 80 megawatt solar facility in North Carolina is one of the many energy solutions used by Apple’s suppliers to support their 
commitments to 100 percent renewable energy for Apple production. 
Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   42 SuppliersWorking in partnership
From human rights to climate change, there 
exists a wide range of issues that are bigger 
than any one company or organization. They 
require a multi-stakeholder approach, bringing 
together the best thinking from a range of sectors 
and geographies to address these issues at a 
systemic level.
To do this, we engage with industry associations, 
civil society organizations, academics, UN 
agencies, and governments to share our progress 
and promote best practices. We also regularly 
convene stakeholder roundtables and expert 
groups to learn from others’ perspectives and 
seek feedback on our programs.
For more information on all of our efforts and 
programs to protect people and the environment 
throughout our supply chain, please refer to the 
following reports and disclosures:
• People and Environment in Our Supply Chain, 
2021 Annual Progress Report  
• How We Work With Suppliers
• 2020 Conflict Minerals Report
• 2020 Supplier List
• 2020 Smelter and Refiner List
• 2020 Efforts to Combat Human Trafficking  
and SlaveryUsing our purchasing power for good
For Apple, our work to make our company more inclusive extends 
to how we choose the businesses we work with. When contracting 
with suppliers, we use our purchasing power to increase diversity 
in the field and change outdated norms that hurt those who are 
underrepresented in their field or industry.
Apple’s award-winning20 Supplier Diversity program, 
established in 1993, actively engages suppliers from historically 
underrepresented communities. We have policies that require 
diverse supplier participation during early-stage sourcing, key 
performance indicators to measure company success, and 
diversity awareness trainings for our global sourcing team 
members and related Apple business units. In 2016, Apple 
was the first Silicon Valley–based company to be invited 
into the Billion Dollar Roundtable (BDR) in recognition of our 
long-standing commitment to promoting diversity within our 
supplier base. BDR celebrates corporations that achieved 
spending of at least $1 billion with minority- and woman-owned 
businesses. In calendar year 2020, Apple spent $5 billion with 
diverse suppliers around the world.21 Our program offers support 
to participating suppliers and seeks active engagement in 
industry diversity leadership activities.
One highlight of this program is that minority-owned banks are 
included in our debt offerings. For the last 14 U.S. bond offerings, 
we selected minority-owned banks as underwriters and have 
expanded both the number of firms we include and the allocation 
and fees that we pay them. Our February 2021 $14 billion bond 
issuance resulted in one of the largest amount of fees paid to 
minority-owned banks on a single bond deal by a corporation.
We’re also promoting diversity in the companies with which we 
do business. For example, our contracts with law firms require 
that the attorneys staffing our projects include members of 
traditionally underrepresented groups, and provide anonymized 
timekeeper data. It’s not only a contract term. In day-to-day 
practice, we’ve implemented “diversity blend” commitments—
how much billable time the firm will commit to have performed by 
people from underrepresented communities, including women 
and LGBTQ+ lawyers—when bidding for work. By initiating these 
discussions at the contract negotiation stage, we are ensuring 
that diversity is core to our engagement. In recognition of this 
work, Apple has been awarded the Financial Times  Innovative 
Lawyer Award  for Inclusion, Diversity and Social Justice.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   43 Suppliers  
Communities
In this section
Community initiatives  45
Community investments  48
Job creation 51Apple’s Community Education 
Initiative (CEI) focuses 
on expanding learning 
opportunities in communities 
that are traditionally 
underrepresented and 
under-resourced in technology.Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   44 Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Environment CommunitiesAs a company with teams and customers around the world, we’re a member 
of a shared global community. Those connections inspire our commitment to 
act as a catalyst for positive change—change that uplifts the people we work 
with, increases access to opportunity, and helps build a better future for all. 
Whether we’re creating new tools for teachers and students, or new pathways 
for the next generation of diverse entrepreneurs, the through-line is our focus 
on advancing the always urgent cause of equity and justice.In her role as Vice President 
for Environment, Policy 
and Social Initiatives, Lisa 
Jackson leads Apple’s 
Racial Equity and Justice 
Initiative and is responsible 
for Apple’s environmental 
initiatives, community 
education programs, 
product accessibility, 
and community giving. 
Community initiatives 
are managed through 
cross-functional 
collaboration with teams 
across Apple, including 
Treasury, Compliance, 
People, Real Estate & 
Development, Legal,  
and Education.Community initiatives
At Apple, we are committed to leaving the world 
better than we found it. That means supporting 
communities globally with initiatives that combat 
inequity and expand access to opportunity. 
Through efforts that address racial equity and 
justice, education, affordable housing, and 
more, we foster open communication with 
local community partners and stakeholders to 
understand dynamic challenges in order to drive 
meaningful impact. Apple supports these initiatives 
through strategic investments as well as donations 
to nonprofit partners.
Racial Equity and Justice Initiative 
We have an urgent responsibility to help dismantle 
systemic racism and support opportunities for 
communities of color. Our Racial Equity and 
Justice Initiative  (REJI), launched in June 2020 
and beginning in the United States, focuses on 
creating lasting change in three areas: expanding 
access to education, supporting criminal justice 
reform, and removing economic barriers for 
Black and Brown communities. Starting with a 
$100 million commitment, this initiative has spurred 
new partnerships and projects while inspiring us 
to weave a focus on equity and justice into  
everything we do. 
Access to education
REJI builds on our long-standing commitment 
to education. We’re partnering with schools in 
under-resourced communities to enrich their 
science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) 
programs, and to support educators and learners 
with Apple technology, curriculum, and hands-on 
professional learning. To deepen our engagement 
with historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) in the U.S., Apple helped launch the Propel 
Center, a global innovation and learning hub in 
Atlanta, Georgia, that offers innovation curricula, 
technology support, career opportunities, and 
fellowship programs. In addition, we are deepening 
and expanding our work with new innovation grants 
for HBCU engineering programs, a Fellows program 
for educators, and academic scholarships.
Criminal justice reform
We support organizations that continue to 
challenge a justice system that disproportionately 
fails Black and Brown people. These include the 
Equal Justice Initiative, Leadership Conference 
Education Fund, the King Center, and the 
Birmingham Civil Rights Institute.
Economic equality
Black founders and developers in the technology 
sector face systemic barriers, especially when 
starting and leading companies. Programs like 
our Entrepreneur Camp for Black Founders and 
Developers  give app founders and developers 
guidance and support from Apple experts so 
they can take their app experience to the next 
level. We’re also partnering with Michigan 
State University to open an Apple Developer 
Academy in Detroit, a city with a vibrant Black 
entrepreneur and developer community and over 
50,000 minority-owned businesses.22 Our work 
to promote Black and Brown businesses extends 
to our own business activities, where we are 
increasing Apple’s spend with diverse suppliers.
Read more in Using our purchasing power 
for good  (p43).Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   45 CommunitiesIn January 2021, we announced two financial 
commitments to support Black and Brown 
entrepreneurs. We are investing $10 million in 
Harlem Capital, an early-stage venture capital firm 
based in New York with a mission to support 1000 
diverse founders over the next 20 years. And Apple 
is investing $25 million in Siebert Williams Shank’s 
Clear Vision Impact Fund, increasing loan capital 
for small- and medium-sized minority-owned 
businesses and underserved communities. 
In May 2021, building on these two commitments, 
we supported VamosVentures, a Latinx-owned 
fund investing in technology-enabled companies 
led by Latinx and diverse founders, and Collab 
Capital, which aims to decrease the racial wealth 
gap by helping Black-founded businesses 
overcome the funding and network challenges  
that often stifle their growth.
To ensure that our work to protect the planet 
also enhances equity, we launched an Impact 
Accelerator for Black- and Brown-owned 
businesses. Read more about Apple’s Impact 
Accelerator  (p9).
Education 
We believe access to education is a human 
right, and that everyone has their own way 
of learning and expressing themselves. We 
work hard to ensure our resources are used to 
uplift communities around the world, creating 
opportunities for educators and students to 
gain coding skills and unlock creativity. 
Community Education Initiative 
Inspired by the impact of our ConnectED initiative  
and programs like Everyone Can Create and 
Everyone Can Code, we launched CEI in 2019 with 
a focus on expanding learning opportunities in 
communities that are traditionally underrepresented 
and under-resourced in technology. Through 
educational partnerships across the U.S., we’ve 
been able to reach tens of thousands of students 
and educators who might not have had access to 
our technology and education tools.CEI partners with K–12 and higher education 
institutions, community-based organizations, and 
nonprofits to bring coding, creativity, and workforce 
development opportunities to educators and 
learners of all ages. CEI aims to build knowledge 
and skills for high-demand, high-growth technical 
careers alongside communities of color to advance 
educational equity. Our support includes hardware 
grants, monetary grants to support scholarships 
and programming, resources for educator 
training, curriculum development, and employee 
engagement opportunities. 
After starting with 10 communities in 2019, we are 
now working in dozens of locations around the 
U.S.—including with 36 HBCUs—to create more 
coding, creativity, and other learning opportunities. 
Grounded in the positive relationships that we have 
created, we are working to deepen our impact in 
three areas:
• Educator development:  We’re providing 
educator development and training opportunities 
to build the knowledge and skills educators 
need to teach coding in underrepresented 
communities through Teacher Coding 
Academies and the CEI Learning Series, in 
which hundreds of teachers from around the 
U.S. can meet virtually to share best practices 
on remote learning. Through our Academies 
and CEI Learning Series, we are connecting CEI 
educators with Apple Distinguished Educators 
from all around the world. Apple Distinguished 
Educators lead and participate in learning 
workshops, along with our Apple Professional 
Learning Specialists.
• Partnerships:  We’re partnering with 
nonprofits, NGOs, and community-based 
organizations that provide out-of-school-time 
learning experiences.
• Supporting minority-serving institutions:   
We’re especially focused on expanding our 
engagement with minority-serving institutions, 
including HBCUs, HSIs, and tribal colleges and 
universities, as well as community colleges and 
public schools in underserved communities. 
Read more about how we 
design our products to 
support education  (p29).Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   46 CommunitiesApple Developer Academy
As the app economy continues to grow, 
we’re investing in educational programs and 
opportunities that prepare learners of all ages 
for the jobs of the future. The Apple Developer 
Academy  partners with educational institutions to 
create an immersive 10- to 12-month program that 
enables up-and-coming developers to apply the 
latest technologies, build their businesses, and 
market their ideas globally.
In 2013, we started the Apple Developer Academy 
to empower entrepreneurs, creators, and coders 
by helping them cultivate the skills necessary to 
pursue new career opportunities. The program 
focuses on communities with high youth 
unemployment and is open to anyone, regardless 
of academic background or experience. The 
program also seeks to attract women to software 
development, a field where they’re grossly 
underrepresented. In seven years, participation 
among women in the Apple Developer Academy 
has grown from 6 to 36 percent. 
Currently available in several countries, Apple 
Developer Academy consists of:
• The Foundation Program:  A 30-day 
introductory program designed for learners 
considering app economy careers and looking 
to better understand what it means to be 
a developer. This program plays a critical  
role in sparking interest among the next 
generation of developers and bringing diverse 
representation to the growing app ecosystem, 
particularly among women and individuals from 
underrepresented communities.
• The Academy:  An intensive 10- to 12-month 
program that helps aspiring developers build 
the skills needed to participate in opportunities 
within the app economy and even start their 
own businesses. In addition to partnering 
with institutions, the Academy works closely 
with employers to provide direct pathways to 
career opportunities.
Our 22 Foundation Programs and 17 Academies 
include close collaborations with institutions that 
provide content and experience opportunities.160+ 
new companies have been 
founded by Apple Developer 
Academy graduates.1500+ 
apps on the App Store were 
created by Apple Developer 
Academy graduates.
51 
nationalities are represented 
among Apple Developer 
Academy graduates.
As of July 2021, Apple has deployed more than $1 billion toward affordable housing projects and homeowner 
assistance programs in California this year, including this Charities Housing Development Corporation project in 
San Jose, financed in partnership with Housing Trust Silicon Valley.. Entrepreneur Camp
Research shows that female and Black business 
founders and leaders face specific challenges 
in the technology sector. That’s why we created 
Apple Entrepreneur Camp, an immersive tech lab 
for app-driven companies founded and led by 
developers from underrepresented backgrounds. 
The camp offers one-on-one guidance from Apple 
experts and engineers, mentorship from Apple 
leaders, and ongoing support through a growing 
alumni community.
Apple held its first-ever Entrepreneur Camp in 2019 
with a class of women founders and developers. 
As part of our ongoing commitment to dismantle 
barriers to opportunity, in early 2021 we welcomed 
leaders and their teams from 13 app companies as 
the inaugural cohort of our Entrepreneur Camp for 
Black Founders and  Developers . 
Affordable Housing Initiative
Through our Affordable Housing Initiative , 
announced in 2019, we have made a 
comprehensive $2.5 billion commitment to 
address the housing availability and affordability 
crisis in California. Together with government and 
community-based organizations, the initiative has 
sought to jump-start long-term developments, help 
first-time buyers purchase homes, and support 
new housing and related programs to alleviate 
homelessness. To date, we have deployed more 
than $1 billion supporting projects and communities 
in more than 25 counties across California.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   47 CommunitiesIn partnership with the California Housing Finance 
Agency (CalHFA), Apple has provided mortgage 
and down payment assistance to thousands of 
first-time buyers with low and moderate incomes, 
with additional benefits for teachers, veterans, 
and firefighters. Apple has also partnered with 
CalHFA to launch an affordable housing investment 
program, the first of its kind in California, which 
has increased the availability of funding to develop 
and build very low- to moderate-income housing 
at a lower cost. And we are supporting several new 
affordable housing projects funded through our 
partnership with the Housing Trust Silicon Valley. Many of the new units are reserved for veterans, 
the homeless or formerly homeless, and residents 
with developmental disabilities.
Apple’s Affordable Housing Initiative also includes 
a partnership with Destination: Home, which has 
helped fund the construction of thousands of new 
units of affordable and supportive housing for the 
most vulnerable populations across Silicon Valley. 
With our support, Destination: Home has also 
been able to expand its Homelessness Prevention 
System to keep thousands of families from losing 
their homes each year.
Community investments 
We invest in communities through donations to 
nonprofit organizations as well as through strategic 
investments. Over the past three years, we’ve 
committed over $3 billion toward donations and 
values-focused investments such as our  
Affordable Housing Initiative, REJI, clean energy 
investments, and the Apple Restore Fund. Strategic 
investments are often multiyear commitments in 
which Apple plays a substantive role in the project 
development. We see an important opportunity 
to continue to invest our capital for good. While 
donations and investments are accounted for 
separately, we undertake both with one common 
goal: to create meaningful change in communities 
around the world.
Our corporate donations seek to accelerate  
social change by supporting organizations that  
are addressing society’s toughest problems.  
We empower employees to contribute to the 
causes they care about by amplifying their efforts 
through matching their donations. Our swift 
response to the COVID-19 crisis, which included 
over $120 million23 in donations, is a reflection of 
our commitment to being a source of relief and 
recovery in the face of global challenges.Corporate donations
Since fiscal year 2015, Apple has donated over 
$1 billion24 to create positive change in communities 
across the globe.25 Whether it’s racial injustice, food 
insecurity, a natural disaster, or a health emergency, 
our community giving program is agile enough 
to allow us to respond in a timely, efficient, and 
effective way. We support nonprofit organizations in 
a variety of ways, including financial resources and 
Apple technology and expertise from our teams.
Accelerating social change 
We have designed our corporate donations to 
address immediate needs and to build community 
resilience. Recent work includes launching our REJI 
commitment to further racial equity and justice, 
donating to the COVID-19 response, including 
financial support and helping to source PPE, and 
addressing housing scarcity and homelessness in 
California through our Affordable Housing Initiative.$2.5B 
We’ve committed $2.5 billion  
toward projects that address  
housing affordability and  
availability in California.
$3B+
In the past three years,  
we’ve committed over 
$3 billion in strategic, 
values-based investments 
and community donations.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   48 CommunitiesIn 2006, Apple joined (RED)’s  mission to end the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa, and 
over the last 14 years our partnership has delivered 
almost $250 million in donations for the Global 
Fund’s HIV/AIDS programs for prevention, testing, 
and counseling. Since 2006, Apple-supported 
grants have provided over 10.8 million people 
with care and support services, helped distribute 
more than 167 million HIV tests, and provided 
13.8 million people with ongoing access to 
life-saving antiretroviral treatment. COVID-19 has 
created challenges in accessing care, diagnostics, 
and supplies, often disrupting crucial HIV/
AIDS programs. At the onset of the pandemic, 
contributions to (RED) were redirected to the 
Global Fund’s COVID-19 Response to help alleviate 
the impact of the virus on the communities most 
affected by HIV/AIDS and provide critical support 
in health systems threatened by the outbreak.
Strengthening communities 
We believe we can have an impact on communities 
by supporting grassroots organizations that work 
directly with local stakeholders. We focus our 
donations on programs that are building strong 
communities and empowering creatives in the 
places where we live and work. Over the past 
several years, Apple has offered more than 70 
small grants across 12 countries—broadening our 
impact and bolstering essential community work 
around the world. The grants provide support for 
museums, music programs, art and technology 
education, and storytelling organizations. In 
partnership with Today at Apple and local 
community groups, we launched Today at Apple 
Creative Studios , a global program to develop the 
creative skills of young people from underinvested 
communities in 11 cities, with 23 nonprofit partners.
Dounia Larkoub in a scene from TOC TOC, a film she created with other participants in the program.Today at Apple Creative Studios, Grand Paris
Formerly titled Made In Grand Paris, this Apple program was a 
partnership in February 2021 with 1000 visages, an organization 
dedicated to bringing film industry opportunities to youth from 
underrepresented communities in France. With the support of an 
Apple grant, 1000 visages will extend its curriculum over the next 
three years and secure a permanent space to launch a free cinema 
school. They are equipped with iPhone, iPad, and Mac hardware 
and accessories so they can provide ongoing support to their young 
members by lending out these creative kits. Our Today at Apple 
Creative Pro team across France will also deliver annual dedicated 
sessions to support youth in their creative film projects.Amplifying Apple’s values
We are always looking for ways to support efforts 
that align with our Apple values. In 2018, Apple 
became Malala Fund’s first Laureate partner, 
supporting the organization’s work with local 
advocates and teachers in eight countries where 
girls face significant education challenges. The 
Fund champions every girl’s right to 12 years of 
safe, free, quality education. Apple also assists with 
technology, curriculum, and research into policy 
changes related to girls’ education. The partnership 
has since expanded, and in Brazil Apple’s 10 
Developer Academies now work with Malala Fund 
to further advance girls’ education opportunities. 
Since engaging in this powerful partnership, Apple 
has committed to donating more than $15 million 
to the Fund.Total corporate donations  
(excluding strategic 
investments)
FY18:
$125M+
FY19: 
$190M+
FY20: 
$250M+ Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   49 CommunitiesTo continue promoting diversity across the tech 
sector, Apple has long-standing commitments 
with Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF) 
and the National Center for Women & Information 
Technology (NCWIT), among others. The Apple 
Scholars program provides scholarships and 
mentorship to students from underrepresented 
backgrounds. In partnership with TMCF, this 
year Apple welcomed its sixth cohort of Apple 
HBCU Scholar interns, representing students 
from nearly 20 HBCUs. Our partnership with 
TMCF was announced in 2015 as a $40 million 
multiyear commitment.
Through donations, Apple works with a diverse 
set of partners to enhance environmental 
protections and support global communities. 
For example, for the launch of the Apple TV+ 
documentary The Elephant Queen , Apple 
partnered with Conservation International and 
Save the Elephants to support community-based 
elephant conservation in Kenya—including 
improved elephant tracking and the Reteti 
Elephant Sanctuary. 
Apple also celebrated the 104th birthday of the 
national parks with a donation to the National Park 
Foundation. With support from Apple, the National 
Park Foundation’s youth programs have given 
thousands of young people the chance to learn 
about and experience the parks through school 
activities, trips, and service corps programs. 
These programs include efforts to expand access 
to education, bring youth from underserved 
communities into the parks, and recruit interns 
from HBCUs.
Employee giving
Our Employee Giving program provides 
opportunities for employees to contribute to the 
causes they care deeply about with the support 
of Apple. From volunteering to donations to 
smaller individual actions, Apple is committed to 
giving, hand in hand with our team members. Our 
program promotes charitable giving to qualified 
organizations by matching donations of time, 
money, or Apple products. 400,000+ 
Employee volunteer hours 
in FY20.
53,000+ 
# of employee donors27 
in FY20.
Apple team members paint a mural at a school in Hong Kong as part of Apple’s Employee Giving program.
Since the program’s inception in 2011, Apple 
employees have helped raise nearly $600 million 
in total donations across 34,000 organizations, 
and volunteered more than 1.6 million hours.26 
Giving time
Apple matches $25 per hour volunteered 
with a qualified organization. Some of the 
ways employees give their time include lending 
skills in person or online, mentoring youth, and 
participating in outdoor cleanups or other local 
events with nonprofit organizations.
Giving a donation
When our employees donate money, Apple 
matches their donations. That way, every 
contribution goes further, every act inspires 
another, and every effort is amplified. Apple 
matches donations year-round, but in times 
of greater need, we have often increased the 
match cap up to $20,000 per employee.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   50 CommunitiesApple Developer Program 
membership is available at 
no cost for eligible nonprofit 
organizations, accredited 
educational institutions, and 
government entities that will 
distribute only free apps on 
the App Store.29 Job creation
Apple supports millions of jobs in countries around 
the world, across North America, Europe, Asia, 
Central and South America, Australia, and Africa. 
In the U.S., Apple is one of the biggest job creators, 
and we continue to expand our commitment to 
fostering innovation and opportunity in the U.S. 
economy. We support 2.7 million jobs across all 50 
states28 through direct employment, spending with 
U.S. suppliers and manufacturers, and the iOS app 
economy. Earlier this year, Apple announced an 
acceleration of its U.S. investments, with plans to 
make new contributions of more than $430 billion 
and add 20,000 new jobs across the country over 
the next five years. This includes a new North 
Carolina campus, which will create at least 3000 
new jobs in machine learning, artificial intelligence, 
software engineering, and other cutting-edge 
fields. In Europe, where we’ve been operating 
for more than 35 years, we support more than 
1.8 million jobs, a 25 percent increase since 2016.
Employees
Apple has 160,000 employees worldwide that 
span an increasingly wide range of roles, including 
hardware and software engineering, science, 
construction, manufacturing, retail, customer 
support, marketing, and design. 
Suppliers and manufacturers
Apple has a supply chain that spans the globe, with 
manufacturing and assembly taking place around 
the world, including in the U.S., Europe, Asia, 
Central and South America, and Australia. From 
component manufacturers to logistics providers, Apple directly or indirectly supports hundreds 
of thousands of jobs, working with suppliers 
and businesses in all 50 states in the U.S. and 
every European country. These suppliers provide 
equipment, parts, and materials for all of our 
core products.
Jobs in the app economy
Since the App Store launched in 2008, the 
iOS app economy has become one of the 
world’s fastest-growing sectors. Throughout 
the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the App Store continued to provide economic 
opportunities to entrepreneurs. The App Store 
ecosystem supports millions of jobs across the 
world, empowering entrepreneurs from Argentina 
and Alaska to Zimbabwe and beyond. In the U.S., 
it supports more than 2.1 million jobs, an increase 
of 15 percent since last year, and in Europe, it 
supports another 1.7 million jobs.
In January 2021, we launched the App Store Small 
Business Program, which benefits the vast majority 
of developers who sell digital goods and services 
on the App Store. The new program cuts the 
App Store commission in half—to 15 percent—for 
small businesses that earned up to $1 million in 
proceeds during the previous year. The reduced 
commission means small developers have more 
resources to create new jobs, expand their 
businesses, explore cutting-edge technologies, 
and pioneer new app innovations that reach users 
around the world.Introduction Our Business Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   51 CommunitiesOur  
Business
In this section
Corporate governance  53 
Our commitment to human rights 55
Ethics and compliance 56
Tax payments 58 
Stakeholder engagement  58In July 2020, Apple opened 
its second and largest retail 
location in Thailand, nestled 
in the heart of Ratchaprasong, 
Bangkok’s iconic intersection.Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   52 Introduction Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Our BusinessAt Apple, we’re committed to conducting business ethically, honestly, and in full 
compliance with the law. We believe that how we conduct ourselves is as critical 
to Apple’s success as making the best products in the world. Our Business 
Conduct and Compliance policies are foundational to how we do business and 
how we put our values into practice every single day.
Corporate governance
Our corporate governance structure is designed 
to foster principled actions, informed and effective 
decision-making, and appropriate monitoring 
of compliance and performance, assuring that 
the long-term interests of shareholders are 
being served. 
Board oversight 
Members of our Board of Directors take a proactive, 
focused approach to their positions to ensure that 
Apple is committed to business success through 
the maintenance of high standards of responsibility 
and ethics. Annual board evaluations—including 
self-evaluations and peer reviews—are led by 
the independent Chairman and overseen by the 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 
and drive accountability at the Board level.
Apple’s Board has a standing Audit and Finance 
Committee, Compensation Committee, and 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.30The Board and its committees review and discuss 
with management progress relating to Apple’s 
values. Further, the Board and its committees also 
review and discuss Apple’s commitments and 
progress on inclusion and diversity, employee 
engagement, compensation and benefits, and 
compliance. During 2020, the Board and its 
committees engaged with management on the 
impact of COVID-19 on Apple’s employees, supply 
chain, and business. The Board reviewed strategies 
and initiatives to respond to, and mitigate, adverse 
impacts, including enhanced health and safety 
measures for Apple employees as well as workers 
in our supply chain.
Apple also has internal systems and procedures for 
managing environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) topics, including with external stakeholders 
to learn about their priorities and get their feedback 
and to coordinate relevant projects and initiatives. 
Work on environmental and social initiatives is 
embedded across different lines of business, with 
broad collaboration to drive forward initiatives that 
are important to Apple.For more information on 
Apple’s business, read 
Apple’s Form 1 0-K  and 
our 2021 Proxy Statement .Introduction Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   53 Our BusinessBoard diversity and refreshment
Apple’s Board consists of a diverse group of highly 
qualified leaders in their respective fields. Among 
our eight Board members, three self-identify as 
women, and four self-identify as individuals from 
underrepresented communities.31 
In 2021, Monica Lozano, President and CEO 
of College Futures Foundation, joined Apple’s 
Board of Directors. Ms. Lozano brings a broad 
range of leadership experience in the public and 
private sectors, as well as a long and storied track 
record as a champion for equity, opportunity, 
and representation.Executive compensation
Our executive compensation program is built 
on sound compensation policies and practices 
and clear guiding principles that align executive 
compensation with our shareholders’ interests.
We manage Apple for the long term. Consistent 
with this approach, beginning in 2021, an ESG 
modifier based on Apple’s values and other key 
community initiatives has been incorporated into 
our annual cash incentive program. This change 
is intended to further motivate Apple’s executive 
team to meet exceptionally high standards of 
values-driven leadership in addition to delivering 
strong financial results. Selected areas of Board and committee oversight in 2020
Audit and 
Finance CommitteeCompensation  
CommitteeNominating and Corporate 
Governance CommitteeFull Board  
of Directors
Corporate and Product Strategy
Enterprise Risk Management
Legal and Regulatory Compliance
Tax
Privacy and Data Security
Environment
COVID-19 Response
People
Inclusion and Diversity
Governance and Stakeholder Engagement
Board and Executive Succession
50%
of leadership positions 
on our Board are held 
by women.
50%
of our directors are 
from underrepresented 
communities.Introduction Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   54 Our BusinessOur commitment to human rights
Our commitment begins with treating everyone 
with dignity and respect. But it doesn’t end there. 
We believe in the power of technology to empower 
and connect people around the world—and that 
business can and should be a force for good.
Apple’s Human Rights Policy
Our Human Rights Policy  governs how we treat 
everyone, including our customers, employees, 
business partners, and people at every level of our 
supply chain. 
We are deeply committed to respecting 
internationally recognized human rights in our 
business operations, as set out in the United 
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights 
and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights 
at Work. Our approach is based on the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). 
We conduct human rights due diligence to identify 
risks and work to mitigate them. We also seek to 
remedy adverse impacts, track and measure our 
progress, and report our findings.
Our Board of Directors adopted the policy and 
is responsible for overseeing and periodically 
reviewing it. Apple’s Senior Vice President 
and General Counsel is responsible for its 
implementation, and reports to the Board and its 
committees on our progress and significant issues.
Embedding respect for human rights 
We’ve worked hard to embed respect for human 
rights across our company—in the technology we 
make, the way we make it, and how we treat people. 
A number of teams are responsible for carrying out 
human rights due diligence, including the Privacy, 
Corporate, and Compliance teams within Apple’s 
Legal and Global Security organization—and 
Apple’s Environment and Supply Chain Innovation 
(ESCI) team within Worldwide Operations. Identifying and managing 
salient human rights risks 
Identifying human rights risks is the first step to 
addressing those risks through improvements to 
our policies and management systems. We work 
to align our efforts with the business and human 
rights due diligence process set forth in the UNGPs 
to identify, mitigate, prevent, and remedy human 
rights risks.
We identify salient human rights risks through 
internal risk assessments and external industry-level 
third-party audits, as well as through the channels we 
maintain with rights holders and other stakeholders, 
including investors, human rights and labor experts, 
governments, and international bodies such as 
the UN. 
In addition to our own internal monitoring, we 
consider reports identifying potential risks 
from external sources, including international 
organizations, policymakers, shareholders, civil 
society organizations, news outlets, customers, 
individuals in the supply chain or supply chain 
communities, whistleblower mechanisms, and 
third-party hotlines. They also come through the 
reporting mechanisms we make available directly 
toall supplier employees, Apple employees, and 
the general public. These reports can come to 
us in any language and can be anonymous. 
Based on this due diligence, examples of human 
rights issues of particular focus at Apple include:
• Privacy, freedom of expression, and access to 
information risks
• Discrimination risks in workforce management 
and in product and services development
• Labor and human rights risks in the 
manufacturing supply chain, including freedom 
of association and collective bargaining, risks of 
involuntary labor, and discriminationIntroduction Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   55 Our BusinessWe work to avoid, prevent, mitigate—and where 
appropriate, remediate—human rights issues and 
impacts across Apple’s business, including through 
our commitments to:
• Respecting the rights to privacy, freedom of 
expression, and access to information
• Promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion, 
including in our workforce, leadership, product 
and services development, and in our industry
• Respecting labor and human rights in our 
manufacturing supply chain, including freedom 
of association, collective bargaining, and 
the rights to be free from modern slavery 
and discrimination 
• Respecting human rights through our efforts 
to protect the planet in how we design, 
build, and recycle our products, and through 
responsible sourcing and use of materials 
and natural resourcesTracking progress
We’re committed to continually assessing our 
progress and incorporating what we learn into 
our work. We track and measure our performance 
across a range of areas, and apply the lessons we 
learn to continually improve. We publicly report 
detailed information on our approach and our 
performance in several areas, including: 
• Privacy Transparency Report  and Privacy 
Governance web page
• Inclusion and Diversity web page
• People and Environment in Our Supply Chain: 
Annual Progress Report
• Efforts to Combat Human Trafficking  
and Slavery
• Conflict Minerals Report
Ethics and compliance
Apple is committed to conducting business 
ethically, honestly, and in full compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Business conduct and compliance 
Apple’s Business Conduct Policy  provides a guide 
to our ethical requirements for our employees. 
The Policy includes our commitment to respect 
human rights and the principles that guide 
our business practices—honesty, respect, 
confidentiality, and compliance. Apple expects 
its suppliers, contractors, consultants, and other 
business partners to follow these principles when 
providing goods and services to Apple or acting 
on our behalf. 
Apple’s Business Conduct and Global Compliance 
team focuses on business conduct, political 
compliance, export and sanctions compliance, 
health compliance, antitrust compliance, 
and anti-corruption compliance. Additional 
compliance functions are integrated into 
our business organizations.Business Conduct and Global Compliance 
conducts internal and third-party independent 
assessments of its programs, as needed, to 
ensure they are effective. We make changes to 
our policies and our training to reflect emerging 
trends. Apple’s Chief Compliance Officer provides 
regular updates to the Board’s Audit and Finance 
Committee on the work done by the Business 
Conduct and Global Compliance programs and 
other compliance functions.
Training
Our employees take our values seriously, and 
our training helps guide them in making good 
decisions. Topics include workplace behaviors, 
conflicts of interest, gifts, confidentiality, 
competition, privacy, and Apple’s Human 
Rights Policy. We offer additional resources for 
employees to address questions and concerns, 
including the Business Conduct Helpline and 
the Business Conduct website.98%+
Employees completing 
business conduct training 
in calendar year 2020.Introduction Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   56 Our BusinessAll employees also get mandatory annual or 
biannual training on Privacy, Respect at Apple, and 
Inclusion and Diversity. Employees receive between 
two and five hours of training annually, depending 
on location and the risks and responsibilities of 
their role. Additional required and recurring training 
includes Anti-Corruption, Antitrust, Export and 
Sanctions, and manager-specific training. Our 
Board also regularly receives training and updates 
on ethics and compliance at Apple. 
Managers get supplementary resources and 
training on topics such as disability awareness 
and accommodations, discriminatory behavior, 
and their responsibilities to receive and report 
all allegations of misconduct. Apple also trains 
eligible contractors on our expectations for ethical 
behavior; topics include workplace behaviors, 
secrecy, privacy, and important laws. 
Compliance policies
Apple’s ethical business practices are set out in 
our Business Conduct Policy and additional key 
compliance policies.
Anti-corruption
Apple does not tolerate any form of corruption 
by Apple employees or by third parties when 
providing goods or services to Apple or acting on 
our behalf. Apple’s Ant i-Corruption Policy  details 
our commitment to complying with anti-corruption 
laws. If employees are unsure of the proper course 
of action, or whether something constitutes 
corruption, we encourage them to contact our 
Business Conduct team.
Export and sanctions
Apple is committed to compliance with applicable 
export and sanctions laws. All employees are 
responsible for complying with these laws and 
reporting possible violations.
Antitrust and competition
Apple is committed to conducting business in 
full compliance with competition laws around 
the world. Misconduct and violations of Apple’s 
Antitrust and Competition Law Policy  and the law 
must immediately be reported to our Antitrust Compliance Officer or to the Business Conduct 
Helpline. Apple’s Antitrust Compliance Officer 
regularly reports to the Board on matters including 
the Antitrust Compliance Program’s alignment with 
potential risks and its effectiveness in addressing 
issues and promoting legal compliance.
Public policy advocacy 
Apple engages in policy discussions where they 
matter to our business and customers. Our Public 
Policy Advocacy website  defines our position on 
corporate political contributions and describes how 
Apple participates in public debate in the United 
States through direct and indirect advocacy.
Apple does not make political contributions to 
individual candidates or parties, and we do not 
have a political action committee. Any political 
contributions made by Apple are made in the 
interests of the company and without regard for the 
private political preferences of individual executives 
or employees. Political contributions are promptly 
reported publicly on Apple’s website.
Reporting concerns
Our employees are required to speak up about any 
violation of Apple’s Business Conduct Policy, other 
Apple policies, or legal or regulatory requirements, 
and we make it easy for employees and third parties 
to report concerns.
Our employees can contact Apple’s Business 
Conduct team by phone, email, or web form. 
Apple’s external helpline  is available to employees 
and external parties to report concerns, and also 
provides the option of anonymous reporting, where 
permissible. The external helpline is available 24/7, 
and provides a multilingual reporting service with 
local, toll-free numbers. 
Business Conduct partners with appropriate teams 
at Apple to investigate concerns and determine 
appropriate resolutions, including corrective 
action up to and including termination where 
necessary. Apple will not retaliate—and will not 
tolerate retaliation—against any individual for 
reporting a good-faith concern or complaint, or for 
participating in the investigation of any complaint.For more information 
about Apple’s business 
compliance programs, 
read Apple’s Ethics and 
Compliance  website.296,000+
Hours spent on 
Apple-recommended and 
required trainings in 2020.555,000
Apple training courses 
completed in 2020.Introduction Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   57 Our BusinessStakeholder engagement
Apple engages with stakeholders as part of our 
commitment to advance meaningful change and find novel solutions to pressing challenges. Every day, at all levels of the business, we interact with a variety of stakeholders to listen and learn from others’ perspective and experiences, share our progress, and promote best practices. 
Throughout the year, we proactively engage 
with shareholders and other stakeholders. These engagements help us understand their perspectives on significant issues, from company performance, strategy, and corporate governance to executive compensation and other ESG topics. We take feedback and insights from our engagement with all stakeholders into consideration as we review and enhance our operations and disclosures, sharing them with our Board as appropriate.The following are examples of stakeholder groups that we actively engage with throughout the year, as described in this report and in the sources that we have referenced throughout: 
•
 C
olleges and universities
•
 C
ommunities
•
 Cust
omers
•
 E
mployees
•
 G
overnments
•
 H
uman rights and environmental defenders
•
 In
vestor advisory groups
•
 L
abor organizations
•
 N
GOs
•
 R
ights holders
•
 Sh
areholders and investors
•
 S
tandards bodies
•
 S
uppliers
•
 U
nited Nations and other 
international organizationsTax payments
Taxes play a necessary and important role in our 
society and Apple believes every corporation has a responsibility to pay all the taxes they owe. As the largest taxpayer in the world, we comply with the law wherever we operate and pay taxes on everything we earn around the world. Over the past decade, Apple has paid more than $100 billion in corporate income taxes—and our annual effective tax rate was 23 percent on average.
32 The Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors regularly reviews and discusses Apple’s tax payments with management. The committee reviews reports on tax matters from Apple’s Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, the heads of global Tax, Business Assurance, and Internal Audit, and from Apple’s independent auditor. These reports include, among other matters, updates on significant domestic and international tax-related developments, worldwide tax audits, international tax structure, international tax policy, and other tax-related legislative matters.Introduction Appendix Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   58 Our BusinessAppendix
In this section
Awards and recognition  60
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 61
About the report 63
Notes  64Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   59 Introduction Our Business Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment AppendixAwards and recognition
UN Climate Action  
Award (2019)Global Climat eActio n
Women’s Enterprise  
USA Magazine — 
Best of the Decade in   
Supplier Diversity (2019)Financial Times  Innovative 
Lawyers Award for 
Inclusion, Diversity and 
Social Justice (2020)
Safer Choice Partner  
of the Year award  
from the EPA (2020)“A” rating on  
CDP Climate  
Change
OMNIKAL Top 50  
Corporation for Inclusion  
in Procurement (received  
for past 5 years)
Thomson Reuters  
Stop Slavery Award  
(2018)
RE100 Leadership  
Award for Best Green 
Catalyst (2020)Apple has made the top 10 of the 
Top HBCU Supporters List. Ratings 
are a result of voting by HBCU 
Engineering Deans (2021)
A+ Mind the Store  
(2020): Recognized for  
the 3rd year in a row
Human Rights Campaign 
Corporate Equality Index,  
19th year in a row that we  
received a perfect scoreJUST  Capital ranking  
(1st in Industry)Apple awarded the first Corporate 
Information Transparency Index 
Master’s Level designation by 
China’s Institute of Public and 
Environmental Affairs (IPE)
Alliance for Water Stewardship: 
World’s First AWS Certified 
Data Center
Introduction Our Business Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   60 AppendixUnited Nations Sustainable Development Goals
We believe businesses have an important role to play in creating peace and prosperity for people and 
the planet, now and into the future. Initiatives across Apple help advance a number of the Sustainable 
Development Goals set out by the 193 Member States of the United Nations. 
UN Sustainable Development Goal Apple’s supporting initiatives
Goal 1
End poverty in all its forms everywhere• Affordable Housing Initiative
• Community Education Initiative 
• Supplier Standards  relating to minimum wages and benefits
• Commitment to competitive minimum wage
• Support for Malala Fund
• Donations help to alleviate poverty
Goal 2
End hunger, achieve food security 
and improved nutrition and promote 
sustainable agriculture• Donations to food banks, soup kitchens, and meals on wheels
Goal 3
Ensure healthy lives and promote 
well-being for all at all ages• Support for product (RED)
• Our work to promote health
• Smarter chemistry  in our products
• Environmental, health, and safety practices at Apple  and at supplier facilities
Goal 4
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality 
education and promote lifelong learning 
opportunities for all• Our work to support education
• Racial Equity and Justice Initiative
• Community Education Initiative
• Apple Developer Academy
• Supplier programs to promote education and professional development
• Support for Malala Fund
Goal 5
Achieve gender equality and empower 
all women and girls• Gender pay equity  and diversity policies and programs
• Anti-human trafficking policy and programs
• Supplier diversity programs
• Support for Malala Fund
Goal 6
Ensure availability and sustainable 
management of water and sanitation for all• Apple’s water stewardship programs  at our facilities and in our supply chain
• Apple’s Restore Fund  and support for ecosystem restoration and protection projects
• Responsible packaging initiatives
Goal 7
Ensure access to affordable, reliable, 
sustainable and modern energy for all• 100% renewable energy  for Apple facilities
• Supplier Clean Energy Program
• Supplier Energy Efficiency Program
• Power for Impact program
Goal 8
Promote sustained, inclusive and 
sustainable economic growth, full and 
productive employment and decent 
work for all• Job creation  and economic contributions of app store ecosystem
• Supplier diversity programs
• Racial Equity and Justice Initiative , including Apple’s Impact Accelerator
• Our commitment to a highly competitive wage
• Gender pay equity  and diversity policies and programs
• Programs to respect labor and human rights in our manufacturing supply chain
• Anti-human trafficking policy and programs
• Apple’s goal to create carbon neutral products  made of only recycled or renewable materialsIntroduction Our Business Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   61 AppendixUN Sustainable Development Goal Apple’s supporting initiatives
Goal 9
Build resilient infrastructure, promote 
inclusive and sustainable industrialization 
and foster innovation• Job creation
• Commitment to combat the housing crisis in California
• Supplier Clean Energy Program
• Apple’s procurement and generation of 100% renewable energy for its facilities
• Apple’s R&D investments in and creation of new technology
• Apple’s goal to create carbon neutral products  made of only recycled or renewable materials
Goal 10
Reduce inequality within and 
among countries• Inclusion and diversity at Apple
• Racial Equity and Justice Initiative
• Our commitment to a highly competitive wage
• Supplier diversity programs
• Training supplier employees on their rights  and for professional development
Goal 11
Make cities and human settlements 
inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable• Commitment to combat the housing crisis in California
Goal 12
Ensure sustainable consumption and 
production patterns• Transitioning all materials in Apple’s products and packaging to recycled and renewable sources
• Advancing zero waste initiatives  at our facilities and in our supply chain
• Incorporating smarter chemistry  in our products
• Advancing smarter chemistry in manufacturing
• Product trade-in and recycling programs
Goal 13
Take urgent action to combat climate 
change and its impacts• Our ambitious goals and programs to mitigate climate change , including our commitment to carbon 
neutrality for all of our products by 2030
• Advocating for strong climate change policy
Goal 14
Conserve and sustainably use the 
oceans, seas and marine resources for 
sustainable development• Reducing our impact on ocean acidification through our climate change mitigation activities
• Mangrove conservation
Goal 15
Protect, restore and promote sustainable 
use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably 
manage forests, combat desertification, 
and halt and reverse land degradation and 
halt biodiversity loss• Responsible packaging initiatives
• Apple’s Restore Fund  and support for ecosystem restoration and protection projects
Goal 16
Promote peaceful and inclusive societies 
for sustainable development, provide 
access to justice for all and build effective, 
accountable and inclusive institutions at 
all levels• Racial Equity and Justice Initiative , criminal justice reform
• Supplier Code of Conduct  (anti-corruption and non-discrimination practices)
• Apple’s Business Conduct Policy and Practices
• Supplier diversity programs
• Inclusion and diversity at Apple
Goal 17
Strengthen the means of implementation 
and revitalize the Global Partnership for 
Sustainable Development• Developing solutions to global challenges is never an easy journey, and it isn’t one that can be 
undertaken alone. We pursue partnerships with organizations around the world to further efforts to 
make the world better. These partnerships are described throughout this report and on apple.com .Introduction Our Business Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   62 AppendixAbout the report
Reporting year:  This report focuses primarily on fiscal year 2020 activities, unless otherwise noted. All 
references to a year throughout the report refer to Apple’s fiscal years, unless “calendar year” is specified. 
Apple’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September.
Alignment to reporting frameworks: The report leverages reporting frameworks and standards such as 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Apple’s ESG Index maps the disclosures in this report and 
other Apple publications against the metrics in these reporting frameworks, as relevant to our business.
Data assurance:  We obtain third-party verification for our Scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions, 
as well as our energy use, paper use, and waste and water impacts for our data centers, offices, and retail 
stores worldwide. Apex Companies (Apex) provides “reasonable assurance”—one of the highest levels of 
verification in the industry—for this environmental impact data. See the assurance statement for general 
environmental impact data . Scope 3 renewable energy production and avoided carbon emissions related 
to our Clean Energy Program are also verified to a level of “limited assurance” by Apex. See the assurance 
statement for data specific to the supplier Clean Energy Program . Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions 
related to our products, calculated using life cycle assessment, are checked for quality and accuracy 
by the Fraunhofer Institute in Germany in accordance with the internationally recognized ISO 14000 
environmental management standards: ISO 14040 and 14044. See the Fraunhofer statement . Data in this 
report reflects estimates using methodologies and assumptions believed to be reasonable and accurate. 
Those estimates, methodologies and assumptions may change in the future as a result of new information 
or subsequent developments.
Forward-looking statements: The report does not cover all information about our business. References 
in this report to information should not be construed as a characterization regarding the materiality of such 
information to our financial results or for purposes of the U.S. securities laws. The information covered 
by the report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our ESG goals, commitments, and strategies and 
related business and stakeholder impacts. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual 
results may differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, 
including any failure to meet stated ESG goals and commitments, and execute our strategies in the time 
frame expected or at all, as a result of many factors, including changing government regulations, and our 
expansion into new products, services, technologies, and geographic regions. More information on risks, 
uncertainties, and other potential factors that could affect our business and performance is included in our 
filings with the SEC, including in the “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations” sections of the company’s most recently filed periodic reports on 
Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and subsequent filings. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking 
statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.
Imagery:  All photographs in the report showing people without masks were taken prior to the COVID-19 
pandemic or in accordance with Apple and other local COVID-19 protocols.View Apple’s Environmental, 
Social, and Governance  
Index here .Introduction Our Business Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   63 AppendixNotes
1 The Science Based T argets initiative (SBTi) 
recently validated Apple’s emissions reduction 
target: 61.7 percent by 2030 relative to our 2019 
emissions. This SBTi-approved target is derived 
from our current target—to reduce emissions by 
75 percent by 2030—only with a 2019 base year, 
instead of 2015.
2 Based on sales-weighted averages of Mac, 
iPad, iPhone, Apple Watch, Apple TV, HomePod, 
AirPods, and Beats.
3 Eligible products are those in a product category 
for which ENERGY STAR certification exists. 
For more information, visit www.energystar.gov . 
ENERGY STAR and the ENERGY STAR mark 
are registered trademarks owned by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency.
4 Annualized metric tons of supply chain carbon 
compared to fiscal year 2019 metrics. In previous 
environmental progress reports, this metric was 
reported based on calendar year data.
5 The Impact Accelerator is a capacity-building 
program for companies that are at least 51 percent 
owned, operated, and controlled by an African 
American, Hispanic American/Latinx, or Indigenous 
American individual.
6 Includes all devices collected by Apple for 
refurbishing during fiscal year 2020.
7 This total includes freshwater use as well as 
alternative water sources, including recycled water, 
rainwater, and recovered condensate. We define 
freshwater as drinking-water quality, the majority of 
which comes from municipal sources and less than 
5 percent comes from onsite groundwater sources. 
Recycled water represents a key alternative water 
source. Our recycled water is sourced primarily 
from municipal treatment plants, with less than 
5 percent from onsite treatment. Recycled water 
is primarily used for irrigation, make-up water in 
cooling, or toilet flushing. Other alternative sources 
of freshwater include rainwater and recovered 
condensate that is captured onsite. Water used 
for construction for activities like dust control is 
not included in this total, and represents 8 million 
gallons of water used in fiscal year 2020. Our 
actual water discharge may vary by 10 percent 
relative to our estimates. In these estimates, 
we’ve taken into account consumptive activities, 
including irrigation and cooling towers.8 These savings do not include reduction in water 
use from facility closures and reduced occupancy 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We consider those 
savings temporary and also acknowledge that the 
water use was transferred to employees’ homes.
9 All established final assembly supplier sites—or 
those that have been Apple suppliers for more 
than one year—for iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple 
Watch, AirPods, HomePod, Apple TV, and Beats 
are third-party certified as Zero Waste by UL 
LLC (UL 2799 Standard). UL requires at least 
90 percent diversion through methods other than 
waste to energy to achieve Zero Waste to Landfill 
(Silver 90–94 percent, Gold 95–99 percent, and 
Platinum 100 percent) designations.
10 Though we do not use the Federal Employer 
Information Report EEO-1 to measure progress, 
our most recent filing is publicly available on our 
Inclusion & Diversity website. Our annual EEO-1 
reports have been made available since 2015.
11 Apple benefit programs vary by country, and are 
subject to eligibility requirements, and may be 
modified from time to time. Many programs extend 
to full-time and part-time employees globally, but 
there can be significant variations by country due 
to local law.
12 Free, confidential counseling for employees and 
eligible dependents, subject to annual limits.
13 Family and reproductive healthcare benefits 
described in this report are specific to 
U.S. employees.
14 As of July 28, 2021. 
15 As of July 28, 2021.
16 Includes donations through the third quarter of 
fiscal year 2021.
17 As of August 2021.
18 Based on surveys conducted by 451 research in 
the U.S.
19 Net Promoter®, NPS®, NPS Prism®, and the 
NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks 
of Bain & Company, Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., 
and Fred Reichheld. Net Promoter ScoreSM and 
Net Promoter SystemSM are service marks of Bain 
& Company, Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and 
Fred Reichheld.20 Apple’s Supplier Diversity program has received or 
contributed to Apple’s receipt of dozens of awards 
and recognition in the last 10 years, including “Best 
of the Decade in Supplier Diversity” by Women’s 
Enterprise USA Magazine (2019), and the “Top 50 
Corporations for Inclusion” by OMNIKAL (2021).
21 “Diverse Suppliers” are minority-owned (African 
American/Black, Indigenous, Hispanic/Latinx, 
Asian Pacific, and Asian Indian), women-owned, 
veteran-owned, service-disabled veteran-owned, 
LGBTQ+-owned, and disabled-owned.
22 50,000 minority owned business in Detroit.
23 Includes donations through the third quarter of 
fiscal year 2021.
24 Includes donations through the third quarter of 
fiscal year 2021.
25 Aggregate donations from fiscal year 2015 through 
June 2021.
26 Employee giving figures reflect data as of the end 
of fiscal year 2020.
27 Number of employees that received matching 
contributions from Apple—monetary, product, and/ 
or volunteer time.
28 Job creation estimate based on research by 
Dr. Michael Mandel, Progressive Policy Institute, 
August 2020.
29 Membership fee waivers for the Apple Developer 
Program are limited to eligible regions listed 
on https://developer.apple.com/support/
membership-f ee-waiver/
30 The Board has determined that all committee 
members are independent under applicable 
Nasdaq and Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC) rules for committee memberships, and that 
each member of the Audit Committee also meets 
the additional independence criteria set forth in 
Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended.
31 In the context of Apple’s Board of Directors, we 
define underrepresented communities as an 
individual who self-identifies as Black, African 
American, Hispanic, Latino, Asian, Pacific Islander, 
Native American, Native Hawaiian, or Alaska Native, 
or who self-identifies as gay, lesbian, bisexual, 
or transgender.
32 Total tax payments and average annual effective 
tax rate reflect data through fiscal year 2020.Introduction Our Business Our People Suppliers Customers Communities Environment Apple’s 2021 ESG Report   64 Appendix