Apple developed a new alloy that enables us to use  
100 percent recycled aluminum without compromising quality.Environmental  
Responsibility 
Report 
2019 Progress Report, covering fiscal year 2018Contents
3 Introduction  
 • Letter from Lisa Jackson  
 • Our Environmental Strategy  
 • 2018 Highlight s
6 Climate Change
22 Resources 
43 Smarter Chemistry 
50 Better Together 
55 Appendix A  
 Apple’s Operations: Environmental Data  
 • Facilities Environmental Performance Indicators  
 • Product Environmental Performance Indicators  
 • Scopes 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions Breakdown  
 • Natural Gas and Electricity Use (fiscal year 2018)
60 Appendix B  
 Facilities Renewable Energy Supplement 
69 Appendix C  
  Assurance and Review Statements  
• Facilities energy, carbon, waste, and water data (Bureau Veritas)  
• Product life cycle carbon footprint (Fraunhofer Institute)  
• Supplier clean energy program (Bureau Veritas)  
• Fiber footprint (Fraunhofer Institute)  
• Packaging plastic footprint (Fraunhofer Institute) 
86 Appendix D  
 Environmental Health and Safety Policy Statement 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   2 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherCreating powerful solutions to push humanity 
forward takes relentless innovation. Resolving to 
do this without taking precious resources from the 
planet means holding ourselves and our suppliers to 
ever higher standards. We know that accomplishing 
this work will require all of our best efforts. At Apple, 
we are committed to building groundbreaking 
products and services with the mission to leave 
our world better than we found it.
It was just a year ago that we reached our goal of covering 100 percent of our operations with 
100 percent renewable electricity. That work continues as we source the clean energy needed 
to maintain that standard — even as our company grows. And our learnings have paid off in 
significant ways as we help the manufacturers in our supply chain make the same energy 
transition we have. To date, more than 40 suppliers have made commitments to join us, putting 
us well on track to exceed our goal of putting 4 gigawatts of clean energy online by 2020. 
At the same time, we are launching the next phase of our industry-leading work to better use 
and reuse materials with a state-of-the-art lab to support our research and innovation with 
material recovery. This initiative, along with Daisy - our fearless disassembly robot, means 
we’re doing even more with the materials from old devices our customers return for recycling. 
And we’ve found new ways to make it easier for devices that still have value to go on to another 
user. Our launch of the new MacBook Air and Mac Mini with enclosures made from 100% 
recycled aluminum was just the beginning: Together, we’re pioneering a future where we no 
longer need to mine precious materials from the Earth to make our products. 
At Apple, it’s simple. We apply the same level of innovation that goes into everything we create, 
design, power and manufacture to making things better for people and the planet. And we 
make it simple for customers and partners who share our passion to join us in this work. 
In a time where the threats facing our planet are too great to ignore, we are demonstrating 
that businesses must play a vital role. We are proud to do the hard work, to make the 
breakthroughs, and tirelessly search for ways to ensure the better future for our planet that 
we all deserve.Lisa Jackson 
Vice President, Environment,  
Policy & Social Initiatives
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   3 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherWe’ve embarked on a bold mission to make products without taking from the 
Earth. Getting there requires focus and innovation in three key areas:
Climate change:  We take responsibility for the emissions associated with our 
own operations, as well as the entire lifecycle of all our products and accessories.  
Resources: We believe in conserving Earth’s resources when operating our 
facilities and making our products.  
Smarter chemistry:  We believe that our products should be safe for anyone 
who assembles, uses, or recycles them.Our ambition:  
to make products 
without taking 
from the Earth. 
Climate change      
 
                 Resources
Smarter chemistryEnergy efficiency  
Reduce energy use 
at corporate and 
supplier facilities Low-carbon design  
Transition product 
materials, manufacturing 
processes, and operating 
systems to low-carbon 
alternatives
Mapping and 
engagement   
Create a comprehensive 
inventory of chemicals 
used by suppliers to 
make our productsAssessment and  
management  
Assess and manage chemicals 
for risks to human health and  
the environmentInnovation  
Transition to safer 
chemistries through 
chemical innovations, 
beyond what is required  Materials  
Transition to recycled or 
renewable materials in our 
products and maximize 
material efficiency, product 
longevity, and recovery
Water stewardship  
Reduce freshwater use, 
improve the quality of 
water we discharge, and 
demonstrate leadership 
by protecting shared 
water resources
Zero waste  
Eliminate waste sent to 
landfill at manufacturing 
facilities as well as 
corporate offices,  
data centers, and  
retail stores Our 
environmental 
strategyRenewable energy  
Transition Apple and 
our suppliers to 100% 
renewable energy
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   4 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Togetherrecycled aluminum enclosures 
in MacBook Air and Mac mini1
Our products are free of harmful 
chemicals like mercury, brominated 
flame retardants, PVC, phthalates, 
beryllium, lead in the solder, and 
arsenic in the display glass3We’ve expanded our 
inventory of detailed 
chemical composition data 
to over 75% by mass for  
all new iPhone, iPad, and 
Mac productsresponsibly sourced wood 
fiber in all retail packaging2priority materials for 
transitioning to 100% recycled 
or renewable content100% 100% 14
75%Climate 
change
Significantly reducing 
emissions to address 
climate change
Resources
Transition to sourcing 
only renewable or 
recycled materials 
for our products  
and packaging
Smarter 
chemistry
Protecting the 
health of those who 
make, use, and 
recycle our products2018 Highlights
reduction in overall carbon 
footprint compared to 201535%
of our global facilities  
are powered by 100% 
renewable electricity100%
of supplier final assembly 
sites have adopted safer 
cleaners and degreasers
  100%decrease in average product 
energy use in 10 years70%
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   5 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherTaking big 
steps toward 
a smaller 
footprint. Climate ChangeApple is investing in 485 megawatts of 
renewable energy projects in China to 
address upstream supply chain emissions. 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report  6 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together8  Our Approach
9  Our Carbon Footprint
11  Renewable Energy
18  Low-Carbon Design
20 Energy EfficiencyClimate Change
We’re reducing our impact on climate change by using clean power sources and driving energy 
efficiency in our operations. The electricity at all of our facilities worldwide, including every Apple 
office, store, and data center, comes from 100 percent renewable energy—a standard we have 
maintained, even as we continue to grow. And we’re doing even more to transition our suppliers to 
100 percent renewable energy and make our products of low-carbon materials.
Emissions reductions
We’ve significantly reduced our carbon 
emissions: by 64% since 2011 for 
Apple’s direct operations (Scope 1 and 2 
emissions) and by 35% for Apple’s entire 
footprint since it peaked in 2015. Supplier clean energy
44 Apple suppliers have committed to 
power all of their Apple production with 
100% renewable energy. With these 
pledges, we are on track to far exceed 
our 2020 goal to bring 4 gigawatts of 
new clean energy into our supply chain.  
Component reductions
In the last year, we’ve reduced emissions 
from aluminum in our products by 45%. 
100% renewable energy
We’re sourcing 100% renewable energy 
for all the electricity used at our facilities 
in 43 countries around the world. Two-
thirds of this renewable energy comes 
from Apple-created projects.  Product energy efficiency
In 10 years, we’ve reduced average 
product energy use by 70%.4
Facilities energy efficiency
We saved 41.5 million kilowatt-hours  
(kWh) through energy efficiency 
initiatives at our global facilities.Highlights
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   7 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Our approach to climate change 
Energy efficiency  
Reduce energy use  
at corporate and  
supplier facilitiesLow-carbon design  
Transition product materials, 
manufacturing processes, 
and operating systems to  
low-carbon alternatives Renewable energy  
Transition Apple and 
our suppliers to 100% 
renewable energyOur Approach 
We measure more, so we can do more. 
We take responsibility for our entire carbon footprint. That includes the emissions beyond our 
direct control, like those from sourcing materials, making our products, and our customers 
using their devices. We calculate our carbon footprint in five major areas: corporate facilities, 
product manufacturing, product use, product transportation, and product end-of-life 
processing. We use this information to tell us where to focus. 
We prioritize use of renewable energy, starting with our own facilities. We’ve transitioned 
to 100 percent renewable energy for the electricity we use at our offices, retail stores, and 
data centers around the world, which has reduced facilities emissions to only 2 percent of 
our comprehensive carbon footprint.5 And we’ve extended our efforts into our supply chain, 
where product manufacturing represents 74 percent of overall emissions. Whether designing 
a product, an operating system, or a manufacturing process, we consider the environmental 
impact—alongside cost, durability, form, and functionality. And because the cleanest energy 
is the energy you never use, we’re reducing energy use at facilities we operate as well as those 
where our suppliers make our products.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   8 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Apple calculates its life cycle carbon  
footprint to understand where to focus 
reduction efforts.Apple’s overall carbon footprint  
(fiscal year 2018)
    2%  Corporate facilities
<1%   End of life5% Product transport74% Manufacturing
19%  Product use
      steel            electronics9               display                       other manufacturing8                                    aluminum                                       boards and flexes7integrated circuits6
assem
blyfinaliOS active charge10macOS
active11  macOS
idle12other13
Apple’s carbon footprint
metric tons of CO 2e 25.2  million
Note: Manufacturing, Product use, Product transport, and End of life are Scope 3 emissions. Corporate facilities includes Scope 1 and 2 emissions, in addition to Scope 3 emissions associated with employee 
commute and business travel. All emissions data is detailed in Appendix A.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   9 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
0 010
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Fiscal year2014 2015 2016 2017 2018140210270
70203040
Apple revenue Lifecycle carbon footprint Emission reductionsApple’s carbon footprint (million metric tons CO2e)
Annual revenue (billion $)Historical carbon footprint
Since 2015, Apple’s emissions reduction efforts have led to a significant decline in its  
comprehensive carbon footprint. Without these efforts, Apple’s fiscal year 2018 emissions  
would have been 35 percent greater.
Note: We have been calculating the life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of our products since 2007. Over time, we have greatly 
refined our model to include more Apple-specific data instead of industry averages. We made significant modeling changes 
in fiscal year 2016 to improve how we calculate emissions from the integrated circuits in Apple products, which resulted in a 
decrease in manufacturing emissions. And we make systematic changes each year to reflect changes in global electricity grids. In fiscal year 2018, we reduced our comprehensive carbon footprint for the third year in a 
row—down 35 percent compared to 2015. A major contributor to the decrease was Apple’s 
Supplier Clean Energy Program, which lowered our carbon footprint by nearly 3.6 million metric 
tons compared to last year. We also made several product design changes that reduced our 
carbon footprint, like sourcing aluminum made with hydroelectricity and recycled content, 
improving product energy efficiency, and redesigning integrated circuits to use less silicon. 
Together, these product design changes resulted in 4.8 million fewer metric tons of carbon 
emissions compared to last year.
Historically, Apple’s carbon footprint has paralleled its financial performance. However, 
beginning in 2015, our environmental work has driven down our carbon emissions, even as 
revenue has increased. 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   10 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Renewable Energy 
Charting the course to 100%. 
Apple pursues the strongest possible renewable solution in all markets where we operate. We 
stress a regional approach, with long-term energy contracts from new projects we help create.  
The following three principles guide this strategy: 
• Local displacement.  We seek to displace more-polluting forms of energy in the same 
electric grid region as our facilities. We accomplish this by having Apple-created projects 
deliver into the grid as much renewable energy as our facilities take from it. In difficult 
renewable energy markets where our needs are less than 0.5 percent of our total energy 
use, we seek a renewable energy solution in the broader geographic region.
• Materiality.  We want our involvement in a renewable energy project to be a driving force 
to getting it built. That might mean providing needed financial support or helping the 
project overcome regulatory barriers. With the rapidly changing policy dynamics in some 
of our key countries, we’re adapting our framework to continue to comply with local laws 
and regulations and to yield the most positive and real energy transformation.
• Accountability.  We apply rigor in measuring and tracking our energy supply resources 
and use third-party registries such as WREGIS and NC-RETS, certification programs such 
as Green-e Energy, and contractual provisions to ensure that only Apple takes credit for 
the renewable energy it generates or procures. When no such system exists, we work with 
industry partners and governmental entities to create them.
Apple Park, our newest corporate headquarters, 
obtains about 75 percent of its power from  
onsite fuel cells and rooftop solar PV panels.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   11 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Powering all our facilities with  
100% renewable energy. 
Since 2018, 100 percent of the electricity we’ve used at our facilities has come from renewable 
sources. To secure renewable energy projects, we’ve taken on project ownership, made equity 
investments, sparked creative new partnerships with utilities, and entered into power purchase 
agreements. We’ve also deployed a variety of technologies like wind, solar PV, micro-hydro 
projects, and biogas fuel cells. (See Appendix B for a comprehensive view of solutions we’ve 
implemented to secure renewable energy at our facilities.)
 We first focus on energy efficiency to reduce the total electricity we use, then source 
renewables for our remaining needs. We create new renewable energy projects whenever 
possible. As of January 2019, approximately 66 percent of the renewable energy Apple uses 
comes from projects that Apple created. And we aim to soon cover our entire electricity load 
with Apple-created projects. We use three contracting structures to do this.
• Direct ownership.  Where feasible, we source our own renewable energy by building our 
own projects, including solar, wind, biogas fuel cells, and low-impact hydro projects.
• Equity investment.  In some markets, we invest capital to become part owner of new 
solar PV or wind projects and match that renewable generation with our energy use.
• Long-term renewable energy contracts.  At other times, we sign long-term contracts 
for renewable energy in order to support new, local projects that meet our robust 
renewable energy sourcing principles, primarily solar PV and wind projects.
In cases where we need more renewable energy than what’s generated by our Apple-created 
projects, we directly purchase renewable energy from newer projects in nearby markets, or 
through available utility green energy programs. When these options are not available, we are 
willing to procure robust renewable energy credits (RECs) tied to recently constructed projects, 
applying the same rigor to these purchases as we do to our Apple-created renewables. When 
Apple acquires RECs, we require that they are Green-e Energy certified, where available, and 
come from the same power grid—and preferably in the same state or country—as the Apple 
facility they support.600 + MW
Of the renewable energy projects  
Apple has helped create, we have  
direct ownership in over 600 megawatts. 
This is among the largest direct 
investments in renewable energy  
by a non-energy company.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   12 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
How we’re staying at 100%.
To get to—and stay at—100 percent renewable energy for the electricity at our global facilities, 
we’ve implemented new approaches to securing renewable energy: We’ve expanded into new 
markets, we’re leveraging large projects to increase others’ access to renewable energy, and 
we’re investing in projects without support of government subsidies.
New markets.
Since 2017, we have been procuring renewable energy in new markets that we only recently 
entered or in which we have small loads—like India, Turkey, Israel, Brazil, Mexico, and Taiwan—
to cover our loads in those and neighboring countries. And as we continue to grow our global 
operations, we’ll continue building projects in new markets.
For example, in Taiwan we worked with a local partner to build a rooftop PV system and 
secured a long-term contract for Apple to own the project’s renewable energy certificates.  
We will verify our purchase by using Taiwan’s newly created T-REC tracking system.
Aggregation.
We’re investing in large-scale renewable energy projects in the Great Lakes and mid-Atlantic 
regions totaling 245 megawatts of generation: an Illinois wind farm and a Virginia solar PV 
array. These projects will cover our electricity use at our retail stores and offices on the 
East Coast, as well as co-located data facilities in Chicago, Illinois, and Ashburn, Virginia. In 
addition, we’ve directly helped other companies access the same high-quality renewables that 
Apple is procuring. By working with others, we can help open the renewable energy market to 
companies of all sizes and accelerate the pace of new renewable generation.
Subsidy-free projects.
As renewable energy markets around the world evolve and the technology becomes more 
cost-competitive, we’re looking to develop projects without the government subsidies that 
were designed to encourage development of renewable energy. This will enable us to retain 
ownership of the renewable energy credits of projects we invest in. In Denmark we contracted 
for a new wind farm and a 42-megawatt solar PV project—one of Denmark’s largest—using a 
commercially backed contract-for-difference power purchase agreement, the first of its kind  
in Denmark.
In China, we’re working to create cost-competitive, subsidy-free renewable energy solutions for 
our facilities and suppliers. To encourage this transition, we supported China’s voluntary REC 
market with the largest purchase to date, and kept our retail stores and corporate offices at  
100 percent renewable in the process.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   13 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
FY ‘11 FY ‘12 FY ‘13 FY ‘14 FY ‘15 FY ‘16 FY ‘17 FY ‘18 FY ‘190200,000400,000Metric tons CO2e600,000800,000
Apple emissions: Emissions after accounting for Apple’s renewable energy programEmissions avoided: Total emissions avoided due to its use of renewable energycumulative savings2.8  millionApple’s emissions since 2011 (Scopes 1 and 2) 
Since 2011, Apple has reduced emissions from our offices, data centers, retail stores, and fleet vehicles by 
64 percent—even while our energy use increased by more than 3 times in this same period.The WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines 
the methodology for calculating carbon 
emissions.
Scope 1 emissions  are those greenhouse 
gases resulting from fuel combustion from 
sources we own or operate—like vehicles 
or natural gas for heating. 
Scope 2 emissions  refer to those 
resulting from use of electricity. Renewable 
energy generates minimal Scope 2 
emissions, whereas burning coal, oil, or 
natural gas to produce electricity releases 
carbon dioxide and other greenhouse 
gases into the atmosphere. We’ve significantly reduced our emissions.
Our transition to renewable energy has reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 64 percent 
since 2011, preventing over 2.8 million metric tons of CO₂e from entering the atmosphere. 
That’s equivalent to taking more than 590,000 cars off the road for one year.14
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   14 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Leading suppliers to switch to renewable energy. 
Apple also takes responsibility for the carbon emissions that occur in our supply chain. 
Manufacturing makes up 74 percent of our carbon footprint. Most of those emissions come 
from the electricity used to make the parts in our products. So we’re helping our suppliers 
reduce their energy use and transition to new renewable energy sources. 
We announced Apple’s Supplier Clean Energy Program in 2015, and we’ve seen enormous 
growth in just three years. In 2018, Apple and our suppliers invested in, or procured from, 
1.9 gigawatts of operational clean energy that collectively generated 4.1 billion kWh. This clean 
energy generation avoided about 3.5 million metric tons of CO₂e—roughly equivalent to the 
electricity needed to power over 600,000 homes in the U.S. for a year.144  GW
By 2020, Apple and our suppliers will 
generate or procure at least 4 gigawatts 
of clean energy in our supply chain. As of 
April 2019, we already have commitments 
far exceeding our goal.
0 1 2April 2019April 2018April 2017 Goal: 4 GW by 2020
3 4 5 6
Operational (GW) Committed (GW)Progress toward 4 gigawatts
To ensure our program achieves the greatest positive impact, we have stringent social and environmental 
standards for supplier clean energy projects. The data above reflects only those projects that meet our 
strict standards and includes only clean energy generated or sourced since Apple’s engagement.
Apple’s role. 
Apple supports supplier transitions to clean energy. We work with them to advocate for policy 
change in key markets. We connect suppliers with high-quality clean energy projects and 
developers. And we educate them on how they can take full advantage of the benefits of  
clean energy.
Demonstrating leadership.
The transition to renewable energy can be highly complex. It often requires complicated deal 
structures across many regions, each with their own statutory and regulatory requirements.  
We gained invaluable experience by meeting our own 100 percent renewable energy goal in  
43 countries, and we’re using that expertise to help develop nearly 500 megawatts of solar and 
wind projects in China and Japan. These projects are addressing upstream emissions in our 
supply chain as well as demonstrating our commitment to the Supplier Clean Energy Program. $300  Million
Apple recently launched the China Clean 
Energy Fund, a first-of-its-kind investment 
fund in China to connect suppliers with 
renewable energy sources. Initially,  
10 suppliers and Apple will jointly  
invest nearly $300 million over the  
next four years. 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   15 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
•  Advanced International 
Multitech
• Arkema
• AT&S
• Bemis Associates
•  Biel Crystal (HK) 
Manufactory Ltd.
• BOE
•  Catcher Technology
• Compal Electronics
• Corning Incorporated
•  COSMO
•  DSM Engineering Plastics
• ECCO Leather
• Fastway Creation
• Finisar•  Goertek
• Golden Arrow
• H.B. Fuller
•  Hon Hai Precision 
Industry
•  Ibiden
• Jabil
• LEALEA Enterprise
•  Lens Technology
• Lishen
• Luxshare-ICT
•  Mega Precision 
•  Nidec
•  Pegatron
• Primax Group
• Qorvo• Quadrant
•  Quanta Computer
• RRD
• RyPax 
•  SanHuan
•  SDK
•  Solvay 
• STMicroelectronics
•  Sunway Communication
• Sunwoda Electronics
•  Taiyo Ink Mfg. Co.
• tesa SE
• TSMC
• Wistron
• YutoSupplier Progress Report
For more information on how 
our suppliers are fulfilling their 
renewable energy commitments,  
download the Program Update (PDF)“The Supplier Clean Energy Program is at the center of 
Apple’s commitment to making world-class products 
with greener manufacturing. Our suppliers are taking 
significant actions to join us in this work, and we look 
forward to seeing more bold pledges as we continue to 
address our environmental impact.” 
 
 Jeff Williams  
Apple’s Chief Operating OfficerEducating partners.
We share our learnings with our supplier partners and help them plot their transition to 
renewable energy. In 2017 , Apple developed the Clean Energy Portal, an online platform to 
help suppliers identify commercially viable renewable energy solutions in regions around the 
world. We continue to add new content, including policy guidance and financial analysis tools, 
intended to make adoption of clean energy in key markets even easier. Over 100 suppliers have 
registered for the site. 
Advocating for strong policy.
Clean energy technology offers tremendous benefits to our suppliers, to electricity grids, 
and to countries. So we actively support policies that create cost-effective renewable 
energy markets, and we work closely with suppliers to engage local, regional, and national 
governments. This encourages the development of policies that support scalable renewable 
energy solutions. 
Supplier progress.
Partners across our supply chain are installing or investing in sizable solar projects and 
purchasing clean energy directly from renewable projects or from their utility. As of April 2019, 
44 manufacturing partners in 16 countries have committed to 100 percent renewable energy 
for Apple production:
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   16 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Renewable energy projects
   
   Project size• Apple    • Supplier         Utility Clean Energy Programs
   
   • 0–20 MW      • 21–100 MW     • 101+ MWUnited St ates ChinaWorldwideApple and supplier-created long-term renewable energy projects.
To reduce our carbon emissions, Apple and our suppliers are generating and procuring renewable energy. The maps below represents long-term 
commitments to new renewable energy projects supporting 66 percent of Apple facilities, our suppliers, and cleaner grids around the world.*
To reduce our own electricity footprint (Scope 2 emissions), Apple currently has 28 operational renewable energy projects across nine countries on four continents, 
totaling 629 megawatts of generation capacity. And we have 15 more projects under construction. Once they’re built, we’ll have over 1.5 gigawatts of clean renewable 
energy generation spread across 12 countries and five continents. For some of our European loads, we procure electricity from utilities that only supply 100 percent 
renewable energy, and from our two renewable energy projects in Denmark.
To address emissions from manufacturing products, Apple and our suppliers have invested in or procured from 1.9 gigawatts of grid-connected projects, with another 
3.3 gigawatts in development. These projects apply a mix of clean energy technology including wind (67 percent) and solar (23 percent).
*  The map does not include REC and Guarantee of Origin purchases, certain utility clean energy programs, short-term contracts, and projects that are not yet sited.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   17 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Low-Carbon Design 
Lowering emissions through 
product design.
We design our products with great care to reduce their carbon footprint. We think about how to 
make them powerful while using as little energy as possible. We use materials efficiently, and 
we source from materials that have a low-carbon profile.
Designing our products to use less energy. 
Energy efficient products not only maximize battery life, but they’re better for the environment, 
too. We establish aggressive efficiency targets early in the design phase, and we consistently 
outperform ENERGY STAR, which sets the standard across commercial products in the U.S. 
In the last 10 years, we’ve decreased average product energy use by 70 percent across all 
Apple’s major product lines.4 For example, the 11-inch iPad Pro introduced in fall 2018 is  
69 percent more efficient than the ENERGY STAR standard. MacBook Air with Retina display 
consumes three times less power in sleep mode than the previous-generation MacBook Air. 
When you multiply these reductions by all the Apple devices in the world, the impact on our 
carbon footprint really adds up.
69 %
The 11-inch iPad Pro models are more than 
69 percent more efficient than the ENERGY 
STAR standard.
40 %
iMac Pro consumes 40 percent less power 
during sleep and off mode—the result of 
an innovation in power supply design.15
3X
MacBook Air with Retina display consumes 
three times less power in sleep than the 
previous-generation MacBook Air.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   18 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Lowering impact by design.
Our carbon footprint tells us which components are carbon intensive, so we know where to 
focus our efforts. We reduce the amount of material we need to make certain components 
by changing the design and re-engineering manufacturing processes. And by sourcing from 
recycled or renewable materials, we can often further decrease the carbon emissions from 
certain components.
Integrated circuits, or chips, make up a large portion of our manufacturing carbon footprint. 
Turning a silicon wafer into an integrated circuit is an energy-intensive process. So we seek  
out ways to reduce the amount of silicon used in chips, while maximizing their performance. 
The A11 and A12 chips used in iPhone 8, X, XS, XS Max, and XR allow more processing power  
to be packed into smaller silicon dies, which reduced Apple’s 2018 carbon footprint by  
160,000 metric tons. 
The carbon footprint of aluminum enclosures of MacBook computers has been steadily 
decreasing since 2015—for some products, it’s over six times less. We’ve done this by 
sourcing aluminum from hydro-powered smelters, improving the material efficiency of 
manufacturing processes, and increasing recycled content in our products. And by using  
100 percent recycled aluminum for the enclosure of the new MacBook Air with Retina display, 
we cut the product’s carbon footprint in half.  
Paving the way 
for carbon-free 
aluminum smelting
The world’s first aluminum produced through a 
carbon-free smelting process.Aluminum is a key material in many of Apple’s products, and, for more than 130 years, it’s 
been produced through a carbon-intensive process. Through a partnership with aluminum 
manufacturers Alcoa Corporation and Rio Tinto Aluminum, announced in May 2018, that’s 
changing. The joint venture between Alcoa and Rio Tinto will commercialize patented 
technology that eliminates direct greenhouse gas emissions from the traditional smelting 
process, a key step in aluminum production. This is a revolutionary advancement in the 
manufacturing of one of the world’s most widely used metals.
As part of Apple’s commitment to reducing the environmental impact of its products through 
innovation, the company helped accelerate the development of this technology. And Apple has 
partnered with both aluminum companies, and the governments of Canada and Quebec, to 
collectively invest a combined $144 million to future research and development.
“ Apple is committed to advancing technologies that are 
good for the planet and help protect it for generations 
to come. We are proud to be part of this ambitious new 
project, and look forward to one day being able to use 
aluminum produced without direct greenhouse gas 
emissions in the manufacturing of our products.”
 
 Tim Cook  
Apple’s CEO
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   19 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Energy Efficiency 
The cleanest energy is the 
energy you never use.
Even as we’re aggressively transitioning to renewable energy at our corporate 
facilities and in our supply chain, we prioritize energy efficiency. When we use less 
energy, we have less to procure from clean sources. 
To increase energy efficiency at our Apple’s offices, data centers, and retail stores, 
we start with designing buildings to optimize energy use. For existing buildings at 
our facilities and in our supply chain, we conduct energy efficiency audits to identify 
system improvements that could reduce energy use.
A more energy efficient Apple.
In 2018, we have continued to expand our energy efficiency programs to data 
centers, retail stores, offices, and R&D facilities located around the world. This past 
year, we have opened new buildings on Apple campuses in Cork, Ireland; Hyderabad, 
India; and Shenzhen, China. Each of these buildings exemplifies Apple’s commitment 
to energy efficiency with measures such as efficient HVAC systems with optimized air 
distribution, heat recovery, and radiant cooling; rooftop solar thermal; and occupancy 
controlled efficient lighting throughout. 
We also implemented a program within the past year to significantly reduce the 
energy consumption of new retail stores worldwide. We’re creating energy models 
during the design process to benchmark energy use and using those models to 
evaluate specific efficiency measures. The result is energy savings of approximately 
10 to 30 percent, thanks to more thoughtful design and selection of building envelope 
components, lighting, and HVAC systems, as well as controlling all of these systems 
as efficiently as possible.
In fiscal year 2018, we reduced our energy use by an additional 42 million kWh and 
150,000 therms—a significant increase in energy savings compared to last year, due 
to the expansion of our program. Combined with ongoing energy savings from past 
years, we are now cumulatively saving over 113 million kWh of electricity and  
2.5 million therms of natural gas per year, which corresponds to avoiding 43,199 
metric tons of CO2e from entering the atmosphere.8  million sq. ft. 
In fiscal year 2018, we implemented  
energy efficiency measures in more than  
8 million square feet of Apple facilities,  
with a combined annual electricity use  
of over 350 million kWh—resulting in  
an average energy savings of about  
12 percent. In the past two years, we have  
made energy efficiency improvements  
to 17 million square feet.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   20 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
A more energy efficient supply chain.
In 2015, we started engaging directly with suppliers to help them reduce their energy use.  
We aim to educate them about energy efficiency, identify energy efficiency project 
opportunities, and manage those projects to completion. We prioritize facilities with the highest 
energy use and potential for improvement. Then we conduct energy audits and train suppliers 
to uncover opportunities for energy efficiency—like replacing outdated or inefficient heating, 
cooling, and lighting systems; repairing compressed air leaks; and recovering waste heat.  
The assessments provide suppliers with a cost-benefit analysis for implementing energy 
efficiency improvements.
Since the inception of this program in 2015, we have engaged 59 suppliers at 85 facilities. In 
2018, our program implemented energy efficiency measures that prevented 466,000 metric 
tons of CO₂e from entering the atmosphere.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   21 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Daisy, Apple’s line of disassembly robots, 
can now disassemble 15 models of iPhone, 
recovering more of the important materials 
stored inside.
Putting the 
planet’s limited 
materials to good 
use. And reuse. Resources
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report  22 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherResources
24  Our Approach
25  Materials
36  Zero Waste
37  Water StewardshipWe’re on a mission to one day use only recycled and renewable materials in our products and 
packaging, and to eventually eliminate our reliance on mining altogether.16 We’re reducing the 
amount of water we use and waste we produce to make our products. And after our devices have 
enjoyed long lives, we look to them as a resource for the future. 
Daisy expansion
We updated Daisy to disassemble  
six more models of iPhone for  
a total of 15.Plastic reduction
We reduced plastic use in our 
packaging by 48% in three years. 
Material recovery lab
We’re partnering with industry  
experts and academia to further 
expand innovation around recycling 
and disassembly.
Recycled cobalt
We’re starting to use recycled 
cobalt—sourced from iPhone batteries 
recovered from Daisy and scrap  
from select supplier sites—in the 
batteries of new products. 
Recycled plastic
We introduced 82 components with an 
average of 38% recycled plastic across 
products released just this year.Recycled tin
We expanded, to 11 products, our use 
of 100% recycled tin in the solder on 
main logic boards.
Recycled aluminum
We launched our 2018 MacBook Air 
and Mac mini with 100% recycled 
aluminum enclosures, cutting the 
carbon footprint of each product nearly 
in half.
Product take-back
We refurbished more than 7.8 million 
devices and recycled more than 
48,000 metric tons of e-waste  
this year.Highlights
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   23 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Our approach to resources
Zero waste 
Eliminate waste sent to 
landfill at manufacturing 
facilities as well as 
corporate offices, data 
centers, and retail stores Water stewardship  
Reduce freshwater use, 
improve the quality of 
water we discharge, and 
demonstrate leadership 
by protecting shared 
water resourcesMaterials  
Transition to recycled 
or renewable materials 
in our products and 
maximize material 
efficiency, product 
longevity, and recoveryOur Approach
Making the most of limited resources.
Many resources are finite, and even those that are bio-based need to be managed in a  
way that makes them renewable. Whether it’s materials in our products or packaging,  
waste generated at our own facilities and in our supply chain, or water that we use to  
operate our buildings, deliver services, and  make products, our commitment remains the 
same: to protect and conserve these precious resources.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   24 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Materials
More recycled material inside and out.
Since we announced, in 2017, our ambitious goal to one day make our products using only 
recycled and renewable materials, we’ve made notable progress—especially when it comes 
to materials like aluminum, cobalt, tin, paper, and plastics. We make the most of materials by 
reducing waste and creating long-lasting products. And when our customers return products 
through Apple Trade In, we make sure the materials in those devices are used again and again.
Our strategy is to create circular supply chains and reduce our impact on the planet’s 
resources by: 
•  Designing and building products and packaging with recycled and renewable materials, 
and using materials more efficiently. 
•  Making long-lasting products by designing highly durable hardware, creating a broad 
network of repair providers, and ensuring software compatibility with older models. 
•  Collecting products through Apple Trade In to extend their life or recover their materials.
How we define a circular supply chain
Renewable materials market
Source Contribute
Recycled materials market 
Create and
protectCollect Make Use Recover
Creating a circular supply chain
Reaching our goal means focusing on three key aspects of our supply chain: 
1) Source strategically and make efficiently: Use recycled and renewable materials while manufacturing 
products efficiently to minimize use of materials. 
2) Use for a long time: Design products to be durable, so they can have long lives.
3) Contribute: Ensure materials go back into the market for Apple or others to use.We’re focusing our initial efforts  
on the following materials: 
• Aluminum
• Cobalt 
• Copper
• Glass
• Gold
• Lithium
• Paper
• Plastics•  Rare earth   
 elements
• Steel
• Tantalum 
• Tin
• Tungsten
• Zinc
For more information on how we  
prioritized these materials, read our  
paper on  Material Impact Profiles (PDF)
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   25 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Sourcing recycled and renewable materials. 
We aim to end our reliance on mining. That’s why we are transitioning to recycled16 and 
renewable materials, and maximizing material efficiency, all while maintaining the exceptional 
quality and finish of our final products.
With such a broad ambition, we needed a robust, data-driven way to determine where to start. 
So we assessed 45 elements and raw materials based on their environmental, social, and 
supply impacts. The resulting Material Impact Profiles helped us identify a short list of materials 
on which to focus first. And we continue to use these profiles to determine which materials to 
tackle next.
Each material requires a different solution. For some, like rare earth elements, recycled 
material is not widely available. So simply understanding the barriers to recovery requires 
significant exploration, and the learning represents meaningful progress. For other materials, 
like tin, recycled material markets are more robust. So we piloted uses of recycled tin in select 
applications and brought them to scale. Throughout these explorations and across many 
materials, we’ve deepened our relationships with downstream recyclers. And we’ve partnered 
with suppliers further upstream to use fewer materials and find alternative, recycled sources.
Supplier responsibility
We hold ourselves and our suppliers to 
the highest standards when it comes to 
human rights, environmental protection, 
and health and safety practices in our 
supply chain—including for sourcing  
of materials.  Learn more >
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   26 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Aluminum
To use 100 percent recycled aluminum, we had to invent a whole new kind. Standard recycled 
aluminum accumulates impurities each time it’s recycled. So we engineered an alloy that can 
accommodate scrap sources of aluminum and delivers the same strength, durability, and 
flawless finish. We use sophisticated computational models to identify an alloy chemistry that 
can withstand a countless number of recycling loops. Our own products and processes are a 
valuable source of aluminum scrap for our custom alloy, including iPhone enclosures recovered 
by Daisy. In fall 2018, we introduced MacBook Air and Mac mini models with  
100 percent recycled aluminum enclosures. And use of recycled materials helped cut the 
carbon footprint of each product nearly in half. In 2019, these efforts will allow us to avoid 
mining more than 900,000 metric tons of aluminum-bearing bauxite.
Cobalt17
We use cobalt primarily in batteries. A limited supply of recycled cobalt is available on the 
market for use in batteries like ours, not because recyclers lack the ability to recover cobalt, 
but because many recyclers don’t have enough scrap sources, like batteries. So we set out 
to find new sources of scrap for our recyclers, starting with our own supply chain. We began 
sending iPhone batteries recovered from Daisy, Apple’s iPhone disassembly robot, to our 
upstream recycler in Apple’s battery supply chain. And after a successful pilot program, select 
battery and final assembly suppliers now send Apple’s battery scrap to our recycler upstream. 
Recycled cobalt from both scrap sources is being recycled into the batteries of new Apple 
products—a true circular supply chain.
Copper
As a highly conductive metal, copper is used to make our printed circuit boards, cables, and 
connectors. We’re engaging with our suppliers to investigate new methods to manufacture  
our printed circuit boards in a way that uses less copper. For the copper we do use, we are 
moving to recycled sources. We are currently certifying the recycled copper content in the 
printed circuit boards of select iPhone models and estimate that the recycled copper used for 
these products represents over 60,000 metric tons of mined ore. To increase our contribution to 
recycled material streams, Daisy now liberates seven different components from which copper 
can be recovered, including the main logic board and the camera. And we’re directing these 
components to recyclers and smelters that can recover copper at high rates.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   27 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Glass
For glass, we’re focused on material efficiency and recovery. We’re working with our cover 
glass suppliers to ensure that all glass scrap generated during the manufacturing process is 
recycled at the highest level possible. Glass is incredibly sensitive to impurities and changes in 
composition—even the production of new devices introduces impurities—so maintaining the 
quality is essential for recycling glass.
Gold18
Gold is already recovered at high rates due to its value. We’re continuing to identify ways to 
reduce the amount of gold we use in the plating of components like our printed circuit boards. 
In iPhone XS, for example, gold represents less than 0.01 percent of the overall product mass. 
We’re working within the complex gold supply chain in order to increase the use of certified 
recycled gold.
Paper
We’ve successfully created a closed-loop, circular supply chain for paper. For the second year 
in a row, 100 percent of the wood fiber in our packaging was either from recycled sources or 
from responsibly managed forests or controlled wood sources. And to ensure we’re not taking 
away from the world’s supply of responsibly sourced paper, for the third year in a row, we are 
protecting or creating enough sustainably managed forests to cover all the wood fiber we use 
in our packaging.
Plastics
We’ve first focused on using less plastic through material efficiency. For example, we  
re-designed the way plastic was injected into the mold of a high-volume part in iPhone XS and 
iPhone XR, cutting the scrap produced by one-third. For the plastic we do use, we’re looking 
for renewable or recycled alternatives to fossil fuel-based plastics. However, we use vast 
numbers of distinct grades of plastic, each designed to meet specific requirements. We are 
systematically exploring and qualifying recycled and renewable alternatives for each grade,  
so that whatever type of plastic a product needs, we will have a recycled or renewable option. 
So far, we’ve identified recycled alternatives for 24 different grades of plastic, allowing us to 
use an average of 38 percent recycled plastic across 82 components for products released 
this year. In our packaging, we’re working to eliminate the need for plastics altogether, and we 
have reduced plastic in our product packaging almost by half in three years.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   28 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Rare earth elements
Elements like neodymium, praseodymium, and dysprosium are used in magnets for audio 
applications, in cameras, and in haptics technology. Traditional recyclers don’t recover 
these rare earth elements, because they are used in small quantities and technology has not 
advanced sufficiently to recover them. However, Daisy recovers the small components that 
contain rare earth elements from iPhone. By consolidating these sources, we’re creating an 
opportunity for new technology to efficiently recover these materials.
Steel
Our primary use of stainless steel is in the enclosure of iPhone XS and iPhone XS Max, and 
in some Apple Watch models. We’re working with our suppliers to increase and certify the 
recycled content in the stainless steel we source. And we’ve updated Daisy to recover the steel 
from iPhone enclosures and bands, which we then send to recyclers who are able to recover 
this highly recyclable material.
Tin18
A market supply of recycled tin exists, but we need to make sure it meets our quality standards. 
In 2017, we proved we could use 100 percent recycled tin for the solder on the main logic 
board—where the majority of tin is found—of iPhone 6s. We’re now specifying 100 percent 
recycled tin for the solder of the main logic boards of seven subsequent iPhone models plus 
the newly released MacBook Air with Retina display, iPad Air, and iPad mini. Using recycled tin 
in Apple devices will prevent us from mining almost 29,000 metric tons of tin ore in 2019. But 
we want to recover as much tin as we’re using—and make sure the tin is recycled and put back 
into the world’s supply. Unfortunately, tin is not recovered by all electronics recyclers. So we’re 
prioritizing recyclers that recover tin, in addition to copper and precious metals, from the main 
logic boards and camera modules retrieved by Daisy. 
Tungsten18
Traditional recyclers shred products to quickly break them down. Though shredding makes 
separation easier, it can cause the recycler to lose many materials, like tungsten. That’s why 
we designed Daisy as an alternative to whole unit shredding. Daisy is able to separate out the 
Taptic Engine, which we send to speciality recyclers that recover tungsten from it. We’re also 
working with our suppliers to certify the use of recycled tungsten in our products.
Lithium, tantalum,18 and zinc
As we’ve advanced in our work to create circular supply chains, we’ve expanded our program 
to include other materials in our products, using the Material Impact Profiles to guide us. We 
recently added lithium, tantalum, and zinc. And we’ve already begun exploring new recycled 
sources and prioritizing recyclers that can recover these key materials.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   29 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Built to last as long as humanly possible.
You count on your device day after day. So we design our products with durable materials, 
support them with ongoing OS updates, and make them easy to get repaired if anything happens. 
Because the longer a device is in use, the better use we make of the Earth’s resources.
Durable by design.
We design our products for durability. For example, we built iPhone XS to meet the IP68 
international standard for dust and water resistance, which means the devices can withstand 
being submerged to a depth of 2 meters for up to 30 minutes. And we prove that recycled and 
renewable materials can also meet our standards. For example, the solder in the main logic board 
of iPhone is made with 100 percent recycled tin that performs every bit as well as newly mined tin.
In our Reliability Testing Lab, we amplify real-world conditions to enhance the durability of our 
designs. We test your device’s ability to withstand mechanical stresses, such as a sudden impact 
with a hard surface. In climate tests, we pit our devices against extreme heat and cold, dry and 
humid conditions, and intense sun exposure. Our chemical sensitivity tests evaluate the ability 
of devices to stand up to accidental spills like coffee, soda, sunscreen, or ketchup. We often go 
beyond international standards, and sometimes even create our own.
With these tests, we intentionally push our products beyond their limits so we can study 
what happens. We then use state-of-the-art equipment, such as CT scanners and electron 
microscopes, to thoroughly understand impacts to the microstructure. This information flows 
back to our designers and engineers to enable further durability improvements. We repeat 
this cycle through our product development process until our products meet our rigorous 
performance standards.
iOS updates your older device with new capabilities.
iOS has the best software update mechanism in the industry, bringing updates to more 
devices than anyone else. We provide this support so customers and developers alike can take 
advantage of the latest features, privacy and security updates, and other key improvements—
enabling our customers to use devices longer. 
iPhone XS meets the IP68 international 
standard for dust and water resistance. 
That means it can withstand being 
submerged to a depth of 2 meters for 
up to 30 minutes.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   30 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
iOS 12 was released in 2018 but is optimized for devices as far back as 2013, the largest base of 
support ever for an iOS release. It makes devices faster and more responsive; for example, iOS 12 
enables an up to 70 percent faster camera swipe, up to 50 percent faster keyboard display, and 
up to two times faster app launch on the iPhone 6 Plus.19 And many past generations of iPhone or 
iPad can take advantage of the latest features like Group FaceTime and Screen Time. Out of all 
devices using iOS—including those released many years ago—80 percent are using iOS 12.
Better use of materials through repair.
When devices are repaired rather than replaced, we make better use of the materials in them. 
And we know even the most dependable products sometimes need service. That’s why we offer 
a network of more than 5,000 Apple Store locations and Apple Authorized Service Providers 
worldwide to provide safe, high-quality repairs. We offer battery replacement for all of our 
products—and we make sure the replaced batteries are recycled responsibly. Customers can 
access these repair locations in person or by mail. And we are continuing to expand our services.
To make sure that repairs are performed safely, securely, and to the highest quality, we 
continuously train and certify service channel personnel, with over 265,000 active trained 
personnel. Our providers perform diagnostics and calibrations to target repairs precisely, 
avoiding unnecessary service and replacements of parts. When new parts are needed, only 
genuine Apple parts are used, so repaired devices work exactly the way they should. And all 
Apple-certified repairs are backed by Apple.
We continue to expand access to high-quality and convenient repair options for our 
customers. Our new method for optimizing iPhone screen repairs has allowed thousands 
more independent shops to start offering this repair service.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   31 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
• Apple Authorized Service Providers     • Retail stores
   
   Repair locations 
We offer a network of more 
than 5,000 retail stores and 
Apple Authorized Service 
Providers worldwide to repair 
devices so that they can be 
used longer.Trade it in. Help the planet out.
Even when you’re done with your device, chances are it still has more to give to the world. 
Apple Trade In is a simple way to exchange your old device for credit so that it can be reused  
by a new owner. If it isn’t eligible for credit, we’ll recycle it free of charge.20 Either way, your  
trade-in helps reduce the amount of materials that need to be mined from the Earth. That’s a 
trade-off that works for everybody.
Refurbishing for a new life. 
Our devices are built to last. That’s why they often go on to a second or even third user. 
Through Apple Trade In, customers in 27 countries can trade in their devices either online or 
in-store. For products that still have more to give, customers can receive an Apple Store Gift 
Card or a refund on their purchase. These devices are repaired when necessary and sent to 
their next owner. If a product is at the end of its life, we’ll recycle it for free. We also collect and 
refurbish used devices through our iPhone Upgrade Program, AppleCare, and, inside Apple, 
our Hardware Reuse Program for employees. Altogether, we directed 7,860,000 devices to 
new users in fiscal year 2018. Keeping these devices in use rather than needing to make new 
products to serve those customers resulted in tangible material and carbon emissions savings.
Recycling for material recovery. 
After sourcing responsibly and creating long-lasting products, we focus next on recovering 
materials. We participate in and offer product collection and recycling programs in 99 percent 
of the countries  in which we sell products.21 These programs recycle our products and other 
electronics, all for free. In fiscal year 2018, we helped divert more than 48,000 metric tons of 
electronic waste from landfills. And we continue to make these programs more accessible. 
To truly end our reliance on mining, we also need to better capture the materials inside 
the products we recover. We created our disassembly robot, Daisy, to remove and sort 
components, so we can recover more materials at a higher quality than traditional recyclers 
can. This year, we updated Daisy to disassemble six additional iPhone models—15 models 
in total—from iPhone 5 to iPhone XS. Even while identifying models in real-time and 
disassembling devices with greater variation, Daisy can take apart 200 iPhone devices per 
hour. In the U.S. and the Netherlands, Daisy is now processing end-of-life iPhone models 
returned to us through Apple Trade In and AppleCare.
Some of the recovered materials are already heading back into our supply chain for new 
products. Most of the aluminum recovered from iPhone, for example, became part of the  
100 percent recycled aluminum enclosure of MacBook Air. And cobalt we recovered from the 
iPhone battery is used to make new Apple batteries. Because of our efforts to keep harmful 
substances out of our products, these materials are safer to recover and reuse. 
For some materials, however, efficient recycling technologies don’t exist. We don’t believe 
technology should be a barrier to conserving the Earth’s resources. That’s why we created our 
new Material Recovery Lab in Texas. The lab will focus on three key areas: optimizing existing 
recycling practices, improving the ability to disassemble devices, and advancing research and 
development of the next generation of recycling technologies. We aim to benefit the broader 
recycling industry through this research. After all, the more material that gets reused, the less 
that needs to be mined from the Earth.Apple Trade In
Trade in your device for credit toward a 
new one, or recycle it responsibly for free.
We work closely with our recycling 
partners to help make sure:
• Privacy is protected.
• Devices are recycled safely and 
responsibly.
• Applicable regulations are followed.
See how it works >
In spring 2019, we are launching a 
program with Best Buy in the U.S. and 
KPN in the Netherlands so that eligible 
iPhones will be sent to our disassembly 
robot Daisy. 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   32 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Components and materials Daisy recovers
Old Enclosures (iPhone 7 and earlier)  
Aluminum
SteelNew Enclosures (iPhone 8 and later)**
Aluminum 
Copper
Steel
Taptic Engine  
Tungsten
Rare earth elements
Steel
Copper
Receiver
Steel
Copper
Rare earth elements
Speaker
Steel
Copper
Rare earth elementsMain Logic Board 
Tin
Gold
Copper
Silver
Rear Camera
Copper
Tin
Gold
Rare earth elements
*  These quantities are based on an estimated product mix for what Daisy is likely to disassemble in the upcoming year, reflecting additional iPhone models. Recovery quantities do not reflect potential 
losses that may occur during the recycling process.
** Includes a support plate, backglass, and housing band.
Dock Flex
Tin
Gold
Copper
Wireless 
Charging 
Coil 
Gold
Copper
Battery 
Cobalt
Front Camera and Face ID 
Copper
Tin
Gold
SteelFor every 100,000 iPhone devices,  
Daisy has the potential to recover:*
Aluminum  1,500 kg
Gold  1.1 kg
Silver  6.3 kg
Rare earth elements  32 kg
Tungsten  83 kg
Copper  1,000 kg
Tin 29 kg
Cobalt  790 kg
Steel  1,400 kg
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   33 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
To improve our packaging, we are working to eliminate plastics, increase recycled content, and 
reduce our packaging overall. The results are more beautiful than ever—for our packaging and 
for the planet. 
Cutting down on plastic. 
In three years, we’ve reduced our plastic use in U.S. product packaging by 48 percent. Starting 
with iPhone 7 and iPad Pro, we changed the plastic tray in the packaging to an all molded fiber 
alternative. This switch allowed us to also create iPhone XS and XR, iMac Pro, MacBook Air, 
iPad mini, and iPad Pro with majority-fiber packaging. And as of March 2019, we’ve transitioned 
to 100 percent fiber retail bags in all retail stores. These new bags even have a knitted paper 
handle and contain 80 percent recycled fiber.
Using recycled and responsible sources. 
We aim to maximize the use of recycled paper in our packaging. In fiscal year 2018 we used 
58 percent recycled paper, on average. When virgin paper is needed, we require our suppliers 
to source wood fiber from responsibly managed forests or Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
controlled wood sources.22 For the second year in a row, all of our packaging suppliers sourced 
their paper responsibly. And we conduct regular audits to ensure their claims. 
Outside of packaging, less than 1 percent of our total fiber use is for our corporate offices—of 
which approximately 85 percent came from recycled or responsible sources in 2018. Building a circular 
fiber packaging 
supply chain
Packaging fiber and plastic footprint* (metric tons)
Plastic Virgin fiber** Recycled fiber**171,500 2015
165,000 2016
169,000 2017
187,0002018
53,000
31%81,500
48%37,000
21%
50,000
30%81,000
49%34,000
21%
51,000
30%94,000
56%24,000
14%
60,000
32%108,000
58%19,000
10%
* The packaging fiber and plastic footprint includes retail and shipping boxes.
** Beginning in FY18, we considered bagasse to be virgin fiber, instead of recycled fiber.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   34 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Protecting responsibly managed forests. 
We don’t just specify that all of our virgin fiber be sourced responsibly, we also want to make 
sure we’re not diminishing the world’s supply of responsible paper. For the third consecutive 
year, production from the responsibly managed forests we’ve protected or helped to improve 
exceeded the amount of virgin fiber we used in our product packaging.23 
One year early, we achieved our 2020 goal of transitioning one million acres of forest across 
China to improved management. This is part of our five-year partnership with World Wildlife 
Fund, which is focused on three primary objectives: 
• Increase responsible management of working forests in China—by creating up to  
375,000 acres of FSC-certified forests. And improve the management of up to 640,000 
acres.
• Contribute to the improvement of China’s policy framework to encourage responsible 
forest management. 
• Help China establish long-term market incentives for responsibly sourced paper. 
In addition to improving the management of 1 million acres of forest directly, the project has the 
potential to influence millions more by supporting the development of the China Sustainable 
Plantation Management Guidelines. These guidelines, informed by our project and released 
by China’s National Forestry and Grassland Administration, have been selected by the national 
government for use in the National Reserve Forest Plan, which guides the management of more 
than 40 million acres of forest.
In the U.S., we continue to partner with The Conservation Fund (TCF) and support its innovative 
Working Forest Fund® model. Through this fund, TCF purchases threatened working forests, 
protects them into the future through conservation easements, then sells the protected forest 
to begin the process again. So far, we’ve protected 36,000 acres of forest in the Eastern United 
States that are now certified as sustainably managed. And when forests thrive, so do local 
communities and wildlife.
Our journey to responsible packaging
48 %↓
reduction in plastic use  
in 2018, compared to 201558 %
average recycled wood 
fiber content100 %
We are protecting or creating 
enough responsibly managed 
forests to cover all of the virgin 
paper we use in our packaging100 %
of wood fiber in our packaging 
comes from responsibly managed 
forests
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   35 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Zero Waste
Finding new ways to keep old 
materials out of landfills.
We’re working to reuse, recycle, compost, or when necessary, convert into energy all the waste 
created by our own facilities and in our supply chain. Reaching this goal requires collaboration 
among multiple Apple teams, local governments, and specialty recyclers, and we’ve already 
seen great success. 
A zero waste program for Apple facilities.
We’re currently pursuing an ambitious goal of Zero Waste to Landfill at our more than 450 
corporate facilities, our more than 500 retail stores, and our five data centers.24 Our first aim 
is to reduce the waste we generate by rethinking the materials we use—in areas from building 
renovations to food service. And for the waste we do create, we’re working to recover it to its 
highest and best use through robust composting, recycling, and reuse programs. 
In fiscal year 2018, we generated 74,000 metric tons of waste and diverted about 74 percent 
from landfill through recycling and composting, up 3 percentage points from fiscal year 2017. 
To reduce the waste we generate, we work with our upstream vendors to streamline materials 
used and select those designed with the environment in mind. For example, we set up new 
packaging standards for all of our data centers, eliminating unnecessary packaging and finding 
ways to reuse the packaging shipped. When we do create waste, we focus on managing it 
responsibly. In renovations across our hundreds of corporate facilities, nearly 85 percent of the 
furniture is recovered, repaired, and made available for reuse. And because lack of data is one 
of the biggest obstacles to managing waste well, we installed remote monitoring systems that 
allow us to identify problem areas and resolve them quickly and accurately. 
Across facilities that generate hazardous waste, Apple takes great strides to ensure it is 
managed responsibly. We complete regular audits of the Transportation, Storage, and 
Disposal Facilities (TSDFs) where hazardous waste is ultimately sent to be treated, recycled, 
or incinerated. Only facilities we audit are allowed to accept and treat the hazardous waste 
Apple generates. We take this commitment seriously—if any TSDF does not meet our strict 
standards for environment, health, safety, and waste management protocols, we send waste to 
an alternate, approved facility.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   36 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
A zero waste program for our suppliers.
In 2015, we launched a Zero Waste Program for suppliers, which provides them with onsite 
support to recycle and reuse materials. The aim is to divert 100 percent of waste from  
landfills. We provide tools and guidance, including the services of experts in sustainable  
waste management.
Initially we prioritized suppliers with the most significant waste impact: final assembly facilities 
where components from all over the world come together to be assembled into Apple 
products. Our goal was to help these facilities drastically reduce the waste they send to landfill. 
And in 2018, we achieved UL ’s Zero Waste to Landfill certification for all final assembly facilities 
across iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, AirPods, and HomePod.25 This includes the Apple-
operated final assembly site in Cork, Ireland, which was the first Apple facility to receive the 
designation from UL. 
We’ve since expanded our efforts further upstream in our supply chain to include sub-assembly 
suppliers. However, the deeper we go, the more complex the waste streams become. So we are 
looking for new technological innovations, exploring up-cycling techniques to reuse by-products, 
and even reassessing manufacturing processes.
In 2018, we diverted 375,000 metric tons of waste from landfills. And to date, we’ve engaged 
90 suppliers and diverted more than 1 million metric tons of waste—enough to cover more than 
4,000 soccer fields a meter deep.
Water Stewardship
Protecting Earth’s most  
precious resource.
Water supports all life on Earth. And while water itself is plentiful, only a small fraction is 
available to those who need it. The scarcity of freshwater continues to increase, a trend 
exacerbated by climate change. So we hold ourselves accountable for the water we use, 
whether at our corporate offices, data centers, distribution centers, and retail stores, or at our 
suppliers’ facilities around the globe.
How we’re tackling our water footprint.
Water is necessary to operate our corporate facilities, including for cooling at our data centers. 
At our manufacturing facilities, suppliers use water for processes like etching, cutting, cleaning, 
and cooling. So we work to conserve it and be smarter about the water we do use. We focus 
both on improving water use in our facilities and—through our Clean Water Program—helping 
our suppliers conserve water and prevent water pollution. And we are engaging communities 
where we operate and manufacture products to make sure shared water resources are 
protected and accessible. We’re proud of the progress we’ve made, but we know there’s still 
work to do.1 million metric tons
Through our supplier Zero Waste 
Program, we’ve diverted enough 
waste to cover more than 4,000 
soccer fields 1 meter deep.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   37 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
To continue to improve our water use by our facilities and our suppliers, we focus on:
•  Using water efficiently to reduce overall use.
•  Identifying alternative water sources, such as recycled and reclaimed water.
•  Discharging water responsibly to prevent pollution.
•  Expanding our water stewardship to keep watersheds healthy for all who rely on them.
Water resources are extremely local. That’s why we focus on areas where our efforts can have 
the largest positive impact. We map our global water use against water quality, quantity, and 
regulatory factors to understand which regions have an elevated risk. We then prioritize those 
locations based on how much water we‘re using. We continually update our risk assessment 
based on new data and better understanding of the regional environments in which we are 
operating. And when engaging with suppliers, we put a special emphasis on working with 
those with high water usage, the potential for poor discharge quality, and facilities in water-
stressed regions. Working with suppliers is key, as early assessments show that manufacturing 
represents the majority of our water footprint.26
Using water efficiently.
Water is essential to the work we do. However, we aim to minimize the water used by our 
facilities and our suppliers’ operations, especially in areas of elevated water risk. And by 
continuing to expand our reduction efforts, we aim to improve our footprint over time.
In fiscal year 2018, Apple used about 1.26 billion gallons of water directly, a 26 percent increase 
over the previous year. This increase was driven largely by growth in a few locations, and by 
increased visibility into temporary water use. These temporary uses accounted for 140 million 
gallons of water in 2018, and include things like dust control for new construction and the 
establishment of mature, drought-tolerant trees in landscaping.We mapped our global water use to 
different levels of water risk. As a result, 
we’re focused on three locations with 
elevated water risk—Maiden, North 
Carolina; Mesa, Arizona; and Santa 
Clara Valley, California—where  
52 percent of our total use occurs.
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
Freshwater use Recycled water use Temporary freshwater use0 300 600 900 1200 1500
Millions of gallonsWater use at Apple facilities
We track our corporate water use for our data centers, retail stores, and corporate offices.
Beginning in fiscal year 2017, our boundary expanded to include more than 150 million gallons of water used annually at distribution 
centers and co-located data centers.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   38 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Our water footprint shows us that we need to continue to reduce our water demand.  
This year, a number of different water efficiency efforts helped minimize our freshwater use.  
We designed our latest data centers buildings in Maiden, North Carolina; Reno, Nevada;  
Viborg, Denmark; and China to use 80 percent less water for cooling than at previous data 
centers. In our retail stores, our newly launched back-of-store, or “backstage,” design includes 
low-flow fixtures that save up to 30 percent more water compared with our previous design. 
And at our corporate offices in Santa Clara Valley, our landscape efficiency program continues 
to reduce our outdoor water use—by more than 15.3 million gallons per year—through turf 
replacement and irrigation system upgrades. Around the world, our pursuit of water efficient 
design is expected to save more than 90 million gallons of water per year.
Through our supplier Clean Water Program, we help those who make our products improve 
their water use by performing baseline assessments, providing technical support on water-
saving improvements, and monitoring progress. Our suppliers conserved 7 .6 billion gallons 
of water across 116 facilities in 2018, bringing the total cumulative savings to 21 billion gallons 
since 2013. These savings were achieved through diverse initiatives including installation of 
low-flow fixtures, use of meters to control consumption, and employee education. And since 
many of our suppliers also build components for other companies, we’re reducing the water 
footprint of non-Apple products, too.
Finding alternative sources. 
As we work to minimize our overall water use, we also look to alternative sources to help reduce 
freshwater withdrawals, including recycled water, reclaimed water, and harvested rainwater.
Across our facilities, use of recycled water worldwide grew from 24 million gallons to 63 million 
gallons in fiscal year 2018. This reflects recycled water use in two of our three largest  
co-located data centers as well as offices in Elk Grove, Singapore, and India. We have also 
made significant investments to bring recycled water to our campuses in Santa Clara Valley,  
an effort that will replace over 30 million gallons of potable freshwater a year. 
Captured rainwater represents another alternative source of water for our facilities. In 2018, 
we captured and reused 4 million gallons of rainwater for cooling, irrigation, and construction 
needs at our Maiden, North Carolina, data center, and at our corporate offices in Cork, Ireland, 
and Yokohama, Japan. And our newest retail location, Apple Champs-Élysées, features a 
rainwater collection system which can collect up to 1,800 gallons of water a day. This system 
will reduce potable freshwater use by 15 percent per year at the store. 
When we engage suppliers, we also focus on ways to reclaim and reuse water. We look for 
creative sources of water to reclaim, including condensation from centralized air conditioning. 
For water reuse, even simple solutions can be highly impactful. For example, we encourage  
the re-use of the water used to wash products in-between production stages. As they are 
rinsed, products are moved from tub to tub of water, and as they do so, both the device and 
water gets cleaner. Simply moving rinse water in the opposite direction of the devices as it  
gets dirtier, rather than dumping it, allows the same rinse water to be reused two to three  
times. With solutions both simple and complex, we’ve increased the average water reuse to  
39 percent across suppliers.5X
increase in total water 
savings from the Clean 
Water Program in two years
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   39 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Discharging water responsibly. 
Managing wastewater discharge is also an important way to conserve water resources in  
a watershed. 
At our Santa Clara Valley campus, we’re implementing an onsite wastewater treatment system 
that will treat approximately 550,000 gallons per year of water onsite and return it to the 
municipal wastewater system. And at our data centers in Prineville, Oregon, and Reno, Nevada, 
our teams have been deploying a mineral filter media that allows us to recapture more of the 
water we use in cooling, reducing water discharge by up to 30 percent. 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct includes standards for wastewater discharge quality, and we 
regularly audit for compliance with these high standards. Our Clean Water Program engagement 
goes beyond compliance to help our suppliers build world-class water management  
systems. We target supplier sites based on water discharge risk and launch intensive,  
multi-year engagements. We begin with a comprehensive assessment that leads to targeted 
improvements, including installation of improved infrastructure, use of cutting-edge wastewater 
treatment technologies, and the creation of systems for validating discharge. Throughout the 
program, we engage deeply to create cultural change and promote greater water literacy.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   40 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Water Treatment Manager at a 
Clean Water Program facility for 
packaging manufacturing, China.Pursuing water stewardship.
Water connects communities. It’s also essential for human health and thriving ecosystems. So 
we look beyond our own operations to restore water resources in critical regions and ensure 
that local communities have water access.
In Prineville, Oregon, we created a water supply solution to meet the needs of Apple’s local data 
center and the broader community for years to come. We partnered with the City of Prineville to 
build an aquifer storage and recovery system, which uses natural underground spaces to cost-
effectively store water throughout the year for use in peak demand months. With a storage 
capacity of up to 180 million gallons—significantly more than we use for our data center—the 
system also helps mitigate future climate-related risks of water shortages.
Apple and our suppliers have also partnered with the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS), a 
collaboration between businesses and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), in a program to 
support water management beyond the factory and into the community. We’ve launched a pilot 
project with five suppliers in the Kunshan region of China, an area with a cluster of electronics 
suppliers that is experiencing water-quality challenges. These five suppliers aim to meet the 
AWS global standards, which promote effective water management and safe water, sanitation, 
and hygiene (WASH) for local communities. Already, two Apple suppliers have received AWS 
certification, including the first Gold certification ever to be awarded in the electronics industry. 
And we plan to expand our supplier stewardship program to improve water quality at other sites 
like the Yangtze River Delta and the Pearl River Delta.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   41 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Championing 
green building 
design  Buildings are the embodiment of our commitment to conserve water and energy, reduce 
waste, and use renewable energy. We actively apply green building principles to all of our 
offices, data centers, and retail stores around the world. 
Wherever possible, we pursue green building certifications like U.S. Green Building Council’s 
LEED certification and the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment 
Methodology (BREEAM). Apple Park, our new headquarters in Cupertino, is on track to be 
the largest LEED Platinum-certified office building in North America. When we constructed 
our Hollyhill building at our campus in Cork, it was one of only six in Ireland to be awarded 
an “Excellent” rating by BREEAM. And our data center in Viborg, Denmark, is LEED Gold 
certified—as are buildings at our data centers in Reno, Nevada; Maiden, North Carolina; Mesa, 
Arizona; and Prineville, Oregon. 
At our retail stores, we also apply green building principles to reduce our demand on the 
environment, while providing healthier spaces for our customers to experience our products. 
When we renovated a historic building on the Avenue des Champs-Élysées for our new retail 
location, we installed environmental features like high-efficiency lighting systems, rainwater 
collection, and onsite PV panels, which are expected to earn the building a rating of “Very 
Good” from BREEAM. Our newly launched back-of-store design for retail locations reduces 
energy load by 40 percent and is made of recycled materials, including insulation made with  
80 percent post-consumer recycled denim. More than 50 stores have already been built 
with this design. We have also committed to sourcing only Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
certified materials for all tables, benches, and wood fixtures in all new retail stores—nearly  
150 locations and hundreds of tables in 2018 alone. FSC only certifies wood made from forests 
that protect water resources, promote biodiversity, and enhance the lives of workers and  
local communities.  12  million sq. ft.
We are constructing and 
certifying more than 12 million 
square feet of green building 
space worldwide.Apple Champs-Élysées is  
expected to receive a BREEAM 
“Very Good” green building 
rating. Environmental features 
include energy efficient 
lighting, a rainwater collection 
system, and responsibly 
sourced materials.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   42 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Making 
products as 
safe as they 
are sound. Smarter ChemistrySince 2017, 100 percent of supplier 
assembly sites have adopted safer cleaners 
and degreasers with our help.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report  43 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherSmarter 
Chemistry
45  Our Approach
46  Mapping and Engagement
46  Assessment and Management
48  Chemistry InnovationMaterials are what make products faster, tougher, and more beautiful. But they’re not all created 
equal. That’s why Apple applies our best innovation to choosing materials that are safe for the 
people who use our products, for the people who make and recycle them, and for our planet.
RSS updates
We updated the Apple Regulated  
Substances Specification to 
strengthen supplier requirements and 
restrictions on harmful substances.Safer cleaners and degreasers
All supplier final assembly sites have 
adopted safer cleaners and degreasers. 
Full Material Disclosure
We continued to expand our Full 
Material Disclosure (FMD) program, 
and we collect comprehensive 
chemical data for over 75% by mass of 
new iPhone, iPad, and Mac products.Chemicals management
In 2018, we graduated 50 supplier  
facilities from our supplier Chemicals 
Management Program.Highlights
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   44 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Our Approach
Better thinking means  
better chemistry.
We have led the industry in removing many harmful substances from our products, and we 
go to great lengths to make sure that what we take out stays out. Our approach begins with 
collecting comprehensive chemical composition information for the substances used to 
make our products as well as the process chemicals, like cleaners and degreasers, suppliers 
apply when making our products. We use this information to evaluate supplier compliance 
with the Apple Regulated Substances Specification (RSS) —our own set of global chemicals 
restrictions that goes beyond regulatory requirements and is based on best industry practices 
or toxicology properties. We go even further by using the chemical composition information 
we’ve collected in order to assess the hazard and risk of unregulated substances. And if we 
ever identify a substance that needs replacement, we innovate with our suppliers to find  
safer alternatives. 
Our approach to smarter chemistry
Innovation  
Transition to safer 
chemistries through 
chemical innovations, 
beyond what is required  Assessment and 
management  
Assess and manage 
chemicals for risks to 
human health  
and environmentMapping and 
engagement   
Create a comprehensive 
inventory of chemicals 
used by suppliers to 
make our products
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   45 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Mapping and Engagement
We’re exhaustively mapping 
materials in our products. 
Evaluating the chemicals in the tens of thousands of components used in our products is an 
enormous task, but it’s essential to our commitment to customer safety. It starts with creating 
an extensive inventory of chemicals used to make them. That means collecting information not 
just from our suppliers, but from their suppliers, too. We’re working closely with our partners 
to construct a detailed map of every chemical inside our materials, including many of the 
chemicals used to manufacture them.
We go beyond what’s required by law to eliminate harmful chemicals from our products. In 
2016, we launched the Full Material Disclosure (FMD) program, an ambitious initiative aimed at 
helping us more comprehensively understand the chemical composition of every substance in 
every part of our products. This can be challenging because it requires that suppliers disclose 
proprietary information. We overcome this by storing the data securely and limiting access to 
a select number of people within Apple who are responsible for toxicological assessments. We 
prioritize materials with the greatest risks, such as those used in high quantities or those with 
the greatest human exposure. We collect detailed chemical information for tens of thousands 
of components and over 75 percent of product mass for new iPhone, iPad, and Mac products. 
We won’t stop until we rigorously understand the chemistry of every material.  
In 2015, we went a step further by creating an inventory of chemicals that are used at supplier 
facilities but don’t reside in the products. We mapped the process chemicals used in our final 
assembly facilities and evaluated all control measures such as ventilation, personal protective 
equipment, and worker training programs. The mapping resulted in the further identification—
and continued replacement—of potentially harmful substances that required controls and 
personal protective equipment from cleaners at final assembly sites.
Assessment and Management
We evaluate chemicals for risks to 
your health, and the planet’s. 
 In 2002, we introduced the RSS, which identifies the harmful chemicals we limit or prohibit in 
our manufacturing processes and products. In 2006, we built our own Environmental Testing 
Lab, where our chemists look for any potentially harmful substances and test products to 
evaluate compliance with the RSS. Since the lab’s opening, we have expanded it to more than 
30 times its original size and have regularly updated it with state-of-the-art equipment—like 
an inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer, liquid and gas chromatography mass 
spectrometers, and a laser-induced breakdown spectrometer similar to the one used by NASA. 
We even manufacture artificial sweat to simulate human exposure and evaluate the safety of 
our materials that come into contact with skin.We screen our materials with 
comprehensive risk assessment 
tools, including GreenScreen®, 
which evaluates substances 
against 18 different hazards, 
including carcinogens, mutagens, 
and endocrine disruptors.GREENSCREEN®
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   46 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
With information collected from the environmental testing laboratory, and the FMD 
and chemical mapping programs, we can then generate comprehensive toxicology 
assessments. This includes GreenScreen®, which considers 18 criteria to help us 
understand the materials’ effects on people’s health and the environment. We also have in-
house, board-certified toxicologists who use lab testing and computer modeling to create 
toxicological profiles that previously didn’t exist—addressing a major challenge in this field. 
Only materials that pass our rigorous review process are accepted for our products.
We’re just as committed to the safety of the people who make our products. We require 
our suppliers to follow the standards set in our RSS. In 2014, we launched our Chemical 
Management Program to help suppliers develop a comprehensive approach to managing 
chemicals safely. The program, which has grown to 113 participating supplier facilities, 
enables our partners to shift to safer chemicals and improve general safety, awareness, 
and training. And to help drive toward safer chemicals, we map chemicals use and screen 
them using GreenScreen® to assess the safety of cleaners and degreasers used at 
supplier final assembly facilities.
At Apple’s onsite environmental 
testing lab, chemists assess 
products for harmful chemicals.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   47 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Chemistry Innovation
Inventing ways to replace bad 
substances with good ones.
We’re continually evaluating the materials used in our products and design to avoid harmful 
substances altogether. We seek to reduce and remove toxins, by developing new, safer chemistries. 
When there is not an existing alternative to a chemical we’ve determined harmful, we innovate. 
We work with our suppliers to develop custom chemistries made with safer substances. To find 
a replacement for PVC and phthalates, for example, we and our suppliers invested in four years 
of research and development to create power cords and headphone cables that had both the 
performance and chemistry that met Apple standards.27 This deep commitment to innovating on 
safer chemistries sets Apple apart from many others who still use PVC and phthalates in their cables.
We began to identify and phase out harmful substances in the late 1990s, beginning with PVC in our 
packaging, and moving on to the lead that was in our display glass and solder.28 Since then, we’ve 
also replaced mercury displays with energy efficient and mercury-free LEDs and OLEDs; eliminated 
arsenic from display glass;29 replaced brominated flame retardants from thousands of parts such as 
enclosures, cables, circuit boards, and connectors, using safer metal hydroxides and phosphorus 
compounds in their place;30 and eliminated beryllium-copper connectors and springs from all new 
product designs. 
We’re also focused on replacing harmful substances in manufacturing process chemicals to keep 
workers in our supply chain safe. We have long been engaging with our manufacturing partners 
to ensure safe working conditions. After analyzing the chemical composition of cleaners and 
degreasers used at supplier final assembly sites, we chose to go a step further and replace all 
identified hazardous chemicals with safer alternatives such as ethanol, isopropyl alcohol, glycerol, 
and water. In our first year of this Safer Cleaner Substitution program, we helped 18 sites replace 24 
problematic formulations.31 In addition, in 2018, we added n-Propyl Bromide (nPB) to our RSS list of 
banned process chemicals for cleaning and degreasing. These efforts seek to avoid use of harmful 
chemicals, which protects the people who make, use, and recycle our products and keeps pollutants 
out of the land, air, and water.100 % 
Since 2015, 100 percent 
of the process chemicals 
used at our supplier final 
assembly facilities complied 
with Apple’s Regulated 
Substances Specification.
We removed PVC and phthalates from all 
our power cords, headphones, and cables.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   48 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
*  Arsenic is present in minuscule quantities in some semiconductor devices. 
**  Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates with the exception of power cords in India, Thailand, and South Korea, where we continue to seek government approval for our PVC and 
phthalates replacement. 
Eliminated 
mercury
2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 2020Initial phase-out 
of PVC in product 
packagingPhased out lead 
from display 
glass and solder Eliminated 
brominated 
flame retardants
Replaced PVC and 
Phthalates with 
safer alternatives** Eliminated 
berylliumAll supplier final 
assembly sites adopted 
safer chemicals and 
degreasers
Introduced RSS
Environmental 
Testing Lab opened
First supplier 
audits
Launched 
supplier Chemical 
Management Program Process chemicals 
mapped at supplier 
final assembly sites10th Update  
to RSS
A timeline of smarter chemistry 
Our program initially moved beyond 
a strictly compliance focus in the 
late 1990s, when we started to 
phase out PVC from our packaging. 
The scope and depth of our work 
has significantly expanded since 
then, always remaining above 
what’s required by law.
Eliminated arsenic 
from display glass*
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   49 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Leading.  
And listening.Better Together
We partnered with Conservation International 
to protect a 27,000-acre mangrove forest in 
Colombia and develop a new methodology for 
quantifying the “blue carbon” that mangroves 
sequester underwater.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report  50 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherBetter Together
The challenges we’re tackling—like powering a global business with 100 percent renewable 
energy, or making products using only recycled or renewable materials—are too big for any  
one company to solve alone. So we listen. We speak. We convene. We advocate. We lead.  
We learn. And we engage at all levels: locally, nationally, and internationally; and with policymakers, 
researchers, non-governmental organizations, other companies, and our customers. Every 
conversation, every meeting, and every presentation brings us closer to unlocking more 
environmental innovations that we—and others—can apply. Because bold ideas and creative 
solutions can emerge anywhere, from anyone, at any time.
More partnerships. More progress.
We work with a wide range of nonprofit, industry, government, and business partners from 
across the globe. We’ve built strong relationships with a broad group of stakeholders, including 
those who might disagree with our approach. We do this because we believe that addressing 
their concerns often leads to better solutions. Exposing ourselves to varied perspectives  
helps us challenge our assumptions and refine our methods. That’s critical when you’re 
pursuing a vision that’s as bold and complex as ours: to one day make products without taking 
from the Earth.
Joining industry associations allows us to work closely with some of the best companies across 
all sectors. Our memberships in organizations like the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD), World Economic Forum’s Platform for Accelerating Circular Economy, 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Aluminum Stewardship Initiative, Ceres, Corporate Eco Forum, 
the Chinese Association of Circular Economy, Digital Europe—and most recently, the Japan 
Climate Leaders Partnership—provide us the opportunity to exchange ideas with those who 
share our commitment to a more sustainable future.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   51 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Collaborating for joint success.
We’ve continued to work with cross-sector companies, researchers, suppliers, technical 
experts, and customers to forge new paths, build unique solutions, and inspire others to 
continue their efforts.
Academic partnerships.
We are building relationships with key academic institutions worldwide—like Tsinghua 
University’s School of Economics and Management in Beijing, where we are funding a $3 
million endowed chair professorship based on Responsible Innovation. We also collaborated 
with Tsinghua University’s School of Public Policy and Management on its Summer Institute 
for China’s Green Innovators (SICGI) program. In the past three years, 112 students from 
50 universities joined the program to identify creative policy solutions to environmental 
challenges through course training and internships with local environment agencies.
To support our Smarter Chemistry work, in 2015, we formed a Green Chemistry Advisory 
Board, made up of some of the world’s leading toxicologists, researchers, and academics.  
The board helps us explore innovative ways to minimize or eliminate toxins from our supply 
chain and to incorporate the latest breakthroughs in green chemistry into our products  
and processes. 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   52 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Lisa Jackson speaks at the annual meeting of the 
American Geophysical Union about the role of 
the private sector in spurring smart, innovative 
environmental action. At Apple, we believe that 
telling the story of our vision and our progress can 
inspire others to join our efforts.Customer engagement. 
We seek to engage customers in our environmental mission, giving them opportunities to join 
in our efforts. In the past three years, we have launched two customer-facing campaigns:  
Apps for Earth; and communications around the benefits of returning devices to Apple for 
trade-in or recycling. 
Apps for Earth was a 2016 partnership with app developers and customers that generated 
over $8 million to support World Wildlife Fund’s global environmental projects. As of November 
2018, World Wildlife Fund has fully invested the funds raised in conservation projects spanning 
all seven continents. These projects have helped protect wildlife through improved tracking, 
increase access to freshwater in vulnerable communities, promote sustainable food production 
and consumption, improve community management of forests, use technology to advance 
ocean conservation, and build resilience in ecosystems threatened by climate change.
For every device received through Apple Trade In during a two-week period around Earth 
Day 2018, Apple made a donation to Conservation International. We then partnered with the 
nonprofit to use the funds to protect and restore a 27,000-acre mangrove forest in Colombia, 
which is expected to sequester 1 million metric tons of CO 2 over the project’s lifetime. These 
mangroves not only protect the coasts and help support the livelihood of those communities 
where they grow, they can also store up to 10 times more carbon than forests on land.  
This is because mangroves store significant amounts of “blue” carbon in the soil below the 
water line, in addition to storing carbon in their roots, leaves, and branches like other trees.  
Our project with Conservation International was the first to fully value the entire ecosystem—
trees and soil—for its climate mitigation value. We hope this effort will encourage the 
protection of threatened mangrove ecosystems globally as important resources in the fight 
against climate change. 
We also donated to the SEE Foundation in China with funds raised from the Earth Day 
campaign. With this contribution, SEE Foundation supported 20 grassroots NGOs in China 
focused on enhancing waste management and pollution control. SEE also facilitated cross-
industry collaboration such as introducing Zero Waste concepts to the outdoor sports industry.
Stakeholder roundtables.
Over the past several years, we have invited key stakeholders to participate in roundtables in 
Europe, the United States, and China to obtain feedback on Apple’s key environmental programs, 
like our work on Smarter Chemistry and our ambition to create a circular supply chain for the 
materials in our products. Attendees at these roundtables have included a range of academics, 
NGOs, industry leaders, and other companies. Since these meetings, we have collaborated with 
subject-matter experts, think tanks, NGOs, and consulting firms to support our work. 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   53 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
July 2015 (U.S.):  Apple joined the White House’s American 
Business Act on Climate Pledge, in which participating companies 
voiced support for a strong outcome at the COP21 in Paris and 
demonstrated an ongoing commitment to climate action.
April 2016 (U.S.): Apple joined Google, Microsoft, and Amazon to 
sign an amicus brief in support of the U.S. EPA’s Clean Power Plan
June 2016 (World):  Lisa Jackson addressed 700 senior 
government, business, and community leaders at the seventh Clean 
Energy Ministerial, where she called for governments across the 
world to put a price on carbon to address climate change. 
April 2017 (Japan): Apple joined nine other companies, including 
Fujitsu, Ikea, Microsoft, Patagonia, and Sony to formally encourage 
the Japanese government to promote corporate renewable  
energy use. 
June 2017 (China): Apple spoke at the eighth Clean Energy 
Ministerial in China to highlight our commitment to climate change, 
particularly our partnership with suppliers to reduce carbon 
emissions from manufacturing.
June 2017 (U.S.): Apple urged the White House to remain in the 
Paris climate agreement and take meaningful action on climate 
change
August 2017 (China): Apple met with central and provincial-level 
policymakers across China to advocate for corporations to be able 
to purchase directly from renewable energy power plants.
November 2017 (China):  Apple hosted a roundtable with the 
Green Electricity Consumption Cooperative Organization (GECCO) 
to create a platform for buyers in China to discuss renewable energy 
procurement challenges and opportunities, and inform future policy. 
November 2017 (Vietnam):  Apple joined a number of other 
companies urging the government of Vietnam to make regulatory 
changes allowing companies to procure renewable energy through 
direct power purchase agreements.March 2019 (Kenya): Apple participated in the UN Environmental 
Assembly and conducted bilateral discussions with a number of 
countries to advocate for policies that enable a circular economy and 
bold action on climate.
January 2019 (Vietnam):  Apple met with government officials 
to discuss benefits of electricity market reform, including allowing 
businesses to purchase power directly from renewable power plants.
December 2018 (China):  Apple provided feedback and insights 
on its approach to renewables procurement in China in support of 
a publication developed to help the broader corporate community 
identify renewable energy solutions.
October 2018 (Japan):  Apple spoke about clean energy and 
closed loop innovation at Japan’s Innovation for Cool Earth Forum 
(ICEF), an international gathering to tackle climate change through 
technical innovation.
October 2018 (South Korea): Apple met with government officials 
in Korea to advocate for increased renewable generation and for retail 
choice, whereby consumers can select their power source.
April 2018 (U.S.): Apple filed individual comments to the U.S. EPA, 
urging it not to repeal the Clean Power Plan because of its importance 
in reducing emissions. 
April 2018 (China): Apple submitted formal comments to 
China’s National Development and Reform Commission about the 
implications of draft policy on corporate clean energy procurement. 
February 2018 (Japan):  Apple filed comments with the Japanese 
government, calling for the development of a robust and verifiable 
renewable energy trading system.
January 2018 (U.S.):  Apple filed comments to the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission, urging it not to finalize a rule that would 
subsidize fossil fuels, which would limit the ability of renewables to 
compete in the electricity market. FERC chose not to finalize that rule.Speaking up for stronger climate policies.
Climate change is one of the greatest threats facing our planet. Clean energy technology offers tremendous benefits 
to our suppliers, electricity grids, and communities around the world. We believe that if policymakers fully and properly 
value these benefits, clean energy becomes more cost-competitive than fossil fuel energy. Market and policy design is 
not one-size-fits-all, so we work closely with our suppliers and local experts to find the best solution for each country. 
For the past four years, we have been advocating for strong climate policies that promote decarbonizing our economy 
and support procurement of renewable energy.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   54 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together
Appendix A 
Apple’s Operations:  
Environmental Data 
Facilities Environmental Performance Indicators (Page 56) 
Product Environmental Performance Indicators (Page 57) 
Scopes 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions Breakdown (Page 58) 
Natural Gas and Electricity Use (fiscal year 2018) (Page 59)
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   55 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherKPI UnitFiscal Year
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Greenhouse Gas 
EmissionsScope 1
metric tons  
CO₂e54,590 45,400 34,370 28,100 28,490 29,300 21,220 
Natural gas, diesel, propane239,990 34,560 27,000 19,360 20,710 22,090 14,300 
Fleet vehicles 11,110 8,300  7,370 8,740 7,780 7,210 6,920 
Process emissions33,490 2,540 — — — — —
Scope 248,730 36,250 41,000 42,460 63,210 91,510 139,160 
Scope 35520,500 293,440 303,910 312,910 259,130 225,630 202,060 
Business travel6337,340 121,000 117,550 139,940 110,940 90,948 85,090 
Employee commute7183,160 172,440 186,360 172,970 148,190 134,685 116,970 
Total facilities emissions 
(Scopes 1, 2, 3)583,820 375,090 379,280 383,470 350,830 346,440 362,440 
Energy UseElectricity
million kWh2,182 1,832 1,420 996 839 708 608*
U.S. 1,830 1,536 1,157 831 702 590 —
International 351 296 262 166 137 118 —
Natural gas
million BTU1,419,240 1,225,210 974,570 851,660 922,860 764,550 304,000 
U.S. 1,333,850 1,127,550 901,950 794,830 840,490 676,630 240,230
International 85,390 97,660 72,620 56,830 82,370 87,920 63,770
Energy  
Efficiency8Electricity saved per year as 
a result of energy efficiency 
measures kWh/year 113,203,780 69,989,660 55,288,800 37,875,000 31,225,000 26,241,600 11,354,200 
Natual gas saved per year as 
a result of energy efficiency 
measurestherms/year 2,541,440 2,453,410 2,228,477 1,676,735 1,431,215 1,238,291 548,508 
Renewable  
EnergyRenewable energy sourcing 
(fiscal year)9% 99 97  96  93  87  73  60 
Emissions avoided as a  
result of renewable energy 
sourcing (fiscal year)10metric tons 
CO₂e690,000 589,000 541,000 336,000 255,000 195,000 116,000 
Water UseTotal
million  
gallons1,260 1,000 630 573 494 430 345 
Data centers11460 410 207 166 113 69 57 
Retail 110 110 99 111 103 94 71 
Corporate12690 480 324 296 278 267 217 
Waste  
Generation13Landfilled
pounds36,553,900 31,595,200 21,618,850 13,110,880 6,833,000 5,923,810 4,850,160 
Recycled 108,515,200 68,509,300 28,198,560 19,599,570 14,621,940 15,866,650 11,464,020 
Composted 10,397,400 14,567,500 13,737,320 3,006,170 — — —
Hazardous waste 6,277,800 3,342,700 2,287,320 1,002,300 508,040 70,550 123,460 
Waste to energy141,105,100 645,000 — — — — —
Landfill diversion rate % 74 71 66 63 68 73 70
 Facilities Environmental  
Performance Indicators 
The following table summarizes environmental performance indicators relating to Apple’s 
global facilities, including our data centers, corporate offices, and over 500 retail stores, 
together occupied by 132,000 Apple employees.1
Notes
¹ As reported in Apple’s Form 10-K Annual Report filed with the SEC for fiscal year 2018.
2  Starting in fiscal year 2016, Scope 1 Emissions capture diesel use in emergency back-up generators and 
propane gas use in corporate offices. 
3 Emissions from R&D processes.
4  The building operations and cooling emissions (PUE) associated with our colocated data facilities are beyond 
our operational control and therefore these emissions are not included in our report.
5  In fiscal year 2017, we started calculating scope 3 emissions not listed above. In fiscal year 2018, these include 
electricity transmission and distribution losses (21,500 metric tons CO 2e) and lifecycle emissions associated 
with renewable energy (78,000 metric tons CO 2e).
6  We are constantly revisiting our methodology to hold ourselves to high accountability standards. So in fiscal 
year 2018, we changed how we calculate emissions from business travel in order to better account for classes 
of service in air travel. As a result of this change, our scope 3 transportation emissions increased by 77 percent. 
Without the methodology change, these emissions would have increased by 14 percent, which reflects the 
growth in our business.7   We adjusted our methodology for fiscal year 2017 to take into account Apple’s “At Home Advisors” program, 
where employees work remotely. 
8  Because energy efficiency measures have lasting benefits, energy efficiency savings are calculated cumulatively 
since 2011. All efficiency measures are retired based on their effective useful lifetime as documented by the 
Claifornia Energy Commission. 
9  We calculate our progress toward 100 percent renewable energy on a calendar year basis. Beginning January 1, 
2018, 100 percent of the electricity we use to power our global facilities is sourced from renewable energy. 
10  We have adjusted previous years’ avoided emissions to remove double counting biogas emissons.
11 Beginning in fiscal year 2017, “Data centers” includes water use at colocation facilities. 
12  Beginning in fiscal year 2017, “Corporate” includes water use at Apple distribution centers.
13  Beginning in fiscal year 2017, we’re including waste from Apple’s distribution centers. Starting fiscal year 2018, 
electronic waste is reported under the “Recycled” figure.
14 Beginning in fiscal year 2017, waste processed in “Waste to energy” facilities is reported separately.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   56 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherProduct Environmental  
Performance Indicators
The following table summarizes the environmental performance indicators relating to 
Apple’s products—including the life cycle greenhouse gas emissions associated with the 
manufacturing, transportation, use, and end of life of our products. In fiscal year 2018, we sold 
217 ,722,000 iPhone devices, 43,535,000 iPad units, and 18,209,000 Mac products.1
We also publish individual product environmental reports for all of our products. These are 
available at www.apple.com/environment .
Fiscal Year 2018 2017 2016 2015
Scope 3 - Life cycle greenhouse gas emissions  
(metric tons CO₂e)2,324,600,000 27,100,000 29,200,000 38,000,000
Manufacturing 18,500,000 21,100,000 22,800,000 29,600,000
Product transportation 1,300,000 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,300,000
Product use 4,700,000 4,700,000 4,900,000 6,600,000
End of life450,000 100,000 300,000 500,000
Packaging fiber footprint (metric tons) 168,000 145,000 129,000 133,000
Recycled fiber 64% 65% 62% 60%
Responsibly sourced virgin fiber 36% 35% 38% 40%
Other virgin fiber — — <1% <1%
Packaging plastics footprint 19,000 24,000 34,000 36,000
Safer materials
Arsenic5Removed from glass by 2008
PVC6PVC-free AC power cord available in all regions except India, Thailand, and South Korea
Beryllium Eliminated from all new product designs. Beryllium is found in copper alloys used to make connectors and springs
Mercury Eliminated in display 2009
Lead7Phased out of display glass and solder in 2006
Brominated flame retardants (BFRs)8Eliminated from thousands of parts since 2008
¹ As reported in Apple’s Form 10-K Annual Report filed with the SEC for FY2017.
²   We have been calculating the life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of our products since 2006. Over time, we have greatly refined our model to include more Apple-specific data instead of industry averages. The decrease in Scope 
3 emissions in fiscal year 2016 is partly due to these modeling changes, including improved modeling of the integrated circuits in Apple products. Further, there are systematic changes made in some emissions factors to reflect 
changes in global electricity grids.
³ Scope 3 emissions associated with employee commute and business travel are included in the table “Facilities Environmental Performance Indicators.”
⁴ Carbon emissions associated with our products’ end of life decreased in fiscal year 2017, because of changes in methodology to more accurately reflect disposal and recycling practices.
⁵ Arsenic is present in minute quantities in some semiconductor devices.
⁶   Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates with the exception of power cords in India, Thailand, and South Korea, where we continue to seek government approval for our PVC and phthalates replacement.
7   Apple products comply with the European Union Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including exemptions for the use of lead such as high-temperature solder. Apple is working to phase out the use of these exempted 
substances where technically possible.
8  While Apple’s phaseout covers the vast majority of products and components, products by Beddit, which Apple recently acquired, and some older Apple product designs may not be fully BFR- free and PVC- free. However, these 
products, including their replacement parts and accessories, were still designed to meet regulatory requirements.
Overview of Apple’s product life cycle carbon assessment (LCA) methodology
Apple uses five steps when conducting a product LCA.
1. To model the manufacturing phase, we use part-by-part measurements of the entire product along with data on part production. The measurements help us accurately determine the size and weight of the components and 
materials in the product, while data on manufacturing processes and yield loss during production allows us to account for the impact of manufacturing. The LCA includes accessories, packaging, and units that are repaired and 
replaced through AppleCare.
2. To model customer use, we measure the power consumed by a product while it is running in a simulated scenario. Daily usage patterns are specific to each product and are a mixture of actual and modeled customer use data. For 
the purposes of our assessment, years of use, which are based on first owners, are modeled to be four years for macOS and tvOS devices and three years for iOS and watchOS devices. Most Apple products last longer and are 
passed along, resold, or returned to Apple by the first owner for others to use. More information on our product energy use is provided in our Product Environmental Reports.
3. To model transportation, we use data collected on shipments of single products and multipack units by land, sea, and air. We account for transporting materials between manufacturing sites; transporting products from 
manufacturing sites to regional distribution hubs; transporting products from regional distribution hubs to individual customers; and transporting products from final customers to recycling facilities.
4. To model recycling, we use material composition data on our products and cover the treatment steps carried out by the recycler to obtain metal, plastic, and glass material streams. Subsequent processing and remelting steps are 
not included, as these are considered stages of production and not end-of -life processing.
5. After we collect data about production, use, transport, and recycling, we combine it with detailed greenhouse gas emission data. This emission data is based on a combination of Apple-specific and industry-average datasets for 
material production, manufacturing processes, electricity generation, and transportation. Renewable energy used in the supply chain, initiated by suppliers independently or through the Apple Supplier Clean Energy Program, are 
also accounted for. Combining product-specific data with emission data in our LCA tool allows us to compile detailed results for greenhouse gas emissions as they relate to the product. The data and modeling approaches are 
checked for quality and accuracy by the Fraunhofer Institute in Germany.
There is inherent uncertainty in modeling carbon emissions due primarily to data limitations. For the top component contributors to Apple’s carbon emissions, Apple addresses this uncertainty by developing detailed process-based 
environmental models with Apple-specific parameters. For the remaining elements of Apple’s carbon footprint, we rely on industry average data and assumptions.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   57 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherScopes 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions  
Breakdown (metric tons CO₂e)
Fiscal Year 2018 2017* 2016 2015
Location Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2
Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.
Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International29,980
24,720
630
320
1,350
890
30
200
1,8407,980
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7,98025,430
20,580
530
330
1,160
710
90
220
1,81033,290
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
33,29020,537
17,121
397
248
883
780
65
38
1,00530,408
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
30,40815,415
13,248
369
233
121
892
0
117
43519,564
0
0
0
0
0
3,767
2,201
13,596
Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA  
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV
Mesa, AZ
Viborg, Denmark
Colocation facilities (U.S.)**
Colocation facilities (International)**60
30
0
20
0
10
—
N/A
N/A410
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4104,210
150
70
950
1,530
1,510
—
N/A
N/A1,520
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1,5202,738
126
139
1,077
713
683
—
N/A
N/A1,621
0
0
0
0
0
—
0
1,62113
0
0
13
0
—
—
N/A
N/A0
0
0
0
0
—
—
—
—
Retail stores
U.S.
International4,300
2,720
1,580350
0
3504,920
2,490
2,4301,440
0
1,4403,679
1,597
2,0828,920
0
8,9203,800
2,269
1,53122,893
0
22,893
Business fleet 11,110 N/A 8,300 N/A 7,370 N/A 8,744 N/A
Process emissions*** 3,490 N/A 2,540 N/A — N/A — N/A
Other Scope 1 (Diesel, Propane, 
fugitive emissions)5,640 N/A — N/A — N/A — N/A
Totals 54,600 8,730 45,400 36,250 34,324 40,953 27,972 42,457
Fiscal Year 2014 2013 2012 2011
Location Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2
Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.
Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International15,335
12,929
411
148
115
1,000
51
385
29621,555
0
0
0
0
0
6,852
8,577
6,12613,727
10,747
509
83
337
743
50
390
86817,503
0
0
0
0
0
5,826
7,490
4,18711,343
9,132
560
59
237
715
32
—
60948,215
25,450
0
0
4,265
0
4,946
1,049
12,50512,656
9,238
556
45
564
804
—
—
1,44959,516
39,428
0
0
2,141
0
3,243
280
14,424
Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV18
0
0
18
00
0
0
0
02,201
2,201
0
0
00
0
0
0
0146
146
0
0
07,664
0
7,664
0
00
0
0
—
—28,988
0
28,988
—
—
Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International5,355
2,812
2,54341,658
11,036
30,6626,158
3,548
2,61074,002
44,606
29,3972,812
787
2,02583,285
—
—2,600
746
1,85465,769
—
—
Business fleet 7,7 78 N/A 7,214 N/A 6,923 N/A 6,400 N/A
Totals 28,486 63,213 29,300 91,505 21,224 139,164 21,656 154,273
—  Indicates that the energy source is not yet online.
Scope 1 emissions result from natural gas use in buildings, and fuel use for fleet vehicles. As is typical, these emissions are tracked separately from our 100 percent renewable energy claim. Starting in fiscal year 2016, Scope 1 emis -
sions capture diesel use in emergency back-up generators and propane gas use in corporate offices. Scope 1 emissions are calculated using emissions factors from EPA clean energy website https://www.epa.gov/climateleadership/
center-corporate-climate-leadership-ghg-emission-factors-hub.
Scope 2 emissions result from electricity use for Apple’s facilities, calculated using a market-based approach, following the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
*  Apple also calculates what our emissions would have been had we not taken action to supply new, clean renewable energy to our facilities. If we remove the emissions reduction benefits of our renewable energy program, then 
our Scope 1 emissions in fiscal year 2018 would have been 95,636 metric tons CO₂e and our Scope 2 emissions would have been 698,944 CO₂e for our corporate operations, data centers, and retail stores. In fiscal year 2018, 
combustion of biogas for our fuel cells resulted in 41,040 metric tons of direct CO₂e emissions. The biogas fuel cells are included in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions since they are within our operational control and their 
renewable certificates are matched with our data center load. These emissions are not counted in Apple’s footprint because they would have occurred naturally even if we had not combusted the biogas.
**   The building operations and cooling emissions (PUE) associated with our colocated data facilities are beyond our operational control and therefore these emissions are not included in our report.   
*** Emissions from R&D processes.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   58 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherNatural Gas and Electricity Use  
(fiscal year 2018)
The chart below provides a detailed breakdown of fiscal year 2018 energy use, which we used 
to calculate our greenhouse gas emissions.
Fiscal Year 2018
Natural Gas Electricity
LocationTotal Gas
(mmBTU)Renewable Biogas
(mmBTU)Total Electricity
(million kWh)Renewable Electricity
(million kWh)
Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.
Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International796,730 
697,670 
11,840 
6,090 
25,410 
16,730 
630 
3,830 
34,530 232,430 
232,430 
—
—
—
—
—
—
—638
381
15
54
22
16
16
29
105625
381
15
54
22
16
16
29
92
Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV  
Mesa, AZ
Viborg, Denmark
Colocation Facilities (USA)**  
Colocation Facilities (International)**541,690
540,970 
— 
460 
— 
260 
— 
N/A 
N/A540,970 
540,970 
— 
—
— 
— 
—  
N/A 
N/A 1,349
295
114
252
253
104
4
244
831,348
295
114
252
253
104
4
244
82
Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International80,820 
51,160 
29,660 —
— 
— 195
96
99194
96
98
Totals 1,419,240 773,400 2,182 2,167
Percent renewable* 54% 99%
— Data not tracked 
N/A = Gas use at colocation facilities is considered outside of Apple’s operational control.
* Beginning January 1, 2018, we reached 100 percent renewable energy.
**  We’ve updated our fiscal year 2016 colocation facilities footprint to reflect more accurately Apple’s operational boundaries. Per the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we’ve removed electricity use associated with colocation facility 
cooling and building operations. This energy use, however, is still covered by renewable energy. 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   59 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherAppendix B
Facilities Renewable  
Energy Supplement 
Use of renewable energy at our facilities has been a central component of our emissions 
reduction strategy since 2011. We’ve learned a lot about how best to secure renewable energy, 
which has helped us educate suppliers and expand our renewable energy efforts into our 
supply chain. This Facilities Renewable Energy Supplement summarizes the types of renewable 
energy solutions we’ve deployed, and details how we implement renewable energy at our data 
centers—our largest energy loads.
How we secure renewable energy 
Since launching our renewable energy program in 2011, we have implemented a number of 
solutions to procure renewable energy. Our strategy has evolved over time to create the most 
positive impact. 
Ownership and PURPA.  In 2011, Apple’s 100 percent equity ownership of our Maiden solar 
arrays was the first time a non-energy commercial company built its own utility-scale solar PV 
project. We used a 1978 federal law called the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA) 
to structure the project. We then applied this same structure to two more large solar PV and 
biogas fuel cell projects in North Carolina and two micro-hydro projects in Oregon. This was a 
landmark moment in corporate renewable energy development and led to an increased use of 
PURPA in these states.
Direct Access.  Since 2012, in California and Oregon, we’ve used a program called Direct 
Access to bypass the default electricity generation offered by the utilities servicing our data 
centers in those states. Instead, we contracted directly with independent power producers who 
could supply 100 percent renewable electricity. After initially buying from existing, third-party 
owned projects, we’re now procuring renewable energy from projects we created: The Solar 
Star II project delivers renewables to our Oregon data center, and the California Flats solar 
project to our data center in California.
Green rider.  In 2013, we opened a new data center in Reno, Nevada. With no PURPA or Direct 
Access options in Nevada, we worked directly with the local utility, NV Energy, to create a whole 
new regulatory structure. The “Nevada Green Rider” enables us to secure a long-term, fixed-
price contract for renewable electricity from a new solar PV project built for us, but managed by 
the utility. We’ve used this partnership to create four solar projects totaling 320 megawatts.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   60 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherEquity investment.  In 2014, we invested in two 20-megawatt solar PV projects in Sichuan, 
China to support all our in-country retail stores, corporate offices, and data storage facilities. 
This project represented the first time a commercial company created a new large-scale 
project in China for its own use. We’ve since replicated this model many times for Apple’s 
supply chain.
Portfolio solutions.  In 2015 and 2016, we adapted to land scarcity constraints in Singapore 
and Japan by contracting for solar PV on 800 rooftops in Singapore and 300 in Japan. We 
adapted our approach in each country to fit local partnerships and regulatory structures: We 
signed a long-term agreement similar to a power purchase agreement in Singapore and made 
an equity investment in Japan. These projects offer us long-term flexibility as our load grows.
Renewable microgrid.  Since 2017, we’ve been powering Apple Park with 100 percent 
renewable energy—about 75 percent of which is generated onsite and managed by a 
microgrid. The onsite generation comes from 14 megawatts of rooftop solar PV and  
4 megawatts of baseload biogas fuel cells. Any additional energy required is drawn by Direct 
Access from the California Flats solar project in nearby Monterey County. The microgrid system 
with battery storage manages the renewable energy generation and the building’s energy use; 
optimizes demand management, load shifting, and frequency regulation services; and ensures 
uninterrupted energy reliability against local grid outages.
A focus on data centers 
We used over 1.3 billion kWh of electricity in fiscal year 2018 to power our data centers 
and colocation facilities around the world, representing over 60 percent of Scope 1 and 
2 emissions. We’re proud that 100 percent of that electricity came from clean, renewable 
sources including solar, wind, biogas fuel cells, and low-impact hydro power. To cover our 
needs, we build our own renewable power projects and work with utilities to purchase clean 
energy from locally obtained resources. In fiscal year 2018, we avoided the equivalent of more 
than 466,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions by using 100 percent renewable energy 
for our data centers—that’s equivalent to taking almost 100,000 cars off the road for a year.1
We’re staying at 100 percent even as Apple’s data center presence continues to grow. We 
now operate five data centers, and several more are being developed. These data centers 
are spread across North America, Europe, and Asia. Each has unique design features that 
conserve energy and reflect the climate, as well as other aspects, of its location.
1  Greenhouse gas equivalencies calculated using the U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator:  
http://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   61 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherSolar + Biogas Fuel Cells
Maiden, North Carolina
Between 2011 and 2015, we installed 68 megawatts of Apple-created projects: two 
20-megawatt solar projects, an 18-megawatt solar project, and 10 megawatts of biogas fuel 
cells. We then partnered with the local utility, Duke Energy, to help build five solar projects 
through its Green Source Rider program. These solar projects came online beginning in 
2015 and were Duke Energy’s first Green Source Rider projects to become operational. We 
worked with Duke Energy for several years to develop this green energy tariff option, which 
allowed Apple and Duke Energy to work together to develop new renewable energy projects. 
The five projects have a combined capacity of 20 megawatts. In 2017, we made long-term 
commitments to five more solar projects in North Carolina, for an additional 86 megawatts 
of clean energy. In fiscal year 2018, the Maiden data center was supported by projects that 
generated 303 million kWh of renewable energy, which is equivalent to the energy used by 
almost 24,000 North Carolina homes.2 
Energy efficiency measures we’ve implemented at our Maiden data centers include use of 
outside air cooling through a waterside economizer during night and cool-weather hours, 
which, along with water storage, allows the chillers to be idle 75 percent of the time.
Maiden, North Carolina—100% renewable since opening June 2010
303 million kWh energy use in fiscal year 2018
Duke Energy Default Grid Mix Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Nuclear 51% Apple’s Solar Projects 38%
Coal 33% Apple’s Biogas Fuel Cells 24%
Other 16% Duke Green Source Rider  
(100% solar)12%
Renewable <1% NC GreenPower (100% solar) 14%
Other Solar Contracts 12%
2018 Default Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)110,910 2018 Effective Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)0
From Duke Energy Carolinas 2015 Statistical Supplement 
generation dataActual fiscal year 2018 energy data
2  Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2017 data:  
https://www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf .
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   62 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherWind + Solar + Low-Impact Hydro
Prineville, Oregon
To support our Prineville data center, we recently signed a 200-megawatt power purchase 
agreement for a new Oregon wind farm, the Montague Wind Power Facility, set to come 
online later in 2019. It’s our largest project to date, producing over 560 million kWh of clean, 
renewable energy a year.
Additionally, we executed a power purchase agreement for the 56-megawatt Solar Star 
Oregon II project located just a few miles from our data center. This solar PV project, which 
came online and began supporting the data center in 2017 , produces 140 million kWh of 
renewable energy a year. To strengthen the connection between Apple and these projects, 
we use Oregon’s Direct Access program to supply the renewable energy from these projects 
directly to our data center.
Also supporting the data center are two micro-hydro projects that harness the power of water 
flowing through local irrigation canals that have been operating for over 60 years. These micro-
hydro projects generate about 7 to 10 million kWh of renewable energy a year.
To supplement these projects, we executed a long-term purchase agreement for all 
environmental attributes from a 50-megawatt portfolio of six solar projects in Oregon.
In fiscal year 2018, the Prineville data center was supported by projects that generated  
252 million kWh of renewable energy, which is equivalent to the energy used by 21,670  
Oregon homes.2
Our Prineville data center takes advantage of the cool and dry climate by cooling the servers 
with outside air whenever possible. Indirect evaporative cooling is enabled when the outside air 
temperature gets too high to cool the servers with outside air alone.
Prineville, Oregon—100% renewable since opening May 2012 
252 million kWh energy use in fiscal year 2018 
Pacific Power Default Grid Mix Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Coal 59% Apple’s Micro-hydro Projects <1%
Natural Gas 15% Oregon Solar (via Direct Access) >99%
Other 9%
Renewable 17%
2018 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)74,706 2018 Effective Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)0
https://www.pacificpower.net/content/dam/pacific_power/
doc/About_Us/Rates_Regulation/Oregon/17645-37_OR_
LabelingInsert_LrgBiz_F.pdfActual fiscal year 2018 energy data
2  Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2017 data:  
https://www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf .
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   63 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherSolar
Reno, Nevada
Unlike competitive energy markets where we’ve located some of our data centers, the 
regulated electricity supply in Nevada did not offer a simple solution for us to create new 
renewable energy projects dedicated to our data center. So, in 2013, we created a partnership 
with the local utility, NV Energy, to develop the Fort Churchill Solar project. Apple designed, 
financed, and constructed the project, and NV Energy operates it and directs all the renewable 
energy it produces to our data center. The Fort Churchill Solar project uses a photovoltaic 
panel with curved mirrors that concentrate sunlight. The 20-megawatt array has an annual 
production capacity of over 43 million kWh.
To facilitate further renewable development in Nevada, Apple worked with NV Energy and the 
Nevada utility commission to create a green energy option open to all commercial customers, 
called the Nevada Green Rider, that does not require the customer to fund project development 
up-front. Thanks to this new option, in 2015 we announced our second Nevada solar project, 
the 50-megawatt Boulder Solar II project. This project came online in 2017 , producing  
137 million kWh of renewable energy a year.
We have used the Nevada Green Rider two more times, first for the 200-megawatt Techren 
Solar II project. Apple’s largest solar project to date, it is estimated to produce over 540 million 
kWh when it comes online later this year. Next was the 50-megawatt Turquoise Nevada 
project, estimated to produce 110 million kWh a year and come online in 2020.
In fiscal year 2018, the Reno data center was supported by projects that generated 253 million 
kWh of renewable energy, which is equivalent to the energy used by 24,690 Nevada homes.2
Like in Prineville, our Reno data center takes advantage of the mild climate by cooling the 
servers with outside air whenever possible. When the outside air is too warm to cool the 
servers alone, it draws from indirect evaporative cooling.
Reno, Nevada—100% renewable since opening December 2012 
253 million kWh energy use in fiscal year 2018
NV Energy—North Default Grid Mix Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Natural Gas 58% Apple’s Solar Projects (via the 
Nevada Green Rider program)100%
Coal 16%
Large Hydro 8%
Other 2%
Renewable 16%
2018 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)78,760 2018 Effective Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)0
https://www.nvenergy.com/publish/content/dam/
nvenergy/bill_inserts/2019/01_jan/power-content-insert-
south-2019-01_03_31.pdfActual fiscal year 2018 energy data
2  Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2017 data:  
https://www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf .
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   64 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherSolar
Newark, California
Our data center in Newark, California, is powered by 100 percent renewable energy. We hit 
this milestone in January 2013, when we began serving the data center with energy sourced 
primarily from California wind power. We’re acquiring this energy directly from the wholesale 
market through California’s Direct Access program. In 2017, Apple’s 130-megawatt California 
Flats solar project in nearby Monterey County came online, and now we use Direct Access to 
supply power from that project directly to our data center as well as other Apple facilities  
in California.
In fiscal year 2018, the Newark data center was supported by projects that generated  
114 million kWh of renewable energy, which is equivalent to the energy used by 17,150 
California homes.2
Newark, California—100% renewable since January 2013 
114 million kWh energy use in fiscal year 2018 
Pacific Gas & Electric Default Grid Mix Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Natural Gas 20% Bundled Solar (via Direct Access) 100%
Nuclear 27%
Large Hydro 18%
Unspecified 2%
Renewable 33%
2018 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)7,570 2018 Effective Emissions  
(mtons CO₂e/year)0
https://www.energy.ca.gov/pcl/labels/2017_labels/PG_
and_E_2017_PCL.pd fActual fiscal year 2018 energy data
2  Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2017 data:  
https://www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf .
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   65 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherSolar
Mesa, Arizona
Our global command data center in Mesa, Arizona, came online in 2016. To support this 
facility, we partnered with the local utility, the Salt River Project, to build the 50-megawatt 
Bonnybrooke solar project, which became operational in December 2016. This project 
produces over 147 million kWh of clean, renewable energy a year, which more than fully 
matches the energy used by the data center.
In fiscal year 2018, the Mesa data center was supported by 104 million kWh of renewable 
energy, which is equivalent to the energy used by 8,390 Arizona homes.2
Mesa Arizona—100% renewable since opening March 2017*
104 million kWh energy use in fiscal year 2018
Salt River Project Default Grid Mix Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use
Coal 53% Apple’s Solar Project 100%
Nuclear 18%
Natural Gas/Other 17%
Renewable 12%
2018 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)49,330 2018 Effective Emissions (mtons 
CO₂e/year)0
www.srpnet.com/about/stations/pdfx/2014irp.pdf Actual fiscal year 2018 energy data
*  Apple took operational control of the building in October 2015 and converted it to a data center that began servicing customers in 
March 2017.
Denmark
We’re currently constructing a new data center in Viborg, Denmark. It will run on 100 percent 
renewable energy. In fiscal year 2018, the construction process used 3.5 million kWh of 
electricity that was supplied with 100 percent wind power from a local retailer in Denmark that 
only supplies renewable energy. We have long-term supply contracts with Denmark wind and 
solar projects that will come online by 2020. The solar project, at 42 megawatts, will be one of 
Denmark’s largest.
Due to its proximity to one of Denmark’s largest electrical substations, the data center won’t 
require backup generators, which typically run on diesel and require periodic testing and 
burning of fuel. 
We’re working with Aarhus University, Foulum campus, which is conducting important research 
to increase the production of anaerobic digesters. We are co-developing a project using 
agricultural waste biomass, which has long been used in Denmark to generate energy. 
China
We have two new data centers in development in China, one in Guizhou Province, the other in 
Inner Mongolia. Both will be supplied with 100 percent renewable energy.
2  Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2017 data:  
https://www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf .
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   66 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherOur colocation facilities
The majority of our online services are provided by our own data centers; however, we also use 
third-party colocation facilities for additional data center capacity. While we don’t own these 
shared facilities and use only a portion of their total capacity, we include our portion of their 
energy use in our renewable energy goals. Starting January 2018, 100 percent of our power 
for colocation facilities was matched with renewable energy generated within the same state 
or NERC region for facilities in the United States, or within the same country or regional grid for 
those around the world. As our loads grow over time, we’ll continue working with our colocation 
suppliers to match 100 percent of our energy use with renewables. 
Furthermore, we worked with one of our main suppliers of colocation services to help it 
develop the capability to provide renewable energy solutions to its customers. This partnership 
advances Apple’s renewable energy program and those of other companies that use this 
colocation provider.
Energy Use and Emissions at Apple’s Colocation Facilities
Regional Energy Use at Apple’s Colocation FacilitiesTotal Energy Use  
(kWh)Renewable Energy 
(kWh)Default Utility 
Emissions1 
(metric tons CO 2e)Apple’s Emissions— 
Including Renewable 
Energy2 
(metric tons CO 2e)Percent Renewable 
Energy3
FY2011 42,500 0 10 10 0%
FY2012 38,552,300 1,471,680 17,20 0 16,500 4%
FY2013 79,462,900 46,966,900 31,800 14,500 59%
FY2014 108,659,700 88,553,400 44,300 11,000 81%
FY2015 142,615,000 121,086,100 60,500 12,700 85%
FY20164145,520,900 143,083,200 66,300 1,600 98%
FY2017 289,195,800 286,378,100 125,600 1,500 99%
FY2018 327,663,800 326,959,700 146,600 400 99.8%
Total Energy Use 
(kWh)Renewable Energy 
(kWh)Percent Renewable 
Energy
U.S. 244,376,400 244,376,400 100%
Europe 30,831,400 30,114,500 98%
APAC 52,456,000 52,368,800 100%
FY2018 Total 327,663,800 326,859,700 99.8%Beyond the use of our own data centers and 
colocation facilities, we also use third-party 
computing services to support some of our  
on-demand cloud storage-based services. 
We are requiring these suppliers to adopt a 
100 percent renewable energy strategy for 
their Apple energy use.1  We calculate “default utility emissions” to provide baseline emissions of what our carbon footprint would have been without the use of renewable energy. This allows us to demonstrate the savings 
resulting from our renewable energy program.
2  Apple’s greenhouse gas emissions are calculated using the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology for calculating market-based emissions.
3  We calculate our progress toward our 100 percent renewable energy goal on a calendar year basis, while the numbers reported in this table are based on fiscal year. Beginning January 1, 2018, all of 
the electricity use at our colocation facilities is from 100 percent renewable energy.
4  Over the past two years, we have been installing submeters in colocation facilities to better track electricity usage. Beginning in FY2016, we started reporting this submetered electricity usage. Prior 
to fiscal year 2016, reported electricity usage was conservatively estimated based on maximum contract capacity quantities. We’ve updated our fiscal year 2016 colocation facilities footprint to reflect 
more accurately Apple’s operational boundaries. Per the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we’ve removed from our electricity usage and Scope 2 calculations those emissions associated with colocation 
facility cooling and building operations.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   67 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherAppendix C 
Assurance and Review Statements 
Bureau Veritas: Facilities energy, carbon, waste, paper,  
and water data (Pages 70–72) 
Fraunhofer Institute: Product life cycle carbon footprint (Pages 73–76) 
Bureau Veritas: Supplier clean energy program (Pages 77–79) 
Fraunhofer Institute: Comprehensive fiber footprint (Pages 80–82) 
Fraunhofer Institute: Packaging plastic footprint (Pages 83–85)
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   68 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
BUREAU VERITAS NORT H AMERICA  
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT  
 
 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Bureau Veritas  North America, Inc . (BVNA ) was e ngaged  by Apple, Inc . (Apple)  to conduct an 
independent assurance  of select environmental data reporte d in its 2019  environmental report (the 
Report) .  This Assurance  Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of 
work described below.   The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of Apple . 
The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance  to Apple ’s stakeholders on the  accuracy, 
reliability and objectivity of select  information included in the Report .   
This information and its presentation in the Report  are the sole responsibility of the management of 
Apple .  BVNA  was not involved in the collection of the information o r the drafting of the  Report .  
 
Scope of Work  
Apple requested BVNA  to include in its independent review the following:   
 Assurance of select environmental d ata and information included in  the Report for the fiscal 
year 2018  reporting period  (October 1, 201 7 through September 29 , 201 8), specifically , in 
accordance with Apple’s definitions and World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol :  
o Energy : Direct (Million Therms) and Indirect  (Million kilowatt hours ( mkWh)) 
o Renewable Energy (mkWH)  
o Water  Withdrawal  (Million Gallons ) 
o Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions : Direct Scope 1  emissions by weight , Indirect Scope 
2 emissions by weight , Indirect Scope 3  emissions by weight  (Employee Commute and 
Busine ss Travel ) (Metric Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent)  
o Waste Quantities and Disposition  (Metric Tonnes)  
o Paper Quantities (Metric Tonnes)  
o Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to 
collect, analyze , and review the  environmental information reported ;  
Excluded from the scope of our work  is any  assurance of information relating to:  
 Text or other written statements associated with the Report  
 Activities outside the defined  assurance  period  
 
Methodology  
BVNA undertook  the following activities:  
1. Site visits to Apple facilities in Mesa, Arizona ; Cork, Ireland ; Shanghai, China ; and 
Singapore .  
2. Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino , California;  
3. Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple ;  
4. Review of internal and ex ternal documentary evidence produced by  Apple ;  
5. Audit of environmental performance data  presented in the Report , including a detailed review 
of a sample of data  against source data ; and 
6. Review of Apple  information system s for  collection, aggregation, analy sis and internal 
verification and review  of environmental data.   
Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas ’ standard procedures and guidelines for external 
Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance.   
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   69 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
Apple, Inc.  Page 2 
Bureau Veritas procedures are based on principles and methods described in the  International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000.  
 
The work was planned and carried out to provide  reasonable assuran ce for all indicators  and we 
believe it provide s an appropriate basis for our conclusions.   
 
Our Findings    
BVNA verified the following indicators for Apple’s Fiscal Year 2018 reporting period  (October 1, 2017 
through September 29, 2018 ):  
 
Parameter  Quantity  Units Boundary/ Protocol  
Natural Gas Consu mption:   14.2  Million Therms  Worldwide  occupied 
properties  / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Electricity Consumption:  2,182  Million kilowatt 
hours ( mkWh)  Worldwide  occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Renewable Energy  2,166  Million kilowatt 
hours ( mkWh) Worldwide / Invoiced 
quantities & self -generated  
Scope 1 GHG Emissions  54,600  metric tons of 
carbon dioxide 
equivalent (tCO 2e) Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol  
Scope 2 GHG Emissions  
(Location -Based)  776,500  tCO 2e Worldwide occupi ed 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol  
Scope 2 GHG Emissions 
(Market -Based)  8,700 tCO 2e Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol  
Scope 3 GHG Emissions  – 
Business Travel  337,300  tCO 2e Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol V alue Chain 
(Scope 3)  
Scope 3 GHG Emissions – 
Employee Commute  183,200  tCO 2e Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol Value Chain 
(Scope 3)  
Water Withdrawal  1,300  Million gallons  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Trash   disposed in Landfill  16,600  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Hazardous Waste 
(Regulated waste)  2,800  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Recycled Material 
(Removal by recycling 
contractor)  49,200  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Composted Material  4,700  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Waste to Energy  500 Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple In ternal 
Protocol  
Paper  1,300  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
  
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   70 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
Apple, Inc.  Page 3 
Our Conclusion  
Based on the assurance process and procedures conducted , we conclude that :  
 The Energy, Water, Waste, Paper, and Scope 1 , 2 & 3 GHG Emissi ons assertions show n 
above ar e materially correct and are a fair representati on of the data and information; and  
 Apple has established appropriate system s for the collection, aggregation and analysis of 
relevant environmental information , and has implement ed underlying internal assurance 
practices that provide a reasonable degree of confidence that such information is complete 
and accurate .  
 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence  
BVNA is an independent professional  services company that spe cializ es in Quality, Health, Safety, 
Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent 
assurance services . 
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Apple , its Directors or Managers 
beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this 
verification independently  and we believe there to have been  no conflict of interest .  
 
BVNA has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain  high ethical standards 
among staff in their day-to-day business activities.    
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance  over environmental, social, 
ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes , has over 20 years  comb ined 
experience in this field and an excellent understanding of BVNA standard methodology for the 
Assurance of Sustainability Reports .  
Attestation:  
        
Trevor A. Donaghu , Lead Assuror   John Rohde , Technical Reviewer  
Program Manager  Practice Lead  
Sustainability and Climate Change Services  Sustainability and Climate Change Services  
Bureau  Veritas North America, Inc.  Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.  
March 22, 2019  
 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   71 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 1Letter of Assurance  
Comprehensive Carbon Footprint – Scope 3: Product r elated Carbon 
Footprint for Fiscal Year 2018 
Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s scope 3 carbon foot print data related to the products 
manufactured and sold by Apple Inc. in fiscal year 2018.  
1 Summary 
This review checks transparency of data and calcula tions, appropriateness of supporting 
product related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the calculated 
comprehensive annual carbon footprint comprised of emissions derived from the life cycle 
assessment (LCA) of Apple products shipped in fisca l year 2018. This review and verification 
focuses on Scope 3 emissions for products sold by A pple Inc. (as defined by 
WRI/WBCSD/Greenhouse Gas Protocol – Scope 3 Account ing and Reporting Standard). It is 
noted that emissions relating to the facilities tha t are owned or leased by Apple (scope 1 
and 2 emissions) as well as business travel and emp loyee commute were subject to a 
separate third party verification and are therefore  excluded from the scope of this 
statement. Confidential data relating to product sa les and shipments were also excluded 
from the scope of this verification.  
This review and verification covers Apple’s annual greenhouse gas emissions and does not 
replace reviews conducted for individual product LC As for greenhouse gas emissions 
(GHGs). The life cycle emissions data produced by A pple for individual products has been 
calculated in accordance to the standard ISO 14040/ 14044: Environmental management – 
Life cycle assessment – Principles and framework / Requirements and guidelines. This 
review and verification furthermore complies with I SO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 
3: Specification with guidance for the validation a nd verification of greenhouse gas 
assertions.  
The review of the annual carbon footprint has considered the following criteria: 
The system, boundaries and functional unit are clea rly defined 
Assumptions and estimations made are appropriate 
Selection of primary and secondary data is appropriate and methodologies used 
are adequately disclosed 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   72 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 2These criteria are also fundamental to the review o f LCAs conducted for individual product 
emissions. The reviewers note that the largest share (98%) of Apple Inc. annual carbon 
footprint is comprised of scope 3 emissions from in dividual products. The aforementioned 
criteria have been regularly reviewed by Fraunhofer IZM since 2007 with a view to 
providing independent feedback that can facilitate continuous improvement and 
refinement in the LCA methodology applied by Apple Inc.  
Data reported by Apple is as follows: 
 Manufacturing  Transportation  Product Use  Recycling  
2018 18.49  1.33 4.65 0.05 
[MMT CO 2e] [MMT CO 2e] [MMT CO 2e] [MMT CO 2e] 
MMT CO 2e: million metric tons carbon dioxide equivalents 
Including a reported value of 0.58 million metric t ons CO 2e for facilities (out of scope of 
this verification), total comprehensive carbon foot print is reported to be 25.2 million metric 
tons CO 2e. 
Apple’s comprehensive carbon footprint includes an increasing amount of greenhouse gas 
emissions reductions for manufacturing resulting from Apple renewable energy projects, 
supplier renewable electricity purchases, and supplier renewable electricity installations.  
These reductions are part of Apple’s Clean Energy P rogram. Fraunhofer IZM has not 
verified these emissions reductions. 
Based on the process and procedures conducted, ther e is no evidence that the Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) assertion with regards to scope 3 carbon footprint 
is not materially correct and is not a fair represe ntation of GHG data and 
information, and 
has not been prepared in accordance with the relate d International Standard on 
GHG quantification, monitoring and reporting. 
2 Reviewed Data and Plausibility Check 
A verification and sampling plan as required by ISO  14046-3 has been established for the 
comprehensive carbon footprint review and verificat ion, defining the level of assurance, 
objectives, criteria, scope and materiality of the verification. 
As part of this review and verification Apple discl osed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  
Sales data for FY2018, including accessories and including AppleCare, Apple's 
extended warranty and technical support plans for their devices. 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   73 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 3Product specific data on transportation including breakdown of air and sea 
shipment 
Life cycle GHG emissions for all products, differentiating the actual product 
configurations (e.g. memory capacity) 
Calculation methodology for the comprehensive carbon footprint and 
methodological changes implemented in 2018 
The total carbon footprint – scope 3 for the fiscal  year 2018 
Detailed analysis of the comprehensive carbon footprint including: 
oThe breakdown of the carbon footprint into life cyc le phases 
manufacturing, transportation, product use and recy cling 
oDetailed product specific split into life cycle pha ses 
oThe contribution of individual products and product  families to the overall 
carbon footprint 
The data and information supporting the GHG assertion were projected (use phase and 
recycling) and historical (i.e. fiscal year 2018 da ta regarding sales figures, manufacturing, 
transportation). 
This review comprises a check of selected data, which are most influential to the overall 
carbon footprint. The overall plausibility check addressed the following questions: 
Are product LCAs referenced correctly? 
Are results for products, for which no full LCA rev iew was undertaken, plausible? 
Are carbon emission data for individual products pl ausible in the light of 
methodological changes as indicated by Apple?  
This review was done remotely. 
3 Findings 
In FY2018 and beginning of FY2019 10 recent product  LCA studies have been reviewed 
successfully against ISO 14040/44. These LCAs cover product segments MacBook Pro, 
iMac, Apple Watch, Homepod and iPhone. These recent ly reviewed LCA studies cover 
products which represent in total 44,9% of the tota l scope 3 carbon footprint. 
Representatives of other product segments (iPod, iP ad, Mac Pro, Mac Mini, Airport Express 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   74 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 4/ Airport Extreme, Apple TV, and Beats products) underwent no or only minor design 
changes compared to those which went through a full  LCA review in former years. All 
reviewed LCA studies up to now cover in total 67,9%  of the total scope 3 carbon footprint. 
All questions raised in the course of the review we re answered by Apple and related 
evidence was provided where needed. 
4 Conclusions 
Apple’ assessment approach is excellent in terms of  granularity of the used calculation 
data. A significant share of components is modelled with accurate primary data from 
Apple’s suppliers.  
For all product LCA calculations, where exact data was missing, the principle of a worst-
case approach has been followed and results have be en calculated with rather conservative 
estimates.   
The review has not found assumptions or calculation errors on the carbon footprint data 
level that indicate the scope 3 carbon footprint ha s been materially misstated. The excellent 
analysis meets the principles of good scientific pr actice.    
Berlin, April 3, 2019 
   
- Karsten Schischke -  - Marina Proske - 
Fraunhofer IZM  Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering  Reliability Engineering 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   75 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA  
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT  
 
 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Bureau Veritas  North America, Inc . (BVNA ) was e ngaged  by Apple, Inc . (Apple)  to conduct an 
independent assurance  of its Supplier Clean Energy Program data reporte d in its 2019  environmental 
report (the Report) .  This Assurance  Statement applies to the related information included within the 
scope of work described below .  The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders 
of Apple . The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance  to Apple ’s stakeh olders on the 
accuracy, reliability and objectivity of select  information included in the Report .   
This information and its presentation in the Report  are the sole responsibility of the management of 
Apple .  BVNA  was not involved in the collection of the information or the drafting of the  Report .  
 
Scope of Work  
Apple requested BVNA  to include in its independent review the following:   
 Methodology for tracking and verifying supplier clean energy contributions, including the 
Energy Survey, Renewable Energy Agreement, and other forms of supporting documentation 
provided by suppliers where available;  
 Assurance of Clean Energy Program data and information for the fiscal year 2018 reporting 
period  (October 1, 2017 through September  29, 201 8), specifically , in ac cordance with 
Apple’s definitions : 
o Energy: Reported megawatt -hours (MWh) of clean energy attributed to the Clean Energy 
Program for suppliers;  
o Avoided Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions associated with clean energy attributed to 
the Clean Energy Program;  
o Opera tional Capacity in megawatts (MWac) of clean energy in support of Apple 
manufacturing as a part of Apple’s Supplier Clean Energy Program;  
o Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to 
collect, analyze , and review the  information reported ;  
Excluded from the scope of our work  is any  assurance of information relating to:  
 Text or other written statements associated with the Report  
 Activities outside the defined  assurance  period  
 
Methodology  
BVNA undertook the following  activities:  
1. Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino , California;  
2. Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple ;  
3. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by  Apple ;  
4. Audit of reported data, including a detailed review of a sample of data  against source data ; 
and 
5. Review of Apple  information system s for  collection, aggregation, analysis  and internal 
verification and review  of environmental data.   
Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas ’ standard procedures and guidelines for ex ternal 
Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance.  
Bureau Veritas procedures are based on principles and methods described in the  International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000.  
 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   76 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
Apple, Inc.  Page 2 
The work was planned and carried out to provide  limited assuran ce for all indicators  and we believe it 
provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.   
 
Our Findings    
BVNA verified the following indicators for Apple’s Fiscal Year 2018  reporting period  (October 1 , 2017 
through September 29, 2018 ):  
 
Parameter  Quantity  Units Boundary/ Protocol  
Clean Energy Use  4.12 Million mega watt 
hours ( mMWh) Apple suppliers  / Apple 
Internal Protocol 
Avoided GHG Emissions  3.53  Million metric tons 
of carbon dioxide 
equivalent 
(mMtCO 2e) Apple suppliers  / Apple 
Internal Protocol 
Operational Capacity  1,950 Megawatts (MWac)  Apple suppliers  / Apple 
Internal Protocol  
  
Our Conclusion  
Based on the assurance process and procedures conducted , there is no evidence that the asser tions 
for Clean Energy Consumption, Avoided GHG Emissions, and Operational Capacity shown above :  
 Are not materially correct;  
 Are not a fair representation of the stated information; and  
 Have not been prepared in accordance with Apple’s stated protocols fo r their Clean Energy 
Program.  
It is our opinion that Apple has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and 
analysis of quantitative data for determination of the above indicators for the stated period and 
boundaries.  
 
Statement of  independence, impartiality and competence  
BVNA is an independent professional  services company that specializ es in Quality, Health, Safety, 
Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent 
assurance services, and an annual 2018 revenue of $4.8 billion Euros.  
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Apple , its Directors or Managers 
beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this 
verification independently  and we believe there to have been  no conflict of interest .  
 
BVNA has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain  high ethical standards 
among staff in their day-to-day business activities.    
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   77 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
Apple, Inc.  Page 3 
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance  over environmental, social, 
ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes , has over 20 years  combined 
experience in this field and an excellent understanding of BVNA standard methodology for t he 
Assurance of Sustainability Reports .  
Attestation:  
        
Trevor A. Donaghu , Lead Verifier  John Rohde , Technical Reviewer  
Program Manager  Practice Lead  
Sustainability and Climate Change Services  Sustainability and Climate Change Services  
Bureau  Veritas North America, Inc.  Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.  
March 22, 2019  
 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   78 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate  Fiber Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 1 Review Statement  
Corporate  Fiber Footprint  
Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s c orporate  fiber footprint data related to corporate fiber 
usage from products, corporate,  and retail operations  in fiscal year 2018.  
 
1 Summary  
This review checks transparency of dat a and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product and packaging related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the 
calculated corporate annual fiber footprint of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 201 8 
and of corporate and retail oper ations in the same period .  
As there is no standardised method available for calculating a product or company fiber 
footprint Apple defined a methodology  for internal use. The scope of the Fiber Footprint 
includes Apple’s corporate fiber usage from product s, corporate,  and retail operations . The 
fiber footprint  tracks the total amount of wood , bamboo , and bagasse fiber, both virgin 
and recycled,  that Apple uses in packaging, and other paper products. Apple obtains and 
analyses  supplier -specific data for eac h product line and sum s up these figures for the 
entire  company using sell -in numbers.  The output is a total fiber footprint.   
The review of the corporate annual fiber footprint has considered the following criteria:  
 The system boundaries are clearly defin ed 
 Assumptions and estimations made are app ropriate  
 Use of supplier  data is appropriate and methodologies used are adequately 
disclosed  
Data reported by Apple is as follows:  
2018  Total Fiber  Virgin Fiber  Recycled Fiber  
Packaging Fiber  168,000  60,000  108,000 
Corporate Fiber  3,000  1,000  2,000  
Total  171,000 61,0 00 110,000 
[metric tons fiber]  [metric tons fiber]  [metric tons fiber]  
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   79 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate  Fiber Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 2 All results and figures reviewed for fiscal year 20 18 are plausible.  
 
2 Reviewed Data and Findings  
As part of this review Apple  disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:   
 Calculation methodology for the c orporate  fiber footprint  
 Sales data for FY201 8, including accessories  
 Aggregated fiber data  for all products  and t he total co rporate fiber footprint for 
the fiscal year 2018 
The methodology paper ( Fiber Footprint at Apple  - Methodology Description  - V1.1) 
provided by Apple and reviewed in 2017 , is considered a sound and appropriate guidance 
for determining the company fiber footprint. Where appropriate, this approach follows 
meth odological principles applied for state -of-the-art Life Cycle Assessments.  
This review comprises a check of packaging fiber  data for selected products (iPhone  X, 
iPhone 8 Plus, MacBook  13” Air). 
Plausibility of some data has been questioned and discussed with Apple in detail. 
Corrections were made accordingly .This review was done remotely.  All questions raised in 
the course of the review were answered by Apple.   
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the corporate 
fiber footprint  is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of fiber data and 
information .  
 
Berlin, March 22, 201 9 
  
  
- Marina Proske  -  - Karsten Schischke  - 
Fraunhofer IZM   Fraunhof er IZM  
Dept. Environmental and Dept. Environmental and  
Reliabi lity Engineering   Reliability Engineering  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   80 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate  Fiber Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 3 Reviewer Credentials and Qualification  
Marina Proske: Experience and background in the field of Life Cycle Assessments include  
 Life Cycle Assessment course and exam as part of the Environmental Engineering studies (Dipl. -Ing. 
Technischer Umweltschutz, Technische Universität Berlin, 2009)  
 Critical Reviews of LCA studies incl. water, fiber and plastic footprints since 2012 for 2 industry clients 
and of the EPEAT Environmental Benefits Calculator  
 Life Cycle Ass essment of a modular smartphone (Fairphone 2)  
 Studies on the environmental assessment and carbon footprint  of ICT  
 Studies on material and lifetime aspects within the MEErP methodology  
Further updated information at: https://de.linkedin.com/in/marina -proske -74347164/en   
 
Karsten Schischke : Experience and background in the field of Life Cycle Assessments include  
 Life Cycle Assessment course and exam as part of the Environmental Engineering studies (Dipl. -Ing. 
Technischer Umweltschutz, Technische Universität Berlin, 1999)  
 more than 100 Critical Reviews of LCA studies since 2005 (batteries, displays, mobile devices, 
networked ICT equipment, home automation devices, servers, desktop computers) for 5 different 
industry clients  and of the EPEAT Environmental Benefits Calculator  
 Coordination of and contribution to compilation of more than 100 ELCD datasets (available at 
www.lca2go.eu; product groups: hard  disk drives, semiconductors, printed circui t boards, 
photovoltaics)  
 Environmental Lifecycle Assessments following the MEEuP / MEErP methodology in several Ecodesign 
Product Group Studies under the European Ecodesign Directive since 2007 (external power supplies, 
complex settop -boxes, machine tools,  welding equipment)  
 various environmental gate -to-gate assessments in research projects since 2000 (wafer bumping, 
printed circuit board manufacturing)  
Further updated information at: www.linkedin .com/in/karsten -schischke   
 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   81 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate  Packaging Plastic  Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 1 Review Statement  
Corporate  Packaging Plastic  Footprint  
Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s c orporate  packaging plastic  footprint data related to 
corporate packaging plastic usage from product s and retail operations in fiscal year 2018.  
 
1 Summary  
This review ch ecks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product and packaging related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the 
calculated corporate annual packaging plastic  footprint of Apple products shipped in fiscal 
year 2 018 and of retail operations in the same period .  
As there is no standardised method available for calculating a packaging plastic  footprint 
Apple defined a methodology  for internal use. The scope of the plastic packaging footprint  
includes Apple’s corpora te packaging plastic  usage from products  and retail operations . 
The packaging plastic  footprint  tracks the total amount of plastic, adhesives, and ink , that 
Apple  uses in packaging. Apple  obtain s and analyses  supplier -specific data for each product 
line an d sum s up these figures for the entire  company using sell- in numbers.  The output is 
a total packag ing plastic  footprint.   
The review of the corporate annual packaging plastic  footprint has considered the 
following criteria:  
 The system boundaries are clearl y defined  
 Assumptions and estimations made are app ropriate  
 Use of supplier  data is appropriate and methodologies used are adequately 
disclosed  
Data reported by Apple is as follows:  
 Total Plastic  
2018 19,0 00 
 [metric tons plastic]  
 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   82 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate  Packaging Plastic  Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 2 The two main drivers for the plastic packaging footprint are HIPS (h igh-impact polystyrene ) 
and adhesives .  
All results and figures reviewed for fiscal year 20 18 are plausible.  
 
2 Reviewed Data and Findings  
As part of this review Apple disclosed f ollowing data to Fraunhofer IZM:   
 Calculation methodology for the c orporate  packaging plastic  footprint  
 Sales data for FY201 8, including accessories  
 Selected p roduct and supplier specific data on packaging materials  and production 
yields   
 Aggregated packag ing plastic  data for all products  and t he total co rporate  
packaging plastic  footprint for the fiscal year 2018 
The methodology paper provided by Apple ( Packaging Plastic Footprint at Apple  – 
Methodology Description  – V1.0) in 2018 , is considered a sound an d appropriate guidance 
for determining the company packaging plastic . Where appropriate, this approach follows 
methodological principles applied for state -of-the-art Life Cycle Assessments.   
This review comprises a check of packaging plastic  data for selec ted products  (iPhone  X, 
iPhone 8 Plus  MacBook  13” Air). 
Plausibility of some data has been questioned and discussed with Apple in detail. 
Corrections were made accordingly . Similarly, s cope for the packaging plastic and fibre 
footprint have been discussed . Including ink use of photobooks in future footprints is 
suggested for consistency between plastic and fibre  footprint , although t he impact on the 
overall packaging plastic footprint is expected to be low.  
This review was done remotely.  All questions rais ed in the course of the review were 
answered by Apple and related evidence was provided where needed.   
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   83 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate  Packaging Plastic  Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 3 Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the corporate 
packaging plastic  footprint  is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of 
plastic  data and information . The excellent analysis meets the principles of good scientific 
practice . 
 
Berlin, March 20, 201 9 
  
  
- Marina Proske  -  - Karsten Schischke  - 
Fraunhofer IZM   Fraunhof er IZM  
Dept. Environmental and Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering   Reliability Engineering  
 
 
 
Reviewer Credentials and Qualification  
Marina Proske: Experience and background in the field of Life Cycle Assessments include  
 Life Cycle Assessment course and exam as part of the Env ironmental Engineering studies (Dipl. -Ing. 
Technischer Umweltschutz, Technische Universität Berlin, 2009)  
 Critical Reviews of LCA studies incl. water, fiber and plastic footprints since 2012 for 2 industry clients 
and of the EPEAT Environmental Benefits Ca lculator  
 Life Cycle Assessment of a modular smartphone (Fairphone 2)  
 Studies on the environmental assessment and carbon footprint  of ICT  
 Studies on material and lifetime aspects within the MEErP methodology  
Further updated information at: https://de.linkedin.com/in/marina -proske -74347164/en   
 
Karsten Schischke : Experience and background in the field of Life Cycle Assessments include  
 Life Cycle Assessment course and exam as part of the Env ironmental Engineering studies (Dipl. -Ing. 
Technischer Umweltschutz, Technische Universität Berlin, 1999)  
 more than 100 Critical Reviews of LCA studies since 2005 (batteries, displays, mobile devices, 
networked ICT equipment, home automation devices, serve rs, desktop computers) for 5 different 
industry clients  and of the EPEAT Environmental Benefits Calculator  
 Coordination of and contribution to compilation of more than 100 ELCD datasets (available at 
www.lca2go.eu; product groups: hard  disk drives, semicon ductors, printed circuit boards, 
photovoltaics)  
 Environmental Lifecycle Assessments following the MEEuP / MEErP methodology in several Ecodesign 
Product Group Studies under the European Ecodesign Directive since 2007 (external power supplies, 
complex setto p-boxes, machine tools, welding equipment)  
 various environmental gate -to-gate assessments in research projects since 2000 (wafer bumping, 
printed circuit board manufacturing)  
Further updated information at: www.linkedin.com/in/karsten -schischke    
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   84 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherAppendix D
Environmental Health and Safety 
Policy Statement 
Mission Statement 
Apple Inc. is committed to protecting the environment, health, and safety of our employees, 
customers, and the global communities where we operate. 
We recognize that by integrating sound environmental, health, and safety management 
practices into all aspects of our business, we can offer technologically innovative products and 
services while conserving and enhancing resources for future generations. 
Apple strives for continuous improvement in our environmental, health and safety management 
systems and in the environmental quality of our products, processes, and services. 
Guiding Principles 
Meet or exceed all applicable environmental, health and safety requirements. We will evaluate 
our EHS performance by monitoring ongoing performance results and through periodic 
management reviews. 
Where laws and regulations do not provide adequate controls, we will adopt our own standards 
to protect human health and the environment. 
Support and promote sound scientific principles and fiscally responsible public policy that 
enhance environmental quality, health and safety. 
Advocate the adoption of prudent environmental, health and safety principles and practices by 
our contractors, vendors, and suppliers. 
Communicate environmental, health, and safety policies and programs to Apple employees 
and stakeholders. 
Design, manage and operate our facilities to maximize safety, promote energy efficiency, and 
protect the environment. 
Strive to create products that are safe in their intended use, conserve energy and materials, 
and prevent pollution throughout the product life cycle including design, manufacture, use, and 
end-of-life management. 
Ensure that all employees are aware of their role and responsibility to fulfill and sustain Apple’s 
environmental, health and safety management systems and policy. 
 
Luca Maestri Senior Vice President and CFO  
January 2019
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   85 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better TogetherReport Notes
• This report is published annually in April and covers fiscal year 2018 activities, unless otherwise noted.
•  This report addresses environmental impacts and activities at Apple-owned facilities (corporate offices, data centers, and  
retail stores), as well as the life cycle impacts of our products, including in the manufacturing, transportation, use, and  
end-of-life phases.
• To provide feedback on this report, please contact environment-report@apple.com.
1  Recycled content claims for materials in our products have been verified by an independent third party to a recycled content 
standard that conforms to ISO 14021. 
2   Responsible sourcing of wood fiber is defined in Apple’s Sustainable Fiber Specification (PDF) . We consider wood fibers to  
include bamboo. 
3   Apple defines its restrictions on harmful substances, including definitions for what Apple considers to be “free of,” in the Apple 
Regulated Substances Specification. Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates with the exception of AC power cords 
in India, Thailand, and South Korea, where we continue to seek government approval for our PVC and phthalates replacements. 
While Apple’s phaseout covers the vast majority of products and components, products by Beddit, which Apple recently acquired, 
and some older Apple product designs may not be fully BFR -free and PVC -free. Apple products comply with the European Union 
Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including exemptions for the use of lead such as high-temperature solder. Apple is 
working to phase out the use of these exempted substances where technically possible.
4  Based on sales-weighted averages.
5   Emissions from corporate facilities increased by one percentage point in 2018, due to a reduced overall carbon footprint and to 
changes to how we calculate air travel, which significantly increased Scope 3 business travel emissions.
6   The CPU, SoC, DRAM, and memory (NAND) make up the bulk of the integrated circuit emissions. 
7   “Boards and flexes” refers to bare printed circuit boards and flexible printed circuits. 
8  Integrated circuits, aluminum, bare boards and flexes, display, onboard electronics, steel, and final assembly facilities make up  
93 percent of manufacturing emissions. The remaining 7 percent (“other manufacturing”) includes battery cells, other materials (such 
as copper), plastic, packaging, glass, and miscellaneous upstream transportation. These are listed in order of their contribution. 
9   “Electronics” includes capacitors, resistors, transistors, diodes, and other electronic components soldered to bare board and 
flexes, other than the integrated circuits. 
10   iOS active charge: active charging of the battery for iOS devices.
11   macOS active: active use of macOS devices. 
12   macOS idle: macOS devices that are awake, but non-active.
13   other: all other modes and devices.
14   Greenhouse gas equivalencies calculated using the U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator: www.epa.gov/energy/
greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator .
15  Compared to a conventional, single-converter power supply design. iMac Pro incorporates a high-efficiency, dual-converter 
power supply design.
16  Recycling enables use of recovered materials instead of mined materials, thus conserving finite resources. Recycled content 
claims for materials in our products have been verified by an independent third party to a recycled content standard that conforms 
to ISO 14021.
17  Apple is committed to the responsible sourcing of materials for our products. In 2018, our efforts to responsibly source cobalt 
continued, and 100 percent of identified refiners participated in third-party audits, for the third year in a row. Our independent 
third-party audits go beyond conflict to consider human rights and other risks.
18  In 2018, 100 percent of tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold smelters and refiners participated in a third-party audit program. 
Download Apple’s Conflict Minerals Report (PDF) .
19  Testing conducted by Apple in May 2018 using iPhone 6 Plus supporting normal peak performance, prerelease iOS 11.4, and 
prerelease iOS 12. Keyboard tested using Safari; Camera tested by swiping from the Lock screen. Performance varies based on 
specific configuration, content, battery health, usage, software versions, and other factors.
20  When we receive your device, it will be thoroughly inspected to determine if it can be reused or recycled. Recycling recovers a 
portion of the product materials. 
21  Countries are defined as those in which we have an Apple Retail Store, Apple Online Store, or Apple Premium Reseller.
22  For more details on FSC Controlled Wood standards, see Forest Stewardship Council, “FSC Controlled Wood,” 2017.  
https://ic.fsc.org/en/what-is-fsc-certification/controlled-wood .
23  Based on expected equivalent fiber production from our forestry projects and virgin fiber used for Apple product packaging. 
To determine the output of Apple’s projects, we work with our partners to understand the productive potential of these working 
forests. The forest management plans required to achieve or maintain certification limit harvest volumes to sustainable levels.  
We use these potential harvest volumes to estimate the sustainable productive capacity of these forests.
24  Our target is for waste reduction by weight, from a baseline of fiscal year 2018. We consider ongoing operations and renovations 
within this boundary but not new construction.
25  Final assembly supplier sites are third-party certified as Zero Waste by UL LLC (UL 2799 Standard). For all platinum certified final 
assembly sites, this means that they do not generate any waste sent to landfill. In two cases, assembly facilities were certified 
Gold with a maximum of 5 percent waste to landfill because the carbon impact of shipping materials for recycling outweighed the 
environmental benefit of diversion.
26  Our early efforts to footprint our water use show that vast majority of non-electricity related water withdrawals are related to 
our supply chain. We are working to expand our understanding of our non-electricity water use so that we can build a more 
comprehensive water footprint. Our best estimates to isolate process water withdrawals helps us prioritize our work in the supply 
chain to sub-assembly and commodity suppliers like those that build our semiconductors, displays, and enclosures.
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   86 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together27  Apple products are free of PVC and phthalates with the exception of power cords in India, Thailand, and South Korea, where we 
continue to seek government approval for our PVC and phthalates replacement. While Apple’s phaseout covers the vast majority 
of products and components, products by Beddit, which Apple recently acquired, and some older Apple product designs may not 
be fully BFR -free and PVC -free.
28   Apple products comply with the European Union Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including exemptions for the use of 
lead such as high temperature solder. Apple is working to phase out the use of these exempted substances where technically 
possible. 
29   Arsenic is present in minuscule quantities in some semiconductor devices.
30   While Apple’s phaseout covers the vast majority of products and components, products by Beddit, which Apple recently acquired, 
and some older Apple product designs may not be fully BFR -free and PVC -free.
31   Only chemicals that meet GreenScreen® benchmark 3 and 4 are considered safer and preferred for use.
© 2019 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, AirPort, AirPort Express, AirPort Extreme, Apple TV, Apple Watch, 
FaceTime, iMac, iPad, iPad Pro, iPhone, iPod, Mac, iMac Pro, Mac Pro, MacBook, MacBook Pro, Mac mini, macOS, Retina, Taptic 
Engine and watchOS are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. HomePod is a trademark of Apple 
Inc. AppleCare and Apple Store are service marks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Beats is a trademark of 
Beats Electronics, LLC., registered in the U.S. and other countries. IOS is a trademark or registered trademark of Cisco in the U.S. 
and other countries and is used under license. ENERGY STAR and the ENERGY STAR mark are registered trademarks owned by the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective 
companies. April 2019. 
2019 Environmental Responsibility Report   87 Introduction Climate Change Smarter Chemistry Resources Better Together