2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCONTENTS
Sustainability Overview ........................................................... 1
Our Business ............................................................................... 3
Corporate Governance .............................................................. 4
Sustainability at Abbott ............................................................. 8
Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals ................... 15
COVID-19: Meeting a Global Health Challenge .................. 18
Section 1: Promoting Ethics and Integrity .......................... 22
Integrity in All That We Do ..................................................... 24
Governance ............................................................................... 24
Our Compliance Program ....................................................... 25
Combating Corruption and Bribery ....................................... 29
Section 2: Ensuring Quality and Safety .............................. 30
Delivering Quality and Safety   ............................................... 32
Governance  .............................................................................. 32
Management Approach ........................................................... 33
Performance Updates .............................................................. 37
Security and Brand Protection ............................................... 39
Cybersecurity ........................................................................... 42
Section 3: Supporting Communities ................................... 43
Improving Access to Healthcare ............................................. 45
Management Approach ........................................................... 45
Shared Impact ........................................................................... 46
Making a Positive Impact: Community Outreach ...............  48
Engaging Employees and Communities ................................  48Section 4: Valuing Our People .............................................. 51
Developing Talented People  ................................................... 53
Governance ............................................................................... 54
Our Workplace Environment .................................................. 54
Talent Management Approach ................................................ 55
Diversity and Inclusion ............................................................. 58
Compensation and Benefits .................................................... 60
Listening to Our Employees .................................................... 61
Employee Health, Safety and Wellness ................................. 63
Section 5: Safeguarding Our Environment ......................... 69
Protecting a Healthy Environment   ....................................... 71
Governance  ............................................................................... 71
Strategy ..................................................................................... 72
Managing Climate Risks and Opportunities .......................... 75
Reducing Energy and Emissions  ............................................ 78
Protecting Water Resources  .................................................. 83
Extended Producer Responsibility ......................................... 89
Holistic Approach to Reduce Operational Waste ................ 90
Sustainable Life Cycles With Products and Packaging ......... 95
Environmental Investment and Compliance ......................... 97
Section 6: Strengthening Our Supply Chain ...................... 98
Sustainability in a Resilient Supply Chain   .......................... 100
Governance  ............................................................................ 100
Management Approach .......................................................... 101
Performance Updates ............................................................ 104 Section 7: Reporting on Sustainability .............................. 109
Key Financial Metrics   ........................................................... 113
Key Social Metrics   ................................................................ 114
Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions and Energy   ....117
Key Environmental Metrics — Water  ................................ 127
Key Environmental Metrics — Waste ............................. 130
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Fines, 
Notices and Inspections ............................................ 136
Metrics Endnotes ............................................................... 137
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFront Cover: Jomi Babatunde-Omoya
Jomi Babatunde-Omoya, a 16-year-old Abbott biomedical 
engineering intern, realized she could follow her passions in 
math and science. Learn more about Jomi on page 138.   
For more information about our STEM Internship Blueprint, 
see the Valuing Our People section on page 51.
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
DEAR ABBOTT STAKEHOLDER,
If there’s one thing that this extraordinary year has made very clear, it’s how closely interconnected 
we all are — around the world and across society. The idea of sustainability — of how we build better 
systems to support the long-term welfare of our society and our planet — has rarely been brought to 
public life and discourse with such power and urgency.
Our company exists to help people live their fullest lives. Implicit in this purpose is the recognition 
that all people — all people — deserve the opportunity to thrive. To us at Abbott, that means health — 
primarily the better physical health that we help people achieve through our products and technologies. 
But we recognize that thriving requires health in multiple dimensions. Environmental degradation  
is a public health challenge. Racial inequity is a public health challenge. Social disparity is a public 
health challenge. And we’re dedicated to addressing needs at all of these levels.
In our core mission of creating life-changing healthcare technologies, we’ve risen to the challenges  
of this year. Thus far, Abbott has produced five different tests to help in the fight against COVID-19, 
and our work on this urgent need continues. At the same time, we’ve continued to advance our work 
in the other critical areas of healthcare in which we have technological leadership, such as diabetes 
and heart disease. And we’re committed to designing new products for maximum affordability and 
accessibility for the people who need them.  
In terms of environmental health, we continue to work to reduce our impact through improvements 
in water use, packaging, waste generation and emissions. And in terms of social and health equity, 
we’re working in partnership with communities and governments around the world to improve 
access to health information and care through programs such as the rural health center model we’ve 
established with the government of Rwanda and our Future WellTM programs, which address social 
determinants of health and help educate kids about noncommunicable diseases and how to decrease 
their chances of getting them. Our 2030 Sustainability Plan, which we’re introducing later this year, 
will lay out our goals and efforts across these areas at greater length.
At the foundation of our work and our culture at Abbott is the recognition that all our lives are 
intertwined and that we have commitments to one another. That understanding gives us purpose  
and makes us stronger. Thank you for your interest in the work that purpose inspires.
Best regards,
ROBERT B. FORD
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERFROM OUR PRESIDENT AND CEO
SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
Our Business .......................................................................... 3
Corporate Governance ......................................................... 4
Sustainability at Abbott ........................................................ 8
Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals ............. 15
COVID-19: Meeting a Global Health Challenge ............ 18ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
COVID-19 TESTING
REVEALING  
A NEW NORMAL
The coronavirus revealed to the world a new 
normal. The virus spread quickly and caught 
the world off guard. In this new normal, where 
we can produce millions of COVID-19 tests 
per month — many of which are designed to 
give results in minutes instead of days — it 
doesn’t seem like enough. Getting resources 
and tests into the hands of the people who 
need them has been critical to fighting this 
evolving threat. We have a saying, “We make 
our products as if they were for our own 
families.” Everything that we have done up  
to this point is for this moment: to create  
a healthier world. That is why we do what  
we do.40  
MILLION  
TESTS
DELIVERED TO 85 COUNTRIES  
AS OF JULY 2020> m2000® RealTim e SYSTEM
Our m2000® RealTime system, found in 
healthcare systems across the United States, 
increases the volume of COVID-19 testing.3          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOUR BUSINESS
Abbott is a global company with a straightforward 
purpose: We help people live more fully with  
life-changing health technologies and products. With 
leadership positions in every market we serve, Abbott is 
prepared for continued above-market growth and 
consistently strong shareholder returns.
•  Our nutrition products build and maintain health at 
every stage of life.
•  Our diagnostic solutions provide the information to 
guide effective treatment decisions. 
•  Our branded generic medicines help people get and  
stay healthy.
•  Our medical devices use the most advanced technologies 
to keep hearts and arteries healthy, to treat chronic  
pain and movement disorders, and to give people with 
diabetes more freedom and less pain. 
In each of these four core businesses, we innovate early, 
moving quickly to address developing health needs. Our 
ability to respond in this way ultimately depends upon  
our sustainability as a business. For Abbott, sustainability 
includes operating ethically and responsibly, ensuring 
quality and safety, valuing our people, building a resilient 
supply chain, delivering results for our shareholders,  
and being there for the people we serve.Our core values of Pioneering, Achieving, Caring and 
Enduring are the foundation of our identity as a company. 
They define how we do our work and serve our stakeholders. 
Aligning our organization around this cohesive set of 
values is critical to the fulfillment of our mission and the 
achievement of our business goals.
•  Pioneering: Bringing life-changing health technologies 
to the people who need them
•  Achieving: Delivering customer-focused outcomes  
and world-class execution
•  Caring: Helping people live fuller lives through  
better health
•  Enduring: Managing the company to ensure its  
long-term success
In this report, we share our progress in delivering 
sustainable and responsible growth that improves lives 
and creates value in communities around the world.$31.9 BILLION  
NET SALES 
WORLDWIDE
$2.4 BILLION INVESTED IN  
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT$2.2 BILLION RETURNED 
IN DIVIDENDS TO 
SHAREHOLDERS
NEARLY $71 MILLION  
INVESTED IN COMMUNITIES$ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT4          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWCORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Abbott is committed to strong corporate governance  
that is aligned with our stakeholders’ interests. Abbott’s 
Board of Directors spends significant time with the 
company’s senior management to understand dynamics, 
issues and opportunities for Abbott. During these 
interactions, directors provide insights and ask probing 
questions that guide our management’s decision-making. 
This collaborative approach to risk oversight and emphasis 
on long-term sustainability is ingrained in our culture.  
The Board also regularly monitors leading practices in 
governance and adopts measures that it determines are  
in the best interest of Abbott and our stakeholders.
Board Leadership
Abbott’s Board of Directors consists of our Executive 
Chairman, Miles D. White, our President and CEO,  
Robert B. Ford, and 12 independent directors.
In November 2019, Abbott announced that Mr. White 
would step down as Chief Executive Officer on  
March 31, 2020, after a remarkable 21-year tenure.  
The Board of Directors appointed Mr. Ford, Abbott’s 
then-President and Chief Operating Officer and 24-year 
Abbott veteran, to succeed Mr. White as Chief Executive 
Officer. Mr. White remains Executive Chairman of the 
Board. With this transition, Mr. Ford became the 13th  
CEO of Abbott in our 131-year history, all having been appointed from within the company. This is a testament  
to Abbott’s strong management philosophy and succession- 
planning discipline. 
The Board is actively involved in succession planning and 
is focused on ensuring leadership continuity. The Board 
believes that the continuation of Mr. White’s service as 
Executive Chairman is facilitating a successful leadership 
transition and is in the best interests of Abbott and our 
stakeholders. 
The Board also has a Lead Independent Director. Currently, 
the Chair of the Nominations and Governance Committee, 
William A. Osborn, is the Lead Independent Director.  
As Lead Independent Director, Mr. Osborn has distinct 
responsibilities, which include liaising between the 
Executive Chairman and independent directors, consulting 
and engaging directly with major shareholders, authority 
to call meetings of independent directors, reviewing matters 
such as meeting topics and schedules, and presiding over 
executive sessions of independent directors at each regularly 
scheduled Board meeting. The Lead Independent Director 
is elected annually by the independent directors. The Board reviews its leadership structure on at least an 
annual basis. The Board has determined that this leadership 
structure ensures the appropriate level of oversight, 
independence and responsibility is applied to all Board 
decisions, including risk oversight. 
0–5 YEARS 
5 DIRECTORS
6–10 YEARS 
4 DIRECTORS
11+ YEARS  
5 DIRECTORS9-YEAR
AVERAGE  
TENUREABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT5          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWBoard Composition and Diversity
In the process of identifying nominees to serve as 
members of the Board of Directors, the Nominations  
and Governance Committee considers the Board’s 
diversity of relevant experience, areas of expertise, 
ethnicity, gender and geography and assesses the  
effectiveness of the process in achieving that diversity. 
The process used to identify and select nominees has 
resulted in a balanced, diverse and well-rounded Board  
of Directors that possesses the skills, experiences and 
perspectives necessary for its oversight role. Six of the 14 directors are women or minorities. Five new 
directors have been appointed since 2017 , two of whom 
are women or minorities. The Board’s diversity ensures 
the company’s thinking is informed by a wide range of 
perspectives. It is part of a commitment to diversity that 
applies to every level of our company. Thirty-nine percent 
of Abbott’s management positions were filled by women  
in 2019, and the company was named one of the year’s Top 
Companies for Executive Women and one of the Top 50 
Companies for Diversity for the 16th time. In 2019, the 
2020 Women on Boards campaign again recognized 
Abbott as a leader for our efforts to increase women’s 
participation on corporate boards to 20 percent by 2020. 
Abbott has exceeded this target since 2010.
To learn more about our Board members’ experience and 
qualifications, visit the Governance section of our website .DIVERSITY OF BOARD EXPERIENCES
• Healthcare and Medical Device Industry
• Finance
• Risk Management, Including Data/Cybersecurity
• Global Strategy and Operations
• Regulatory/Compliance
• Consumer Products
•  Senior Leadership With Multinational Corporations and  
Diverse Business Models
• Global Supply Chain Operations
• Government and Military Leadership43%
WOMEN OR  
MINORITY  
DIRECTORS
5 NEW DIRECTORS SINCE 2017,  
2 OF WHOM ARE WOMEN OR MINORITIES6          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTBoard Committees
The Board has four key committees: Audit, Compensation, 
Nominations and Governance, and Public Policy. Each of 
these Board committees is fully independent.
•  Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors in 
fulfilling its oversight responsibility with respect to 
Abbott’s accounting and financial reporting practices 
and the audit process; the quality and integrity of 
Abbott’s financial statements; the independent auditors’ 
qualifications, independence and performance; the 
performance of Abbott’s internal audit function and 
internal auditors; certain areas of legal and regulatory 
compliance; and enterprise risk management (ERM), 
including major financial and cybersecurity risk 
exposures. Each year, the committee receives a full 
report from our ERM leadership and discusses the topic 
at both the committee and Board levels. To learn more 
about Abbott’s approach to ERM, see page 10.•  Compensation Committee assists the Board of 
Directors in carrying out the Board’s responsibilities 
relating to the compensation of Abbott’s executive 
officers and directors; annually reviews the compensation 
paid to the members of the Board and gives its  
recommendations to the full Board regarding both  
the amount of director compensation that should be  
paid and the allocation of that compensation between 
equity-based awards and cash; reviews, approves and 
administers the incentive compensation plans in which 
any executive officer of Abbott participates and all of 
Abbott’s equity-based plans; and engages compensation 
consultants to provide counsel and advice on executive 
and nonemployee director compensation matters.
•  Nominations and Governance Committee assists  
the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight  
responsibility with respect to governance matters, 
including helping the Board identify individuals 
qualified to become Board members and executive 
officers of Abbott; develops and recommends to the 
Board the corporate governance guidelines applicable  
to Abbott; and serves in an advisory capacity to the  
Board and the Chairman of the Board on matters of 
organization, management succession plans, major 
changes in the organizational structure of Abbott and 
the conduct of Board activities.•  Public Policy Committee assists the Board of Directors 
in fulfilling its oversight responsibility with respect  
to certain areas of legal and regulatory compliance; 
government affairs; and healthcare compliance issues 
that affect Abbott, sustainability and citizenship, and 
Abbott’s public policy.
A full description of the functions carried out by each 
Board committee is available in the Governance section  
of our website .7          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWBoard Evaluation
Each year, Abbott’s directors evaluate the effectiveness  
of the Board and its committees in performing their  
governance and risk oversight responsibilities. Directors 
assess the performance of their peers, as well as the full 
Board of Directors and each of the committees on which 
they serve, as shown at right.
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPEER, BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATIONS
Written evaluations solicit feedback on the performance of:  
Each individual director, including:
• Independent thinking and action
• Contributions to discussions and decisions
• Ethical standards and values
•  Professional competence in matters of oversight  
and governanceThe full Board and Board committees, including:
• Structure and composition
• Effectiveness of oversight and other responsibilities
•  Encouragement of open communication and  
differing viewpoints
 COLLECTION AND REVIEW OF RESULTS
To ensure candid feedback, directors submit their evaluation responses to an independent third party, which anonymizes 
all responses and compiles them into reports for the Board and committees.
The Nominations and Governance Committee reviews the peer and full Board reports, and each committee reviews 
its respective report. All evaluation responses are shared with the full Board.
INCORPORATION OF FEEDBACK
Feedback requiring additional consideration is addressed at subsequent Board and committee meetings, and  
opportunities for additional enhancements are identified, considered and implemented, as appropriate.
The Chair of the Nominations and Governance Committee discusses peer evaluation results with individual  
directors, as needed.8          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSUSTAINABILITY AT ABBOTT
Abbott’s approach to sustainability starts with the people
we serve and our purpose to help people live better and
healthier. We achieve this through the way we operate
and by innovating life-changing technologies and products. 
We aim to deliver sustainable, responsible growth that 
improves lives and creates value in communities around 
the world. 
We believe that sustainability is built on systems thinking, 
collaboration and applying our unique strengths. The 
following principles inform our approach and help 
amplify the inherently positive social impact that a 
healthcare business, such as ours, should have:
•  We drive a system of governance that puts sustainability 
at the heart of our business. From Research and  
Development (R&D) to Supply Chain, Manufacturing 
Operations and Product Marketing, we manage our 
environmental, social and governance impacts to 
maximize efficiency and effectiveness.
•  We recognize that the healthcare environment is 
complex and interconnected. We invest in understanding 
the changing needs of different countries and cultures 
and the impact of a changing external and operating 
environment. By identifying the most material issues for 
our business and the developing needs of the people we 
serve, we can make purposeful, intentional decisions 
about how best to position our business for the future.•  We build together by listening to the stakeholders most 
impacted by our products. We work with patients, 
consumers, healthcare practitioners, caretakers, external 
partners and suppliers to deliver sustainable impact.
•  We apply our unique strengths as a business in a focused 
way by identifying and investing in the most impactful, 
life-changing innovations, evolving our business to meet 
emerging healthcare needs, and finding measurable ways 
to address social challenges through our scientific and 
technical expertise.
“Sustainability is embedded  
into everything we do at Abbott, 
even in the most challenging 
circumstances. Inspired by our 
values, we think and act long 
term, which informs how we 
develop partnerships, conduct 
business and deliver healthcare.” 
MELISSA BROTZ
VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF MARKETING  
AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS OFFICERABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT9          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWSustainability Governance
Abbott’s commitment to sustainable business starts  
at the top of our organization and is integrated across  
the company:
•  Our Board of Directors and senior management lead  
our sustainability activities. The Board’s Public Policy 
Committee is responsible for reviewing and evaluating 
our policies and practices regarding corporate  
responsibility.
•  Our Global Citizenship Advisory Council (GCAC), a 
group of independent expert advisors and thought 
leaders in the area of sustainability, provides Abbott  
with guidance on strategic sustainability issues. This 
includes identifying risk and opportunities across our 
organization. The GCAC members include:
–  Margaret Flaherty, Senior Advisor, FSG, and Professor, 
Business School Lausanne
–  David Logan, Co-Founding Director, Corporate 
Citizenship
–  Jane Nelson, Senior Fellow and Director, CSR Initiatives, 
Harvard Kennedy School
–  David Vidal, Emeritus Fellow, The Conference Board•   Abbott’s Global Sustainability team works with colleagues 
across our global enterprise to implement our  
sustainability strategy, working with our four businesses, 
key functional areas and affiliates around the world. The 
Global Sustainability team reports to our Vice President 
and Chief Marketing and External Affairs Officer, who 
reports directly to our President and CEO.
•  The Global Operations Council (GOC) oversees execution 
of the strategy for all Abbott operations (Manufacturing; 
Supply Chain; Engineering; and Environment, Health 
and Safety), leveraging internal assessment, risk profiles 
and industry best practices to continuously improve 
Abbott’s performance. The council is chaired by our 
Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory 
and Engineering Services, and includes three corporate 
officers and 26 divisional vice presidents, representing 
division and corporate operations. For more information 
on our management of operational sustainability, see  
the Safeguarding Our Environment, Strengthening  
Our Supply Chain and Valuing Our People sections  
of this report.•  Abbott’s cross-functional Sustainability Working Group 
leads the integration of sustainability within our business 
and oversees Abbott’s reporting of environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) performance. The team includes 
representatives from Global Environment, Health and 
Safety; Ethics and Compliance; Quality and Regulatory 
Affairs; Cybersecurity; Human Resources; Supply Chain; 
Legal; Corporate Governance; Research and Development; 
Investor Relations; External Public Affairs; Government 
Affairs; Corporate Purchasing; and Commercial Operations. 
It also includes representatives from our affiliate 
operations in key markets around the world.
•  Several of our global affiliates have formed their own 
local cross-functional sustainability working groups, 
which embed responsible business practices and drive 
stakeholder engagement initiatives tailored to  
local needs.Our commitment to sustainable business starts with 
the Board of Directors and senior management and 
is integrated throughout our global enterprise.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT10          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWManaging Sustainability Risks and Opportunities
Our sustainability strategy reflects changing healthcare 
needs, emerging challenges and priorities, as well as the 
changing nature of Abbott’s business. Our enterprise risk 
management (ERM) process focuses on risks that have  
the capacity to impact our business performance. Our 
analysis of materiality broadens our perspective to consider 
all our stakeholders’ expectations of a sustainable  
business and the risks and opportunities that relate  
to meeting those expectations.
Enterprise Risk Management
Our ERM process is designed to evaluate risks on a 
consistent basis, measuring likelihood, impact and velocity 
to ensure the largest risks to Abbott have the appropriate 
focus and attention of our management team. In late 2017 , 
we formed a new ERM network team with eight functional 
experts, led by Abbott’s Vice President, Internal Audit, a 
corporate officer. The network brings additional structure 
and consistency to risk evaluation and works to integrate 
ERM within our business. This group engages with a 
number of stakeholders who are subject-matter experts  
on various enterprise risks, helping to identify additional 
mitigating actions that may be required to ensure risk 
management keeps pace with business strategy. Abbott’s 
Vice President, Internal Audit, presents an overall ERM 
update to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors 
once a year and completes detailed reviews of specific 
enterprise risks with the Board of Directors or its  
committees throughout the year.Emerging Risk — Disruptive Technologies
The role of technology has never been more important in 
healthcare. Technology is advancing at a pace we have not 
seen before and is fast becoming a natural part of how we 
manage our health. We see a near future in which implantables, 
wearables and diagnostics data, powered by artificial 
intelligence (AI), come together seamlessly, altering how 
people manage healthcare in an increasingly self-directed way. 
These trends create the potential for new entrants to 
disrupt the diagnostics industry and restate the competitive 
landscape. Devices and applications that aid in prevention, 
early stage detection and management of health issues are 
becoming prolific. Consumer access to data and products 
that are highly tailored to individuals and their needs not 
only allows people to have a larger say in the management 
of their health, but it also can result in faster, more accurate 
diagnoses and better compliance with treatment plans.
Technology leaders, such as Apple, Amazon and Google,  
all have announced initiatives that are disrupting the 
traditional healthcare business model and allowing 
consumers to leverage technology to self-diagnose before 
seeking traditional healthcare providers.
As patient-driven healthcare expands and the use of 
direct-to-consumer devices for managing health increases, 
Abbott, as well as other healthcare companies, is evolving 
some traditional products and services to meet changing 
customer needs. Our products must keep pace with these 
expectations. Additionally, our industry must be faster  
at bringing to market emerging technologies in order to 
maintain leadership and growth amidst the backdrop of 
nontraditional technology competitors with strong 
consumer engagement. To remain competitive, we need to continue innovating 
new technologies that are science-driven, consumer- 
friendly and relevant in the changing model of healthcare. 
We benchmark ourselves against both technology and 
health companies. We’re focused on innovations in health 
that fit easily into a person’s life.
One focus of ours is on connected sensor technology and 
smaller, less-invasive devices that have the potential to 
replace medicines as the first or only line of defense. For 
people with diabetes, for example, our FreeStyle Libre® 
continuous glucose monitoring system uses a sensor that 
can be scanned using a smartphone. This lets patients 
track glucose levels without sticking their fingers. Our 
insertable cardiac monitor — the size of a paperclip, 
inserted just below the skin in the chest through a quick 
outpatient procedure — monitors heart rate and rhythm 
and connects people with their doctors to more accurately 
detect and diagnose irregular heartbeats. 
The changing landscape of healthcare poses new  
opportunities, as traditional healthcare and technology 
companies work to improve care for patients. Increased 
collaboration may be the key to success. We believe 
technology companies can learn much from the healthcare 
industry and vice versa. By combining our collective 
expertise and perspectives, we can put the right technologies 
together with the right sets of data to improve patient 
health and safety, decrease medical errors, protect patient 
data and privacy, and ultimately, improve the quality of 
healthcare delivery. ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT11          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWImpact of Pandemics
As a global healthcare company, public health crises, such 
as the widespread outbreak of infectious diseases, may 
negatively impact our operations. Disease outbreak has 
become increasingly more common due to population 
growth, globalization and international travel, as well as 
the growing interconnection between human, animal and 
environmental health. Trends such as climate change and 
deforestation act as risk multipliers, driving an increased 
risk of future pandemics while heightening uncertainty  
as to the location, type and severity of future outbreaks. 
Health concerns and significant changes in political or 
economic conditions caused by such outbreaks can lead  
to significant reductions in demand for routine diagnostic 
testing and medical device procedures or disrupt  
manufacturing and supply chains, negatively affecting  
our operations, as well as the operations of our suppliers, 
distributors and other third-party partners. 
Furthermore, such widespread outbreaks may impact  
the broader economies of affected countries, including 
negatively impacting economic growth, financial and 
capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, and 
interest rates. Depending on the severity of the health 
crisis, all of these factors have the potential to disrupt  
our operations, employees, customers, patients and the 
communities we serve.
Abbott’s mitigation approach for disruptive events, such as 
a global pandemic, is both tactical and strategic. Our global 
Executive Crisis Management Team (ECMT) coordinates 
our comprehensive emergency preparedness and business 
continuity plans across our global businesses.Our ECMT is a cross-functional group of leaders  
representing key areas of global business operations and 
corporate support functions to ensure complete and 
efficient decision-making and facilitate consistent 
guidance, communications and support throughout the 
world. We continuously monitor suppliers, logistics and 
distribution channels to ensure minimal disruption to our 
business, and we have comprehensive pandemic response 
plans in place for all manufacturing and distribution sites. 
As part of our pandemic planning, we also evaluate and 
engage key logistics suppliers to ensure continuity of 
supply from our distribution centers to our customers. 
In addition to our response capabilities, we have mitigated 
pandemic risk through our business and geographic 
diversification. Our four business groups and 10-plus 
business units are impacted differently in the event of  
a pandemic.
From a demand perspective, pandemics may impact 
businesses, countries or regions at different times  
and to varying degrees. For example, elective surgical 
procedures may decline in some regions while demand  
for nutritional products may increase during the same 
time. Our sales presence in more than 150 countries,  
with no country making up a disproportionate share of 
revenues, also provides insulation from a localized 
demand shock. In addition, from a supply perspective, 
Abbott’s network of 92 owned manufacturing plants in 
more than 25 countries — plus many more third-party 
manufacturers — ensures that localized disruptions are 
unlikely to materially impact our ability to supply our critical 
products to the patients and consumers who need them.Our diagnostic capabilities also play a critical role in 
pandemic response. Abbott has long been a leader in 
infectious disease testing, including the development of 
the first HIV test in 1985. Additionally, we recognize that 
addressing a pandemic requires different diagnostic 
solutions for the different stages of infection and recovery 
(as well as maximizing the venues available for testing).
In the case of the COVID-19 pandemic, we leveraged our 
unique scientific capabilities to quickly develop diagnostic 
tests for the virus that could help protect frontline 
healthcare providers, first responders and employees of 
companies providing essential services (including Abbott)
and facilitate an eventual return to normal economic 
activity around the world. We assembled four discrete 
teams of research and development (R&D) experts to 
focus on five different types of tests for COVID-19: two 
molecular lab tests, a molecular point-of-care test and  
two serology tests.
Working together with regulators, we were able to create, 
launch and scale up manufacturing for five different tests 
across our technology platforms, and we were able to 
deliver those solutions in an unprecedented time frame.
The course of any global pandemic is unpredictable, as  
the world has seen during the COVID-19 crisis. We have 
the experience, track record and scientific expertise to  
not only successfully manage business disruption but  
also participate as a major contributor to combating the 
spread of a global pandemic.
 ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT12          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWDeveloping a Sustainability Strategy  
Based on Materiality
Abbott takes a deliberate approach to shaping our 
business to reflect changing healthcare needs and 
opportunities. An important element in moving our 
company forward involves the development of a new 
sustainability strategy to reflect the way our business  
and the external environment are evolving. 
In late 2018, our executive management team launched  
an in-depth materiality analysis of the most important 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues for our 
business as the basis for developing a new sustainability 
strategy. We partnered with an external consultancy, 
Corporate Citizenship, to develop and conduct a robust 
five-stage materiality process:
1.  We conducted extensive research on potential  
issues that included engaging ratings and rankings 
organizations, customers, peers and competitors; 
tracking emerging issues; and consulting best practices 
from across different industries.
2.  Abbott’s executive leadership team, which represents 
all of Abbott’s divisions and corporate functions, met 
several times and then convened to prioritize the 17 ESG 
topics that should inform our strategy over the next  
5–10 years.3.  We conducted more than 40 hours of interviews with  
57 internal and external stakeholders to refine these 
topics down to seven areas of focus.
4.  We convened working groups for each priority issue 
and engaged with our Finance and Corporate Audit 
teams to ensure our priorities and targets are integrated 
with Abbott’s business strategy and financial plan.
5.  We held an all-day summit with 90 working group 
members and our executive management team, which 
helped to define our 2030 goals, targets and key 
performance indicators (KPIs), which will drive 
Abbott’s future competitiveness.
Through this process, we have identified 17 priority ESG 
issues with the greatest significance for Abbott in terms  
of long-term value, risk and opportunity.TIER 1
• Innovation
• Data and Data Privacy
• Access and Affordability
• Talent
• Government and Regulation
• Product Quality and Safety
TIER 2
• Supply Chain (Including Packaging and Waste)
• Ethics and Compliance
• Cybersecurity
• Corporate Governance
• Climate Change (Including Water)
• Transparency and Reporting
TIER 3
• Executive Compensation
• Human Rights
• Antimicrobial Resistance
• Animal Welfare
• Clinical Trial TransparencyABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT13          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWEngaging Stakeholders
Abbott is an active participant in the global dialogue on 
health and the broader role of business. We know that 
listening to our stakeholders is vital to our success. It 
enables us to respond with relevant, local solutions that 
meet people’s changing needs and tackle the world’s  
most important health challenges. 
Our stakeholder engagement is conducted formally 
through the many associations and partnerships of which 
we are members. We also seek to engage with stakeholders 
more informally through networks and organizations in 
which we participate.
Our local country businesses play an important role in 
forming relationships with stakeholders. We have defined 
a stakeholder engagement methodology to be used by each 
Abbott business and affiliate, which guides Abbott leaders 
in setting their local engagement strategies. We also 
require our local teams to review their stakeholder 
engagement strategies on a regular basis. We report the 
outcomes of local stakeholder engagement in country- 
level citizenship reports or at local stakeholder forums. 
Through our engagement, we aim to stay well informed on 
the major issues of concern to all stakeholders, wherever 
we operate.Customer Satisfaction
Our Net Promoter Score® (NPS) is an externally recognized 
metric for customer satisfaction, and we see it as an 
important measure of our success in meeting our customers’ 
needs. As an example of our performance, NPS for our 
diagnostics business increased from 32.1 in 2010 to 51.8  
in 2019.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT14          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWSTAKEHOLDER GROUP ENGAGEMENT METHODS
Investors • Investor calls 
• In-person meetings
•  Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, quarterly earnings calls  
and conferences (full investor calendar webpage)
• Investor newsletter 
• Annual Report• Global Sustainability Report
• Investor section of Abbott.com
•  Social media (Twitter®, Facebook®, Instagram®, 
YouTube® and LinkedIn®)
• Email alerts
Customers • Customer meetings
• Customer call centers 
• Sales ambassadors and customer relationship managers
• Field service representatives
•  Business and country representatives (Worldwide 
Contacts webpage)•  Consumer and healthcare professional sections  
of Abbott.com
• Brand websites
•  Social media (Twitter®, Facebook®, Instagram®, 
YouTube®and LinkedIn®)
• Focus groups
• Clinical trials
Suppliers
For more details on supplier engagement, see Strengthening 
Our Supply Chain (page 98).• Strategic partnerships 
• Procurement specialists
• Supplier Guidelines published in multiple languages
• Supplier Diversity Policy and Program
•  Supplier Social Responsibility Program,  
including surveys• Supplier audit programs
• Supplier scorecards
•  Active leadership in the Diverse Manufacturing Supply 
Chain Alliance (DMSCA)
• Suppliers section of Abbott.com
Employees
For more details on employee engagement, see Valuing Our 
People (page 51) and Supporting Communities (page 43).• Annual Employee Living Fully survey
• Division Culture surveys
• Ease of Working With HR survey 
•  Annual All-Employee Meeting with our Chairman  
and CEO
• Business and functional town hall meetings
• Employee networks• Abbott World intranet
• Abbott World Today daily email articles
• aLIVE smartphone app
• Yammer® groups
• Employee Giving Campaign 
• Internal employee volunteering website
Governments
For more details on government engagement, see Promoting 
Ethics and Integrity (page 22) and Supporting Communities 
(page 43).• Government affairs liaisons 
• Trade associations/organizations
• Abbott Employee Political Action Committee• Global Citizenship programs
• Corporate Political Participation webpage of Abbott.com–Our partnership with PATH has transformed a bowl of rice  
into a micronutrient-rich meal. We combined a century’s worth 
of Abbott science-based nutrition expertise and the Abbott Fund 
investment with PATH’s innovative Ultra Rice® formulation  
technology and on-the-ground expertise to create a scalable 
solution to malnutrition. For more information, visit the  
Ultra Rice page on our website .  For Abbott, local sourcing is an important part of building a more 
inclusive business that reaches more people in more places than 
ever before. Through our partnership with 1,500 dairy farmers in 
India, we have provided training and key resources required to 
produce greater quantities of higher-quality milk. As a result, the 
farmers’ income is more than double that of nonparticipants 
while their costs have remained the same. For more information, 
see the Shared Impact page on our website .  
15          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
In assessing what sustainability means to Abbott, we monitor how our priorities and material issues align with the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) published by the United Nations (UN). The following examples represent 
some of the many ways in which our work to help people live better and healthier lives intersects with the SDGs.
“The private sector plays a critical 
role in achieving transformational 
change through the SDGs. At 
Abbott, we see our social investments 
and responsible business practices 
as fundamental for creating a 
healthier environment that enables 
our business growth in markets 
around the world.”
JENNA DAUGHERTY
DIVISIONAL VICE PRESIDENT, 
GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP AND SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS EXAMPLE
GOAL 1  
End poverty in all its 
forms everywhere 
GOAL 2 
End hunger, achieve food 
security and improved 
nutrition, and promote  
sustainable agriculture
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT16          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS EXAMPLE
GOAL 3  
Ensure healthy lives and 
promote well-being for 
all at all ages
GOAL 4 
Ensure inclusive and 
equitable quality 
education and promote 
lifelong learning  
opportunities for all
GOAL 5 
Achieve gender equality 
and empower all women 
and girlsBy focusing on innovation, we continually offer new solutions 
to help people get and stay healthy:
•  Abbott’s diabetes care business has revolutionized continuous 
glucose monitoring with FreeStyle Libre®, while our rapid 
diagnostic tests are helping to fight malaria in the Indian 
state hit hardest by the disease.
•  In Rwanda, Abbott is working with the Ministry for Health 
and Society for Family Health to create a financially sustainable model for primary care in rural areas, which can be scaled 
across Africa and beyond.
•  In 2019, we launched our Future Well™ initiatives — a series  
of programs and collaborations with leading organizations 
and communities focused on outsmarting the drivers of 
noncommunicable diseases.
You can read more about these programs at Abbott.com.
By promoting science, technology, engineering and math 
(STEM) education, Abbott and the Abbott Fund are inspiring 
the next generation of innovators. Since the inception of our 
STEM programs, we have leveraged employee expertise to 
deliver engaging educational programs in more than 1,000 
schools and community partnerships, reaching more than 325,000 kids. Our Future Well partnership initiatives inspire 
young people to make changes today that will tackle chronic 
disease and secure a healthier and more fulfilling tomorrow. 
Read more about our STEM programs on the Science Education 
page of our website . 
Gender equality is a fundamental element of Abbott’s 
shared-value strategy. Women make up 43 percent of Abbott’s 
global workforce, and we are committed to doing better. We 
continue to invest in our high school internship program, 
providing hands-on, creative experiences that encourage girls 
to engage in STEM. We choose students from diverse schools near where we work, and more than half of our U.S. students 
are women. We are excited to share our STEM Internship 
Blueprint, a model of what’s worked for us for any business 
looking to increase STEM opportunities for underrepresented 
groups, such as women and minorities. You can read more 
about our STEM programs on our website .
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT17          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW1. Scope 1 and 2 emissions were calculated using the World Resources Institute 
(WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). To calculate our Scope 2 emissions, we 
use the GHGP market-based methodology. Where market-based information is not 
available, location-based results have been used as a proxy. For full details on our 
carbon emissions, including market- and location-based calculations, please see 
pages 117–118 and 121 in the Reporting on Sustainability section.
 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS EXAMPLE
GOAL 6  
Ensure availability and 
sustainable management 
of water and sanitation 
for all
GOAL 13  
Take urgent action to 
combat climate change 
and its impactsAccess to water is essential to Abbott’s manufacturing  
operations and business continuity, and it also plays a critical 
role in the use of many of our products. We are committed to 
managing our water use in an efficient, responsible manner, as 
well as to improving access to clean water for our customers 
and the communities in which we operate. We have set a target 
to decrease Abbott’s total water intake by 30 percent by 2020, compared to 2010 and adjusted for sales. We are progressing 
toward this target by increasing the water efficiency of our 
operations and reducing our water-related impacts. Since 2010, 
we have reduced our water intake by more than 3.6 percent 
on an absolute basis and 28 percent when adjusted for sales. 
See page 87 in Safeguarding Our Environment for more details.
Abbott is committed to identifying and mitigating climate-  
related risks that impact our operations, supply chain and 
distribution network. A core part of Abbott’s business strategy 
includes reducing the energy and carbon footprint of our  
operations. We have set a target to reduce our Scope 1 and 2  
carbon emissions by 40 percent by 2020 against 2010 levels,  
adjusted for sales. In 2019, we achieved a 43 percent reduction 
on this basis.1 We have also set an aggressive target to reduce the total weight of our packaging by 10 percent by 2020,  
compared to our 2010 baseline. We surpassed our initial goal  
in 2017 and continued this trajectory of progress by achieving 
total annualized reductions of 14 percent in 2019. Through this 
achievement, we have eliminated approximately 41.8 million 
pounds of packaging since 2010. See page 95 in Safeguarding 
Our Environment for more details.
COVID-19: MEETING A GLOBAL 
HEALTH CHALLENGE HEAD ON
An Evolving Pandemic
Meeting the world’s most urgent health challenge head on requires determination, 
expertise, compassion and responsibility.
Fighting the coronavirus pandemic has become an evolving battle, one that demands 
to be fought on multiple fronts: providing supplies to frontline workers, supporting 
families and communities affected by the virus, and the key to better understanding 
this disease — advancing access to testing.
Combating COVID-19 Through Testing
As the world continues to combat COVID-19, one thing has become clear: Testing  
is critical to solving the complex puzzle of an infectious disease outbreak. What’s 
needed, specifically, is testing to see if someone has an active infection or has  
previously been infected (antibody testing). To meet global needs, different kinds  
of tests are needed for different purposes in different environments.
Abbott has a long history of stepping up to help meet the world’s urgent health needs, 
such as when we scaled up penicillin production during World War II and when  
we developed the first licensed test for HIV in 1985. The COVID-19 crisis was no 
different. Abbott mobilized to quickly meet the need.
“When we saw the seriousness of COVID-19, we knew we needed to develop all  
types of testing that could help curb the spread and support care for patients,” said 
Chris Scoggins, Senior Vice President, Rapid Diagnostics.
Abbott’s decades of experience tracking viruses and developing diagnostic testing 
allowed us to swiftly create tests for different settings and stages of a person’s 
COVID-19 infection. Beyond the five diagnostic and antibody tests we’ve developed  
so far, our scientists are continuing work on additional COVID-19 tests across the 
spectrum of our diagnostic platforms.Molecular Testing
TEST RESULTS
An upper respiratory 
tract swab collects  
a mucus sample  
for testing.
The sample is mixed  
with reagents, which break 
open the virus and release  
its genetic material, the  
viral RNA.
The reagents recognize a unique section of the 
coronavirus genome while ignoring other viruses, 
even if they’re similar strains.The virus genome is  
replicated from a few target 
molecules, up to a billion,  
making the virus  
more detectable.Abbott’s molecular test 
provides results to the 
healthcare provider.
HOW  
CORONAVIRUS  
MOLECULAR  
TESTING  
WORKS
18          COVID-19 RESPONSE ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTesting for Active Infection
We have developed three molecular tests for detecting 
active infection and two serology tests for detecting 
antibodies. Our rapid point-of-care (POC) COVID-19 
molecular test is used on our ID NOWTM system. Around 
the size of a toaster, ID NOW has become a vital weapon in 
this battle because it can detect the virus in just 13 minutes 
or less. It is used in physicians’ offices, urgent care clinics 
and other POC settings.
As of July 2020, we’ve shipped more than 6 million of our 
rapid ID NOW tests to all 50 U.S. states, Washington, D.C., 
Puerto Rico and the Pacific Islands. The majority of these 
tests have been sent to outbreak hotspots.
We have also launched two lab-based molecular COVID-19 
tests, which are used on our m2000® RealTime system 
(currently in hospitals and molecular labs around the 
world) and with our new Alinity® m platform. In a 24-hour 
period, the Alinity m system can run up to 1,080 tests, and 
our m2000 system can run up to 470 tests.
Testing for Antibodies
An important next step in addressing the COVID-19 
outbreak is serology testing, also called antibody testing. 
These blood tests can provide a greater understanding  of the virus, including how long antibodies stay in the 
body and how much of the population has been infected. 
This information can help public health officials learn 
how widespread the outbreak is and can support the  
development of treatments and vaccines.
We’ve shipped more than 12 million ARCHITECT® i1000 sr 
and i2000 sr  and Alinity i COVID-19 tests to customers 
across the United States. We received the CE mark for  
the ARCHITECT test and are shipping to several other 
countries. Many of these instruments are already located 
in hospitals and medical labs where patients go for care.
Ramping Up Manufacturing 
As of July 2020, we have delivered more than 40 million 
tests to 85 countries around the world. This was made 
possible by the strength and resilience of our supply 
chains and the effectiveness of our continuity planning 
long before the pandemic struck. This readiness allowed 
us to obtain the supplies we and our customers needed 
without interruption. Our teams have been working 24/7 as we continue  
to ramp up production of our COVID-19 tests and our 
testing instruments, working with our suppliers and  
manufacturing teams to ship to more customers around 
the world. 
History of Diagnostic Testing Leadership
Developing accurate and reliable tests normally takes 
years; however, our team of scientists and experts literally 
worked around the clock to compress the time frame 
down to just weeks. 
More than 25 years ago, we created a Global Surveillance 
Program to monitor HIV and hepatitis viruses. We  
have a long-standing discovery program to identify  
new or unknown pathogens, which just last year led to  
our scientists discovering a new strain of HIV . Our library 
contains more than 78,000 virus strains, making it one of 
the largest libraries in the world, and we’re continuing to 
collect more data in the field. GLOBAL LEADER  
IN DISEASE TESTING
ID NOW HAS BECOME A VITAL WEAPON  
IN THIS BATTLE BECAUSE IT CAN DETECT 
COVID-19 IN JUST 13 MINUTES OR LESS.
19          COVID-19 RESPONSE ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20          COVID-19 RESPONSEThe COVID-19 pandemic has not only posed new  
challenges; it has revealed weaknesses and limitations  
in the world’s health systems. Communities already 
struggling with affordable access to healthcare, treatment 
and resources around the world are now all the more 
vulnerable. There is no one solution.
We know that beating this virus requires a comprehensive 
approach that includes partnerships and local expertise 
and targets the most vulnerable populations. In collaboration 
with the Abbott Fund, Abbott’s philanthropic foundation, 
we’ve given more than $23 million in cash and product 
donations to date across every region where we operate. 
Here are just a few of the ways we are helping strengthen 
health systems and communities to take on this  
global challenge: 
•  In Africa, healthcare systems are overburdened, creating 
gaps in COVID-19 treatment. We’re partnering with the 
African Federation for Emergency Medicine (AFEM)  
to provide virtual trainings on COVID-19 care to 2,000 
frontline providers in Africa. 
•  A smartphone app developed by the Emergency 
Medicine Association of Tanzania (EMAT) with a grant 
from the Abbott Fund now enables remote consultation 
between patients and physicians, easing overcrowding  
in outpatient departments. EMAT is sharing the app 
framework with other countries across Africa. 
•  The Direct Relief + Abbott Fund COVID-19 Community 
Grant Program is providing $5 million to support 25 
federally qualified health centers in the hardest hit U.S. 
states. The program is helping community health centers 
across the United States that serve predominantly Black 
and Latino populations by strengthening their capabilities to screen, test, triage and treat COVID-19 cases and 
provide clinical education. Our funding is also helping 
distribute PPE and other critical supplies to healthcare 
workers in Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom.
•  In partnership with CARE, we are helping train and 
support frontline workers in countries such as Afghanistan, 
Colombia, India, Uganda and Yemen. 
•  In China, we have provided nutrition products and 
funding for medical supplies.
•  In Canada, Colombia, Poland, the United Kingdom and 
the United States, we donated our continuous glucose 
monitoring (CGM) technology, the FreeStyle Libre® 
14-day system, for use in hospitals to remotely monitor 
patients with diabetes. 
•  Through our Future Well™ Communities program, 
we’re offering grants to our partner organizations in 
Stockton, California, to provide resources, food and 
frontline support to vulnerable populations. 
•  During the pandemic, families faced challenges finding 
important products, including infant formula. To help 
families in greatest need, we worked with Feeding 
America and others to donate more than 1.6 million  
feedings of Similac® infant formula in eight cities in  
the United States. 
•  We’re coordinating with Partners In Health to provide 
the Navajo Nation — one of the communities hardest  
hit by COVID-19 in the United States — with tests and 
nutrition products, as well as resources to conduct virus 
contact tracing. STRENGTHENING HEALTH SYSTEMS  
AND COMMUNITIES
ID NOW
m2000  
RealTim e System
Alinity m
ARCHITECT  
i1000 sr AND i 2000 srAlinity iOUR SCIENTISTS CONTINUE TO  
WORK ON ADDITIONAL COVID-19 TESTS  
ACROSS THE SPECTRUM OF OUR  
DIAGNOSTIC INSTRUMENTS.Caring is one of our core values — and battling this pandemic 
also means caring for our own colleagues and providing 
them with resources and support to help them stay healthy.
As a healthcare company, Abbott has been designated  
an essential business, so we can continue providing an 
uninterrupted supply of vital diagnostics, medical devices, 
medicines and nutritional products to our customers. 
Critical production of our nutritional and other healthcare 
products not only has continued during the pandemic but 
has ramped up.
Protecting our employees’ health has been fundamental  
to Abbott’s continuation of our product development and 
manufacturing processes. We’ve established an infrastructure 
to procure and distribute personal protective equipment 
(PPE) to employees to support our ability to contribute to 
the fight against the virus and keep our business operational. 
We’ve also taken steps at our sites to limit exposure, 
implement social distancing and further enhance the 
safety of our facilities for the employees on site. We have 
been testing employees and contractors directly involved 
in the manufacture of our COVID-19 tests in the United 
States and have begun expanding to other facilities.
Many of our colleagues also have been working remotely 
during this time. We’ve offered flexible working hours and 
a dedicated intranet site with tips and resources to help 
employees stay connected, healthy and active. We also 
sent regular “Great Leader” emails to managers, providing 
tips, resources and support to help them better manage 
and connect with their remote teams. 
Also, at the beginning of the school year in the United States 
this fall, we introduced new ways to make the remote 
experience better for both students and parents than it 
was in the spring. We created several new benefits (and 
highlighted other existing programs) that employees can 
use to make life a little easier. The new services will 
improve access to childcare and elder care, including backup care. Plus, we offer several at-home tutoring 
options, including two hours per week of tutoring at no 
cost to our employees and their families. 
Additionally, at some locations where employees remained 
on site, we’ve partnered with the cafeteria provider to offer 
food staples and hard-to-get items. We’ve also delivered 
wellness kits to employees at U.S. sites and distributed 
more than 24,000 kits to colleagues across the globe.
Abbott has 107 ,000 employees in more than 130 countries, 
and to date, there have been no pay cuts and we have not 
laid off or furloughed any employees due to COVID-19. We 
are offering our colleagues flexible working hours to help 
them manage their home and work schedules. Employees 
can also take paid sick leave if they are ill or quarantined  
as a result of COVID-19. For colleagues in the United States 
who took advantage of our program to buy extra vacation 
days, we gave them the option to reduce the extra days if 
they were unable to use them.
Our childcare center at our Abbott Park headquarters has 
remained open under a government-issued emergency 
order to provide childcare for essential workers. This includes 
operating under all required Illinois Department of Public 
Health criteria. The Clara Abbott Foundation, a not-for-
profit organization managed and funded independently 
from Abbott, which exists solely to help Abbott employees 
and retirees who are experiencing financial hardship, is 
providing financial grants to those who are struggling to 
afford their basic needs due to increased expenses and/or 
loss of household income resulting from COVID-19.
Our health plan activities have been updated as part of the 
CARES Act. We also implemented mid-year dependent-care 
flexible spending account elections that allow participants 
to make changes at any time, rather than only following a 
life event. This provision was granted by the U.S. Internal 
Revenue Service for Section 125 plans in the United States 
to allow more flexibility due to the COVID-19 outbreak.CARING FOR OUR EMPLOYEESEmployee Assistance Programs
As a result of the virus, we expanded employee assistance 
programs (EAPs) that offer health and wellness resources 
to at least 16 more of our country affiliates to provide: 
•  Counseling services for physical, financial and  
emotional care 
•  Ways to manage stress and anxiety during uncertainty
•  Local community resources, including where to find 
childcare and elder care
•  Help with making the transition from working at home 
to back in the office
In April, more than 900 employees from around the world 
joined our “Stay Focused No Matter What” webinar to help 
manage stress, and in May, 470-plus employees globally 
took part in live meditation sessions. Additionally, more than 
4,400 people have visited the COVID-19 support page at 
iLiveLifeWell.com, Abbott’s resource for well-being programs.
Beginning in China and working our way around the 
world, we deployed webinars to managers and employees 
within five days of shelter-in-place orders to help people 
adjust to the change to remote working and remain 
engaged and productive. We reached more than 7 ,000 
colleagues via these webinars. 
We also continued our focus on professional development, 
converting 63 instructor-led courses to virtual courses 
between January and July. Additionally, there has been a  
203 percent increase in eLearning participants in the first 
half of 2020 compared to 2019. We held 118 virtual classes 
globally between January and June, with more than 1,760  
virtual attendees.
Abbott people have been relentlessly battling the COVID-19 
pandemic while we’ve been continuing to meet the needs of 
our customers through our resilient supply chain, prioritizing 
our employees’ well-being and safety and supporting 
communities around the world.
21          COVID-19 RESPONSE ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22         PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYPROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
Integrity in All That We Do ............................................... 24
Governance ......................................................................... 24
Our Compliance Program ................................................  25
Combating Corruption and Bribery ................................  29SECTION 1
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
NCD PROGRAM
INCREASING 
ACCESS  
TO CARE
In times of disaster or a humanitarian crisis,  
it is difficult to access basic care like food, 
water and shelter. For people living with 
noncommunicable diseases (NCDs), such as 
diabetes and heart disease, however, basic 
needs also include critical medical supplies. 
Accessing care can be challenging under 
normal circumstances, but it’s even more 
difficult when there’s a crisis. So when an 
armed conflict in Marawi City, Philippines, 
left much of the area destroyed, people  
struggled to find the care they needed.
In 2019, we began a partnership with CARE  
to provide care, treatment and education on 
chronic diseases and their prevention. We’re 
honored to be a part of this program, which is 
among the first of its kind to address this issue 
in areas affected by humanitarian challenges.3-YEAR  
PROGRAM
IN MARAWI CITY, PHILIPPINES> CARE HEALTH WORKER
In the midst of a humanitarian crisis, CARE health 
workers in Marawi City, Philippines, are assisting 
people living with noncommunicable diseases.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT24          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYAbbott exists to enable people to live fuller, healthier  
lives. We strive to make an impact on policies and 
priorities that have a positive effect on people’s health  
and well-being. This includes enabling broader access  
to healthcare and life-changing technology. 
We must demonstrate that our advocacy is always  
ethical and responsible and that we operate all aspects  
of our business fairly, honestly and with integrity. We  
are committed to adhering to all applicable laws and 
regulations in every aspect of our work as a global 
healthcare company.
We have a clear strategy for building a culture of compliance 
at Abbott that engages all of our employees and emphasizes 
the importance of ethical behavior. In this section, we 
describe the channels we use to promote ethics and 
integrity and the systems we have in place to embed 
ethical behavior and manage compliance risks.Abbott’s Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer (CECO) is 
the Vice President responsible for leading our ethics and 
compliance program and managing our Office of Ethics 
and Compliance (OEC). The CECO regularly reports  
on compliance matters to our President and CEO and 
senior-level leaders and our Board of Directors and  
its committees.
Abbott’s Business Conduct Committee (BCC), which  
is chaired by the CECO, assists in implementing the 
compliance program. This group meets regularly to 
discuss the changing legal and regulatory environment, 
monitor best practices, and refine Abbott’s approach.  
The BCC consists of senior-level leadership and is directly 
accountable to our President and CEO.
Each Abbott business and function has dedicated OEC 
staff members who support the business in implementing 
our ethics and compliance program. Outside the United 
States, we operate an affiliate compliance program that is 
managed by local affiliate compliance committees. The 
committees include top executives from all of Abbott’s 
businesses within a country and are responsible for the 
day-to-day execution of the compliance program. The 
committees monitor compliance, provide training, and 
ensure employee awareness and engagement. They meet 
regularly to discuss emerging issues and work with local 
OEC staff to implement new programs.
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT“We incorporate ethics and 
compliance into every part of our 
business. At Abbott, we work with 
our leaders to build this culture 
throughout all levels of our 
organization, and it remains a 
critical part of how we operate.”
JAMES YOUNG
VICE PRESIDENT AND
CHIEF ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE OFFICERINTEGRITY IN ALL THAT WE DO
 GOVERNANCEABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT25          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYWe have designed our global ethics and compliance 
program to align with the elements of an effective 
program set out in the voluntary Compliance Program 
Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, which the 
Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services (HHS-OIG), published in 2003,  
as well as other guidance documents published by 
government agencies in the United States and other 
countries. Our policies also incorporate code of conduct 
guidelines from relevant medical technology trade 
associations, including AdvaMed, APACMed, MedTech 
Europe and Mecomed.
The laws of several countries require additional transparency 
and restrict how businesses can interact with healthcare 
providers. Abbott complies with all such requirements, 
including providing additional certification and tracking 
and reporting payments and transfers of value. This 
includes complying with federal and state-level transparency 
laws in the United States.Policies and Standards of Conduct
Our Code of Business Conduct is the foundation for 
ethical conduct at Abbott. We have made our code 
available in 29 languages, both in print and online. Every 
year, we require every Abbott employee to read the code 
and certify that he or she adheres to it. 
The code explains Abbott’s values and that it is every 
employee’s responsibility to live them every day. The 
expectations it sets out include employees holding 
themselves to the highest ethical standards, keeping a 
watchful eye on our activities, reporting concerns in good 
faith, and always operating with honesty, fairness and 
integrity. The code highlights key areas such as the 
importance of adhering to policies and procedures, 
treating confidential information appropriately, avoiding 
conflicts of interest, and maintaining accurate books and 
records. The code clearly states that Abbott does not tolerate illegal or unethical behavior in any aspect of our 
business and that employees are required to ask questions 
and/or report any concerns.
We have developed a decision-making AID (Assess Impact 
Decide) framework to help our employees apply the  
code’s principles. In addition to guiding their actions,  
this helps them monitor behavior, ask questions and 
report concerns.OUR COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
Clear  
leadership and 
accountability  
for complianceWritten  
standards of 
conductA process  
for reporting 
concernsRigorous  
auditing and  
monitoringA process for 
investigations  
and corrective 
actionsRisk  
assessments  
to enhance  
complianceCompanywide  
training and  
communicationsCOMPLIANCE PROGRAMABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT26         PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITY ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe also have a written policy, called Employee Problem 
Solving, that provides a system for employees to report 
concerns and enables the open exchange of information.  
It applies to all Abbott employees worldwide, except 
where local laws or collective bargaining agreements 
dictate otherwise.
We have made ethical interactions with healthcare 
professionals a key focus of our ethics and compliance 
program, as well as a focus of our Code of Business 
Conduct. We monitor our interactions with healthcare 
professionals and carry out periodic audits to track 
compliance with our policies. We assess compliance risks 
for different regions and business areas and use these 
assessments to determine the frequency of our audits.  
We have a system in place for tracking action items from 
audits to ensure that business processes are quickly 
updated when required.
We also offer specific training on interactions with 
healthcare professionals as part of our Legal and Ethics 
Resource Network (LERN) training program. See  
the section Training and Awareness on page 27 for  
more details.Our commitment to ethical interactions with healthcare 
professionals, patients and consumers includes the 
obligation to communicate responsibly about our  
products and services and the alternatives that exist.  
Our policies and procedures align with the regulatory 
licenses and approvals that we obtain to promote, sell  
and import medical devices, diagnostics, nutrition 
products and medicines.
We update our ethics and compliance policies regularly  
to reflect changes to the law or industry codes, including 
rules on interactions with healthcare professionals. In 
2018, we rolled out the Code of Business Conduct and 
compliance policies and procedures to our newly acquired 
rapid diagnostics business.
Process for Reporting Concerns
Our Code of Business Conduct emphasizes our employees’ 
responsibility to report concerns. This requires us to 
create an environment where they can do so in good faith, 
without fear of retaliation. The code outlines Abbott’s 
responsibilities for handling employee grievances and 
complaints in an ethical way and strictly forbids any 
retaliation against any person who raises a complaint. TRANSPARENCY ON NUTRITION  
Our nutrition business is dedicated to developing 
science-based nutrition products for people  
of all ages. We are committed to marketing 
these products ethically and ensuring that  
our practices comply with all local laws and 
regulations. We have well-established systems 
for ensuring that conduct at every level of the 
business conforms to our Global Infant Formula 
Marketing Policy, as well as the laws of the 
countries in which we operate. ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT27          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITY ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe have clearly defined systems and processes for asking 
questions and reporting suspected or actual violations of 
our code, policies or procedures. These include our Speak 
Up tool, which allows employees and external parties to 
raise concerns of potential misconduct in a manner that is 
confidential and (where permitted) anonymous, either by 
email, by telephone or through a website. The Ethics and 
Compliance Officer for Investigations enters every report 
that is received into the investigations database or 
delegates somebody else to do so. He or she assigns an 
investigator from the appropriate function to gather 
evidence, so the OEC can determine if action is required. 
We aim to conduct investigations as quickly as possible 
without compromising thoroughness and integrity, and 
we carry out periodic audits of the investigations process.
We also have a web-based Ethics and Compliance helpline 
with live telephone support and translation services for 
non-English speakers. The helpline is available 24 hours  
a day, seven days a week. Employees may also contact  
OEC staff or the CECO directly. We have additional 
systems in place for reporting through social media 
channels, which include reporting concerns, responding 
to questions on ethics, and handling reports of suspected 
or actual violations.We use a comprehensive reporting and investigations case 
management database to process, track and resolve all 
concerns that are reported.  
Training and Awareness
Abbott’s employees participate in a global online LERN 
training program, which is available in 95 countries and  
27 languages. LERN educates our employees on all aspects 
of the code and provides practical guidance on how to 
recognize and respond to legal and ethical issues. The 
OEC assigns LERN courses to each full-time and part-
time Abbott employee, based on his or her role and 
responsibilities and the specific training that he or she 
requires. The courses assigned to each employee are 
reviewed twice each year. In 2019, 100 percent of Abbott 
employees completed the LERN courses assigned to them.
The LERN curriculum includes certifications covering the 
Code of Business Conduct and Conflicts of Interest, with  
a key focus on interactions with healthcare professionals. 
All Abbott employees, full-time and part-time, review and 
sign these certifications every year. It also forms part of 
our ethics and compliance training for new employees.We supplement training with communications designed to 
raise awareness of compliance issues and ensure engagement 
with our policies. These include emails, newsletters, 
videos and issue highlights on our OEC intranet site. Our 
OEC staff also participates in global, national and regional 
sales meetings, as well as local site meetings, creating the 
opportunity to discuss compliance issues face to face. LEGAL AND ETHICS RESOURCE NETWORK 
(LERN) TRAINING
95 COUNTRIES 27 LANGUAGESLERNABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT28          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYRisk Assessments
The OEC regularly assesses compliance risks by reviewing 
the results of internal investigations, audits and monitoring 
programs and pays close attention to the external risk 
environment. This includes changes to industry codes  
and best practices, guidance from governments, and 
enforcement actions taken against other companies.  
Our Anti-Corruption Compliance Enhancement (ACE) 
program evaluates the commercial practices of countries 
in depth in order to identify potential compliance risks.
The OEC develops improvement plans for our policies  
and procedures in response to any emerging compliance 
risk that it identifies. We then track progress toward 
implementing these plans.
Monitoring and Accountability
We use our compliance risk assessments to guide our 
international program of audits and monitoring. This 
program assesses compliance with our code, as well as 
with our ethics and compliance policies and procedures. 
Our risk assessments determine the frequency and scope 
of audits for different businesses and countries. We  
track all action items resulting from our audits and  
make any improvements to our business processes in  
a timely manner.Managers and supervisors have a heightened responsibility 
for leading by example on compliance and making Abbott’s 
expectations clear. It is part of their role to ensure that 
employees understand and are held accountable to the code.
Investigations and Corrective Actions
Adhering to our Code of Business Conduct is a condition 
of continued employment at Abbott. We investigate all 
reports of potential violations of our code, policies or 
procedures and take appropriate corrective action.
Any Abbott employee who violates our code, policies or 
procedures is subject to appropriate disciplinary action, 
which may include termination. Corrective action may also 
include terminating third-party relationships. Any Abbott 
employee who refuses to cooperate in an investigation 
may also be subject to disciplinary action, as may any 
employee who reports a concern that is knowingly false  
or intended to threaten, intimidate or retaliate.
Abbott does not tolerate retaliation against anyone who 
reports a violation in good faith. We publicize these 
guidelines widely and enforce them throughout the company.We regularly report information about investigations  
to our Board of Directors and senior management  
and communicate the results of investigations, audits, 
assessments and monitoring to the appropriate OEC staff 
and business leaders. When an area for improvement is 
identified, the OEC collaborates with Abbott’s business 
leaders to take corrective action.Managers and supervisors have a heightened  
responsibility for leading by example on compliance 
and making Abbott’s expectations clear. ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT29         PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYAbbott adheres to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
(FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act, and all other applicable 
anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws. We also require 
that every third-party company with which we do business 
or which performs work on our behalf must act in 
accordance with these same laws. 
We expect third parties that work with Abbott to hold 
themselves to the same high standards of legal and ethical 
compliance that we as a company hold ourselves to.  
We have detailed these requirements in our Third-Party 
Guidelines and our Supplier Guideline and make these 
available to third parties in 18 languages through  
our website.Third-Party Compliance
The OEC has developed a Third-Party Compliance 
Process to identify and address corruption and bribery 
risks that occur when third parties interact with  
government officials or healthcare providers on  
Abbott’s behalf.
The Third-Party Compliance Process requires Abbott 
businesses, subsidiaries and affiliates outside the United 
States to conduct due diligence before they engage third 
parties. It sets down centralized processes for screening 
third parties, identifying high-risk business partners, and 
monitoring and mitigating the risks involved. The process 
also requires that our businesses sign written contracts 
with all third parties that include compliance requirements. 
Additionally, the process provides guidelines for training, 
monitoring and auditing third parties.
We routinely update our Third-Party Compliance Process 
tools and resources to mitigate third-party risks and better 
equip our business to prevent bribery and corruption.COMBATING CORRUPTION  
AND BRIBERYABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30         ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY
Delivering Quality and Safety ..........................................  32
Governance ........................................................................  32
Management Approach  ...................................................  33
Performance Updates ......................................................... 37
Security and Brand Protection ......................................... 39
Cybersecurity ..................................................................... 42SECTION 2
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
FREESTYLE  LIBRE
PROTECTING  
CONSUMER DATA
Technology has transformed healthcare in ways we could not 
have imagined. Whether it’s checking glucose levels on the go 
without a fingerstick or getting lab test results in minutes,  
we’re grateful that our products and devices can provide critical 
information to help people and their doctors manage their health.  We take robust measures to protect consumer data and  
keep it private and secure. We have a responsibility to  
those who use our systems, and we take this responsibility  
seriously, building consumer trust so that people can go on  
living, doing the things they love with the people they love.
> PALOMA GUERRERO
Diabetes blogger Paloma Guerrero in Scottsdale, 
Arizona, was one of the first people to try  
the FreeStyle Libre® system.1ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT32          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur purpose of enabling fuller lives through the power  
of health depends on trust, and trust in Abbott depends  
on our ability to consistently deliver safe, effective, 
high-quality products. We are proud of the trust that  
our business has established over the past 130 years. We 
recognize that the process of earning that trust never 
ends, and it’s the responsibility of everyone at Abbott.
As we evolve Abbott to meet emerging global healthcare 
needs and opportunities, we must ensure that our 
approach to quality and safety keeps pace with a 
constantly changing regulatory landscape. As a global 
healthcare company, we must monitor and adapt quickly 
to changing local regulations in the more than 160 countries 
where we operate. We have rigorous processes for 
embedding quality by design in all new products, and  
we closely monitor compliance on a global basis. As we 
respond to opportunities to change lives for the better 
through connected care and digital health, we focus  
on developing an equally responsive approach to 
cybersecurity risk management.Responsibility for quality and regulatory matters across 
Abbott sits with our Senior Vice President, Quality 
Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, a 
corporate officer who reports directly to our President  
and CEO. Dedicated quality and regulatory leaders  
within each Abbott business report to the presidents of 
the businesses they support and are accountable to the  
Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory  
and Engineering Services.DELIVERING QUALITY  
AND SAFETY
“Trust in Abbott depends upon 
our consistent delivery of 
high-quality and safe products. 
We work every day to maintain 
that trust and provide people 
around the world with the  
products and devices they need to 
help them get and stay healthy.” 
AGNES ORTEGA
DIVISIONAL VICE PRESIDENT,
COMPLIANCE AND QUALITY OPERATIONSGOVERNANCEABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT33          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYWe take a holistic view of quality across our organization 
and beyond, with systems and policies to drive 
consistency, compliance and continuous improvement. 
These include programs to embed quality, safety and 
sound product stewardship throughout our value chain. 
Our senior quality, regulatory and operations leaders  
meet at least quarterly to analyze trends, elevate concerns 
and review best practices for quality and compliance. 
Their input ensures that our quality management systems 
align with global industry standards and the changing 
regulatory landscape in our key global markets.
Quality Management Systems
We have developed a multicomponent model and 
proprietary metrics to track the quality system 
performance of our businesses and individual 
manufacturing sites. We review our model and metrics  
at least annually to ensure that they continue to assess 
relevant quality and compliance risks. We challenge 
ourselves with aggressive metric targets to continuously 
improve and identify early warning signals.
When we identify a change in performance at a site or  
a business, we analyze the causes of the change, take 
action when required, and capture best practices and  
key learnings to apply elsewhere in our organization.  We are introducing predictive analytics to our  
performance tracking with machine learning models  
to identify and enhance our ability to predict potential 
performance, quality and compliance risks.
Our systems focus on assessing two types of quality 
attributes: those related to the product design and those 
related to the manufacturing process. We use risk 
assessments and failure mode effect analysis (FMEA) to 
ensure robust processes and embed quality by design.  
We map our critical outputs to process and design  
inputs and monitor quality throughout the full product  
life cycle. When developing new products, we conduct 
rigorous product safety tests that are tailored to the 
product requirements. 
Abbott’s nutrition business ensures food safety through a 
tightly controlled manufacturing process that runs from 
our procedures for accepting materials from suppliers 
through to final product distribution. We monitor and 
verify microbiology, packaging integrity, and nutrient and  
lot control and test product extensively before releasing  
it for commercial distribution.Safety requirements are some of the core design inputs in 
the development of new devices by Abbott’s devices and 
diagnostics businesses. We perform design verification 
and design validation studies to ensure that every device 
meets its defined design inputs. These include human 
factor assessments and risk assessments, such as safety 
factors for both patients and those working in clinical 
laboratories. We focus on the safety and performance of  
a device throughout its lifetime and continue to confirm 
safety and performance once a product is released. We do 
so through batch release testing, analyzing feedback from 
users, and reviewing scientific and performance data.
Our global internal audit programs assess compliance 
with both regulatory standards and our own internal 
standards and processes. Internal processes are assessed, 
such as design, production processes, supply chain, data 
integrity, corrective and preventive actions (CAPA), and 
complaint handling. Each of our operating businesses  
also performs internal quality audits in line with local 
regulatory requirements and then highlights any findings 
in management reviews. We develop correction plans  
to address any compliance issues our audits identify.MANAGEMENT APPROACHABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT34          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYAbbott’s branded generic medicines business uses a single 
pharmacovigilance (PV) system for all of its marketed 
pharmaceutical products. The PV system monitors 
instances of safety reports worldwide, provides a  
framework for collection and ensures reporting to the 
relevant authorities. We provide PV system training for  
all employees in this division, and our division’s senior 
management regularly reviews the system to ensure our 
products are fully compliant.
One Abbott Approach to Commercial Quality
Our commercial quality assurance (QA) focuses on 
ensuring that the processes we have in place across 
Abbott’s supply chain are sufficient to maintain the  
quality and compliance of our products.
The One Abbott global commercial QA initiative is an 
ongoing program that focuses on establishing common 
procedures and processes for quality management.  
It emphasizes four key areas:
• Organization and professional development
• Operational excellence
• Customer satisfaction
• Supply chain assuranceSince the launch of the One Abbott initiative in 2016, we 
have aligned our quality systems for managing suppliers, 
documentation, warehouse controls, nonconformance  
and CAPA. The One Abbott team also has hosted three 
global conferences that brought together representatives 
from Abbott businesses and affiliates worldwide. These 
conferences are an opportunity to share best practices, 
challenge the status quo and move QA forward.
Quality Certifications
Abbott maintains certification to global industry  
standards, and we have achieved independent quality 
certifications across our Global Manufacturing, Research  
and Development (R&D), and Commercial Operations.  
Not all of our certifications are regulatory requirements. 
However, we embrace all of them as opportunities to drive 
continuous improvement and operational excellence.Our standards include:
•  ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 17025, ISO 22000 and  
ISO 90013
•  ISO 13485 (Medical Devices – Quality Management 
Systems), with 100 percent of device facilities certified
• NSF (National Sanitation Foundation) International
• GFCO (Gluten-Free Certification Organization)
•  GMP+ FSA (Good Manufacturing Practices Plus and 
Food Safety Assurance)
• FSMA (Food Safety Modernization Act)
• Safety Assurance Certification
• HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points)
• Halal
• QAI (Quality Assurance International)
• Organic Certification
• Kosher
• Class A Certification
Every Abbott nutrition manufacturing operation is 
certified to ISO 22000 and GMP+ standards.We focus on the safety and performance of a device 
throughout its lifetime and continue to confirm  
safety and performance once a product is released.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT35          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYProduct Stewardship
We have developed a product stewardship program to 
minimize the impact of our products and their packaging 
throughout the product life cycle. The program tracks  
and addresses regulations regarding restricted chemicals  
and ensures due diligence regarding conflict minerals.  
We carefully monitor and document regulatory changes, 
and we inform all the affected areas of our company about 
the potential business impacts of these changes through 
regular product stewardship business meetings. We offer product stewardship training on conflict 
minerals, medical device regulations and substances 
of concern. We also offer training to relevant teams  
on the use of our global data composition repository. 
These teams include R&D, Supply Chain, Procurement, 
and Environment, Health and Safety.
Hazardous Chemicals
Responding to regulations on hazardous chemicals is a  
key element of our product stewardship program, with 
significant implications for how our products can be used, 
recycled and disposed of. We ensure that the way Abbott 
products are marketed and sold complies with current 
regulations and not just the regulations in place at the 
time they were developed.
Conflict Minerals
We have defined a due-diligence process for understanding 
the use and sourcing of conflict minerals in our products 
and our supply chain. This includes the 3TG minerals: 
tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold.
We file a Form SD2 and Conflict Minerals Report each year 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, in 
compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act. The form, the 
report and our position statement on conflict minerals  
can be found on our website . We are a member of the 
Responsible Minerals Initiative, which provides  companies with tools and resources to support compliant, 
responsible sourcing from conflict-affected and  
high-risk areas.
We use the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s standardized 
Conflict Minerals Reporting Template to survey our 
suppliers on conflict minerals. We also use an automated 
conflict minerals analysis tool to help assess risk in our 
supply chain.
Product Quality Training
We provide education and training, based on current 
regulatory requirements and industry standards for good 
manufacturing, laboratory, clinical and distribution 
practices, to all of our employees who have responsibility 
for product quality. We offer more than 350 quality courses 
in multiple languages on a broad array of regulatory and 
compliance topics.
Key topics for training are determined by a review of 
current course offerings; inspection outcomes; target  
audience training needs; and emerging industry topics, 
such as cybersecurity. Subject-matter experts from across 
Abbott are engaged to ensure training is relevant and 
includes an appropriate depth of learning for identified 
audiences. MEDICAL DEVICE SINGLE AUDIT PROGRAM 
(MDSAP)
96%
MANUFACTURING 
SITES  
MDSAP-  
CERTIFIEDABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT36          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYIn addition to computer-based and instructor-led training 
courses, a monthly global webcast is held to share key 
information impacting operations and to provide a direct 
connection between learning, knowledge and performance. 
This creates a forum for exchanging knowledge and 
leveraging information globally within key areas, such  
as quality, compliance, operations, regulatory and  
medical affairs.  New Acquisitions
New acquisitions play an important role in expanding our 
product portfolio and supporting innovation, diversity and 
choice for our customers. We have a well-defined process 
for assessing risk when integrating new acquisitions into 
our business and aligning acquired products with Abbott’s 
quality requirements.
Following acquisitions, a cross-functional team assesses, 
identifies and prioritizes risks in order to develop 
integration action plans. We focus on ensuring compliance 
with country requirements, with the Abbott quality 
system, and with the need to provide safe, quality  
products to our customers. We also identify opportunities 
to learn from best practices at the businesses we  
acquire and to integrate these into our global policies  
and procedures.
A critical part of our process is ensuring that new 
employees from the acquired company receive Abbott 
quality training, continue to expand their knowledge  
and benefit from development opportunities. This 
provides a foundation for good quality management 
throughout the transition.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT37          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYProduct Quality Indicators
Abbott manufactures products at 92 sites across North 
America, Latin America, Europe and the Asia Pacific, 
crossing many different jurisdictions and involving 
oversight from a range of different regulatory agencies.  
Our understanding of global regulatory trends leads us to 
expect increased oversight from each of these different 
regulatory agencies. One of our key product quality 
indicators is the percentage of site visits from our regulators 
that result in zero observations. Our sites received  
more than 600 visits from global regulators and health 
authorities in 2019, 75 percent of which resulted in zero 
observations. Our objective is to continuously improve 
this number.
We also respond proactively to all FDA warning letters 
and product recalls that relate to Abbott products.  
During 2019, Abbott had zero new warning letters.  
There were two Class I and 28 Class II FDA recalls  
for our products. 
Our management of Abbott’s Tier 1 suppliers  
includes monitoring the percentage of these suppliers  
that participate in third-party audit programs for  
manufacturing and product quality. At the end of 2019,  
98 percent of our Tier 1 suppliers were active participants 
in these programs.PERFORMANCE UPDATES
  QUALITY INSPECTIONS AND AUDITS 2019
Number of quality/regulatory inspections of Abbott sites by worldwide health authorities 647
Percentage that resulted in zero observations 75%
Number of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) inspections of Abbott sites 18
Percentage that resulted in zero observations 72%
Average number of observations per FDA inspection 0.61
Number of internal independent audits to ensure compliance with Abbott quality standards 71 (global compliance)
FDA WARNING LETTERS ISSUED 2019
Total number of letters issued for Abbott 0ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT38         ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAligning With Global Standards
In 2017 , the European Union (EU) published its Medical 
Devices Regulation (MDR) and In Vitro Diagnostics 
Regulation (IVDR). Both the MDR and IVDR include 
multiyear implementation periods, which take effect on 
May 26, 2021 (MDR), and May 26, 2022 (IVDR). We work 
to ensure that Abbott’s global quality management system 
is fully aligned with the new regulations by the end of 
these implementation periods. 
During 2019, the leaders of our affected businesses and 
functions continued to work on identifying necessary 
product and process changes to comply with the new 
requirements (e.g., updating impacted corporate quality 
system procedures, establishing the role of the person 
responsible for regulatory compliance, evaluating 
sufficiency of clinical evidence). We also have launched 
new training courses aligned with the requirements of  
the MDR and IVDR. 
In addition, our businesses took action in early 2019  
to prepare for the United Kingdom’s (U.K.’s) eventual 
withdrawal from the European Union (Brexit) to ensure 
continuity of supply to both the EU and U.K. markets. Regulators worldwide are putting increased emphasis on 
data integrity. We are responding by continuing to ensure 
compliance of our quality and critical electronic systems 
with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). Every Abbott 
business is assessing its manufacturing process records 
and support systems for data integrity compliance in  
order to ensure the continued safety and conformity of 
our products.
Training and Certification
In 2019, we launched new quality training courses on data 
integrity, data analytics and visualization, and economic 
operator responsibilities. All employees will receive this 
training every three years. During the year, the American 
Society for Quality (ASQ) and the Regulatory Affairs 
Professionals Society (RAPS) certified 33 of our quality 
and regulatory professionals as Hazard Analysis and 
Critical Control Points (HACCP) auditors, biomedical 
auditors, quality engineers and regulatory affairs auditors. 
 SHINGO PRIZE
2019 Shingo Prize recipients: 
•  Abbott Nutrition Supply Chain,  
Sturgis, Michigan, United States
•  Abbott Nutrition Supply Chain, Singapore
The Shingo Prize is an internationally  
recognized symbol of excellence that denotes 
organizations where principles of operational 
excellence are deeply embedded in culture, 
thinking and behavior.EXTERNAL RECOGNITION ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT39          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYProtecting Product Authenticity 
Ensuring the authenticity of products is critical for 
maintaining trust in our brand. We take action to identify 
and eliminate counterfeit products in the marketplace 
through a strategy focused on four key areas: 
•  Securing the global supply chain is done through 
continual analysis focused on finding weak points  
and using advanced investigative tools to identify  
and prevent suspicious activities. 
•  Overt and covert security features are included to 
identify authentic Abbott products. These include 
customized security labels, tamper-resistant seals and 
security features for cartons. 
•  Collaborating with local law enforcement and regulatory 
organizations, we aim to identify and disrupt the 
criminal organizations involved in counterfeiting, 
diversion and theft.
•  Working closely with industry, governments and other 
organizations, we share insights and strategies and 
formulate joint action plans.
Since 2018, our Global Security team has been using 
state-of-the-art analytical techniques to identify and 
eliminate illicit internet sales. Over the course of 2018 and 
2019, this technology helped us remove more than 487 
websites selling counterfeit, diverted, outdated and stolen 
products and more than 7 ,000 individual product listings.In 2019, we formed partnerships with local and federal 
law enforcement organizations in four countries in Latin 
America and Asia. Through these partnerships, we are 
educating officers about the risks of illicit goods entering 
the marketplace, and we are working together to identify, 
seize and destroy unauthorized and illegal products. 
These proactive measures have enabled Abbott businesses 
to reestablish brand trust and presence in these markets 
and improve overall sales.
At Abbott, the need to deter, detect and mitigate the risk  
of counterfeit and diverted products while maintaining  
a competitive advantage across our global supply chain 
drives constant innovation. 
Key innovative programs developed by Abbott’s Global 
Security (GS), Legal, Trademark, Regulatory, Public 
Affairs and Business Unit (BU) teams, along with other 
internal and external entities, include the following:
•  Our innovative supply chain security efforts ensure 
Abbott exceeds the United States Customs and Border 
Protection (CBP) enhanced Customs-Trade Partnership 
Against Terrorism (CTPAT) Minimum Security  
Criteria (MSC). 
–  By partnering with CBP and an external vendor, Abbott 
has implemented a low-cost, highly effective surveillance 
system to assess and mitigate the risk from theft,  
counterfeit and/or diversion of Abbott’s products.–  By ensuring that Abbott remains a Tier 3 partner of the 
CTPAT (the highest level), our products move in and 
out of the United States with expedited processing and 
80 percent fewer customs exams, which saves Abbott 
millions of dollars annually. 
•  Abbott’s BUs and Business Support Teams (BSTs) also 
have developed playbooks for the BUs’ key products. 
These playbooks document key-product-identifying data 
(e.g., pictures of authorized packaging, authorized 
manufacturing locations and typical shipping lanes). 
–  The program coordinates, integrates and aligns Abbott’s  
 anti-counterfeiting and anti-diversion efforts with 
 external agencies. 
–  The result is Abbott detects counterfeit and diverted 
 products earlier, fosters awareness with government 
 entities (involved in the import and export of our 
 products) and amplifies investigative opportunities.
•  Abbott’s BSTs and BUs work together with ministries  
of health and law enforcement entities worldwide to 
identify counterfeit and diverted products and competitors’ 
products falsely claiming that they contain key active 
pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) contained in  
Abbott products.
–  These efforts remove products that harm consumers, 
 negatively impact the Abbott brand and reduce revenue.SECURITY AND  
BRAND PROTECTIONABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT40          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY•  Abbott’s Legal and Trademark teams, BSTs, BUs, and  
an outside vendor have partnered to implement a 
wide-ranging, highly effective online enforcement 
program. This program removes fraudulent listings  
for counterfeit and diverted products from online 
marketplaces. This protects our customers, brand  
and revenue. 
–  Hundreds of listings are removed every month,  
and hundreds of thousands of dollars in revenue  
are protected each month. 
–  The value of protecting consumers from counterfeit 
products stored, shipped and handled outside of 
Abbott-controlled supply chains is incalculable. Safeguarding Intellectual Property 
We are intent on developing a culture that protects our 
intellectual property and trade secrets from growing 
international threats. We focus our efforts on three fronts: 
•  We educate key employees to raise awareness of 
intellectual property protection and train them in 
risk-reduction strategies. 
•  We conduct on-site vulnerability analyses and threat 
assessment to identify risks to Abbott’s intellectual 
property and create mitigation strategies. 
•  We conduct protective technical security countermeasure 
(TSCM) sweeps and inspections at the facilities and 
operations that we identify as at risk. Our TSCMs 
examine the physical and electronic environment to 
ensure that an area is free of covert monitoring devices 
and other vulnerabilities.
In 2019, our GS team continued to expand our intellectual 
property protection, carrying out risk assessments and 
mitigation discussions across every Abbott business 
segment. The U.S. government invited Abbott to serve  
as part of a U.S. Customs and Border Protection working 
group on improving the protection of intellectual  
property rights.Protecting the Working Environment 
Safety in the workplace is a critical aspect of Abbott’s 
responsibility to our employees and is essential for our 
people to be able to perform at their best. Our GS team  
has responsibility for minimizing the personal risk to  
our employees as a result of external threats. This takes 
place on several levels:
•  Situational Awareness For Everyone Everywhere 
(SAFEE) training is designed to strengthen our  
employees’ vigilance and security awareness.
•  Abbott’s Global Communications Center (GCC) is a 
state-of-the-art command center where our analysts 
monitor world events 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 
The GCC provides advance warnings of emerging and 
immediate threats, ensuring employees are safe and 
accounted for.
•  Our extensive network of regional security experts, 
whom we have located strategically around the world, 
offers assistance to regional businesses and to employees 
when traveling. 
•  Abbott’s Travel Safety program offers comprehensive 
support to our employees, from booking travel to their 
safe return home.In 2019, our Global Security team provided  
training, including situational awareness training, 
to more than 10,100 employees worldwide.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT41          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYIn 2019, our GS team provided training, including SAFEE 
training, to more than 10,100 employees worldwide.  
Our travel safety program supported more than 110,000 
international trips by more than 24,500 of our employees.
Securing Our Supply Chain
We are committed to eliminating criminal activities, such 
as drug trafficking, terrorism, human trafficking, forced 
child labor, cyber threats and illegal contraband from our 
supply chain. We comply with all international customs 
laws, and we carefully screen our business partners to 
guard against unethical practices and security threats.
Since 2003, Abbott has participated actively in the  
CTPAT program run by CBP , which applies security 
standards to the global supply chain. Many Abbott 
businesses also participate in the Authorized Economic 
Operator program, which is modeled after the World 
Customs Organization’s SAFE Framework of Standards. In 2019, we worked with CBP on the development of the 
CTPAT program, providing feedback on new measures 
and security criteria that will take effect in 2020. In 
anticipation of the new CTPAT security criteria, we  
have partnered with a third-party vendor on a system for 
electronically tracking compliance among our importers, 
and we worked with external security experts to train  
and certify our Global Security team to the new standards. 
We have also updated our contract language to ensure that 
suppliers fully comply with all of the policies, procedures 
and guidelines.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT42          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYData technologies are transforming modern medicine 
through the growth of connected medical devices, 
products, diagnostic platforms and systems. Living up to 
the trust that our customers place in Abbott requires a 
strong focus on cybersecurity. We take a comprehensive 
approach to protecting the devices, products and systems 
we offer that connect patients to healthcare professionals 
and institutions, ensuring their safety and that of their 
data. We are also committed to evaluating and evolving 
our approach on a regular basis. We comply with local 
regulations for reporting and notification of security 
breaches involving customers’ personal information in  
all locations where Abbott operates.
Cybersecurity Governance and Management Approach
We have evolved our approach to cybersecurity  
governance to enable greater focus on two equally 
important areas for our business: enterprise and product 
cybersecurity. By entrusting cybersecurity governance to 
separate organizations for each of these areas, we identify 
and mitigate risks to the security and safety of our products 
and the security of the data collected through them.
•  Responsibility for enterprise cybersecurity, including the 
security of Abbott data on servers, websites and mobile 
devices, and the cyber resiliency of Abbott’s network, 
business systems and manufacturing sits with our 
Enterprise Cybersecurity organization. •  Responsibility for product cybersecurity, including 
secure design, development and ongoing cybersecurity 
surveillance for products in the customer environment, 
sits with our Product Cybersecurity organization. 
Abbott’s Chief Information Officer (CIO) has overall 
responsibility for both cybersecurity organizations and  
for ensuring a holistic approach to cybersecurity across 
Abbott. The Cybersecurity program is governed by the 
Cybersecurity and Privacy Oversight Committee, which 
advises on and monitors the strategic direction of Abbott’s 
cybersecurity programs. The committee comprises  
officers of the company in the areas of Legal,  
Compliance, Finance, Human Resources, Quality and 
Information Technology.
Our overall approach to cybersecurity governance is 
designed to protect Abbott devices, products and systems 
through a focus in four areas:
•  Cybersecurity-embedded design: This involves a 
cybersecurity review and analysis as new products are 
built and systems are updated.
•  Constant threat and risk analysis, which is used to 
identify new threats and deploy cybersecurity controls: 
This is informed by collaboration with external experts 
and information-sharing agreements with specialists in 
the healthcare and cybersecurity fields.•  Security testing by both internal and independent 
external experts: This ensures our devices, products and 
systems meet or exceed current cybersecurity standards.
•  Partnerships to assess trends, share threat information, 
and establish standards that protect patients and 
maintain trust in the healthcare system: Abbott’s 
cybersecurity partners include other members of the 
healthcare industry, trade associations, security experts, 
academic institutions and the research community. 
 
Abbott recognizes the continuous evolution of technology 
and all its possibilities, as well as the threats associated 
with that technology use. Because of this, we constantly 
evaluate and adapt our security tools, people and 
processes with the goal of ensuring our patients receive 
the highest quality care. The Cybersecurity and Quality 
organizations work closely together to incorporate 
cybersecurity considerations throughout the product life 
cycle, including design, development and manufacturing, 
as well as the integrity of our quality data systems.CYBERSECURITY
1. The FreeStyle LibreLink app is only compatible with certain mobile 
devices and operating systems. Please check our compatibility guide for 
more information about device compatibility before using the app. Use of 
the FreeStyle LibreLink app requires registration with LibreView, a service 
provided by Abbott and Newyu, Inc. Important safety information:  
https://www.freestylelibre.us/safety-information.html.
2. A Form SD is an Exchange Act form used to satisfy special disclosure 
requirements implemented under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43          SUPPORTING COMMUNITIESSUPPORTING COMMUNITIES
Improving Access to Healthcare ....................................... 45
Management Approach ..................................................... 45
Shared Impact ..................................................................... 46
Making a Positive Impact: Community Outreach .........  48
Engaging Employees and Communities ..........................  48SECTION 3
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
FUTURE WELL ™ COMMUNITIES
REMOVING 
BARRIERS   
TO HEALTH
The place someone lives should not determine 
how healthy he or she can be. In many 
communities around the world, people lack 
access to medical care, fresh foods and 
transportation — just a few of the many things 
that are needed to get and stay healthy. 
Our new program, Future Well Communities, 
applies a holistic approach to removing these 
types of social and economic barriers that 
make it hard to live a healthy lifestyle. 
Starting in Stockton, California, we’re helping 
develop urban gardens, provide nutrition 
education, coordinate medical transportation 
and more, with the hope of creating a model  
of community health that can be used in  
other places.> JESSICA BRYANT
Urban-farming advocate Jessica Bryant 
launched Corn Poppy Produce in Stockton, 
California, in 2019.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT45         SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES“The COVID-19 pandemic 
reminded us that the world is 
bigger than all of us. With our 
vast experience in testing and 
infectious disease, we’re 
relentlessly focused on helping 
people, and we’re willing to take 
big, bold moves to do so.”
ANDREA WAINER
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, 
RAPID AND MOLECULAR DIAGNOSTICS
IMPROVING ACCESS  
TO HEALTHCARE
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMANAGEMENT APPROACH
At Abbott, we know that innovative health technology  
is only life changing when it reaches those people who 
need it most. From testing more than half of the world’s 
blood supply to innovating wearable devices that monitor 
your health remotely to supplying our quality, trusted 
medicines in emerging markets, we aim to help people  
live not just longer but better. Our approach to global  
citizenship and shared impact is based on this belief and 
shapes how we work with communities around the world.  
As a healthcare leader, we strive to make a positive social 
impact on helping people live longer and better. We apply 
our unique strengths to identify and invest in life-changing 
innovations, design new business models to meet  
emerging healthcare needs, and find measurable ways  
to address social challenges through our scientific and 
technical expertise.  Just one example of how we manage our approach to 
increasing access is through our unique branded generic 
medicines business model, which focuses on emerging 
markets. We know that while incomes are rising globally, 
people often pay out of pocket for healthcare. They 
deserve quality care that is affordable. 
Our intense focus on innovation is improving medicine  
in emerging and underserved markets and offering new 
solutions to help people get and stay healthy. We listen, 
learn and partner in each country and use local insights to 
make good medicines better, using new technology and 
services. We take a globally driven, locally focused 
approach that addresses health needs through meaningful 
innovation and improvement guided by patient needs.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT46         SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES
 ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSHARED IMPACT
Shared value is an integral part of Abbott’s strategy  
for delivering health solutions in both emerging and 
developed economies. Our approach is based on access and 
innovation: new products to meet local healthcare needs, 
new business models that create value for communities 
and new systems that can deliver healthcare to those who 
need it most. Through this work, we tie the growth of our 
business to meeting social needs.
Bringing Healthcare Closer to Home in Rural Africa
According to World Bank data, 60 percent of people in 
sub-Saharan Africa live in rural areas where access to 
healthcare is limited. These limits on the accessibility of 
healthcare constrain the potential of people and society.  
In Rwanda, Abbott has identified an opportunity to create 
shared impact by supporting the Ministry of Health’s 
program to close the rural healthcare gap.
The Rwandan government has a bold vision to deliver 
quality primary care and testing within a 30-minute walk 
of every Rwandan home. Through an innovative health 
post model, Abbott is working in partnership with the 
Ministry of Health and the Society for Family Health 
Rwanda to help build a connected health network and 
make it financially sustainable.By equipping the posts with rapid diagnostics, supporting 
nurses with testing and business training, and demonstrating 
the impact of the network on patients’ lives, we can help 
establish a model for primary care in rural areas that could 
be scaled across Africa and beyond.
Beginning with eight pilot locations in the Bugesera 
district in 2019, our new second-generation health posts 
provide much-needed maternity wards and antenatal care. 
The new health posts also offer HIV testing, treatment for 
infectious diseases (such as malaria, respiratory infections 
and intestinal parasites), pharmacy services and health 
education. The posts are also quickly becoming a destination 
for the management of common noncommunicable 
diseases, such as diabetes and hypertension.
In addition, Abbott is actively working with the Rwandan 
Ministry of Health and the Society for Family Health 
Rwanda to evaluate the expansion of services to include 
addressing nutritional deficiencies.In 2019, we worked in support of the Rwandan Ministry of 
Health and the Society for Family Health Rwanda to pilot 
second-generation health posts that address gaps in primary 
care and testing. These new health posts are designed to 
expand essential health services in rural communities.
 
EARLY RESULTS SHOW BROADER ACCESS TO 
CARE AND SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS
Though the first eight health posts have been operational for 
just six months, early results are promising. The data shows  
that when there is better access to care, there is an increase  
in healthcare-seeking behavior and people receive needed  
testing and treatment.
The second-generation health posts are attracting more 
patients and resolving more cases than first-generation health 
posts, with the following results:
•  Patient volume is increasing by 32 percent.
•  So far, about 1,000 patients are being seen per month at  
the new health posts — totaling more than 54,000 patients 
from October–April.
•  The new health posts detected three times the number  
of malaria cases on a monthly basis, with more than  
3,800 people receiving treatment.
•  The number of diagnosed respiratory infections was  
11 percent higher, with a total of 15,900 people treated 
during the six-month pilot.
•   9,800 cases of intestinal parasites were resolved — double 
the number achieved at first-generation posts.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT47         SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES
 ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTInvesting in Dairy Farmers in India
Faced with the growing demand for nutrition products  
in India, we joined forces with Prabhat, an Indian dairy 
company that was acquired by Lactalis in 2019, and 
TechnoServe, the international nonprofit that supports 
farms and businesses in the developing world, to ensure a 
dependable supply of high-quality milk. Abbott launched a 
program with the potential to transform the lives of 
farmers and their families, as well as strengthen our 
nutrition business in an important market.
Often referred to as shared value, this approach delivers 
social value to dairy farming communities and economic 
value to companies like Abbott. Through this program,  
we developed a quality-focused demonstration model to 
strengthen our local dairy supply chain while empowering 
local farmers to produce increased volumes of higher- 
quality milk, thereby helping them build their small dairy 
businesses and communities.Our approach is making a difference. The program results 
for participating farmers have been dramatic. Their 
production nearly doubled, and the milk had higher levels 
of protein, vitamins, minerals and fat — all key measures of 
high-quality milk. As a result, the farmers’ income is more 
than double that of nonparticipants, while their costs have 
remained the same.
Participating farmers were more likely to adopt standardized 
dairy practices, including only selling milk from healthy 
animals, using steel cans to hold milk and cleaning the 
animals properly. Adopting these practices increased the 
quality and cleanliness of the milk, meeting Abbott’s strict 
quality standards and allowing the company to source 
milk locally for our nutrition products in India. To date, 
Abbott has made a difference in the lives of more than 
1,500 dairy farmers — half of whom are women —  
developing an empowered, more sustainable supply chain.LONG-TERM SUSTAINABLE  
ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE  
For two decades, Abbott and the Abbott Fund have worked 
closely with the government of Tanzania to strengthen the 
country’s healthcare system, including upgrading patient 
testing and care at the country’s largest public hospital, 
Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH).
Over the course of our 20-year partnership, we have:
•  Established emergency medicine as a new medical specialty 
at MNH and three regional emergency rooms. While 
training more than 300 physicians, nurses and students 
through its residency program, this department provides 
emergency care to approximately 60,000 people  
per year and has reduced the mortality rate at the  
hospital by 50 percent.
•  Built infrastructure, supported professional capacity and 
established a lab IT system for a network of 23 regional 
public laboratories, which supports more than 120 district 
laboratories, providing accurate and timely diagnosis for 
millions of people. 
•  Supported a strategy for financial sustainability at MNH, 
including cost recovery from patients with health insurance 
or the ability to pay. This helped two departments generate 
a surplus of more than $14 million in the first six years, 
which supports the hospital’s commitment to providing 
critical care, regardless of ability to pay.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT48         SUPPORTING COMMUNITIESMAKING A POSITIVE IMPACT: 
COMMUNITY OUTREACH
A Focus on Noncommunicable Diseases
Finding new solutions to treat chronic diseases has  
long been a part of our work to help people live better, 
healthier lives. As noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) 
have emerged as a growing challenge, our work to find 
answers today — whether through prevention, diagnosis 
or treatment — is at the center of what we do.
In 2019, we launched our Future WellTM initiatives:  
a series of programs and collaborations with leading 
organizations and communities focused on outsmarting 
the drivers of NCDs. The school-based Future Well Kids 
program helps encourage young people to develop lifelong 
healthy habits at an early age. This program served  
33 classrooms in 2019 in underserved communities in 
Ireland, Mexico and the United States and will expand  
to more schools in other locations in 2020 and beyond.
Future Well Communities employs a holistic community 
health approach to breaking down the social and economic 
barriers to good health. These factors are known as  
the social determinants of health (SDOHs) and include 
access to healthcare and education, the environment, 
economic opportunity, and social factors like social 
support and discrimination.  In 2019, we launched Future Well Communities in 
Stockton, California, where nearly 60 percent of adults 
have diabetes or prediabetes and 33 percent are obese. 
Through strategic partnerships with local governments 
and community groups, Future Well Communities is 
helping residents address diabetes in a variety of ways: 
•  Healthcare worker pipeline: Collaborating with the 
University of the Pacific in California to provide 
scholarships for students committed to working locally, 
as well as to create a diabetes certificate program for 
community health workers and a diabetes track for 
graduate degree programs in nursing and social work
•  Healthy families: Engaging families in healthy eating, 
exercising and disease awareness
•  Urban farms: Supporting microbusinesses that grow 
and distribute healthy produce
•  Medical transportation services: Supporting a local 
nonprofit that provides free door-to-door nonemergency 
transportation to medical care
•  Group medical visits: Combining medical care,  
a health class and a support group into one visit to 
encourage consistency in diabetes careManaging NCDs in Emergency Situations
In 2019, we announced a three-year partnership with 
CARE and the Abbott Fund to screen, diagnose, prevent 
and manage NCDs for people who remain displaced two 
years after an armed conflict in Marawi City, Philippines. 
This partnership is among the first of its kind to address 
NCDs in areas affected by disasters, conflict and other 
humanitarian challenges, where managing NCDs is 
difficult but critical. 
Launched in June 2019 with a local forum to engage key 
stakeholders, this partnership aims to improve lives and 
establish a new model for the effective prevention and 
care of chronic diseases in challenging settings. Program 
work in Marawi City includes screening to identify  
people with NCDs and those at risk of developing NCDs. 
Nurses and other healthcare providers are trained to  
lead “NCD clubs” to advance disease prevention and 
management through lifestyle changes and compliance 
with ongoing treatment.
The program also focuses on expanding access to  
needed clinical care and strengthening the ability of  
local healthcare systems to manage NCDs. In addition,  
campaigns are raising awareness and educating on the 
prevention and control of NCDs from the community  
to the national government level.ENGAGING EMPLOYEES  
AND COMMUNITIESWe are tackling the global 
NCD crisis on multiple fronts.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT49         SUPPORTING COMMUNITIESTo support this partnership, the Abbott Fund is providing 
$1 million in funding, and Abbott is donating rapid-testing 
technology, diabetes monitors and test strips to help 
advance these efforts to address diabetes in affected 
communities. Our direct investment in communities takes 
the form of cash and in-kind donations, as well as 
employee time. The value of our community investment 
was nearly $71 million in 2019.
Employee Donations and Matched Giving 
Abbott’s commitment to supporting communities is 
demonstrated through our employees’ passion for giving 
back. Abbott employees give generously of their time, 
expertise and resources, supporting numerous community- 
based initiatives worldwide. Our annual Employee Giving 
Campaign gives our employees an opportunity to donate. 
In 2019, 88 percent of Abbott employees donated to more 
than 7 ,161 nonprofit organizations. In the United States, 
the Abbott Fund Matching Grant Program matches  
our employees’ contributions to qualifying causes on a 
dollar-for-dollar basis. When these matching donations 
were included, the Employee Giving Campaign pledged a 
total of $6.71 million, surpassing 2018’s total of $6.58 million, 
to become the highest dollar amount raised in the history 
of our campaign. Throughout the year, Abbott employees are also able to 
donate to the thousands of organizations listed on our 
online employee giving portal. Abbott pays all fees associated 
with processing these donations, so that every cent our 
employees give goes to the charity of their choice. During 
2019, our employees contributed a total of $4.64 million  
to nonprofit organizations, including the Abbott match.
Employee Volunteering
In 2019, Abbott employees contributed a combined 37 ,734 
volunteer hours, supporting causes in Australia, Belgium, 
Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Germany, 
India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, 
the Netherlands, Peru, the Philippines, Russia, Rwanda, 
Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, Tanzania, Turkey, 
the United Kingdom and the United States.By inspiring young people to explore careers in science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) today, we can 
produce innovators for our industry tomorrow. We work 
with schools, governments, educational organizations  
and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) around the 
world to contribute to the STEM pipeline, leveraging the 
philanthropic resources of the Abbott Fund, as well as our 
employees’ time, skills and passion for volunteering.
During 2019, 397 of our people volunteered more than 
2,886 hours to our Operation Discovery and Family 
Science programs. Operation Discovery has had 1,820 
volunteers since its inception in 2002. Since 2006, 6,716 
Abbott scientists, engineers and other employees have 
now shared their expertise to support programs that 
advance STEM education around the world. The Abbott 
Fund has supported these efforts with donations of more 
than $59 million during this time.2019 SOCIAL INVESTING 
Cash contributions $  46,716,624
Time, employee volunteering 1,280,994
In-kind giving, product or service donations 16,092,024
Management oversight 6,556,411
Total $70,646,0521,725 
UNITS OF BLOOD  
DONATED BY EMPLOYEES  
IN 2019 SUPPORTED 
5,175 
PEOPLE IN NEEDABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT50        SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTStrengthening Communities at Risk from Hurricanes
Since 2006, Abbott and our partners, Feeding America and 
Direct Relief, have been working to prepare communities 
for hurricane season, positioning crucial supply packages 
in at-risk areas. Over the last 14 years, these packages have 
supplied desperately needed nutrition and healthcare to 
more than 640,000 people.
In 2019, Abbott employee volunteers worked closely with 
Feeding America to prepare 4,000 disaster relief packs 
with Abbott nutrition products for adults and children. 
We store these packs at regional food banks ready for 
deployment in the hours following a hurricane, targeting 
heavily impacted regions like Florida, Louisiana, Puerto 
Rico and Texas. Abbott products within the packs include 
Pedialyte® rehydration solutions, Ensure® and PediaSure® 
nutrition drinks, and ZonePerfect® bars. 
Abbott’s partnership with Direct Relief provides community 
health clinics with rehydration solutions and nutrition 
products that are distributed, along with first aid supplies 
and medicines following a disaster. First pioneered by 
Abbott, this initiative now includes contributions from 
many other healthcare companies, providing 75 clinics in 
the southern United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin 
Islands with the supplies required to treat 100 patients  
for three to five days.Providing Relief When Natural Disasters Strike
Besides working to prepare communities, Abbott aims to 
respond rapidly when natural disasters or other emergencies 
strike. In 2019, Abbott and the Abbott Fund donated  
more than $1.7 million in funding and in healthcare and 
nutritional products to address both immediate needs and 
longer-term recovery efforts following devastating events. 
These included hurricanes throughout the United States, 
Hurricane Dorian in the Bahamas and Cyclone Idai in 
southeast Africa. Over the past decade, our rapid response 
to earthquakes, typhoons and flooding worldwide has 
involved providing more than $50 million in funding and 
medical supplies.EXTERNAL RECOGNITION  
DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX 
We were named the global Industry Leader in 
Health Care Equipment and Supplies for seven 
consecutive years (2013–2019) for our strong 
environmental, social and economic performance.
FORTUNE’S  CHANGE THE WORLD LIST 
The success of our local supply chain shared impact 
program led to Abbott being named to Fortune 
magazine’s 2019 Change the World list, which 
recognizes companies that are delivering an 
important social or environmental impact through 
their core business strategy and operations.
FORTUNE’S MOST ADMIRED COMPANIES 
We were ranked No. 1 for Social Responsibility in 
our industry sector on Fortune’s Most Admired 
Companies list for six consecutive years (2014–2019).
BEST CORPORATE CITIZENS
Corporate Responsibility magazine named us among 
the top 100 companies for 11 consecutive years 
(2009–2019) and the healthcare sector leader  
in 2017.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWVALUING OUR PEOPLE
Developing Talented People .............................................  53
Governance ........................................................................  54
Our Workplace Environment ...........................................  54
Talent Management Approach .........................................  55
Diversity and Inclusion ....................................................... 58
Compensation and Benefits .............................................  60
Listening to Our Employees .............................................. 61
Employee Health, Safety and Wellness ........................... 63
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51          VALUING OUR PEOPLESECTION 4
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
STEM BLUEPRINT
SHAPING THE  
FUTURE OF STEM
Women are a critical factor in solving the world’s biggest problems. 
Yet, in the United States, they make up only 24 percent of the 
workforce in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM).  
At Abbott, women make up about 40 percent of our workforce,  
but we can do better. We’re excited to share our STEM Blueprint — a model of ideas and best practices for launching a high school 
STEM internship program. With our “each one, reach one” focus, 
we know the impact even one positive experience with STEM can 
have on a young person. Our STEM Blueprint is shaping a future  
in which girls will have opportunities around the world.> STEM INTERNSHIP BLUEPRINT
Our STEM Internship Blueprint is a model for 
increasing STEM opportunities for underrepresented 
groups, such as women and minorities.
97%
OF OUR HIGH  
SCHOOL INTERNS  
STUDY STEM IN  
COLLEGEABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT53          VALUING OUR PEOPLEThe sustainability of Abbott’s business depends on 
attracting, engaging and developing talented people  
who share our vision and values. That’s why we offer 
innovative programs, benefits and resources that address 
the diverse needs of our employees, reward their efforts, 
help them build their best careers at Abbott and provide 
solid financial security.
We take a collaborative approach, listening to our 
employees to understand their needs and connect with 
them to build a working environment that meets those 
needs. One of our key priorities is to enable our employees 
in such a way that working at Abbott gives them the 
opportunity to become the best people they can be, to 
receive competitive compensation and benefits for their 
work, and to feel part of a community, doing meaningful 
work side by side with committed colleagues.
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT“Abbott is recognized for being  
a great place to work. Many 
factors influence that, including 
our commitment to diversity  
and inclusion of all forms. We’re  
a caring organization, and our 
employees count on us for 
support. Our employees work 
hard every day to make a 
difference, and we take pride  
in helping them reach  
their potential.”
MARY MORELAND
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, 
HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPING TALENTED PEOPLE
GLOBAL WORKPLACE DIVERSITY
FEMALE SHARE OF TOTAL WORKFORCE43%
TOTAL MANAGEMENT POSITIONS FILLED BY WOMEN39%
* These percentages are as of December 31, 2019. Percentages represent a  
count of U.S. employees, excluding the rapid diagnostics business. MANAGEMENT POSITIONS FILLED BY WOMEN  41%
MANAGEMENT POSITIONS FILLED BY MINORITIES  36%WORKPLACE DIVERSITY IN THE U.S.*
FEMALE SHARE OF WORKPLACE46%ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT54          VALUING OUR PEOPLEGOVERNANCE
Responsibility for Abbott’s talent management sits with 
our Executive Vice President, Human Resources, a 
corporate officer who reports directly to our President  
and CEO and receives reports from senior leaders 
specializing in different aspects of human resources. 
Abbott’s President and CEO leads our Executive  
Inclusion Council, reflecting the fact that our commitment 
to diversity and inclusion begins at the top. The council 
monitors the hiring and advancement of women and 
minorities in U.S. management positions and works to 
promote an inclusive work environment for people with 
disabilities at all our businesses and locations.
OUR WORKPLACE  
ENVIRONMENT 
Abbott has approximately 107 ,0001 employees serving  
people in 160 countries. Our promise to each of these 
employees is to provide a workplace environment that:
• Promotes diversity and inclusion
•  Offers extensive professional development, mentoring 
and training programs• Encourages and supports work-life harmony
•  Offers competitive compensation and benefits tailored  
to each market
• Protects human rights
• Offers wellness programs
• Contributes to employee health and safety
Protecting Human Rights
Abbott believes in the dignity of every human being  
and respects individual rights, as set forth in the United 
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our 
mission and core values reflect these principles, and  
they are reinforced through our employment, ethics  
and procurement policies, which also apply to all our 
suppliers. We believe that governments have the primary 
responsibility for respecting, protecting and promoting 
the human rights of their citizens. However, Abbott 
recognizes that companies play a supporting role in 
promoting human rights within their spheres of influence.
We contribute to the fulfillment of human rights through 
compliance with laws and regulations wherever we 
operate, as well as through our policies and programs.Our global guidelines include:
• Providing a healthy and safe working environment
•  Complying with child labor laws and laws prohibiting 
any form of forced, bonded or indentured labor, or  
prison labor
•  Promoting workforce diversity and not discriminating 
against any employee for reasons such as race, religion, 
color, age, gender, ethnicity, disability, marital status and 
sexual orientation, in addition to any other status 
protected by local law
•  Not tolerating harassment or harsh or inhumane 
treatment in the workplace, including providing 
harassment training for employees 
• Protecting individual privacy
•  Providing compensation and benefits that are competitive; 
comply with applicable laws for minimum wages, 
overtime hours and mandated benefits; and provide  
a fair income in the context of each market
•  Encouraging open communication between management 
and employees
Every Abbott employee in the United States is required to 
take anti-harassment training every two years. Our 
employees last took the training in 2018 and will do so 
again in 2020.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT55          VALUING OUR PEOPLESuccession Planning
Abbott’s Board of Directors and senior management teams 
place a strong emphasis on succession planning and talent 
planning and on ensuring diversity and inclusion through 
this process. The Board conducts an annual Talent 
Management Review (TMR) to assess critical positions, 
identify succession plans and create development plans. 
We intentionally identify destination roles that align  
with an employee’s career trajectory. This helps us make 
sure current and future leaders are building the skills they  
will need for success.
Similar succession planning takes place at every level of 
the company. The senior leadership team holds divisional, 
functional and regional TMRs, each of which sets out  
to identify “Ready Now” and “Ready Future” successors. 
Our people managers also have annual talent  
development goals.
Career Development
We have an integrated global talent management process 
that is designed to identify talented people at any level  
of our organization, assess them accurately, and provide 
equal and consistent opportunities for them to develop 
their skills. It incorporates mentoring, skills assessments, 
performance appraisals and career pathing.All employees participate in our annual performance 
management process and work with their managers  
to create talent profiles and development plans that 
support their particular career objectives. We provide 
job-specific training, broader leadership training and 
other development opportunities to help our employees 
meet these objectives.
Every Abbott employee has access to Career Connect,  
a personalized career and development planning tool. 
Career Connect helps employees to identify their  
career priorities, have more productive conversations  
with managers, gain the experience and skills they  
need through on-the-job learning, and draw up clear 
development plans for achieving their goals. 
Due to the global scope of our business, many of our 
employees work or travel outside of their home countries. 
Cultivating the ability to engage people across different 
cultures is therefore a priority for our business. It’s also  
an important development opportunity for our employees. 
Abbott’s Cultural Navigator® internet-based toolkit is  
free for all employees. It increases their understanding  
of different countries and cultures and provides guidance 
on business practices and social etiquette for more than 
100 countries.Recruitment
Abbott is committed to building a diverse talent pipeline 
that can meet the needs of our businesses. 
Our integrated approach includes building a compelling 
employer brand, both through our own digital properties 
and through other channels; reimagining our candidate 
and employee experiences; partnering with academic 
institutions and associations that align with our needs; 
and providing opportunities for talented college students 
to develop their careers at Abbott.
We build our employer brand through targeted social 
media platforms, such as LinkedIn®. These enable us  
to reach and engage with talented people who have an 
appetite for innovating with a purpose. Our career site 
uses artificial intelligence (AI) to simplify the experience 
of searching for roles at our company through tailored 
content, recommended opportunities and a personalized 
chatbot that helps candidates identify the most relevant 
opportunities for them. TALENT MANAGEMENT  
APPROACHABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT56          VALUING OUR PEOPLEThe academic partners and institutions that help Abbott 
identify talent include:
•  Association of Latino Professionals in Finance and 
Accounting (ALPFA)
• Black Engineer of the Year Award (BEYA)
• IMT Ghaziabad and NITIE in India
• Nanyang Technological University in Singapore
• National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE)
• National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
• Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA)
• Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
• Society of Women Engineers (SWE)
•  Zhejiang University and Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
in China Our internship program helps Abbott identify and recruit 
talent at an early career stage, giving students hands-on 
experience working with Abbott employees on real-life 
business projects. Each of our U.S. interns is now paired 
with a mentor who has a similar discipline of study and 
background and can help the intern navigate Abbott’s 
organization, understand the company vision and prepare 
for a career with our company. We have set a goal of 
converting at least 50 percent of interns into full-time 
Abbott employees. 
Our cooperative education program extends the experience 
of working with Abbott to students prior to graduation. 
The program invites promising students to alternate their 
classes with full-time employment in Abbott’s medical 
devices business.Performance Updates
Employee Development
Our performance and career progression data continue  
to show that employees who participate in our talent  
programs outperform their peers at Abbott, are more  
frequently promoted and are identified as successors  
more often. 
In 2019, we strengthened our career and development 
planning tool, Career Connect, with the launch of two 
new features. An employee can now use Career Connect 
to facilitate interviews with colleagues working in a  
role he or she has an interest in. These discussions help 
employees learn what skills they need to develop to 
succeed in that role. Employees can also apply for 
short-term LearningGigs, part-time assignments that  
offer the opportunity to develop and apply relevant new 
skills through their work at Abbott. All Abbott employees 
now have access to our global training site, which offers 
technical and soft skills through online courses from 
LinkedIn LearningSM, Skillsoft®, EBSCO and MindTools®. ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT57          VALUING OUR PEOPLETalent Pipeline
Our career site continues to drive increases in engagement 
and user satisfaction through AI-driven recommendations. 
In 2019, the site had more than 2.7 million visits, a 37 percent 
increase compared to the previous year. The personalized 
chatbot that we launched on the site in 2019 generated an 
85 percent satisfaction rating among users. We also launched 
a new app to guide candidates through our interview process, 
which provides real-time updates on schedules and logistics.  
We have also invested in improving the candidate journey 
by elevating the skills of our hiring managers. More than 
2,000 hiring managers completed additional training 
courses during 2019, with our training program receiving 
a 95 percent satisfaction rating. Our new HiringManager 
app provides access to resources, such as videos on 
interview best practices, interview guides and online 
learning courses tackling unconscious bias.  Our internship program for students has been ranked as 
the No. 1 healthcare internship program in the United 
States for the fourth consecutive year and is also certified 
as the top internship program in Ireland. In 2019, more 
than 60 percent of undergraduate interns and 70 percent 
of our MBA interns in the United States took up full-time 
roles at Abbott, exceeding our conversion target for  
the program.
Our mobile app for interns, which helps them navigate  
life at Abbott, is now available in 12 countries. In 2019,  
the app was used by 600 Abbott interns, who published 
956 unique posts and generated more than 13,000 clicks 
and just under 14,000 comments.
Abbott’s science, technology, engineering and math 
(STEM) internship program has promoted STEM careers 
to high school students since its launch in 2012. Its 
objective is to increase the number of students pursuing 
STEM-related careers and contribute to a more diverse 
talent pipeline for Abbott. Of the initial group of interns 
from 2012, 11 of them are working for Abbott, and our goal 
is to increase that number every year. In 2019, 70 percent 
of those participating in the program were female and  
68 percent were from minority groups, up from 66 percent 
female and 58 percent minority groups in 2018.In 2019, we created our STEM Internship Blueprint, 
offered it to companies and provided insights from our 
experience. This Blueprint is a first-of-its-kind resource  
for any business looking to increase diversity in STEM 
through high school internships. In addition to our high 
school STEM program, each summer, Abbott partners 
with iBIO to host a STEM girls summer camp, with  
the goal of improving girls’ interest and engagement  
in STEM-related fields.We have set a goal of converting at  
least 50 percent of interns into full-time  
Abbott employees.  ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT58          VALUING OUR PEOPLEAbbott is committed to developing a workplace that is 
inclusive for all, regardless of race, gender, age, sexual 
orientation, disability or nationality.
Our nine employee networks play a vital role in building 
an inclusive culture across all Abbott operations. They 
help expand visibility and opportunity for their more  
than 8,500 members from minority and other potentially 
disadvantaged groups, working with our Diversity and 
Inclusion team to help tackle unconscious bias. An Abbott 
corporate officer serves as an executive sponsor for each 
of these networks, helping to align their objectives with 
Abbott’s business strategies.We operate the following employee networks:
• Advancing Professionals Network (APN)
• Asian Leadership and Cultural Network (ALCN)
• Black Business Network (BBN)
•  Flex Network (employees with part-time and  
flexible schedules)
•  LA VOICE Network (supporting Hispanic and  
Latino employees)
• PRIDE (supporting LGBTQ employees)
• Veterans Network
• Women Leaders of Abbott (WLA)
• Women in STEM
Ensuring an inclusive environment for people with 
disabilities requires raising awareness of issues among 
both managers and employees. Abbott works with local 
partners to provide training on the experiences of 
employees with disabilities and to help avoid unconscious 
bias in our hiring process.
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTINCLUSIVE LEADERSHIP  
•  In the past 12 months, Abbott has 
increased our percentage of women 
participating in leadership development 
programs to 47 percent, up from  
38 percent the previous year. 
•  Up to 60 percent of our leaders have 
received unconscious-bias training.
•  More than 1,500 employees worldwide 
participated in a professional development 
event on Leading with Confidence and 
Influence, hosted by Abbott Diversity 
and Inclusion and the Women Leaders  
of Abbott employee network.DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIONABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT59          VALUING OUR PEOPLEPerformance Updates
In 2019, we delivered new programs focused on employee 
growth and engagement, as well as inclusive leadership. 
We place a particular emphasis on mentoring, with a 
formal program that matches mentors with protégés for 
12-month partnerships. In 2019, we saw an 86 percent 
increase in the number of mentoring partnerships 
established among employees.
These partnerships help mentors and protégés develop 
their skills, share knowledge of Abbott and broaden  
their networks. We have mentorship programs designed  
to provide career support to newly hired minority and 
female leaders, as well as to improve our global disability 
outreach. Over the last year, Abbott has increased  
our percentage of women participating in leadership 
development programs to 47 percent, up from 38 percent 
the previous year. Abbott’s commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion 
is consistently recognized by external organizations:
•  Working Mother magazine included Abbott on its 2019 
list of the best companies for the 19th consecutive year.
•  DiversityInc magazine named Abbott one of its top 10 
companies for diversity in the United States on its 2019 
list. We’ve been on the magazine’s top 50 list for  
16 consecutive years.
•  The U.S. National Association for Female Executives 
(NAFE) recognized Abbott as a top company for 
executive women for the 12th consecutive year.
•  For the first time, Vault.com named Abbott as having  
one of the best internship programs for diversity.
•  Fortune magazine recognized Abbott in its top 100 best 
workplaces for diversity.
•  Abbott achieved a 90 percent rating on the Human 
Rights Campaign’s 2020 Corporate Equality Index, 
showing that our business values LGBTQ workplace 
inclusion.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT60          VALUING OUR PEOPLEOur compensation policy has a vital role to play in 
attracting the best and brightest minds to work at Abbott 
and in building an environment of equal opportunity  
for all.
We apply the following principles to help achieve 
consistent, fair compensation packages that reward 
performance:
•  Base salaries and benefit packages are competitive in  
the markets where we compete for employees and are 
appropriate to each market.
•  Annual and long-term incentive packages are linked 
directly to business and individual performance, with a 
balance of short- and long-term financial and strategic 
objectives.
•  All employees should have access to insurance covering 
long-term care. 
•  Sick-pay benefit always allows for leave to care  
for parents. 
•  Our approach to compensation encourages behavior  
that is consistent with the ethical values in Abbott’s 
Code of Business Conduct.
The fundamental principle of compensation at Abbott is 
that it should be driven by employees’ performance and 
expertise. We have procedures and processes to ensure 
consistency in compensation across similar roles in 
relevant markets. As a result, Abbott believes that policies are in place so our employees receive comparable 
compensation, regardless of race or gender. Abbott has 
procedures that encourage frequent manager and 
employee dialogue around performance and compensation, 
and we make a range of channels available for employees 
to raise any concerns in this area. 
One component of our total compensation philosophy is 
to enable employees to build an ownership stake in our 
company. We operate several programs to facilitate this:
•  Abbott’s global long-term incentive program grants 
restricted stock units (RSUs) to employees, generally 
beginning at the manager level. Over time, when the 
awards vest, they are paid out in shares of Abbott 
common stock (except in countries that require payment 
in cash). In 2019, Abbott granted RSUs to more than 
11,000 employees in 70 countries.
•  In the United States, employees can invest in Abbott 
stock through our 401(k) program, which provides a  
5 percent match to an employee’s 2 percent contribution 
to the program.
•  Outside the United States, most countries offer employees 
the opportunity to purchase stock at a discount through 
the Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The ESPP  
is open to all employees, except corporate officers, in the 
countries where we offer it. In 2019, 147 Abbott affiliates 
in 61 countries participated in the ESPP .Employee eligibility for nonsalary benefits follows local 
regulations and practices. In most countries, this means 
we cover all full-time employees and part-time employees 
working more than a certain number of hours. Outside of 
the United States, we provide benefit programs that are 
above and beyond government requirements. Our global 
Human Resources (HR) teams work to identify the 
particular needs of employees in different countries, so  
we can deliver innovative solutions that make a tangible 
difference and strengthen our value proposition for 
employees on a local basis.
Our first-of-its-kind Freedom 2 Save program helps 
employees with student loans save for retirement while 
they make their loan payments, providing an innovative 
solution to the debt burden for young people in the  
United States. Under the program, employees who put at 
least 2 percent of their eligible pay toward their student 
loan debt can receive a 5 percent contribution from Abbott 
into their 401(k) accounts, without any 401(k) contributions 
of their own. This means that the participating employees 
do not sacrifice saving for their future while paying off 
their debt. More than 920 employees have enrolled in the 
program since it launched in 2018.COMPENSATION AND BENEFITSABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT61          VALUING OUR PEOPLEOur Approach
We conduct regular surveys to ask our employees about 
the experience of working at Abbott and track their 
engagement with our business strategy. This is an 
opportunity to learn where we can make meaningful 
improvements. These surveys include division culture 
surveys and our annual Employee Living Fully survey.  
In 2019, this survey was sent to approximately 72,000 
employees and received 7 ,673 responses (an 11 percent 
response rate). We achieved an engagement score of  
84.33 percent, reflecting the proportion of respondents 
who answered “strongly agree” or “agree” to three 
statements: “comment positively about Abbott,” “proud  
to work at Abbott” and “Abbott is a workplace where 
employees can continually maximize their potential.”
We also participated in the Great Places to Work® survey. 
Great Place to Work® invites around 5,000 Abbott employees 
in the United States to participate in its annual survey of 
working experiences and employee engagement.Besides surveys, Abbott relies on a variety of formal and 
informal channels to gather employee feedback. These 
include an annual all-employee meeting with our President 
and CEO, where a significant portion of the meeting is 
dedicated to addressing employee questions and comments. 
Our senior leaders also respond to employee comments 
and concerns at lunch-and-learn meetings. In our Code  
of Business Conduct, we emphasize the importance of 
employees reporting concerns and the process for escalating 
them. This commits us to creating an environment where 
employees can do so in good faith without fear of retaliation. 
The more than 8,500 employees involved in our  
employee networks have a range of additional forums  
for raising common interests and concerns, including 
recommendations for programs and development 
opportunities. Employee Well-Being
Abbott takes a holistic approach to employee well-being. 
We offer programs that support work-life harmony and 
promote good health, and we make many of these 
programs available to our employees’ family members.
We pay particularly close attention to the mental health  
of our employees. We take an integrated approach that 
includes addressing causes of stress, both within and 
outside the workplace. Our company-funded employee 
assistance program (EAP) provides free expert mental 
health support for employees and their families through 
one-on-one support, seminars, online courses, crisis 
intervention services and workplace emergency response. 
Our LiveLifeWell integrated wellness program, available 
in the United States, caters to the mental, financial and 
physical health of employees and their spouses through 
assessments and programs. LiveLifeWell also offers an  
app to help users track progress toward well-being goals, 
such as nutrition, exercise, resiliency and sleep. The app 
provides access to screenings, health coaches, counseling, 
caregiver support, employee assistance, resiliency skills 
and stress management. We know the app is valuable 
because approximately 70 percent of employees and 
eligible spouses participated in LiveLifeWell in 2019,  
and it has helped them take more than 15.9 billion steps.LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEESABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT62          VALUING OUR PEOPLE ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur most popular and long-standing physical wellness 
program is Exercise Across Abbott, which encourages our 
employees to team up with colleagues and compete for 
prizes by tracking how many minutes they exercise each 
day. Around 24 percent of Abbott employees across 82 
countries took part in 2019. Seventy-five percent of teams 
consistently increased their weekly exercise for six weeks.
We recognize that flexible working is often an essential 
enabler of employee well-being. Abbott offers flexible 
work schedules in 60 countries, including flex time, 
summer hours, part-time arrangements, job sharing, 
compressed work weeks and telecommuting. Abbott’s 
Freedom to Work program, available to U.S. employees, 
offers those considering retirement the option to scale 
back their hours and change their responsibilities without 
affecting their benefits. More than 1,700 employees have 
enrolled in Freedom to Work since the program launched 
in 2008. Our comprehensive childcare programs include on-site 
childcare, parenting and counseling services, as well as 
nationwide childcare discounts and backup care resources. 
We offer maternity and paternity leave for new parents, 
and we increased the amount of maternity leave available 
by two weeks in 2019. We also provide Milk Stork® breast 
milk delivery services for business-traveling mothers. 
Since 2015, Abbott has also provided financial support  
for adoption of up to $20,000 per child. We recognize that flexible working is often  
an essential enabler of employee well-being.  
SUPPORTING OUR EMPLOYEES
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have 
provided different kinds of support and resources  
to our employees to help them stay connected,  
healthy and safe. For more details, please see 
COVID-19: Meeting a Global Health Challenge  
Head On on page 18.
• New safety guidelines at our sites
•  Expanded employee assistance  
programs globally
•  Opportunities to work from home and flexible 
working hours
•  Counseling services for physical, financial and 
emotional care 
•  Meditation sessions and webinars on managing  
stress and anxiety during uncertainty 
•  Local community resources, including where to  
find childcare and elder care 
•  Help with making the transition from working  
at home to back in the officeABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT63          VALUING OUR PEOPLEEMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY  
AND WELLNESS
Governance
The health, safety and wellness of our employees and 
contract workers is a priority for Abbott. We have 
embedded this priority at every level of our business 
through our integrated Environment, Health and Safety 
(EHS) management system. The EHS organization 
provides governance for health, safety and wellness, 
which includes ownership of our EHS management  
and technical standards published on our website . 
Abbott’s EHS Leadership Council governs our EHS 
organization, which includes EHS professionals, who 
manage operations at our 113 manufacturing and research 
and development (R&D) sites, and commercial EHS 
professionals, who provide support to field-based teams, 
offices and warehouses across 80 countries. We have 
divided our commercial EHS organization into six 
geographical regions, with each region represented by an 
EHS regional manager. Our operations EHS professionals 
are aligned according to business unit. 
We require each Abbott manufacturing facility to have a 
designated occupational healthcare professional, who has 
knowledge of the site and its operations and is responsible 
for implementing an appropriate occupational health 
program. There are more than 120 Abbott occupational 
health professionals who oversee our employees’ health 
and well-being, treat occupational illnesses and injuries, 
and maintain employee medical records.For full details of our EHS governance structure, including 
the groups that support implementation of our EHS 
programs and initiatives, see the Safeguarding Our 
Environment section on page 69 . 
Management Approach
We maintain global policies and standards for managing 
employee health and safety. Technical and management 
experts regularly update these policies and standards  
in response to regulatory changes and evolving global 
requirements and expectations. We focus on improving 
performance, ensuring compliance, reducing risk and 
embedding a culture of safety across our operations.
We regularly evaluate Abbott commercial operations, 
manufacturing and R&D sites through internal compliance 
assurance audits. These audits assess performance in the 
following categories:
• Health and safety
• Strategic planning
• Risk assessment/self-assessment
• Business integration
• Training and awareness
• Communication and information
• Performance measuresOur senior leadership uses Abbott’s EHS Scorecard to 
monitor health and safety performance and progress 
toward our 2020 targets. Each month, the scorecard 
captures important data, such as the number of EHS 
incidents, lost-time case rate, recordable case rate  
and accidents per million miles (APMM) driven. We 
communicate the scorecard data across our organization, 
identify where corrective actions are needed and ensure 
that these actions are completed on time.
We have a separate Global Health Scorecard that our site 
and divisional leaders use to track implementation of  
our occupational health and well-being initiatives. The 
Global Health Scorecard is used to monitor the annual 
occupational health and wellness performance of our 
manufacturing and R&D sites. It uses a dynamic scoring 
system, with the requirements for each site increasing  
its score year over year. In alignment with industry best 
practices, a new scorecard that includes the eight pillars of 
health was developed in 2019 for implementation in 2020.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT64          VALUING OUR PEOPLE ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFostering a Positive Health and Safety Culture
Building a health and safety culture depends on engaging 
employees at all levels of our organization. We do this 
through our EHS policy and technical and management 
standards, which include:
•  Our Risk Assessment and Self-Assessment management 
standard, which includes requirements for assessing and 
mitigating health and safety risks
•  Our Training and Awareness management standard, 
which includes requirements for employees to be aware 
of health and safety risks and have knowledge of 
job-specific hazards
•  Technical standards covering specific areas, such as 
Fleet Safety, Occupational Health Services, Confined 
Spaces, Ergonomics, Electrical Safety, Biological Safety 
and Working at Heights, among others
A full list of our EHS management and technical standards 
is available on our website . You can find more details of 
the training and awareness programs that we use to raise 
awareness of our policies and standards in the Safeguarding 
Our Environment section on page 69 .  We strive to operate a workplace that is not only safe  
and healthy but also fosters well-being and ensures that  
all employees feel engaged. Our occupational health 
professionals conduct regular screenings and health 
education programs, identifying and minimizing  
occupational risks. Our first aid, weight reduction and 
stress management programs are available to all Abbott 
employees. We also offer team-based global competitions 
throughout the year to encourage employee movement 
and exercise, such as our annual Walk With Friends and 
Exercise Across Abbott campaigns. Additional events  
are also held at site and regional levels. We operate a broad range of programs, standards 
and initiatives designed to support wellness at work:
•  An ergonomic program through which our EHS 
professionals track injuries, assess the working 
environment and implement solutions 
•  Active-pause programs to encourage stretching 
during the workday, along with targeted initiatives 
to increase flexibility and core strength
•  Global engineering standards for suitable illumination, 
which are measured and monitored by our  
EHS organization
•  Collaborative work spaces with natural light and 
comfortable furniture
•  Regular monitoring of noise to ensure exposures 
are below local regulatory limits or the thresholds 
set by the American Conference of Governmental 
Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH), whichever  
is lower
•  Auditing and preventive maintenance of air 
filtration systems 
•  Global engineering standards for humidification 
and dehumidification
•  Compliance with the standards of the American 
Society of Heating, Refrigerating and  
Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) on 
indoor workplace temperaturesSUPPORTING HEALTH AND  
WELL-BEINGABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT65          VALUING OUR PEOPLEStrategy 
We track our health and safety performance against two 
priority safety goals with corresponding 2020 targets.  
Our first goal is to reduce the number of incidents that 
result in time off work, measured by lost-time case rate. 
Our 2020 lost-time case rate target is 0.15 per 100 workers, 
which includes employees and contract workers. The 
second goal is to reduce the number of vehicle accidents 
involving our employees, measured in accidents per 
million miles (APMM). Our 2020 APMM-driven rate 
target is 4.0. 
Our EHS professionals develop programs to drive 
continuous progress toward these targets and provide 
support to all Abbott employees and contracted workers, 
including those who are part of recent acquisitions.
Looking to the future, we are working to identify our 
next-generation health and safety targets, and we are 
implementing an occupational health goal to advance 
focus on worker well-being.Progress on 2020 Targets
The lost-time case rate records work-related injuries  
that require days away from work. In 2019, our lost-time 
case rate increased compared to the previous year.  
This upward trend is a result of incorporating injury  
data from our recently acquired rapid diagnostics 
business. As we implement Abbott EHS programs and 
standards across this business, we expect our lost-time 
case rate to trend downward. 2020 – LOST-TIME CASE RATE GOAL: 0.15
2019 – 0.30
2018 – 0.24LOST-TIME CASE RATE*
EMPLOYEE AND CONTRACTOR
2017 – 0.23
2016 – 0.19
*Legacy Alere is included in Health and Safety metrics beginning in 2019.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT66         VALUING OUR PEOPLEOur ultimate objective is the elimination of all work-related 
injuries for Abbott’s employees and contract workers.  
For example, our diabetes care manufacturing facility in 
Donegal, Ireland, shows what’s possible. The facility 
completed an extensive facility expansion over the past  
two years with zero lost-time injuries. As a result of the 
high standards of employee safety at the facility, more  
than 270,000 working hours elapsed without any worker 
injuries. Likewise, our nutrition manufacturing facility  
in Sligo, Ireland, also completed a major site relocation  
in 2019 with zero lost-time injuries. 
We have developed a global safe-driving program as part 
of our efforts to reduce road accidents across Abbott. The 
program is administered by EHS personnel in each region. 
It applies to all Abbott businesses and all employees.
We aim to drive continuous reductions in APMM  
through our safe-driving program, which promotes safer 
driving behaviors among our field-based employees and 
raises awareness of the dangers of distracted driving, 
including mobile phone use. In 2019, the program drove a 
7 percent reduction in our global APMM to 3.8, achieving 
our 2020 target ahead of schedule.22020 – ACCIDENTS PER MILLION MILES GOAL: 4.0
2019 – 3.8
2018 – 4.1ACCIDENTS PER MILLION MILES*
EMPLOYEE
2017 – 4.9
2016 – 5.3SAFE-DRIVING PROGRAM
7%
REDUCTION IN ACCIDENTS  
PER MILLION MILES  
FROM 2018 TO 2019*
 * Legacy Alere is included in Health and Safety metrics beginning in 2019.
Goal achieved.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT67          VALUING OUR PEOPLEHealth, Safety and Wellness Performance Updates
Road Safety
Our U.S. fleet includes around 2,500 leased vehicles, 
which we replace every three years. We have introduced 
new vehicle safety features in our U.S. fleet with the  
target of rolling them out to all commercial vehicles in  
the United States by 2021. In 2019, 70 percent of Abbott’s 
commercial U.S. fleet had these features, which include 
adaptive cruise control; automatic braking; reverse 
cameras; and collision, lane departure and  
blind-spot warnings.
Over the last two years, the accident rate for vehicles 
equipped with these features has been 28 percent lower 
than the average for our overall U.S. fleet. Besides 
increasing safety for our employees, these features have 
reduced costs to the business resulting from vehicle 
damage and lost-time injuries.
In India, where Abbott has thousands of field sales 
representatives, our vehicle safety program emphasizes 
motorcycle safety, in particular the need to wear a helmet. 
In 2019, we launched a Helmet Observation Program  
for India. This helps to ensure compliance with our 
requirement that all riders of two-wheeled vehicles  
wear a helmet with the chin strap securely fastened. Abbott provides two new helmets for every one of our 
sales employees in India: one for the employee and  
one for any pillion rider. The success of our Helmet  
Observation Program has played a significant role in 
reducing the severity of injuries during the year.
Recordable Case Rate
Besides our priority 2020 targets, Abbott’s EHS Scorecard 
also tracks our recordable case rate. This category of 
incidents includes any work-related injuries resulting in 
death, days away from work, restricted work or transfer  
to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, loss of 
consciousness, and significant illness or injury diagnosed  
by a licensed healthcare professional. 
Abbott’s recordable case rate increased from 0.40 to 0.47 
from 2018 to 2019. The main driver of the increase in case 
rate was largely influenced by increased transparency and 
reporting of commercial two-wheeled vehicle accidents in 
India. To reduce our recordable case rates, 2019 initiatives 
have included targeted road safety programs in India and 
integrating Abbott’s EHS standards and policies into our 
newly acquired rapid diagnostics business.38MANUFACTURING AND R&D  
SITES HAD NO LOST-TIME INJURIES 
IN 2019
21MANUFACTURING AND R&D  
SITES HAVE OPERATED WITHOUT 
ANY INJURIES SINCE 2017EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY  
IS A TOP PRIORITY
In 2019, we are proud to report:ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT68          VALUING OUR PEOPLEFatalities 
Sadly, two Abbott employees lost their lives in 2019 as a 
result of accidents that occurred while traveling for work. 
Our priority is to incorporate safety measures across  
all aspects of our business, and we have a constant 
commitment to keep our employees healthy and safe. 
Targeting Root Cause of Accidents
Analysis of our 2018 and 2019 health and safety data 
shows that the major causes of injury among Abbott 
employees are vehicle accidents; slips, trips and falls;  
and ergonomic-related injuries. We responded to  
these findings in 2019 by launching targeted programs  
and awareness campaigns to reduce these different  
injury causes.
We are also exploring emerging technologies that can help 
to reduce the risk of injury to our employees and contract 
workers. For example, at our nutrition manufacturing 
facility in Casa Grande, Arizona, we have trialed robotic 
technology to conduct internal inspections of tanks. Early 
indications are that this approach is safer and more 
efficient and produces higher-quality results. Occupational Health and Wellness 
We monitor the impact of our health and wellness 
programs through our occupational injury and illness 
frequency rate, which measures reported cases of illness 
resulting from work, including minor cases that require 
first aid only. Since 2015, our occupational illness frequency 
rate has remained at 0.2 illnesses reported per million 
working hours. 
Our Global Occupational Health Services (GOHS) 
programs aim to address the health and well-being of  
our employees in and out of work. During 2019, our 
occupational health and safety professionals completed 
more than 38,000 medical surveillance exams and  
165,000 health education engagements (a 25 percent 
increase from the prior year) and trained 6,200 employees 
in first aid, AED usage and CPR.
Sixty-eight manufacturing and R&D sites achieved the 
2019 occupational health target to promote health and 
well-being activities and met the four core occupational 
health requirements and 13 health offerings. In 2019,  
flu prevention and seasonal flu vaccination were the most 
implemented health offerings. Other frequently implemented 
health offerings included completion of applicable 
medical surveillance assessments, absence management 
programs for work-related injuries and illnesses, and 
health screenings with targeted health programs. For example, Abbott’s commercial organization in 
Pakistan identified a high incidence of hepatitis B within 
the community as a health risk. In 2019, Abbott responded 
by launching a targeted wellness program focused on 
screening and vaccinating for the disease. Ninety percent 
of our employees at the site participated in this free 
screening and vaccination program. 
1. This includes Alere employees.
2. Legacy Alere is included in Health and Safety metrics beginning in 2019.We strive to operate a workplace that not  
only fosters well-being but is safe and healthy  
for all employees.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTSAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENT
Protecting a Healthy Environment ...................................  71
Governance ..........................................................................  71
Strategy ...............................................................................  72
Managing Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities .....  75
Reducing Energy and Emissions ......................................  78
Protecting Water Resources ............................................  83
Extended Producer Responsibility ..................................  89
Holistic Approach to Reduce Operational Waste .........  90
Sustainable Life Cycles With Products and Packaging ....  95
Environmental Investment and Compliance ...................  97SECTION 5
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
WATER-SAVING PROJECTS
PRESERVING  
WATER 
RESOURCES
Water is a critical natural resource, and  
we are committed to managing its use in  
a responsible and efficient manner. Just  
as people look for ways to preserve water 
resources in their own homes and communities, 
we explore new and inventive ways to facilitate 
access to this precious resource in our  
operations and in the communities where  
we operate. 
We collect rainwater, modify our cooling and  
production systems, recycle water in many 
ways, and even use robots to detect leaks in 
places where it’s impossible or unsafe for 
humans to go. We embrace water conservation 
closely, knowing the impact it has on the health 
of a person, a community and the world.775  
MILLION
GALLONS
OF WATER RECYCLED IN 2019
> GUJARAT, INDIA
We’re dedicated to protecting water 
resources all around the world, including 
in Gujarat, India, the location of one of  
our nutrition manufacturing sites.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT71          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENT ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPROTECTING A  
HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT 
Abbott is committed to safeguarding a healthy environment 
by reducing the environmental impacts of our business 
across our value chain. This commitment shapes the  
way we source, design, manufacture and distribute our 
products, and it forms the basis for our environmental 
management systems and governance.Abbott’s environment governance and management 
systems are part of an integrated Environment, Health  
and Safety (EHS) approach. Our EHS strategy focuses  
on identifying and mitigating EHS-related risk, ensuring 
business continuity and addressing our stakeholders’ 
expectations that Abbott is a responsible corporate 
citizen. It includes systems and targets for reducing our 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, our water use, and  
the volume and impact of our waste. 
Our EHS management and governance systems ensure 
that we incorporate environmental considerations into 
our day-to-day planning and business processes, with 
clear lines of accountability and senior-level leadership 
and support. In 2019, our EHS organization began 
reporting directly to the Senior Vice President, Quality 
Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services, to 
shorten lines of accountability and strengthen senior-level 
leadership support. The Senior Vice President is a senior 
corporate officer who reports to our CEO and leads our 
EHS management efforts. “Everything we do at Abbott is 
geared toward helping people live 
their best lives. Our integrated 
approach to environment, health 
and safety management shapes 
the way we do business and  
allows us to deliver on our promise 
to protect the health and well-being 
of our employees, communities 
and the environment.” 
SCOTT HOUSE
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, 
QUALITY ASSURANCE, REGULATORY  
AND ENGINEERING SERVICES2019 COMPLETED ENVIRONMENTAL  
IMPACT REDUCTION PROJECTS
~$800,000   
ANNUAL SAVINGS80 ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT REDUCTION 
PROJECTS COMPLETED 33 SITES ACROSS  
10 COUNTRIES
$
GOVERNANCEABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT72          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTWe implement our EHS programs and initiatives through 
three internal organizations. 
•  The Global Operations Council (GOC) oversees the 
execution of Abbott’s operations strategy in each of  
four areas: manufacturing, supply chain, engineering 
and EHS. 
•  The Commercial EHS Executive Council sets EHS 
priorities, goals and objectives for our commercial 
operations, which include actions to reduce GHG 
emissions, as well as key health and safety objectives, 
such as improving driver safety. 
•  The EHS Leadership Council establishes the EHS 
strategy and EHS programs; builds awareness, education  
and expertise; and promotes our EHS Awards.Progress on 2020 Targets
As part of our EHS strategy, we have set 2020 enterprise- 
level targets for reducing our GHG emissions, water use 
and waste against 2010 levels, when adjusted for sales. 
These targets are: 
•  A 40 percent reduction in the carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO2e) emissions associated with our business operations 
and the electricity we purchase (known as Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions) 
• A 30 percent reduction in our total water intake 
• A 50 percent reduction in the total waste we generate 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS PROGRESS
REDUCTION   
IN TOTAL   
WATER INTAKEREDUCTION   
IN CO2e   
EMISSIONS 43%†
28%
42% 50%30%40%
REDUCTION   
IN TOTAL   
WASTE2010 BASELINE 2019* 2020 TARGET*
 *Normalized to sales.
  †Calculated using the market-based method.
Goal achieved.STRATEGYABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT73          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTEach Abbott business also sets annual environmental 
targets with our executive leadership, which we track as 
part of Abbott’s quarterly EHS Scorecard. This helps us  
to maintain progress toward our 2020 targets and identify 
areas for improvement on a continuous basis. We verify 
our EHS performance data using an independent assurance 
provider, Apex Companies (formerly Bureau Veritas  
North America). The Environmental Policy page on our 
website includes a PDF of the Apex Assurance Statement.
Policies and Management Systems
We aim to drive continuous improvement in our  
environmental performance through our EHS policy  
and our management and technical standards, which  
are designed to ensure all Abbott operations comply  
with applicable regulations at local, state, national and 
international levels. We train all EHS employees in both 
our standards and any changing regulatory requirements. 
Abbott’s employee training program includes a module 
focusing on our EHS standards, and we encourage our 
EHS employees to further their knowledge by attending 
external training courses and conferences.We make all of our EHS policies and standards available 
on our website, including our: 
•  Environment, energy and water policies , which detail 
our environmental commitments, including climate 
considerations 
•  Corporate environmental guidelines , which direct our 
approach to meeting these commitments 
•  Supplier guidelines , which detail our company’s value 
system and principles-based approach to doing business 
as this relates to human rights, labor, environment and 
ethical behavior 
•  Internal EHS audit program, which ensures compliance 
with our EHS policy and drives continuous improvement
Subject-matter experts regularly update Abbott’s EHS 
policies and standards to reflect current and future 
anticipated best practices and regulatory trends, as well  
as International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
and other regulatory requirements. Together, our policies 
and management practices deliver a consistent approach 
to managing, measuring and reducing environmental 
impacts across our operations. We operate a comprehensive EHS audit program to 
ensure compliance with Abbott policies and applicable 
regulatory requirements and to identify potential risks  
to our employees and the business. We evaluate EHS risk 
factors for each site annually and use these evaluations to 
determine how frequently audits take place. Once an audit 
is completed, we develop corrective action plans where 
required and monitor how these plans are implemented. 
We use established external standards to guide our actions 
and pursue external certification where relevant. 
•  We consider Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) certification when building  
new facilities.
•  Individual Abbott sites or businesses may also pursue 
external certifications, such as ISO, when they identify 
business value in doing so.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT74          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTBy the end of 2019, 49 percent of Abbott manufacturing 
sites held environment-related ISO certifications. This 
included 37 manufacturing sites with ISO 14001 and  
17 with ISO 50001 certifications. In addition, eight 
nonmanufacturing sites achieved ISO 14001, and one 
achieved ISO 50001 certification. Similarly, 19 facilities 
achieved LEED certification, including one platinum,  
five gold and six silver certifications. Combined, these 
facilities represent more than 1.5 million square feet of 
LEED-certified buildings. Our efforts to improve environmental efficiency depend 
upon engaging employees at all levels of our organization, 
including:
•  Evaluating our EHS leaders against EHS performance 
goals as part of their annual performance appraisals
•  Raising awareness of priority EHS issues through  
a dedicated month highlighting EHS topics and a 
monthly webinar series with subject-matter experts and 
representatives from sites with high EHS performance
•  Recognizing exceptional performance by sites, teams 
and individual employees through our annual EHS 
Awards Program
The EHS Awards Program includes awards for large  
and small manufacturing sites with the best overall  
EHS performance for the year, manufacturing sites that 
achieve high performance by embodying best practices 
in a specific EHS management area and outstanding 
individual initiatives.Mergers and Acquisitions
We conduct due diligence to identify and manage EHS 
liabilities associated with company mergers, acquisitions 
and divestitures. The due diligence procedure that we 
follow depends on the nature of the transaction:
1.  We conduct environmental due diligence on all real 
property transactions. 
2.  For business acquisitions, we expand our due diligence 
to assess the company’s EHS resources and programs, 
identify gaps, and estimate the costs and resources 
required to align them with Abbott standards. 
When Abbott acquires new businesses, we follow a 
program to align those businesses with our EHS management 
practices and standards. The program includes providing 
all relevant training and resources to successfully implement 
our EHS policy and standards. We conduct multiple 
assessments at different stages of the program to ensure 
the effectiveness of our training and the progress made  
on implementation.ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATIONS 2018 2019
Total ISO 14001 Certifications 38 45
Total ISO 14001 Manufacturing Sites Certified 30 37
Total ISO 14001 Nonmanufacturing Sites Certified 8 8
Total ISO 50001 Certifications 19 18
Total ISO 50001 Manufacturing Sites Certified 18 17
Total ISO 50001 Nonmanufacturing Sites Certified 1 1
Total LEED Certifications 19 19
Platinum 1 1
Gold 5 5
Silver 6 6
Certified 7 7Our commitment to safeguarding a healthy  
environment shapes the way we source, design, 
manufacture and distribute our products.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT75          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENT ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAbbott is committed to identifying and mitigating 
climate-related risks that have the potential to impact  
our operations, supply chain and distribution network.  
We also have a process to identify and act on opportunities 
to address healthcare needs that are emerging as a result 
of climate change and to increase operating efficiencies  
by reducing our climate-related impacts through the 
management of our emissions, water and waste streams. 
Through these processes, we have determined that 
climate-related risks and opportunities exist at site and 
regional levels throughout our value chain; however, 
Abbott is not exposed to any substantive climate-related 
risks or opportunities at a global level.
Risks
The risks that we analyze include physical and transitional 
risks that result from emerging regulation and new 
expectations of our businesses and risk exposure through 
our suppliers and customers. We assess and manage  
these risks through our integrated companywide risk 
management process, which identifies opportunities to 
build resilience in both our operations and our business 
model. Abbott regularly updates risk management policies, 
standards and programs to align with global best practices 
and regulatory requirements, and we aim to anticipate 
emerging risks and upcoming regulatory changes.MANAGING CLIMATE-RELATED  
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
In 2017, the Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD), established 
by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), 
published its recommended framework for 
companies disclosing climate-related risks 
and mitigation strategies. The objective of 
the framework is to enable smarter allocation 
of investment capital, based on how companies 
address climate issues, and to facilitate the 
transition to a low-carbon economy.
The TCFD framework consists of four core 
elements: governance, strategy, risk  
management, and metrics and targets.  
It includes recommended disclosures  
that companies should make in each of 
these areas. 
As recommended by the TCFD, we explain 
where Abbott has published information on 
our climate-related risks and approaches to 
mitigating them, as outlined at right.GOVERNANCE
We’ve included information about our 
management’s role in assessing climate risks 
and opportunities and our Board’s role in 
overseeing climate change risk management 
in the Governance section on page 71.     
STRATEGY
We describe the climate risks and opportunities 
that we have identified, as well as the 
impacts of these on our business, in our 
latest CDP Climate Change response.
RISK MANAGEMENT
We have published our processes for identifying 
and managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities on pages 75–77.
METRICS AND TARGETS
The end of this report (in the Reporting  
on Sustainability section beginning on  
page 109 ) includes a list of climate-related 
metrics that we track and report.   TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURESABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT76          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTOur enterprise risk management (ERM) process identifies 
and evaluates the most critical risks for our business and 
provides guidance to our Board of Directors and management 
team. For more information on our ERM approach, go to 
the Sustainability Overview section on page 10 . 
Our EHS governance team monitors emerging climate- 
related trends and regulations to analyze the potential 
impacts on our business, understand our risk exposures 
and develop appropriate management strategies. Our 
EHS, Economics and Business Continuity organizations 
use scenario sensitivity risk modeling to understand the 
financial implications of climate-related risks. Recently, 
we have analyzed potential risks resulting from the  
21st Conference of Parties (COP21) agreements on climate 
change, carbon taxes, water scarcity and the impact of 
climate change on agricultural supply chains. 
Abbott’s Business Continuity and Crisis Management 
organizations implement measures to ensure business 
continuity and minimize the financial impacts of physical 
climate-related risks. These physical risks fall into two 
categories: acute and chronic. The acute physical risks associated with climate change 
include unforeseen extreme weather events. We cannot 
develop a strategy to prevent such events. However, we 
have developed a strategy for mitigating and responding  
to them. Our Business Continuity and Crisis Management  
organization works with our EHS, Engineering and 
Supply Chain groups to identify and implement measures 
that will strengthen business resilience in the face of 
extreme weather events.
Additionally, our Engineering and EHS policies and 
management standards consider chronic physical risks, 
such as water scarcity, and require sites to conduct  
regular risk and opportunity evaluations and implement 
mitigation strategies. 
Our analyses of climate-related risks conclude that Abbott 
is not exposed to physical risks that could generate a 
substantive change in business operations, revenue or 
expenditure at a corporate level. Limited physical risks 
exist at site and regional operation levels and throughout 
our supply chain. However, our diverse geographical 
distribution significantly mitigates the potential for 
substantive impact on our business.Our most significant climate-related risks are transition 
risks that relate to emerging expectations and regulations 
around businesses managing their GHG emissions.  
These risks include carbon limits and taxes, enhanced 
emissions-reporting obligations, costs to transition to 
lower-emissions technologies, and increased costs of 
goods and services.
We have identified the need to manage and mitigate 
environmental impacts as a potential enterprise risk for 
Abbott. In response to this, Abbott’s business strategy 
includes reducing the energy and carbon footprint of  
our operations and engaging our value chain in strategic 
sourcing categories.
For more information on our management of and  
progress in addressing specific climate-related risks,  
see Reducing Energy and Emissions (page 78), Protecting 
Water Resources (page 83) and Extended Producer 
Responsibility (page 89).ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT77          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTOpportunities
As part of our product research and development  
and climate risk management processes, we consider 
opportunities that might result from climate change. 
These fall into two main categories: increased operating 
efficiencies as a result of achieving carbon reduction 
targets and the opportunity to advance our mission to  
help people live their best lives by meeting changing 
healthcare and nutrition needs.Compared to many industries, Abbott’s carbon footprint  
is relatively small, and our progress in meeting our 
2020 carbon reduction targets means that we have fewer 
opportunities to realize significant operating efficiencies and 
cost savings in the future. Although further opportunities 
in this area exist, they are unlikely to have a substantive 
financial impact on our business.Changes to the climate have the potential to influence  
the disease burden and result in increased need for the 
diagnostics, medical devices, and nutrition products and 
pharmaceuticals that Abbott makes. However, we do not 
anticipate that this will have a substantive financial or 
strategic impact on our business. We will continue to 
respond to increased humanitarian needs as a result of 
severe weather events and changes in the spread of disease 
in line with our caring values and primarily through our 
philanthropic organization and product donations.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT78          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENT ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTREDUCING ENERGY  
AND EMISSIONS
Our contribution to a healthy world includes reducing 
energy consumption and carbon emissions, both in our 
direct operations and throughout our value chain. 
Abbott’s manufacturing, warehousing, vehicle fleets and 
office activities result in Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2  
(indirect) emissions. We also contribute to carbon 
emissions through business travel, the way that we 
dispose of waste, and our upstream and downstream value 
chains, including the sourcing, processing and transport  
of raw materials, the distribution of our products, and the 
way that our products and their packaging are used and 
disposed of. These are known as Scope 3 emissions. 
In 2012, we set an ambitious target to reduce our Scope 1 
and 2 emissions by 40 percent by 2020, compared to 2010 
and adjusted for sales. In 2019, we exceeded this target by 
achieving a 43 percent reduction compared to 2010 levels.1
Responsibility for reducing energy consumption and 
emissions sits with Abbott’s Energy Council, which 
comprises business and corporate leaders. The Energy 
Council designs and launches strategic energy reduction 
programs, aligns resources and initiatives, and monitors 
our progress toward our targets. Our Energy Community 
of Practice provides advice and support to the council 
while acting as a network for sharing best practices  
across Abbott.We have outlined our program for tracking and reducing 
energy and air emissions in our Climate Responsible 
Energy Policy and Internal Energy Guidelines. Together, 
our Energy Council and governing documents provide 
guidance on the following:
•  Increasing energy efficiency in our manufacturing 
operations
• Investing in low-carbon energy
•  Improving the efficiency of our transportation fleet
•  Encouraging a lower carbon footprint in our  
supply chain
•  Publicly reporting our performance
Our carbon emissions management extends beyond our 
direct operations and includes measuring and managing 
the Scope 3 GHG emissions2 in our value chain. See  
page 82 for more details.
We work within international commitments and frameworks, 
like the CDP and the GHG Protocol, to measure, track, 
reduce and report emissions of GHG, volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs) and sulphur oxide (SOx). Detailed 
information on our performance is on pages 117–126 in the 
Reporting on Sustainability section. In 2019, we received 
an A- rating for our CDP Climate Change Disclosure 
response , an improvement from our B rating in 2018.  FUEL-EFFICIENT INITIATIVES  
We have launched a number of initiatives 
to manage fuel consumption in our  
commercial fleet, which contributed to  
24 percent of our Scope 1 emissions in 
2019. These initiatives include requirements 
for more fuel-efficient vehicles, car-sharing 
programs and campaigns encouraging our 
employees to use public transportation in  
urban environments.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT79          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTScope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions
We have established a comprehensive management 
program for reducing Abbott’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions, which includes purchasing more renewable 
electricity, increasing energy efficiency across our 
operations, and integrating sustainable engineering 
technologies and concepts into our projects. Each of 
Abbott’s businesses and divisions sets annual energy 
efficiency targets. In addition, all manufacturing sites  
that produce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions of more  
than 25,000 metric tons of CO2e annually are required  
to set annual carbon reduction goals.
Our three most significant areas of climate change impact 
are our electricity use, fuel consumption by our manufacturing 
operations and our global sales fleet. Together, these 
represent 94 percent of the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
associated with our direct operations.1 
In 2019, we exceeded our 2020 40 percent emissions 
reduction target by reducing our emissions by 43 percent 
since 2010, normalized to sales. This equates to a 23 percent 
reduction on an absolute basis compared to 2010 levels and 
by 0.5 percent since 2018. For more details, see pages 
117–119 and 121–123 in the Reporting on Sustainability section.
We verify all Scope 1 and 2 emissions through a third-party 
assurance process. OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
Scope 3 emissions related to waste 
from operations and downstream 
transportation and distribution were 
found to be marginal, contributing  
to less than 1 percent of Abbott’s 
greenhouse gas emissions.1% 
END-OF-LIFE TREATMENT
3% 
USE OF SOLD PRODUCTS
2%  
EMPLOYEE COMMUTING
2%
BUSINESS TRAVEL
10%
UPSTREAM TRANSPORTATION 
AND DISTRIBUTION  
2%  
FUEL AND ENERGY  
(not Scope 1 or 2)
19% 
CAPITAL GOODS
55% 
PURCHASED GOODS AND SERVICES3%  
SCOPE 13%  
SCOPE 2
94%  
SCOPE 3We are committed to reducing our 
carbon emissions, and we encourage  
our suppliers, distributors and other 
stakeholders to reduce their  
own impacts. ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT80          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTUsing Cleaner Sources of Energy
In 2019, our greatest carbon reductions were achieved 
through the purchase of electricity from utility providers 
that included above-average renewable generation in their 
energy mix, particularly in Europe. This resulted in a 
savings of 79,000 metric tons of CO2e. 
We aim to further reduce Abbott’s GHG emissions by 
investing in low-carbon fuels, cogeneration and renewable 
energy generation at our facilities. During 2019, seven  
of our facilities used cogeneration units, which are 
power-generating units that produce electricity and 
capture heat for use in manufacturing processes. We 
produced 64 million kilowatt-hours of electricity through 
cogeneration in 2019, an increase of 82 percent since 2010. 
We also generated 1.2 million kilowatt-hours of renewable 
energy at our sites, mostly through solar panels.
For a detailed review of our energy footprint and  
performance, see the Scope 1 and Scope 2 energy  
consumption data on pages 119–120 and 124–126 in the 
Reporting on Sustainability section.Using Energy More Efficiently
Each Abbott business and site has developed energy 
efficiency programs to help meet our Scope 1 and Scope 2 
reduction targets. These programs have succeeded in 
decreasing our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by  
23 percent from 2010 to 2019, despite continual increases 
in production during this time. 
In the last three years, we have conducted 65 energy 
assessments, covering 70 percent of Abbott manufacturing 
operations, to identify opportunities to improve our 
energy performance. 
In 2019, we implemented 49 energy efficiency and  
air emissions projects at 26 manufacturing sites in  
nine countries. These projects resulted in more than  
$750,000 annual cost savings and more than 34 million 
kilowatt-hours in annual energy savings and prevented 
more than 7 ,900 metric tons of carbon emissions. In 
several cases, we achieved significant savings by upgrading 
and optimizing building control technologies, HVAC 
systems, and manufacturing processes and equipment. 
 2019 COMPLETED ENERGY AND  
EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECTS
~$750,000  
ANNUAL SAVINGS49 ENERGY  
EFFICIENCY AND  
AIR EMISSIONS  
REDUCTION  
PROJECTS9 COUNTRIES  
AND 26 SITES
7,900 METRIC TONS  
CO2e EMISSIONS REDUCED ANNUALLY34 MILLION kWh  
ANNUAL ENERGY 
SAVINGS $ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT81          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTENERGY REDUCTION HIGHLIGHTS
INITIATIVE DIVISION AND LOCATION ANNUAL ENERGY SAVINGS 
(KILOWATT-HOURS; METRIC TONS)ANNUALIZED  
COST SAVINGS
Installed LED lighting for greater energy efficiency 
(9 projects)Cardiovascular/Neuromodulation
Scottsdale, Arizona; Sylmar, California; Plymouth and St. Paul, Minnesota (United States)
Diagnostics
Longford (Ireland) 
Vascular
Clonmel (Ireland)2.4 million kWh 
900 MT CO2e emissions$80,000
Optimized HVAC and energy systems using 
upgraded building technologies and system settings 
(20 projects) Branded Generic Medicines 
Olst (Netherlands)
Cardiovascular/Neuromodulation
Coyol (Costa Rica); Penang (Malaysia); Woodridge, Illinois; Minnetonka, Plymouth and Roseville, 
Minnesota (United States) 
Corporate 
Abbott Park, Illinois (United States)
Diagnostics
Ottawa (Canada); Abbott Park, Illinois; Princeton, New Jersey (United States)
Vascular 
Temecula, California (United States)7.6 million kWh 
2,400 MT CO2e emissions$300,000
Upgraded and/or replaced manufacturing, cooling 
tower and HVAC equipment, resulting in improved 
energy efficiency and eliminating use of refrigerants 
(10 projects)Branded Generic Medicines 
Voronezh (Russia)
Cardiovascular/Neuromodulation
Atlanta, Georgia; Woodridge, Illinois; Minnetonka and Rogers, Minnesota (United States)
Diagnostics
Wiesbaden (Germany); Abbott Park, Illinois (United States) 
Vascular
Heerlen (Netherlands); Santa Clara and Temecula, California (United States)91,000 kWh 
500 MT CO2e emissions$150,000In 2019, some of our greatest energy reduction and efficiency projects included the following:ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT82          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTScope 3 Emissions
Our Scope 3 emissions are an estimated 15 times larger 
than our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined. These include 
all indirect emissions associated with our upstream and 
downstream value chain. We calculate these Scope 3 
emissions annually using the GHG Protocol, and we verify 
the emissions related to our business travel and operational 
waste processing through a third-party assurance process.Of the 15 categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions associated 
with the supply, distribution and consumption of products, 
10 apply to Abbott’s business. (See Our Carbon Footprint 
graphic on page 79 for a breakdown of our Scope 3 emissions.) 
Since 2010, we have reduced the Scope 3 emissions 
associated with the processing of our operational  
waste by almost 40 percent. This is a result of reducing 
overall waste by 22 percent and waste sent to landfill by  
48 percent. We partner with our suppliers to undertake 
additional activities to reduce our Scope 3 emissions. We 
describe how we engage suppliers with these initiatives 
on pages 102–108 .Since 2010, we have reduced the Scope 3  
emissions associated with the processing of  
our operational waste by almost 40 percent.  ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT83          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTPROTECTING WATER RESOURCES
Access to water is essential to Abbott’s business continuity 
and manufacturing operations and also plays a critical  
role in the use of many of our products. We are committed 
to managing our water use in an efficient, responsible 
manner, as well as to improving access to clean water for 
our customers and for the communities where we operate.
Our approach is based on four core principles, which are 
communicated across our business through Abbott’s 
Water Policy on Access to Clean Water and our internal 
Water Use Guidelines:
•  Reducing the amount of water our business consumes  
by improving water efficiency across our operations 
•  Preventing adverse impacts to human health and the 
environment resulting from our water use and discharge 
•  Engaging stakeholders across our value chain to 
encourage the latest water management principles 
•  Educating employees, suppliers and customers about  
the importance of protecting water resources In 2018, Abbott partnered with the World Resources 
Institute (WRI) and the Alliance for Water Stewardship 
(AWS) to explore the business case for a context-based 
approach to water management. The context-based 
approach involves monitoring water impacts across a 
water catchment basin to better understand a business’s  
water footprint, mitigate water-related risks and ensure 
business continuity. 
As a result of these partnerships, we have aligned Abbott’s 
water management technical standard, which governs  
our operational water management, with the principles  
of a context-based approach. We are now monitoring our 
impact on water resources in the communities where we 
operate, assessing water-related risks at the basin level 
and across our value chain, and working with community 
stakeholders and within our own operations to reduce 
water-related risks. 
In addition to partnering with various water stakeholders, 
Abbott has participated in the CDP Water Disclosure 
Program since 2010. This has allowed us to share critical 
water performance data while benchmarking our 
performance and programs against those of other 
companies in the healthcare sector, as well as against 
those of global leaders in water management.~$94,000 
ANNUAL SAVINGS22 WATER  
EFFICIENCY  
PROJECTS6 COUNTRIES  
AND 13 SITES2019 COMPLETED WATER  
REDUCTION PROJECTS
4 WATER-  
STRESSED SITES 
IMPACTED
33.9 MILLION  
GALLONS OF WATER SAVED$ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT84          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTWater Risk Management
Abbott is committed to identifying and mitigating 
climate- and water-related risks that have the potential  
to impact our operations, supply chain and distribution 
network. We have a process for identifying and acting  
on opportunities to address healthcare needs that are 
emerging as a result of climate change and water-related 
activities. These processes, which include Abbott’s 
enterprise risk management and business continuity 
organizations, are outlined in the Managing Climate-  
Related Risks section on page 75 .
In addition to these processes, we manage our water-related 
risks through Abbott’s water management technical 
standard, which was updated in 2018 to adopt a context- 
based approach to water risk management. We identify 
manufacturing and R&D sites that are significant water 
users that use more than 50 million gallons of water 
annually, as well as sites that operate in water-stressed 
areas, and then develop and implement site-specific water 
management plans. These plans include site-level targets 
that mitigate water-related risk to our operations and in 
the communities where we operate. Our water management technical standard identifies  
three categories of manufacturing and research and 
development (R&D) sites that require water management 
plans. These categories are the following:
1. Significant water users 
2.  Significant water users that operate in water-stressed 
areas 
3.  Sites that operate in water-stressed areas but are not 
significant water users 
In addition to developing a water management plan,  
sites in the first two categories must engage with key 
stakeholders in their local catchment basin to identify  
and address water-related risks and challenges.
Abbott assesses the water resilience of all our sites 
annually by evaluating local water stress and intensity  
of water use. We leverage the WRI Aqueduct™ , a global 
water risk mapping tool, to identify Abbott sites that  
are exposed to water stress. We also consider the  
potential for water-related risks for any acquisitions  
and site-expansion projects. In 2019, 39 of our 113 manufacturing and R&D sites 
operated in water-stressed regions. However, in 2019 more 
than 60 percent of the sites in water-stressed areas each 
used less than 15 million gallons of water. This minimized 
Abbott manufacturing and R&D site exposure to water 
risk, as well as minimized our impacts in water-stressed 
areas where we operate. 
Our annual water-stress mapping and analysis also help  
to assess levels of water-related risk for Abbott as a whole. 
Our analysis finds that, while water is a key resource  
for manufacturing, Abbott is not exposed to significant 
chronic physical water-related risks at a corporate level. 
Interruption of water supply to any single manufacturing 
site or locale would have a local impact. However, 
operating contingencies and geographic diversification 
limit the potential impact of these risks on Abbott’s  
overall business.Abbott assesses the water resilience of all our 
manufacturing and R&D sites annually by  
evaluating local water stress and intensity of 
water use.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT85          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT’S CONTEXT-BASED WATER RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK
STEP 1: 
DETERMINE SITE WATER RISK PROFILE BY EVALUATING  
WATER STRESS AND INTENSITY OF USESTEP 2: 
IMPLEMENT MITIGATION  
ACTIONS
=
=
=
=
=
=LEVEL 1
• Evaluate local water risks 
•  Identify opportunities to mitigate 
water-related risk
• Set and track water targets
• Engage local stakeholders
LEVEL 2
• Evaluate local water risks 
•  Identify opportunities to mitigate 
water-related risk
• Set and track water targets
LEVEL 3
• No action requiredLEVEL OF WATER  
MITIGATION DESCRIPTION LEVEL OF WATER  
MITIGATION DESCRIPTION 
BASED ON SITE WATER RISK PROFILE
LEVEL 1  
 
LEVEL 2  
 
LEVEL 3
LEVEL 1  
 
LEVEL 3  
 BASELINE WATER STRESS 
USING THE WORLD RESOURCES  
INSTITUTE AQUEDUCT ™ TOOLANNUAL WATER-  
USE INTENSITY+
HIGH WATER USE  
 
MEDIUM–LOW WATER USE  
 
MINIMAL WATER USE  
WATER-STRESSED
 
NOT WATER-STRESSEDHIGH WATER USE  
 
MEDIUM, LOW, MINIMAL  
WATER USE+
+
+
+
+ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT86          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTOur Water Footprint
Each year, we map our water footprint to understand 
where the water that we consume comes from, how it  
is discharged and treated, and the impacts that we have  
on our local water basins. In 2017 , we began collecting 
water source, discharge and on-site recycling data for  
our manufacturing sites to better understand the details  
of our water footprint. 
We define water recycling as the act of processing used 
water and wastewater through an additional operating 
cycle or cycles before final treatment and discharge into  
the environment. In general, Abbott facilities carry out 
three types of water recycling and reuse: 
•  Wastewater recycled for use in the same process cycle 
•  Wastewater recycled and reused in a different process 
but within the same facility 
•  Wastewater reused at another of the organization’s 
facilities 
When reporting water recycling data, we calculate the 
volume of recycled or reused water as the volume of water 
intake that has been avoided through recycling or reuse.OUR WATER FOOTPRINT
OUT INMUNICIPAL 
WATER78.5%
WATER FROM  
RAW MATERIALS0.1%WATER CONSUMED  
IN PROCESS17%
WATER TREATED  
BY MUNICIPALITY69%
WATER RETURNED TO  
THE ENVIRONMENT14%
FRESH SURFACE  
AND GROUNDWATER21.2% RAINWATER 
COLLECTED  
ON SITE0.2%
WATER RECYCLING ON SITE
8.5%ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT87          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTWater Reduction Performance
We have set a target to reduce Abbott’s total water intake 
by 30 percent by 2020, compared to 2010 and adjusted  
for sales. At the end of 2019, we had reduced our water 
intake compared to 2010 by 3.6 percent on an absolute 
basis and 28 percent when adjusted for sales. We have 
achieved this progress toward our target by implementing 
water-efficient interventions in our operations and 
processes, using more water-efficient technologies, 
changing our manufacturing and maintenance processes, 
and recycling water. Abbott’s total water intake in 2019 was 3.5 billion gallons, 
a 0.7 percent decrease compared to 2018. During 2019,  
we recycled and reused 22 percent of water at sites 
employing water recycling practices, which is a 5 percent 
increase over 2018. In addition, the number of facilities 
with water recycling activities also increased from 14 to  
25 manufacturing sites.In 2019, we implemented 22 water efficiency and reduction 
projects at 13 manufacturing sites across six countries,  
four of which operate in water-stressed areas. These 
projects included technology and process modifications, 
landscaping that reduces watering requirements and uses 
smart irrigation technologies, and recycling water in our 
building and manufacturing operations. Together, the 
projects implemented in 2019 resulted in a savings of 
$94,000 and 33.9 million gallons of water per year. At the end of 2019, we had reduced our water intake 
compared to 2010 by 3.6 percent on an absolute 
basis and 28 percent when adjusted for sales. ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT88          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTWATER REDUCTION HIGHLIGHTS
In 2019, some of our greatest water efficiency projects included the following:
INITIATIVE DIVISION AND LOCATION ANNUAL WATER SAVINGS 
(GALLONS OF WATER)ANNUAL  
COST SAVINGS
Optimized boilers to improve water efficiency  
(1 project)Nutrition
Tipp City, Ohio (United States)11 million $20,000 
Established new settings for reverse osmosis and 
HVAC humidity systems, reducing water use by 27% 
(1 project)  Branded Generic Medicines 
Olst (Netherlands)2.6 million $9,000 
Installed smart monitoring technologies for water 
metering and irrigation (3 projects)Diagnostics 
North Chicago, Illinois (United States)
Cardiovascular/Neuromodulation
Minnetonka and Plymouth, Minnesota (United States)1.4 million  $10,000
Reused and recycled water in manufacturing 
operations (3 projects) Diagnostics 
Abbott Park, Illinois (United States)
Cardiovascular/Neuromodulation
Belo Horizonte (Brazil); Coyol (Costa Rica)1.5 million $45,000
In 2019, we received a B rating for our CDP Water 
Disclosure response , an improvement from our rating of 
B- in 2018. This places Abbott in the Management band, 
along with 43 percent of businesses in our activity group. 
For detailed information on our water management 
performance, see pages 127–129 in the Reporting on 
Sustainability section.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT89          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTEXTENDED PRODUCER  
RESPONSIBILITY
Abbott recognizes our extended responsibility for  
the impact of our products on human health and the 
environment, which includes how we procure materials 
and services to produce them and their impact after  
we distribute them. 
We are committed to minimizing the impact of our 
products throughout their entire life cycle. Besides 
reducing our overall environmental impact, this enables 
us to improve operating efficiency and reduce product  
and operational costs. Our commitment considers all 
components of our business value chain, including: 
•  Procuring all of our operational inputs, such as raw 
materials, processed goods and services, ethically  
and sustainably
•  Designing, producing and distributing our products with 
consideration for their impact on the environment and 
human health throughout their life cycle 
•  Ensuring that our products can be consumed and disposed 
of in an environmentally responsible mannerWaste management plays a central role in our vision  
of extended producer responsibility, and our waste 
management approach addresses two critical aspects  
of this:
•  Operational waste management, which governs our 
treatment of waste that Abbott produces
•  Reducing the life-cycle impacts of our products and  
their packagingWe are committed to minimizing the impact of 
our products throughout their entire life cycle.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT90          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTAbbott has adopted a circular economy approach as the 
objective of our operational waste management strategy. 
This moves us toward more holistic solutions for  
managing our waste. The principles of the circular 
economy provide an alternative to the traditional linear 
economy, in which products are made, used and then 
disposed of. In a circular economy, all resources remain  
in use for as long as possible without becoming waste, 
extracting maximum value from them. This not only 
reduces waste generation but also reduces the requirement 
for new raw material inputs.
Our waste management strategy commits us to finding 
ethical, economical and efficient ways to reduce the 
volume and hazardous characteristics of our waste and 
ensures proper waste disposal practices. However, it  
also goes further, with a commitment to maximizing the 
recovery of resources and improving operating efficiency 
while reducing our environmental risks and impacts. We 
measure our performance in each of these areas and have 
standards, guidelines and programs to reduce the risk 
associated with waste generation, waste handling and 
waste disposal.The majority of the waste that Abbott generates is 
nonhazardous. We prioritize reducing the proportion  
of our waste footprint that is classified as hazardous.  
Since 2010, hazardous waste has consistently made up 
about 12 percent of our waste footprint.HOLISTIC APPROACH TO REDUCE  
OPERATIONAL WASTE  
2019 COMPLETED WASTE  
REDUCTION PROJECTS
$28,000  
ANNUAL SAVINGS22 WASTE
EFFICIENCY
PROJECTS
5 COUNTRIES  
AND 14 SITES 750 U.S.  
TONS
WASTE  
ELIMINATED$ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT91          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTIntegrating a Circular Economy Approach 
As part of our waste management strategy, we have set a 
target for 2020 to reduce the total waste we generate by 
50 percent, compared to 2010 and adjusted for sales.
The technical standard governing our operational waste 
management practices strives to minimize waste generation, 
reduce toxicity and ensure the maximum recovery of the 
economic value of waste. It applies to both hazardous  
and nonhazardous waste, as well as our beneficial use 
activities. Beneficial use is when a material that otherwise 
would have been waste is reused in substantially the same 
form to replace a commercial product or commodity. 
Our standard specifies a range of waste management 
strategies, including: 
•  Preventive maintenance and process design to eliminate 
waste generation 
•  Process waste reduction through diagnosing and fixing 
problems that would otherwise result in waste generation 
•  Reducing waste through product design, material input 
and purchasing decisions 
•  Partnering across other value chains to promote 
beneficial use
• Ensuring proper waste material segregation 
•  Composting, recycling and incinerating with  
energy recovery CIRCULAR ECONOMY APPROACH TO OUR MANUFACTURING WASTE MANAGEMENT
90 percent of waste and beneficial use materials  
produced in our manufacturing and operations  
are diverted from landfill and incinerated without 
energy recovery.
RECYCLE
REFURBISH AND  
REMANUFACTURE
REUSE AND REDISTRIBUTE
MAINTENANCE
NATURAL  
RESOURCESMANUFACTURE TRASH90%
10%ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT92          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTIn 2012, we launched a Zero Waste to Landfill program  
to provide our sites with a clear target for diverting waste 
from landfill. In total, 29 Abbott manufacturing facilities 
and seven nonmanufacturing facilities, located across  
18 countries, have now achieved Zero Waste to Landfill 
status. Besides reducing waste, the program also cuts GHG 
emissions, saves costs and helps to engage employees in 
our environmental initiatives. 
Our diabetes care manufacturing site in Donegal, Ireland, 
completed a site expansion program involving significant 
construction and demolition while maintaining the Zero 
Waste to Landfill status that it has held since 2013. Doing 
so involved finding ways to reuse more than 375 U.S. tons, 
or 71 percent, of the construction waste generated on site. 
The Donegal team segregated the remaining waste to 
maximize recovery by recycling, with 84 percent going  
to compost, recycling or beneficial use and the remaining 
16 percent being incinerated with energy recovery.Our technical standard for evaluating and approving  
waste vendors mandates ethical and responsible  
approaches to waste management and is designed to 
minimize risks associated with any waste that we dispose 
of. For manufacturing sites that produce more than  
1,200 kilograms of hazardous waste annually, our Waste 
Vendor Assessment program requires on-site audits of  
our waste management firms at least every five years.  
This program has assessed 271 waste vendors within  
the last five years and 71 waste vendors in 2019. 
We also partner with our IT waste management vendors 
to ensure proper handling of our used electronics, 
including recycling and beneficial use where possible.  
See the Strengthening Our Supply Chain section on  
page 98 for more details about our waste management 
supply chain. ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT93          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTOur Operational Waste Footprint
Waste management is a priority for our business, and 
managing our waste footprint is part of that commitment. 
The chart on this page shows our operational waste 
footprint in detail, including how waste from our own 
operations gets diverted from landfill and how we seek  
to ensure energy recovery from any incineration of  
our waste.
67,711
U.S. TONS WASTE   
GENERATED123,579
U.S. TONS TO  
BENEFICIAL USE†4% 
OTHER1% 
CORRUGATE AND CARDBOARD
3% 
EGG BYPRODUCT
4% 
WOOD
8% 
SLUDGE24%  
LANDFILL
21% 
INCINERATE (WITH 
ENERGY RECOVERY)
2% 
OTHER48% 
RECYCLE
5% 
INCINERATE (WITHOUT 
ENERGY RECOVERY)29% 
CONSTRUCTION  
AND DEMOLITION2% 
PRODUCTION BYPRODUCT
1% 
CAFETERIA COMPOST
48% 
NUTRITIONAL BYPRODUCTWASTE MANAGEMENT*
*Includes manufacturing and commercial operations activities.
† Abbott defines beneficial use activities as sending the materials that otherwise would have been a waste off site to be used as an effective substitute 
for a commercial product or commodity. Beneficial use material is used as is or in substantially the same form as it was generated.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT94          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTProgress on Our 2020 Operational Waste Target
In 2019, we produced 67 ,711 tons of waste, an absolute 
increase of 2 percent compared to 2018. Since 2010,  
we have reduced our total waste footprint by 22 percent 
on an absolute basis and by 42 percent when adjusted  
for sales. 
During 2019, 12 percent of Abbott’s waste was classified as 
hazardous. Also in 2019, we produced 8,467 tons of 
hazardous waste, an increase of 14 percent compared  
to 2018. In partnership with our global electronic waste 
partners, we recycled 168 tons and resold 108 tons of 
electronic equipment. 
Through our efforts to maximize the economic value  
of material over time, in 2019 we diverted 90 percent of 
our operational waste and beneficial use materials from 
landfill and incineration without energy recovery. In 2019, 
our beneficial use activities exceeded the total waste that 
Abbott generated by 82.5 percent, with 123,579 tons of 
materials beneficially used across 110 manufacturing sites 
in 27 countries. This included composting 788 tons of 
cafeteria waste.Example beneficial use programs include our cardiovascular 
and neuromodulation site in Roseville, Minnesota, United 
States, and our cardiovascular facility in Costa Rica. Both 
partnered with organizations beyond our own value chain 
to implement corrugate reuse programs in 2019. These 
programs involve reusing metal containers and cardboard 
boxes for packaging and reusing cardboard boxes as 
cellulose insulation when they are no longer viable. 
The programs have eliminated 43 tons of waste and  
saved $2,700 in annual costs.
For additional details on our waste metrics, see  
pages 130–135 in the Reporting on Sustainability section.Since 2010, we have reduced our  
total waste footprint by 42 percent  
when adjusted for sales.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT95          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTSUSTAINABLE LIFE CYCLES WITH  
PRODUCTS AND PACKAGING
Many different Abbott functions work together to 
incorporate sustainability considerations into the  
design of our products and packaging to minimize  
their environmental impacts throughout the product  
life cycle. When possible, we prioritize the following 
considerations in the design and manufacture of our 
products and packaging: 
• Choosing sustainable and renewable materials 
•  Optimizing design to reduce the use of materials and 
increase volumetric efficiency in shipping and storage 
• Designing products to be more energy efficient
•  Designing products that can be circulated back into  
the economy through reuse and recycling
Packaging Reductions
Abbott’s cross-functional Packaging Council set an 
aggressive target to reduce the total weight of packaging 
for Abbott products by 10 percent by 2020, compared to 
our 2010 baseline. We surpassed our initial goal in 2017 
and continued this trajectory of progress by achieving 
total annualized reductions of 14 percent in 2019. Through 
this achievement, we have eliminated approximately  
41.8 million pounds of packaging and saved more than 
$100 million since 2010. In 2019, our diagnostics business redesigned the Alinity® 
2L pack and 10L Cubitainer® packaging to improve 
material and shipping efficiencies. This allowed us to  
ship 45 percent more Alinity 10L Cubitainer® packages  
per pallet and eliminated 101,000 pounds of corrugate 
cardboard used to ship the Alinity 2L pack in 2019. 
Likewise, our nutrition business removed all plastic straws 
from reclosable bottles manufactured in Europe and 
distributed globally. This eliminated 124,000 pounds of 
plastic, as well as waste generated during the manufacture 
of these products. Abbott is evaluating additional  
replacement of plastic straws with nonplastic alternatives 
in 2021.
Engaging and partnering with our suppliers has played  
a vital role in achieving our 2020 packaging target and 
mitigating the environmental impacts associated with 
Abbott’s extended value chain. We work closely with our 
suppliers on sustainable packaging solutions that seek 
either to eliminate packaging materials supplied to us or to 
ensure that packaging can be reused in our manufacturing 
processes. This has involved optimizing packaging design 
to reduce material quantities and improve shipping 
efficiencies, increasing the sustainability of fiber-based 
packaging, reducing the use of plastic, and implementing 
reusable packaging and packaging take-back initiatives.  2018 – 41.3 CUMULATIVE REDUCTION (MILLION LB.)  13.95%
2017 – 34.1 CUMULATIVE REDUCTION (MILLION LB.) 11.52%
2016 – 19.1 CUMULATIVE REDUCTION (MILLION LB.) 6.46%CUMULATIVE PACKAGING REDUCTION
2020 PACKAGING REDUCTION GOAL 10%
2019 – 41.8 CUMULATIVE REDUCTION (MILLION LB.)  14.13%
Goal achieved.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT96          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTResponsible Sourcing and Product Stewardship
Our Product Stewardship, Supply Chain, Research and 
Development (R&D), Engineering, and EHS groups work 
together to identify and mitigate the life-cycle impacts of 
our products and packaging along our value chain. This 
includes analyzing how we source energy, transportation 
and distribution, active pharmaceutical ingredients  
and chemicals of environmental concern, packaging, 
agriculture, dairy, electronics, and waste management.  
For more information about our supply chain efforts, see 
the Strengthening Our Supply Chain section on page 98 .
Product Stewardship
We have developed a product stewardship program to 
minimize the impact of our products and their packaging 
throughout the product life cycle. The program tracks  
and addresses regulations regarding restricted chemicals 
and ensures due diligence regarding conflict minerals.  
We carefully monitor and document regulatory changes, 
and we inform all areas of our company about the 
potential business impacts of these changes through 
regular product stewardship business meetings. Our 
enhanced Regulatory Intelligence process not only ensures 
potential impacts are identified but also tracks proactive 
actions taken at the business level to ensure compliance. We offer product stewardship training on conflict 
minerals, medical device regulations and substances of 
concern. We also offer training to relevant teams on the 
use of our global data composition repository. These teams 
include R&D, Supply Chain, Procurement and EHS.
Hazardous Chemicals
Responding to regulations on hazardous chemicals is  
a key element of our product stewardship program, with 
significant implications for how our products can be used, 
recycled and disposed of. We ensure that the way Abbott 
products are marketed and sold always complies with 
current regulations and not just the regulations in place  
at the time they were developed.
Conflict Minerals
We have defined a due-diligence process for understanding 
the use and sourcing of conflict minerals in our products 
and our supply chain. This includes the 3TG minerals: 
tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold.We file a Form SD3 and Conflict Minerals Report each year 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, in 
compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act. The form, report 
and our position statement on conflict minerals can be 
found on our website . We are a member of the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative, which provides companies with tools 
and resources to support compliant, responsible sourcing 
from conflict-affected and high-risk areas.
We use the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s standardized 
Conflict Minerals Reporting Template to survey our 
suppliers on conflict minerals. We also use an automated 
conflict minerals analysis tool to help assess risk in our 
supply chain.We have defined a due-diligence process for 
understanding the use and sourcing of conflict 
minerals in our products and our supply chain.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT97          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT  
AND COMPLIANCE
Abbott believes that our operations comply in all material 
respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning 
environmental protection. Regulations under federal and 
state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on 
emissions and discharges to the environment from various 
manufacturing operations. 
Abbott’s capital and operating expenditures for pollution 
control in 2019 were not material. We collect data on 
capital and operating expenditures related to environmental 
matters from all sites where this spending exceeds 
approximately $1 million. In 2019, these sites reported 
operating expenditures for pollution control to be 
approximately $30 million and capital expenditures  
for pollution control to be approximately $5 million. Abbott has been identified as one of many potentially 
responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations 
at several locations in the United States. Under the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation 
and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, Abbott 
is also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some 
of which are owned by Abbott, in cooperation with the 
Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies.
It is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs 
related to Superfund and remediation activities. However, 
Abbott believes that such costs, together with other 
expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations concerning environmental protection, 
should not have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s 
financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
1. Scope 1 and 2 emissions were calculated using the World Resources 
Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). To calculate our  
Scope 2 emissions, we use the GHGP market-based methodology. Where 
market-based information is not available, location-based results have  
been used as a proxy. For full details on our carbon emissions, including 
market- and location-based calculations, please see pages 117–118 and 
121–123 in the Reporting on Sustainability section.   
2. Scope 3 GHG emissions include 15 categories, 10 of which are applicable 
to Abbott and quantified using the methodologies outlined in the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)/WRI GHGP 
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. 
3. A Form SD is an Exchange Act Form used to satisfy special disclosure 
requirements implemented under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 98          STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINSTRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Sustainability in a Resilient Supply Chain   ...................  100
Governance  .....................................................................  100
Management Approach ...................................................  101
Performance Updates .....................................................  104SECTION 6
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
NEW STRAIN OF HIV
STAYING ONE 
STEP AHEAD  
OF HIV
The coronavirus pandemic has shown us  
the impact one virus can have. Something so 
small — microscopic, in fact — can affect 
communities in different ways, which is  
what the world is witnessing with COVID-19. 
When we think about it from that perspective, 
it’s easier to understand the importance of 
confirming a new strain of HIV . 
Thanks to Mary Rodgers, Ph.D., a Principal 
Scientist and head of our Global Viral Surveillance 
Program, she and her team sequenced a new 
strain of HIV in 2019. For more than 25 years, 
Abbott has been at the forefront of viral 
surveillance with our Global Viral Surveillance 
Program. Our unwavering commitment to 
monitor emerging and changing infectious 
diseases enables us to evaluate and solve disease 
challenges and keep pace as they evolve.78,000+
VIRUS STRAIN SAMPLES IN OUR  
GLOBAL SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM > MARY RODGERS, PH.D.
Mary Rodgers, Ph.D., head of our Global 
Viral Surveillance Program, led the team 
that confirmed a new strain of HIV  
in 2019.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT100          STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSUSTAINABILITY IN A RESILIENT  
SUPPLY CHAIN 
“We have an unwavering 
commitment to get our products 
into the hands of the people who 
need them, when they need them, 
all around the world — and our 
promise relies on the resilience of 
our supply chain.”    
RIC SCHNEIDER 
DIVISIONAL VICE PRESIDENT AND  
CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICERAbbott works with more than 75,000 suppliers in  
120 countries. The quality, resilience and sustainability  
of our supply chain are essential to Abbott’s continued 
success and to delivering the products that millions of 
people depend on. We have developed a global supply 
chain strategy focused on reinforcing continuity and 
flexibility while minimizing sustainability risk and our 
shared environmental footprint.
GOVERNANCE
Lead responsibility for Abbott’s supply chain sits with  
our Chief Procurement Officer, who is part of the Global 
Operations Council (GOC) and reports directly to the  
Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Procurement Officer  
is supported by dedicated procurement leaders, who 
specialize in a number of supplier categories.  
Abbott’s Supply Chain Council (SCC) oversees the 
development of our global supply chain strategy, meeting 
quarterly and reporting regularly to the GOC. The SCC 
consists of senior leaders with responsibility for the 
supply chain of each Abbott business. These leaders 
report to the Vice President of Operations for their  
respective businesses. The SCC makes recommendations 
on the vision and targets for achieving a sustainable and 
resilient supply chain. It also leads the development of a 
consistent, global approach to identifying and managing 
sustainability risks among our suppliers. 
Several additional Abbott committees and teams support 
the SCC in its work to improve resilience and flexibility:
•  The Supplier Diversity Governance Council is responsible 
for growing a strong, diverse supplier base and has 
appointed supplier diversity champions in every Abbott 
business and major category of spend. 
•  Abbott’s Executive Crisis Management Team (ECMT)  
is responsible for managing risks to business continuity 
in Abbott’s supply chain. The ECMT is supported  
by our Global Security organization and a network  
of 32 country-specific crisis action teams.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT101          STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINMANAGEMENT APPROACH
Our management approach emphasizes the importance  
of sustainability, resilience and flexibility in our supply 
chain’s role in supporting innovation at Abbott. We work 
closely with our suppliers on new solutions that support 
delivery of our life-changing technology, reduce our 
environmental impact, and multiply the social and 
economic value that we create. The SCC has established 
multiple initiatives to embed sustainability as a key 
element of our supplier partnerships. These initiatives 
enable us to manage risks systematically and to identify 
opportunities to enhance the sustainability of our  
business globally.
Supply Chain and Procurement Strategy
For Abbott, a sustainable supply chain means ensuring 
that everything we make and that others make for us  
is sourced and produced in an ethical manner while 
minimizing our shared sustainability impact. We are 
integrating sustainability considerations into our process 
for selecting and managing our suppliers, including  
into the five objectives of our supply chain and  
procurement strategy: 
•  Ensure our supply network aligns with, protects and 
elevates our brand 
•  Create relationships that deliver a shared value by 
conducting business with transparency and trust   •  Enhance margins and elevate financial performance 
by optimizing total cost, balancing risk with return  
and certainty
•  Expedite growth and drive innovation through  
proprietary and exclusive opportunities
•  Design a flexible, dynamic supply network, driving 
service with value and quality without supply risk 
We develop supplier contracts that embed standards 
aligned with our sustainability objectives and require 
suppliers to uphold the principles outlined in our  
Supplier Guidelines . 
Abbott’s procurement team spans geographies, organizations 
and structures. It follows the principles of focus,  
discipline, creativity and community in seeking to form 
innovative and strategic supplier partnerships. Embedding 
sustainability expertise within our supply chain and 
procurement functions is a key element of our approach. 
In 2019, we provided supply chain resilience training to  
98 percent of our Global Procurement organization. 
Abbott has set a target for 100 percent of our Global 
Procurement professionals to be trained in sustainability 
and supply chain resilience by 2020.  
  
  We work with supply chain organizations, like the 
Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity and Innovation 
and the Institute for Supply Management, to ensure that 
our supply chain strategy aligns with leading standards 
and best practices.SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE TRAINING
2020
TRAINING
TARGET: 
100%2019:
98%
2018:
95%2017:
84%ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT102          STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINGuidelines, Standards and Policies
Abbott’s Supplier Guidelines define the minimum 
standards that we expect of our suppliers and that we 
expect our suppliers to maintain in their own supply 
chains when conducting business with our company. 
These standards include:
•  Complying with all aspects of Abbott’s Code of Conduct, 
including acting fairly and with integrity, and meeting 
our standards on anti-corruption
•  Reporting on the source and chain of custody of all 
conflict minerals when supplying parts, components or 
materials to Abbott
• Commitments to animal welfare
•  Respect for human rights, including the elimination of 
child and forced labor
•  Respect for worker rights, including freedom of association 
and collective bargaining
•  Responsible environmental stewardship, including 
obtaining all required licenses, permits and approvals, 
and systems for recycling, reuse and responsible 
management of waste, emissions and water
•  Meeting Abbott’s standards and all legal and regulatory 
requirements on health and safetyWe make our Supplier Guidelines available in multiple 
languages on our website. Suppliers are responsible for 
confirming their compliance and providing relevant 
training to their employees in order to meet our standards. 
In addition to the Supplier Guidelines, we also use the 
following guidelines and policies to embed sustainability 
considerations into our supply chain management: 
•  Our Green Procurement Guidelines incorporate the 
principle of environmentally preferable products, which 
guide our sourcing team on identifying environmentally 
preferable choices and asking our suppliers to provide 
these options. 
•  Our Water Guidelines require transparency from our 
suppliers about their water management practices  
and aim to establish sustainable water management 
throughout our supply chain. 
•  Our Climate Responsible Energy Guidelines encourage 
suppliers to reduce their carbon footprints and improve 
energy efficiency. 
•  The Abbott Supplier Diversity Policy commits our 
organization to equal opportunities for businesses that 
are small or are majority-owned and operated by a 
member of an under-represented group (for example, 
women, ethnic minorities, veterans, members of the 
LGBTQ community or individuals with a disability). We monitor compliance with these guidelines through our 
Supplier Social Responsibility Program and contracting 
process, and we work with suppliers to improve their 
performance, where required.
Selecting and Classifying Suppliers
We consider environmental, social and governance factors 
when selecting our suppliers, in addition to a supplier’s 
business capabilities and capacities, financial health, and 
strategic alignment with Abbott’s vision. We use supplier 
classification models to identify levels of risk attached to 
different supplier relationships.
Our Approved Suppliers List categorizes all Abbott 
suppliers as either high (critical), medium or low risk.  
We classify a supplier as critical if it supplies materials, 
components and services that can influence the safety and 
performance of our products; if the supplier is the only 
approved source for materials, components and services;  
or if it is otherwise integral to business continuity. We  
also take into account the degree of transparency and 
complexity involved in a specific supply chain, whether  
a supplier is certified, how close the supplier’s position is 
to our patients in the supply chain, and whether there is 
the potential for a supplier counterfeiting our products.The quality, resilience and sustainability of  
our supply chain are essential to delivering  
the products that people depend on.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT103          STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINMonitoring and Evaluating Suppliers
Abbott has a supplier sustainability assessment program, 
made up of assessments, surveys and audits, that is 
designed to improve resilience and business continuity 
across our supply chain.We use the DHL Resilience360© risk matrix tool to 
analyze about 10,000 sourcing locations for our critical 
suppliers and assess their level of risk. Resilience360© is  
a real-time risk monitoring tool that issues alerts when 
risks emerge for a particular location. Resilience360© 
sustainability risk scores are calculated on the individual 
subscores for personal freedom, workers’ rights and  
child labor, in addition to an environmental score. The 
calculation uses an inverted geo-means formula and 
category weightings to indicate the overall sustainability 
risk. We survey suppliers that are deemed high risk 
annually. Our category sourcing leads identify additional 
key suppliers to be included in our annual Supplier  
Sustainability Survey.
  
Abbott’s Supplier Sustainability Survey is made up of 
about 30 questions, covering areas such as ethics, human 
rights and labor practices, health and safety, environmental 
performance, and supply chain management. Based on the 
survey responses, we select suppliers to participate in our 
annual audit program. The minimum time between audits 
for any given supplier is three years, with the frequency 
determined by the supplier’s sustainability survey score. We work with suppliers to address any sustainability- 
related risks that our surveys and audits identify. In cases 
of major and zero-tolerance findings, we require the 
supplier to submit corrective and preventive action plans 
(CAPAs) as a document within 30 days of receiving the 
audit results. The owner of the supplier relationship  
at Abbott then follows up to ensure that the CAPAs  
are implemented. 
In addition to our supplier sustainability surveys and 
audits, we have programs to assess our chemical, active 
pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and waste suppliers  
to ensure that they are appropriately evaluating and 
mitigating environmental, health and safety risks associated 
with their industries. See page 96 for more details about 
these programs. 2018  
2017  HIGH SUSTAINABILITY RISK SUPPLIERS1
2019255
253
261
25% – High Sustainability Risk Suppliers Engaged Annually
75% – High Sustainability Risk Suppliers Engaged Within Last 3 YearsNumber of High Sustainability Risk Suppliers Engaged to 
Understand Sustainability Performance, Risk and OpportunitiesABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT104          STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINSafeguarding Business Continuity 
Abbott’s Supply Chain Council and a Business Continuity 
group also use the DHL Resilience tool on a real-time 
basis to track the geopolitical, security, sustainability, 
environmental and infrastructure risks that could affect 
Abbott’s supply chain. Through this system, we have 
identified more than 100 suppliers at high risk of losing 
manufacturing capacity due to natural disasters, and all 
Abbott businesses have prepared contingency plans for 
such catastrophic events.
We also use the World Resources Institute Aqueduct™ 
tool to determine which suppliers have the greatest risk  
of water supply interruptions. This mapping has identified 
that 23 percent of our critical suppliers currently operate 
in areas of high and extremely high baseline water stress. 
Mapping water stress in this way allows our businesses  
to engage with affected suppliers to ensure business 
continuity. For more information about our water risk 
management, see page 84 in the Safeguarding the 
Environment section.Supplier Sustainability Performance
Abbott’s Supplier Sustainability Program includes 
assessing, surveying and auditing critical and key suppliers 
to confirm adherence to our Supplier Guidelines. During 
2019, we asked 350 of our critical suppliers to respond to 
our Supplier Sustainability Survey and received a response 
rate of 73 percent. 
In addition to increasing Abbott’s understanding of our 
supply chain sustainability-related risks and opportunities, 
the survey acts as a self-assessment tool for our suppliers. 
Of those that responded, 83 percent indicated that they 
have environment, health and safety and sustainability 
programs; 94 percent have code of conduct and ethics 
policies; 100 percent have not had any violations with 
respect to ethics compliance, human rights, labor practices, 
and health and safety; 88 percent have business continuity 
plans in place; and 64 percent have strategies to work  
with diverse suppliers. Fifty-two percent of the suppliers 
that responded indicated that they hold ISO 14001 or 
equivalent European Union Eco-Management and Audit 
Scheme (EMAS) certification.We also conducted site audits at 26 suppliers that we 
identified as being at high risk for sustainability issues. 
These audits used Workplace Conditions Assessment 
standards. In 76 percent of cases, the audits were  
acceptable, with minor observations. We worked with  
the remaining suppliers to address the needs that the 
audits identified. In total, we have audited 9 percent  
of our Tier 1 suppliers over the past three years.PERFORMANCE UPDATESABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT105          STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSupplier Diversity
Abbott’s Supplier Diversity Program is designed to 
identify diverse and historically disadvantaged suppliers 
and provide them with access to economic opportunities 
that have been denied in the past. Our goal is to promote 
an inclusive environment, where groups traditionally 
underrepresented in business can partner with  
Abbott to participate in our supply chain. In 2019,  
we strengthened our new supplier onboarding process  
to increase the number of LGBTQ, minority and  
women-owned businesses. 
 
During the year, we worked with 5,720 diverse suppliers. 
The $1.9 billion we spent with these suppliers represents 
19 percent of our total spend in North America. It also 
represents an 18 percent increase over the previous year’s 
amount, when our 2018 spend is recalculated using our 
broader diverse supplier definition. This exceeds our 
target of 10 percent growth in diverse supplier spend.  
Our target for 2020 spend is $1.9 billion spent.  
  
We have also continued to strengthen our Supplier 
Diversity Tier 2 program, which focuses on growing  
the diversity of our extended supply chain. Under the 
program, we work with key and strategic suppliers to 
encourage them to increase their own supplier diversity. ABBOTT’S KEY SUPPLY CHAIN  
INITIATIVES
LAUNCHING A FORMAL PROCESS   
for assessing supplier risk and compliance  
with our Social Responsibility Guidelines by 
surveying suppliers on social and environmental 
sustainability issues  
ENSURING A DIVERSE SUPPLY CHAIN   
that secures inclusion of diverse suppliers to drive 
economic growth in North America  
AUDITING HIGH SUSTAINABILITY RISK 
SUPPLIERS for social and environmental  
sustainability issues (including priority areas,  
such as labor, human rights, environment and 
anti-corruption)  
CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT in which 
suppliers can leverage best practices and  
shared experiencesAMOUNT SPENT ON DIVERSE SUPPLIERS
2020
TARGET: 
$1.9 BILLION 
SPENT2019:
$1.9 BILLION 
SPENT*
2018: 
$1.4 BILLION 
SPENT2017:
$1.29 BILLION 
SPENT
 *Target: Increase spend by 10 percent compared to 2018.
Goal achieved.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT106          STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINAbbott has partnered with the Council for Supplier 
Diversity and officially launched the Abbott Supplier 
Diversity Connections and Five Forward program, in 
collaboration with Chicago United. This program 
connects diverse suppliers to business opportunities  
and provides mentoring opportunities to help develop 
business acumen. Abbott also continues to play an active 
role within the Diverse Manufacturing Supply Chain 
Alliance (DMSCA), which aims to support small and 
minority-owned manufacturing suppliers bringing 
innovative solutions to market.
DiversityPlus magazine listed Abbott as a 2019 Top 10 
Champion of Diversity in recognition of our Supplier 
Diversity Program. The journals Black EOE Journal, 
Hispanic Network and U .S. Veterans Magazine also 
awarded Abbott the title of Best of the Best Supplier 
Diversity Program.Additional Strategic Initiatives 
As part of our approach to managing environmental  
and social sustainability risk in our supply chain, the  
SCC has developed strategic initiatives for the following 
high sustainability risk sourcing categories: 
• Agriculture 
• Dairy 
•  Chemicals of environmental concern and active 
pharmaceutical ingredients
• Energy
• Transportation and distribution 
• Packaging
• Waste management 
Our Global Procurement and Global Environment,  
Health and Safety (GEHS) teams are currently engaged  
in four one-to-one partnerships with strategic suppliers  
to identify sustainable supply chain opportunities. We 
work with these partners on sharing best practices on 
sustainability and exploring projects to improve the 
sustainability of our own products.   Agriculture
We have identified agriculture as a strategic sourcing 
category where the opportunity exists to significantly impact 
the sustainability of our supply chain. Abbott’s Food and 
Safety Council (including representatives from Supply Chain, 
Regulatory, and Research and Development) meets on a  
quarterly basis to address concerns related to our agriculture 
supply chain, including sustainability issues. We do not use 
palm oil in our products and ensure that all palm-affiliated 
products (such as palm nuts) are responsibly and  
ethically sourced.
Abbott is also a leader in food safety and sustainability 
through an internal surveillance program that tests  
above industry requirements. We put special emphasis  
on establishing strong global relationships with our  
supply base to control quality and sustainability.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT107          STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINAnimal Welfare in Dairy
Abbott is committed to improving the health and welfare 
of the dairy animals that produce our ingredients for  
our products around the world, and we fully support the 
Five Freedoms of animal welfare, as endorsed by the 
World Organization for Animal Health. We believe that 
this both enriches the lives of dairy cows and has social 
and economic benefits for dairy farmers. 
In 2019, our nutrition business continued to work on 
animal health and welfare programs with our dairy 
suppliers worldwide. We are working in partnership with 
World Animal Protection and our local dairy suppliers to 
further advance our animal welfare training program in 
India, which promotes better access to water, proper 
housing, animal nutrition and proper veterinary care.Chemicals of Concern
In 2017 , Abbott’s branded generic medicines business 
established an engagement program for suppliers of 
chemicals of environmental concern, including active 
pharmaceutical ingredients. The program aims to 
minimize our environmental risk exposure and ensure 
business continuity. 
Through the program, we identify suppliers operating in 
at-risk regions, including China, Europe, India and Latin 
America, that handle chemicals of high environmental 
concern if released into the environment, and we audit 
suppliers that we determine to be critical to the business 
or that have negative media exposure or notices of 
violation. Since this program launched in 2017 , we have 
completed 113 on-site EHS audits at supplier facilities,  
and 246 suppliers have completed self-surveys. In 2019, 
this program completed 29 EHS audits, and 52 self-surveys 
were completed by suppliers.Energy
Abbott’s Scope 3 emissions made up 94 percent of our 
carbon footprint. These are emissions resulting from  
the sourcing, distribution, consumption and disposal  
of our products.
3%
SCOPE 1:
DIRECT OPERATION  
CARBON EMISSIONS
3%
SCOPE 2:
INDIRECT OPERATION 
CARBON EMISSIONS
94%
SCOPE 3:
VALUE CHAIN  
CARBON EMISSIONSABBOTT’S 2019 CARBON FOOTPRINTWe are committed to enriching the lives of the 
dairy animals around the world that produce our 
ingredients for our products.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT108          STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINWe engage our suppliers around their carbon emissions 
performance and climate-related activities through 
targeted initiatives within Abbott’s Supplier Sustainability 
Program. Through our Supplier Sustainability Survey, we 
annually assess critical and key suppliers to understand 
their carbon emission strategies and performance, as well 
as their climate-related risks and opportunities. 
In 2019, we surveyed 350 suppliers on environmental 
practices and performance, achieving a 73 percent 
response rate. This survey showed that 83 percent  
of suppliers were subject to climate-related risks  
(a 12 percent increase over last year); 58 percent had 
active carbon reduction targets; 80 percent are integrating 
climate issues into their long-term business objectives; 
and 53 percent are engaging with their suppliers on 
climate change.
Our Global EHS and Procurement teams work together  
to purchase electricity from utility providers that include 
above-average renewable generation in their energy mix. 
We estimate that Abbott sites that purchased energy from 
renewable sources saved 79,000 metric tons of CO2e in 
2019. For more details of our renewable energy supply 
initiatives, see the Safeguarding Our Environment section 
on page 80 .Transportation and Fuel Efficiency
We have identified upstream and downstream transportation 
as a sourcing category in our supply chain with one of the 
greatest opportunities to reduce our Scope 3 carbon 
emissions. To improve transportation efficiencies affiliated 
with this sourcing category, we have implemented a variety 
of initiatives globally, including: 
•  Shifting to more sustainable transportation methods
•  Optimizing packaging and truckload efficiency
•  Implementing fuel efficiency requirements in contracts 
with our transportation suppliers
 
For example, beginning in 2018, Abbott’s U.S. businesses 
joined the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency SmartWay® 
program, which helps companies advance supply chain 
sustainability by measuring, benchmarking and improving 
freight transportation efficiency. In 2019, Abbott transported 
freight more than 40 million miles using multiple modes  
of transportation in North America, which is an increase of 
3.8 million miles since 2018. As a result of this program, as 
well as internal Abbott initiatives, Abbott’s supply chain 
transportation fuel efficiency in North America increased 
from 6.3 miles per gallon in 2018 to 6.8 miles per gallon in 
2019, saving an estimated 500,000 gallons of diesel fuel. In North America, Abbott’s nutrition business transports 
more freight than any other division, equating to more 
than 36 million miles in 2019 and 5.6 million gallons of 
diesel fuel consumption in support of its supply chain 
activities. While this business grew in 2019, resulting in 
total mileage increasing by about 2 percent, we were able 
to improve transportation efficiency and reduce the 
associated carbon emissions through implementing 
operational improvements. These improvements included 
increasing truckload efficiency by 2 percent, decreasing 
miles per truckload by 5 percent and shifting 7 percent  
of freight to more sustainable transportation methods.
1. Abbott considers a supplier to have high sustainability risk when a supplier is found by 
either screening, survey or on-site audit to have potential risk exposure to unintended 
environmental or social damage, business discontinuity, and regulatory lapses. ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 109          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYREPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITY
Focusing on Sustainability .................................................  111
Key Financial Metrics .......................................................  113
Key Social Metrics ............................................................  114
Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions and Energy .... 117
Key Environmental Metrics — Water ............................. 127
Key Environmental Metrics — Waste ............................. 130
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Fines, 
Notices and Inspections ............................................ 136
Metrics Endnotes .............................................................. 137SECTION 7
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
MINISTRY  OF HEALTH PARTNERSHIP
CREATING LASTING  
CHANGE
Twenty years ago, before treatment and testing for HIV/AIDS  
was as robust as it is today, we began a collaboration with the 
government of Tanzania to help children affected by HIV/AIDS. 
What started out as support to children and orphans grew much 
broader over the years to ultimately helping strengthen the  
country’s entire health system, including emergency medical care. “Healthcare in Tanzania was far behind other parts of the world,”  
said Upendo George, M.D., one of the leading emergency physicians 
in East Africa. Through creating the nation’s first emergency 
department to connecting regional labs — where it used to take  
weeks to get results it now takes minutes or hours — the result is  
a more sustainable healthcare system throughout the country. 5,000  
LIVES SAVED EVERY YEAR  
IN THE EMERGENCY  
MEDICINE DEPARTMENT> UPENDO GEORGE, M.D.
Upendo George, M.D., was one of the 
first women to join the field of 
emergency medicine in Tanzania.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT111          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITY ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOCUSING ON SUSTAINABILITY
Abbott’s sustainability reporting seeks to address the 
interests of a range of stakeholders. These include investors, 
customers, suppliers, employees, and government and 
regulatory bodies, as well as communities, nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs) and opinion leaders. We align our 
approach with the requirements of leading environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) ratings and sustainability 
indices and then seek feedback from our stakeholders in 
order to drive continuous improvement.
Evolving Our Approach
We have been reporting on aspects of our sustainability 
activities since the early 1970s, when our first reports 
focused on community engagement and environmental 
impacts. Our approach to reporting has always evolved 
along with our business and the environment in which we 
operate. This year, our Sustainability Overview section 
outlines how we integrate sustainability into Abbott’s 
business, as well as provides an update on the development 
of our Sustainability Plan. Throughout our 2019 report,  
we analyze our performance against sustainability key 
performance indicators (KPIs) while providing important 
context on our governance and management approach to 
key sustainability issues. Each year, we align our reporting 
to the requirements of leading ESG ratings, as well as 
sustainability indices. We also refer to external standards on reporting and 
emissions calculations, such as the GRI (Global Reporting 
Initiative) G4 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) standards and the World Resources Institute/
World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP), and 
have aligned the content of this report with many of the 
requirements of those standards. 
Additional sustainability reports and performance 
updates, including country reports for key markets, can be 
found on the Sustainability Reporting page on our website.“For 20 years, we’ve worked to 
transform the Tanzanian health 
system in partnership with the 
government of Tanzania and local 
communities. Together, we have 
made sustainable healthcare 
more accessible to more people 
around the country – from regional 
laboratories to the creation  
of the country’s first-ever 
emergency room.” 
FRANK G. KANZA
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEMBER AND  
DIRECTOR OF FACILITIES,
ABBOTT FUND TANZANIAABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT112          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYScope of This Report
• All financial information is stated in U.S. dollars. 
•  All data in this report reflects Abbott’s activities, with  
a focus on 2019 results.
•  Unless otherwise noted, the data in this report includes 
our rapid diagnostics business (formerly known as 
Alere), except for Scope 3 in our environmental metrics 
for 2010–2018. We plan to include complete data on  
our rapid diagnostics business in the 2020 Global 
Sustainability Report.
•  Neither this report nor our website contains  
performance information about our joint ventures, 
unless otherwise noted.
•  Select information and data calculations from prior 
years have been adjusted to reflect the company’s 
separation from AbbVie in January 2013.
•  The Abbott Fund is an Illinois not-for-profit philanthropic 
corporation established by Abbott in 1951.
•  Our 2020 Global Sustainability Report will be published 
by the third quarter of 2021.Reporting Feedback
We draw upon many external sources of expertise to 
develop and execute our sustainability strategy. These 
external experts also guide our engagements with key 
stakeholders, the development of our Responsibility 
website and the production of this sustainability report. 
We gratefully acknowledge the counsel we receive from 
Corporate Citizenship, SustainAbility, the GRI and 
WBCSD, among others. Our engagement with these 
groups better informs our approach to reporting. It  
also keeps us abreast of stakeholder expectations and 
helps us identify areas of opportunity for strengthening 
stakeholder engagement. 
We welcome feedback on our report. Please send us an 
email at responsibility@abbott.com to share yours.
External Assurance
Abbott engaged an independent assurance provider, Apex 
Companies (formerly Bureau Veritas North America), to 
conduct assurance of selected 2019 environmental and 
safety data. The Environmental Policy page on our website 
includes a PDF of the Apex Assurance Statement.Transparency on Policies
Our policies always seek to meet or exceed the national 
and international standards in the countries where we 
operate. The following critical policies can be found on 
our website:
• Code of Business Conduct
• Supplier Guidelines
• Position Statement on Conflict Minerals
• Environment Policy
• Energy Policy
• Water Policy
• Environmental Procurement Guidelines
• Global Environment, Health and Safety Standards
• Environmental and Safety Assurance Statement
•  Anti-Corruption Training Guide for Companies Doing 
Business With Abbott
• Clinical Trial Registration and Results Disclosures
• Financial Reports for Healthcare-Related Organizations
• Stakeholder Engagement Policy
• Position Statement on Tax
• Commitment to Cybersecurity
• Position Statement on Human Rights
• Global Infant Formula Marketing Policy
• Global Animal Welfare PolicyABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT113          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYKEY FINANCIAL METRICS
R&D INVESTMENT 
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS
TOTAL
2019                                                                            $2,440
2018 $2,300
2017 $2,260
2016 $1,447SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS(a) 
DOLLARS IN BILLIONS
TOTAL
2019                                                                            $7.5
2018 $8.4
2017 $8.7
2016 $8.5DIVIDENDS PAID  
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS
TOTAL
2019                                                                            $2,270
2018 $1,974
2017 $1,849
2016 $1,539REPORTING ON  
SUSTAINABILITY
SALES WORLDWIDE  
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS
TOTAL
2019                                                                            $31,904
2018 $30,578
2017 $27,390
2016 $20,853
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT114          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYKEY SOCIAL METRICS
U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS 
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS
TOTAL
2019                                                                            $6.71
2018 $6.58
2017 $5.61
2016 $5.60EMPLOYEES
TOTAL% of Women  
in Management (U.S.)(c)% of Minorities  
in Management (U.S.)(c)
2019                                                                            107,000(b)41% 36%
2018 103,000 40% 34%
2017 99,000 43% 30%
2016 94,000 47% 31%REPORTING ON  
SUSTAINABILITY
SOCIAL INVESTING 
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS
TOTAL
2019                                                                            $70.6
2018 $62.7
2017 $65.0
2016 $36.9
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT115          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYHEALTH AND  
SAFETY GLOBAL  
PERFORMANCE
LOST-TIME CASE RATE(a)
CASES PER 100 WORKERS(d)
TOTAL  
 Employee and ContractorTOTAL  
EmployeeTOTAL  
Contractor
2020 GOAL                                                                                         0.15
2019                                                                                        25%(e) 0.30 0.33 0.05
2018 0.24 0.27 0.03
2017 0.23 0.25 0.04
2016 0.19 0.21 0.05OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS FREQUENCY RATE(a) 
ILLNESSES PER MILLION HOURS (EMPLOYEE AND CONTRACTOR)
2019                                                                            0.2
2018 0.2
2017 0.2
2016 0.2
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT116          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYRECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS RATE(a) 
INCIDENTS PER 100 WORKERS(d)
2019                                                                            0.47
2018 0.40
2017 0.41
2016 0.35
GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE(a) 
ACCIDENTS PER MILLION MILES DRIVEN (EMPLOYEE ONLY)
2020 GOAL 4.0
2019  -7.3%(e)                                                                           3.8
2018 4.1
2017 4.9
2016 5.3HEALTH AND  
SAFETY GLOBAL  
PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT117          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYKEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — EMISSIONS AND ENERGY 
SCOPE 1 AND 2 CARBON EMISSIONS  
1,000 METRIC TONS CO2e
TOTAL  
 (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
Market-Based
CO2e Emissions(h),(i)TOTAL  
 (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
Location-Based
CO2e EmissionsPurchased Fuels  
(Scope 1) 
CO2e Emissions(j)Refrigerant  
(Scope 1) 
CO2e Emissions(k)Total Direct  
(Scope 1) 
CO2e EmissionsPurchased Energy  
(Scope 2)  
Market-Based 
CO2e Emissions(h),(i)Purchased Energy  
(Scope 2)  
Location-Based 
CO2e Emissions(l)
2019                                                                                    -0.5%(e) 972 1,051 523 10 533 439 518
2018 976 1,052 521 10 531 445 521
2017 1,003 1,052 520 10 530 472 522
2016 1,120 1,089 512 15 527 592 561
2010(f)                                                                               1,269 1,269 612 9 620 648 648
SCOPE 1 AND 2 CARBON EMISSIONS – NORMALIZED TO SALES  
METRIC TONS CO2e PER $ MILLION SALES
TOTAL  
 (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
Market-Based
CO2e Emissions(i)TOTAL  
 (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
Location-Based
CO2e EmissionsTotal Direct  
(Scope 1)
CO2e Emissions(j)Purchased Energy  
(Scope 2)  
Market-Based  
CO2e Emissions(h),(i)Purchased Energy  
(Scope 2)  
Location-Based 
CO2e Emissions(j) 
2020 GOAL                                                                                 -40%(g),(h)32
2019                                                                                    -4.6%(e) 30 33 17 14 16
2018 32 34 17 15 17
2017 34 36 18 16 18
2016 40 39 19 21 20
2010(f)                                                                               53 53 26 27 27EMISSIONS AND ENERGY 
GLOBAL PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT118          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYSCOPE 1 AND 2 CARBON EMISSIONS BY ENERGY SOURCE(m)
1,000 METRIC TONS CO2e – MARKET-BASED FACTORS 
 2010(f)2016 2017 2018 2019
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 615 536 416 391 371
Natural Gas 294 365 363 374 364
Fuel Oils 41 3 6 4 4
Coal 83 0 0 0 0
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene, LPG, LNG) 1 11 10 12 11
Purchased Steam, Hot Water and  
Chilled Water 24 6 6 6 6
Biofuels 0 0 0 0 0
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration  
and Renewables) 0 0 0 0 0
Other Building Electricity 50 50 50 49 62
Other Building Natural Gas 9 9 9 8 9
Stationary Total 1,118 979 859 843 826
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 107 93 100 90 94
Sales Fleet Diesel 27 24 25 26 34
Aviation Fuel 5 6 6 7 6
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline,  
E85, Propane) 2 2 1 1 2
Mobile Total 142 126 133 123 135EMISSIONS AND ENERGY 
GLOBAL PERFORMANCE
SCOPE 3 CARBON EMISSIONS(n) 
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EMISSIONS
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL
2019(d)                                                                           94%
2018 93%
2017 93%
2016 93%
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT119          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYOTHER EMISSIONS(o) 
1,000 METRIC TONS
 2010(f)2016 2017 2018 2019
Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions 1.47 1.18 1.17 1.23 1.16
Sulfur Oxide (SOx) from Combustion 0.58 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.05
Nitrous Oxide (NOx) from Combustion 0.41 0.32 0.32 0.33 0.32
Particulate Matter 0.13 0.09 0.07 0.07 0.06
OTHER EMISSIONS – NORMALIZED TO SALES(o) 
METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES
 2010(f)2016 2017 2018 2019
Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions 0.062 0.042 0.040 0.040 0.036
Sulfur Oxide (SOx) from Combustion 0.025 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.002
Nitrous Oxide (NOx) from Combustion 0.017 0.011 0.011 0.011 0.010
Particulate Matter 0.006 0.003 0.002 0.002 0.002ENERGY CONSUMPTION – NORMALIZED TO SALES  
GIGAJOULES PER $ MILLION SALES
 2010(f)2016 2017 2018 2019
Purchased Fuels (Scope 1)(j)442 342 338 325 284
Purchased Energy (Scope 2)(j)202 164 157 146 139
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
Energy Consumption 644 506 495 472 423ENERGY CONSUMPTION  
1,000 GIGAJOULES
 2010(f)2016 2017 2018 2019
Purchased Fuels (Scope 1)(j)10,501 9,584 9,844 9,943 9,068
Purchased Energy (Scope 2)(j)4,785 4,612 4,556 4,480 4,427
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
Energy Consumption 15,286 14,196 14,400 14,424 13,494EMISSIONS AND ENERGY 
GLOBAL PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT120          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE(m) 
1,000 GIGAJOULES
 2010(f)2016 2017 2018 2019
STATIONARY SOURCES
Electricity (Purchased) 4,191 3,893 3,837 3,884 3,916
Natural Gas 5,554 6,900 6,864 7,062 6,875
Fuel Oils 556 36 86 56 51
Coal 935 0 0 0 0
Misc. Fuels (Propane, Kerosene,  
LPG, LNG) 21 137 127 140 138
Purchased Steam, Hot Water and Chilled Water 536 111 108 115 108
Biofuels 58 7 9 9 10
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration and 
Renewables) 0 1 4 5 4
Other Building Electricity 499 499 499 612 374
Other Building Natural Gas 234 234 234 149 152
Stationary Total 12,584 11,817 11,768 12,032 11,628
MOBILE SOURCES
Sales Fleet Gasoline 1,604 1,390 1,501 1,338 1,269
Sales Fleet Diesel 386 342 356 365 483
Aviation Fuel 76 93 94 95 93
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline,  
E85, Propane) 36 30 21 19 22
Mobile Total 2,102 1,855 1,972 1,817 1,867EMISSIONS AND ENERGY 
GLOBAL PERFORMANCE
RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY  
MILLION KILOWATT HOURS
 2010(f)2016 2017 2018 2019
Generated On-Site from Cogeneration 35.51 45.33 55.86 65.66 64.20
Generated On-Site from Renewables 0.05 0.31 1.18 1.30 1.21
Purchased Renewables from Third Party 0.00 20.44 134.13 150.47 151.20
Purchased Cogeneration from Third Party 38.44 3.66 3.87 4.28 4.33
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT121          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYSCOPE 1 AND 2 CARBON EMISSIONS BY REGION 
1,000 METRIC TONS CO2e – MARKET-BASED (CORPORATE EMISSION FACTORS)
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
ASIA PACIFIC
China 19 34 31 30 31
India 18 39 37 34 38
Indonesia 2 3 3 3 4
Japan 2 2 2 2 2
Korea (South) 4 3 3 3 2
Malaysia 0 9 9 9 9
Pakistan 19 21 22 24 23
Singapore 45 43 43 45 44
Vietnam 1 1 2 3 3
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)74 73 72 74 80
Region Total 184 228 223 227 235
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 12 16 12 11 10
Brazil 3 5 5 6 6
Chile 4 4 4 3 3
Colombia 1 2 3 3 3
Costa Rica 0 2 <1 <1 <1
Mexico 16 14 13 13 13
Peru 1 1 1 2 2
Puerto Rico 57 12 14 11 10
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)25 24 28 20 26
Region Total 120 80 80 70 72EMISSIONS AND ENERGY  
REGIONAL PERFORMANCE
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
EUROPE
Belgium <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Germany 33 35 25 16 17
Ireland 66 68 31 31 31
Netherlands 71 73 40 35 31
Norway <1 <1 <1 <1 2
Russia 17 23 25 27 23
Spain 11 11 8 10 10
Sweden <1 0 0 0 0
Switzerland <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
United Kingdom 19 13 11 12 12
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)42 40 46 39 44
Region Total 259 264 185 169 169
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 22 14 15 15 15
United States 626 487 455 449 424
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)57 46 46 46 55
Region Total 706 548 515 510 495
Total for All Regions 1,269 1,120 1,003 976 972
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT122          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYSCOPE 1 (DIRECT) EMISSIONS BY REGION 
1,000 METRIC TONS CO2e – MARKET-BASED (CORPORATE EMISSION FACTORS)
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
ASIA PACIFIC
China 4 12 10 10 10
India 1 11 11 15 17
Indonesia <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Japan 0 <1 <1 <1 <1
Korea (South) <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Malaysia 0 <1 <1 <1 <1
Pakistan 16 18 19 20 20
Singapore 18 21 20 23 22
Vietnam 0 0 <1 <1 <1
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)31 30 29 34 42
Region Total 72 93 89 103 112
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 6 7 4 3 3
Brazil 2 2 2 4 5
Chile <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Colombia <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Costa Rica 0 <1 <1 <1 <1
Mexico 15 14 12 13 13
Peru <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Puerto Rico 45 5 8 5 5
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)22 21 25 16 17
Region Total 92 49 52 43 442010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
EUROPE
Belgium <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Germany 12 13 12 11 12
Ireland 38 32 29 30 31
Netherlands 41 32 34 35 31
Russia 13 14 15 17 13
Spain 7 7 5 5 5
United Kingdom 5 3 3 3 3
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)32 30 36 31 31
Region Total 149 132 135 134 127
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 13 9 9 9 9
United States 242 203 203 202 198
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)54 43 42 41 44
Region Total 308 254 255 253 250
Total for All Regions 620 527 530 531 533EMISSIONS AND ENERGY  
REGIONAL PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT123          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYSCOPE 2 (PURCHASED ENERGY) EMISSIONS BY REGION 
1,000 METRIC TONS CO2e – MARKET-BASED (CORPORATE EMISSION FACTORS)
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
ASIA PACIFIC
China 16 22 21 20 20
India 17 28 27 19 22
Indonesia 2 2 3 3 3
Japan 2 2 2 2 2
Korea (South) 3 2 3 2 2
Malaysia 0 9 9 9 9
Pakistan 2 3 3 3 4
Singapore 26 22 23 22 21
Vietnam 1 1 2 3 2
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)43 43 43 41 38
Region Total 113 135 134 124 123
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 6 9 9 8 7
Brazil 1 3 2 1 2
Chile 3 3 3 3 3
Colombia 1 2 2 3 2
Costa Rica 0 2 <1 <1 <1
Mexico <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Peru 1 1 1 1 1
Puerto Rico 12 8 6 6 5
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)3 3 3 4 9
Region Total 27 31 28 27 292010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
EUROPE
Belgium <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Germany 21 22 13 5 5
Ireland 28 36 1 <1 0
Netherlands 30 41 6 0 0
Norway <1 <1 <1 <1 2
Russia 4 8 10 10 9
Spain 4 5 3 5 5
Sweden <1 0 0 0 0
Switzerland <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
United Kingdom 13 10 8 9 9
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)9 9 9 7 13
Region Total 110 132 50 36 42
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 10 5 6 6 6
United States 384 285 251 247 226
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)4 4 4 5 12
Region Total 398 294 260 258 245
Total for All Regions 648 592 472 445 439EMISSIONS AND ENERGY  
REGIONAL PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT124          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYTOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (SCOPE 1 AND 2) BY REGION 
1,000 GIGAJOULES   
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
ASIA PACIFIC
China 124 311 288 282 284
India 140 282 272 360 401
Indonesia 15 20 21 21 16
Japan 17 14 15 15 15
Korea (South) 37 37 37 37 37
Malaysia 0 49 46 48 50
Pakistan 306 313 311 350 332
Singapore 515 556 539 604 593
Vietnam 9 12 14 24 26
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)862 834 822 798 748
Region Total 2,026 2,429 2,364 2,539 2,503
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 109 141 133 128 118
Brazil 81 84 92 113 117
Chile 40 36 32 28 31
Colombia 33 45 52 58 63
Costa Rica 0 101 102 106 109
Mexico 275 246 219 213 230
Peru 19 18 19 21 22
Puerto Rico 652 117 160 121 132
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)424 404 463 301 325
Region Total 1,633 1,192 1,272 1,106 1,1462010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
EUROPE
Belgium 3 3 3 3 3
Germany 376 308 340 298 293
Ireland 728 741 660 674 683
Netherlands 961 825 870 923 856
Norway 21 21 21 21 21
Russia 265 336 357 385 329
Spain 144 155 125 130 127
Sweden 30 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 5 2 2 2 2
United Kingdom 192 126 134 140 133
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)645 616 705 551 551
Region Total 3,371 3,132 3,216 3,129 2,999
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 408 288 292 312 315
United States 6,379 5,928 5,901 5,854 5,785
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)1,469 1,228 1,354 1,484 746
Region Total 8,256 7,443 7,547 7,650 6,846
Total for All Regions 15,286 14,196 14,400 14,424 13,494EMISSIONS AND ENERGY  
REGIONAL PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT125          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED FUELS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION 
1,000 GIGAJOULES 
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
ASIA PACIFIC
China 53 195 176 168 168
India 75 159 149 211 238
Indonesia 7 8 8 9 <1
Japan <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Korea (South) 2 2 2 2 2
Malaysia 0 1 1 1 1
Pakistan 288 287 284 319 300
Singapore 329 376 351 401 400
Vietnam 0 0 <1 1 3
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)468 440 428 501 486
Region Total 1,222 1,467 1,398 1,613 1,599
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 47 57 52 51 50
Brazil 25 19 39 72 70
Chile 13 7 5 4 6
Colombia 7 7 9 12 14
Costa Rica 0 2 2 4 3
Mexico 272 244 215 230 227
Peru 3 3 3 3 3
Puerto Rico 574 61 111 71 59
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)465 437 526 451 455
Region Total 1,407 836 962 898 8872010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
EUROPE
Belgium 1 1 1 1 1
Germany 222 202 198 197 191
Ireland 512 540 509 519 525
Netherlands 717 568 600 624 558
Russia 228 257 267 288 234
Spain 105 116 90 93 89
United Kingdom 96 52 54 56 52
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)465 437 526 451 455
Region Total 2,346 2,173 2,245 2,229 2,105
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 224 154 161 162 154
United States 4,034 3,918 3,947 3,923 3,876
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)1,401 1,160 1,286 1,335 650
Region Total 5,659 5,232 5,394 5,420 4,679
Total for All Regions 10,634 9,708 9,999 10,160 9,270EMISSIONS AND ENERGY  
REGIONAL PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT126          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION 
1,000 GIGAJOULES  
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
ASIA PACIFIC
China 70 116 112 114 115
India 65 123 123 149 163
Indonesia 9 12 12 12 16
Japan 17 14 15 15 15
Korea (South) 35 35 35 35 35
Malaysia 0 48 45 47 49
Pakistan 18 27 28 32 32
Singapore 187 180 188 202 194
Vietnam 9 12 13 23 24
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)394 394 394 297 262
Region Total 804 961 966 926 904
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 62 84 81 77 68
Brazil 56 65 54 41 47
Chile 26 30 26 24 25
Colombia 26 38 43 46 49
Costa Rica 0 99 99 102 106
Mexico 3 2 4 1 2
Peru 16 15 17 18 19
Puerto Rico 77 56 49 50 74
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)92 92 92 66 72
Region Total 359 480 465 425 4612010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
EUROPE
Belgium 2 2 2 2 2
Germany 154 105 142 101 102
Ireland 217 201 150 155 158
Netherlands 244 256 270 299 298
Norway 21 21 21 21 21
Russia 37 80 90 97 95
Spain 39 39 35 37 38
Sweden 30 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 5 2 2 2 2
United Kingdom 96 74 80 85 81
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)179 179 179 100 96
Region Total 1,025 960 971 900 895
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 184 134 131 149 161
United States 2,345 2,010 1,954 1,931 1,909
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total(p)68 68 68 149 96
Region Total 2,597 2,211 2,154 2,230 2,167
Total for All Regions 4,785 4,612 4,556 4,480 4,427EMISSIONS AND ENERGY  
REGIONAL PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT127          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYWATER GLOBAL 
PERFORMANCE
WATER INTAKE 
BILLION GALLONS
TOTALTotal  
Water-Stressed 
Locations(q)
2019                                                                                               -1%(e) 3.52 1.54 
2018 3.55 1.61
2017 3.47 1.62
2016 3.61 1.67
2010(f)3.65 1.61
WATER INTAKE  – NORMALIZED TO SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES
TOTALTotal  
Water-Stressed 
Locations(q)
2020 GOAL                                                                                           -30%(g)108
2019                                                                                              -5%(e)                                                                          110 48 
2018 116 53
2017 119 56
2016 129 60
2010(f)154 68KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — WATER
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT128          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYWATER CONSUMED IN PROCESS
BILLION GALLONS
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019% Change  
From 2018
to 2019
Total Water Consumed 0.68   0.78 0.68 0.70 0.60 -14%
WATER CONSUMED IN PROCESS – NORMALIZED TO SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019% Change  
From 2018
to 2019
Total Water Consumed 29 28 23 23 19 -18%WATER DISCHARGED
BILLION GALLONS
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019% Change  
From 2018
to 2019
Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 2.30 2.26 2.29 2.35 2.42 3%
Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 0.68 0.56 0.51 0.49 0.50 1%
WATER DISCHARGED – NORMALIZED TO SALES
GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019% Change  
From 2018
to 2019
Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 97 81 79 77 76 -1%
Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 29 20 17 16 16 -3%
BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) CONCENTRATION IN WASTEWATER  
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019% Change  
From 2018
to 2019
Concentration in Wastewater 
Discharged to the Environment(r)6 8 16 10 9 -13%WATER GLOBAL 
PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT129          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYWATER REGIONAL 
PERFORMANCE
WATER INTAKE BY REGION 
BILLION GALLONS
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
ASIA PACIFIC
China 0.03 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.09
India 0.06 0.12 0.12 0.14 0.15
Indonesia 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Japan <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01
Korea (South) 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Malaysia 0.00 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.02
Pakistan 0.12 0.13 0.13 0.15 0.14
Singapore 0.19 0.19 0.19 0.20 0.19
Vietnam <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01
Region Total 0.41 0.59 0.58 0.63 0.61
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 0.08 0.09 0.07 0.07 0.06
Brazil 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Chile 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Colombia 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Costa Rica 0.00 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03
Mexico 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.04
Peru 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Puerto Rico 0.16 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02
Region Total 0.33 0.25 0.20 0.21 0.212010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
EUROPE
Belgium 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Germany 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.05
Ireland 0.17 0.17 0.17 0.18 0.18
Netherlands 0.40 0.34 0.35 0.37 0.35
Norway <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01
Russia 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.05 0.03
Spain 0.06 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.07
Sweden <0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Switzerland <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01
United Kingdom 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Region Total 0.77 0.70 0.71 0.73 0.68
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 0.22 0.16 0.16 0.20 0.22
United States 1.91 1.91 1.81 1.78 1.80
Region Total 2.14 2.07 1.98 1.98 2.02
Total for All Regions 3.65 3.61 3.47 3.55 3.52
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT130          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYWASTE GLOBAL 
PERFORMANCE
TOTAL WASTE(s) 
TONS
TOTALTotal Waste  
Not LandfilledTotal Waste  
LandfilledTotal Waste  
Recycled
2019                                                                                                  2.2%(e) 67,711 51,538 16,173 32,230
2018 66,256 48,507 17,749 29,702
2017 66,712 47,455 19,257 29,163
2016 69,299 52,471 16,828 32,959
2010(f)                                                                               86,394 54,992 31,402 36,788
TOTAL WASTE – NORMALIZED TO SALES(s)
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES 
TOTAL
2020 GOAL                                                                                                  -50%(g)1.8
2019                                                                                                     -2%(e)                                                                   2.1
2018 2.2
2017 2.3
2016 2.5
2010(f)3.6KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — WASTE 
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT131          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYTOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE(s)  
TONS – MANUFACTURING, COMMERCIAL, NONCOMMERCIAL 
 2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019% Change  
From 2018
to 2019
Hazardous Waste Not Landfilled 9,722 6,516 6,996 6,859 7,904 15%
Hazardous Waste Landfilled 854 727 619 559 564 1%
Total Hazardous Waste 10,576 7,243 7,615 7,418 8,467 14%
TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE – NORMALIZED TO SALES(s)
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019% Change  
From 2018
to 2019
Total Hazardous Waste 0.45 0.26 0.26 0.24 0.27 9%TOTAL NONHAZARDOUS WASTE(s)  
TONS – MANUFACTURING, COMMERCIAL, NONCOMMERCIAL 
 2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019% Change  
From 2018
to 2019
Nonhazardous Waste Not Landfilled 45,270 45,955 40,459 41,648 43,635 5%
Nonhazardous Waste Landfilled 30,548 16,101 18,638 17,191 15,610 -9%
Total Nonhazardous Waste 75,818 62,056 59,097 58,839 59,245 1%
TOTAL NONHAZARDOUS WASTE – NORMALIZED TO SALES(s)
TONS PER $ MILLION SALES
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019% Change  
From 2018
to 2019
Total Nonhazardous Waste 3.19 2.21 2.03 1.92 1.86 -3%WASTE GLOBAL 
PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT132          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYBENEFICIAL USE(t) 
TONS
TOTAL Manufacturing (Tons) Commercial and Other Buildings (Tons)(u)
2019 123,579 123,103 476 
2018 97,797
2017 75,076
2016 67,017
2010(f)39,962
DIVERSION RATE(v) 
TOTAL (%) Manufacturing (%) Commercial and Other Buildings (%)(u)
2019 89.9% 90.2% 76.9%
2018 87.8%
2017 84.8%
2016 86.1%
2010(f)70.6%PACKAGING REDUCTION 
MILLION POUNDS OF PACKAGING
Cumulative  
Reduction (%)Cumulative  
Reduction (Million LB)
2020 GOAL                                                                     -10.00% 30.0
2019                                                                           -14.13% 41.8
2018 -13.91% 41.3
2017 -11.52% 34.1
2016 -6.46% 19.1
2010(f)0% 0WASTE GLOBAL 
PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT133          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYWASTE REGIONAL 
PERFORMANCE
TOTAL WASTE BY REGION(s) 
TONS
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
ASIA PACIFIC
China 2,763 3,171 2,946 2,903 2,952
India 2,063 2,245 2,200 2,166 2,498
Indonesia 205 16 26 28 26
Japan 755 657 642 561 612
Korea (South) 581 581 581 581 581
Malaysia 0 118 118 132 108
Pakistan 1,257 647 657 662 610
Singapore 3,993 2,654 1,836 2,587 2,011
Vietnam 49 40 114 70 84
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)2,172 2,172 2,172 1,569 2,218
Region Total 13,837 12,301 11,292 11,260 11,699
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 1,359 1,206 997 825 797
Brazil 680 660 615 637 709
Chile 580 776 708 633 617
Colombia 816 1,275 1,765 1,638 1,666
Costa Rica 0 1,222 1,334 1,593 1,368
Mexico 222 453 379 459 401
Peru 313 392 346 339 322
Puerto Rico 3,292 545 611 726 543
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)814 814 814 658 459
Region Total 8,076 7,343 7,569 7,507 6,8822010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
EUROPE
Belgium 368 368 368 382 433
Germany 2,226 2,761 2,529 3,062 3,457
Ireland 5,216 4,521 4,088 4,034 5,088
Netherlands 6,670 4,419 4,660 4,653 5,747
Norway 356 356 356 356 356
Russia 1,206 1,358 1,094 1,072 963
Spain 738 1,305 1,251 1,238 972
Sweden 113 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 91 53 49 40 45
United Kingdom 1,470 1,405 912 1,006 1,162
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)817 817 817 739 810
Region Total 19,272 17,364 16,124 16,581 19,031
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 1,313 758 790 728 828
United States 43,805 31,441 30,844 30,051 28,968
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)93 93 93 129 303
Region Total 45,210 32,291 31,727 30,908 30,099
Total for All Regions 86,394 69,299 66,712 66,256 67,711
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT134          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYHAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION(s) 
TONS
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
ASIA PACIFIC
China 52 68 71 68 82
India 264 286 503 298 485
Indonesia 7 8 10 14 15
Japan 38 33 32 31 31
Korea (South) 36 36 36 36 36
Malaysia 0 60 60 63 80
Pakistan 65 105 75 114 109
Singapore 24 12 20 19 29
Vietnam 16 17 53 42 51
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)190 190 190 157 24
Region Total 692 816 1,050 842 942
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 603 564 544 401 427
Brazil 117 158 202 203 342
Chile 237 330 156 164 299
Colombia 198 183 251 298 304
Costa Rica 0 378 386 459 441
Mexico 33 116 62 80 45
Peru 79 113 96 100 124
Puerto Rico 1,596 55 50 47 44
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)123 123 123 66 7
Region Total 2,985 2,020 1,869 1,819 2,0332010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
EUROPE
Belgium 8 8 8 2 14
Germany 490 971 593 739 781
Ireland 536 451 457 513 618
Netherlands 3,283 1,414 1,685 1,754 2,518
Norway 32 32 32 32 32
Russia 294 94 417 298 189
Spain 3 7 4 5 5
Sweden <1 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 2 <1 <1 <1 1
United Kingdom 545 148 128 131 183
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)66 66 66 74 27
Region Total 5,259 3,191 3,390 3,547 4,368
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 149 143 128 112 172
United States 1,483 1,064 1,169 1,086 947
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)9 9 9 13 5
Region Total 1,641 1,216 1,306 1,211 1,124
Total for All Regions 10,576 7,243 7,615 7,418 8,467WASTE REGIONAL 
PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT135          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYNONHAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION(s) 
TONS
2010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
ASIA PACIFIC
China 2,710 3,103 2,876 2,835 2,870
India 1,799 1,959 1,697 1,868 2,013
Indonesia 198 8 16 14 11
Japan 717 624 611 529 581
Korea (South) 545 545 545 545 545
Malaysia 0 58 58 69 28
Pakistan 1,192 541 581 548 501
Singapore 3,968 2,642 1,816 2,568 1,982
Vietnam 33 23 60 29 33
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)1,982 1,982 1,982 1,412 2,194
Region Total 13,145 11,485 10,242 10,418 10,757
CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA
Argentina 756 642 453 423 370
Brazil 563 502 413 433 367
Chile 343 446 552 470 317
Colombia 618 1,092 1,514 1,339 1,363
Costa Rica 0 844 949 1,134 927
Mexico 190 337 317 379 356
Peru 234 279 250 239 198
Puerto Rico 1,696 489 561 679 500
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)691 691 691 592 453
Region Total 5,091 5,322 5,700 5,689 4,8502010(f) 2016 2017 2018 2019
EUROPE
Belgium 361 361 361 379 419
Germany 1,736 1,790 1,936 2,323 2,676
Ireland 4,679 4,071 3,631 3,521 4,470
Netherlands 3,388 3,005 2,975 2,899 3,229
Norway 324 324 324 324 324
Russia 912 1,264 677 775 774
Spain 735 1,298 1,247 1,233 966
Sweden 112 0 0 0 0
Switzerland 89 52 49 40 44
United Kingdom 926 1,258 784 875 978
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)751 751 751 665 783
Region Total 14,013 14,172 12,734 13,034 14,663
NORTH AMERICA
Canada 1,164 615 662 617 657
United States 42,322 30,377 29,675 28,965 28,020
Commercial and Noncommercial Region Total(p)84 84 84 116 298
Region Total 43,569 31,075 30,421 29,697 28,975
Total for All Regions 75,818 62,055 59,097 58,838 59,244WASTE REGIONAL 
PERFORMANCE
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT136          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYEHS FINES, NOTICES OF  
VIOLATION AND GOVERNMENT  
AGENCY INSPECTIONS
EHS FINES 
U.S. DOLLARS
 2010(f)2016 2017 2018 2019
Environmental Fines 27,950 0 0 0 16,700
Health and Safety Fines 0 180 751 3,000 0
Total EHS Fines 27,950 180 751 3,000 16,700EHS NOTICES OF VIOLATION (NOV s)
 2010(f)2016 2017 2018 2019
Total EHS NOVs 4 4 4 7 4
EHS GOVERNMENT AGENCY INSPECTIONS(w)
 2010(f)2016 2017 2018 2019
Total EHS Inspections 46 61 130 139 182ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY (EHS) FINES,  
NOTICES AND INSPECTIONS 
Totals and percent changes may differ from listed metrics due to rounding.  
To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 137 for endnotes.ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT137          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYSums may not add up exactly due to rounding.All environmental data has been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance with the 
methodology prescribed in the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). We report data from acquisitions as soon as is practical. To 
that end, this data includes the acquisitions of St. Jude Medical, Glomed and Alere, Inc. Furthermore, this data 
reflects the divestiture of Abbott Medical Optics.
(a) Legacy Alere is included in Spend on Direct Suppliers, Health and Safety, and Scope 3 metrics beginning in 
2019. Metrics 2010–2018 do not include Legacy Alere. 
(b) This includes Alere employees. 
(c) These percentages are as of December 31, 2019. Percentages represent a count of U.S. employees, excluding 
the rapid diagnostics business. 
(d) Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees, assuming the average employee works 40 hours 
per week and 50 weeks per year. This is equivalent to 200,000 hours worked. 
(e) This is the percent change from 2018 to 2019. 
(f ) This is the baseline year. 
(g) This is the percent change from 2010 (goal). 
(h) Progress toward 2020 carbon goal is reported using the GHGP Scope 2 market-based methodology. 
(i) Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the GHGP market-based methodology. Per the GHGP , where 
market-based information is not available, location-based results have been used as proxy. 
( j) Reported Purchased Fuel Scope 1 sources consist of fuel consumed by manufacturing facilities, sales fleet 
and Abbott-owned aviation.  
(k) Per WRI GHGP , Scope 1 refrigerant CO2e emissions include only those covered in the Kyoto Protocol.
(l) Reported Scope 2 sources consist of energy directly purchased by Abbott, such as electricity and steam, as 
well as emissions from leased locations. Unless specified otherwise, emissions are calculated according to the 
WRI/WBCSD GHGP Scope 2 location-based method.  METRICS ENDNOTES
(m) Abbott’s nonenergy-consumption greenhouse gas emissions, such as refrigerant releases and process air 
emissions, are omitted. The total CO2 equivalents from nonenergy sources are noted in the Total Emissions 
(Scope 1 and 2) Table.  
(n) All Scope 3 calculations are adjusted to account for updated spend metrics. Sourcing category spend 
allocations are subject to change year over year in alignment with business strategy. 
(o) This reflects emissions from fuel combusted at manufacturing facilities only.
(p) Waste and CO2e Commercial Region Total data collection and calculation methodology were updated to 
better quantify years 2010–2017 .
(q) Water-stressed locations have been determined using the WRI Aqueduct™ global water risk mapping tool.
(r) BOD data provided is the flow-weighted averages of sampled concentrations for water directly discharged 
to the environment only. Water discharged directly to the environment represents about 11 percent of total 
water discharged. 
(s) Waste-generation data does not include materials that are reused beneficially.
(t) Abbott defines beneficial use activities as sending material that otherwise would have been a waste, off site 
to be used as an effective substitute for a commercial product or commodity. Beneficial use material is used as 
is or in substantially the same form as it was generated. 
(u) Abbott began calculating beneficial use commercial activities beginning in 2019.
(v) Abbott’s manufacturing diversion rate is calculated as follows: (beneficial use + recycling + incineration 
with energy recovery + other nonlandfill activities) / (total waste + beneficial use). Commercial and other 
building activities are not included in this rate. 
(w) The definition for “government agency inspection” was updated in 2017 by Abbott to include routine visits 
and sample collection from regulatory agencies or designated representatives. This change is not reflected in 
our metrics for 2010–2016, only 2017 forward. ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT138From Nigeria to Minnesota and Beyond
Jomi Babatunde-Omoya, a 16-year-old Abbott engineering 
intern, has always loved math and science. When her  
fifth grade class went on a field trip to a local college  
and shadowed engineering students, she realized it was 
possible to build a career following her passions. After 
spending the day learning the importance of engineering 
and participating in problem-solving exercises, she  
was hooked. 
Jomi’s journey from her native Nigeria to that day had not 
always been an easy one. Her parents, both successful in 
scientific fields in their home country, felt that they needed 
to raise their daughter in the United States to afford her 
the advanced education she would need for a career that 
allowed her to work anywhere in the world. 
Her family moved to Minnesota when Jomi was four years 
old and the changes were immediate. “I came from an area 
where everyone looked like me, sounded like me, to here 
where everyone treated me differently because they didn’t 
know much about me or where I came from,” Jomi said.  
“A lot of times I felt looked down upon, or dumber, because 
I came from another country. I wasn’t picked for classroom 
groups. Because people just didn’t know.”Over time, however, her teachers started to notice and 
believe in her and her talents. By the start of middle school, 
she was determined to sharpen her math and science skills.
“My favorite part of school was getting a problem and 
working in a group to find a solution,” Jomi said. She 
continued to concentrate on improving her science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) skills as she 
entered high school, even though she still believed that 
engineering careers were limited to the types of people  
she had met on her field trip years earlier.All of that changed when she was 15. She began studying 
with a college prep class tutor who shared her enthusiasm 
for engineering because he was an engineer himself. “He 
worked with me not to pass a test, but because he wanted 
me to ‘get it,’ so I would look forward to learning more and 
incorporating it into my career,” Jomi explained.
The final piece was put in place when a group of African 
American biomedical engineers came to her college prep 
class. “They explained what they did, how they got into it 
and their values seemed similar to mine. They showed me 
that someone who looked like me could do the job,” she said.
A year later, Jomi is pursuing her dream as a biomedical 
engineering intern at Abbott. In 2019, Abbott created a 
one-of-a-kind STEM Internship Blueprint, a resource for 
businesses looking to increase diversity in STEM through 
high school internships. To Jomi, being an engineer means 
making people’s lives better on a day-to-day basis, trusting 
in herself and others to “make the world a better place. I 
definitely want to have a career where I can go around the 
world and help people in other countries and places not  
as fortunate as where I live.”
To learn more about Jomi’s story, go to Abbott.com. For 
more information about our STEM Blueprint, go to the 
Valuing Our People section on page 51. ABOUT THE COVER
ABBOTT 2019 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT XX          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWWWW.ABBOTT.COM/SUSTAINABILITYPlease contact us with your questions and comments:
Abbott Sustainability 
100 Abbott Park Road, Department 0383  
Abbott Park, IL 60064-6048 
responsibility@abbott.com
Copyright © 2020 Abbott. All rights reserved.