GLOBAL 
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT 2021For Abbott, sustainability is about 
operating responsibly to deliver long-
term impact for people — shaping the 
future of healthcare to help more people 
live better, healthier lives. 
In this report, we detail our progress 
against the goals of our 2030 
Sustainability Plan. The data presented 
reflect 2021 performance unless 
otherwise stated. 
We have aligned our reporting 
with the requirements of leading 
environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) ratings and sustainability indices, 
seeking stakeholder feedback to drive 
continuous improvement.WelcomeTABLE OF CONTENTS 
Welcome
A Message From Our Chairman and CEO 3
Our Purpose in Action 4
About Abbott 7
Advancing Our Vision 8
Our 2030 Sustainability Plan 9 
Sustainability in Everything We Do 14
Innovate for Access and Affordability 
Our Approach to Access and Affordability  16
Innovating for Impact 18
Innovating to Improve Health Outcomes 19
Pricing Discipline to Improve Access 20
Infrastructure and Transforming   
Standards of Care   21
Abbott’s Community Impact  23
Responsibly Connect Data,  
Technology and Care 
Our Approach to Responsible Data 25
Data Privacy and Security, Governance  
and Management 26
Cybersecurity Management 27Build the Diverse, Innovative Workforce 
of Tomorrow 
Our Approach to Building  30 
Tomorrow’s Workforce 
Talent Management  31
Diversity and Inclusion  32
Protecting Human Rights 34
Employee Community Engagement  35
Compensation and Benefits  36
Employee Well-Being 37
Employee Health and Safety  38 
Protect a Healthy Environment 
Our Approach to Environmental Protection 41
Environmental Governance 42
Energy and Emissions 43 
Protecting Water Resources 46
Waste Management 49
Packaging 52
Responsible Sourcing and Product Stewardship 54
Environmental Investment and Compliance 55 
Quality Management 
Product Quality  57 Create a Resilient, Diverse  
and Responsible Supply Chain 
Our Approach to Supply Chain Management 63
Supply Chain Governance 64
Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement 67
Strategic Supply Chain Initiatives 70 
 
Governance and Sustainability 
Foundations 
Corporate Governance and Board Oversight 75 
Ethics and Integrity  78
Compliance 79
Corruption and Anti-Bribery  81
Protecting Our People, Products and Brands 83
Public Policy Engagement 85 
 
ESG Appendix
Appendix 87
Materiality  88
Stakeholder Engagement 89
Performance Tables 90
GRI Index 115
SASB Index 124
TCFD Response 130
SDG Index 132ON THE COVER
(L to R) Meghan Thompson, Senior Scientist, 
Biowearables; Erika Vargas Monestel, Diabetes 
Care Professional Development Program, and 
Former College Intern; and Junli Ou, Senior 
Manager of Clinical Research, Biowearables are 
just three of the hundreds of women in STEM 
helping Abbott create the future of healthcare.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
2
ABOUT
A Message From Our Chairman and CEO 
Dear Abbott Stakeholder,
As we approach our 135th year in business, 
it’s clear that Abbott is a company that 
endures. That’s because we’ve long 
understood that the key to sustaining our 
enterprise is a willingness to evolve it, to 
anticipate changes in the environment and to 
adapt Abbott in ways that make us best able to 
achieve our fundamental purpose — helping 
people live healthier, fuller lives. 
We’ve amply demonstrated that ability 
throughout our history, strategically 
reshaping Abbott to become one of the 
world’s leading health technology companies, 
with a broad portfolio and global reach that 
let us help more people than ever before.
The past few years have been among the 
most challenging in our lifetimes, but they’ve 
also highlighted for us the critical nature of 
the work we do and the significant positive 
impact we can have for patients and for the 
communities in which we operate. 
But we know that if we want to sustain that 
impact in a changing world, we can’t rely 
on the same playbooks we’ve used before. 
So, incorporating input from internal and external stakeholders, we developed a 10-year 
plan to identify the areas we need to focus on 
in order to grow sustainably.
Central to this plan is the idea that we can do 
the most good by pursuing our fundamental 
mission as a company: bringing life-changing 
technologies and products to the people and 
places that need them. That’s why we’re 
building affordability into our products to 
increase access to them, and breaking down 
barriers that prevent people from getting 
the care they need. And to support that 
core purpose, we’ve set ourselves ambitious 
goals in key areas that strengthen our 
foundation for the future, including building 
the workforce of tomorrow, responsibly 
applying data to advance care, building a 
more resilient, diverse and responsible supply 
chain, and protecting health by safeguarding 
the environment.
This report is the first to detail the progress 
we’ve made on these 2030 goals and, as you’ll 
read, we’re making real strides in all of these 
areas. We’re setting the foundation for our 
long-term success, but we’re also remaining 
responsive to the pressing issues of today.For example, our contributions to the fight 
against COVID-19 remained important and 
impactful (see page 6). We also stepped up 
in a variety of ways in response to the crisis 
in Ukraine, donating $6 million in funding 
and much-needed products to rebuild 
critical healthcare infrastructure and deliver 
emergency and primary healthcare services 
and supplies, working with humanitarian 
organizations including International 
Medical Corps, Americares, CARE and  
Project HOPE.
The values that drove those actions were 
also in evidence in our decision, in 2022, 
to recall infant formula produced at one of 
our U.S. plants (see page 60). Our people 
are committed to our Customer Pledge to 
make our products as if they’re for our own 
families; and we’ll be redoubling our efforts – 
across every business, across every part of the 
globe – to ensure that our long-established 
reputation for excellence and the highest 
product quality will remain our bedrock. At Abbott, we’re in the business of making 
people’s lives better, and we manage all 
aspects of the company to ensure we’ll 
be doing that for decades to come. Our 
fundamental goal is simple: we are working 
for a world with fewer barriers — one that 
enables people to live their fullest possible 
lives — creating healthier people, healthier 
communities and a healthier world.
Sincerely, 
Robert B. Ford  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ABOUT
3OUR  
PURPOSE  
IN ACTION
In 2021, Abbott employed a 
multifaceted approach to achieving 
our central purpose — helping 
people live their best possible lives 
through better health. DELIVERING  
CONNECTED CARE 
Our NeuroSphere Virtual Clinic keeps patients 
with chronic pain or movement disorders 
and their doctors connected with remote 
monitoring tools and in-app video chats — 
something TIME magazine recognized the 
value of when it named NeuroSphere as one of 
2021’s best inventions. 
READ MORE ON PAGE  26WEARABLE BIOSENSORS 
In January 2022, we announced that we’re 
developing Lingo — a new category of 
consumer biowearables designed to translate 
your body’s unique language. Introduced 
during the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) 
keynote speech, Lingo biowearables are being 
designed to track key biomarkers, like glucose, 
ketones, lactate and alcohol, and deliver 
actionable data and personalized insights 
straight to users’ phones.IMPACT THROUGH 
INNOVATION
ENHANCING PROCEDURE 
VISUALIZATION
We rolled out our Ultreon 1.0 software, 
bringing enhanced visualization to minimally 
invasive coronary procedures. 
READ MORE ON PAGE  19RAPID TEST FOR  
CONCUSSION 
Our new i-STAT Alinity TBI Plasma test helps 
to quickly assess traumatic brain injury (TBI) 
on a portable device and can potentially rule 
out the need for a head CT scan, saving people 
time and money. 
READ MORE ON PAGE  20
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
4
ABOUT
A HUB FOR  
MALNUTRITION RESEARCH 
We created the Abbott Center for Malnutrition 
Solutions — and have invested $45 million — to 
activate cross-function innovation and engage 
external experts in developing solutions. 
READ MORE ON PAGE  21
CLOSING GAPS IN CARE
We increased malaria screening by 68% by 
collaborating with the Rwandan Ministry of 
Health to help ensure second-generation health 
posts can sustainably address gaps in infectious 
disease care and testing. 
READ MORE ON PAGE  21
PROMOTING HEALTHY HABITS  
We have launched a three-year partnership 
with Real Madrid Football Club and its 
charitable foundation to deliver sports and 
nutrition education to children around 
the globe. 
READ MORE ON PAGE  19
FUTURE WELL  KIDS
When in-person learning was restricted, 
we delivered our chronic disease education 
program, Future Well Kids, virtually. Working 
with Discovery Education, we created a virtual 
field trip for children on the anatomy of the 
heart and heart health. 
READ MORE ON PAGE  23IMPACT THROUGH 
PARTNE RSHIPSSUPPLIER DIVERSITY 
We’re collaborating with the Local Initiatives 
Support Corporation (LISC) to deliver 
$37 .5 million in financial assistance and 
support to diverse small businesses. 
READ MORE ON PAGE  71
EQUITY IN CARE
In partnership with the American Diabetes 
Association, we are sponsoring a three-year 
program to reduce health inequities by 
removing barriers to tools and technology for 
diabetes management, regardless of income 
level or insurance status. 
READ MORE ON PAGE  18
INCLUSIVITY  IN TRIALS 
In 2021, we launched a platform to promote 
more inclusive clinical trials — and dedicated 
$5 million to scholarships for Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) 
and minority nursing associations. The goal 
is to produce more racially and ethnically 
diverse nurses and trialists who, if given the 
opportunity, will dramatically impact trials in 
the future. 
READ MORE ON PAGE  18
IMPACT THROUGH 
DIVERSITY, 
EQUITY AND 
INCLUSION
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
5
ABOUT
We remain committed to fighting 
COVID-19, creating products, supporting 
healthcare infrastructure and conducting 
research to protect people and society. IMPACT IN THE 
FIGHT AGAINST  
COVID-19
IN OUR WORKPLACES 
Protecting our people on-site remained a 
priority throughout 2021. In addition to 
distributing personal protective equipment 
(PPE) and maintaining rigorous cleaning 
processes, we established programs that help 
keep everyone healthy. These included providing 
at-home tests in the U.S. and establishing several 
on-site testing and vaccination facilities. And we 
conducted more than 2 million diagnostic tests 
for employees at more than 100 Abbott sites.FOR OUR CUSTOMERS 
The degree to which people rely on rapid 
diagnostic products has only become more 
apparent over the past two years. We know 
testing is the first line of defense against 
COVID-19 and have produced 12 COVID-19 
tests for both high-volume laboratories and 
doctors’ offices to date. We have also innovated 
quick, efficient distribution methods, including: 
• • Panbio COVID-19 Antigen Self-Test 
vending machines at the National 
University of Singapore. 
• • ID NOW rapid molecular testing sites in  
13 airports across India.
• • Partnering with United Airlines to offer 
at-home tests for travelers returning to the 
U.S. that meet Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention (CDC) guidelines.IN OUR COMMUNITIES 
We maintained focus on helping develop 
infrastructure to support vaccine rollouts, 
equitable testing access and COVID-19 
education. To date, we have invested more 
than $41 million across 66 countries. In India, 
where cases spiked in May 2021, Abbott and the 
Abbott Fund supported the efforts of our local 
citizenship partner, Self Employed Women’s 
Association (SEWA), to restore livelihoods for 
low-income communities, creating awareness 
on COVID-19 prevention, symptoms and 
treatment, and building temporary quarantine 
centers. Through our global nongovernmental 
organization (NGO) partners, CARE and 
Americares, we supported district and civil 
hospitals with essential equipment and other 
supplies, helping expand capacities of healthcare facilities. We also supported government 
organizations on frontline duty with our 
pharmaceuticals and nutrition products.
We continued to partner with Rush University 
Medical Center and the Alive Faith Network 
in Chicago, deploying testing and screening 
for over 2,400 people. In Minneapolis, we 
worked with the University of Minnesota 
Community-University Health Care Center 
to deliver services to 3,600 patients impacted 
by COVID-19. 
In Waukegan and North Chicago, Illinois, we 
helped prepare 200 children and their families 
for the fall semester through sponsorship of 
the Boys & Girls Club of Lake County’s in-
person summer program. We also provided 
grants to three schools in Waukegan to provide families with basic needs, including 
emergency support.
FOR THE FUTURE
Early virus detection is key to preventing — or 
quickly responding to — future pandemics. 
In March 2021, building on our decades-long 
history of viral surveillance, we launched the 
Abbott Pandemic Defense Coalition to identify 
and help contain emerging health threats.  
READ MORE ON PAGE  19
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
6
ABOUT
Abbott is a global healthcare company, dedicated to improving people’s health at all 
ages and stages of life. We believe good health is foundational to everything; we are 
committed to decentralizing and democratizing care so more people can live their 
fullest possible lives. 
For more than 130 years, we’ve been creating products and technologies that address 
some of the world’s most pressing health problems. Today, our portfolio includes:About Abbott
MEDICINES 
that help people in emerging 
markets get and stay healthy
NUTRITION PRODUCTS
that build and maintain health  
from infancy onward
MEDICAL DEVICES
that use the most advanced technologies to 
keep hearts and arteries healthy, treat chronic 
pain and movement disorders, and give people 
with diabetes more freedom and less pain
DIAGNOSTICS 
systems and tests that provide 
information to support better 
and more timely decisions for 
people and their doctors 2021 ABBOTT IN NUMBERS 
$43.1B
TOTAL 2021 REVENUE
25%
DIVIDEND INCREASE IN 2021
113,000
EMPLOYEES50
YEARS OF INCREASING DIVIDENDS
>$2.7B
INVESTMENT IN R&D130+
YEARS OF INNOVATION
90
MANUFACTURING SITES GLOBALLY  PRESENCE IN  
160+
COUNTRIES  OUR CORE VALUES
Our purpose as a business is clear: we help people live healthier, 
fuller lives through our life-changing technologies and products.
Four core values guide how we support this purpose every day.
PIONEERING
We see needs first and deliver game-changing solutions. We create new 
technologies and products to help people live fuller lives through better 
health, and we bring that same spirit of innovation to everything we do as 
a company.
ACHIEVING
We focus relentlessly on delivering for our stakeholders. Abbott is all 
about execution. Millions of people around the world depend on us in vital 
ways. We’re committed to honoring that trust.
CARING
We treat the people who depend on us as if they were our family. Dr. Abbott 
began our company to provide better care to his own patients. That spirit still 
guides everything we do.
ENDURING
We know that everything we do today should contribute to a stronger 
tomorrow. Because our work is so important to so many, it’s up to us to 
ensure that this company keeps thriving. That’s why we think and act for 
the long term. We intend to be here for the next 130 years, bringing all 
the benefits that Abbott creates to all the people who need them.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
7
ABOUT
Advancing Our Vision 
-1.5%
net sales price change~1B
COVID-19 tests 
distributed$35.9M
of products donated  PRODUCTS
16
sites in water-stressed 
areas launched 
efforts to implement 
water stewardship 
management practices530,200
pounds of packaging 
impacted through 
sustainable design  8
additional Zero 
Waste-to-Landfill 
sites, bringing our 
total to 46190M
kWh of low-carbon 
energy purchasedPLANET$20.4M
donated through  
the Abbott Fund$15M+
pledged for 9,500 
organizations through 
our Employee 
Giving Campaign2.2B
lives improved due 
to Abbott’s products 
and services
40%
of global management 
positions filled  
by women PEOPLEAWARD-WINNING  
PROGRESS 
Our relentless focus on delivering for our stakeholders has 
resulted in numerous honors and accolades.We have a clear vision for 2030: to improve the lives of one 
in every three people on the planet — 3 billion people a year. 
To achieve this, we’ll continue to build on the progress we 
made in 2021, propelling science, technology and healthcare 
into the future.Throughout the year, we have taken targeted action to 
evolve how we innovate our products, transform people’s 
lives — at Abbott and further afield — and protect the planet 
for future generations.
Fast Company’s 2021 World 
Changing Ideas 
• MUAC z-score tape 
• BinaxNOW 
• FreeStyle Libre 2 iCGMDow Jones  
Sustainability Index
•  One of our industry’s leaders 
for 17 consecutive yearsScience magazine  
Top 20 Employer
DiversityInc’s Top 50
•  #4 companyVault’s 50  
Best Internships
•  #1 internship for healthcare,  
data analytics and engineeringThe Edison Awards
•  Gold for BinaxNOW and 
FreeStyle Libre 2 iCGM
CES 2022  
Innovation Awards
•  Best of Innovation Health & 
Wellness for FreeStyle Libre 32021 Best Companies for 
Multicultural Women —
Seramount IndexBest Adoption- 
Friendly Workplace
•  #1 in Healthcare
JUST  Capital’s  
2022 JUST 100
•  #2 in Health Care 
Equipment & ServicesDrucker Institute  
Management Top 250
• #23 company overall 
• #6 of the “Social Top 10” 
• Top Ten for Sustainability Stars
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
8
ABOUT
We believe a sustainable future starts with 
health. It’s the foundation of everything 
we do — as individuals, families and 
communities. It helps societies thrive and 
fuels successful economies.
At Abbott, we help people get — and stay — healthy 
at every stage of life. Our 2030 Sustainability Plan 
outlines seven priority areas we are addressing 
to deliver effective healthcare solutions that are 
both accessible and affordable while embedding 
sustainability into everything we do. 
Explore our 2030 Sustainability Plan  
in more detail.Our 2030 Sustainability Plan 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ABOUT
9INNOVATE FOR ACCESS  
AND AFFORDABILITY OUR CLEAR FOCUS
PRIORITY 2030 GOAL PROGRESS AND NOTES
Make access and 
affordability core 
to new product 
innovation.Integrate access, affordability and data insights as design principles into our research and 
development (R&D) work and portfolio.•    Defined Innovate for Access and Affordability Design Principles to apply at every stage of design and commercialization cycle. For more 
information, see page 16.
•    Reached 2.2 billion* people through our products and services.
•    Created the first rapid handheld traumatic brain injury blood test, which can reduce the need for expensive CT scans. 
•    Enabled remote care via the NeuroSphere Virtual Clinic, increasing access and reducing costs.
Transform care for 
chronic disease, 
malnutrition and 
infectious diseases.Support global efforts to address noncommunicable diseases, including diabetes and 
cardiovascular disease.
– Innovate to transform the standard of care for diabetes and support efforts to bend the 
diabetes curve through innovative technology, prevention and education, early diagnosis, 
treatment and nutrition. 
– Deliver breakthrough technologies, improve clinical outcomes and impact the lives of 
people with or at risk of cardiovascular disease.•    Advanced technologies to improve diabetes and cardiovascular disease care, including: 
– Launched FreeStyle Libre 3, the world’s smallest, most accurate continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) sensor 
– Connected FreeStyle Libre products to partners’ delivery systems and coaching platforms to enhance personalized diabetes management 
– Launched Ultreon 1.0 to enhance coronary artery procedures, receiving honoree CES 2022 Innovation Awards recognition 
•    Additionally, continued to progress initiatives, including:
– Partnered with the American Diabetes Association to sponsor a pilot in Columbus, Ohio, to support equitable diabetes-care access 
– Partnered with Rush University Medical Center and the Alive Faith Network in the U.S. to provide diabetes, heart disease and mental 
health support
– Ongoing partnership with the Tanzanian government to enhance emergency medicine and the healthcare system, serving more than 
1 million patients to date
– Abbott Fund and CARE partnered on a $1 million investment to tackle noncommunicable diseases in the Philippines 
•    Established the Abbott Center for Malnutrition Solutions, pledging a $45 million annual investment to enhance identification, treatment 
and prevention.
Deliver scalable, integrated solutions to help reduce preventable deaths and infectious 
diseases (malaria, hepatitis B/C, HIV, COVID-19 and others) with diagnostics, treatment 
and education programs, especially in high-prevalence areas.•     Expanded Abbott Pandemic Defense Coalition to better anticipate future pandemic threats. 
•    Developed a hepatitis B virus biomarker program to inform enhanced treatments.We’re intentionally designing access and affordability into many of our life-changing 
technologies and products, and breaking down barriers that prevent people from 
getting the care they need.
*  Total number of lives improved was adjusted for indirect overlap between businesses using a binomial probability model, and only 
adjusted for direct overlap within a business where data is currently available to support the adjustment.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
10
ABOUT
SUSTAINABILITY IN 
EVERYTHING WE DOOUR CLEAR FOCUS
PRIORITY 2030 GOAL PROGRESS AND NOTES
Advance health 
equity through 
partnership.Expand affordable access to healthcare for underserved, diverse and at-risk communities, 
including women and children, by delivering innovative, decentralized models of care that 
advance prevention and early diagnosis, improve nutrition, provide quality treatment and 
care, and lower total costs.•    Provided decentralized healthcare services to over 705,000 people globally through social investing, shared value and Abbott 
Fund programs. 
Partner with stakeholders to improve health outcomes by advancing standards and building 
access to affordable, integrated solutions.•    Partnered with the Rwandan Ministry of Health and the Society for Family Health Rwanda to bring healthcare to approximately 260,000 
people through December 2021. Additionally, launched an antenatal care panel and started development of panels for fever and malnutrition.
•    Partnership with the Real Madrid Football Club and the Real Madrid Foundation that encompasses education, sports and social welfare 
activities for under-resourced children.
•    Dedicated $5 million to scholarships for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and minority nursing associations, with the 
goal of producing more racially and ethnically diverse clinical trials.
Responsibly connect 
data, technology 
and care.Be a trusted healthcare leader in secure and responsible data collection, use, management 
and privacy, in order to protect our patients and customers, empower them to make 
better, more complete decisions about their health and drive innovation through insights 
and analytics.•    Published an enhanced formal commitment to privacy and protecting sensitive data. 
•    Established a coordinated vulnerability disclosure program to enhance reporting of product and system vulnerabilities.
•    Two maturity assessments conducted on privacy and product security.
•    Cybersecurity control framework developed.
•    Founding member of the University of Minnesota Center for Medical Device Cybersecurity.
Create a resilient, 
diverse and 
responsible 
supply chain.Certify that 80% of newly contracted direct material spends are linked to contracts that 
incorporate social responsibility requirements.•    Established language for our social responsibility requirements that’s being incorporated into direct material spend contracts.
Ensure ethical sourcing from all suppliers with high-risk sustainability factors through 
100% auditing.•    Identified a representative sample of suppliers with potential high-risk sustainability factors to pilot audit programming.
•    100% of suppliers assessed for sustainability risk.
Ensure an inclusive environment by increasing spending with diverse and small businesses 
50% by 2030, and Black- and women-owned businesses by 150% by 2025, from a 
2020 baseline.•    48.6% spend increase with small businesses.*
•    Spend with Black- and women-owned businesses** grew by 31% and 15% respectively (vs. 2020).
•    Launched initiative with the Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) to deliver $37.5 million in financial assistance to diverse  
small businesses. While our focus on innovation, access and affordability is central to our plan, we will also 
take targeted action in key areas, including building the workforce of tomorrow, responsibly 
applying data to advance care, building a more resilient, diverse and responsible supply chain, 
and protecting health by safeguarding the environment. Beyond these target areas, we will continue to build a more sustainable business through all 
the actions we take, every day — from ensuring product quality and safety, to acting ethically 
and supporting human rights, to advancing transparency and engaging our many stakeholders 
around the world.
* Includes data from U.S. only.  
** Includes data from  U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico suppliers.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
11
ABOUT
PRIORITY 2030 GOAL PROGRESS AND NOTES
Build the diverse, 
innovative workforce 
of tomorrow.Provide 1 million development and job opportunities for current and future employees. •    Achieved 163,315 development and job opportunities for current and future employees. 
Create opportunities in Abbott’s science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) 
programs and internships for more than 100,000 young people, including 50% from 
underrepresented groups.•    Created 23,950 STEM opportunities for young people. 
Continue to drive diversity and inclusion strategies that create a meaningful employee 
experience and advance Abbott’s culture to:
– Achieve gender balance across our global management team with at least 
45% female representation
– Achieve gender balance in STEM roles with at least 45% female representation
– Ensure one-third of our leadership roles are held by people from underrepresented 
groups by 2025 
– Continue to drive 100% leadership accountability by tying executive compensation to 
diversity outcomes •    We continued to work toward building a more inclusive culture:
– 40% of global management positions filled by women 
– 44.6% female representation in STEM roles 
– 33% of leadership roles held by people from underrepresented groups
•    97% of people managers completed Leading With Impact, a training program to help managers cultivate stronger people skills and build more 
inclusive teams.
•    In 2021, all of our U.S. employees received unconscious bias training. We also published our first ever Diversity, Equity and Inclusion report 
which provides goals, our progress against them and disclosure of EEO-1 data.
•    We enhanced our proxy disclosure, highlighting a strong link between executive compensation and sustainability. 
Anticipate Abbott’s future workforce needs and achieve talent readiness. •    We have identified more than 50 future skills necessary for the jobs of tomorrow; we’re now prioritizing developing them in existing and 
future employees.
Maintain or improve rates of internal succession for leadership roles. •   86% of openings for leadership roles filled by internal candidates.
Fill 50% of targeted new jobs with internal talent by upskilling, cross-skilling and creating 
learning opportunities.•    45% of targeted new jobs filled internally.
Continue to provide industry-leading programs that help people achieve their personal 
health and well-being.•    Expanded Employee Assistance Program to four new countries, increasing our total to 50.
•    Offered expanded mental health support to employees, including global webinars on managing stress and anxiety and meditation sessions, 
resources to help with child care and family support, and counseling services.
Support financial security of employees by helping those with college debt save for 
retirement, expanding Abbott’s Freedom 2 Save program by providing $10 million in 
savings contributions to participants’ retirement accounts.•    $3.5 million in Freedom 2 Save employer contributions to participant retirement accounts since the inception of the program.continuedSUSTAINABILITY IN 
EVERYTHING WE DOOUR CLEAR FOCUS
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
12
ABOUT
PRIORITY 2030 GOAL PROGRESS AND NOTES
Protect a healthy 
environment.Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 30% from 2018 baseline by the end of 
2030, consistent with the objectives of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).•    5% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions (vs. 2018).
•    Committed to a science-based target for Scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon emission reductions with the SBTi.
Work with our key carbon-intensive suppliers to implement sustainable programs to reduce 
our Scope 3 carbon emissions.1 
Achieve water stewardship certification at all high water-impact manufacturing sites in 
water-stressed areas.•    Laid groundwork for future water stewardship certification and management practice accreditation, including establishing Alliance for Water 
Stewardship membership and identifying 25 Abbott sites as operating in water-stressed areas. 
•    Developed criteria and process to identify suppliers with potential to expose Abbott to water risks:
– 26 key suppliers in high water-stressed areas engaged through our Supplier Sustainability Survey
– Identified five key suppliers to pilot future water risk programImplement accredited water stewardship management practices in more than 75% of all 
manufacturing sites operating in water-stressed areas.
Work with 50 key suppliers in high water-stressed areas to reduce water quality and 
quantity risks to Abbott and the community.
Address 50 million pounds of packaging through high-impact sustainable design 
programs that:
– Employ circularity principles through smart design and material selection
– Eliminate and reduce materials 
– Improve the energy efficiency of Abbott’s products
– Optimize packaging, pallet and truckload efficiency•    Created Sustainable Packaging Guiding Principles.
•    Three initiatives funded that will impact 8 million pounds of packaging materials, including implementing new manufacturing technologies, 
adopting new packaging for a key product and redesigning bottle caps that use less material and increase recyclability. 
Reduce waste impacts using a circular-economy approach, to achieve and maintain at least 
a 90% diversion rate.•    88.5% waste diversion rate.
•    First group of key suppliers engaged to determine waste management maturity and opportunities to partner on waste diversion.
Engage with key suppliers to reduce the environmental impact of materials sent to 
Abbott that become waste in our operations and develop and track supplier waste 
diversion initiatives.
1 Quantitative Scope 3 target is forthcoming.continuedcontinuedSUSTAINABILITY IN 
EVERYTHING WE DOOUR CLEAR FOCUS
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
13
ABOUT
Sustainability in Everything 
We Do
Sustainability is embedded in Abbott’s 
DNA, and our 2030 Plan codifies the 
commitments we’ve made for the 
future. Our governance structure 
puts sustainability at the heart of 
our business and makes it everyone’s 
shared responsibility.
OUR PRINCIPLES OF 
SUSTAINABILITY 
As a healthcare business, we continuously 
work to identify ways in which we can help 
people, society and the planet through better 
health. We want to take this further, actively 
expanding the ways we benefit people and the 
planet. Four principles inform our approach: 
• • Apply our unique business strengths 
to identify and invest in life-changing 
innovations, evolving to meet emerging 
needs and finding measurable ways to 
address challenges
• • Identify and increase our understanding of 
our top material issues and the growing needs 
of the people we serve• • Embed sustainability throughout the 
business through robust governance 
• • Partner with stakeholders for greater impact 
ESG-LINKED COMPENSATION
Our strategy was driven from the beginning 
by Abbott’s senior management team, with 
ongoing oversight from our Board of Directors 
and its committees. Overall responsibility for 
sustainability sits with management. 
To help ensure ESG considerations are 
fully embedded, we have tied executive 
compensation to sustainability efforts, 
including driving quality, environmental, 
health and safety performance, and promoting 
diversity and inclusion. Our leadership 
covenant specifically states that corporate 
officers are accountable for the achievement 
of Abbott’s 2030 Sustainability Plan goals. 
To learn more, visit the Compensation Link 
To Sustainability section of our 2022 Proxy 
Statement. 
Read more about our Board of Directors 
on page 75 and see details of executive 
compensation in our 2022 Proxy Statement.SUSTAINABILITY OVERSIGHT 
Global Citizenship 
Advisory Council
Brings together 
external experts who 
provide guidance on 
strategic sustainability 
issues, including risks 
and opportunities
Global Operations 
Council
Oversees strategy 
execution for all 
operations, using internal 
assessments, risk profiles 
and industry best practice 
to improve performance
Sustainability Goal 
Leads and Operations 
Functions
Responsible for 
managing the execution 
and enterprise-wide 
operationalization of 
our 2030 Sustainability 
Plan to achieve goals 
and targets 
Global  
Sustainability Team 
Leads implementation 
of our strategy across 
Abbott’s global operations 
and oversees reporting of 
environmental, social and 
governance performance
ESG Disclosures 
Committee
Responsible for 
monitoring regulatory, 
legal and financial 
reporting requirements 
and advises on company 
approach and readiness
Members: 
• Margaret Flaherty, 
Senior Advisor, FSG, 
and Professor, Business 
School Lausanne
• David Logan, Co-
Founding Director, 
Corporate Citizenship
• Jane Nelson, Senior 
Fellow and Director, 
CSR Initiatives, Harvard 
Kennedy School
• David Vidal, 
Emeritus Fellow, The 
Conference BoardMembers: 
• Chair: Senior Vice 
President, Quality 
Assurance, Regulatory 
and Engineering 
Services 
• 3 corporate officers 
• 33 divisional vice 
presidents 
• 2 senior directorsRepresentatives from:
• Global Environment, 
Health and Safety
• Ethics and Compliance
• Quality and  
Regulatory Affairs
• Information Technology 
and Cybersecurity
• Human Resources
• Supply Chain
• Legal 
• Finance 
• Corporate Governance 
• Research and 
Development 
• Investor Relations 
• Public Affairs 
• Government Affairs 
• Corporate Purchasing 
• Commercial Operations
• Affiliate operations in 
key markets Reports to: 
Vice President, Global 
Marketing and External 
Affairs, who reports to our 
Chairman and CEO Representatives from:
• Global Environment,  
Health and Safety
• Ethics and Compliance
• Quality and 
Regulatory Affairs
• Information Technology 
and Cybersecurity
• Human Resources
• Supply Chain
• Legal
• Finance
• Corporate Governance
• Research and 
Development
• Investor Relations
• Public Affairs
• Government Affairs
• Enterprise Risk 
Management
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT  
Oversees all sustainability activities 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ABOUT
14INNOVATE FOR  
ACCESS  AND  
AFFORDABILITY
The world needs new approaches to health — “business as 
usual” won’t get it done, and cutting-edge innovations alone 
won’t be enough. We believe the best healthcare solutions are 
the ones that help the most people. That’s why we’re designing 
new products and reimagining existing ones to maximize  
access to life-changing technologies and services, increase  
our positive impact on the world and sustain Abbott for  
years to come. 
In early 2022, Abbott became the first 
healthcare company to deliver a keynote 
address at the Consumer Electronics 
Show (CES). Through it, we outlined 
our vision for the future of healthcare. During the show, Abbott’s BinaxNOW  
COVID-19 Self Test was just one of five 
of our products recognized with a Best 
of Innovation award.INITIATIVE SPOTLIGHT
DEMOCRATIZE  
Make health tech more 
accessible, personal and 
convenient to more peopleDECENTRALIZE  
Deliver care where and 
when it’s needed beyond 
the hospital or clinicDIGITIZE  
Connect people with timely, 
accurate and actionable 
health information
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT
 ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
15Elango Nathan, Manager, Marketing, Digital Health.Our Approach to Access 
and Affordability 
We work to deliver more affordable, more accessible solutions 
that effectively address pressing health needs. We are partnering 
strategically to break down barriers to care and innovating to help 
people live fuller lives.
Became anchor sponsor of the 
Health Equity Now  platform to 
support Americans with diabetes
Launched Ultreon 1.0   
to help improve outcomes for 
coronary artery procedures
Provided decentralized 
healthcare services to over 
705,000  
PEOPLE GLOBALLY
 
 Developed a hepatitis B virus 
biomarker program  to inform 
enhanced treatments
2.2B  
LIVES IMPROVED  
from Abbott’s products 
and services 
Launched NeuroSphere Virtual 
Clinic , increasing access to care 
by letting doctors remotely assess 
symptoms and adjust therapies 
for patients with chronic pain or 
movement disorders
For specific information on our 2030 goals around Access and Affordability, see page 10.DESIGN FOR 
ACCESS
Identify and overcome 
barriers to access and 
adoption, prioritizing 
inclusive design as well as 
manufacturing, distribution 
and technology strategies 
to reduce costs across the 
value chainDESIGN FOR 
BROADER REACH 
AND EQUITY
Build an innovation 
portfolio that reaches 
more people, including 
new geographies and 
communities with limited 
access to careWe have outlined three Design Principles to embed innovating access and 
affordability in how we develop and bring technologies and products to 
the people who need them:
DESIGN TO OPTIMIZE 
REACH AND VALUE
Make intentional decisions 
throughout the design 
process to optimize four 
factors: people reached, 
consumer benefit, business 
and societal value 
OUR 2030
GOALS PROGRESS
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT
16
ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
in health technology and areas where cross-
business collaboration could support novel 
product designs. This group is responsible 
for driving our product design principles into 
each Abbott business. It also puts forward 
nominations for Abbott’s Volwiler Society, 
an organization we established in 1985 to 
recognize, support and celebrate our most 
distinguished scientists and engineers for 
creating breakthrough technologies that 
change millions of lives around the world. 
Nominees must meet rigorous criteria  
and demonstrate a history of consistent 
scientific and technical contributions.  
Having a program like this in place is 
testament to the importance Abbott places 
on innovation.
Today, the Volwiler Society has 125 members, 
several of whom are also members of 
the American Institute for Medical and 
Biological Engineering (AIMBE) — a 
nonprofit organization representing the most 
accomplished individuals in these fields. 
The AIMBE brings together over 1,500 people 
from academia, industry, government and 
scientific societies to create an influential 
network of experts committed to advancing 
medical and biological engineering for the 
good of society.Our Management Approach
Innovation is a key growth driver for 
Abbott. We manage innovation across the 
breadth of our value chain to help ensure 
maximum access to products and services 
that can help people live fuller, healthier lives. 
We’ve embedded considerations of access 
and affordability into our product design, 
development, manufacturing processes and 
commercialization. We’re leveraging our 
technologies to make real progress against 
chronic disease, malnutrition and infectious 
diseases. And we’re harnessing our global 
presence, developing strategic partnerships, 
and investing in community projects and 
sustainable infrastructure to help ensure 
equitable access to quality healthcare. 
The Scientific Governing Board
The responsibility for driving life-changing 
health innovations is within the purview  
of Abbott’s Scientific Governing Board.  
The board’s 16 members include the heads of 
research and development (R&D) from all of 
Abbott’s businesses. Together they represent 
decades of experience in health technology 
and science industries. 
The Scientific Governing Board meets monthly 
to discuss Abbott’s progress on innovating to 
advance access and affordability, developments Scott Muerhoff, a Distinguished Research Fellow in 
Abbott’s Volwiler Society, drove development of the 
biologics for Abbott’s COVID-19 serology portfolio, 
contributing to four important assays, including the 
BinaxNOW rapid antigen test.How We Guide Our Efforts
We want our products and technologies to 
reach as many people who need them as 
possible. We track our progress against six 
areas to help ensure we have our greatest 
possible impact:
• • Innovate for access and affordability
• • People served
• • Transforming standards of care
• • Health outcomes
• • Cost savings
• • Infrastructure
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT
 ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
17Innovating for Impact
In 2021, we launched “Give Blood. Get Back,” 
a campaign that reached more than 50 million 
people in the U.S. As part of this program, 
we engaged 15 influencers on TikTok and 
Instagram, and included a licensed song 
and TikTok dance challenge, achieving 
unprecedented positive response and Gen Z/
Millennial engagement. Less than 48 hours 
after launch, more than 2,000 people accessed 
the website to find a location to donate with a 
40% click-through rate.
Inclusive Clinical Trial Representation 
We believe data collected in clinical trials should 
be representative of the people our products 
are intended to serve. But today, while people 
of diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds 
make up nearly 40% of the U.S. population, and 
are disproportionately impacted by chronic 
conditions such as diabetes and cardiovascular 
disease, they are still heavily underrepresented 
in the clinical trials process. To help address 
the disparities that exist in clinical trials, 
we’re developing an outreach plan to build 
trust in areas where trial participants haven’t 
traditionally been included. We want to work 
with others who recognize the need to overcome 
four substantial barriers to diverse participation 
in clinical trials:By 2030, we plan to improve the lives 
of one in every three people a year, 
providing increasingly accessible 
solutions and delivering more to under-
resourced areas. 
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
In 2021, Abbott products made a difference in 
the lives of more than 2.2 billion people, and 
the Abbott Fund worked with 62 partners in 
245 sites to serve nearly 633,000 people.2
Partnering to Boost Participation
Globally, the number of young people donating 
blood is on the decline. To address this trend, in 
2015, we launched BE THE 1 — the first global 
recruitment movement focusing on expanding 
the pool of young donors. Since then, more than 
100 blood and plasma centers have embraced 
the campaign and donations have increased as 
much as 37% in certain countries. 
2 Figure is inclusive of all people served by the Abbott Fund, covering 
health access, disaster relief and Future Well Kids.
3 https://www.diabetes.org/healthequitynow• • Lack of access to facilities, trials and/or 
resources in the area
• • Lack of understanding on the benefits to 
self or community through participation
• • Lack of trust in institutions or individuals 
due to prior bad experiences
• • Lack of clarity across languages
Part of our outreach includes forming an 
advisory board, with the goal of determining 
how best to increase participation across gender 
and ethnic lines. Some of the ways we plan to 
overcome these barriers and progress in this 
area include:
• • Recruiting, training, developing and 
coaching women and ethnically diverse 
doctors who reflect their communities and 
are interested in clinical trials
• • Committing $5 million to fund nearly 300 
scholarships through new partnerships 
with medical schools at Historically Black 
Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and 
minority nursing associations, with the goal 
of producing more racially and ethnically 
diverse nurses and trialists who, if given the 
opportunity, will dramatically impact trials 
in the future
INCREASING ACCESS TO  
DIABETES CARE 
The Health Equity Bill of Rights — 
established by the American Diabetes 
Association — posits 10 basic rights for 
people with diabetes and prediabetes. 
We have sponsored a pilot initiative 
designed by the association to address 
right #9:
The right to the latest medical advances
Today, Black Americans are 60%3 more 
likely to be diagnosed with diabetes, yet 
much less likely to have their condition 
well managed. The goal of our three-
year, $5 million effort is to reduce health 
inequities by removing barriers to tools 
and technology for diabetes management, 
regardless of income level or insurance 
status. The pilot seeks to better understand 
and address the healthcare disparities for 
Black people living with diabetes. Focusing 
initial efforts in Columbus, Ohio, we will 
help by sponsoring campaigns to enhance 
awareness, access to and adoption of these 
tools. In collaboration with the National 
Center for Urban Solutions (NCUS), 
150 Black residents living with diabetes 
will have access to health education, 
physical training, nutritional support and 
Abbott’s FreeStyle Libre flash glucose 
monitoring technology.• • Expanding clinical trials into new 
sites in more communities to reach 
underrepresented patients
• • Connecting with diverse participants and 
cultivating trust and education through the 
use of culturally appropriate materials
By expanding the reach of studies to include 
diverse groups, we can achieve a clearer 
image of our products’ impacts in real-world 
situations. Armed with this information, we can 
continue to develop solutions that help even 
more people. 
When we initiated our LIFE-BTK study  
on a treatment for people with advanced 
peripheral artery disease (PAD), we 
established a diverse team of investigators 
and performed trials across several locations 
to reach underrepresented demographics. 
Partnerships with institutes like the Women 
as One physician organization helped further 
diversify the process. Similarly, our Beyond  
Intervention research gathered insights from 
over 1,800 people across 13 countries to create 
a more complete picture of how technology 
can improve the care of patients with 
vascular disease. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT
 ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
18Innovating to Improve Health Outcomes
Partnering for Better Outcomes 
In addition to ensuring our solutions deliver 
the best care possible, we work with others 
to magnify and enhance the outcomes of our 
efforts. For example, we have partnered with 
the Tanzanian government for more than 
20 years to drive sustainable improvements 
to the country’s healthcare system, delivering 
emergency care to more than 1 million patients 
to date.OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
Proactively Addressing Pandemic Threats 
In 2020, building on our decades-long 
experience in viral surveillance, we established 
the Abbott Pandemic Defense Coalition to help 
identify new pathogens, analyze potential risk 
levels, develop and deploy diagnostic testing 
and assess public health impacts. Throughout 
2021, we expanded the coalition, leveraging 
the expertise of global centers of excellence 
in laboratory testing, genetic sequencing 
and public health research to respond to the 
emergence of the COVID-19 Omicron variant. 
Fourteen cross-continent sites, including 
Abbott, contributed to this research. 
We partnered with The Task Force for Global 
Health on a first-of-its-kind field program to 
train the next generation of epidemiologists. 
Additionally, a virology fellowship with the 
Global Virus Network will help develop  
future virologists. Improving Outcomes With Ultreon 
We aim to improve outcomes for 1 million 
patients annually using our Ultreon software to 
optimize percutaneous coronary intervention 
(PCI)4 by 2030. In 2021, we began the rollout 
of Ultreon 1.0 software, which merges imaging 
technology with artificial intelligence to 
enhance visualization of PCI procedures. 
The software can automatically detect 
blockage severity and measure blood vessel 
characteristics, supporting more precise 
decisions. The game-changing capabilities 
of this software resulted in Ultreon 1.0 
receiving honoree recognition at the CES 2022 
Innovation Awards. 
Ultreon 1.0 represents the first of several 
such platforms. The data we’re collecting 
from it are already informing development of 
Ultreon 2.0 — a system that will be accessible 
to smaller centers, improving outcomes for a 
growing number of patients. We are continuously exploring how we 
can help people live longer and better, 
finding measurable ways to address social 
challenges and improve health outcomes 
with scientific and technical expertise. 
4 PCI is a minimally invasive procedure used to open coronary arteries 
and restore blood flow. 
SCORING BIG FOR KIDS’ HEALTH
In 2021, we entered into a three-year agreement to be the Health Sciences and 
Nutrition Partner for Real Madrid Football Club. We have also signed on as Global 
Partner of the Real Madrid Foundation — an organization founded by the club to 
promote the value of sport to children globally. 
The partnership will deliver education, sports and social welfare activities to support 
children in under-resourced communities in 80 countries. It will also involve working 
with Real Madrid Foundation social sports schools in 12 countries to provide malnutrition 
screening, education and nutrition support. Finally, through the agreement,  
we will address nutrition needs through Real Madrid Foundation clinics, which  
are hosted in 42 countries.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT
 ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
19Pricing Discipline to Improve Access
Healthcare products are a valuable 
societal investment — they enable 
people and societies to flourish. We are 
committed to finding innovative ways to 
improve efficiency and consumer access 
to our life-changing products. 
Affordable Diagnostics 
Our diagnostics business is always on 
the lookout for ways to improve costs by 
increasing efficiency in our manufacturing, 
supply chain and product support areas. Over 
the past four years, we have realized year-over-
year improvements in cost of goods for more 
than 80% of products by volume. Cost Savings Fund Innovation
Throughout 2021, our sites took several steps 
to improve operational efficiency, resulting in 
cost savings that help drive our investment in 
innovation. For example:
• • In Africa, we launched malaria diagnostic 
tests with smaller packaging dimensions, 
reducing required distribution trips and 
lowering logistics costs by around 28% for 
customers. We also increased accessibility of 
these products and helped ensure continuity 
of supply by combining the supply 
capabilities of our manufacturing facility in 
China with those of our site in Korea. 
• • Additionally, we completed a regulatory 
submission for small-pack HIV diagnostic 
tests. The suggested reduction in kit 
box dimensions will translate into 
approximately 50% logistics cost savings 
for customers as a result of improved 
shipping efficiency. • • To enable affordability for the governments 
and agencies purchasing our Panbio 
COVID-19 Antigen Self-Test, we have 
improved materials and labor efficiency 
and have achieved a 32% decrease in 
manufacturing costs.
Additionally, the launch of a new diagnostic 
product for traumatic brain injury (TBI) — 
the i-STAT Alinity TBI Plasma — will enable 
concussion diagnoses through blood tests. 
This will reduce the need for expensive 
CT scans, bringing down overall healthcare 
costs following head injuries. VALUE EMBEDDED BY DESIGN 
One of Abbott’s Core Design Principles is 
to optimize the products we create across 
four factors: people reached, consumer 
benefit, business and societal value. Doing so 
starts with understanding the needs of our 
customers — from patients and healthcare 
professionals to policymakers and those who 
fund developments. 
An important example of this principle in action 
can be found in the Early Value Assessment 
(EVA) process. Through this process, we help 
ensure the expectations of key stakeholders 
are upheld even as we target increased access 
and affordability.
Through the EVA, we proactively identify 
steps that will drive economic and clinical value 
for future products. Recommendations are 
then captured during design and development 
processes; in turn, positively impacting future 
reimbursement, coverage and access for patients.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT
 ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
20DIAGNOSTIC PANELS FOR 
ENHANCED TREATMENT
A diagnostic panel is a predetermined 
group of medical tests used in the diagnosis 
and treatment of disease. Panels support 
development of more effective treatments.  
In 2021, we launched, or set the groundwork  
for, three targeted panels. 
• •  Antenatal Care (ANC) Panel: established  
to improve lives and reduce mortality for  
the 20 million mothers and children in high-
burden countries through regular screening 
and infection hotspot maps. It supports the 
World Health Organization’s mission to 
eliminate mother-to-child transmission of 
HIV, HBV and syphilis by 2030.
• •  Malnutrition Panel: research is underway to 
improve well-being for children and pregnant 
women, using biomarkers to identify 
micronutrient deficiencies via clinical and  
at-home tests. Development of this panel  
will continue into 2022 and beyond.
• • Fever Panel: development has started to 
understand how biomarkers can help clinicians 
better identify root causes of fever, enabling 
proper treatment and care. This will be 
particularly important in pregnant women 
and young children. It will also aid infection 
identification in patients with fever-like and 
other “generic” symptoms.and acute respiratory infections. These health 
posts are also financially stable and will be able 
to sustainably provide care for local residents. 
During their second year of operation, these 
posts generated an economic profit of 29%. 
The study also demonstrated that access to 
these health posts addressed a high demand 
for these services in rural Rwanda. As a means 
to improving the health of Rwanda’s rural 
population, these facilities are both improving 
equity within Rwanda and providing a 
roadmap for doing the same globally.
Transforming Virus Research  
with Biomarkers 
We have launched a hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
biomarker program to expand understanding 
of, and treatment for, patients with chronic 
HBV . Using HBV RNA and surface antigen 
tests, we are conducting studies to inform 
more effective treatments. While research is 
ongoing, evidence for the value of biomarkers 
in moderating patient care has already been 
shared in 14 publications. Infrastructure and Transforming 
Standards of Care 
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
In 2021, we extended support to 32 
healthcare centers, including training 2,851 
healthcare workers on decentralized services. 
We provided over 705,000 people with 
decentralized services globally. 
The Abbott Center for  
Malnutrition Solutions 
The Abbott Center for Malnutrition 
Solutions — our cross-functional innovation 
hub — is working to improve identification, 
treatment and prevention of malnutrition. 
External partnerships, research, innovation 
and financial support also contribute to 
developing accessible, sustainable and locally 
relevant options for those most in need. Addressing Gaps in Care 
In 2019, we began working with the Rwandan 
Ministry of Health and the Society for Family 
Health Rwanda to build an independent, 
decentralized and financially stable health 
network. Together, we launched second-
generation health posts to address gaps 
in primary care and testing for HIV and 
other infectious diseases, including malaria. 
Through December 2021, these posts have 
treated approximately 260,000 people.
In certain areas, where the closest existing 
facilities were up to three hours away, health 
posts have increased access to care eightfold 
and cut travel times to around 17 minutes. 
Since inception, malaria screenings have risen 
by 68%, with 21,000 residents treated for 
positive cases.
A recent study determined that most of the 
care provided during visits to these posts 
would not have occurred without them. The 
health post’s main benefit was a substantial 
increase in the use of curative primary care for 
conditions such as malaria, intestinal parasites We are building infrastructure, offering 
training and providing resources to 
help decentralize care and transform 
healthcare standards in communities 
around the world. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT
 ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
21DRIVING DIABETES CARE IN 
UNDERINVESTED COMMUNITIES 
In 2019, the Abbott Fund launched our  
Future Well Communities program in Stockton, 
California, to address health disparities by 
removing barriers that prevent people with 
diabetes from living a healthy life. Working in 
close partnership with community groups and 
leading institutions, our goal is to improve the 
health of 10,000 people in neighborhoods facing 
the greatest impacts of disparities and diabetes. 
We are taking a patient-centered approach, 
meeting people where they are to reduce the 
impact of diabetes in these communities.
One of the ways we are accomplishing this is 
through our Healthy Food Rx pilot initiative. 
In a community where 57% of people are living 
with diabetes or prediabetes, we are partnering 
locally to demonstrate improved clinical and 
behavioral outcomes with a twice-monthly 
home delivery of healthy meals for six months. 
Patients can access on-demand cooking classes 
and other nutritional resources to help meet 
their specific dietary needs.
Read more about 2021 Future Well Communities 
efforts online. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT
 ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
22Abbott’s Community Impact 
A MODEL FOR NCD 
PREVENTION
In 2019, Abbott and CARE announced a 
three-year, $1 million partnership to address 
NCDs among populations internally displaced 
by armed conflict in Marawi, Philippines. 
Among the first of its kind, the program is 
creating a scalable and replicable model for 
the prevention and care of chronic diseases 
in humanitarian crisis settings. This includes 
increasing NCD screening, providing health 
education, monitoring and referral services, 
and building capacity and awareness on 
prevention and control. Abbott has also been 
donating rapid-testing technology, diabetes 
monitors and test strips.
The results are encouraging. Following 
targeted interventions, patients with 
controlled blood sugar levels rose to 59.1%, up 
from 50.8% at baseline, and more than 65% of 
patients improved their fasting glucose level, 
which is important to reducing overall risks of 
related health complications.NATURAL DISASTER RELIEF 
For 16 years, we have been partnering with 
Feeding America and Direct Relief to prepare 
communities for hurricane season. Critically 
needed supplies, including rehydration 
solutions and nutrition products, are 
distributed to food banks and health clinics 
across high-risk areas in the U.S. and Puerto 
Rico. In 2021, these programs supported more 
than 12,000 people. Last year, we broadened 
these efforts, implementing a disaster 
resilience strategy to help prevent and mitigate 
negative impacts on communities in New 
Orleans, Dallas, Orlando and Puerto Rico. 
We are committed to rapid response following 
natural disasters and other emergencies. In 
2021, Abbott and the Abbott Fund donated 
approximately $2 million in cash and product 
to address immediate needs and long-term 
recovery efforts. This included providing relief 
following flooding in China, Germany, Turkey 
and the U.S.; earthquakes in Croatia and Haiti; 
wildfires in Turkey; hurricanes in the U.S.; and 
support for Afghan refugees in the U.S.When communities thrive, we all thrive. 
Abbott has a long-standing history of 
contributing expertise, product, cash and 
time to help support our communities. 
TACKLING NON-
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
Our Future Well initiatives help drive progress 
against noncommunicable diseases (NCDs). In 
Stockton, California, Future Well Communities 
is advancing health equity and removing the 
barriers that prevent people with diabetes from 
living healthy lives. Learn more on page 22 . 
Our school-based Future Well Kids program 
promotes lifelong healthy habits from an early 
age. In 2021, we initiated activities in Colombia 
and the UK, expanding the program’s reach 
to five countries in total. We delivered lessons 
virtually to students in the U.S., Mexico and 
Ireland, reaching over 600 students during 
the 2020–2021 school year. A refreshed 
Future Well Kids website makes it easier for 
educators and families to integrate standards-
aligned resources on the human body, physical 
activity, nutrition and healthy lifestyle into the 
classroom or home.
Read more about Future Well Kids on page 35 . 
VIRTUALLY EXPLORING HEART HEALTH WITH  
FUTURE WELL  KIDS 
When in-person learning was restricted, we worked with Discovery 
Education to develop a virtual field trip for children aged 10–13 to 
learn about the importance of cardiovascular health. 
Through  Your Heart, students explore the heart and how hydration, 
eating right and exercising regularly keeps this vital organ healthy. Our 
science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) interns, in-house 
experts and three-time Olympian Lolo Jones brought lessons to life 
through engaging videos and demonstrations, all available online and 
on demand. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT
23
ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
Managing diabetes can be overwhelming. We’re collaborating 
on smarter systems that simplify diabetes care, connecting 
FreeStyle Libre products with delivery systems and a coaching 
platform to offer personalized experiences that help people 
understand and manage their own health in real time. RESPONSIBLY  
CONNECT  DATA, 
TECHNOLOGY  
AND CARE
Every day, people put their health in our hands — it’s a 
responsibility we take seriously. Data and technology 
hold the key to transforming healthcare, and we’re 
committed to leveraging this power while protecting 
the information people share with us. 
TAILORED 
COACHING  
with Omada Health platform and 
FreeStyle Libre 14-day system CONNECTED TECHNOLOGIES  
like our FreeStyle Libre smartphone app that 
gives users clear information about their 
glucose status without the use of a separate 
reader, and LibreLinkUp, an app that allows healthcare providers and loved ones to 
monitor your glucose levels remotely5X  
more frequent glucose 
scanning with  
FreeStyle Libre 2 INITIATIVE SPOTLIGHT
WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 DATA
24Our Approach to Responsible Data 
Timely, accurate and secure data can empower people to take 
control of their own health, and it can help connect them to care, 
wherever they are. Protecting that data is key to achieving our 
vision of digitized, democratized and decentralized healthcare.
Technology has always fueled advances in healthcare, and we plan 
to remain at the forefront of this progress. As we expand our data 
capabilities, we are also implementing increasingly robust measures 
for managing and protecting large volumes of private information. 
We have established three guiding principles to direct our efforts  
and ensure we are: The Principles of Data Use
INTENTIONAL
in how we connect our 
technology, what data we 
collect and how we use it 
and protect it RESPONSIBLE
in our role in enabling 
the power of data and 
also in its appropriate use 
and protectionTRANSPARENT
in communicating to people 
and letting them know how 
their data will be usedMaintained a cybersecurity 
certification program  that 
includes external SOC 2 and 
International Organization 
for Standardization 
(ISO) 27001 assessments.Partnered to develop future 
cybersecurity talent  as a 
founding member of the 
University of Minnesota 
Center for Medical Device 
Cybersecurity .
Published a formal 
commitment to customer and 
patient privacy and information 
protection. Established a coordinated 
vulnerability disclosure 
program  with a mechanism  
for reporting product and 
system vulnerabilities. 
For specific information on our 2030 goals around Responsible Data, see page 11.OUR 2030
GOALS PROGRESS
WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 DATA
25OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
Throughout 2021, we performed maturity 
assessments for both our privacy and product 
security organizations. The results give us a 
stronger view of our capabilities and will help 
drive continuous improvement initiatives. We 
also produced new data privacy principles , 
effective as of January 1, 2022, to make our 
position on information collection, data use and 
sharing, and security clear and publicly available. 
OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH
To provide personalized treatments we must 
draw on patient and customer insights. To 
address potential privacy risks, we develop 
our products, processes and internal systems Data Privacy and Security, Governance  
and Management 
securely, embedding data safety considerations 
in everything we do. We comply with local 
regulations for reporting and notification 
of security breaches involving customers’ 
personal information in all locations where 
Abbott operates.
We transitioned our global privacy program 
to a centralized system in 2018, to drive a 
consistent approach across Abbott. Our Global 
Privacy Office — part of our Office of Ethics and 
Compliance (OEC) — is overseen by the Chief 
Ethics and Compliance Officer and the Divisional 
Vice President for Global Privacy. Dedicated 
global professionals, as well as country-specific 
privacy champions, identify and address data 
privacy matters. Clear standards, processes and 
training develop employee understanding of how 
to protect sensitive information, making data 
privacy a shared responsibility. 
Oversight Committees 
In addition to the Global Privacy Office, 
we have two oversight committees that connect with key stakeholders across Abbott. 
Each oversight committee also has its own 
operational committees that engage at a 
product and business-unit level. 
The Cybersecurity and Privacy Oversight 
Committee brings together officers from Legal, 
OEC, Finance, Human Resources, Quality and 
Information Technology. Its role is to provide 
oversight to senior management on Abbott’s 
cybersecurity and privacy programs, and to 
advise on and monitor strategies. The Product 
Security Oversight Committee, established 
in January 2020, comprises corporate and 
division senior leadership across Abbott. The 
committee meets quarterly to develop our 
strategy and approach to product security, 
monitoring progress and supporting company-
wide compliance. 
In addition, Abbott’s senior cybersecurity and 
privacy leaders provide regular updates to the 
Board of Directors and Board Committees, 
providing progress updates, sharing 
opportunities for improvement and embedding 
data protection and cybersecurity into the top 
levels of governance.We are committed to responsibly 
collecting, using and protecting personal 
information. Strong governance and a 
centralized privacy program ensure we 
uphold the most rigorous standards. KEEPING PATIENTS AND DOCTORS CONNECTED  
DURING COVID-19
We envision a world where data to inform better health choices is right at our 
fingertips. Our “connected care” devices bring new sight to healthcare, enabling 
remote monitoring of patients — something that has taken on new importance 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Our NeuroSphere Virtual Clinic met increasing demand for virtual care when 
in-person appointments were limited. Encrypted, authenticated in-app video 
chats and remote programming allowed doctors to monitor and adjust patient 
neuromodulation devices, all with the click of a button. And, so people feel 
protected while using the NeuroSphere Virtual Clinic, we have built it to comply 
with key privacy standards, like the EU General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA).
The service holds the potential to transform how patients receive care, 
something TIME magazine recognized when it named NeuroSphere to its  
list of 100 best inventions of 2021. 
WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 DATA
26OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH
We understand the potential impact of 
cyberattacks — for Abbott’s systems, and for the 
people who have entrusted us with their data. 
We focus on reducing risks of security breaches 
by regularly updating our systems and protocols. 
We have evolved our governance approach 
to have laser focus on two prominent cyber 
categories: enterprise and product cybersecurity. 
Our Enterprise cybersecurity organization is 
focused on ensuring the security and availability 
of the systems and technologies that support 
Abbott’s business operations. There are also 
regional cybersecurity leaders deployed in 
strategic geographies around the world for local 
support. This organization is led by Abbott’s 
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). Cybersecurity Management 
Our Product cybersecurity organization is 
focused on driving cybersecurity standards 
throughout the total product life cycle. At the 
corporate level, we provide shared services 
to our business units such as inventory 
and vulnerability management to leverage 
economies of scale. Our divisions and product 
teams also have cybersecurity expertise, 
ensuring that our products and medical devices 
are secure by design. Our Cybersecurity and 
Quality organizations partner to incorporate 
cybersecurity throughout the total product life 
cycle, from design to the integrity of quality data 
systems. This organization is led by Abbott’s 
Divisional Vice President of Product Security. 
Both cybersecurity leaders report to Abbott’s 
Chief Information Officer (CIO), who has overall 
responsibility. Our CIO reports directly to our 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO), who in turn 
reports to our Chief Executive Officer (CEO).Enterprise Cybersecurity 
Phishing attacks and social engineering scams 
are among the largest cybersecurity threats. 
One of the most important objectives of this 
organization is creating a security-focused 
culture and providing our employees clear 
direction on security controls necessary to 
protect operations. Our focus is to create a 
strong cybersecurity foundation by placing 
controls around our infrastructure and securing 
our operations to reduce vulnerabilities. We 
do this through education and awareness, 
designing the right cybersecurity architecture, 
implementing incident monitoring and response 
efforts, manufacturing cybersecurity, disaster 
recovery planning efforts and other services 
provided to the enterprise. Regardless of where 
employees are or what business function they 
represent, Abbott believes every employee 
plays a critical role in protecting Abbott data 
PARTNERING ON SECURITY
Cybersecurity issues can’t be addressed 
in a vacuum. That’s why we maintain 
multi-stakeholder partnerships to 
understand the latest cybersecurity 
threats and trends, support research 
and inform new standards and best 
practices, including: 
• • Health Information Sharing and 
Analysis Center (H-ISAC)
• • Medical Device Innovation 
Consortium (MDIC)
• • International Medical Device 
Regulators Forum (IMDRF)
• • Healthcare and Public Health 
Sector Coordinating Council 
(HPHSCC)and business systems and infrastructure. Our 
company-wide cybersecurity training program 
ensures that employees and contractors receive 
targeted training on phishing awareness 
and monitors results to identify retraining 
requirements. This way, we can help ensure 
everyone at Abbott understands that protecting 
sensitive data and personal information is 
everyone’s responsibility.
This year we created new roles for divisional 
Business Information Security Officers 
(BISOs) to embed cybersecurity further into 
our businesses. Additionally, the Data Loss 
Protection Program is designed to implement 
the proper security controls that will help 
monitor and prevent unauthorized data sharing.
WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 DATA
27Product Cybersecurity 
The growth of connected medical devices, 
products, diagnostics platforms and systems 
means healthcare professionals can provide 
their patients with smarter, faster and more 
effective treatments. At Abbott, we are 
unlocking potential solutions to some of our 
most difficult healthcare challenges. But we 
are also aware of evolving security threats, 
and we adapt our security measures to meet 
this changing world. Our approach to product 
cybersecurity is guided by four pillars:
Cybersecurity-embedded design  
to ensure we embed cybersecurity 
considerations throughout the total 
product life cycle. 
Threat and risk analysis  
to identify new threats and deploy 
controls, informed by external experts 
and information-sharing agreements with 
healthcare and cybersecurity specialists.
Testing by internal and external experts  
A regular testing program ensures our 
devices, products and systems meet or 
exceed cybersecurity standards.
Partnering with industry   
(more information on page 27) to support 
trend assessments, information sharing 
and creation of standards that protect 
patients and maintain trust. 1
2
3
4We maintain a cybersecurity certification 
program that includes SOC 2 and ISO 27001 
assessments for multiple Abbott products that 
process protected health information. These 
assessments are performed by an independent 
external auditor and cover the design and 
effectiveness of Abbott’s cybersecurity program 
and controls. 
Many of our products and programs are 
designed to collect information that can help 
people make better decisions about managing 
their health. This information also helps us 
understand how to make our products better 
and what our customers want to learn more 
about. Our goal is to ensure our devices, 
products and systems meet the highest security 
standards, and that commitment guides our 
approach to protecting data and privacy across 
our businesses.
To strengthen our ability to respond to changing 
circumstances, we have developed a customized 
cybersecurity control framework, informed by 
robust existing internal and industry strategies. 
The framework will support Product Security 
maturity assessments, providing a benchmark 
against which to measure progress. 
WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 DATA
28BUILD THE DIVERSE, 
INNOVATIVE 
WORKFORCE   
OF TOMORROW 
Our employees’ innovative ideas, hard work and dedication are helping 
build a sustainable and healthy future. What do they get from Abbott 
in return? One, they have the opportunity to grow, learn and have a 
rewarding career. Two, they can use the health, wellness and financial 
benefits we provide to build a secure life for themselves and their 
families. And three, they can be their true selves while working with 
other amazing people, doing work that truly matters. 
As we continue to prepare our existing workforce for the jobs 
of tomorrow, we also work to develop a pipeline of science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) talent through our 
high school and college intern programs; initiatives which, 
collectively, host hundreds of participants each year. These 
programs offer students — particularly female and minority 
applicants — the opportunity to kick-start a career in healthcare.70% 
of former college 
interns hired as  
full-time engineers are 
women 22 
LOCATIONS  
globally participate in 
our STEM internship 
programVOTED  
#1 
college internship 
program in healthcare in 
the U.S.  SPOTLIGHT
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 WORKFORCE
29After participating in Abbott’s high school STEM internship program, 
Janhvi Dubey went on to study biomedical engineering in college. 
Janhvi is now a college intern with Abbott.Our Approach to 
Building Tomorrow’s 
Workforce 
Our Workplace Environment Promise 
We are making a promise to every one of our employees to provide  
a work environment that: 
• • Promotes diversity and inclusion
• • Offers extensive professional development, mentoring and training programs
• • Encourages and supports work–life harmony 
• • Offers competitive compensation and benefits tailored to each market 
• • Protects human rights 
• • Promotes overall wellness 
• • Contributes to employee health and safety40%  
of global management positions 
are filled by women 33%  
of leadership roles held by people 
from underrepresented groups
$3.5M  
in savings contributions 
through our Freedom 2 
Save program45%  
of targeted new jobs 
filled internally 
44.6%  
female representation in  
STEM roles 
ACHIEVED  
163,315  
development and job 
opportunities for current and 
future employees 
1,375  
young people participated in 
2021 internship programsDedicated employees power our sustainable success. As they 
drive our growth, we provide a supportive, inclusive culture, and 
programs that help ensure their continued development and 
encourage them to build a successful career with us.
For specific information on our 2030 goals 
around Building Tomorrow’s Workforce, see 
page 12.OUR 2030
GOALS PROGRESS
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 WORKFORCE
30OUR APPROACH 
Talent management is overseen by our 
Executive Vice President, Human Resources — 
who reports directly to our Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) — and 
corporate officers, all of whom carry talent 
management goals.
Attracting the Best Talent 
We seek to maintain long-term relationships 
with candidates, showing them that their 
unique skills are valued by Abbott. We engage 
with candidates to provide all the information 
they need to succeed during interviews — 
including offering them access to our Abbott 
Talent Community — and maintain ongoing 
connections with them through our social 
channels. This way, we can build a pipeline of 
qualified, interested candidates that we can 
consider for future opportunities. In addition, we engage organizations such as 
Advancing Minorities’ Interest in Engineering 
(AMIE) and the Society of Women Engineers 
to identify diverse talent. Partnerships with 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
(HBCUs) institutions like Howard University 
and North Carolina Agricultural and Technical 
State University also support our future 
employee pipeline. 
Our career site employs artificial intelligence 
to enhance the application process, 
streamlining user experiences with tailored 
content and a personalized chatbot to help 
identify roles. In 2021, Abbott filled 26,184 
positions, and 15% of all open positions were 
filled by internal candidates. 
Developing Employees
In addition to attracting new employees, we 
are committed to developing and retaining our 
current employees. Through our many programs 
and resources, we provide opportunities for 
individual growth and development, helping 
employees build great long-term careers at 
Abbott. We value our experienced employees; 
their knowledge helps us succeed as a company 
and contributes to a strong succession pipeline. 
Some of the resources that help our employees 
progress include: • • Ongoing reviews, career development 
discussions and goal setting with managers 
• • Access to Career Connect — our personalized 
career development and planning tool
• • Mentoring, job-specific education  
and leadership training 
• • Annual performance management processes 
Our Board of Directors conducts an annual 
Talent Management Review (TMR) to 
review critical position succession plans and 
development actions. TMRs are also held at 
divisional, functional, country, region and 
team levels to find Ready Now and Ready 
Future successors, and to support intentional 
development plans for them. Included in these 
discussions is the identification of early career 
talent with leadership potential. 
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
Learning Opportunities 
We offer many employee development 
opportunities, working to bring more online 
each year. Throughout 2021, we delivered 
an average of 28 hours of training and 
development per full-time employee (FTE).5 
This equated to an average training and 
development spend of $227 per FTE. Also in 2021, Abbott launched a comprehensive 
leadership training program called Leading 
With Impact (LWI) for over 18,000 people 
managers worldwide. LWI provides 12 weeks 
of self-paced, virtually delivered, immediately 
applicable coaching and training.
By the end of 2021, 17 ,375 people managers 
had participated. Through the program, they 
gained new skills, tools and perspectives to 
help them create a more supportive, inclusive 
and rewarding environment for their teams.
Industry-Leading Internships 
Internships offer future innovators first-
hand industry experience. Throughout 2021, 
we expanded our IT and Computer Science 
internship in the U.S., with plans underway to 
bring our Engineering co-op program to more 
applicants. Our college internship program 
was voted #1 in Healthcare in the U.S. and 
ranked highly in 21 other countries. 
Read about our STEM internship expansion 
on page 33 .To continually innovate lifesaving solutions, 
we must empower our teams with skills to 
meet the health needs of tomorrow. Talent Management 
5 In previous years, we reported on our corporate-sponsored training 
only. Due to enhancement in data collection, we are including trainings 
conducted by our businesses in this submission; these programs were 
not previously reported. Hence, our results are significantly higher than 
in 2020. 
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 WORKFORCE
31Promoting diversity and inclusion is 
integral to how we lead. We want to create 
an environment that nurtures everyone, 
regardless of race, gender, age, sexual 
orientation, disability or nationality.The council meets several times a year to 
discuss key successes related to diversity and 
inclusion in the current year, and establish 
clear priorities for the future. The council 
can serve as an ad hoc advisor on new 
programs proposed to maximize inclusion 
at Abbott, and holds a formal responsibility 
for supporting the diversity and inclusion 
strategy development, ensuring diversity 
and inclusion practices are integrated into 
business practices/strategy, and program 
implementation at Abbott.
Communities of Support 
Employee networks bring underrepresented 
employees (and their allies) together to share 
experiences, expand visibility and create 
opportunities. Almost 15,000 members benefit 
from the activities and programs our employee 
network groups support. Each network is 
supported by our Diversity and Inclusion team 
and sponsored by an Abbott executive. Channels for Ongoing Communication 
As we work to build a more inclusive culture, 
we monitor our progress in a variety of ways. 
Annually, all employees have the opportunity 
to participate in an employee engagement 
survey. Employees may also be invited to share 
their views through onboarding and “stay” 
surveys, sponsored by our businesses and 
regional/country affiliates.
We maintain several other channels to 
gather thoughts. Our Chairman and CEO 
regularly communicates with employees 
through various channels, including email 
and video, and invites their responses. He 
also holds an annual All Employee meeting 
that provides an opportunity for employees 
to pose questions and comments. Our senior 
leaders also respond to employee comments 
and concerns at small-group and town-hall-
style meetings. Finally, our employee networks 
have created a host of additional forums for 
employees to voice opinions, concerns and 
recommendations for improvements. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
We are creating a culture where inclusiveness 
is a natural state, not an initiative. We want 
it to be the natural way things get done at 
Abbott. It takes all of us to build and maintain 
the just and inclusive culture we want to live 
and work in. To help build engagement, we’ve 
initiated a program of “Let’s Talk” sessions, in 
which employees engage in open and honest 
discussions about diversity and inclusion.
We are increasing representation of 
underrepresented groups throughout 
Abbott. Our Executive Diversity Council 
consists of diverse leaders who demonstrate 
their commitment to diversity and 
inclusion. Members are selected based on 
characteristics and qualities that highlight 
their desire to champion and drive diversity 
and inclusion and span across the enterprise.Diversity and Inclusion
Our Employee Network Groups
Organization Founded
Women Leaders of Abbott (WLA) 2000
Black Business Network (BBN) 2001
Flex Network  
(part-time/flexible employees)2001
Asian Leadership and Cultural Network 
(ALCN)2001
LA VOICE Network  
(Hispanic and Latino employees)2005
PRIDE (LGBTQ+ employees) 2007
Women in STEM 2016
Veterans Network 2017
Advancing Professionals Network (APN) 2018
Abbott disAbility Network 2021
Michelle Spencer, Senior Manager, Sales 
Operations in Abbott’s Nutrition business, was 
honored by our Black Business Network for her 
inspiring leadership within the organization.
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 WORKFORCE
32OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
Making Abbott an actively inclusive 
community is one of our top priorities. In 2021, 
we launched our inaugural Diversity, Equity &  
Inclusion report  setting out our action plan. 
We’re actively working to increase the number 
of women in our leadership ranks and across 
our many STEM roles. The annual Society 
of Women Engineers conference offers an 
opportunity to connect with the brightest 
female minds in the industry. 
In 2021, we nominated seven inspiring Abbott 
women for inclusion in the Women of Color 
in STEM Peer Review award. We were proud 
that Deborah Brown — our Senior Director 
of Toxicology — received an award for 
Managerial Leadership.  
Also in 2021, we received a number of awards 
and honors for our performance, including:
• • DiversityInc’s Top 50 Companies for 
Diversity (18 straight years in 2021)
• • 2021 Seramount Inclusion Index
• • 2021 Seramount Best Companies for 
Multicultural WomenEthnic Representation in U.S. Management Positions (totals by race)
Underrepresented 
groups33%White 67% 
 
Workplace Gender Diversity, U.S. 
Our continued focus has helped us maintain or improve our gender diversity 
measures across the board, and we take particular pride in the progress we’ve 
made increasing our percentage of management positions held by women.
Workplace Gender Diversity, Global Female share of workforce
47%
47%2021
2020 
 
Female share of workforce
45%
45%2021
2020 
 Total management positions filled by women
43%
32%2021
2020 
 
Total management positions filled by women
40%
39%2021
2020 
 Women in STEM-related positions
43%
42%2021
2020 
 
Women in STEM-related positions
44.6%
44%2021
2020 
 
Nurturing Diversity in STEM
Our High School STEM internship 
program supports female and 
minority students making their first 
steps into STEM fields. It aims to 
boost diversity in our talent pipeline 
while advancing prospects for interns. 
In 2021, we expanded the program 
to Singapore, Vietnam and Puerto 
Rico, offering placements to 50 
students. And, for the first time, 
U.S. participants could apply for 
college credit, creating an incentive 
to stay in STEM and increasing 
degree completion. 
This year, we plan to expand to Costa 
Rica, giving more students from 
diverse backgrounds the opportunity 
to kick-start their career. And, to 
expand impact in this area, Abbott has 
created the “Shaping the Future of 
STEM” blueprint, a scalable plan we 
share with other companies to help 
them create their own high school 
STEM internship programs.
After a summer as an intern in Abbott’s 
Global Product Quality organization, 
Maya Outlaw joined the company 
full-time in 2020 in our Operations 
Professional Development Program.
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 WORKFORCE
33We play an active role in protecting 
human rights, complying with laws and 
regulations wherever we operate and 
creating our own standards.• • Providing compensation and benefits that 
are competitive; complying with applicable 
laws for minimum wages, overtime hours 
and mandated benefits; and providing 
competitive income in the context of  
each market
• • Encouraging open communication between 
management and employees
We maintain policies, including our Code of 
Business Conduct and policy on workplace 
harassment, that reinforce our zero tolerance 
for any discrimination. They detail steps for 
reporting instances of workplace harassment 
or discrimination and clearly define escalation 
processes. Every U.S. employee is required 
to complete unconscious bias and anti-
harassment training annually. 
We investigate all reported instances in a 
sympathetic and confidential manner and, 
where necessary, take corrective action. 
Consequences for employees include 
disciplinary action, up to and including 
termination. Read more about our processes 
for reporting, investigating and addressing 
instances of harassment and discrimination 
on page 79 . Our approach to identifying and 
managing human rights risks
Our processes for managing human rights 
risks are embedded across our business, 
encompassing our workforce policies, 
ethics and compliance program, supply 
chain management approach, and more. 
We aim to proactively identify and mitigate 
potential human rights impacts across our 
operations and value chain, including risks 
of discrimination and unequal pay; unsafe 
working conditions; human trafficking; 
child labor; and forced or bonded labor. We 
conduct periodic reviews of our risk exposure, 
including annual high-level risk assessments of 
all suppliers (see page 67).
Abbott employees are expected to adhere to 
all laws and Abbott’s policies, procedures, 
principles and standards. Our Code of Business 
Conduct includes prohibitions on illegal and 
inappropriate labor conditions, and cruel 
or inhumane treatment. For details on our 
approach to discrimination and harassment, 
see page 79 , and find more on our approach to 
compensation and benefits on page 36 . Further 
information on how we ensure the health and 
safety of our employees and contract workers 
is on page 38 .Our global guidelines include: 
• • Providing a healthy and safe 
working environment
• •  Complying with child labor laws and laws 
prohibiting any form of forced, bonded or 
indentured labor
• • Promoting workforce diversity and not 
discriminating against any employee for 
reasons such as race, religion, color, age, 
gender, ethnicity, disability, marital status 
and sexual orientation, in addition to any 
other status protected by local laws
• • Not tolerating any harassment (sexual or 
nonsexual) or harsh or inhumane treatment 
in the workplace; this includes providing 
harassment training for employees
• • Protecting individual privacyProtecting Human Rights
In our supply chain, we establish human 
rights expectations of all suppliers we enter 
a business relationship with through our 
Supplier Guidelines, and conduct assessment, 
monitoring and auditing of suppliers to 
identify and mitigate potential risks, including 
those related to human rights. For further 
information, see page 64 and page 67 .
We also address human rights risks in our 
other business relationships, including 
through our Third-Party Compliance 
Process, which requires Abbott businesses, 
subsidiaries and affiliates outside the U.S. to 
complete due diligence before engaging third-
party companies. This includes screening 
companies, identifying high-risk partners and 
monitoring and mitigating any potential risks, 
including human rights risks. For more details, 
see page 81.
We investigate reported concerns and actual 
or potential violations of our policies, and 
take corrective action, if needed, in a timely 
manner. Read more on page 67 and page 79 .
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
34
WORKFORCE
Allison Huckins, Abbott STEM intern.6 This figure includes employee donations and Abbott Fund donation 
matches. It also reflects payroll deduction pledges that are deducted 
during the 2022 calendar year and may be subject to change based on 
individual employee decisions. Employee Community Engagement
Abbott Fund Matching Grant Program into  
one integrated donation program. 
Through the new Employee Giving Program, the 
Abbott Fund has expanded its guidelines, making 
more nonprofit organizations eligible for matched 
donations, and doubling its match to 100% of 
eligible donations, up from 50% previously. And, 
so every cent goes to the charity of choice, Abbott 
commits to paying all processing fees. 
Employee Volunteering 
We provide employees with a range of 
opportunities for local volunteering. Most 
recently, we honored the legacy of Martin Luther 
King Jr. by continuing to offer U.S. employees 
eight hours of paid time to volunteer — at any 
time during the year — in their community in 
ways that are meaningful for them.
Our employees are passionate about making a 
difference in our industry as well, and know that 
to create the healthcare innovators of tomorrow, 
we must inspire young people today. We 
maintain partnerships with schools, educational 
organizations and nonprofits to promote 
engagement in STEM. Our employees care about the people 
we serve, whether that’s delivering life-
changing solutions or giving back to the 
communities we call home. By supporting 
local causes, our employees bring to life 
Abbott’s purpose to help more people 
than ever achieve better health. OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
Through our enhanced Employee Giving 
Program, which launched in September 
2021, employees can donate year-round to 
organizations they care about. Included in 
this is our Employee Giving Campaign, an 
annual donation drive run every October for 
over 40 years. During the 2021 campaign, 
95% of employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico 
pledged over $15 million6 to more than 9,500 
charitable organizations in a single month — a 
clear indicator of their passion for making 
a difference.OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
Caring has always been one of our core values. 
Our Employee Giving Program and volunteering 
options create spaces for employees to uphold 
this legacy of care in their communities. 
Oversight for community engagement sits 
with our Citizenship organization, including 
employee giving and volunteering, as well as 
programs and strategies for product donations. 
Employee Donations and Matched Giving 
In 2021, we introduced our enhanced 
Employee Giving Program in the U.S. and 
Puerto Rico. The program brings together 
our existing Employee Giving Campaign and 
FUTURE WELL  KIDS  
The Future Well Kids program encourages young 
people to take charge of their own health today 
by developing habits that will help them maintain 
good health their entire lives. Powered almost 
entirely by Abbott employee volunteers who 
deliver a fun and engaging curriculum to students 
ages 10–13 throughout the school year, Future 
Well Kids teaches kids about noncommunicable 
diseases (NCDs) through lessons about science, 
health and the human body. During the 2020–
2021 school year, three countries had the program 
delivered, with six Abbott sites working with 
eight partner schools or organizations.
Read more about Future Well Kids on page 23 . 
FOR THE 2020–2021 SCHOOL YEAR
608  
STUDENTS  
positively impacted98 
CLASSROOM 
VISITS  
across 23 partner 
classrooms delivered2021 Social Investing
Cash contributions $48,311,612
In-kind giving, product or 
service donations$35,961,192
Administrative costs  $5,120,420
Time, employee volunteering $736,774
Total $90,129,998
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 WORKFORCE
35Anthony Ashford is pursuing a degree in 
business management with the support of 
Abbott’s FreeU program.OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
Abbott compensates employees based on the 
work they do, regardless of race, ethnicity or 
gender. We are committed to equal pay for 
equal work, and do not tolerate discrimination 
in pay, as stated in our position statement 
on human rights. Three concepts guide 
development of consistent, fair compensation: 
• • Base salaries and benefits are based on, 
and competitive in, the markets where we 
compete for talent
• • Annual and long-term incentives are linked 
to business and individual performance, 
with a balance of short- and long-term 
financial and strategic objectives 
• • Compensation encourages behavior 
consistent with the ethical values in 
Abbott’s Code of Business Conduct Our leadership covenant specifically states 
that senior leaders are accountable for the 
achievement of Abbott’s 2030 Sustainability 
Plan goals. Any corporate officer that does not 
fulfill the covenant can receive a reduction of 
up to 100% of their annual incentive and/or 
long-term incentive awards.
A Stake in Abbott7 
Helping employees build an ownership stake 
in Abbott is key to our philosophy. Several 
programs facilitate this: 
• • Global long-term incentive program: 
grants restricted stock units (RSUs) to 
employees, generally beginning at the 
manager level. Paid out in shares of Abbott 
common stock (except in countries that 
require cash payment). 
• • 401(k) program: offers employees in 
the U.S. and Puerto Rico a 5% match for 
employee contributions of 2% or more. 
Employees can choose from a range of 
investments, including company stock. 
• • Employees Stock Purchase Plan: offers 
employees (excluding corporate officers) 
in most countries outside the U.S. stock at a 
discounted price.Enabling Financial Freedom
Our first-of-its-kind Freedom 2 Save program 
helps U.S. employees save for retirement while 
repaying student loans. Employees who put 
at least 2% of eligible pay toward repayments 
receive a 5% 401(k) contribution from Abbott. 
More than 1,400 employees have enrolled, 
with Abbott contributing over $3.5 million 
dollars to their accounts. 
For retirement-eligible employees, Freedom to 
Work supports reduced schedules, workloads 
and/or responsibilities while allowing employees 
to continue building retirement income. Over 
1,800 employees have enrolled since 2008.
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
In 2021, Abbott granted RSUs to 13,199 
employees across 71 countries, while more than 
18,000 employees in 60 countries participated 
in our Employees Stock Purchase Plan. 
Supporting Financial Independence 
A new college loan repayment program in the 
Netherlands is helping more employees achieve 
financial independence. Eligible employees8 
can receive reimbursement from Abbott of 
¤1,200 annually, up to a total of 50% of post-
graduation balance. 7 Eligibility for nonsalary benefits follows local regulations and practices. In most countries, this means we offer benefits to full-time employees 
and part-time employees working more than a certain number of hours. Outside the U.S., we typically provide benefit programs above and beyond 
government requirements.
8 Full-time, permanent employees with loans under the Dutch student loan system implemented in 2015.Our compensation and benefits programs 
are designed to enable our employees to 
build financial security and to provide for 
the health and well-being of themselves 
and their families.Compensation and Benefits
Enabling Further Education with FreeU
We know financial considerations can 
represent a barrier to further education. 
In 2021, we launched FreeU that, when 
combined with our tuition reimbursement 
program, enables employees to pursue a 
bachelor’s degree at no personal cost. This 
program underscores Abbott’s commitment 
to — and belief in — developing our people 
so they can pursue rewarding careers.
Abbott pays the full cost of required starting 
coursework. Credits are then automatically 
transferred to a participating online 
university where employees can complete 
their studies. 
Employees have access to free classes on 
topics like time management and study skills 
plus 10 hours of personal tutoring annually. 
Success coaches support participants to plan 
and achieve academic goals while access to 
MyTimeEnglish helps non-native English 
speakers develop the language skills needed 
to complete assignments. 
137 people enrolled in the FreeU program in 
the six months that followed its launch.
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 WORKFORCE
36A Globally Recognized Commitment to Our Employees
We prioritize well-being because we care about our employees. 
While not motivated by external recognition, we are proud 
to have been featured in several global indices for our efforts 
throughout 2021. 
• • Great Place to Work certified  
(U.S., U.K., Brazil, Costa Rica)
• •  Fortune Best Workplaces in Health Care and Best Big 
Companies to Work For
• • Seramount 100 Best Company
• • Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption Best Adoption-
Friendly Workplace
• • Science magazine Top Employer
• • Certified Top Employer by Top Employers Institute  
in six EU and three Middle East countriesOUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
We recognize that, to feel and perform 
at their best, employees must be able to 
balance work and family responsibilities. 
During the pandemic, we recognized that 
the way we work was going to change. So, 
building upon our long-standing practice of 
flexibility, we made changes to support these 
trends, offering eligible employees enhanced 
opportunities to benefit from options like 
flextime, compressed work weeks, reduced 
schedules, job sharing and remote working. 
We also made changes to our U.S. vacation 
policy to offer employees more weeks of paid 
time off earlier in their careers.In the U.S., on-site child care, discounts 
on external child care, and parenting and 
counseling services are provided. New 
parents are offered eight weeks’ paid leave, 
and since 2015, we have given financial 
support for adoption of up to $20,000 
per child. 
Our company-funded Employee Assistance 
Program (EAP) provides free expert mental 
health support for employees and their 
families through one-on-one assistance, 
seminars, online courses, crisis intervention 
services and workplace emergency response. 
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
Supporting Every Employee
We want as many of our people as possible 
to benefit from well-being services. In 2021, 
we expanded our EAP to the Czech Republic, 
Slovakia, South Africa and Vietnam, reaching 
more employees with mental health support. 
This builds on the more than 20 countries we 
introduced the EAP to in 2020 and brings  
the total program presence to more than  
50 countries.Thousands of employees participated in 
wellness sessions, including a webinar 
on reducing stress, overcoming burnout, 
enhancing relationships and creating work–
life balance, and a live meditation session. In 
honor of World Mental Health Day in October, 
we offered employees across the world three 
mental health awareness webinars.
In India, the second wave of COVID-19 
presented a difficult situation with the average 
daily case numbers peaking above 300,000. 
This led to a scarcity of oxygen, medicines, 
hospital beds, ventilators and access to 
doctors and a medical infrastructure stretched 
beyond capacity. Our team in India mobilized 
resources to build a regional task force and 
a comprehensive program for employees 
and their families. They delivered support 
to employees that included telemedicine 
and home COVID-19 management; robust 
employee communications and support; 
oxygen concentrators for employee usage and 
vaccinations for all employees.Employee well-being matters, and we are 
fully committed to protecting it. We offer 
programs that support work–life harmony 
and promote good health, with many 
available to employees’ families as well.Employee Well-Being
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 WORKFORCE
37OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
Our EHS Leadership Council governs the 
EHS organization. It comprises professionals 
who manage internal programs across 
90 manufacturing sites, and commercial 
professionals who support field-based 
teams, offices and warehouses in more 
than 90 countries. The commercial EHS 
organization is divided across six regions, 
each with a dedicated manager. At each 
Abbott site, designated safety representatives 
and safety teams help ensure the successful 
implementation of our internal programs.
We maintain global policies and standards  
for managing employee health and safety. 
Experts regularly update these to reflect 
changes in regulations and global expectations. 
Similar standards extend to contractors working at Abbott locations. Each site 
must comply with robust contractor EHS 
management programs, including: 
• • Training for Abbott employees responsible 
for contractor activities
• • An EHS approval process for 
contractor companies 
• • Orientations for contractor employees
• • EHS plans for projects over $2 million
• • A full-time safety representative on large 
construction projects 
• • Inspections of contractor activity
• • Contractor completion of Job Hazard 
Analyses or Risk Assessment and 
Method Statements 
• • Evaluation of contractor company’s 
EHS performance 
We regularly evaluate commercial operations, 
manufacturing and research and development 
(R&D) sites through internal compliance 
assurance audits that cover: 
• • Health and safety 
• • Strategic planning and prioritization • • Risk assessment/self-assessment 
• • Business integration 
• • Training and awareness 
• • Communication and information 
• • Performance measures 
Senior leadership uses EHS scorecards to 
monitor performance. We communicate results 
across our organization, identifying necessary 
corrective actions and ensuring actions are 
completed on time. A separate Global Health 
Scorecard is used by site and divisional leaders 
to track implementation of occupational health 
and well-being initiatives. Each site is required 
to improve its score annually. 
Occupational Health Services 
Our global Occupational Health Services 
(OHS) team — part of the EHS organization — 
develops and maintains occupational health 
(OH) policies, procedures and guidelines, trains 
relevant employees and consults on regulatory 
compliance. Together with the EHS team, they 
lead our response to public health emergencies 
with the potential to impact our business, such 
as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.This team is also responsible for implementing 
our global employee health and productivity 
strategy, tracking progress against key 
performance indicators (KPIs) and identifying 
improvement opportunities. To support this, 
we have developed our Occupational Health 
Services Standard, requiring facilities to 
provide adequate resources and designated 
healthcare professionals with site-specific 
knowledge. Today, over 130 OH professionals 
support employee health and well-being, treat 
illnesses and injuries, and maintain employee 
medical records. They conduct regular 
screenings and health education programs to 
identify and minimize occupational risks. 
Our Reproductive Hazard Management 
Standard ensures the health and safety of 
employees and their potential future children. 
We also use established external standards 
and certifications to drive continuous 
improvement. At the end of 2021, 22 
Abbott sites were certified to International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 45001.The health and safety of our employees and 
contract workers is paramount for Abbott. 
Through an integrated Environment, 
Health and Safety (EHS) management 
system and a dedicated EHS Leadership 
Council, we are embedding a culture of 
safety across every area of our business.Employee Health and Safety
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 WORKFORCE
389 Cases per 100 workers
10 Cases per 100 workers –Identifying potential emergencies 
and required responses
 –Clearly marked emergency 
response equipment
 –Designating an emergency coordinator  
and Response team
 –Procedures for reporting emergencies  
and site evacuations
 –Employee and Emergency Response  
team training
 –Annual procedure reviews 
A full list of EHS management and technical 
standards is available online.
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
Throughout 2020, we achieved a significant 
improvement in our lost-time case rate, partially 
the result of increased working at home during 
the pandemic. However, each division also 
implemented initiatives to drive improvement. 
These include ongoing driver safety initiatives 
and multiple ergonomic projects. Our 2021 lost-
time case rate has remained consistent with what 
we achieved in 2020, even as operational activity 
and on-site working returned to pre-pandemic 
levels at certain facilities. We are also happy 
to report that Abbott experienced no fatalities 
among our employees or contractors in 2021.Increasingly Robust Standards
Our teams have worked to increase 
understanding of workplace health and safety 
issues, updating our protocols to safeguard 
against occupational injuries and illness. We 
refreshed our internal ergonomic technical 
standard to more thoroughly address 
the leading causes of illness and injuries. 
Additionally, increased focus was placed on 
creating a global task force on lockout/tagout 
control of hazardous energy, a step that will 
help ensure enhanced safety procedures are 
followed when servicing machinery. 
A Global Safe-Driving Program
Our safe-driving program reduces vehicle 
accidents across Abbott. In Latin America, 
a new driver risk assessment covers driver 
profile, driving behaviors and knowledge of 
local traffic regulations. This information will 
help us develop trainings targeted to drivers’ 
specific risk level. In India, our commercial 
EHS team is developing a vehicle safety 
initiative focused on two-wheelers to reduce 
crash-related injuries.
Continuing to Keep People Healthy  
During COVID-19
Throughout 2021, we have maintained robust 
on-site cleaning procedures and continued to 
provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to those who require it. To keep employees 
healthy we offered on-site testing and vaccine 
clinics in certain locations. 
In the U.S., we regularly test employees and 
contractors directly involved in manufacturing 
our COVID-19 tests, and have expanded this 
testing to other facilities and offices across 
the U.S. and at our facilities in other countries 
as well. This ambitious employee testing 
program has resulted in more than 3 million 
tests performed globally since the start of the 
employee and contractor testing. We have also 
developed guidelines on traveling, returning 
to work and case management to reduce 
transmission risks.
While social distancing, wearing a mask, 
frequent hand washing, and asking that 
employees stay home (with pay) if they feel 
ill or show symptoms are all critical steps to 
maintaining a healthy work environment, our 
program of regular testing gave our employees 
additional peace of mind as they returned to 
the office. Measures have been introduced on a 
site-by-site basis, timed to align with country-
specific regulatory developments. Fostering a Health and Safety Culture 
To build a robust health and safety culture, we 
must engage everyone at Abbott — something 
we achieve and maintain through our EHS 
policy and several technical and management 
standards, including: 
• • Risk Assessment and Self-Assessment 
Management Standard: requirements  
for assessing and mitigating health and 
safety risks 
• • Training and Awareness Management 
Standard: requirements for employees to 
be aware of health and safety risks and have 
knowledge of job-specific hazards
• • Area-specific technical standards:  
e.g., Fleet Safety, Control of Hazardous 
Energy, Confined Spaces, Ergonomics, 
Electrical Safety, Biological Safety and 
Working at Heights 
• • Emergency Preparedness Standard: 
requirements for emergency preparedness 
planning and minimum requirements to 
ensure health and safety on-site and in 
surrounding communities. Includes:
 –Detailed site descriptions and 
hazardous chemical lists 
OHS Performance
Abbott senior leadership regularly reviews 
OHS data to help ensure continuous 
improvement in this area.
Lost-Time Case Rate9  
Employee and Contractor
0.12
0.13
0.30
0.242021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
Vehicle Accidents per Million Miles  
Employees
2.61
2.7
3.9
4.12021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
Recordable Case Rate10  
Employees
0.29
0.28
0.46
0.412021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
DATA ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
39
WORKFORCE
PROTECT A  
HEALTHY   
ENVIRONMENT
We are champions for health. This means 
developing products and technologies that 
change people’s lives. It also means protecting 
the planet that supports every living thing. 
As global temperatures increase, one of the most 
pressing issues is the growing scarcity of clean, safe 
water. In Spain, we completed the installation of a 
second reverse osmosis (RO) system to minimize 
water use, safeguarding potable sources for the 
people whose quality of life relies on them. INITIATIVE SPOTLIGHT
12,800 
kWh 
less energy needed to run 
water wells  3.7 
METRIC TONS  
CO 2e associated 
emission savings  8M 
GALLONS  
of water 
saved annually  
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ENVIRONMENT
40Environmental Impact Projects 
Every year, our sites establish and advance projects tailored to address 
the unique requirements of each region to reduce environmental 
impacts. By developing our facilities for environmental efficiency,  
we can also achieve significant financial savings.Safeguarding the environment must be a priority for Abbott if 
we are to help people around the world live healthier, fuller lives. 
Evolving our operations to reduce our environmental footprint 
will also help us build a more resilient business for the long term. 
71 projects completed 38 sites across 
15 countries ~$990,000 annual 
savings
6.6 million kWh annual 
energy savings and 
1,700 metric tons CO 2e 
emissions reduced annually457 U.S. tons of waste 
eliminated annually18.7 million gallons of 
water saved annually
Our Approach to 
Environmental Protection
Committed to a science-based 
target  for Scope 1, 2 and 3 
carbon emissionsLaid groundwork for future  
water stewardship  certification 
and management practice 
accreditation
556  SUPPLIERS   
engaged to evaluate climate, 
water and waste risk 
management530,200 
POUNDS  
of packaging impacted through 
sustainable design since 2020
88.5%  WASTE   
diversion rate5%  REDUCTION  
in Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
(vs. 2018)
For specific information on our 2030 goals around Environmental Protection, see page 13.
OUR 2030
GOALS PROGRESS
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ENVIRONMENT
41Environmental Governance 
Abbott operations are present around 
the world. A clearly defined, robust 
governance structure ensures the 
environmental impact of these facilities  
is as positive as possible. 
OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
Environmental governance and management 
fall under our Environment, Health and 
Safety (EHS) approach, led by our Board 
of Directors and senior management. Our 
EHS organization reports to the Senior Vice 
President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory and 
Engineering Services who, in turn, reports to 
our Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The Senior 
Vice President is also the executive sponsor 
for the development of our climate and 
water strategy. Policies and Management Systems 
Our policies and standards are updated regularly 
to reflect best practices, regulatory trends and 
requirements. A comprehensive audit program 
monitors compliance and identifies potential 
risks to our business and employees. 
We evaluate EHS risk factors for each site 
annually, using insights to determine audit 
frequency. Following audits, corrective 
action plans are developed, implemented and 
monitored where needed. 
Environmental and Ecosystem Protection
Protecting biodiversity and ecosystems is 
key to environmental management. Abbott 
maintains technical standards for preventing 
unpermitted environmental releases that 
facilities must comply with alongside 
relevant external regulations. Many sites have 
implemented protective measures, including 
processes to safeguard soil and groundwater, 
protect and restore wetlands and prairies, and 
remove invasive species.Mergers and Acquisitions
Our EHS policy requires that EHS liability and 
compliance evaluations are conducted prior 
to all property and business acquisitions and 
divestitures. Compliance with our EHS policy 
is also incorporated into all new acquisitions. 
The type of due diligence we undertake 
depends on the nature of the transaction:
• • Real property transactions: 
Environmental due diligence is conducted 
to evaluate potential environmental risks 
and liabilities associated with real property 
acquisitions and divestitures. 
• • Business acquisitions: In conjunction 
with environmental due diligence, a 
company’s EHS resources and programs 
are assessed, gaps identified and resources 
estimated to align with regulatory 
requirements and Abbott standards.Abbott develops multi-year integration plans 
to ensure acquisitions align with our EHS 
management practices and standards. This 
includes providing training and resources to 
enable implementation of our EHS policy. 
Progress against integration plans is monitored 
to help ensure their ongoing efficacy. The final 
step in integration plans is often an internal 
EHS compliance audit to ensure acquired 
businesses are fully aligned. 
Engaging Employees in Our Efforts 
All EHS employees receive training on 
our standards and changing regulatory 
requirements. We maintain several employee 
engagement initiatives, including: 
• • Evaluating EHS leaders against 
performance goals in annual reviews
• • Raising awareness of priority EHS issues 
through dedicated discussion forums
• • Recognizing exceptional performance 
through our annual EHS Awards Program 
All EHS policies and standards are available 
online. Read more about our strategy on  
page 38 . Global Operations Council (GOC)
• Oversees operations strategy 
across manufacturing, 
supply chain, engineering 
and EHS
Commercial EHS Executive Council
• Sets EHS priorities, 
goals and objectives for 
commercial operations
EHS Leadership Council
• Sets EHS strategy and 
ensures execution 
of  programs
• Builds company awareness 
and sharing of EHS 
best practices
Supply Chain Council (SCC)
• Identifies suppliers to 
engage with on shared 
sustainability responsibilities 
and initiativesFOUR LEADERSHIP COUNCILS 
SUPPORT IMPLEMENTATION OF 
OUR EHS PROGRAMS
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ENVIRONMENT
42Energy and Emissions
We are committed to safeguarding a 
healthier planet for everyone. One way 
we do this is by reducing our emissions, 
finding more efficient ways to use energy 
and limiting reliance on fossil fuels. 
OUR IMPACT
We realize our emissions contribute to global 
climate change. Our operational activities 
produce Scope 1 (direct) and 2 (indirect)11 
emissions. Emissions from activities like business 
travel, waste disposal, raw material sourcing and 
processing, and product distribution, packaging 
and disposal — collectively known as Scope 3 
emissions — also contribute to our footprint. 
We’re working to reduce the negative impacts 
of our emissions by investing in renewable 
energy, reducing fleet fuel consumption, 
increasing manufacturing efficiency and 
partnering with suppliers. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
We maintain a robust program for recording 
and reducing energy and air emissions, 
outlined in both our Climate Responsible 
Energy Policy and Internal Energy Guidelines. 
Along with these documents, our Global EHS 
Governance team provides guidance on:
• • Energy efficiency in  
manufacturing operations
• • Low-carbon energy investments 
• • Transportation fleet efficiency
• • Supply chain carbon footprint 
• • Public reporting of our performance 
We align with international frameworks — 
including CDP and the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Protocol — to measure, track, reduce and  
report emissions.
11 Scope 1 emissions result from owned and controlled sources. Scope 2 
emissions are produced during generation of purchased electricity 
and energy.
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ENVIRONMENT
43A Holistic Plan for Reductions 
We are committed to supporting the Science 
Based Targets initiative (SBTi) objective. By 
2030, we plan to reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
by 30%12 (vs. 2018). 
We have established a comprehensive program 
for reducing these emissions, including measures 
to advance: 
• • Operational energy efficiency, driving 
reductions in energy demands
• • Purchase of renewable energy 
• • Electrification of industrial processes, 
spaces and fleets
• • Conversion to cleaner fuel options
• • Integration of sustainable engineering 
technologies and concepts into projects
Each Abbott business sets individual annual 
energy efficiency targets. Manufacturing sites 
that produce over 25,000 metric tons of CO 2e 
annually are required to set additional carbon 
reduction goals. 
Our Scope 3 emissions constitute around 93% 
of total emissions. We calculate them annually 
using the GHG Protocol Corporate Value 
Chain (Scope 3) Standard, referring to the 10 
Scope 3 categories* that apply to Abbott (see 
Our Carbon Footprint infographic). We’re currently developing a quantitative 
target for Scope 3 emissions. This will include 
working with key carbon-intensive suppliers 
on emission reduction solutions. Read more 
about supply chain efforts on page 62 . 
We have our data assured every year. All 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, as well as Scope 
3 emissions related to business travel and 
operational waste production, are verified 
through a third-party assurance process. Our 
latest assurance statement is available on our 
Environmental Policy page . 
Regulated Air Emissions 
The production of some Abbott products 
involves substances that are ozone-depleting 
or classified as hazardous or toxic air 
pollutants (HAPs) by local environmental 
protection agencies. We require all Abbott 
facilities using these substances to take all 
necessary steps to ensure the protection of 
human health and the environment. This 
includes adhering to all applicable regulations, 
as well as to Abbott technical standards.
Our Supplier Guidelines establish that  
the same standards are expected of all  
Abbott suppliers. 
12 Target expected to be validated by SBTi in 2022. 2030 targets will be measured in terms of CO 2e emissions. They will include all GHG emissions 
covered by the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) 
methodology for GHG reporting.
* Transportation and Distribution includes Upstream and Downstream.Our Carbon Footprint Scope 3 Breakdown 
0.1% Waste from operations0.9% Fuel and energy  
(not Scope 1 or 2)
5.5% Use of  
sold products0.6% Business travel
2.6% Employee commuting1.8% End-of-life treatment
13% Transportation and distribution
6.5% Capital goods 69% Purchased goods and services
93% Scope 34% Scope 13% Scope 2
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
44
ENVIRONMENT
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE 
Throughout 2021, absolute Scope 1 and 2 
emissions production increased by 3.3% 
compared to 2020. When adjusted for sales, 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions decreased 17% 
over this same time period. In 2021, as our 
products  — including COVID-19 testing and 
diagnostics — became increasingly important 
for patients and healthcare workers globally, 
we expanded production, which has come 
with a rise in emissions. As we move forward, 
we continue to identify ways to reduce our 
carbon footprint year-on-year to achieve our 
2030 goal. 
A More Energy-Efficient Global Operation
To reduce energy demand, we have made 
several operational energy-efficient 
improvements as retrofits to existing 
equipment or through active and efficient 
in-house energy management. Several sites 
use energy data and innovative methods to 
identify and quantify energy inefficiencies in 
manufacturing processes, often employing 
external experts. These insights then inform 
a list of priority energy demand reduction 
projects across the global business. For example, in Indonesia, many of our motors 
have been upgraded with variable speed 
drives, reducing energy requirements while 
retaining performance. 
Our manufacturing site in Singapore achieved 
an 8% CO 2 emissions intensity reduction in 
2021 even with an 11% increase in volume, 
through initiatives pioneered by our Utilities 
Excellence team. More than 200 metric tons 
CO2e annual reduction were realized by 
installing a boiler oxygen management system 
in our three steam boilers. This increased 
boiler efficiency by 3%, by controlling excess 
oxygen and fuel ratio to increase percentage 
of complete combustion. Another project to 
upgrade cooling-tower fins, louvres and  
in-fills resulted in an annual reduction of about 
250 metric tons CO 2e.
To reduce safety and supply chain risk, one 
of our facilities in Peru switched from using 
liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) to feed the 
boilers, kitchen and laboratory workstations 
to instead supply with natural gas. This switch 
also resulted in a financial saving, plus an 
environmental benefit of an annual GHG 
emission reduction of about 20 metric tons. 
13 A method that estimates emissions for goods and services based 
on the mass or other relevant units of goods and services purchased 
multiplied by relevant secondary emission factors.Disclosing Climate-Related Risks 
and Strategies 
The Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) outlines 
how companies should report on 
climate-related risks and mitigation 
strategies and covers four core elements: 
• • Governance
• • Strategy
• • Risk management
• • Metrics and targets
It includes recommended disclosures 
that companies should make for each 
area. Our EHS Governance team 
monitors emerging climate-related 
trends and regulations to analyze 
potential business impacts, understand 
risk exposure and develop appropriate 
mitigation strategies. 
Our TCFD index at the back of this 
report details our disclosures in full;  
we also share information in our latest 
CDP Climate Change Disclosure 
Response and the Energy and Emissions 
section of this report. The environmental 
metrics we track and report against are 
available from page 93.Powering Our Facilities Renewably 
We are committed to purchasing a greater 
proportion of electricity from renewable 
sources and are developing a Renewable 
Energy Procurement initiative to drive 
continuous improvement in this area. In 2021, 
we purchased 190 million kWh of low-carbon 
and renewable energy, resulting in savings of 
80,000 metric tons of CO 2e. In addition, we 
also generated 1.8 million kWh from solar 
installations at eight of our sites. 
Increasingly Green Transport 
We have established a range of initiatives to 
manage fuel consumption in our commercial 
fleet as well as the fuel consumption during 
employee commuting. These include 
establishing increasingly robust requirements 
for vehicle fuel efficiency, providing on-site 
electric vehicle charging stations, promoting 
car-sharing and, where possible, public 
transportation use.
Bringing Greater Clarity to 
Scope 3 Emissions 
To expand understanding of Scope 3 emissions, 
we partnered with an external consultant to 
update our calculation methodology. This 
included assessing our supplier-affiliated Scope 3 
categories to identify priority sourcing categories 
for transitioning to an average-data calculation method.13 Through the exercise, we have 
updated the emission calculation methodology 
for 47% of our carbon-intensive categories, 
resulting in a more accurate, representative 2020 
Scope 3 baseline recalculation.
See page 93 for a detailed breakdown of our 
emissions and energy metrics. 
Lighting Our Facilities Sustainably 
Upgrading sites to LED lighting is one of the 
ways we are mitigating CO 2e emissions. In 
2021, several facilities made the switch to 
LEDs throughout the year, most notably our 
site in South Carolina, where approximately 
240 light fixtures were upgraded across the 
various production areas. Taken together, this 
switch will result in annual financial savings 
of over $16,500 and energy savings of over 
187 ,100 kWh. 
5% 
ABSOLUTE REDUCTION  
in Scope 1 and 2 emissions (vs. 2018)
17%
REDUCTION  
in Scope 1 and 2 emissions  
(vs. 2020, normalized to sales)
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ENVIRONMENT
45Protecting Water Resources
OUR IMPACT 
Wherever we use and discharge water we 
work to minimize the impact we have on 
the quality and quantity of local sources. We 
establish initiatives that address the most 
pressing local needs — whether that’s quality, 
quantity or other concerns for those who rely 
on this precious natural resource. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
Our Water Footprint
We perform an annual mapping process to 
understand where the water we use comes 
from, how it is treated and discharged, and the 
impacts our operations have on local basins. 
Most of our sites discharge water to municipal 
treatment plants before release to the 
environment. Those that treat water on-site 
and discharge it directly to the environment 
are required to meet relevant local regulations.
Where possible, we reduce withdrawals by 
recycling and reusing water. Since 2017 , we 
have measured how much water is recycled 
on-site14 and how it is recycled or reused. 
14 We define water recycling as the act of processing used water and 
wastewater through an additional operating cycle(s) before treatment 
and discharge.We recognize the importance of water in 
sustaining life, human health, economic 
growth and ecosystems. Water also plays 
a critical role in our business continuity, 
manufacturing operations and product 
use. As such, we are committed to 
managing our water use efficiently 
and responsibly, contributing toward 
the goal of facilitating access to good 
quality water in the communities where 
we operate. OUR 2021 WATER FOOTPRINT
77.5% Municipal water
0.2% Rainwater collected on-site17.5% Water consumed in process
70.0% Water treated by municipality
12.5% Water returned to environment
22.3% Fresh surface and groundwater
<0.01% Water from raw materials8.01% On-site recycled water 
is used for facility applications 
and not in productIN OUT
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ENVIRONMENT
46OUR FRAMEWORK FOR CONTEXT-BASED WATER-RISK ASSESSMENTS Tailoring Our Management Approach 
As a member of the Alliance for Water 
Stewardship (AWS) and with the support of 
World Resources Institute (WRI) resources, 
we have developed a comprehensive approach 
to water management, tailoring how we 
mitigate risks and ensure business continuity 
to local circumstances. 
Our process centers around four principles:
• • Reduce: continuously work to improve 
water use efficiency in our operations
• • Prevent: manage water discharges that 
could adversely impact human health or 
the environment
• • Engage: develop and apply key water 
management principles and best practices 
across our company
• • Educate: emphasize to our employees and 
suppliers the importance of protecting 
groundwater and other water resources 
vulnerable to overuse or contamination, 
and the role they play in doing so
These principles are communicated through our 
Position Statement on Access to Clean Water 
and internal Water Use Guidelines. Managing Water Risks
Our water management technical 
standard helps monitor Abbott’s impact 
on resources in communities where we 
operate. Any manufacturing or research and 
development (R&D) site with high water-use 
requirements15 — as well as those in water-
stressed areas — must implement management 
plans and targets for mitigating risks. 
Significant water users must also engage key 
local stakeholders to fully understand water-
related risks.
Abbott sites are evaluated annually for 
resilience, using WRI AqueductTM — a global 
water-risk mapping tool — to analyze local 
water stress and evaluate against our internal 
water use intensity. The assessment also 
highlights our company-wide level of risk and, 
today, shows our overall exposure to chronic 
physical risks is limited. 
Read more about how we manage water risks 
in our CDP Water Disclosure Response .
Baseline Water Stress
 Annual Water Use Intensity +
High Water Impact Sites =  
water-stressed + medium-high and  
above water-depletion
High water use =  
Level 1 + water stewardship certification +
Water-stressed
High water use = Level 1  
Medium-low water use = Level 2  
Minimal water use = Level 3 +
Not water-stressed
High water use = Level 1  
Medium, low, minimal  
water use = Level 3 +
LEVEL 1
• • Evaluate local water risks
• • Identify opportunities to mitigate  
water-related risk
• • Engage local stakeholders 
• • Set and track water targetsLEVEL 2
• • Evaluate local water risks
• • Identify opportunities to mitigate  
water-related risk
• • Set and track water targetsLEVEL 3  
• • No additional water mitigation 
measures beyond complying 
with internal and external water 
management standardsLevel of water mitigation descriptionEvaluating water stress and use intensity to determine site water-risk profiles
15 Water use of over 50 million gallons per year.
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ENVIRONMENT
47from our cooling towers in the site toilets and 
irrigation system.
Our efforts in Spain — where we operate 
in a water-stressed area — are even more 
substantial. We have achieved significant 
reductions in both water use and wastewater 
production by installing a second RO water 
purification system. By increasing capacity to 
recover and treat 70% of water rejected by the 
first RO system, across 2020 and 2021 we saved 
over 8 million gallons of water. Additionally, by 
reducing well water consumption by 11%, the 
site has also achieved notable energy savings 
of 12,800 kWh every year — and avoided 
approximately 3.7 metric tons of CO 2e.
Read more about our emission reductions on 
page 43 . 
Identifying Supply Chain Focus Points 
In addition to addressing direct water impacts, 
by 2030 we aim to work with 50 key suppliers 
in high water-stressed areas to reduce quality 
and quantity risks in our supply chain. In 2021, 
we performed an assessment to identify key 
suppliers to further engage on efforts. Read 
more about this on page 72 . 
Additional details of 2021 water stewardship 
efforts are available in our latest CDP Water 
response . 
See page 104 for a detailed breakdown of our 
water metrics.Innovating to Save Water
In one of our U.S. nutrition plants, our Energy 
Center operators identified a solution that 
could save millions of gallons of soft water from 
being sent down the drain each year. 
The operator noticed that condensate probes 
in our cooling systems required a constant 
water supply to bring temperatures down to 
a registerable range. In response, work is now 
underway to replace the probes with alternatives 
that can withstand higher temperatures of 
steam condensate, eliminating the need for 
cooling water. 
The first phase of the project will save the site 
approximately 3.2 million gallons of soft water 
and 106,000 gallons of make-up water. We 
received capital project funds to complete 
a second phase, adding six additional high-
temperature probes to our system. These new 
probes will allow continuous monitoring of our 
six largest condensate return legs, saving an 
estimated additional 200,000 gallons of  
make-up water per year with annual savings  
of $2,800.
Overall, the improvements will save the site 
approximately 3.5 million gallons of water per 
year, a 2% reduction in water intake. The overall 
economic impact of both phases of the project 
totals $27,000 in annual savings.OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
Foundational elements have been set to 
support future water stewardship certification 
and management practices. 
Water Stewardship Certification 
We aim to achieve water stewardship 
certification at all high water impact 
manufacturing sites in water-stressed regions. 
In 2021, 25 of our manufacturing sites were 
identified as operating in areas of water stress. 
Of those, 48% used less than 15 million gallons 
of water while nine sites were deemed high 
impact considering basin water stress, basin 
water depletion level and water usage. Aligned 
with our context-based approach and based 
on the potential for these sites to significantly 
impact local communities, we have targeted 
them for AWS water stewardship certification. 
Alignment with the standard is intended to 
achieve five main outcomes: 
• • Good water governance
• • Sustainable water balance
• • Good water quality status 
• • Important water-related areas 
• • Safe water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH)
We have established a Community of 
Practice for our nine High Water Impact 
Sites to support progress toward AWS water 
stewardship certification. Strategic roadmaps 
highlight key steps for achieving certification.Water Stewardship Management Practices 
We will implement accredited water 
stewardship management practices in more 
than 75% of all manufacturing sites operating in 
water-stressed regions by 2030. In 2021, we set 
this in motion for 16 sites identified as being in 
water-stressed areas not classified as being high 
water impact. While these sites have less impact 
than our high water impact facilities, it is also 
important for them to adopt water stewardship 
practices that support achievement of the 
outcomes described above. 
Draft accredited water stewardship practices 
are currently under expert review. They will 
be finalized in 2022 alongside a supporting 
guidance document. The new Community of 
Practice will help sites stay on track through 
quarterly reporting and act as a resource for 
shared learning between facilities.
Water-Saving Solutions
Total water intake in 2021 rose by 
approximately 4% versus the previous year — 
a result of increased production in 2021. When 
adjusted for sales, water intake decreased 16% 
compared to 2020. Nonetheless, we continually 
look for ways to reduce absolute withdrawals — 
with a particular focus on those facilities in 
water-stressed areas. In Minnesota, low-flow 
faucets and fixtures have been installed, saving 
the site 73,000 gallons in a single year. In Costa 
Rica, we are reducing reliance on groundwater 
by harvesting rainwater and reusing water 
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
48
ENVIRONMENT
Waste Management
OUR IMPACT 
If not carefully managed, raw material 
extraction depletes natural resources, while 
waste production and use of potentially 
hazardous chemicals present contamination 
risks. We maintain a robust approach to 
managing and reducing our waste footprint. 
At the same time, we ensure everyone at 
Abbott responsible for working with waste in 
manufacturing is trained in handling materials 
safely and mitigating negative impacts. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
Our responsibility for the impact of our 
products and services extends throughout the 
entire life cycle.
• • Procurement  
We ensure operational inputs — e.g., raw 
materials, processed goods and services — 
are procured ethically and sustainably.
• • Design, Production and Distribution 
We consider the environmental and social 
impacts of how we produce and deliver 
our products.
• • Consumption  
We ensure products can be consumed  
and disposed of in environmentally 
responsible ways.Waste Generated in 2021 Waste to Beneficial Use in 2021
7% production waste1% cafeteria compost
6% production byproduct1% corrugate and cardboard
5% wood 11% other 
65% nutrition byproduct 4% construction and demolition24.4% landfill
50.1% recycled 1.6% other 5.1% incinerated 
(without energy 
recovery)
18.8% incinerated (with energy recovery)Each stage of a product’s life cycle has 
potential impacts on human health and 
the environment — from how materials 
are harvested to how final products 
and services are consumed. We believe 
waste management responsibility extends 
beyond the manufacturing phase and we 
are committed to staying accountable for 
impacts at each point of a product’s journey. Our Operational Waste Footprint 
Responsibly handling the waste we create 
is a central tenet of Abbott’s commitment to 
extended waste management responsibility. 
Our ultimate aim is to “design out” waste 
and minimize consumption of raw materials. 
We are working to extract additional value 
from waste and materials through processes 
such as incineration for energy, recycling and 
beneficial use.16 Mapping our operational 
waste footprint brings greater clarity to what 
we have achieved to date and where we need 
to improve. 
16 Abbott defines beneficial-use activities as sending material that 
otherwise would have been waste off-site to be used as an effective 
substitute for a commercial product or commodity. Beneficial-use 
material is used as is or in substantially the same form as it was generated.76,490  
U.S. TONS118,970  
U.S. TONS
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
49
ENVIRONMENT
finding responsible and economical ways to 
reduce the volume of waste we produce and 
ensure effective disposal practices. At the 
same time, we are innovating our processes to 
maximize resource recovery. 
The standard governing of our practices 
applies to both hazardous and nonhazardous 
waste, as well as our beneficial-use activities. 
It specifies a range of waste management 
strategies, including: 
• Preventive maintenance and process design 
to eliminate waste generation • Process waste reduction through 
diagnosing and fixing problems that would 
otherwise result in waste generation 
• Reducing waste through product design, 
material input and purchasing decisions 
• Partnering across other value chains to 
promote beneficial use 
• Ensuring proper waste material segregation 
• Recycling and incinerating with   
energy recovery Closing the Loop on Operational Waste
By 2030, we plan to implement a circular 
economy approach to reduce waste, aiming 
to achieve and maintain at least a 90% waste 
diversion rate.17 In 2021, we reached an 88.5% 
rate by diverting 61% of materials to beneficial 
use, and a further 27 .6% away from incineration 
without energy recovery and landfill.
To keep resources in use for as long as possible, 
we are designing for sustainability, eliminating 
material use and reducing how much we send 
to landfill every year. We are committed to 
17 Abbott diversion rate is calculated as follows: (Total Waste 
+ Beneficial Use - Landfilled and Incineration Without Energy 
Recovery)/Total Waste and Beneficial UseManaging Hazardous and  
Chemical Waste
We are prioritizing reducing the proportion 
of waste classified as hazardous (around 
11.2% of our 2021 waste footprint). The 
waste management standard we follow 
details requirements for storing, segregating, 
labeling and documenting hazardous and 
chemical waste, and for decontaminating 
biohazardous waste prior to final disposal. 
It also requires that all Abbott employees 
and contract workers who work with 
waste complete annual training before 
undertaking responsibility for hazardous 
waste management. Manufacturing sites 
that produce over 1,200 kilograms of 
hazardous waste annually require audits of 
waste management firms at least every five 
years. This is guided by our Waste Vendor 
Assessment program. 
We are committed to developing and tracking 
waste diversion initiatives for key suppliers 
too. Read more about this on page 73 . 
MANUFACTURE
NATURAL  
RESOURCES88.5%
TRASH
11.5%RecycleRefurbish and remanufacture
Reuse and redistribute
Maintenance
Working to Close the Loop on Waste
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
50
ENVIRONMENT
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE 
Waste production did increase in 2021 due 
to increased production, as well as a rise in 
construction waste from expansion projects to 
allow for production growth. When adjusted for 
sales, waste production decreased 8.6% versus 
2020. We continue to identify opportunities to 
divert materials from landfill, and advance the 
Zero Waste-to-Landfill initiative we launched 
in 2012. In 2021, seven manufacturing facilities 
and one non-manufacturing facility received 
Zero Waste-to-Landfill certification, bringing 
our total number of facilities certified through 
this program to 38 manufacturing and eight 
non-manufacturing facilities. 
One of our facilities in Norway developed a 
great cross-functional Waste Management team 
that is very active. The site demonstrated the 
following key elements of a successful waste 
management program:
• • Senior Leadership buy-in and site-level 
support of the program
• • Clear lines of responsibility for 
waste management, including 
ongoing communications on waste 
management performance
• • Initial and ongoing training and supporting 
Standard Operating Procedure for 
waste management• • Excellent recordkeeping and interaction 
with current vendor to allow for higher 
levels of waste management
• • Ongoing site-wide communications on 
waste management performance
• • Proactive program that continues to focus 
on capturing more value from waste
• • At the time of audit, the site was maintaining 
a diversion rate of 100% (no waste sent to 
landfill or incineration without energy) thus 
effectively capturing value from waste
Each facility tailors waste management initiatives 
to address its most pressing issues, following the 
principles of reduce, reuse and recycle. 
Reduce 
At both the Abbott Park corporate 
headquarters and Core Diagnostics operations 
in Illinois, we started an initiative in March 
2021 to reduce waste generation from these 
sites by sending baled corrugated cardboard to 
a third party for beneficial use. The cardboard 
is used as cellulose insulation for homes and 
commercial buildings. While pushing the 
management of this material further up the 
waste hierarchy increased our overall costs 
rather than providing cost savings, it resulted 
in a waste reduction of nearly 200 U.S. tons 
(193.5 U.S. tons) for these locations in 2021. We are continuing this initiative after 2021 and 
project over 200 U.S. tons of baled corrugated 
cardboard will be sent to the third party for 
beneficial use every year going forward. 
Reuse 
In Costa Rica, our team is finding ways to reuse 
Gaylord shipping containers, cutting both waste 
production and costs associated with product 
distribution. For health and safety purposes, 
containers have historically been used once. 
However, our studies found that, with proper 
sterilization methods, each container could 
be used twice before being disposed of. The 
team is now in the process of transitioning to 
multi-use, updating procedures for handling 
the shipping containers and assessing their 
condition prior to reuse. 
Recycle 
In one of our U.S. nutrition plants, prior to 
COVID-19, fiber drums were sent to an external 
partner for beneficial reuse (resale). During 
the pandemic, these vendor activities slowed, 
resulting in the accumulation of fiber drums 
at our on-site Recycle Center. In response, 
we invested in a dechimer machine to break 
drums down into their cardboard and metal 
components so each can be recycled. In 
2021, about 13.7 U.S. tons of fiber drums were processed by the dechimer, and this investment 
prevented surplus drums from being sent 
for incineration. In addition, now that fiber 
drums are back to being sent to an external 
partner for beneficial use, we are still using the 
dechimer to break down lower-quality drums 
that the vendor cannot take, which will result 
in an estimated 4.8 U.S. tons per year increase 
in recycling, and corresponding decrease in 
incineration, of fiber drums. 
See page 107 for a detailed breakdown of our 
waste metrics. 
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ENVIRONMENT
51Packaging
Packaging is key to ensuring our life-
saving solutions are delivered safely to 
those who need them. To achieve our 
2030 goals, we continually assess our 
design and manufacturing processes, 
identifying novel ways to develop 
packaging solutions that protect both 
their contents and the planet.
OUR IMPACT 
We recognize the impact our packaging has 
on the environment in the form of resource 
use, related emissions and waste production. 
We are rethinking how we design packaging 
to optimize material use and keep materials in 
circulation for as long as possible. To reduce 
our raw material burden, we are optimizing 
efficiency by minimizing the volume and 
weight of our packaging. We are also 
employing circularity principles to incorporate 
increased quantities of recycled content and 
designing for recyclability, reusability and 
increasingly positive impact. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
We want to design our packaging with 
sustainability in mind. Many Abbott functions 
collaborate to help ensure sustainability 
considerations are prioritized during product 
and packaging design and manufacture.
Each division has provided projections for 
the next decade of packaging projects. Our 
Sustainable Packaging Council has designed a 
database for reporting progress against these 
projections, supporting more efficient tracking 
of our target. 
Guiding Principles of Sustainable Packaging 
To address 50 million pounds of packaging 
through high-impact sustainable design 
programs, we need a plan of action. Our 
Sustainable Packaging Guiding Principles — 
recently created by the Sustainable Packaging 
Council — inform changes to existing 
packaging and target new designs that integrate 
sustainability from the very beginning. The Sustainable Packaging Guiding 
Principles are:
Optimize Material Efficiency
• • Eliminate unnecessary components 
• • Reduce packaging materials
Employ Circularity Principles
• • Replace problematic materials 
• • Design for disassembly 
• • Design for recyclability 
• • Design for reuse 
• • Utilize renewable materials  
• • Integrate recycled content
Balance All Aspects of Packaging  
Systems Holistically
• • Optimize cube efficiency 
• • Provide consumer direction 
• • Improve carbon footprintWorking With Suppliers
We’re working with suppliers to create lower 
impact packaging that supports our circular 
economy approach. Together, we identify 
solutions that either eliminate packaging 
materials supplied to us or ensure those we 
do receive can be reused in manufacturing 
processes. This includes optimizing design 
to reduce material use — particularly 
plastics — improving shipping efficiencies, 
increasing fiber-based packaging sustainability 
and introducing reusable options. We are 
also working to develop packaging take-
back initiatives. Read more about supplier 
partnerships on page 73 . 
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE 
Through adoption and socialization of 
the 2030 packaging goal, a list of high-
impact packaging projects was developed 
and prioritized, and the projected benefits 
quantified. Implementation of these projects 
will contribute to achieving our goal on time.Same Packaging, Fewer Materials 
One way we’re reducing our packaging 
footprint is by finding solutions to do 
more with less. We recently launched 
the first phase of a project to reduce 
plastic use in blister packaging for our 
acetaminophen product. 
Through the project, we are reducing 
packaging specifications from a starting 
thickness of 250 micron of plastic to 
220 micron. The result is a 16.2 metric 
ton reduction in material use with 
associated savings of $93,000 annually. 
NEARLY
300,000
pounds of packaging reduced 
in 2021 through optimizing 
material efficiency
NEARLY
15,000
pounds impacted in 2021 through 
employing circularity principles
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ENVIRONMENT
52Optimizing Materials Use 
In 2021, several projects were implemented to 
reduce packaging size while retaining the same  
level of protection. 
To increase the efficiency of our Core Diagnostics 
Alinity platform, engineers identified an opportunity 
to improve packaging design through carton size 
reductions for Alinity I and Alinity C products. Based 
on the portfolio conversion, these changes are 
predicted to have a 2022 sustainability impact of:
• • 170 fewer truckloads from Abbott 
manufacturing sites to the distribution center 
• • 240,000 pound reduction in total carton weight 
• • 56,000 pound reduction in total shipper weight
• • 270 loaded shipping containers removed from 
the global distribution network
A similar initiative was identified for our Sigma 
Strong ARCHITECT Clinical Chemistry product 
line. By implementing more appropriately sized 
packaging options for assays, we have significantly 
increased efficiency for material use, and product 
transportation and storage. In 2021 alone, 3,000 
pounds of packaging materials were eliminated  
while transport requirements were cut by 30%.
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
53
ENVIRONMENT
Responsible Sourcing and Product Stewardship
For Abbott to be truly sustainable, we must 
consider the wider effects of our products. 
This is why we work with key value chain 
partners to address product stewardship at 
every step of the product life cycle. 
OUR IMPACT 
Some of our products and packaging may 
contain hazardous chemicals and/or conflict 
minerals. We continuously monitor these 
materials in our supply chain and operations 
to ensure we are complying with relevant 
regulations and minimizing negative outcomes. 
Other supply chain activities — including how 
raw materials are produced and transported — 
contribute to global emissions, waste 
production and animal welfare issues. We 
partner closely with key suppliers to identify 
alternative, more responsible approaches. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
To identify and mitigate the environmental 
impacts of our packaging and products 
throughout their life cycles — and at every 
stage of the value chain — relevant teams must 
work together. Our Product Stewardship, 
Supply Chain, R&D, Engineering and EHS 
groups partner closely to analyze how and 
what we source. 
Strategic sourcing initiatives are described in 
the Supply Chain section of this report on  
page 70 . 
Product Stewardship 
Product stewardship focuses on minimizing 
use of hazardous chemicals and substances 
of concern, and carefully managing critical 
materials in products, packaging and 
manufacturing processes to ensure compliance 
with applicable regulations. It stretches 
from design through end of life, promoting a 
circular economy approach to our products. Each business conducts assessments of new 
and changed products for substances of 
concern, or restricted and critical materials. 
Risk assessments are prepared whenever these 
substances are identified. We then evaluate: 
• • Whether continued use can be justified 
• • The value of use versus reformulation 
• • Any potential compliance issues 
The evaluation also serves as an opportunity 
to research suitable alternatives and how 
they could impact product performance and 
cost. Recommendations for next steps contain 
justification for substance use, product  
support strategies and a business risk 
monitoring plan. These are all reviewed by 
business management. 
18 A Form SD is an Exchange Act Form used to satisfy special 
disclosure requirements implemented under the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.We continuously monitor the regulatory 
landscape and any change to hazardous 
chemical requirements. Our Corporate 
Product Stewardship organization holds 
regular forums for informing all areas of our 
company about the potential business impacts 
these changes could have. Our enhanced 
regulatory intelligence process helps ensure 
potential impacts are identified in a timely 
manner. It also follows actions taken at the 
business level to confirm we remain compliant. 
Our product stewardship program tracks and 
addresses hazardous chemical legislation 
and supports the implementation of due 
diligence on conflict minerals. We offer 
product stewardship training on hazardous 
chemical legislation and conflict minerals to all 
relevant teams, including R&D, Supply Chain, 
Procurement and EHS.Hazardous Chemicals and 
Conflict Minerals 
Hazardous chemicals are those that 
pose a risk to human health and 
the environment. Responding to 
regulations on them is key to our 
product stewardship program and 
impacts how our products can be 
used, recycled and disposed of. We 
ensure the marketing and sale of 
our products comply with current 
regulations, not just those in place at 
the time of product development.
Conflict minerals include tantalum, 
tin, tungsten and gold — also known as 
3TG minerals. We have a robust due 
diligence process for understanding 
sourcing and use of them in our 
products and supply chain. We file 
an annual Form SD18 and Conflict 
Minerals report each year with 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission (available on our website ). 
We are a member of the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative and use its 
Reporting Template to survey suppliers 
on conflict materials. This is supported 
by an automated analysis tool that 
assesses risk in our supply chain. 
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ENVIRONMENT
54ALIGNING WITH REGULATIONS 
Regulations under federal and state 
environmental laws impose strict limitations 
on emissions and discharges to the 
environment from various manufacturing 
operations. We believe our operations comply 
in all material respects with applicable 
laws and regulations covering areas of 
environmental protection. All relevant 
employees receive training in our standards 
and changing regulatory requirements while 
a comprehensive audit program monitors 
compliance and helps identify potential risks 
to our business and employees.
Established external standards are a useful 
tool in guiding our efforts and we pursue 
certification where relevant. We consider 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) certification when building 
new facilities, and have certified 19 projects 
under the LEED standards, including Environmental Investment and Compliance 
one platinum, six gold and six silver 
certifications. We also consider external 
certification — like International Organization 
for Standardization (ISO) — where it adds 
business value. By the end of 2021, 52% 
of manufacturing sites under Abbott’s 
operational control have been certified under 
ISO 14001 – Environmental Management 
and/or ISO 50001 – Energy Management 
standards. These sites represent 68% of our 
manufacturing site square footage.
ENVIRONMENTAL 
EXPENDITURES 
Abbott believes that its operations comply 
in all material respects with applicable laws 
and regulations concerning environmental 
protection. Regulations under federal, state 
and various other countries’ environmental 
laws impose stringent limitations on emissions 
and discharges to the environment from 
various manufacturing operations.
Abbott’s capital and operating expenditures 
for pollution control in 2021 were not material 
and are not expected to be material in 2022.We compile data on capital and operating 
expenditures related to environmental 
matters from all sites where this spending is 
over $1 million. In 2021, these sites reported 
operating expenditures for pollution control 
of approximately $40 million and capital 
expenditures for the same purpose of 
approximately $10 million. 
Abbott has been identified as one of 
many potentially responsible parties in 
investigations and/or remediations at several 
locations in the U.S., including Puerto Rico, 
under the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 
commonly known as Superfund. Abbott is 
also engaged in remediation at several other 
sites, some of which are owned by Abbott, 
in cooperation with the Environmental 
Protection Agency or similar agencies. 
While it is not feasible to predict with certainty 
the final costs related to those investigations 
and remediation activities, Abbott believes that 
such costs, together with other expenditures 
to maintain compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations concerning environmental 
protection, should not have a material adverse 
effect on Abbott’s financial position, cash flows 
or results of operations.Our right to operate relies on compliance 
with relevant laws and regulations. This 
includes those related to environmental 
impacts. We work diligently to ensure we 
operate in accordance with requirements. 2021 Environmental Certifications
Total ISO 50001: 2018 AND/OR 14001:2015 Sites Certified 66
Total ISO 14001: 2015 Certifications 49
Total ISO 14001: 2015 Manufacturing Sites Certified 41
Total ISO 14001: 2015 Nonmanufacturing Sites Certified 8
Total ISO 50001: 2018 Certifications 29
Total ISO 50001: 2018 Manufacturing Sites Certified 17
Total ISO 50001: 2018 Nonmanufacturing Sites Certified 12
DATA WORKFORCE SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
55
ENVIRONMENT
  
QUALITY   
MANAGEMENT
ABBOTT PEOPLE PLEDGE TO:
LISTEN TO  
learn from and deeply understand those we serve 
better than anyone else, ensuring we always 
meet their needs ALWAYS ANTICIPATE  
and adapt what we do — and how we do it — to 
continuously exceed our customers’ expectations 
and stay relevant to their livesOUR CUSTOMER PLEDGE
At Abbott, we all put the people we serve at the center of 
everything we do. We make our products and services as if 
they are for our own families. We live Abbott’s purpose of 
creating a healthier world where everyone can have better, 
fuller lives. We know that every one of us plays a vital role 
in bringing our life-changing solutions around the globe to 
people who need them.
HOLD OURSELVES 
ACCOUNTABLE  
to our values and the highest standards in 
everything we do — because that’s what we 
would expect for our own families
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 QUALITY AND SAFETY
56require animal safety and efficacy data for 
many Abbott products, and we have an ethical 
obligation to explore potential health benefits 
and risks before they’re used by patients. 
We are developing testing to eliminate the 
need for animal models where feasible. When 
animal tests are required, we strive to reduce 
their number and frequency. We follow the 
3Rs approach to adopting alternatives:
• • Replace the need for animal testing through 
non-animal research methods
• • Reduce the number of animals used to the 
minimum necessary for valid results
• • Refine experimental procedures to avoid or 
minimize pain and distress
Our laboratory-animal research programs and 
facilities meet or exceed relevant regulations 
in countries where we operate. 
When human clinical studies commence, we 
conduct them in line with all relevant laws and 
regulations. Explore how we conduct clinical 
trials in our SASB Index. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 
Abbott manufactures products at 90 sites 
globally, crossing many jurisdictions and 
involving oversight from over 100 quality 
and regulatory agencies. Product quality 
and safety are paramount for Abbott; we 
embed considerations from the highest levels 
of governance and throughout our entire 
business. Global oversight sits with our Senior 
Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory 
and Engineering Services, who reports 
directly to our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
and Chairman of the Board. In each Abbott 
business, quality and regulatory leaders are 
responsible for the quality systems specific 
to their business and update each Abbott 
business president on progress. The Board’s 
Public Policy Committee regularly reviews 
quality metrics, inspection findings, industry 
progress and emerging issues.Product Quality
Senior quality, regulatory and operations 
leaders meet at least quarterly to maintain 
quality systems with quality performance 
indicators, global industry standards and key 
market regulations. Our systems are agile to 
respond to and maintain compliance with 
changing regulations, such as:
• • EU Medical Devices Regulation (effective 
May 26, 2021) 
• • EU In Vitro Diagnostics Regulation 
(effective May 26, 2022) 
• • Swiss Medical Devices Ordinance (MedDO) 
(effective May 26, 2021)
• • China Order 739 (effective June 1, 2021)
Our quality framework helps ensure 
compliance with regulatory requirements in 
every country where we operate.
OUR 3R APPROACH TO 
ANIMAL RESEARCH 
Abbott is committed to minimizing use of 
animals in research and maintaining the 
highest humane care standards while meeting 
regulatory requirements. The U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulators People depend on Abbott products to 
improve their lives; we must build and 
retain their trust, so delivering high-
quality, safe products is always our 
number one priority. 
ROBUST GOVERNANCE 
TRANSPARENT REPORTING
Global and business-
specific quality 
management systems
External and 
internal audits and 
assessments 
Quality assurance, training 
and certificationUp-to-date 
codes, policies and 
procedures Strict supplier 
expectationsDetailed research 
and clinical trials
EMBEDDED 
QUALITY 
SYSTEM
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
57
QUALITY AND SAFETY
Robust Post-Market Surveillance 
Our Global Post-Market Surveillance (PMS) system helps ensure the highest 
quality and safety in marketed device and diagnostic products. It sets a global 
standard while supporting product-by-product monitoring. While we already 
maintain best-in-class, on-time medical device reporting (MDR), in 2021, 
our Quality and Regulatory team established a Human Error and Reliability 
Optimization project to target continual progress. The project introduces measures 
to address behaviors that can contribute to human error, including:
• • Examining current factors to assure on-time reporting
• •  Categorizing these identified factors
• • Developing in-depth investigation tools based on these categories
• • Establishing a solution matrix to proactively address issues
• • Implementing a Case Reference Catalog to record learnings and support 
development of corrective and preventative actions 
Through this process, we will strive to achieve 100% on-time MDR across Abbott, 
ensuring regulatory compliance.
Additionally, our Pharmaceuticals business uses a single pharmacovigilance (PV) 
system for marketed products to monitor worldwide safety reports and ensure 
disclosures to relevant authorities. Information is collected on suspected adverse 
reactions through a global database, with each case investigated and communicated 
to relevant health authorities. This system is regularly reviewed by senior 
management while training is provided to support understanding among branded 
generic medicine division employees.
Quality management decisions are made following product-specific safety 
surveillance based on predefined, risk-based criteria and applicable local legislation. Quality Management System 
Abbott has implemented a Quality System 
Manual, based on established regulations and 
industry standards, which governs the specific 
quality framework for each Abbott business 
and division. The system is implemented 
at a global level and incorporated into each 
division and site. The Quality System elements 
encompass the entire product life cycle — 
from research and development, clinical 
studies and product design through risk 
management, material, production and process 
controls and right up to distribution and post-
market surveillance. 
The Quality Management System model and 
metrics are continuously reviewed to track 
performance at site, business and company 
levels. Key learnings and best practices, 
including those from external intelligence, 
are captured and applied elsewhere in our 
organization. Where performance changes 
are identified, we analyze root causes and take 
necessary corrective action. In targeted use 
cases, we apply machine learning to enhance 
predictions of potential risks. 
Each operating business maintains Quality 
Management Systems and performs audits in 
line with governing regulations. Audits from 
the corporate level are also conducted. The 
results of all quality surveillance activities, 
which are well documented, feed into 
continuous improvement initiatives.Engaging Suppliers on Quality
Our suppliers play a key role in our product 
quality and safety. A comprehensive, risk-
based program ensures those that impact 
our regulated products and/or Quality 
Management System conform to predefined 
quality requirements. 
We require suppliers to have a documented 
Quality Management System that is 
commensurate with the products and services 
that they provide to Abbott. Continuous 
monitoring measures suppliers against 
minimum performance criteria. Suppliers are 
classified according to risk level of potential 
impacts; evaluation frequency is determined 
based on this, ranging between every two 
(high-risk) and four (low-risk) years. Read 
about how we categorize suppliers for 
sustainability risks on page 67 . 
Evaluations provide evidence that suppliers can 
deliver to our requirements, maintain adequate 
Quality Management System elements and 
conform business and process capabilities to 
relevant regulations and Abbott standards. On-
site audits and additional agreements for high-
risk partners confirm operational capabilities 
and Quality Management System requirements. 
We collaborate and partner with key  
suppliers to continuously improve product 
quality and safety.Assuring Commercial Quality 
Commercial quality assurance (QA) ensures 
supply chain processes maintain product 
quality and compliance. Suppliers are expected 
to maintain management systems, training and 
competency programs, facilitating continual 
improvement and ensuring compliance 
with our guidelines. We require that 
suppliers provide evidence of any employee 
training performed.
The One Abbott QA initiative establishes 
common management procedures for: 
• • Organization and professional development 
• • Operational excellence 
• • Customer satisfaction 
• • Supply chain assurance 
Through our One Abbott approach, we have 
aligned our systems for managing suppliers, 
documentation, warehouse controls, 
distribution controls, nonconformance  
and corrective and preventive action (CAPA). 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
58
QUALITY AND SAFETY
• • ISO 9001, ISO 13485, ISO 14001, ISO 17025, ISO 22000 and ISO 90013
• • NSF (National Sanitation Foundation) International 
• • GMP+ FSA (Good Manufacturing Practices Plus and Food Safety Assurance) 
• • FSMA (Food Safety Modernization Act)
• • FSSC 22000 
• • Safety Assurance Certification 
• • HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points)
• • Halal
• • QAI (Quality Assurance International)
• • Organic Certification
• • Kosher 
• • Class A Certification
• • SQF (Safe Quality Food) 
• • IEC (International Electrotechnical Commission)
• • ASQ
• • AAMI (Association for the Advancement  
of Medical Instrumentation)
• • CLSI (Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute)
• • ASTM International
• • ISPE (International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering)
• • ASME (American Society of Mechanical Engineers)
• • IPCQuality Excellence Aligned With Recognized 
Standards and Organizations19Developing Employees 
New employees are trained on Quality 
Management System elements, while existing 
employees are systemically retrained. Topics 
include data analytics, cleanroom qualification, 
risk management and documentation controls. 
Annually, a Quality Management System 
Refresher course is updated and deployed to 
all existing and part-time personnel. In 2021, 
new trainings were available on: 
• • Human Reliability and Human  
Reliability Tools for Corrective and 
Preventive Action
• • Product Risk Management
• • Laboratory Testing and Controls
Additionally, all employees with product  
quality responsibilities benefit from:
• • Good Manufacturing Training offerings at  
the business level• • Corporate-level quality courses, many in 
multiple languages, on topics including:
 –Complaint Handling 
 –Clinical Practices 
 –Data Integrity
 –Document and Change Control
 –Product Design and Development
Each business offers division- and site-specific 
trainings, tailored through a review of our 
current offering, inspection outcomes, training 
requirements and emerging industry issues. 
In 2021, 42 employees were newly qualified 
through the American Society for Quality 
(ASQ) and Regulatory Affairs Professionals 
Society (RAPS) for certifications including 
Quality Engineer, Quality Auditor, Manager of 
Quality/Organizational Excellence, Six Sigma 
Black Belt and Regulatory Affairs. This brings 
the total number of certified employees to 
1,000 across the business to date.Independent Quality Certification 
We embrace independent quality certification 
as an opportunity to drive continuous 
improvement and operational excellence across 
Global Commercial Manufacturing, R&D 
and Commercial operations. Manufacturing 
operations hold Good Manufacturing Practices 
(GMP) certification such as International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
certification for quality management. Nutrition 
manufacturing maintains food and safety 
standards certification as well. 
19 This list represents a sample of the certifications our sites maintain 
and that are frequently used as indicators of product quality. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 QUALITY AND SAFETY
59Abbott is committed to upholding the  
highest standards for manufacturing of all 
nutrition products and has been implementing 
corrective actions and enhancements at the 
facility to give parents and customers renewed 
confidence in the quality of manufacturing  
at this plant. Our efforts have included 
increasing our finished product testing; 
confirming process consistency; enhancing  
our environmental monitoring program; 
installing non-porous, easily cleanable 
sanitary floors; and implementing revised 
traffic control patterns to further protect the 
manufacturing environment.
We know that our decision to recall product 
worsened the industry-wide formula shortage 
in the U.S., and prior to restarting production 
we worked to get as much product as we 
could into the hands of parents by increasing 
supply at our other FDA registered facilities, 
including bringing in Similac from our site 
in Cootehill, Ireland, by air and producing 
more liquid Similac and Alimentum. We also 
began releasing metabolic formulas that were 
previously on hold, to those who need these 
unique formulas. 
Through support from Abbott, Patient 
Advocate Foundation established a $5 million 
Pediatric Amino Acid Formula Emergency 
Assistance Fund to help families of patients 
on amino acid-based formulas who’ve been OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE 
Throughout 2021, we introduced new policies 
and procedures to direct efforts regarding 
product software life cycle security, economic 
operator checklists and internal auditor 
assessment forms. 
Product Quality Indicators
With global manufacturing operations 
and oversight from numerous regulatory 
agencies, our annual interactions with these 
organizations are key indicators of the efficacy 
of product quality efforts.
In early 2022, Abbott initiated a proactive, 
voluntary recall of powder formulas 
manufactured in one of the company’s 
facilities in response to consumer 
complaints related to Cronobacter 
sakazakii or Salmonella Newport in infants 
who had consumed powder infant formula 
manufactured in this facility.
Abbott conducts microbiological testing on  
products prior to distribution, and no Abbott 
formula distributed to consumers tested 
positive for Cronobacter sakazakii or Salmonella. 
After a thorough investigation by FDA, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
and Abbott, and review of all available data, 
there is no conclusive evidence to link Abbott’s 
formulas to these infant illnesses. 
20 Abbott does not distribute pharmaceutical products in the U.S.
21 As of 2021, Abbott has no open warning letters.Quality Inspections and Audits
2020 2021
Quality/regulatory inspections by global health authorities 507 559
% resulting in zero observations 81% 80%
FDA site inspections 4 12
% resulting in zero observations 75% 92%
Average number of observations per inspection 0.25 0.42
Internal independent corporate-level audits to ensure compliance with  
Abbott quality standards96 145
US FDA Class I and Class II
Business Class I Class II
Med Device 1 3
Diagnostics 1 6
Pharmaceutical20N/A N/A
Nutrition 0 0Total US FDA Warning Letters Issued
2020 202121
0 0hospitalized or encountered emergency room 
visits as a result of the formula shortage. The 
fund will provide grants to help these families 
with medical and related living expenses.
In addition, we’ve offered an increased number 
and value of coupons available for all our infant 
formula products, including Similac ready-to-
feed, to enable customers to purchase formula, 
either free or deeply discounted. And we are 
working with the USDA and state Special 
Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, 
Infants and Children (WIC) agencies and 
paying rebates on competitive products in states 
where Abbott holds the WIC contract, when 
Similac is not available. Abbott will continue to 
pay rebates for competitive products through 
August 31. This means program participants 
will continue to be able to obtain formula, free 
of charge whether it is Similac or formula from 
another manufacturer.
Finally, we are making significant investments 
to help ensure this never happens again. We 
plan to expand both capacity and redundancy. 
And we will similarly invest in upgrading our 
safety and quality processes and equipment.
Pre-Market Product Submission Review 
Throughout 2021, we established a team of 
technical and regulatory experts whose job it  
is to collaborate with the diagnostic business 
on driving better product approval outcomes. This includes targeting: 
• • Consistency and technical robustness of 
submissions; complete, well written  
and consistent with regulations, guidance, 
expectations and current industry  
technical standards• • Broad knowledge-sharing and training 
across divisions to drive awareness 
and adoption of FDA feedback and 
internal findings
• • Improvements to the design and 
development processes
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
60
QUALITY AND SAFETY
Matt Jones is a manufacturing process engineering 
lead tasked with developing and commissioning new 
fully automated production lines for FreeStyle Libre. 
Protecting Our Brand Through 
Third-Party Management 
Third-party manufacturers (TPMs) are some 
of our most critical suppliers. They create our 
finished products, often under the Abbott 
brand. To guarantee product quality and safety 
are always prioritized, we engage TPMs in 
aligning with our standards. 
Our TPM management process helps ensure 
effective quality management systems, 
procedures, certifications and controls. Several 
tools help safeguard our brand, including: 
• • Global TPMs list
• • Corporate dashboard 
• • Maturity assessments
• • Risk evaluation tools 
• • Quality expectations 
• • Quality agreement templates 
• • Audits and evaluations
• • Corrective and preventive action feedback
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 QUALITY AND SAFETY
61In 2021, we established a partnership with the Local Initiatives 
Support Corporation (LISC), a nonprofit committed to 
connecting private resources with under-invested people and 
places. Starting in 2022, we will provide financial assistance to 
select diverse suppliers. For more information, see page 71.CREATE A
RESILIENT, DIVERSE  
AND RESPONSIBLE
SUPPLY CHAIN  
Abbott’s global supply chain has proven its strength, resilience 
and ability to amplify our positive impact on the world. 
When we nurture a supplier network that’s strong and ethical, 
we multiply our ability to touch people’s lives and reduce 
shared sustainability impacts. And, by focusing on spend with 
diverse companies, we’re creating a supplier base as varied as 
those we serve.
$25M  
in financial assistance 
provided by Abbott$12.5M  
loan capital matching from 
LISC$37.5M  
joint investment to support tailored 
solutions, talent development and 
growth resourcesINITIATIVE SPOTLIGHT
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 SUPPLY CHAIN
6231% AND  15%   
GROWTH  
in spend with Black- and 
women-owned businesses* 
respectively (2021 vs. 2020) 48.6%  
SPEND   
increase with small 
businesses**
100%  
OF SUPPLIERS   
assessed for sustainability risk3  
PACKAGING INITIATIVES 
funded that will impact 
8 million pounds of 
packaging  materials
Established language  to 
incorporate our social 
responsibility requirements into 
direct material spend contractsIdentified a representative  sample 
of suppliers with potential high-
risk sustainability factors to pilot 
2030 audit programmingA healthy supply chain is one that is resilient, diverse and 
responsible. To build the sourcing network we envision, we are 
evolving our approach to how materials and services are procured, 
packaged and transported. Our Approach to  
Supply Chain Management 
A
Approximately 
76,000 suppliersAcross 
154 countries In 2021, we spent 
approximately 
$20.3 billion with 
these suppliersOur Supply Chain Is Multi-Faceted
More information on how we are working with suppliers to improve our 
environmental impacts can be found from page 40 . Our intricate global network enables the company to get its life-changing 
technologies into the hands of the millions of people around the world.
For specific information on our 2030 goals around Supply Chain Management, see page 11.OUR 2030
GOALS PROGRESS
* Includes data from U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico suppliers. 
** Includes data from U.S.  only.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 SUPPLY CHAIN
63OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH
With a global footprint, we have an opportunity 
to leverage our supply chain for positive social 
and environmental change. We maintain a 
robust, multi-layered governance structure that 
provides oversight of all supply chain-related 
activities, helping minimize risks and maximize 
opportunities to address shared impacts. 
Our management approach places particular 
importance on supply chain sustainability 
and resilience. Each business is responsible 
for their respective supply chain, with 
enterprise efforts coordinated through Abbott’s 
Global Operations Council (GOC). The GOC 
collaborates across the enterprise to set the 
framework for our supply chain, encompassing 
manufacturing, procurement and logistics. 
The evolution and execution of our global 
supply chain strategy is overseen by the Supply 
Chain Council (SCC), which meets quarterly 
and reports regularly to the GOC. Among other 
responsibilities, several additional groups assist 
the SCC in our efforts to improve supply chain 
adaptability, resilience and flexibility. A Targeted Strategy 
Our supply chain and procurement strategy 
embeds sustainability considerations into 
supplier selection and management processes. 
It is managed by our Corporate Procurement 
team, a group that spans geographies, 
organizations and business functions. 
Our strategy is designed to ensure the products 
we make — and what others make for us — 
are sourced and produced ethically while 
mitigating negative sustainability impacts.  
It centers around five objectives: 
• • Ensure our supply network aligns with, 
protects and elevates our brand 
• • Create relationships that deliver shared 
value by conducting business with 
transparency and trust
• • Enhance margins and elevate financial 
performance by optimizing total cost, 
balancing risk with return and certainty 
• • Expedite growth and drive innovation 
through proprietary and exclusive 
opportunities
• • Design a flexible, dynamic supply network, 
driving service with value and quality while 
mitigating supply riskSupply Chain Governance
We are constantly evolving how we 
manage supplier relationships to minimize 
our shared sustainability impacts.
Supply Chain 
Council 
• Composed of 
senior leaders with 
responsibility for 
the supply chain 
of each Abbott 
business
• Makes 
recommendations 
for achieving 
a sustainable, 
resilient supply 
chain
• Leads development 
of a consistent 
global approach 
to identifying 
and managing 
sustainability 
opportunities  
and risks
Executive Crisis 
Management Team
• Responsible 
for managing 
supply chain 
risks for business 
continuity
• Supported by 
Global Security 
organization and 
32 country-
specific crisis 
action teams  
Environmental, 
Health and Safety 
(EHS) Leadership 
Council 
• Responsible for 
governing EHS-  
related topics
• Composed of 
EHS leaders from  
all business 
divisions
• Provides expertise 
to advise supply  
chain assessments 
and engagements
Supplier Diversity 
Governance 
Council
• Responsible  
for growing a 
strong, diverse 
supplier base
• Appoints Supplier 
Diversity  
Champions in each 
business and major 
spending category
Packaging 
Community of 
Practice 
• Responsible for 
leading packaging 
development 
efforts at 
corporate and 
divisional levels
• Drives 
implementation 
of Abbott’s 
2030 sustainable 
packaging goal  
GLOBAL OPERATIONS COUNCIL
Oversees operations strategy across manufacturing, supply chain, engineering and EHS
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 SUPPLY CHAIN
64Guiding Responsible Suppliers
We are committed to upholding the 
fundamental principles of human rights, labor, 
environmental protection and anti-corruption 
to ensure long-term business success for 
Abbott and our suppliers, and to improve lives 
around the world. Our Supplier Guidelines 
establish our expectations of any supplier 
we enter a business relationship with. The 
Guidelines align with the Ten Principles of the 
UN Global Compact and the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) Principles for 
Responsible Supply Chain Management. 
Through the Guidelines, we detail minimum 
conditions to help ensure that our suppliers 
conduct their business in an ethical manner, 
with integrity and in compliance with all 
relevant legal requirements and industry 
codes. In 2020, we updated our Guidelines  
to strengthen our focus in five key areas.
Suppliers must be able to demonstrate 
compliance with our Guidelines at the request 
and to the satisfaction of Abbott through 
our Supplier Social Responsibility program. 
It is Abbott’s expectation that our suppliers 
fully support the Guidelines and drive 
sustainability principles across their own 
supply chains, systems and employee benefits. 
This helps ensure materials and services 
from Tier 2 suppliers, and deeper, also meet 
our requirements. We embed a social responsibility clause in 
our direct material procurement contracts. 
The clause details Abbott’s values and sets the 
expectation that vendors will comply with the 
focus areas of our Supplier Guidelines. It enables 
assessment of this compliance and requires our 
vendors to remediate any issues identified. 
Abbott’s Procurement professionals are 
required to complete training on the 
Guidelines and contract language to ensure 
these expectations are understood internally 
and cascaded to our suppliers. Likewise, our 
suppliers are responsible for training their 
employees to meet the expectations detailed  
in the Guidelines. 
In combination with our Supplier  
Guidelines, several additional policies 
and guidelines further our supply chain 
sustainability strategies: 
• • Green Procurement Guidelines: 
support our Sourcing team to identify 
environmentally preferable goods and 
services and request them from suppliers 
• • Global Environmental, Health and 
Safety Policy: guides engagement with 
strategic stakeholders, suppliers and 
contractors to help ensure compliance 
with regulations and applicable Abbott 
standards to reduce EHS impacts• • Supplier Diversity Guidelines: commit 
Abbott to equal opportunities for small 
businesses and those owned or operated  
by members of underrepresented groups 
• • Water Policy: sets supplier 
requirements for transparency on water 
management practices 
• • Climate Responsible Energy Guidelines: 
encourage suppliers to reduce emissions 
and improve energy efficiency
• • Animal Welfare Policy: guides our work 
with animal-related suppliers and contract 
laboratories, including expectations that 
animal use in any testing or process should 
occur only after alternatives have been fully 
explored and rejected
• • Position Statement on Conflict Minerals: 
details a process for understanding conflict 
mineral sourcing and use, including 
identification of in-scope products and 
suppliers, supplier engagement and 
requirements to disclose the presence  
and source of conflict minerals in their 
supply chains
Read more about how we ensure Abbott’s 
standards are upheld throughout the supply 
chain on page 82 .. OUR SUPPLIER GUIDELINE FOCUS
Ethics 
• Business integrity and  
fair competition
• Identification of worker concerns• Animal welfare
• Conflict minerals
• Privacy and confidentiality
Human Rights and Labor
• Freely chosen employment
• Child labor and young workers
• Nondiscrimination• Fair treatment 
• Wages, benefits and working hours
• Freedom of association
Health and Safety
• Secure, safe and healthy workplace
• Accident, injury and health risk• Legal and regulatory
Environmental Management and Compliance
• Environmental management systems
• Waste storage and management
• Water and wastewater• Air emissions
• Environmental permits, licenses  
and reporting requirements
Management Systems
• Legal and customer requirements
• Risk management
• Documentation• Training and competency
• Continuous improvement
• Communication
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
65
SUPPLY CHAIN
Chee Siong Ngui, Senior Technician, Packaging.Evolving Social Responsibility Language 
In 2021, we updated the language in our social 
responsibility clause that will be included in 
direct material contracts. Implementing this 
clause contributes to our goal of having 80% 
of newly contracted direct material spend 
incorporate social responsibility requirements. 
In support of this initiative, teams with 
contracting authority or oversight in our 
Divisional, Procurement and Legal functions 
were trained on the new language and how to 
engage with suppliers to implement it. Product Traceability and Critical Materials
Abbott maintains product traceability 
throughout manufacturing and distribution by 
leveraging tracking and tracing technologies 
and enterprise resource planning solutions. 
This way, we can help ensure compliance with 
regulatory, quality and control requirements. 
Critical material use is managed through our 
product stewardship program (see page 54). 
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE
Growing Our Team
In 2021, we expanded the Supply Chain 
Sustainability team within our Global 
Procurement organization, and continued 
partnering with Operations, Supply Chain 
and EHS functions to manage our supply 
chain sustainability strategy, governance and 
programming. We also established a network of 
Sustainability Liaisons to act as representatives 
for each business division in support of our 
2030 goals and supply chain initiatives. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 SUPPLY CHAIN
66Supplier Risk Assessment  
and Engagement
All suppliers on our Approved Suppliers List are 
categorized as high (critical), medium or low 
risk. Critical suppliers are those identified as:
• • Supplying materials, components or 
services that influence the safety or 
performance of our products
• • Our only approved source of materials, 
components or services 
• • Integral to our business continuity
Suppliers are also evaluated based on 
supply chain transparency and complexity, 
alignment with certification schemes, how 
close they are to our customers and whether 
they’ve demonstrated commitment to 
product security. 
Our process for confirming suppliers meet our 
quality standards is detailed on page 58 .We want to work with suppliers that share 
our commitment to sustainability. We 
maintain a formal process for assessing 
suppliers to minimize reputational and 
continuity risks, and to help ensure 
compliance with our Supplier Guidelines.
OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Choosing the Right Suppliers
When selecting suppliers, we consider applicable 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
factors alongside business capabilities and 
capacities, financial health and alignment 
with our vision. Using classification models, we 
measure the risk levels and shared sustainability 
impacts of the applicable relationship.
Direct and Indirect 
Suppliers
• Annual high-level ESG 
risk assessments of 
supply base
• 150–300 potential 
high sustainability risk 
suppliers surveyed to 
understand management 
systems, programs and 
performance
• Auditing of highest 
sustainability risk 
suppliers completed 
every 1–5 years 
depending on industry 
and prior performance 
• Post-audit actions 
determined by program 
and stakeholders (see 
individual program 
descriptions for details)
Industry Organizations 
• Industry standard and  
practice alignment
• Knowledge sharing and  
best practices 
• Supplier training 
opportunities to address 
shared risks
• Shared supplier 
assessments to minimize 
reporting burden 
on suppliers
Strategic Sourcing  
Category Initiatives
• Targeted initiatives 
to assess and engage 
suppliers operating in 
sourcing categories  
with significant 
sustainability risks  
and/or opportunities
Nongovernmental 
Organizations (NGOs) 
and Charitable 
Organizations
•  Collaboration  
on initiatives A COLLABORATIVE APROACH TO RISK ASSESSMENT
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 SUPPLY CHAIN
67Risk-Based Monitoring and Evaluation
We have global policies and procedures for 
evaluating suppliers for potential sustainability 
issues, including those related to ethics, 
human rights and labor, health and safety, 
environment and management systems. Our 
supplier assessment programs take a risk-
based approach to determine assessment, 
monitoring and audit requirements. They 
consider supplier size, maturity, industry, 
sourcing regions, ESG performance and 
Abbott spend. This is particularly relevant 
to our critical suppliers, but we also assess 
non-critical suppliers that operate in high 
sustainability risk industries or regions with 
potential risk exposure.
Abbott utilizes a third-party risk monitoring 
tool to perform real-time analysis of critical 
supplier sourcing locations, tracking 
potential geopolitical, security, sustainability, 
environmental and infrastructure risks. 
Sustainability risk scores consider 
performance in employee autonomy, workers’ 
rights, child labor and environmental factors. 
We also use the tool to monitor supply 
chain disruptions and to identify suppliers 
and locations that pose potential business 
continuity risk. These insights then inform our 
sourcing strategy and contingency plans.
Additional risk-specific analyses are performed 
for strategic sourcing categories and regions 
when potential risks are identified. Supplier Survey and Audit Program 
Abbott’s Supplier Sustainability Survey and 
Audit Program is an ongoing effort that 
enables global supply chain assessment and 
engagement on a broad range of sustainability 
topics. Through a two-year cycle, we identify 
and engage potential high sustainability risk 
suppliers, as well as those with the greatest 
opportunities to address shared sustainability 
impacts, to evaluate their sustainability risks 
and ensure business continuity. 
First, our global supply base is assessed, 
considering overall sustainability impacts, as 
well as topic-specific impacts such as human 
rights and labor, EHS risk, waste diversion 
opportunities, climate impacts and carbon 
management. Then 150–300 potentially high 
sustainability risk suppliers are identified 
by our Procurement and Business teams for 
participation in Abbott’s annual Supplier 
Sustainability Survey. The survey helps us 
understand supplier sustainability maturity 
and opportunities to improve supply chain 
sustainability and resilience, covering:
• • Management systems
• • Compliance and reporting
• • Ethics
• • Human rights and labor practices
• • Health and safety• • Environmental performance
• • Supply chain management
Suppliers are determined to be “high 
sustainability risk” when responses are not 
aligned with the expectations outlined in our 
Supplier Guidelines. 
After reviewing the survey results, suppliers 
selected for audit are notified and audited 
by an external third-party auditor using 
Workplace Conditions Assessment (WCA) — 
or other globally recognized — standards. 
These standards assess a supplier’s social 
and labor conditions, health and safety, 
environment and business practices at the 
facility level. Depending on supplier industry 
and survey/audit results, audit frequency can 
range from one to three years.
Positive Results on Engagement 
To assess how companies engage suppliers on 
climate issues, the CDP provides a  
Supplier Engagement Rating (SER). In 2021,  
we were proud to receive an SER of A-,  
placing us in the Leadership band.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 SUPPLY CHAIN
68Where major issues are noted, suppliers 
must submit corrective and preventive action 
(CAPA) plans within 30–60 days of receiving 
audit results. Abbott’s supplier relationship 
manager and subject matter experts will then 
monitor the supplier’s CAPA implementation 
and determine if a reaudit or other action, such 
as contract termination, is required. We also 
encourage suppliers to report concerns via our 
Speak Up tool, which is covered in more detail 
on page 79 . 
In addition to our Supplier Sustainability 
Survey and Audit program, we maintain 
category- and region-specific supplier 
assessment and audit programs where specific 
sustainability risks have been identified. They 
include our Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients 
(API) Program, Waste Vendor Assessment 
Program, Animal Welfare Program and 
Conflict Minerals Program. These programs 
are detailed on pages 70–73 . Insights collected through these supplier 
assessment and engagement programs support 
better supplier engagement and inform 
development of sustainability initiatives for 
implementation at the supplier, sourcing and/
or business level. 
OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE 
Engaging the Right Global Suppliers 
In 2021, 210 suppliers covering 25% of spend 
were engaged through Abbott’s Supplier 
Sustainability Survey. We also updated 
the survey to better understand risks and 
opportunities in line with current and 
emerging sustainability-related issues and our 
2030 goals. 
In addition to survey respondents, 51 high 
sustainability risk suppliers were audited with 
overall findings indicating Abbott is limited 
to minimal sustainability risk based on the 
suppliers assessed.22 Safeguarding Business Continuity and 
Supply Chain Risk Mitigation 
Risk profiling, global event monitoring and an 
alert system support identification of potential 
supply disruptions and inform proactive 
responses. In 2021, our risk profiling exercise 
more than doubled the number of supply chain 
areas monitored. 
To further safeguard our business and supply 
chain against unforeseen events, we created a 
Supply Chain Resilience program to develop 
people, processes and tools to evaluate and 
engage with suppliers on identified topics. 
2021 actions included an end-to-end risk 
assessment for products identified as critical 
or constituting the top 80% of revenue for 
each business, and establishment of standard 
metrics for measuring internal and external 
risks. In total, over 50 products were profiled; 
this included more than 2,500 unique supply 
chain points, such as suppliers, plants and 
distribution centers.Throughout 2021, COVID-19 remained a 
challenge to supply chain resilience. In 
response, we maintained precautions put in 
place the previous year, including building an 
inventory of raw materials and finished goods 
to help ensure supply continuity. We continued 
to monitor performance at manufacturing 
sites in known COVID-19 hotspots to inform 
contingency plans. Where labor shortages 
caused by the pandemic threatened to impact 
key raw materials suppliers, we provided 
BinaxNOW COVID-19 tests to enable increased 
employee testing. 
* Rounded to the nearest percentage Our Supplier Sustainability 
Survey Results*
43%
of carbon-intensive suppliers  
have carbon reduction goals 
92%
maintain a formal Human Rights  
& Labor policy or practices97%
have an Ethics policy, Code of 
Conduct or equivalent
97%
have a Health & Safety policy, 
procedures and practices 
40%
are International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) 14001 or 
ISO 50001 standard certified54%
of suppliers operating in water-
stressed areas have water targets 
22 Includes unique count of suppliers audited in 2021 through Abbott’s 
Global Social Responsibility, Waste Vendor Assessment, and Chemicals 
of Environmental Concern and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Supplier Assessment programs.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 SUPPLY CHAIN
69Rasheeda Greene-Woods, Warehousing Clerk, Shipping Operations.OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Partnering Across the Supply Chain
By connecting with external stakeholders and 
global leaders in sustainability, we can nurture 
a responsible supply chain management 
approach that continuously improves 
the sustainability of our supply chain. 
Organizations we partner with include: Strategic Supply Chain Initiatives 
• • Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative 
(PSCI): promotes collaboration to improve 
sustainability programming and provide 
suppliers with capability training through 
online and in-person learning opportunities
• • National Association for EHS&S 
Management (NAEM): encourages 
advanced environmental stewardship,  
safe and healthy workplaces, and  
global sustainability 
We also engage suppliers on sustainability 
risks and opportunities affiliated with products 
and services they supply to Abbott. Outcomes 
of these partnerships include, but are not 
limited to:
• • Supplier education and mentoring to 
improve sustainability awareness and 
management performance
• • Connecting to explore business continuity 
solutions and opportunities to source, 
design, produce and distribute products in 
ways that respect environment, society and 
human health impacts
• • Solutions to reduce shared sustainability 
impacts across Abbott and our suppliers’ 
value chains Strategic Supply Chain Initiatives 
Our supply chain initiatives aim to reduce 
shared impacts, particularly in priority areas 
such as labor, human rights, environment and 
anti-corruption. The SCC has developed two 
types of initiatives: 
• • Issue-specific initiatives: cover the whole 
supply chain and address targeted topics, 
such as supplier diversity and management 
of emissions, water and inbound materials 
• • Sourcing category-specific initiatives:  
cover multiple sustainability risks and 
opportunities in high sustainability risk 
sourcing categories 
Sourcing Categories With High 
Sustainability Impact
• • Agriculture
• • Dairy
• • Energy
• • Packaging
• • Chemicals of Environmental Concern  
and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients
• • Transportation and Distribution
• • Waste Management With a global business and supply chain 
as complex as ours, the opportunity to 
partner with suppliers on addressing social 
and environmental impacts is significant. 
We collaborate across businesses and 
functions to partner with various supply 
chain stakeholders on reducing shared 
sustainability impacts — like worker 
health and safety, climate change, natural 
disasters, resource scarcity, cybersecurity 
and disease outbreaks. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 SUPPLY CHAIN
70Supplier Diversity Program 
Recognition 
Our Supplier Diversity Program 
has been recognized by several 
organizations in 2021: 
Best of Best program by:
• • Black EOE Journal
• •  Hispanic Network Magazine
• • U.S. Veterans Magazine
• • Professional Woman’s Magazine#2 in the DiversityInc Top 
Companies for Supplier DiversityOur memberships in the following 
organizations open other doors to working 
with diverse groups: 
• • National Minority Supplier Development 
Council (NMSDC)
• • Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council (WBENC)
• • National LGBT Chamber of Commerce 
(NGLCC) 
• • Diversity Alliance for Science 
• • Diverse Manufacturing Supply Chain 
Alliance (DMSCA) 
• • Chicago United
Read more about how we’re promoting supply 
chain diversity on page 19 of our Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion Report. 
Promoting Diverse Healthcare  
Supply Chains 
While a driving force for change, 50% of 
diverse small business owners in the U.S. 
face challenges like restricted access to loans 
for business growth. To address this gap, we 
partnered with the LISC on a $37 .5 million 
initiative to provide diverse small businesses 
with the financial support they need to succeed. With Abbott contributing $25 million and 
LISC a further $12.5 million, funding will help 
businesses in three ways: 
• • Growth capital grants
• • Business loans
• • Technical assistance
Eligible businesses include those owned by 
people of color, women, veterans, people with 
disabilities, people who identify as lesbian, gay, 
bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) and 
other historically underrepresented groups. 
And, to help ensure the initiative supports a 
more equitable healthcare industry, funding 
will go to businesses focused on manufacturing 
or business-to-business products for 
diagnostics, nutrition products, medical 
devices and other key health technologies. OUR 2021 PERFORMANCE 
In 2021, more than 5,600 suppliers were 
engaged on sustainability risks and 
opportunities, influencing over 47% of our 
supply chain spend.
A Recognized Commitment to  
Supplier Diversity 
Supply chain diversity is a cornerstone of our 
sustainability plan. It encourages innovation, 
opens new procurement channels and 
supports community prosperity through 
economic growth and inclusion. With our 
Supplier Diversity Program, we are creating 
opportunities for diverse and historically 
underrepresented suppliers. And under our 
Tier 2 program, we partner with key suppliers 
to increase spend with their diverse suppliers. 
We have remained steadfast in our commitment, 
prioritizing increased spending with small, 
women-, minority- and veteran-owned 
businesses. This includes incorporating 
diversity goals into all procurement sourcing 
categories and appointing 14 Supplier Diversity 
Champions across Abbott’s four business 
segments. Through these efforts, we leverage 
diverse supplier relationships to support their 
development and growth.
Supplier Diversity and 
Sustainability Training  
Percentage
100%
100%
100%
98%Annual 
Target
2021
2020
2019 
 
 
 Annual Spend on Diverse Supplier  
Dollars spent (billions) 
$3.27
$3.22
$2.34
$1.902022 
Target
2021
2020
2019
() Goal Achieved 
 
 
 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 SUPPLY CHAIN
71We do not use palm oil in our products. 
However, we use sustainably sourced soy- and 
palm-derived ingredients (such as palm nuts 
and medium-chain triglycerides (MCT) oil), 
which can be affiliated with deforestation. 
In 2021, 0.3% of total spend was with these 
ingredients, and 0.1% was from deforestation 
affiliated regions.
Animal Welfare in Dairy 
We are committed to improving conditions 
for animals producing dairy ingredients 
for our products, by supporting the World 
Organisation for Animal Health’s Five 
Domains of Animal Welfare . In 2021, 95% of 
the milk we procured (by spend) was certified 
to animal welfare standards. 
Chemicals of Environmental Concern and 
Antimicrobial Resistance
Abbott’s branded generic medicines business 
assesses suppliers operating in at-risk regions23 
that handle and/or manufacture chemicals 
of environmental concern and Active 
Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs). Abbott 
is a small player in the global anti-infectives 
market, but recognizes our role in limiting 
antimicrobial resistance. This assessment evaluates suppliers based on 
supply chain criticality and environmental, 
health and safety risk. Suppliers are evaluated 
via a questionnaire depending on the level of 
risk assigned. 
An on-site visit24 may be triggered if a supplier 
is determined high-risk from questionnaire 
review, if it’s had a significant incident, 
received notice of violation or negative media 
reporting, or is identified by one of our internal 
stakeholders. Upon completion of the on-site 
assessment, suppliers are assigned a risk status 
and follow-up actions are determined, including 
CAPA execution by the supplier, continuation 
of business activities, identification of back-up 
suppliers and/or implementation of an exit 
strategy. By assessing suppliers this way, we aim 
to minimize environmental risks and ensure 
business continuity.
In 2021, 48 self-assessments were completed 
by suppliers. On-site visits of 39 suppliers — 
16 of which were desk-based as a result of 
COVID — were completed by Abbott or third-
party subject matter experts. Of the on-site 
assessments completed, six were shared with 
industry partners through the PSCI data-
sharing platform.Emissions Management in  
Our Supply Chain
Scope 3 emissions account for about 93% of 
Abbott’s carbon footprint. As such, a cross-
functional team — including corporate and 
divisional EHS, Procurement and Supply 
Chain functions — has partnered to identify 
our most carbon-intensive suppliers and 
sourcing categories with the greatest 
opportunities for emission reductions. 
In 2021, we completed a maturity assessment 
to understand key suppliers’ existing carbon 
management efforts and their impact on our 
Scope 3 emissions. A representative supplier 
sample of 115 suppliers, covering 23% of 
supplier spend, was then engaged through 
Abbott’s Supplier Sustainability Survey to 
identify opportunities for carbon reductions. 
Read more about emissions on page 43 . Addressing Supply Chain Water Risks 
By 2030, we aim to work with 50 key suppliers 
in high water-stressed areas to reduce risks 
to water quality and quantity. In 2021, we 
conducted a water risk assessment to identify 
key suppliers. Using the World Resources 
Institute (WRI) AqueductTM Global Water Tool, 
this assessment considered supplier industries, 
sourcing locations and level of water stress. 
Of those identified, 26 suppliers representing 
4% of total 2021 spend were engaged through 
our Supplier Sustainability Survey to better 
understand existing water risk mitigation 
efforts and opportunities.
Agriculture and Addressing Deforestation 
Abbott is a leader in sustainability, with an 
internal surveillance program that tests above 
industry requirements. Our Food and Safety 
Council (including representatives from 
Supply Chain, Regulatory, and Research and 
Development) meets on a quarterly basis to 
address concerns related to our agriculture 
supply chain, including sustainability 
issues. In part, this involves due diligence 
of our sourcing practices and those of our 
agricultural suppliers to better understand 
environmental, social and deforestation 
risks, particularly for soy- and palm-
derived products. 
23 Includes China, Europe, India and Latin America.
24 On-site assessments may be repeated every 3-5 years.
25 Includes commercial air travel and rental cars.Renewable Energy Procurement 
We are always on the lookout for renewable 
energy sourcing options, increasingly 
purchasing electricity from utility providers 
that include above average renewable 
generation in their energy mix. We estimate 
that 80,000 metric tons of CO 2e were avoided 
through the purchase of low-carbon and 
renewable energy in 2021.
Business Travel 
As a result of the ongoing pandemic, we 
continue to avoid nonessential business 
travel where possible. This has resulted in a 
55% decrease in business travel-associated25 
Scope 3 carbon emissions compared to pre-
pandemic levels (2019) and a 9% increase from 
2020 to 2021.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
72
SUPPLY CHAIN
Transportation and Distribution 
We are reducing the impact of transportation and 
distribution activities, and balancing emission 
savings with the need for timely delivery of 
lifesaving products. Our U.S. businesses follow 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
SmartWay® program to advance supply chain 
sustainability through measuring, benchmarking 
and improving freight transportation efficiency. 
In 2021, Abbott moved freight 45.9 million miles 
across North America using multiple modes of 
transport. This included 1.2 million miles and 
605 shipments through intermodal transport, 
and 44.7 million miles and 71,999 truckloads sent 
by road.
Packaging 
Thoughtful packaging design is the surest 
way to employ circularity characteristics — 
like recyclability and material efficiency — 
are incorporated into our products. We are 
utilizing our newly created Sustainable 
Packaging Guiding Principles to tailor how we 
work with material and technology suppliers 
on innovative, sustainable solutions. 
Read more about our sustainable packaging 
efforts on page 52 . Partnering With Inbound Materials 
Suppliers on Waste Diversion
Forming robust supplier partnerships is critical 
to achieving our operational waste diversion 
targets. Abbott’s EHS, Procurement and Supply 
Chain teams are committed to developing 
and tracking waste diversion initiatives in 
collaboration with our key suppliers.
In 2021, we established a process and criteria 
for identifying suppliers with the greatest 
potential to influence the environmental 
impacts of Abbott’s inbound materials 
that become waste from our operations. 
Our approach included engaging Abbott 
manufacturing sites with significant 
waste production to identify the suppliers 
contributing the greatest impacts to our waste footprint. We also broadened our scope 
to include our largest suppliers in strategic 
sourcing categories. 
Through this process, we identified over 
60 suppliers with potential inbound waste 
partnership opportunities; a representative 
sample of almost 40 was engaged through 
Abbott’s Supplier Sustainability Survey to 
identify future opportunities to collaborate. 
Partnering With Suppliers for Reuse and 
Responsible Waste Management
We partner with waste management suppliers 
to ensure our waste is responsibly handled 
and disposed of and, where feasible, divert it 
from landfill and incineration without energy 
recovery. This includes seeking opportunities to reuse and recycle materials and targeting 
beneficial-use activities, where waste is sent 
to off-site partners for use as a substitute to 
commercial products and commodities. 
Our technical standard for evaluating 
and approving vendors mandates ethical, 
responsible approaches to waste management 
and aims to minimize risks associated with 
what we dispose of. For manufacturing sites 
that produce more than 1,200 kilograms of 
hazardous waste annually, our Waste Vendor 
Assessment program requires on-site audits 
of waste management firms at least every five 
years. This program has assessed 717 waste 
vendors within the last five years and 139 in 
2021. In addition, we completed 24 hazardous 
waste vendor on-site audits and 13 desktop 
audits under the 2020 COVID-19 protocol  
in 2021.
We maintain an IT standard specifically for 
evaluating and approving vendors for electronic 
waste, ensuring responsible recycling and, 
where viable, resale of IT waste. In 2021, we 
partnered with two primary waste vendors to 
recycle 212 U.S. tons and resell an additional 
67 U.S. tons of electronic equipment.
Read more about how we’re reducing waste  
on page 49 . Cutting the Distance Between 
Abbott and Our Suppliers 
For many years, our facility in 
the Netherlands has relied on a 
Germany-based bottle supplier. 
However, when a packaging supplier 
built a new state-of-the-art 
manufacturing factory close to our 
own manufacturing facility in 2020, 
we took the initiative to source 
packaging more locally.
Not only has this switch reduced 
manufacturing lead times; it has 
drastically cut shipping distances by 
217 miles for each shipment — annual 
savings of 528,000 miles. This, in 
turn, translates into emission savings 
of roughly 754 metric tons of CO 2e 
and brings us another step closer to 
achieving our emission goals. Transportation Modes (% of Global Spend)
2019 2020 2021
Air 20% 22% 26%
Over the Road 33% 31% 25%
Parcel 28% 22% 29%
Multi-modal and Rail 9% 12% 6%
Ocean 10% 13% 14%
Total Global Spend in Scope 100% 100% 100%
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 SUPPLY CHAIN
73GOVERNANCE AND  
SUSTAINABILITY  
FOUNDATIONS
Our 2030 Sustainability Plan sets a clear course for how we innovate 
for access and affordability, embed sustainability in everything we 
do and transform lives. Robust governance helps ensure we have the 
leadership, policies and structures in place to succeed.
To create a business that improves people’s lives, we must 
engage everyone at Abbott. From seeking guidance from 
a diverse Board of Directors to developing training that 
reinforces our shared responsibility for ethical business 
practices, our approach puts sustainability front and center. 7 
YEARS  
is the average tenure of 
Abbott Board Members>104,000  
employees trained through our 
Legal and Ethical Resource Network 
programINITIATIVE SPOTLIGHT
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 GOVERNANCE
74Corporate Governance and 
Board Oversight 
Abbott is committed to strong corporate 
governance that aligns with stakeholder 
interests. Our Board of Directors spends 
significant time with senior management 
to understand global dynamics, challenges 
and opportunities. Directors provide 
insight and ask questions that guide 
management decision-making. 
OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Abbott’s Board of Directors consists of 
our Chairman of the Board and Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO), Robert B. Ford, a 
Lead Independent Director and 10 other 
independent directors. 
The Lead Independent Director — currently 
Chair of the Nominations and Governance 
Committee, William A. Osborn — is selected 
by and from the independent directors and has 
significant responsibilities. These include: 
• • Presiding at regular executive sessions of 
the independent directors and all meetings 
where the Chairman isn’t present • • Acting as a liaison between the Chairman 
and independent directors
• • Communicating with the Chairman on 
agenda topics and Board-related matters
• • Reviewing and approving meeting topics 
and schedules 
• • Conferring with the Nominations and 
Governance Committee and CEO on 
management succession planning 
• • Leading annual performance reviews of the 
Board and its committees
• • Overseeing director candidate identification 
and evaluation process
• • Working with management on corporate 
governance developments 
• • Authority to call meetings of the 
independent directors 
• • Engaging directly with major shareholdersEach year, Abbott’s directors evaluate the effectiveness of the Board and its committees in 
performing its governance and risk oversight responsibilities. Directors assess the performance of 
their peers, as well as the full Board of Directors and each of the committees on which they serve, 
as follows:THE BOARD EVALUATION PROCESS 
2   Results Collection and Review
• To ensure candid feedback, directors submit evaluation responses to an independent third party that anonymizes and compiles  
them into reports.
• The Nomination and Governance Committee reviews peer and Board reports. Each committee reviews its respective report. 
• All responses are shared with the full Board.
3  Feedback Incorporation
• Feedback requiring additional consideration is addressed at Board and committee meetings. Enhancement opportunities are  
identified and implemented as appropriate.
•  The Chair of the Nominations and Governance Committee discusses peer evaluation results with individual directors as needed.  
1   Written evaluations solicit feedback on performance of:
Individual directors, including:
• Independent thinking and action
• Discussion and decision contributions
• Ethical standards and values 
• Professional competence in oversight and governance  The full Board and committees, including:
• Structure and composition
• Effectiveness of oversight and other responsibilities
• Encouragement of open communication and differing viewpoints  
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 GOVERNANCE
75The Compensation Committee
Support’s the Board’s responsibilities 
relating to the compensation of Abbott’s 
executive officers and directors, including: 
• • Reviews, approves and administers 
equity plans and executive officer 
incentive compensation plans 
• • Annually reviews director 
compensation 
• • Engages consultants to advise on 
executive and non-employee director 
compensation matters
The Nominations and  
Governance Committee
Supports oversight of governance 
matters, including: 
• • Assists in the identification of 
individuals qualified to be Board 
members and recommends nominees
• • Recommends people to be elected  
as executive officers
• • Advises on corporate governance and 
organizational matters, management 
succession plans, major structural 
changes and conduct of Board activities2
3
26 Each of the committee members is financially literate, as is  
required of Audit Committee members by the New York Stock  
Exchange. The Board of Directors has determined that Nancy  
McKinstry is an “audit committee financial expert.”The Public Policy Committee 
Supports oversight of: 
• • Legal, regulatory and healthcare 
compliance matters
• • Product quality and cybersecurity 
matters and data privacy
• • Governmental affairs and 
political participation
• • Sustainability and social responsibility 
policies and practices
• • Social, political, economic and 
environmental trends and public policy 
issues that could impact business 
activities, performance and public image
Full details of Board members and committee 
functions are available on our website and in 
our 2022 Proxy Statement. For information  
on executive-level sustainability oversight,  
see page 14 . 4 Board Composition and Diversity
Abbott’s Board of Directors is composed of 
people who bring diversity of experience, 
expertise, ethnicity, gender and geography to 
the table. When identifying nominees to serve 
as candidates, our Nominations and Governance 
Committee considers these areas and assesses 
the effectiveness of our selection process. 
BOARD COMMITTEES 
The Board has four key, fully  
independent committees:
The Audit Committee26 
Supports oversight of: 
• • Accounting and financial reporting 
practices and the audit process
• • Quality and integrity of Abbott’s 
financial statements
• • Independent auditor qualifications, 
independence and performance
• • Internal audit function and 
auditor performance
• • Legal and regulatory compliance 
regarding financial matters
• • Enterprise risk management, including 
information security and enterprise 
cybersecurity1
OUR BOARD MEMBERS ARE
Board Tenure
0–5 years 7 directors
6–10 years 2 directors
11+ years 3 directors33%  
female17% 
racially/ethnically diverse
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 GOVERNANCE
76A DEFINED APPROACH TO 
RISK ASSESSMENT  
AND MANAGEMENT 
Our Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC) 
oversees regular compliance risk assessments. 
It follows changes in the external risk 
environment, including evolving industry 
codes and best practices, government guidance 
and enforcement actions taken against other 
companies. Our Anti-Corruption Compliance 
Enhancement (ACE) program evaluates 
specific commercial practices to identify 
potential compliance risks. Corruption risks 
are also included in enterprise-wide risk 
assessments conducted at least annually by our 
corporate audit group. 
Enterprise risk management (ERM) focuses on 
risks that have the potential to impact business 
performance. It continuously evaluates 
likelihood, impact and velocity to ensure our 
management team focuses efforts in the most 
relevant areas. Our ERM Network team — 
14 functional experts led by Abbott’s Vice 
President, Internal Audit — brings consistency 
and structure to risk evaluation and integrates 
ERM throughout our business. The Vice 
President, Internal Audit presents annual 
updates to the Audit Committee and completes 
detailed reviews of specific enterprise risks. The 
Board and its committees review enterprise risks 
throughout the year. Mitigating Acquisition Risks 
Acquiring businesses and products is key 
to evolving our offering. We maintain 
a clear process for assessing risk when 
integrating new acquisitions and ensuring 
they align with our quality, safety and 
environmental requirements. 
A cross-functional team identifies and 
prioritizes risks to develop integration action 
plans, focusing on ensuring compliance with 
country requirements and our own internal 
standards. Employees from the acquired 
company receive training to enable a  
smooth transition.
Read more about how we ensure acquisitions 
comply with our environmental standards 
on page 42 . 
Emerging Risks and Opportunities 
As well as addressing existing risks, we analyze 
emerging situations that represent potential 
risks and opportunities for Abbott. Emerging Risks and Opportunities Response
Disruptive technologies Technology is increasingly important in healthcare. As requirements for connected solutions grow, we 
face increasing industry competition and from technology companies branching out into healthcare. The 
impact of the pandemic has accelerated the need for products that converge technology and healthcare 
at an unprecedented speed. This presents a challenge where we face competitors not only in our own 
industry but technology players who are currently making strides into the healthcare sector. We view 
these challenges as an accelerator to our innovation and as an opportunity to develop products that can 
address health needs through meaningful innovation that is guided by patient needs. We see this as an 
opportunity to advance Abbott solutions, partnering across industries on increasingly effective solutions. 
The changing landscape poses new opportunities at the intersection of healthcare and technology. The 
convergence of healthcare and technology has shifted the spectrum of care from hospitals and healthcare 
institutions to digital solutions and remote therapy, from reacting to disease management to preventative 
care and wellness, and from general diagnosis to customization of care. To remain competitive, our 
technologies must be science-driven, consumer-friendly, accessible, affordable and relevant. Abbott is 
creating solutions that enable self-diagnosis, offering devices and digital platforms that connect patients 
and doctors and enable quicker, better-informed decisions. Our 2030 Sustainability Plan focuses on 
designing access and affordability into our life-changing technologies and products. This plan requires us 
to design our technologies and products for broader access and affordability at every step — from every 
phase of our R&D process, to the materials we use, to manufacturing, to the ways we reach the people 
who need them.
From pandemic to endemic — the new normal As COVID-19 continues to create significant impacts and uncertainties for the global economy, we have 
executed proactive and reactive risk mitigation strategies specifically focused on COVID-19 and novel 
viruses to keep history from repeating itself. Increased likelihood of pandemics represents an opportunity 
to advance research capabilities. Through the formation of the Abbott Pandemic Defense Coalition — 
the first of its kind — we are able to detect threats sooner and respond quicker. In addition, we have 
developed a suite of COVID-19 testing platforms that supports multiple different diagnostic solutions for 
the different stages of infection and recovery. 
While we continue to remain alert on the pandemic front, we must also have the foresight to prepare to 
move from pandemic to endemic. Our efforts in meeting the world’s COVID-19 testing demands have 
not detracted our investments and ability to deliver strong growths in our Medical Devices, Nutrition, 
Established Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics businesses. As highlighted in our annual reports and press 
releases for the past two years, we have delivered a continued stream of new products and initiatives 
around the world, signifying progress and balanced strength in all four business segments.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
77
GOVERNANCE
GOVERNING ETHICAL 
PROCESSES
Abbott’s Chief Ethics and Compliance 
Officer (CECO) is the Corporate Officer 
responsible for leading our global ethics and 
compliance program and managing our OEC. 
The CECO provides regular briefings to our 
CEO, executive leaders, to Abbott’s Board of 
Directors and the Public Policy Committee.
The CECO chairs Abbott’s Business Conduct 
Committee (BCC), which includes our CEO 
and is composed of executive-level leaders. 
The BCC meets regularly to discuss legal and 
regulatory changes, monitor best practices 
and the ongoing operation of our compliance 
program, and discuss planned actions designed 
to continuously improve the program. Ethics and Integrity 
Dedicated committees at the business 
and affiliate level monitor compliance, 
provide employee awareness training and 
engagement, and meet frequently to discuss 
emerging issues. Each Abbott business 
and function has OEC staff members who 
support implementation of the ethics and 
compliance program. Outside the U.S., regional 
OEC personnel oversee country-specific 
compliance requirements.
A SHARED COMMITMENT  
TO INTEGRITY 
We want to build a culture of integrity and 
compliance, engaging every employee in 
upholding ethical behaviors. Our global online 
Legal and Ethical Resource Network (LERN) 
training program is run in 91 countries and 
32 languages. It informs employees of all 
aspects of our Code of Business Conduct, 
with practical guidance on recognizing and 
responding to legal and ethical issues. Full- and part-time employees are assigned 
LERN courses based on their role and 
responsibilities. In 2021, over 104,000 
employees completed lessons. The LERN 
curriculum also includes certifications on the 
code and conflicts of interest, with a key focus 
on interactions with healthcare professionals. 
All Abbott employees are expected to review 
and sign these annually.
In 2021, we launched Ethics and Compliance 
Week to drive awareness and engage with 
employees on compliance-related topics 
through global and region-specific initiatives. 
Ethics and Compliance Week kicked off 
with a company-wide email titled “Are You 
on the Right Path When it Comes to Ethics 
and Compliance?” that was viewed by over 
55,000 employees. This was followed by a 
message from Abbott’s CECO and select 
executive vice presidents on the importance 
of integrity and upholding Abbott values, 
which was available in 24 languages and 
viewed by over 57 ,000 employees. Highlighting 
Ethics and Compliance Week activities in the 
U.S., additional compliance messages were Acting ethically and with integrity is of 
the utmost importance to Abbott. It’s 
how we care for people and the planet 
and how we show the world we are a 
company that can be trusted. 
Interacting With Healthcare 
Professionals 
Certain countries require additional 
transparency and restrict how 
businesses can interact with 
healthcare professionals. We comply 
fully, providing additional certification 
and reporting payments and transfers 
of value. Interactions are monitored 
and audited periodically. 
Our commitment to ethical 
interactions with healthcare 
professionals, patients and 
consumers includes communicating 
responsibly — and in compliance with 
regulations — about our products 
and services. viewed by over 23,000 employees, inviting 
them to nominate Compliance Heroes who 
live our commitment to integrity every 
day. The OEC received 420 nominations, 
and ultimately recognized 27 employees as 
Compliance Heroes. In Latin America, Ethics 
and Compliance Week activities included an 
Olympics of Ethics and Compliance challenge 
that attracted more than 4,000 participants. 
Other regions engaged in similar activities, 
ranging from communications to interactive 
sessions designed to reinforce compliance 
policies and programs. 
On December 9, recognized as International 
Anti-Corruption Day, Abbott’s CECO sent 
a company-wide email available in 25 
languages, raising awareness of corruption 
and highlighting Abbott’s commitment to 
combat and prevent bribery and corruption. 
The communication included links to Abbott’s 
Anti-Corruption Overview as well as other 
tools such as LERN training modules, our 
Third Party Compliance program and our 
Speak Up reporting tool. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 GOVERNANCE
78Compliance
SEVEN STEPS TO COMPLIANCE 
The voluntary Compliance Program Guidance 
for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers outlines 
seven fundamental elements for effective 
compliance programs; we have created our 
own global ethics and compliance program 
with reference to these points. The program is 
regularly reviewed by an external party. 
Details of our compliance leadership, training 
and communication can be found on page 78 .
Our risk assessment process is outlined  
on page 77 .WRITTEN STANDARDS  
OF CONDUCT 
Our Code of Business Conduct is available 
in 29 languages and lays the groundwork 
for ethical conduct at Abbott. It outlines 
our company values and the expectation for 
our employees to live them every day. Every 
employee is required to read and certify 
adherence to the code annually. 
Our code and other policies align with 
guidelines issued by medical technology trade 
associations such as AdvaMed, APACMed, 
MedTech Europe and Mecomed. Additionally, 
our policies and procedures align with 
regulatory licenses and approvals we obtain 
to promote, sell and import medical devices, 
diagnostics, nutrition products and medicines. Our Nutrition business is committed to 
developing science-based products for all ages 
and to marketing these products ethically and in 
compliance with all local laws and regulations. 
We maintain robust systems for ensuring 
conduct at every business level aligns with our 
Global Infant Formula Marketing Policy and 
laws in the countries where we operate. 
Ethics and compliance policies are  
updated regularly to reflect regulatory and 
industry changes.
Processes for Reporting Concerns 
Our code emphasizes employees’ 
responsibility to report concerns of 
noncompliance, including those related to 
workplace discrimination or harassment. 
To promote this, we strive to create an 
environment where they feel safe to do so without fear of retaliation. We have defined 
avenues and processes for asking questions 
and reporting suspected or actual violations of 
our code, policies or procedures. This includes 
our Speak Up tool, through which employees 
and external parties, including suppliers, 
can confidentially and — where permitted — 
anonymously raise concerns of potential 
misconduct. Speak Up can be accessed by 
telephone, email or internet 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week. Live Speak Up telephone 
support includes operators who speak 
multiple languages for non-English speakers. 
Employees may also contact the OEC, Legal or 
the CECO directly.
Each report is entered into a database by the 
Ethics and Compliance Officer or delegated 
vendor or personnel. These are then 
investigated by the appropriate function so the 
OEC can determine if any action is needed. 
Periodic audits of this process help ensure we 
are conducting investigations as quickly and 
thoroughly as possible. 
Our Employee Problem Solving policy 
provides a system for openly exchanging 
information and resolving concerns. It applies 
to all Abbott employees worldwide, except 
where local laws or collective bargaining 
agreements dictate otherwise. Clear leadership 
and accountabilityWritten standards 
of conduct Processes for 
reporting concernsRigorous auditing 
and monitoringProcesses for 
investigations and 
corrective actionsRisk assessments 
to enhance 
complianceCompany-wide 
training and 
communicationsGlobal Ethics and Compliance ProgramTo be trusted as a responsible business, 
we ensure that ethical practices 
are constantly upheld and that we 
are working in compliance with 
relevant regulations. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 GOVERNANCE
79Rigorous Auditing and Monitoring 
Our international audit and monitoring 
process assesses compliance with our 
code, policies and procedures. Assessments 
determine the frequency and scope of audits. 
We maintain a tracking system for all action 
items identified to ensure business leaders are 
held accountable for making any necessary 
improvements to processes in a timely manner. 
The OEC monitors business activities 
throughout the year. OEC personnel 
supporting each Abbott business unit and 
country perform an annual risk assessment 
to identify areas of potential compliance risk. 
Based on assessment outcomes, they then 
establish monitoring plans for the year. 
Our monitoring includes selecting a risk-based 
sampling of interactions with healthcare 
providers (HCPs) (such as educational events, 
engagements with HCPs for services, and 
provision of sample or evaluation product) and 
reviewing supporting documentation to assess 
compliance with Abbott’s policies. 
The OEC also conducts “live monitoring” 
programs through which personnel directly 
observe HCP interactions. Issues detected 
through monitoring are analyzed, investigated if necessary and reported to management. 
Monitoring data are analyzed and trended over 
time to identify potential patterns requiring 
further evaluation. The OEC assigns and tracks 
to completion remedial actions, addressing the 
root causes of monitoring findings. 
Processes for Investigations and  
Corrective Actions 
All reports of potential code violations — 
including those related to discrimination and 
harassment — by employees and third parties 
that perform certain services on our behalf 
are thoroughly investigated. Where necessary, 
corrective actions are taken. Any employee 
who violates our code, policies or procedures 
is subject to appropriate disciplinary action, 
which may include termination. Employees 
refusing to cooperate in an investigation —  
or anyone who knowingly reports a false 
concern, or one intended to threaten, 
intimidate or retaliate — may also be subject  
to disciplinary action. 
Abbott does not tolerate retaliation against 
whistleblowers, or anyone else who reports 
a violation in good faith. This foundational 
principle is embedded in several sections 
of our Code of Business Conduct, which employees are required to certify their 
adherence to annually. Our training courses 
on the Code of Business Conduct and Decision 
Making at Abbott also make reference to 
Abbott’s stance on no retaliation. Anti-
retaliation language is also included in our 
Global Compliance Policy on Reporting 
Concerns and our Global Compliance 
Standards. Anti-retaliation principles are also 
a key component in several human resource 
policies, including Employee Problem Solving, 
Workplace Harassment and Violence in the 
Workplace. Abbott’s Speak-Up platform, 
where employees and third parties can raise 
potential concerns, includes a message from 
Abbott’s CECO that Abbott does not tolerate 
retaliation against those who report concerns. 
In addition, Abbott encourages employees to 
report any instances of retaliation, separately 
investigates those reports and disciplines 
employees who have engaged in retaliation. 
Corrective action related to Code violations, 
including retaliation, may involve disciplinary 
action up to and including termination.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
80
GOVERNANCE
PROTECTING OUR RIGHT  
TO OPERATE 
Essential to protecting our reputation 
and right to operate is ensuring we never 
provide or accept anything of value to gain 
an improper advantage or inappropriately 
influence business decisions. Our Global Anti-
Corruption Policy, available in 29 languages, 
prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. 
Employees complete annual training on this 
and other related policies and procedures. Corruption and Anti-Bribery 
As a global healthcare company, we work 
and interact with thousands of people 
every day. We maintain strict protocols  
to safeguard our business against 
activities that could be viewed as 
corruption or bribery. As a publicly traded company, we are subject 
to audits by external auditors. The results of 
these are reported periodically to the Board’s 
Audit Committee. Abbott is committed 
to adherence to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and 
all other applicable anti-corruption and anti-
bribery laws. We expect that every third-party 
company we do business with or that performs 
work on our behalf will act in accordance with 
these same laws.
PREVENTING ANTI-
COMPETITIVE PRACTICES 
We commit to complying with competition 
laws in every country where we do business. 
These laws prohibit agreements and practices 
that eliminate or discourage competition. They 
apply to various facets of our business, including 
competitor relationships, prices and terms of 
sale, and marketing and trade practices. We maintain a compliance program to ensure 
our operations comply with all relevant 
competition laws. We have established an 
in-house Competition Law Practice Group, 
composed of members of our Legal team and 
the OEC. The group meets regularly to identify 
risks and the best course of action to address 
them. It also monitors legal developments that 
may impact our global operations and assists 
in providing ongoing competition law training 
to employees. 
Employees are encouraged to contact our Legal 
team or the OEC directly for legal guidance 
regarding interactions with competitors and 
to report any inappropriate conversations. 
Reports can also be made through our Ethics and 
Compliance helpline. 
Internal Controls to Prevent Bribery and Corruption 
Risk assessments to 
identify and monitor 
potential risks or areas for 
more robust processes.
A platform for 
employees and external 
parties to raise concerns 
of potential misconduct.Policies and procedures  
with guidelines and 
approval requirements  
for business interactions 
and activities. 
OEC approval of all 
procedures regarding 
items that could 
be characterized as 
gifts, including brand 
reminders, cultural 
courtesies and items  
of medical utility.Independent Internal 
Audit team that reports 
directly to the Audit 
Committee and verifies 
policy and procedure 
compliance.
Investigations of all 
reports of potential 
violations.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 GOVERNANCE
81THIRD-PARTY COMPLIANCE 
All third parties that Abbott works with are 
expected to hold themselves to the same 
standards of ethical and legal compliance 
as we do ourselves. Third-Party Guidelines 
detail the requirements we expect partners to 
meet. They are available through our website 
in 18 languages . We provide training on these 
guidelines and anti-corruption issues to third 
parties, with a training deck developed for 
our OEC to guide country-specific training, 
particularly with companies that promote our 
products to healthcare providers on our behalf. 
A new e-learning platform, which we are in 
the process of launching, will provide and 
track online training for each third party that 
undergoes due diligence.A Third-Party Compliance Process identifies 
and addresses corruption and bribery risks 
that arise when interacting with government 
officials or healthcare providers on our 
behalf outside of the U.S. It requires Abbott 
businesses, subsidiaries and affiliates outside 
the U.S. to complete due diligence before 
engaging third-party companies. This includes 
screening companies, identifying high-risk 
partners, and monitoring and mitigating any 
potential risks. 
Potential partners are required to answer 
detailed questionnaires, while an external 
vendor engaged by Abbott performs due 
diligence background checks. The check covers risks including: 
• • Corruption
• • Fraud
• • Organized crime
• • Regulatory breaches 
• • Human rights and labor abuses
• • Social accountability
• • Arms trafficking and war crimes 
• • Violations of government-imposed 
sanctions
• • Terrorism
• • Money laundering 
• • Anti-competitive behavior
Where risks are identified, appropriate 
remedial action is developed and implemented 
by the OEC and our Legal team, including 
additional contract terms, auditing, 
monitoring, training or termination/rejection 
of the third party. We routinely update our 
Third-Party Compliance Process to mitigate 
risks and better protect our business against 
bribery and corruption. 
Deepak Khanal, Sr. Director, Product Development, Software.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
82
GOVERNANCE
Protecting Our People, Products and Brands
BUs and Business Support teams (BSTs) 
develop product identification playbooks of 
authorized packaging, manufacturing locations 
and typical shipping routes. This helps 
align internal efforts with those of external 
organizations, fostering awareness and boosting 
the identification of fraudulent products. 
SAFEGUARDING  
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
The following steps safeguard Abbott’s 
intellectual property and trade secrets against 
international threats: 
• • Educating employees on trade secret 
protection and risk-reduction strategies
• • Conducting Security Quality Reviews 
(SQRs) to identify critical asset risks and 
developing mitigation strategies 
• • Supporting BUs to develop risk-mitigation 
programs that comply with external and 
internal governanceThroughout 2021, we continued to harness 
a virtual Security Quality Review (vSQR) 
process we developed in 2020, completing 
around 70 reviews of cross-business risks. Our 
Global Security team launched training for all 
core businesses, addressing topics related to 
Interconnected Security Services (ISS) while a 
new Technical Surveillance Countermeasures 
(TSCM) program is enhancing security 
measures for key sites. 
PROTECTING OUR EMPLOYEES
Global Communications Center (GCC) analysts 
monitor world events, providing advance 
warning of emerging threats and ensuring 
employees are safe and accounted for. Situational 
Awareness For Everyone Everywhere (SAFEE) 
training bolsters security awareness. In 2021, 
our Global Security team provided training, 
including SAFEE, to 17 ,000 employees. 
Regional security experts and our Travel 
Safety program protect employees traveling 
for work. In 2021, the program supported 
28,000 travelers.Ensuring the authenticity of our products 
is critical for maintaining trust in Abbott 
and our products. We maintain strict 
protocols for eliminating counterfeit 
products and protecting against 
security risks.
PROTECTING PRODUCT 
AUTHENTICITY 
We are continuously innovating to mitigate 
counterfeiting and illegal diversion risks. 
This is driven by our Global Security, Legal, 
Trademark, Regulatory, Public Affairs and 
Business Unit (BU) teams.
Our enforcement program removes thousands 
of fraudulent online marketplace listings 
for counterfeit and diverted products every 
month. The Global Security team uses state-
of-the-art analytics to identify and eliminate 
unauthorized sales. In 2021, we removed 
16,692 marketplaces, apps, websites and social 
media sites selling counterfeit, diverted, 
outdated and stolen products, and 218,128 
individual product listings. SECURING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
We are committed to eliminating criminal 
activities, including drug trafficking, terrorism, 
human trafficking, forced child labor, cyber 
threats and illegal contraband from our supply 
chain. We comply with all international 
customs laws, and carefully choose our 
partners to prevent unethical practices and 
security threats. 
Our efforts exceed U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection (CBP) enhanced Customs Trade 
Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT) 
Minimum Security Criteria (MSC). We 
partner with CBP and an external vendor on 
a surveillance system that mitigates theft, 
counterfeiting and illegal diversion risks. 
Additionally, we remain a Tier 3 CTPAT 
partner, enabling movement of products in 
and out of the U.S. with expedited processing 
and 80% fewer customs exams. Many Abbott 
businesses also participate in the Authorized 
Economic Operator program. A Strategic Approach  
to Product and Brand 
Protection
Our enforcement program is built on 
industry best practices and ensures 
we address the most significant risks. 
Enforcement tactics include:
• • Covert market surveys
• • Removing counterfeit products 
and sites 
• • Halting sale of 
unauthorized products 
• • Providing contract security 
language and enforcing policies 
with authorized resellers
• • Identifying and removing illicit 
actors via paid searches
• • Reporting fake social 
media accounts 
• • Eliminating illegitimate and 
cybersquatted sites that could 
harm the Abbott brand 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 GOVERNANCE
83Securing Our BinaxNOW Supply Chain 
Ensuring customers always receive legitimate Abbott 
goods requires that we track our products at every 
step of the value chain. 
Throughout 2021, we performed robust supply chain 
risk management processes for our BinaxNOW tests. 
This included securing over 8,000 shipments to 
successfully deliver almost 1 billion tests. To prevent 
fraudulent sales, we removed 70,000 listings selling 
illicit tests on e-commerce sites. We also partnered 
with eBay to ensure all test kits were automatically 
detected and taken down. 
These steps helped guarantee that the products 
customers received were legitimate, safe and 
effective, and prevented $4.6 million in losses 
for Abbott. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 GOVERNANCE
84Public Policy Engagement 
Public policy can be a great enabler 
of societal health. Abbott’s diverse 
businesses help us have a substantial 
positive impact, but they also increase 
the complexity of our interactions 
with policymakers, trade associations 
and thought leaders as we work to 
encourage policies that support access to 
our innovations. 
ENGAGING ON POLICY 
SOLUTIONS 
We connect with various organizations to 
identify solutions to complex healthcare issues. 
Three internal principles ensure engagement 
on policy developments complies with our own 
standards as well as relevant laws: 
• • We commit to ethical behavior and 
transparency, guided by our Code of 
Business Conduct in all our activities, 
including public policy engagement. Public 
policy activities comply with all applicable 
laws and regulations and adhere to Abbott 
policies. Abbott, relevant Abbott employees, 
and external lobbyists and firms register as 
lobbyists and file lobbying and contribution 
disclosures as required by applicable law.• • We pursue activities to shape policies that 
impact our company and benefit the people 
who need our products, with a focus on 
improving access to new medical advances 
and helping people live fuller, healthier lives.
The Board of Directors’ Public Policy Committee 
has lead oversight of our Government Affairs 
function and public policy issues that could 
impact our business, performance and public 
image. This includes reviewing and evaluating 
our governmental affairs and political 
participation, including advocacy priorities, 
political contributions, lobbying activities and 
trade association memberships. 
PARTICIPATION IN  
POLITICAL ACTIVITY 
We contribute to U.S. state and local 
candidates and political organizations 
through our Abbott Employee Political Action 
Committee (AEPAC). We support those 
that we believe understand the impact of 
government actions on medical access, and 
those that will promote environments that 
foster continued medical progress. 
Abbott’s Government Affairs function reviews 
and approves all U.S. political contributions 
and advocacy activities. It covers direct advocacy at the federal, state and local levels 
as well as managing Abbott’s relationships 
with trade associations and similar groups. 
Further oversight of advocacy at the state 
level is provided by our State Government 
Affairs function while activities with the U.S. 
Congress and the federal government fall 
under our Federal Government Affairs office. 
In the U.S., in compliance with the Lobbying 
Disclosure Act, Abbott files a quarterly report 
that includes the following: 
• • Total federal lobbying expenditures 
• • The name of the specific legislation 
or subject that was the topic of 
communication
• • Disclosure of Abbott individuals who 
lobbied on our behalf 
• • Identification of the legislative body or 
executive branch that was contacted 
In 2021, Abbott reported $4,210,000 in U.S. 
federal lobbying. 
Read more about public policy engagement  
on the Corporate Political Participation page  
of our website.U.S. TRADE ORGANIZATIONS 
We are a member of various U.S. trade 
organizations that engage in lobbying and 
other political activity to champion our 
needs, those of our industry and those of the 
people who rely on Abbott solutions. Our 
participation in these trade associations, and 
other tax-exempt organizations that write and 
endorse model legislation, is assessed annually 
by the Government Affairs function. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY AND SAFETY ESG APPENDIX
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 GOVERNANCE
85 
ESG  
APPENDIX
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ESG APPENDIX
86We began reporting on our sustainability 
efforts in the early 1970s, with our first 
reports focusing on community  
engagement and environmental impacts.  
As our business has grown so too has  
our approach to reporting. 
We align our annual reporting with the 
requirements of ESG ratings and sustainability 
indices, as well as providing an analysis 
of our performance. We refer to external 
standards, such as the GRI (Global Reporting 
Initiative), Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) and the World 
Resources Institute/World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). In this 
appendix you will find the following Abbott 
sustainability indices:
• • GRI from page 115
• • SASB from page 124
• • TCFD from page 130
• • Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 
from page 132Appendix
Additional sustainability reports and 
performance updates, including country 
reports for key markets, can be found on the 
Sustainability Reporting page of our website. 
SCOPE OF THIS REPORT
• • All financial information is stated in  
U.S. dollars. 
• • All data reflect Abbott’s activities, with a 
focus on 2021 results. 
• • Neither this report nor our website 
contains performance information on joint 
ventures, unless otherwise noted.
• • Select information and data calculations 
from prior years have been adjusted to 
reflect our separation from AbbVie in 
January 2013.
• • All Abbott trademarks appear in italics 
throughout this report.REPORTING FEEDBACK
Development of our sustainability strategy 
was informed by the expertise of several 
external sources. These experts also guide 
stakeholder engagements, the development of 
our Responsibility website and the production 
of this report. We gratefully acknowledge 
the counsel we receive from Corporate 
Citizenship, Flag and WBCSD, among others. 
Working with these groups better informs 
our reporting approach, keeps us abreast of 
external expectations and helps us identify 
areas of opportunity for strengthening 
stakeholder engagement.
We welcome feedback on our report. Please 
send us an email at responsibility@abbott.com  
to share yours.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE 
We engaged Apex Companies, an independent 
assurance provider, to conduct assurance  
of selected 2021 environmental and safety  
data. Our website includes a PDF of the  
Apex Assurance Statement.
 ABBOTT'S POLICIES 
Our policies help Abbott meet or exceed national and 
international standards in all countries where we operate. 
The following critical policies are published on our website: 
• • Code of Business Conduct
• • Supplier Guidelines
• • Position Statement on Conflict Minerals
• • Environmental Policy
• • Energy Policy
• • Water Policy
• • Environmental Procurement Guidelines 
• • Global Environmental, Health and  
Safety Policy
• • Anti-Corruption Training Guide for Companies Doing 
Business With Abbott
• • Clinical Trial Registrations and Results Disclosures 
• • Financial Reports for Healthcare-Related Organizations
• • Stakeholder Engagement Policy
• • Position Statement on Tax
• • Our Commitment to Cybersecurity
• • Position Statement on Human Rights
• • Global Infant Formula Marketing Policy
• • Global Animal Welfare Policies 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ESG APPENDIX
87When developing our 2030 Sustainability 
Plan, we conducted an in-depth 
materiality analysis of the environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) issues that 
are most important for our business. 
A FIVE-STEP APPROACH
Working with external consultants Corporate 
Citizenship, we developed and applied a 
comprehensive process for identifying and 
ranking our material issues. 
1  Conduct extensive research on potential 
issues: included benchmarking efforts  
against peers and competitors; tracking 
emerging issues; working with customers 
and rating and rankings organizations; and 
identifying best practices. This rigorous 
process involved detailed analysis of over  
200 sustainability topics. 
2  Stakeholder interviews: conducted 
interviews with over 100 internal and 
external stakeholders, including customers, 
suppliers, investors, healthcare providers, 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), 
sustainability experts and employees.Materiality
3  Issue ranking: using feedback from 
the interview process, our Executive 
Leadership team prioritized topics 
according to importance to stakeholders 
and importance to the future success of 
our business. Considerations included the 
relationship of each issue to our Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) process. The 
information supported development of our 
materiality matrix and ESG topics that will 
drive our strategy over the next 5–10 years. 
4  Working groups: created working groups 
to address each priority issue. Our Finance 
and Corporate Audit teams were engaged 
to help ensure Abbott’s targets are 
integrated into our business strategy and 
financial plan.
5  Sustainability Plan summit: to define our 
2030 Sustainability Plan goals, targets 
and key performance indicators (KPIs), 
we held a day-long summit with more 
than 100 cross-company leaders. Leaders 
offered cross-business and cross-function 
representation to ensure alignment 
across the global business. Outcomes 
of the summit guide our progress, drive 
improvement and ensure Abbott’s 
future competitiveness. MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
IMPORTANCE TO FUTURE BUSINESS GROWTHIMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS  TIER 1   TIER 2   TIER 3
Animal  
WelfareClinical Trial 
Transparency
Executive 
CompensationWaterHuman RightsClimate Change
Packaging  
and Waste
Transparency  
and ReportingCorporate 
GovernanceGovernment and 
RegulationAccess and 
Affordability
TalentProduct Quality  
and SafetyInnovation
Data
Ethics and 
ComplianceSupply Chain
Cybersecurity  
and Data Privacy
Antimicrobial 
Resistance
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
88
ESG APPENDIX
We understand listening to stakeholders is 
vital to our success. That’s why Abbott is an 
active participant in global dialogs on the 
role of business in ensuring better health. 
It helps us to stay adaptable, creating local 
solutions that meet people’s changing needs 
and tackle the world’s most important health 
challenges. And it informed our 10-year 
strategy to build a stronger, more  
sustainable Abbott that better serves those 
who depend on us. 
We conduct stakeholder engagement formally 
through the associations and partnerships we are 
a member of. Informally, we also connect with 
stakeholders through a range of networks and 
organizations we participate in. 
Our local country businesses are key to preserving 
strong stakeholder relationships. Teams regularly 
review stakeholder engagement strategies, 
ensuring they align with our wider stakeholder 
engagement methodology. The outcomes of 
local engagements are reported in country-level 
citizenship reports, or at local forums. This way, we 
can keep informed of major areas of stakeholder 
concern in the regions where we operate. Stakeholder 
EngagementCUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
Our Net Promoter Score® (NPS) is an 
externally recognized metric for customer 
satisfaction. Internally, we see it as a key 
indicator of our ability to continuously meet 
customers’ needs. As an example of our 
performance, the NPS for our diagnostics 
business increased from 32.1 in 2010 to 58 
in 2021. 
GLOBAL STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
Investors
• • Investor calls 
• • In-person meetings
• • Annual Shareholders’ Meetings, quarterly 
earnings calls and conferences (full investor 
calendar webpage)
• • Investor newsletter 
• • Annual Report
• • Global Sustainability Report
• • Investor section of Abbott.com  
• • Social media (Twitter®, Facebook®, 
Instagram®, YouTube® and LinkedIn®)
• • Email alerts Customers
• • Customer meetings 
• • Customer call centers 
• • Sales ambassadors and customer  
relationship managers
• • Field service representatives 
• • Business and country representatives  
(Global Locations & Contacts webpage)
• • For Consumer and Healthcare Professionals  
sections of Abbott.com
• • Brand websites
• • Social media (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, 
YouTube and LinkedIn)
• • Focus groups 
• • Clinical trials 
Suppliers
• • Strategic partnerships 
• • Procurement specialists
• • Supplier Guidelines published in  
multiple languages
• • Supplier Diversity Policy and Program
• • Supplier Social Responsibility Program, 
including surveys• • Supplier audit programs
• • Supplier scorecards
• • Active leadership in the Diverse 
Manufacturing Supply Chain Alliance 
(DMSCA) 
• • Suppliers section of Abbott.com 
For more details, see the Supply Chain section 
(page 62 ).
Employees
• • Employee surveys
• • Annual All-Employee Meeting with our 
Chairman and CEO
• • All-employee emails from our Chairman 
and CEO
• • Business and functional town hall meetings
• • Employee networks
• • Abbott World intranet
• • Abbott World Today daily email articles
• • aLIVE smartphone app
• • Yammer® groups
• • Employee Giving Campaign
• • Internal employee volunteering website 
For more details, see our Workforce section 
(page 29 ).Governments
• • Government affairs liaison 
• • Trade associations/organizations
• • Abbott Employee Political Action  
Committee
• • Global Citizenship and Abbott  
Fund programs
• • Corporate Political Participation   
webpage 
For more details, see the Governance section 
(page 74). 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
89
ESG APPENDIX
Key Financial Metrics
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.Sales Worldwide
Dollars in Millions
$43,075
$34,608
$31,904
$30,5782021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
R&D Investment
Dollars in Millions
$2,700 
$2,420 
$2,440 
$2,3002021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
Dividends Paid
Dollars in Millions
$3,202 
$2,560 
$2,270 
$1,9742021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 Social Investing(a)
Dollars in Millions
$90.1
$75.7
$70.6
$62.72021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
U.S. Employee Giving Campaign Results
Dollars in Millions
$15.00
$7.58
$6.71
$6.582021(b)
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
90
ESG APPENDIX
Key Social Metrics
Women in Management Positions
Women in Junior Management Positions 41%
Women in Top Management Positions 32%
Women in Management Positions in Revenue-Generating Functions 40%
Full-Time Employees by Age Group
<30 Years Old 18%
30–50 Years Old 64%
>50 Years Old 18%
Employee Turnover Rate
Total Employee Turnover Rate 16%
Voluntary Employee Turnover Rate 12%
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.Employees
Total% of Management who 
are Women (U.S.)(c)% of Management who 
are Minorities (U.S.)(c)
113,000(d)43% 33%
109,000(d)42% 32%
107,000(d)41% 36%
103,000  40% 34%2021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
91
ESG APPENDIX
KEY SOCIAL METRICS CONTINUED
Lost-Time Case Rate(e)
Cases per 100 Workers(f )Total Employee  
and Contractor Employee Contractor
0.12 0.13 0.12
0.13 0.14 0.03
0.30 0.32 0.06
0.24 0.27 0.032021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 Occupational Illness Frequency Rate(e)
Illnesses per Million Hours (Employee and Contractor)
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.22021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 Recordable Injury or Illness Rate(e)
Incidents per 100 Workers(f )
0.29
0.28
0.46
0.412021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
Global Vehicle Accident Rate(e)
Accidents per Million Miles Driven (Employee Only)
Fatalities2.6
2.7
3.9
4.12021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
2018 2019 2020 2021
Total Fatalities (Employees and Contractors) 1 2 0 0
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
92
ESG APPENDIX
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 
Market-Based CO 2e Emissions(j),(k)Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2)
Location-Based CO 2e 
EmissionsPurchased Fuels (Scope 1)
CO 2e Emissions(l)Refrigerant (Scope 1)
CO 2e Emissions(m)Total Direct (Scope 1)
CO 2e EmissionsPurchased Energy (Scope 2)
Market-Based CO 2e Emissions(j),(k)Purchased Energy (Scope 2)  
Location-Based CO 2e Emissions(n)
930 1,010 524 8 533 397 478 
900 977 489 9 498 402 479 
962 1,041 530 10 540 422 502 
980 1,056 525 10 535 445 520 
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 
Market-Based CO 2e Emissions(k)Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2)
Location-Based CO 2e 
EmissionsTotal Direct (Scope 1)
CO 2e Emissions(l)Purchased Energy (Scope 2)  
Market-Based CO 2e Emissions(j),(k)Purchased Energy (Scope 2) 
Location-Based CO 2e Emissions(l)
22 23 12 9 11
26 28 14 12 14
30 33 17 13 16
32 35 18 15 17Key Environmental Metrics — Energy and Emissions
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS GLOBAL PERFORMANCE
Scope 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions
1,000 Metric Tons CO 2e
Scope 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions Intensity — Normalized to Sales
Metric Tons CO 2e per $ Million Sales
2021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 
 -17.0%(h)-5%(g)2030  
GOAL
2021
2020
2019
2018(i)  
 
 
 3.3%(h)
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
93
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Scope 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions
Established Pharmaceuticals 142 140 133 133
Nutrition 368 360 342 351
Diagnostics 96 97 100 109
Medical Devices 106 94 92 86
Corporate 267 272 232 2502018(i)2019 2020 2021
Stationary Sources
Electricity (Purchased)  439  417  397  392 
Natural Gas  384  374  370  386 
Fuel Oils  4  4  4  7 
Coal 0 0 0 0
Misc. Fuels  12  12  13  13 
Purchased Steam, Hot Water and Chilled Water  6  6  5  5 
Biofuels  0  0  0  0 
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration) 0 0 0 0
Generated Electricity (Renewables) 0 0 0 0
Stationary Total  844 813 788 804
Mobile Sources
Sales Fleet Gasoline 92 98 72 90
Sales Fleet Diesel 26 34 25 22
Aviation Fuel 6 6 4 5
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 1 2 1 1
Mobile Total 125 140 103 118Scope 1 and 2 CO 2e Emissions by Division
1,000 Metric Tons CO 2e
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Scope 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions
Established Pharmaceuticals 32 31 31 28
Nutrition 51 49 45 42 
Diagnostics 13 13 9 7
Medical Devices 9 8 8 6Scope 1 and 2 CO 2e Emissions Intensity by Division — Normalized to Sales
Metric Tons CO 2e per $Million SalesScope 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions by Energy Source(o)
1,000 Metric Tons CO 2e — Market-Based FactorsKEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS GLOBAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
94
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions 1.23 1.15 1.32 1.50
Sulfur Oxide (SOx) from Combustion 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.05
Nitrous Oxide (NOx) from Combustion 0.33 0.33 0.32 0.35
Particulate Matter 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.08Other Emissions(q)
1,000 Metric Tons
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Purchased Fuels (Scope 1)(l)  9,527  9,554  8,919  9,494 
Purchased Energy (Scope 2)(n)  4,341  4,359  4,431  4,632 
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Energy Consumption  13,869  13,913  13,350  14,126 Energy Consumption
1,000 GigajoulesScope 3 Carbon Emissions(p)
Percentage of Total Emissions
93%
93%
92%
91%2021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions 0.040 0.036 0.038 0.035
Sulfur Oxide (SOx) from Combustion 0.002 0.002 0.001 0.001
Nitrous Oxide (NOx) from Combustion 0.011 0.010 0.010 0.008
Particulate Matter 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.002Other Emissions Intensity — Normalized to Sales(q)
Metric Tons per $ Million Sales
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Purchased Fuels (Scope 1)(l) 312 299 258 221
Purchased Energy (Scope 2)(n) 142 137 128 108
Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Energy Consumption 454 436 386 328Energy Consumption Intensity — Normalized to Sales
Gigajoules per $ Million SalesBiogenic Emissions
Metric Tons
895
927
1,057
1,0192021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS GLOBAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
95
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Stationary Sources
Electricity (Purchased)  4,226  4,251  4,341  4,538 
Natural Gas  7,241  7,064  6,976  7,290 
Fuel Oils  56  51  53  95 
Coal 0 0 0 0
Misc. Fuels  140  149  159  170 
Purchased Steam, Hot Water and Chilled Water  115  108  91  94 
Biofuels  9  10  8  8 
Generated Electricity (Cogeneration)  236  231  213  196 
Generated Electricity (Renewables)  5  4  5  7 
Stationary Total  12,028  11,867  11,846  12,398 
Mobile Sources
Sales Fleet Gasoline 1,360 1,448 1,071 1,326
Sales Fleet Diesel 367 482 353 315
Aviation Fuel 95 93 61 69
Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline, E85, Propane) 19 22 19 18
Mobile Total 1,840 2,045 1,504 1,7282018(i)2019 2020 2021
Generated On-Site from Renewables 5 4 5 7
Purchased Renewables from Third Party 542 545 605 678
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Grid-Sourced Electricity 3,684 3,706 3,736 3,859
Renewable Energy  542  545  605  678 
Electricity Consumed Total  4,226  4,251  4,341  4,538 
% of Grid-Sourced Electricity 87% 87% 86% 85%
% of Renewable Energy Purchased 13% 13% 14% 15%Energy Consumption by Source(o)
1,000 GigajoulesRenewable Electricity 
Energy Consumed (1,000 Gigajoules)
Electricity Consumption by Type
Purchased Energy Consumed (1,000 Gigajoules)
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS GLOBAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUEDKEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS GLOBAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
96
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
China 30 31 31 34
India 34 38 38 41
Indonesia 3 4 4 4
Japan 2 2 3 2
Korea (South) 3 2 3 4
Malaysia 9 9 9 9
Pakistan 24 23 25 26
Singapore 45 44 43 44
Vietnam 3 3 4 3
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 81 74 58 66
Region Total 234 230 218 234
Caribbean and Latin America
Argentina 7 7 7 5
Brazil 6 6 4 5
Chile 3 3 3 0
Colombia 3 3 3 4
Costa Rica 1 0 1 0
Mexico 13 13 13 13
Peru 2 2 1 1
Puerto Rico 11 10 13 13
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 21 24 25 16
Region Total 67 68 71 592018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Belgium 0 0 0 0
Germany 16 17 12 13
Ireland 31 31 30 31
Netherlands 35 31 31 34
Norway 0 2 2 0
Russia 27 23 22 22
Spain 10 10 9 9
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 12 12 11 11
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 38 41 34 35
Region Total 169 167 152 155
North America
Canada 15 17 13 15
U.S. 456 432 411 415
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 39 49 35 51
Region Total 510 497 459 481
Total for All Regions 980 962 900 930Scope 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions by Region
1,000 Metric Tons CO 2e — Market-Based (Corporate Emission Factors)KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS REGIONAL PERFORMANCE
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
97
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
China 7 8 7 9
India 15 17 16 18
Indonesia 1 1 1 1
Japan 0 0 0 0
Korea (South) 0 0 0 0
Malaysia 0 0 0 0
Pakistan 20 20 21 20
Singapore 23 22 22 23
Vietnam 0 0 0 0
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 41 44 35 41
Region Total 107 112 102 112
Caribbean and Latin America
Argentina 2 3 3 3
Brazil 4 4 3 3
Chile 0 0 0 0
Colombia 1 1 1 1
Costa Rica 0 0 0 0
Mexico 13 13 13 13
Peru 0 0 0 0
Puerto Rico 1 0 1 0
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 17 18 13 14
Region Total 38 40 34 342018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Belgium 0 0 0 0
Germany 11 12 11 12
Ireland 30 31 30 31
Netherlands 35 31 31 34
Norway – – 0 0
Russia 17 13 13 11
Spain 4 4 5 6
United Kingdom 3 3 3 3
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 33 36 29 30
Region Total 134 131 122 127
North America
Canada 9 10 9 12
U.S. 209 205 200 210
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 37 42 31 38
Region Total 255 257 240 260
Total for All Regions 535 540 498 533Scope 1 (Direct) Carbon Emissions by Region
1,000 Metric Tons CO 2e — Market-Based (Corporate Emission Factors)KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS REGIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
98
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
China 23 23 23 25
India 19 22 22 23
Indonesia 3 3 3 3
Japan 2 2 3 2
Korea (South) 2 2 3 4
Malaysia 9 9 9 9
Pakistan 3 4 5 6
Singapore 22 21 21 21
Vietnam 3 2 4 3
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 40 30 23 25
Region Total 126 118 115 122
Caribbean and Latin America
Argentina 5 5 4 3
Brazil 1 2 2 2
Chile 3 3 2 0
Colombia 3 2 2 3
Costa Rica 0 0 0 0
Mexico 0 0 0 1
Peru 1 1 1 1
Puerto Rico 11 10 12 13
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 4 6 12 3
Region Total 28 28 36 252018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Belgium 0 0 0 0
Germany 5 5 2 2
Ireland 0 0 0 0
Netherlands 0 0 0 0
Norway 0 2 2 0
Russia 10 9 10 10
Spain 6 6 4 3
Switzerland 0 0 0 0
United Kingdom 9 9 8 7
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 5 5 5 5
Region Total 35 36 30 28
North America
Canada 6 6 4 3
U.S. 247 227 211 205
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 2 7 5 13
Region Total 255 240 220 221
Total for All Regions 445 422 402 397Scope 2 (Purchased Energy) Carbon Emissions by Region
1,000 Metric Tons CO 2e — Market-Based (Corporate Emission Factors)
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS REGIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
99
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
China 282 284 287 309
India 360 401 399 433
Indonesia 21 27 26 24
Japan 15 15 18 18
Korea (South) 37 37 52 66
Malaysia 48 50 51 52
Pakistan 414 392 432 387
Singapore 604 593 588 605
Vietnam 24 26 32 19
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 876 846 672 775
Region Total 2,681 2,672 2,557 2,688
Caribbean and Latin America
Argentina 82 92 96 89
Brazil 139 139 103 115
Chile 28 31 26 26
Colombia 58 63 70 69
Costa Rica 106 109 106 106
Mexico 279 280 279 277
Peru 21 22 24 25
Puerto Rico 121 103 109 105
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 292 324 318 260
Region Total 1,126 1,162 1,131 1,0732018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Belgium 3 3 3 3
Germany 321 315 304 324
Ireland 749 771 768 789
Netherlands 922 854 849 898
Norway 21 21 19 21
Russia 385 329 320 302
Spain 130 127 140 146
Switzerland 2 2 2 2
United Kingdom 140 133 131 140
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 559 597 498 515
Region Total 3,233 3,153 3,034 3,139
North America
Canada 312 343 323 363
U.S. 5,949 5,895 5,804 6,149
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 568 688 502 714
Region Total 6,829 6,926 6,629 7,226
Total for All Regions 13,869 13,913 13,350 14,126Total Energy Consumption (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by Region 
1,000 Gigajoules
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS REGIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
100
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
China 125 125 123 136
India 211 238 237 263
Indonesia 9 11 12 11
Japan 0 0 0 0
Korea (South) 2 3 3 6
Malaysia 1 1 1 1
Pakistan 382 360 389 327
Singapore 401 400 392 407
Vietnam 1 3 3 2
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 633 658 520 612
Region Total 1,764 1,798 1,679 1,765
Caribbean and Latin America
Argentina 38 43 50 46
Brazil 98 92 40 56
Chile 4 6 5 1
Colombia 12 14 17 16
Costa Rica 4 3 3 2
Mexico 278 278 275 272
Peru 3 3 4 4
Puerto Rico 10 5 13 6
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 253 272 205 205
Region Total 701 716 611 6092018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Belgium 1 1 1 1
Germany 213 207 198 215
Ireland 594 613 603 619
Netherlands 623 556 550 599
Norway – – 0 0
Russia 288 234 224 202
Spain 73 69 97 103
United Kingdom 56 52 50 55
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 483 528 418 438
Region Total 2,331 2,259 2,140 2,233
North America
Canada 162 182 168 201
U.S. 4,018 3,975 3,863 4,106
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 551 624 458 581
Region Total 4,731 4,781 4,489 4,887
Total for All Regions 9,527 9,554 8,919 9,494Energy Consumption — Purchased Fuels (Scope 1) by Region 
1,000 Gigajoules
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS REGIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
101
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
China 157 159 163 173
India 149 163 163 171
Indonesia 12 16 14 13
Japan 15 15 18 18
Korea (South) 35 35 49 60
Malaysia 47 49 50 51
Pakistan 32 32 43 59
Singapore 202 194 196 198
Vietnam 23 24 29 17
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 244 188 152 163
Region Total 916 874 878 924
Caribbean and Latin America
Argentina 43 48 46 43
Brazil 41 47 63 59
Chile 24 25 21 24
Colombia 46 49 53 53
Costa Rica 102 106 103 104
Mexico 1 2 3 5
Peru 18 19 20 21
Puerto Rico 112 98 97 99
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 39 52 113 55
Region Total 425 446 520 4642018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Belgium 2 2 2 1
Germany 107 108 106 109
Ireland 155 158 165 170
Netherlands 299 298 299 298
Norway 21 21 19 21
Russia 97 95 96 101
Spain 57 59 43 43
Switzerland 2 2 2 2
United Kingdom 85 81 81 85
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 76 69 80 77
Region Total 902 894 894 906
North America
Canada 149 161 155 163
U.S. 1,931 1,920 1,941 2,043
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 17 64 44 133
Region Total 2,097 2,145 2,140 2,339
Total for All Regions 4,341 4,359 4,431 4,632Energy Consumption — Purchased Energy (Scope 2) by Region 
1,000 Gigajoules
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS REGIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
102
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
Generated On-Site from Renewables 3 3 3 4
Renewables Generated by Third Party 0 0 2 0
Region Total 3 3 6 4
Caribbean and Latin America
Generated On-Site from Renewables 1 1 1 1
Renewables Generated by Third Party 0 0 2 33
Region Total 1 1 3 332018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Generated On-Site from Renewables 1 1 2 2
Renewables Generated by Third Party 492 496 558 583
Region Total 492 497 560 585
North America
Renewables Generated by Third Party 50 48 42 63
Region Total 50 48 42 63
Total for All Regions 546 549 611 685Electricity From Renewable Energy Sources by Region 
1,000 Gigajoules 
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CONTINUED
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS REGIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
103
ESG APPENDIX
Key Environmental Metrics — Water
WATER GLOBAL PERFORMANCE
Water Intake
Billion Gallons
Water Discharged Intensity — Normalized to Sales 
Gallons per $1,000 SalesWater Discharged 
Billion Gallons
2018(i)2019 2020 2021% Change From 
2020 to 2021
Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 2.37 2.44 2.33 2.48 +6%
Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 0.49 0.49 0.51 0.53 +4%2018(i)2019 2020 2021% Change From 
2020 to 2021
Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 78 76 67 58 -14%
Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 16 15 15 12 -17%3.65
3.51
3.54
3.562021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 
 
Water Intake Intensity — Water-Stressed Sites — Normalized to Sales(r) 
Gallons per $1,000 Sales
33*
40*
44*
47*2021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 
 -18%(g)+4%(g)Water Intake Intensity — Normalized to Sales
Gallons per $1,000 Sales
85*
101*
111*
116*2021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 
 -16%(g)
Water Intake — Water-Stressed Sites(r) 
Billion Gallons
1.42
1.39
1.40
1.452021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 
 +2%(g)
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
* These values were updated 02/2023 to correct an identified error in 
unit measurement.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
104
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Total Water Intake 13,479.4 13,402.2 13,285.0 13,808.3Water Withdrawal(s) 
Thousand Cubic Meters
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Total Water Intake 441 420 384 321Water Withdrawal Intensity — Normalized to Sales(s) 
Cubic Meters per $1,000 Sales2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Water Consumed in Process 2,668.3 2,306.7 2,524.4 2,418.7Water Consumed 
Thousand Cubic Meters
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Water Consumed in Process 87 72 73 56Water Consumed Intensity — Normalized to Sales 
Cubic Meters per $1,000 Sales
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Recycled Water 0.39 0.32 0.41 0.32Water Recycled 
Billion Gallons
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Fresh Surface Water 0.13 0.13 0.14 0.14
Groundwater 0.62 0.62 0.63 0.67
Municipal Supply 2.79 2.78 2.73 2.83
Rainwater 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Other 0.003 0.003 0.001 0.0004
Total Water Intake 3.56 3.54 3.51 3.65Water Withdrawal by Source(s) 
Billion GallonsKEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — WATER CONTINUED
WATER GLOBAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
Water Consumed in Process 
Billion Gallons
2018(i)2019 2020 2021% Change From 
2020 to 2021
Total Water Consumed 0.71 0.61 0.67 0.64 -4%Water Consumed in Process Intensity — Normalized to Sales 
Gallons per $1,000 Sales
2018(i)2019 2020 2021% Change From 
2020 to 2021
Total Water Consumed 23 19 19 15 -23%
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
105
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
China 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.10
India 0.14 0.15 0.14 0.15
Indonesia 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Japan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Korea (South) 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Malaysia 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02
Pakistan 0.15 0.14 0.14 0.16
Singapore 0.20 0.19 0.20 0.21
Vietnam 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Region Total 0.63 0.61 0.61 0.67
Caribbean and Latin America
Argentina 0.04 0.05 0.04 0.04
Brazil 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Chile 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01
Colombia 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Costa Rica 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.03
Mexico 0.03 0.04 0.03 0.03
Peru 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.01
Puerto Rico 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Region Total 0.18 0.20 0.18 0.172018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Belgium 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Germany 0.04 0.05 0.05 0.05
Ireland 0.19 0.18 0.18 0.19
Netherlands 0.37 0.35 0.36 0.37
Norway 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Russia 0.09 0.06 0.06 0.05
Spain 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.08
Switzerland 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Region Total 0.76 0.71 0.73 0.75
North America
Canada 0.20 0.22 0.20 0.23
U.S. 1.78 1.80 1.78 1.82
Region Total 1.99 2.02 1.98 2.06
Total for All Regions 3.56 3.54 3.51 3.65Water Intake by Region 
Billion GallonsKEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — WATER CONTINUED
WATER REGIONAL PERFORMANCE
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
106
ESG APPENDIX
Key Environmental Metrics — Waste
WASTE GLOBAL PERFORMANCE
Total Waste Intensity — Normalized to Sales(v)
U.S. Tons per $ Million SalesDiversion Rate(t),(u)
Percentages 
88.5%
88.7%
90.2%
87.6%
1.8
1.9
2.2
2.22021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 -0.3%(h)
2021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 TotalTotal Waste  
Not LandfilledTotal Waste  
LandfilledTotal Waste  
Recycled
76,490 57,793 18,697 38,317
67,194 50,792 16,402 31,292
70,219 53,635 16,583 30,294
66,087 47,982 18,105 28,949Total Waste(v)
U.S. Tons13.8%(h)
2021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 
  -8.6%(h)
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
107
ESG APPENDIX
KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — WASTE CONTINUED
WASTE GLOBAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
Hazardous Waste  
Not LandfilledHazardous Waste  
LandfilledTotal  
Hazardous Waste
8,374 198 8,572
9,561 1,611 11,172
7,793 569 8,362
6,696 560 7,256Total Hazardous Waste(v) 
U.S. Tons — Manufacturing, Commercial, Noncommercial
2021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 
Nonhazardous Waste  
Not LandfilledNonhazardous Waste  
LandfilledTotal  
Nonhazardous Waste
49,419 18,499 67,918
41,231 14,791 56,022
45,840 16,016 61,856
41,287 17,545 58,833Total Nonhazardous Waste(v)
U.S. Tons — Manufacturing, Commercial, Noncommercial20%(h)
2021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 
  
Total Nonhazardous Waste Intensity — Normalized to Sales(v)
U.S. Tons per $ Million Sales
1.58
1.62
1.94
1.922021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 
 -3%(h)Total Hazardous Waste Intensity — Normalized to Sales(v) 
U.S. Tons per $ Million Sales
0.20
0.32
0.26
0.242021
2020
2019
2018(i) 
 
 
 -38%(h)
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.-23%(h)
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
108
ESG APPENDIX
 Quantity 
(U.S. Tons)  % 
Cafeteria 1,549 1%
Construction & Demolition 5,191 4%
Nutrition Waste 77,437 65%
Corrugate/Cardboard 1,476 1%
Wood 5,531 5%
Production Waste 7,864 7%
Production Byproduct 7,105 6%
Other 12,816 11%
Total Beneficial Use 118,970 100%2018(i,x)2019 2020 2021
Landfilled 27.9% 23.6% 24.4% 24.4%
Incinerated without Energy 3.8% 3.9% 4.8% 5.1%
Incinerated with Energy 19.9% 27.0% 21.5% 18.8%
Recycled 44.3% 43.1% 46.6% 50.1%
Other, Not Landfilled 4.2% 2.4% 2.7% 1.6% 2021 Beneficial Use by Waste Type(w) 
U.S. Tons/PercentagesBreakdown of Waste by Fate(u) 
Percentages
2019 2020 2021
Total Resold 73 61 67
Total Recycled 150 177 212IT Equipment Resold and Recycled 
U.S. TonsKEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — WASTE CONTINUED
WASTE GLOBAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
Beneficial Use(w),(u) 
U.S. Tons
118,970
106,887
126,512
97,8072021
2020
2019
2018 
 
 
 
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
109
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
China 2,903 2,952 1,565 2,038
India 2,170 2,532 2,809 3,732
Indonesia 28 26 20 23
Japan 561 612 604 641
Korea (South) 581 581 755 1,715
Malaysia 142 120 104 118
Pakistan 662 610 574 633
Singapore 2,648 2,127 2,166 2,150
Vietnam 70 82 78 92
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 1,569 2,219 2,162 1,695
Region Total 11,334 11,861 10,836 12,836
Caribbean and Latin America
Argentina 498 592 530 566
Brazil 637 709 760 872
Chile 633 617 513 517
Colombia 1,638 1,666 1,674 1,486
Costa Rica 1,593 1,369 1,138 1,180
Mexico 459 401 363 276
Peru 339 322 312 306
Puerto Rico 726 543 452 408
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 658 459 368 356
Region Total 7,180 6,678 6,109 5,9672018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Belgium 382 433 325 328
Germany 3,062 3,457 3,309 3,334
Ireland 4,016 8,057 3,357 3,428
Netherlands 4,653 5,797 6,313 5,896
Norway 356 356 334 413
Russia 1,072 963 4,879 4,931
Spain 1,238 973 907 1,181
Switzerland 40 45 37 36
United Kingdom 1,006 1,162 1,076 1,015
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 739 810 726 596
Region Total 16,563 22,050 21,262 21,158
North America
Canada 728 828 822 819
U.S. 30,153 28,498 27,721 35,235
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 129 303 444 474
Region Total 31,011 29,629 28,987 36,529
Total for All Regions 66,087 70,219 67,194 76,490Total Waste by Region(u) 
U.S. TonsKEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — WASTE CONTINUED
WASTE REGIONAL PERFORMANCE
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
110
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
China 68 82 143 238
India 298 490 528 733
Indonesia 14 15 14 20
Japan 31 31 35 62
Korea (South) 36 36 65 85
Malaysia 63 80 68 86
Pakistan 114 109 84 96
Singapore 19 28 14 21
Vietnam 42 51 40 49
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 157 24 158 78
Region Total 842 947 1,151 1,468
Caribbean and Latin America
Argentina 251 337 291 289
Brazil 203 342 334 319
Chile 164 299 253 264
Colombia 298 304 323 328
Costa Rica 459 442 415 377
Mexico 80 45 51 38
Peru 100 124 132 131
Puerto Rico 47 44 25 27
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 66 7 20 65
Region Total 1,668 1,944 1,845 1,8382018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Belgium 2 14 11 17
Germany 739 781 696 557
Ireland 495 595 674 750
Netherlands 1,754 2,518 2,766 2,144
Norway 32 32 27 81
Russia 298 189 2,615 295
Spain 5 5 3 5
Switzerland 0 0 0 1
United Kingdom 131 183 131 175
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 74 27 70 72
Region Total 3,530 4,345 6,994 4,096
North America
Canada 112 172 123 134
U.S. 1,091 950 941 862
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 13 5 117 173
Region Total 1,216 1,126 1,182 1,170
Total for All Regions 7,256 8,362 11,172 8,572Hazardous Waste by Region(u) 
U.S. TonsKEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — WASTE CONTINUED
WASTE REGIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
111
ESG APPENDIX
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific
China 2,835 2,870 1,421 1,800
India 1,872 2,041 2,281 2,999
Indonesia 14 11 6 3
Japan 529 581 570 579
Korea (South) 545 545 689 1,629
Malaysia 80 40 35 32
Pakistan 548 501 489 537
Singapore 2,629 2,099 2,152 2,128
Vietnam 29 31 38 42
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 1,412 2,194 2,004 1,616
Region Total 10,493 10,913 9,685 11,367
Caribbean and Latin America
Argentina 246 255 238 277
Brazil 433 367 426 553
Chile 470 317 259 253
Colombia 1,339 1,363 1,350 1,158
Costa Rica 1,134 927 723 803
Mexico 379 356 311 238
Peru 239 198 180 175
Puerto Rico 679 500 427 381
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 592 453 348 291
Region Total 5,512 4,735 4,263 4,1292018(i)2019 2020 2021
Europe
Belgium 379 419 314 311
Germany 2,323 2,676 2,613 2,778
Ireland 3,521 7,462 2,682 2,679
Netherlands 2,899 3,279 3,548 3,752
Norway 324 324 307 331
Russia 775 774 2,264 4,636
Spain 1,233 968 904 1,176
Switzerland 40 44 36 36
United Kingdom 875 978 945 840
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 665 783 655 524
Region Total 13,033 17,706 14,268 17,062
North America
Canada 617 657 699 685
U.S. 29,062 27,548 26,779 34,373
Commercial and Other Buildings Region Total 116 298 327 302
Region Total 29,795 28,503 27,805 35,359
Total for All Regions 58,833 61,856 56,022 67,918Nonhazardous Waste by Region(u) 
U.S. TonsKEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS — WASTE CONTINUED
WASTE REGIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
112
ESG APPENDIX
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Fines, Notices and Inspections
EHS FINES, NOTICES OF VIOLATION AND GOVERNMENT AGENCY INSPECTIONS
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Environmental Fines 0 16,700 0 0
Health and Safety Fines 3,000 0 1,200 0
Total EHS Fines 3,000 16,700 1,200 0
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Total EHS NOVs 7 4 5 22
2018(i)2019 2020 2021
Total EHS Inspections 148 190 187 178EHS Fines
U.S. Dollars
EHS Notices of Violation (NOVs)
EHS Government Agency Inspections(x)
Totals and percentage changes may differ from listed metrics due to 
rounding. To ensure data accuracy, the most accurate number has been used.
Refer to page 114 for endnotes.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
113
ESG APPENDIX
Metrics Endnotes
All environmental data has been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the World 
Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). We report data from 
acquisitions as soon as is practical. To that end, this data includes the acquisitions of St. Jude Medical, Glomed and Alere Inc. Furthermore, this data 
reflects the divestiture of Abbott Medical Optics.
(a) Abbott Fund
(b) 2021 marked the first year of our enhanced employee giving program. See page 35.
(c)  These percentages are as of December 31, 2020. Percentages represent a count of U.S. employees, excluding the rapid diagnostics business.
(d) This includes Alere employees.
(e)  Legacy Alere is included in Health and Safety and Scope 3 metrics beginning in 2019. 2018 metrics do not include legacy Alere.
(f)  Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees, assuming the average employee works 40 hours per week and 50 weeks per year. This is 
equivalent to 200,000 hours worked.
(g) This change represents 2021 progress toward our 2030 Goal of 30% reduction from 2018.
(h) This is the percentage change from 2020 to 2021. 
(i) This is the baseline year.
(j) Progress toward 2030 carbon goal is reported using the GHGP Scope 2 market-based methodology.
(k)  Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the GHGP market-based methodology. Per the GHGP, where market-based information is not available, 
location-based results have been used as proxy.
(l)  Reported Purchased Fuels Scope 1 sources consist of fuel consumed by manufacturing, R&D and warehouse facilities under Abbott’s control; sales 
fleet; and Abbott-owned aviation.
(m) Per the GHGP, Scope 1 Refrigerant CO 2e emissions include only those covered in the Kyoto Protocol.
(n)  Reported Scope 2 sources consist of energy directly purchased by Abbott, such as electricity, steam, and hot and chilled water, as well as emissions 
from leased locations. Unless specified otherwise, emissions are calculated according to the GHGP Scope 2 location-based method.(o)  Abbott’s nonenergy-consumption greenhouse gas emissions, such as refrigerant releases and process air emissions, are omitted. The total CO 2 
equivalents from nonenergy sources are noted in the Total Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) table.
(p)  All Scope 3 calculations are adjusted to account for updated spend metrics. Sourcing category spend allocations are subject to change year over year 
in alignment with business strategy. Legacy Alere included in metrics beginning in 2019. 2018 metrics do not include legacy Alere.
(q) This reflects emissions from fuel combusted by manufacturing, R&D and warehouse facilities under Abbott’s control.
(r)  Water-stressed locations have been determined using the WRI Aqueduct™ global water risk mapping tool. Sites rated as having high or extremely 
high baseline water stress in the tool are classified as being water stressed.
(s) Water withdrawal is equivalent to water intake.
(t)  Abbott’s diversion rate is calculated as follows: (Total Waste + Beneficial Use - Landfilled and Incineration without Energy Recovery)/Total Waste + 
Beneficial Use. Commercial and other building activities, specific to beneficial use, are included in this rate starting in 2019.
(u)  In 2018, data represents manufacturing, R&D and warehouse facilities under Abbott’s control. Nonmanufacturing data was not collected prior  
to 2019.
(v) Waste-generation data does not include materials that are reused beneficially.
(w)  Abbott defines beneficial-use activities as sending material that otherwise would have been wasted off site to be used as an effective substitute for a 
commercial product or commodity. Beneficial-use material is used as is or in substantially the same form as it was generated.
(x)  The definition of “government agency inspection” was updated in 2017 by Abbott to include routine visits and sample collection from regulatory 
agencies or designated representatives. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
114
ESG APPENDIX
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 
2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
General Disclosures
GRI 2:  
General 
Disclosures  
2021 2-1 Organizational details https://www.abbott.com/contact.html
https://www.abbott.com/global-locations-contacts.html
Form 10-K, page 20
2-2 Entities included in 
the organization’s 
sustainability reporting Global Sustainability Report 2021: Appendix, page 87
2-3 Reporting period, frequency 
and contact point January 1–December 31, 2021
responsibility@abbott.com
2-4 Restatements of information Global Sustainability Report 2021: Metrics Endnotes, page 114
2-5 External assurance Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, External Assurance, page 87
We verify our EHS performance data using an independent assurance provider: Apex 
Companies (formerly Bureau Veritas North America).
2-6 Activities, value chain and 
other business relationships At a Glance
Global Locations & Contacts
Global Sustainability Report 2021: About Abbott, page 7
Form 10-K: page 78
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Our Purpose in Action, page 4
2-7 Employees Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Social Metrics, page 91
2-8 Workers who are 
not employeesGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Build the Diverse, Innovative Workforce of Tomorrow, 
page 29
2-9 Governance structure 
and compositionGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Sustainability in Everything We Do, page 14
Proxy Statement: The Board of Directors and its Committees, pages 16–27
Board of Directors & Committees
2-10 Nomination and selection of 
the highest governance bodyBoard of Directors & Committees
Proxy Statement: The Board of Directors and its Committees, pages 16–27
2-11 Chair of the highest 
governance bodyBoard of Directors & Committees
Proxy Statement: The Board of Directors and its Committees, pages 16–272016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
GRI 2:  
General 
Disclosures  
20212-12 Role of the highest 
governance body in 
overseeing the management 
of impactsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Stakeholder Engagement, page 89
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Sustainability in Everything We Do, page 14
Proxy Statement: The Board of Directors and its Committees, pages 16–27
CDP Climate Change Response: (C1.2a)
2-13 Delegation of responsibility 
for managing impactsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Sustainability in Everything We Do, page 14
Proxy Statement: The Board of Directors and its Committees, pages 16–27
2-14 Delegation of responsibility 
for managing impactsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Governance and Sustainability Foundations, page 74
2-15 Conflicts of interest Governance Guidelines webpage: Director Responsibilities and Code of Business Conduct
2-16 Communication of 
critical concerns Proxy Statement: The Board of Directors and its Committees, pages 16–27
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Processes for Reporting Concerns, page 79
Due to confidentiality constraints, Abbott does not report the total number and nature 
of critical concerns. For more information on how we handle critical concerns as a 
company, please visit our Proxy Statement or the Governance section of our Global 
Sustainability Report, page 80 
2-17 Collective knowledge of the 
highest governance body Governance Guidelines webpage: Director Orientation and Continuing Education
Proxy Statement, page 27
Business Roundtable Meetings
2-18 Evaluation of the 
performance of the highest 
governance bodyProxy Statement: Board Evaluation Process, page 24
Proxy Statement: Compensation Link To Sustainability, pages 36–37
2-19 Remuneration policies Proxy Statement: Executive Compensation
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Compensation and Benefits, page 36
CDP Climate Change Response: (C1.3a)
2-20 Process to determine 
remunerationProxy Statement: Executive Compensation, pages 28–68
Proxy Statement: Proxy Summary, pages 8, 11, 36
2-21 Annual total 
compensation ratioProxy Statement: Executive Compensation, pages 28–68We sought to prepare this report in reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. 
Links to relevant sections in our reports and websites are included in the table below.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
115
ESG APPENDIX
2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
GRI 2:  
General 
Disclosures  
20212-22 Statement on sustainable 
development strategyGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: A Message From Our Chairman and CEO, page 3
2-23 Policy commitments Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: About Abbott, page 7
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Ethics and Integrity, page 78
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Supply Chain Governance, page 64 
About Abbott
Code of Business Conduct
Supplier Guidelines
2-24 Embedding policy 
commitments Code of Business Conduct
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Compliance, page 79
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Public Policy Engagement, page 85
2-25 Processes to remediate 
negative impactsCode of Business Conduct
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Corruption and Anti-Bribery, page 81
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking 
advice and raising concernsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Corruption and Anti-Bribery, page 81
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Diversity and Inclusion, page 32
Code of Business Conduct
2-27 Compliance with laws 
and regulationsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Investment and Compliance, page 55
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
When public disclosure criteria are met, the total amount of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings is included in our 2021 Annual Report.
2-28 Membership associations External Professional Associations, Partnerships and Events
Member of WBCSD
Partner of World Economic Forum
Conference Board
Member of AdvaMed
Business Roundtable
U.S. Chamber of Commerce
2-29 Approach to 
stakeholder engagementGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Stakeholder Engagement, page 892016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
Material Topics
GRI 3: Material  
Topics 20213-1 Process to determine 
material topicsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Stakeholder Engagement, page 89
3-2 List of material topics Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Economic
Economic performance
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Corporate Governance and Board Oversight, page 75
Annual Report 2021: Financial Report, pages 36–82
Proxy Statement: Board Oversight, pages 20–23
GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributedAnnual Report 2021, pages 37–42
201-2 Financial implications and 
other risks and opportunities 
due to climate changeGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Disclosing Climate-Related Risks and Strategies, page 45
CDP Climate Change Response: (C2.1b)
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, TCFD, pages 130–131
201-3 Defined benefit plan 
obligations and other 
retirement plansAnnual Report 2021, page 57
Proxy Statement: Pension Benefits, 61
Indirect Economic Impacts
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Community Engagement, page 35
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Innovate for Access and Affordability, page 15
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Abbott’s Community Impact, page 23GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
116
ESG APPENDIX
2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
GRI 203: 
Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts 2016203-1 Infrastructure investments 
and services supportedGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Innovate for Access and Affordability, page 15
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Our Purpose in Action, page 4
203-2 Significant indirect 
economic impactsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Our Purpose in Action, page 4
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Innovate for Access and Affordability, page 15
Form 10-K: ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, pages 9–14
Procurement Practices
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement, page 67
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Supply Chain Governance, page 64
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016204-1 Proportion of spending on 
local suppliersGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement, page 67 
Abbott does not currently track annual spend on local suppliers. 
Anti-corruption
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Compliance, page 79
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Corruption and Anti-Bribery page 81
Abbott Anti-Corruption Overview
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Corporate Governance and Board Oversight, page 75
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Ethics and Integrity, page 78
GRI 205:  
Anti-Corruption 
2016205-1 Operations assessed for risks 
related to corruptionGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Corruption and Anti-Bribery, page 81
205-2 Communication and training 
about anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Corruption and Anti-Bribery, page 81
Full- and part-time employees are assigned LERN courses based on their role and responsibilities. 
In 2021, over 104,000 employees completed lessons. The LERN curriculum also includes 
certifications on the code and conflicts of interest, with a key focus on interactions with 
healthcare professionals. All Abbott employees are expected to review and sign these annually.2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
Anti-competitive Behavior
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Compliance, page 79
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Corruption and Anti-Bribery, page 81
Abbott Anti-Corruption Overview
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Corporate Governance and Board Oversight, page 75
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Ethics and Integrity, page 78
GRI 206:  
Anti-
Competitive 
Behavior 2016206-1 Legal actions for anti-
competitive behavior, 
anti-trust, and 
monopoly practicesWhen public disclosure criteria are met, monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings are 
included in our 2021 Annual Report.
Environmental
Materials
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement, page 67
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Waste Management, page 49
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Governance, Policies and Management 
Systems, page 42
Environmental Management & Policy
Proxy Statement: Our Commitment to Sustainability, page 8
Each Abbott business sets annual environmental targets with our executive leadership, which 
we track as part of Abbott’s quarterly EHS Scorecard. This helps us maintain progress toward 
our 2030 targets and identify areas for improvement on a continuous basis.
GRI 301: 
Materials 2016301-1 Materials used by weight 
or volumeIn 2021, our Nutrition business utilized 138,000 tonnes of material to place 3.7 billion 
packages on market. In this business unit, 10% of packaging (13,800 tonnes) is from renewable 
materials and 124,200 tonnes is from non-renewable materials.
301-2 Recycled input 
materials usedIn our Nutrition business unit, 9% of packaging is made from recycled-input materials.
301-3 Reclaimed products and 
their packaging materialsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Packaging, page 52
In our Nutrition business unit, 65% of packaging is designed for recyclability. Data is collected 
using annual volumes from internal demand planning sources, applying various industry sources 
to categorize packaging as recyclable, renewable and/or using recycled content.GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
117
ESG APPENDIX
2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
Energy
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Energy and Emissions, page 43
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Governance, Policies and Management 
Systems, page 42
Environmental Management & Policy
Proxy Statement: Our Commitment to Sustainability, page 8
Independent Assurance Statement
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions 
and Energy, page 93
GRI 302: 
Energy 2016302-1 Energy consumption within 
the organizationGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions 
and Energy, page 93
302-2 Energy consumption outside 
of the organizationAbbott does not currently report on energy consumption outside of the organization.
302-3 Energy intensity Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions 
and Energy, page 93
302-4 Reduction of 
energy consumptionGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Energy and Emissions, page 43
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions 
and Energy, page 93 ]
Water
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Governance, Policies and Management 
Systems, page 42
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Protecting Water Resources, page 46
Environmental Management & Policy
Proxy Statement: Our Commitment to Sustainability, page 8
Independent Assurance Statement
GRI 303:  
Water and 
Effluents 2018303-1 Interactions with water as a 
shared resourceGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Protecting Water Resources, page 46
CDP Water Response: pages 9, 12
303-2 Management of water 
discharge-related impactsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Protecting Water Resources, page 46
CDP Water Response, page 42016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
GRI 303:  
Water and 
Effluents 2018303-3 Water withdrawal Global Sustainability Report 2021: Protecting Water Resources, page 46
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Water, page 104
CDP Water Response, page 4
303-4 Water discharge Global Sustainability Report 2021: Protecting Water Resources, page 46
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Water, page 104
CDP Water Response, page 4
303-5 Water consumption Global Sustainability Report 2021: Protecting Water Resources, page 46
CDP Water Response, page 4
Emissions
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Energy and Emissions, page 43
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Governance, Policies and Management 
Systems, page 42
Environmental Management & Policy
Proxy Statement: Our Commitment to Sustainability, page 8
Independent Assurance Statement
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 
GHG emissionsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Energy and Emissions, page 43
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions 
and Energy, page 93
CDP Climate Change Response: (C6.1)
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 
GHG emissionsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Energy and Emissions, page 43
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions 
and Energy, page 93
CDP Climate Change Response: (C6.2)
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 
GHG emissionsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Energy and Emissions, page 43
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions 
and Energy, page 93
CDP Climate Change Response: (C6.5)
305-4 GHG emissions intensity CDP Climate Change Response: (C6.10)
305-5 Reduction of 
GHG emissionsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Energy and Emissions, page 43
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions 
and Energy, page 93
CDP Climate Change Response: (C7.9a)GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
118
ESG APPENDIX
2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting 
substances (ODS)Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions 
and Energy, page 93
CDP Climate Change Response: (C7.1a)
The production of some Abbott products involves substances that are ozone-depleting or 
classified as hazardous or toxic air pollutants (HAPs) by the Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA). We require all Abbott facilities using these substances to take all necessary steps 
to ensure the protection of human health and the environment. This includes adhering to 
all applicable regulations, as well as to Abbott technical standards. Our Supplier Guidelines 
establish that the same standards are expected of all Abbott suppliers.
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), 
sulfur oxides (SOx), 
and other significant 
air emissionsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Energy and Emissions, page 43
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Emissions 
and Energy, page 93
CDP Climate Change & Response
Effluents and Waste
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Waste Management, page 49
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Governance, Policies and Management 
Systems, page 42
Environmental Management & Policy
Proxy Statement: Our Commitment to Sustainability, page 8
Independent Assurance Statement
GRI 306:  
Waste 2018306-1 Waste generation and 
significant waste-
related impactsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Waste Management, page 49
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement, page 67
306-2 Management of significant 
waste-related impactsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Waste Management, page 49
306-3 Waste generated Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Waste, 
page 107
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Waste Management, page 49
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Global Sustainability Report 2021: Waste Management, page 49
We are initially prioritizing reducing the proportion classified as hazardous (around 11.2% of our 
waste footprint). The waste-management standard we follow details requirements for storing, 
segregating, labeling and documenting hazardous and chemical waste, and for decontaminating 
biohazardous waste prior to final disposal. It also requires that all Abbott employees and 
contract workers complete annual training before undertaking responsibility for hazardous-
waste management.2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
GRI 306:  
Waste 2018306-5 Waste directed to disposal Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Environmental Metrics — Waste, page 107
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Waste Management, page 49
Environmental Compliance
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Investment and Compliance, page 55
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Governance, Policies and Management 
Systems, page 42
Environmental Management & Policy
Proxy Statement: Our Commitment to Sustainability, page 8
Independent Assurance Statement
GRI 307: 
Environmental 
Compliance 
2016307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws 
and regulationsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Investment and Compliance, page 55
Supplier Environmental Assessment
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement, page 67
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Governance, Policies and Management 
Systems, page 42
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Investment and Compliance, page 55
Environmental Management & Policy
Proxy Statement: Our Commitment to Sustainability, page 8
GRI 308: 
Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 
2016308-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using 
environmental criteria100% of suppliers assessed for sustainability risk in 2021, page 63
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Our Approach to Supply Chain Management, page 63
308-2 Negative environmental 
impacts in the supply chain 
and actions takenGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement, page 67GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
119
ESG APPENDIX
2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
Social
Employment
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Talent Management, page 31
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Talent Management, Our Management Approach, page 31
Code of Business Conduct
Proxy Statement: Our Commitment to Sustainability, page 8
GRI 401: 
Employment 
2016401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnoverGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Talent Management, Our Management Approach, page 31
401-2 Benefits provided to full-
time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or 
part-time employeesGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Compensation and Benefits, page 36
401-3 Parental leave In the U.S., in early 2021, we launched a comprehensive childcare program and parenting 
benefits site, which offer direct access to Abbott’s many benefits for parents and parents-to-
be, such as tutoring and childcare services. In 2021, 1,222 employees took parental leave. 44% 
(540 employees) were women and 56% (682 employees) were men.
Abbott does not track return and retention rates by leave usage.
Labor/Management Relations
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Talent Management, page 31
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Talent Management, Our Management Approach, page 31
Code of Business Conduct
Benefits
Proxy Statement: Our Commitment to Sustainability, page 8
GRI 402:  
Labor/
Management 
Relations 2016402-1 Minimum notice 
periods regarding 
operational changes We treat all individuals with respect and communicate openly and with as much notice as 
practical given varying circumstances. We follow WARN in the U.S. as it applies; however, we 
do not have a minimum number of weeks for timing.2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
Global Sustainability Report 2021: A Strategic Approach to Product and Brand 
Protection, page 83
Global Environment, Health and Safety Standards
Proxy Statement: Our Commitment to Sustainability, page 8
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety 2018403-1 Occupational health and 
safety management systemGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, Our Management 
Approach, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
403-2 Hazard identification, 
risk assessment, and 
incident investigationGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
403-3 Occupational health services Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, Occupational Health 
Services, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
403-4 Worker participation, 
consultation, and 
communication on 
occupational health  
and safetyGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, Occupational Health 
Services, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
403-5 Worker training on 
occupational health  
and safetyGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
403-6 Promotion of worker health Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
403-7 Prevention and mitigation 
of occupational health and 
safety impacts directly linked 
by business relationshipsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
120
ESG APPENDIX
2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety 2018403-8 Workers covered by an 
occupational health and 
safety management systemGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
100% of employees and contractors are covered by this management system. Our data has 
been audited internally by the Governance group and verified by an external auditor.
403-9 Work-related injuries Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, Our 2021 
Performance, page 39
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
Global Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Key Social Metrics, page 91
Our 2021 lost-time case rate target was 0.12 per 100 workers, which includes employees 
and contract workers. Abbott reports case rates per 100 workers, equivalent to 200,000 
hours worked.
Abbott does not track data according to GRI’s definition of “high-consequence” injuries. 
Our recordable case rate incidents include any work-related injuries resulting in death, 
days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond 
first aid, loss of consciousness, and significant illness or injury diagnosed by a licensed 
healthcare professional.
403-10 Work-related ill health Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, Increasingly Robust 
Standards, page 39
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
Training and Education
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Talent Management, page 31
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Quality Management, page 56
Global Sustainability Report 2021: A Strategic Approach to Product and Brand 
Protection, page 83
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Corruption and Anti-Bribery, page 81
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Environmental Governance, page 42
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Talent Management, Our Management Approach, page 312016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
GRI 404: 
Training and 
Education 2016404-1 Average hours of training per 
year per employeeGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Talent Management, Our 2021 Performance, page 31 
404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Supply Chain Governance, page 64
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Talent Management, page 31
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Health and Safety, page 38
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Well-Being, page 37
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Quality Management, page 56
Global Sustainability Report 2021: A Strategic Approach to Product and Brand 
Protection, page 83
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Corruption and Anti-Bribery, page 81
404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular 
performance and career 
development reviewsAll of our corporate employees receive performance reviews, and we work with our 
manufacturing and distribution employees on development plans. 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Diversity and Inclusion, page 32
Supplier Diversity Program
Proxy Statement: Board Oversight, pages 20–23
GRI 405: 
Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 
2016405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employeesGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Board Composition and Diversity, page 76
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Diversity and Inclusion, page 32
Proxy Statement: Board Diversity and Composition, page 18
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and 
remuneration of women 
to menAbbott does not currently report this data. 
Child Labor
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Supplier Guidelines
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Protecting Our People, Products and Brands, Securing 
Our Supply Chain, page 83
Proxy Statement: Board Oversight, pages 20–23GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
121
ESG APPENDIX
2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
GRI 408:  
Child Labor 
2016408-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents 
of child laborGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Protecting Our People, Products and Brands, Securing 
Our Supply Chain, page 83
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Supply Chain, Guiding Responsible Suppliers, page 65
At this time, we are unable to disclose data around high-risk operations or suppliers.
Forced or Compulsory Labor
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Supplier Guidelines
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Protecting Our People, Products and Brands, Securing 
Our Supply Chain, page 83
Proxy Statement: Board Oversight, pages 20–23
GRI 409: 
Forced or 
Compulsory 
Labor 2016409-1 Operations and suppliers 
at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or 
compulsory laborGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Supply Chain, Guiding Responsible Suppliers, page 65
Abbott does not currently report data on the operations and suppliers considered to have 
significant risk for incidents of forced labor. 
Human Rights Assessment
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Diversity and Inclusion, page 32
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Our Approach to Supply Chain Management, page 63
Position Statement on Human Rights
GRI 412: 
Human Rights 
Assessment 
2016412-1 Operations that have 
been subject to human 
rights reviews or 
impact assessmentsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement, page 67
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Corruption and Anti-Bribery, page 81
412-2 Employee training on human 
rights policies or procedures100% of our procurement professionals are trained on our supplier guidelines that address 
human rights and labor expectations in our supply chain. At this time, Abbott does not disclose 
other human rights policies and procedure trainings for all employees, but we are working to 
disclose this data in the future. 
412-3 Significant investment 
agreements and contracts 
that include human rights 
clauses or that underwent 
human rights screeningGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Supply Chain, Guiding Responsible Suppliers, page 652016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
Local Communities
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88 
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Community Engagement, page 35
Proxy Statement: Board Oversight, pages 20–23
GRI 413:  
Local 
Communities 
2016413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and 
development programsGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Community Engagement, page 35
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Welcome, page 2
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Our Approach to Access and Affordability, page 16
413-2 Operations with significant 
actual and potential 
negative impacts on 
local communitiesGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Employee Community Engagement, page 35
Supplier Social Assessment 
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement, page 67
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Strategic Supply Chain Initiatives, page 70
Supplier Diversity Program
Proxy Statement: Board Oversight, pages 20–23
GRI 414: 
Supplier Social 
Assessment 
2016414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteriaGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement, page 67 
Although Abbott does not currently disclose the exact number of new suppliers and number 
of negative impacts identified, we are working toward the goal of having 80% of newly 
contracted direct material spend incorporate social responsibility requirements. See more 
about how we have updated the language in our social responsibility clause for inclusion in all 
direct material contracts in the Supply Chain section of our Global Sustainability Report.
414-2 Negative social impacts 
in the supply chain and 
actions takenGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: Supplier Risk Assessment and Engagement, page 67GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
122
ESG APPENDIX
2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
Public Policy
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Public Policy Engagement, page 85
Proxy Statement: Board Oversight, pages 20–23
GRI 415:  
Public Policy 
2016415-1 Political contributions Global Sustainability Report 2021: Public Policy Engagement, page 85
We do not make direct independent expenditures on behalf of candidates running for public 
office. If such expenditures were made, they would be included in our semi-annual report. Our 
political contributions are bipartisan, made without regard for the private political preferences 
of our officers and executives and based on: 
• Candidate policy positions that reflect Abbott’s interests 
•  Representation of geographic areas where Abbott employees and facilities are located 
• Relevant legislative committee assignments of office holders 
• A candidate’s ability to be elected 
• The need for financial assistance 
Abbott’s latest federal lobbying disclosure filings can be found on the U.S. Senate Office of 
Public Records website or the U.S. House of Representatives Office of the Clerk website. The 
Public Policy Committee of the Abbott Board of Directors reviews an annual report of our 
advocacy priorities.
Customer Health and Safety
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Quality Management, page 56
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Compliance, page 79
GRI 416: 
Customer 
Health and 
Safety 2016416-1 Assessment of the 
health and safety 
impacts of product and 
service categoriesAbbott’s Quality System is implemented at a global level and incorporated into each division 
and site. Risk management is an element of the Quality System and implemented across the 
lifecycle of Abbott products. 
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning the health and 
safety impacts of products 
and servicesAbbott’s Quality System is implemented at a global level and incorporated into each division 
and site. Risk management is an element of the Quality System and implemented across the 
lifecycle of Abbott products.GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX CONTINUED
2016 GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location
Marketing and Labeling
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Ethics and Integrity, page 78 
Privacy Policy
Advertising and Marketing Approach
Our Global Policy on the Marketing of Infant Formula, pages 8, 10
Code of Business Conduct
Proxy Statement: Board Oversight, pages 20–23
GRI 417: 
Marketing and 
Labeling 2016417-1 Requirements for product 
and service information 
and labelingFor SDS for our formulation products, including ADD assays, see section 13 of our  
Safety Data Sheets. We also provide dismantling instructions for ADD, as well as 
waste handling and disposal instructions, in our OUS Technical Library which is available 
to our customers.
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Ethics and Integrity, page 78 
Privacy Policy
Advertising and Marketing Approach
Our Global Policy on the Marketing of Infant Formula, pages 8, 10
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning marketing 
communicationsWhen public disclosure criteria are met, monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with false marketing claims are included in our 2021 Annual Report.
Socioeconomic Compliance
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1, 
2, 3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its Boundaries
The management approach 
and its components
Evaluation of the 
management approachGlobal Sustainability Report 2021: ESG Appendix, Materiality, page 88
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Ethics and Integrity, page 78 
Global Sustainability Report 2021: Compliance, page 79
Abbott Comprehensive Ethics and Compliance Program
Proxy Statement: Board Oversight, pages 20–23
GRI 419: 
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 
2016419-1 Non-compliance with laws 
and regulations in the social 
and economic areaAdhering to our Code of Business Conduct is a condition of continued employment at Abbott. 
We investigate all reports of potential violations of our code, policies or procedures and take 
appropriate corrective action.
Any Abbott employee who violates our code, policies or procedures is subject to appropriate 
disciplinary action, which may include termination. Corrective action may also include 
terminating third-party relationships. Any Abbott employee who refuses to cooperate in an 
investigation may also be subject to disciplinary action, as may any employee who reports a 
concern that is knowingly false or intended to threaten, intimidate or retaliate.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
123
ESG APPENDIX
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index
Metric 2021 Disclosure 
Medical Equipment & Supplies Standard
Affordability and Pricing
HC-MS-240a.1: Ratio of 
weighted average rate of net 
price increases (for all products) 
to the annual increase in the U.S. 
Consumer Price Index.Y earTotal Abbott Net Sales Price Change  
(year-on-year %)Global Consumer Price Index1 
(year-on-year %) 
2021 -1.5 +3.9
2020 -0.4 +1.7
2019 +0.2 +2.4
2018 -1.0 +2.6
Affordability and access are priorities for Abbott as we strive to help people live fully through our life-changing 
products and technologies. We aim to reach as many people as possible who need these healthcare solutions. 
As part of our 2030 Sustainability Plan, we have an intentional focus on designing sustainable access and 
affordability into our new life-changing technologies so that we can make them widely available at affordable prices 
to people who need them. Pricing, however, is only one of the factors that determine affordability. Abbott also 
is advocating for systems and approaches that broaden access while minimizing additional costs for consumers 
and payers. 
In 2021, Abbott’s product pricing reflected the company’s approach, with an annual global net sales price change of 
-1.5%, which compares to a Global Consumer Price Index (CPI) of +3.9% for 2021. This metric is modified from the 
metric provided by SASB by substituting a global CPI for the U.S. CPI. 
Sales outside of the U.S. in 2021 comprised approximately 61% of Abbott’s revenue. Abbott believes that disclosing 
product pricing relative to the Global CPI is an appropriate way for investors and other stakeholders to best 
understand pricing for products across our diversified, global businesses. The global CPI is the total headline CPI for 
each country weighted by Abbott’s geographic revenue exposure. For more on Abbott pricing, see Abbott’s 10-K 
filing for 2021.Metric 2021 Disclosure 
HC-MS-240a.2: Description of 
how price information for each 
product is disclosed to customers 
or to their agents. Abbott Laboratories sells diagnostics, medical devices, nutritional products and established pharmaceuticals. (For 
more details, see page 20 in our Innovate for Access and Affordability section in this report.) Given the breadth of 
our product offerings, each Abbott division sells products using a variety of contracting methodologies. Divisions 
use a variety of price concessions in their sales contracting, including point-of-sale discounts, rebates and wholesaler 
chargebacks. These price concessions can be for single or multi-product sales and may include products from 
multiple business units or divisions (such as all medical device business units or rapid and molecular diagnostics). 
Price concessions may be based upon factors such as volume, market share and purchase commitments, or result 
from competitive bidding processes, and are generally documented in executed contracts, purchase orders and 
term sheets. Point-of-sale discounts are reflected in invoices that show the discounted prices, and rebates are 
documented in written agreements, with rebate calculations provided at the time rebate payments are made. 
Our customers span the globe and include federal, state and local governments, hospitals, group purchasing 
organizations, wholesalers, individual healthcare providers and consumers. We maintain pricing flexibility to meet the 
needs of our diverse customers, large and small, and to ensure that our essential healthcare products are available 
and affordable across the globe.
Product Safety
HC-MS-250a.1: Number of 
recalls issued, total units recalled.FDA Class I and Class II 
Business  Class I Class II
Med Device 1 3
Diagnostics 1 6
Pharmaceutical2N/A N/A
Nutrition 0 0Abbott is reporting under the SASB, and in doing so, we strive to provide material environmental, social 
and governance information to our investors and stakeholders. The following index provides content 
aligning with disclosures related to the Medical Equipment & Supplies Standard; Biotechnology & 
Pharmaceuticals Standard; and Processed Foods Standard. Unless otherwise noted, all data disclosed is 
as of December 31, 2021.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
124
ESG APPENDIX
Metric 2021 Disclosure 
HC-MS-250a.2: List of products 
listed in the FDA’s MedWatch 
Safety Alerts for Human Medical 
Products database.See the FDA’s MedWatch safety alerts for human medical products database. 
•  Potential for False Positive Results with Abbott Molecular Inc. Alinity m SARS-CoV-2 AMP and Alinity m Resp-
4-Plex AMP Kits — Letter to Clinical Laboratory Staff and Health Care Providers
•  Abbott Molecular, Inc. Recalls Alinity m SARS-CoV-2 AMP Kit and Alinity m Resp-4-Plex AMP Kit for Potential 
False Positive SARS-CoV-2 Test Results
•  Abbott (formally known as “St. Jude Medical”) Recalls Assurity™ and Endurity™ Pacemakers for Potential 
Moisture Ingress Causing Electrical Short and Reduced Battery Life
• Abbott Implements Corrective Action for Heartmate 3 Heart Pump
• Abbott Initiates Voluntary Recall of Specific Lots of Two Coronary Catheters
•  Abbott Vascular Recalls NC Trek RX and NC Traveler RX Coronary Dilatation Catheters Due to Failure of Balloon 
(diameter 4.0mm, 4.5mm and 5.00mm) to Deflate
•  FDA Investigating Increased Rate of Major Adverse Cardiac Events Observed in Patients Receiving Abbott 
Vascular’s Absorb GT1 Bioresorbable Vascular Scaffold (BVS) — Letter to Health Care Providers
• Abbott Initiates Voluntarily Recall of Specific Lots of Three Coronary Catheters
HC-MS-250a.3: Number of 
fatalities related to products 
as reported in the FDA 
Manufacturer and User Facility 
Device Experience database.See the FDA’s MedWatch safety alerts for human medical products database. 
HC-MS-250a.4: Number 
of FDA enforcement actions 
taken in response to violations 
of current Good Manufacturing 
Practices (cGMP), by type.See page 60 on Product Quality Indicators, in the Quality and Safety section of this report.
FDA Enforcement Action 2020 2021
Warning letters issued 0 0
Seizures 0 0
Form 483s 0 1
Consent decrees 0 0
FDA Class I and Class II 
Business Class I Class II
Med Device 1 3
Diagnostics 1 6
Pharmaceutical3N/A N/A
Nutrition 0 0Metric 2021 Disclosure 
Ethical Marketing 
HC-MS-270a.1: Total amount 
of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with 
false marketing claims.When public disclosure criteria are met, monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false 
marketing claims are included in our 2021 Annual Report.
HC-MS-270a.2: Description 
of code of ethics governing 
promotion of off-label use 
of products.One of the key, universal principles related to product promotion is that we may not promote or pre-sell a product 
that has not yet been approved or cleared by the relevant regulatory body for the location or usage in question. 
If a healthcare professional asks about uses for Abbott products that are beyond the scope of approved labeling 
(sometimes referred to as “off-label” uses), the inquiry should be directed to the designated function for such 
inquiries in each Abbott division, which normally resides in Medical Affairs.
Product Design and Life Cycle Management
HC-MS-410a.1: Discussion of 
process to assess and manage 
environmental and human health 
considerations associated with 
chemicals in products, and meet 
demand for sustainable products.To identify and mitigate the environmental impacts of our packaging and products throughout their life cycles — and 
at every stage of the value chain — relevant teams must work together. Our Product Stewardship, Supply Chain, 
R&D, Engineering and EHS groups partner closely to analyze how and what we source. We continuously monitor 
the regulatory landscape and any change to hazardous chemical requirements. Our Corporate Product Stewardship 
organization holds regular forums for informing all areas of our company about the potential business impacts these 
changes could have. Our enhanced regulatory intelligence process ensures potential impacts are identified in a 
timely manner. It also follows actions taken at the business level to confirm we remain compliant. 
Our product stewardship program tracks and addresses hazardous chemical legislation and supports the 
implementation of due diligence on conflict minerals. We offer product stewardship training on hazardous chemical 
legislation and conflict minerals to all relevant teams, including R&D, Supply Chain, Procurement and EHS.
HC-MS-410a.2: Total amount of 
products accepted for takeback 
and reused, recycled or donated, 
broken down by (1) devices and 
equipment and (2) supplies.See page 73 of the Our 2021 Performance section in the Create a Resilient, Diverse and Responsible Supply Chain 
section of this report. 
We look for opportunities to reduce waste going to landfills by collecting our diagnostic products for recycling, 
refurbishing and energy recovery. In one of our various takeback programs, we collected and refurbished over 350 
instruments and diverted approximately 350,000 lbs. of product waste from landfill in 2021. Some of Abbott’s 
takeback programs are driven by government regulations; however, others are proactive initiatives.SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
125
ESG APPENDIX
Metric 2021 Disclosure 
Supply Chain Management 
HC-MS-430a.1: Percentage 
of (1) entity’s facilities and 
(2) Tier 1 suppliers participating 
in third-party audit programs 
for manufacturing and 
product quality.Quality Inspections and Audits 
2020 2021  
Quality/regulatory inspections by global health authorities 490 559
     % resulting in zero observations 81% 80%
FDA site inspections 4 12
     % resulting in zero observations 75% 92%
     Average number of observations per inspection 0.25 0.42
Internal independent audits to ensure compliance with Abbott quality standards 96 145
 
Approximately 61% of Tier 1 suppliers participate in third-party auditing programs. Suppliers are classified according 
to risk level of potential impacts; evaluation frequency is determined based on this, ranging between every two 
(high-risk) and four (low-risk) years.
HC-MS-430a.2: Description of 
efforts to maintain traceability 
within the distribution chain.Abbott ensures product traceability throughout manufacturing and distribution by leveraging identification 
technologies and enterprise resource planning solutions. Through these systems, we guarantee compliance with 
regulatory, quality and control requirements. 
HC-MS-430a.3: Description 
of the management of risks 
associated with the use of 
critical materials.Abbott maintains product traceability throughout manufacturing and distribution by leveraging identification 
technologies and enterprise resource planning solutions. Through these systems, we ensure compliance with 
regulatory, quality and control requirements. Critical materials used in our products are managed through our 
product stewardship program. We have developed a product stewardship program to minimize the impact of our 
products and their packaging throughout the product life cycle. The program tracks and addresses regulations 
regarding restricted chemicals and ensures due diligence regarding conflict minerals. We carefully monitor and 
document regulatory changes, and we inform all areas of our company about the potential business impacts of these 
changes through regular product stewardship business meetings.
Each business conducts assessments of new and changed products for substances of concern or restricted and 
critical materials. Risk assessments are prepared whenever these substances are identified. We then evaluate: 
• Whether continued use can be justified 
• The value of use versus reformulation 
• Any potential compliance issues 
The evaluation also serves as an opportunity to research suitable alternatives and how they could impact product 
performance and cost. Recommendations for next steps contain justification for substance use, product support 
strategies and a business risk monitoring plan. These are all reviewed by business management.Metric 2021 Disclosure 
Business Ethics
HC-MS-510a.1: Total amount 
of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with 
bribery or corruption.When public disclosure criteria are met, the total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with bribery or corruption is included in our 2021 Annual Report.
HC-MS-510a.2: 
Description of code of ethics 
governing interactions with 
healthcare professionals.We respect the expertise of healthcare professionals, who provide guidance about healthcare treatment options 
and healthy living. Healthcare professionals, such as physicians, pharmacists, nurses, researchers or laboratory staff, 
must use their independent judgment to decide the best course of care for their patients based on their training and 
expertise. We are committed to working with healthcare professionals to provide them with timely and accurate 
information to assist them in making decisions and providing advice to their patients. We can achieve our mission of 
supporting health only through a truly collaborative approach.
We want to build a culture of integrity and compliance, engaging every employee in upholding ethical behaviors. Our 
global online Legal and Ethical Resource Network (LERN) training program is run in 91 countries and 36 languages. 
It informs employees of all aspects of our Code of Business Conduct, with practical guidance on recognizing and 
responding to legal and ethical issues, with a key focus on interactions with healthcare professionals.
Activity Metric 
HC-MS-000.A: Number of 
units sold by product categoryNot disclosed. SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
126
ESG APPENDIX
Metric 2021 Disclosure 
Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals Standard
Safety of Clinical Trial Participants
HC-BP-210a.1: Discussion, by 
world region, of management 
process for ensuring quality 
and patient safety during 
clinical trials.Abbott follows all applicable regulations in the countries where we conduct clinical studies or register products. We 
also follow nationally and internationally accepted standards, such as the International Council for Harmonisation of 
Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use Good Clinical Practices (ICH GCP), the principles of 
the Declaration of Helsinki, the International Organization for Standardization’s ISO 14155, ISO 20916 and other 
standards. We train employees and clinical sites on the proper conduct of clinical studies and employ both external 
and internal oversight of studies. 
When planning our clinical studies, Abbott identifies and reduces controllable risks to patients. Either our 
Institutional Review Board (IRB) or our Independent Ethics Committee (IEC) reviews any proposed research prior 
to commencement to assure patient protections. The informed consent procedures and consent form documents 
for any clinical study must conform to all relevant legal statutes and governmental regulations. During the course 
of a study, patients can report any concerns to the IRB. We monitor our studies on an ongoing basis to ensure 
compliance with Abbott standards and identify any unforeseen risks to patient safety.
This includes audits of contract research organizations (CROs) that conduct or manage studies on behalf of Abbott. 
If Abbott becomes aware of study misconduct, we report it to the appropriate authorities. No GCP inspections by 
regulatory agencies of the company or clinical trial investigators led to fines, penalties, warning letters or product 
seizures in 2021. 
Clinical Trial Registrations  
Abbott registers all applicable and/or covered clinical trials, regardless of outcome, in a publicly accessible clinical 
trials registry, such as ClinicalTrials.gov . For branded generic pharmaceuticals, this means that we register 
interventional clinical studies in patients as designated by national laws and regulations. For medical devices and 
diagnostics, this means we register interventional clinical studies of health outcomes and pediatric post-marketing 
surveillance studies, as designated by national laws and regulations. 
Clinical Trial Results Disclosures  
Abbott is committed to transparency and sharing important information about the clinical trials we sponsor. We 
recognize that there are important public health benefits to making clinical trial information available to healthcare 
providers, patients and the public. Our registrations and results disclosures adhere to all applicable national laws and 
regulations in countries where we operate. 
Abbott discloses the results of all applicable or covered clinical trials as described above, regardless of outcome, 
in a publicly accessible clinical trials results database, such as ClinicalTrials.gov. We also report the results of 
any exploratory pharmaceutical clinical studies if the findings have significant medical importance, such as with 
important safety findings. 
Clinical Trial Data Sharing  
The regulatory environment around sharing clinical trial data for research purposes is evolving. We continually 
engage with stakeholders’ different approaches for sharing clinical trial data with scientific and medical researchers 
to advance medical science, while protecting confidential information.Metric 2021 Disclosure 
HC-BP-210a.2: Number of FDA 
Sponsor Inspections related to 
clinical trial management and 
pharmacovigilance that resulted 
in: (1) Voluntary Action Indicated 
(VAI) and (2) Official Action 
Indicated (OAI).Not disclosed. 
HC-BP-21a.3: Total amount 
of monetary losses as a result 
of legal proceedings associated 
with clinical trials in developing 
countries.When public disclosure criteria are met, monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials 
are included in our 2021 Annual Report.
Access to Medicines 
HC-BP-240a.1: Description of 
actions and initiatives to promote 
access to healthcare products for 
priority diseases and in priority 
countries as defined by the 
Access to Medicine Index.Equitable access to healthcare is a priority for Abbott. We work globally across more than 160 countries, many of 
which are priority countries, to promote access to healthcare. This includes some priority diseases.
Ethical Marketing
HC-BP-270a.1: Total amount 
of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with 
false marketing claims.See HC-MS-270a.1.
HC-BP-270a.2: Description 
of code of ethics governing 
promotion of off-label use 
of products.See HC-MS-270a.2.SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
127
ESG APPENDIX
Metric 2021 Disclosure 
Employee Recruitment, Development and Retention 
HC-BP-330a.1: Discussion of 
talent recruitment and retention 
efforts for scientists and research 
and development personnelTalent management is overseen by our Executive Vice President, Human Resources — who reports directly to our 
President and CEO — and corporate officers, all of whom carry talent management goals. 
We engage organizations such as Advancing Minorities’ Interest in Engineering and the Society of Women Engineers 
to identify diverse talent. Partnerships with academic institutions like Howard University and North Carolina 
Agricultural and Technical State University also support our future employee pipeline. 
Our career site employs artificial intelligence to enhance the application process, streamlining user experiences with 
tailored content and a personalized chatbot to help identify roles. In 2021, Abbott hired 26,184 new employees. We 
strive to increase the number of women in our leadership ranks and across our many STEM roles. The annual Society 
of Women Engineers conference offers an opportunity to connect with the brightest female minds in the industry. 
At the 2021 event, we successfully recruited a number of excellent new hires. 
As well as supporting those who already work for Abbott, we want to give the next generation opportunities to get 
a foot on the industry ladder. Through our STEM internship program, we offer high school students — particularly 
female and minority applicants — an opportunity to kick-start a career in healthcare.
HC-BP-330a.2: (1) Voluntary 
and (2) involuntary turnover 
rate for (a) executives/
senior managers, (b) midlevel 
managers, (c) professionals and 
(d) all others.See page 91 in the Key Social Metrics of the Appendix. 
Processed Foods Standard 
Energy Management 
FB-PF-130a.1: (1) Total energy 
consumed, (2) percentage 
grid electricity and 
(3) percentage renewableThe total energy consumption (Scope 1 and 2) in 2021 was 14,126,000 gigajoules. The total electricity purchased 
was 4,538,000 gigajoules. Abbott’s total energy consumption that is sourced from the grid totals 27%.
2021 Electricity Purchased
% of grid-sourced electricity 85%
% of renewable energy purchased 15% Metric 2021 Disclosure 
Water Management 
FB-PF-140a.1: (1) Total water 
withdrawn and (2) total water 
consumed, percentage of each 
in regions with high or extremely 
high baseline water stress.Total water withdrawn: 13,809 megaliters; in 2021, 38.9% of water was withdrawn from regions with high or 
extremely high baseline water stress.
Total water consumption: 2,418 megaliters; in 2021, 42.7% of water was consumed from regions with high or 
extremely high baseline water stress.
Our 2021 Water Footprint
Inputs 
Municipal water 77.5%
Rainwater collected on-site 0.2%
Fresh surface and groundwater 22.3%
Water from raw materials <0.01%
Outputs
Water consumed in process 17.5%
Water treated by municipality 70.0%
Water returned to the environment 12.5%
Water recycling on-site
8.01%
FB-PF-140a.2: Number of 
incidents of noncompliance 
associated with water quantity 
and/or quality permits, standards 
and regulations.In 2021, each of Abbott’s 22 NOVs were related to wastewater discharges from one of our manufacturing plants. To 
address the issue, Abbott has a comprehensive action plan in place and is expediting long-term sustainable controls.
FB-PF-140a.3: Description of 
water management risks and 
discussion of strategies and 
practices to mitigate those risks.No inherent water-related risks with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on the business 
have been identified.
To address water-related risks and ensure our business’ resilience, Abbott’s Business Continuity and Crisis 
Management, EHS, Engineering and Supply Chain organizations work to implement measures which allow us to 
ensure business continuity and minimize the financial impacts from physical water-related risks. Likewise, a core part 
of Abbott’s business strategy includes reducing our water footprint in our operations and engaging our value chain in 
strategic sourcing categories.SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
128
ESG APPENDIX
Metric 2021 Disclosure 
Packaging Lifecycle Management
FB-PF-410a.1: (1) Total weight 
of packaging, (2) percentage 
made from recycled and/or 
renewable materials and (3) 
percentage that is recyclable, 
reusable and/or compostable.Abbott is committed to packaging optimization through sustainable design. In order to better understand 
opportunities for more sustainable packaging, teams in our Nutrition business unit conducted an analysis of their 
packaging portfolio to establish a baseline. Abbott looks to expand this effort in our other business units in the 
coming years. In 2021, our Nutrition business (1) utilized 138,000 U.S. tons of material to place 3.7 billion packages 
on market, (2) made 19% of packaging from recycled and/or renewable materials and (3) estimated that 65% of its 
packaging is recyclable, reusable and/or compostable.
FB-PF-410a.2: Discussion 
of strategies to reduce the 
environmental impact of 
packaging throughout its 
life cycle.We recognize the impact our packaging has on the environment today in the form of resource use, related emissions 
and waste production. We are rethinking how we design packaging to optimize material use and keep materials in 
circulation for as long as possible. To reduce raw material burden, we are optimizing efficiency by minimizing the 
volume and weight of our packaging. We are also employing circularity principles to incorporate increased quantities 
of recycled content and designing for recyclability, reusability and increasingly positive impact. 
To address 50 million pounds of packaging through high-impact sustainable design programs, we need a plan of 
action. Our Sustainable Packaging Guiding Principles — recently created by the Sustainable Packaging Council — 
inform changes to existing packaging and target new designs that integrate sustainability from the very beginning.
Our Guiding Principles 
Optimize Material Efficiency
Eliminate unnecessary components Reduce packaging materials
Employ Circularity Principles
Replace 
problematic 
materialsDesign for 
disassemblyDesign for 
recyclabilityDesign for reuse Utilize renewable 
materials Integrate 
recycled content
Balance All Aspects of Packaging Systems Holistically
Optimize cube  
efficiencyProvide consumer  
directionImprove carbon  
footprint 
 SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) INDEX  CONTINUED
1 Global CPI is calculated using the total headline CPI for each country weighted by Abbott’s geographic revenue exposure. CPI values are gathered by Abbott Economics from S&P 
Global, which sources data from each country’s respective statistical agency or reporting institution. Revenue data for weighting is consistent with the net sales price change as reported in 
Abbott’s annual 10-K filing.
2 Abbott does not distribute pharmaceutical products in the U.S.
3. Abbott does not distribute pharmaceutical products in the U.S.
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
129
ESG APPENDIX
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Response
MANAGING RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 
We committed to identifying and mitigating climate-related risks with potential to impact our operations, supply chain 
and distribution network. We maintain an identification process for opportunities to address emerging climate change-
related healthcare needs and increase operating efficiencies by reducing climate-related impacts. We have determined that 
climate-related risks and opportunities exist at site and regional levels but are limited at a global scale. 
RISKS
We analyze physical and transitional risks resulting from emerging regulation and new supplier/customer expectations 
of our businesses and risk exposure. We assess and manage them through our integrated company-wide risk management 
process, which identifies opportunities to build resilience in both our operations and our business model. We regularly 
update risk management policies, standards and programs to align with global best practices and regulatory requirements, 
and aim to anticipate emerging risks and upcoming regulatory changes. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) 
process identifies and evaluates the most critical business risks and provides guidance to our Board of Directors and 
management team. 
The EHS Governance team monitors emerging climate-related trends and regulations to analyze potential impacts and 
risk exposure, and develop appropriate management strategies. Our EHS, Economics, Business Continuity and Supply 
Chain organizations use scenario-sensitivity risk modeling to understand the financial implications of climate-related risks. 
Abbott’s Business Continuity and Crisis Management organizations implement measures to ensure business continuity 
and minimize the financial impacts of physical climate-related risks. These physical risks fall into two categories: acute 
and chronic. • •   Acute physical risks associated with climate change include unforeseen extreme weather events for which we cannot 
develop preventative strategies. We have developed strategies for mitigating and responding to them across our value 
chain. Our Business Continuity and Crisis Management organization works with our EHS, Engineering and Supply 
Chain groups to strengthen business resiliency against weather events and other forms of extreme disruption. During 
the COVID-19 pandemic and strict travel restrictions, our processes enabled us to quickly produce millions of COVID-19 
tests while continuing to provide our other essential products to people globally.
• •   Our Engineering and EHS policies and management standards consider chronic physical risks, such as water scarcity, 
and require sites to conduct regular risk and opportunity evaluations and implement mitigation strategies. 
Climate-related risk analyses conclude that Abbott is not exposed to physical risks that could generate a substantive change 
in business operations, revenue or expenditure at a corporate level. While limited physical risks exist at site and regional 
operation levels and throughout our supply chain, our diverse geographical distribution significantly mitigates the potential 
for substantive business impact.
Our most significant climate-related risks are transition risks that relate to emerging expectations and regulations around 
GHG emission management. These include carbon limits and taxes, enhanced reporting obligations, costs to transition to 
lower-emissions technologies, and increased costs of goods and services. We have identified the need to manage and mitigate 
environmental impacts as a potential enterprise risk. In response to this, our business strategy includes reducing operational 
energy and carbon footprint, and engaging our value chain in strategic sourcing categories.
OPPORTUNITIES
As part of our product research and development (R&D) and climate risk management processes, we consider climate 
change-related opportunities. These fall into two main categories: 
• • Increased operating efficiencies through achieving carbon reduction targets 
• •  The opportunity to advance our mission to help people live their best lives by meeting changing healthcare and 
nutrition needs
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
130
ESG APPENDIX
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) RESPONSE  CONTINUED
Compared with many industries, Abbott’s carbon footprint is relatively small, reducing opportunities to achieve significant 
improvements in operating efficiencies and cost savings. Although opportunities exist and are incorporated into our 2030 
Sustainability Plan, they are unlikely to have a substantive financial impact on our business. 
Climate changes have the potential to influence disease burden and result in increased need for the diagnostics, medical 
devices, nutrition products and pharmaceuticals that Abbott makes. Our 2030 Sustainability Plan commits us to continually 
respond to increased humanitarian needs due to severe weather events, new disease threats and changes in the spread 
of disease. We will do so in line with our priority of innovating for access and affordability, which has characterized our 
company’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We do not anticipate that changes to the disease burden resulting from 
climate change will have a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business beyond this. We will continue to 
respond to these in line with our caring value and primarily through our philanthropic organization and product donations .
Disclosure 2021 Response
Governance
a)  Describe the Board’s oversight of  
climate-related risks and opportunities. Abbott is committed to strong corporate governance that aligns with shareholder interests. Our Board 
of Directors has an integral role in leading our sustainability activities. For more details on its oversight 
of climate risks and opportunities, see page 42 of the Environment section and Abbott’s CDP Climate 
Change 2021 Response: CDP C 1.1b. 
b)  Describe management’s role in 
assessing/managing climate-related risks 
and opportunities.Abbott’s commitment to sustainable business starts at the top and is integrated across our organization. 
The management team leads our sustainability activities alongside the Board. See page 77 of the 
Governance section and CDP C1.2, C1.2a, C1.3, C1.3a for more information. 
Strategy
a)  Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organization has 
identified over the short, medium, and 
long term. Through Abbott’s risk management processes, we have determined that climate-related risks and 
opportunities exist at site and regional operation levels and in our supply chain. However, Abbott is not 
exposed to any material climate-related risks or opportunities. Through Abbott’s diversified geographical 
distribution and the various initiatives that we have implemented to reduce our carbon emissions and 
improve operational efficiency, the potential impact for climate change-related physical and regulatory 
risks to be material to our business is significantly lessened. Regarding the products that we supply, 
changes to the climate have the potential to influence the disease burden and result in increased need 
for the pharmaceutical, diagnostics, medical device and nutrition products that Abbott makes. However, 
we do not anticipate that this will have a material financial or strategic impact on our business. For more 
information, see CDP C2.1a, C2.1b, C2.2, C2.2a, C2.3b and C2.4b. Disclosure 2021 Response
b)  Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, strategy, and 
financial planning. We factor climate-related risks and opportunities into our financial planning and business strategy, 
including in our products and services, supply chain, investments in R&D and operations. For more 
information on these impacts, see CDP C3.1, C3.2a, C3.3, C3.4, and C3.4.
c)  Describe the resilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-related 
scenarios, including a 2 degree C or 
lower scenario. In 2017, Abbott contracted with the World Resources Institute (WRI) to complete a 2-degree scenario 
analysis. To calculate the financial implications of emerging climate-related trends and regulations, 
Abbott’s EHS and Economics organizations undertake scenario sensitivity risk-modeling analyses on 
potential and emerging environmental risks.
Recent analyses have considered the national climate targets arising from COP21, potential carbon taxes, 
the financial implications of water scarcity and climate change impacts to agriculture supply chains. For 
more information on these scenarios and the resilience of Abbott’s climate strategy, see CDP C3.2, 
C3.2a, and C4.1.
Risk Management
a)  Describe the organization’s process 
for identifying and assessing climate-
related risks. Abbott is committed to mitigating climate-related risks that have the potential to impact our operations, 
supply chain and distribution network. These include potential physical risks, as well as emerging transition 
risks. We have a multi-disciplinary company-wide risk management process, which assesses climate-related 
risks across the organization to ensure that our businesses and operations are resilient. For more details on 
our process for identifying and assessing risks, see CDP C2.1a, C2.1b, C2.2 and C2.2a. 
b)  Describe the organization’s processes for 
managing climate-related risks. Abbott has a robust process for managing the potential physical and transition risks identified in our 
assessment process. We have several tools, committees and organizations that identify and manage these 
risks. See CDP C2.1a, C2.1b and C2.2 for more details. 
c)  Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing, and managing climate-
related risks are integrated into the 
organization’s overall risk management. Climate risks are embedded into our risk assessment and management process and play a critical role in our 
business strategy and continuity planning. For more details on how climate is integrated into our overall 
risk management, see CDP C2.1a, C2.1b and C2.2. 
Metrics and Targets
a)  Disclose the metrics used by the 
organization to assess climate-related 
risks and opportunities in line with its 
strategy and risk management process. We track a number of climate-related metrics, in addition to our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions for our carbon 
footprint. For these metrics, see CDP C4.2b and C9.1, page 93 of the Energy and Emissions section and 
page 93 of the Appendix. 
b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions and the related risks. Under our 2030 Sustainability Plan, we have set new targets to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, and are developing a target for Scope 3 emissions. To track these, we disclose our carbon 
footprint for all three scopes annually. For these metrics and related risks, see CDP C6.1, C6.3 and C6.5, 
page 44 of the Energy and Emissions section, and page 93 of the Appendix.
c)  Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets. We have set several targets to track our performance and assess and manage our risks and opportunities, 
including for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, with a forthcoming Scope 3 target. See page 43 of the Energy and 
Emissions section and page 93 of the Appendix for more information. 
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
131
ESG APPENDIX
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Index
In assessing what sustainability means to Abbott, we monitor 
how our priorities and material issues align with the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) published by the United Nations. The 
following examples represent some of the many ways in which our 
work to help people live better and healthier lives intersects with 
the SDGs.TARGET
1.1 / 1.5
WHY IT MATTERS
We are committed to developing accessible products that are affordable for the 
people who need them. Even as we invest in innovation, we are finding ways to 
prevent passing costs on to customers. At the same time, we are using our scale to 
support global communities in rebuilding following natural disasters and other 
emergencies. 
2030 ABBOTT GOAL
Make access and affordability core to new product innovation.PROGRESS AND 2021 STORIES 
Emergency Relief 
•  We are committed to rapid response following natural disasters and other 
emergencies. In 2021, Abbott and the Abbott Fund donated approximately  
$2 million in cash and product to address immediate needs and long-term 
recovery efforts. This included providing relief following flooding in China, 
Germany, Turkey and the U.S.; earthquakes in Croatia and Haiti; wildfires in 
Turkey; hurricanes in the U.S.; and support for Afghan refugees in the U.S.
•  For 16 years, we have partnered with Feeding America and Direct Relief to 
prepare communities for the hurricane season. Critically needed supplies, 
including rehydration solutions and nutrition products, are distributed to food 
banks and health clinics across high-risk areas in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, 
supporting more than 12,000 people. In 2021, we broadened these efforts, 
implementing strategies to help prevent and mitigate impacts on communities in 
New Orleans, Dallas, Orlando and Puerto Rico. 
See page 23 of Abbott’s Innovate for Access and Affordability section for more 
information. NO POVERTY
END POVERTY IN ALL ITS 
FORMS EVERYWHERE
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
132
ESG APPENDIX
ZERO HUNGER
END HUNGER, ACHIEVE FOOD SECURITY 
AND IMPROVED NUTRITION AND PROMOTE 
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE
TARGET
2.1 / 2.2
WHY IT MATTERS
At Abbott, we are committed to developing initiatives and healthcare solutions that 
support food security and improved nutrition for people globally.
2030 ABBOTT GOAL
Transform care for chronic disease, malnutrition and infectious diseases.PROGRESS AND 2021 STORIES 
Malnutrition Solutions 
The Abbott Center for Malnutrition Solutions — our cross-functional innovation 
hub — is working to improve identification, treatment and prevention of 
malnutrition. External partnerships, research, innovation and financial support also 
contribute to development of accessible, sustainable and locally relevant options for 
those most in need. 
Sports and Nutrition Education
In 2021, we announced a partnership with Real Madrid Football Club and the Real 
Madrid Foundation to support the health of at-risk children around the world 
through education, sports and social welfare activities:
• Bringing sports and nutrition to children in 80 countries
•  Enhancing malnutrition screening, education and nutrition in 12 countries 
• Partnering over three years to develop products for enhanced nutrition
See pages 19 and 21 of Abbott’s Innovate for Access and Affordability section for  
more information. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ESG APPENDIX
133TARGET
3.1 / 3.2 / 3.3 / 3.4 / 3.8
WHY IT MATTERS
Abbott is dedicated to improving people’s health at all ages and stages of life. Health 
and well-being are at the center of everything we do each day to tackle the world’s 
most pressing health problems. 
2030 ABBOTT GOAL
•  Improve the lives of more than 3 billion people each year — reaching 1 billion 
more per year than we do today. 
• Make access and affordability core to new product innovation.
• Transform care for chronic disease, malnutrition and infectious diseases.
• Advance health equity through partnership.PROGRESS AND 2021 STORIES 
Treatment for Noncommunicable Diseases (NCDs)
Throughout 2021, we continued to develop and evolve the products and initiatives to 
treat NCDs in people globally.
•  We sponsored a pilot initiative designed by the American Diabetes Association 
to reduce health inequities by removing barriers to tools and technology for 
diabetes  management.
Life-Improving Technology 
We launched Ultreon 1.0 software, an imaging diagnostic solution designed to help 
optimize coronary artery procedures. We are committed to improving outcomes for 
1 million patients annually using the software by 2030.
Decentralized Healthcare 
Throughout 2021, we extended support to 32 healthcare centers through social 
investing, shared value and the Abbott Fund. This included training 2,851 workers 
on decentralized care and providing services to 705,000 people, tailoring solutions 
to the unique needs of communities around the world.
Women and Children’s Health
We continue to deliver services for women and children in Vietnam that raise 
awareness on health and healthy living practices, including proper nutrition, 
diseases prevention and education, and access to healthcare in underinvested 
communities such as ethnic minority and other marginalized groups. This 
year, through our partnership with the Women’s Union, we reached more than 
11,000 people. 
See pages 18–23 of the Innovate for Access and Affordability section for 
more information.GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND PROMOTE 
WELL-BEING FOR ALL AT ALL AGESSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ESG APPENDIX
134QUALITY EDUCATION
ENSURE INCLUSIVE AND EQUITABLE QUALITY 
EDUCATION AND PROMOTE LIFELONG 
LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL
TARGET
4.3 / 4.4
WHY IT MATTERS
New ideas arise from diverse experiences and points of view. To achieve our 
ambitions, we’re actively shaping our organization for the future by prioritizing 
diversity and inclusion, advancing STEM education and empowering our teams with 
skills to meet the health needs of tomorrow.
2030 ABBOTT GOAL
•  Create opportunities in Abbott’s science, technology, engineering and math 
(STEM) programs and internships for more than 100,000 young people, with 50% 
of those coming from underrepresented groups.PROGRESS AND 2021 STORIES 
Further Education
We know financial considerations can represent a barrier to further education. In 
2021, we launched FreeU, which, when combined with our tuition reimbursement 
program, enables employees to pursue a bachelor’s degree at no personal cost.
Abbott pays the full cost of required starting coursework. Credits are then 
automatically transferred to a participating online university where employees can 
complete their studies. 
See page 36 of Abbott’s Workforce section for more information. 
Internship Opportunities 
Internships offer future innovators first-hand industry experience. Throughout 
2021, we expanded our IT and Computer Science internship in the U.S., and we have 
plans underway to bring our Engineering co-op program to more applicants. Our 
college internship program was voted #1 in Healthcare in the U.S. and ranked highly 
in 21 other countries.  
See page 31 of Abbott’s Workforce section for more information. 
Virtual Education
When in-person learning was restricted, we delivered our chronic disease education 
program, Future Well Kids, virtually, working  with Discovery Education to 
develop a virtual field trip for children aged 10–13 to learn about the importance of 
cardiovascular health. 
Through  Y our Heart, students explore the heart and how hydration, eating right 
and exercising regularly keeps this organ healthy. Our STEM interns, in-house 
experts and three-time Olympian Lolo Jones brought lessons to life through 
engaging videos and demonstrations, all available online and on demand. 
See page 23 of of Abbott’s Access and Affordability section for more information.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
135
ESG APPENDIX
TARGET
5.1
WHY IT MATTERS
Promoting diversity and inclusion is part of how we lead, what we believe in 
and who we always strive to be. We want to create an environment that nurtures 
everyone, regardless of race, gender, age, sexual orientation, disability or nationality.
2030 ABBOTT GOAL
•  Achieve gender balance across our global management team with at least 45% 
female representation. 
•  Achieve gender balance in STEM roles with at least 45% female representation.
PROGRESS AND 2021 STORIES 
Board Diversity
We prioritize gender equity in our Board of Directors. In 2021, 33% of Board 
members were women. 
See page 76 of Abbott’s Governance section for more information.
Workforce Equity 
In 2021, we published our inaugural Diversity, Equity and Inclusion report, setting 
out our action plan.  
We’re actively working to increase the number of women in our leadership ranks 
and across our many STEM roles. The annual Society of Women Engineers 
conference offers an opportunity to connect with the brightest female minds in 
the industry.  Today,
• 45% of the workforce is female.
• 40% of management positions are filled by women.
See page 33 of Abbott’s Workforce section for more information. 
Supplier Diversity
We are committed to promoting supplier diversity, prioritizing increased spending 
with small, minority-owned businesses. In 2021, our spend with Black-owned 
businesses grew by 31% and with women-owned businesses by 15%. 
See page 71 of Abbott’s Supply Chain section for more information.
Rwanda health posts 
Second Generation Health Posts have been successful in creating entrepreneurial 
opportunities and career paths for women. At present, 38% of Bugasera District 
Second-Generation Health Posts are operated by women. The Rwandan Ministry 
of Health hopes to double that percentage at scale-up. These Second-Generation 
Health Posts are different from previous health posts because they have approved 
and dedicated lab space that enables better diagnosis. A significant percentage (63%) 
of the technicians who run these labs are women in the Bugasera District. Beyond 
economic empowerment, women nurse operators are immensely important for 
quality of care. Most of the beneficiaries of the SGHPs are women — 60% of patients. 
These facilities provide safe, clean and confidential spaces to discuss a variety of 
gender-specific health concerns including family planning.
See page 21 of Abbott’s Access and Affordability section for more information.
Future Well in Crisis
In Marawi, Philippines, more than 120,000 people remain displaced after a 2017 
armed conflict. We are partnering with CARE to empower impacted women 
in the community to serve as Community Health Volunteers (CHVs) to run 
noncommunicable disease clubs, resulting in improved patient outcomes, elevated 
standing in the community for CHVs and financial security.
See page 23 of Abbott’s Community Impact and Inclusion section for 
more information.GENDER EQUALITY
ACHIEVE GENDER EQUALITY AND EMPOWER 
ALL WOMEN AND GIRLSSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ESG APPENDIX
136TARGET
6.3 / 6.4
WHY IT MATTERS
As global temperatures increase, so too does the scarcity of clean, safe water. 
Abbott recognizes the key role water plays in sustaining life, human health, 
economic growth and ecosystems. It’s also essential to our business continuity 
and manufacturing operations and plays a critical role in the use of many of our 
products. That is why we work diligently to protect water sources. 
2030 ABBOTT GOAL
•   Achieve water stewardship certification at all high-water-impact manufacturing 
sites in water-stressed areas. 
•  Implement accredited water stewardship management practices in more than 
75% of all manufacturing sites operating in water-stressed areas. 
•  Work with 50 key suppliers in highly water-stressed areas to reduce risks to water 
quality and quantity for Abbott and the community.PROGRESS AND 2021 STORIES 
Water Use Reductions 
We are committed to efficiently and responsibly managing water use, as well as 
improving access to clean water for our customers and for the communities where 
we operate. In Spain, we have installed a second reverse osmosis (RO) water 
purification system. By increasing capacity to recover and treat 70% of water 
rejected by the first RO system, across 2020 and 2021 we saved over 8 million 
gallons of water. Additionally, by reducing well water consumption by 11%, the site 
has also achieved notable energy savings of 12,800 kWh every year — and avoided 
approximately 3.7 metric tons of CO 2e.
Water Management 
We engage both our own sites and suppliers to improve water management 
practices. In 2021:
•  We engaged 26 suppliers on water management practices through our Supplier 
Sustainability Survey.
•  We laid the groundwork for future water stewardship certification and 
management practice accreditation. 
See page 46 of Abbott’s Environment section and our latest CDP Water response for 
more information.  CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION
ENSURE AVAILABILITY AND SUSTAINABLE 
MANAGEMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION 
FOR ALLSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ESG APPENDIX
137DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH
PROMOTE SUSTAINED, INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE 
ECONOMIC GROWTH, FULL AND PRODUCTIVE 
EMPLOYMENT AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL
TARGET
8.5 / 8.6
WHY IT MATTERS
The secret to sustainable business success lies in attracting talented people who 
share our vision and values. To retain them, we must show we care — by nurturing 
career development and safeguarding their health, safety and well-being.
2030 ABBOTT GOAL
•  Provide 1 million development and job opportunities for current and future 
employees. 
•  Ensure one-third of our leadership roles are held by people from 
underrepresented groups by 2025.
•  Create opportunities in Abbott’s STEM programs and internships for more than 
100,000 young people, including 50% from underrepresented groups. 
•  Ensure an inclusive environment with a 50% increase in spending with diverse 
and small businesses by 2030 and a 150% increase in spending with Black- and 
women-owned businesses by 2025, from a 2020 baseline. 
•  Achieve gender balance in STEM roles with at least 45% female representation.
PROGRESS AND 2021 STORIES 
Internship Training 
Our college internship program was voted #1 in Healthcare in the U.S. and 
ranked highly in 21 other countries. Throughout 2021, we expanded our IT and 
Computer Science internship in the U.S., with plans to bring our Engineering 
co-op program to more applicants. In 2021, 1,375 young people participated in our 
internship programs. 
See page 31 of Abbott’s Workforce section for more information.Equal Employee Development 
We offer our employees opportunities to develop and progress at Abbott, no matter 
what their career goals. In 2021:
•  We achieved 163,315 development and job opportunities for current and 
future employees. 
• 15% of all open positions were filled internally. 
• 40% of global management positions were filled by women. 
•  33% of leadership roles were held by people from underrepresented groups. 
•  $3.5 million in employee savings contributions were made through our Freedom 2 
Save program. 
• We recorded 44.6% female representation in STEM roles. 
• 70% of former college interns hired as full-time engineers were women.
See page 30 of Abbott’s Workforce section for more information. 
SEWA 
 In India, we have supported our partner, SEWA, by building three livelihood 
earning programs that support over 1,500 women by providing them employment. 
These women serve across the supply-chain to bring SEWA members’ products 
and produce to the market, stitching masks and putting food packets together for 
economically-disadvantaged communities. 
See page 6 of the About Abbott section for more information.
Future Well Communities 
To address the diabetes epidemic in Stockton, California, we are partnering with 
University of the Pacific to create certificate and degree programs in diabetes 
management, provide scholarships and secure employment for at least 80% of 
graduating scholars within three months post-graduation.
See page 22 of Abbott’s Innovate for Access and Affordability  section for more 
information.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ESG APPENDIX
138RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND 
PRODUCTION 
ENSURE SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION AND 
PRODUCTION PATTERNS
TARGET
12.5
WHY IT MATTERS
Each stage of a product’s life cycle has potential impacts on human health and the 
environment — from how materials are harvested to how final products and services 
are consumed. We believe waste management responsibility extends beyond the 
manufacturing phase, and are committed to staying accountable for impacts at each 
point of a product’s journey. 
2030 ABBOTT GOAL
•  Address 50 million pounds of packaging through high-impact sustainable design 
programs that: employ circularity principles through smart design and material 
selection; eliminate and reduce materials; improve the energy efficiency of 
Abbott’s products; optimize packaging, pallet and truckload efficiency. 
•  Reduce waste impacts using a circular economy approach to achieve and maintain 
at least a 90% waste diversion rate.
•  Engage with key suppliers to reduce the environmental impact of materials 
supplied to Abbott that become waste in our operations.PROGRESS AND 2021 STORIES 
Responsibility in Procurement
In 2021, we expanded the Supply Chain Sustainability team within our Global 
Procurement organization, and continued partnering with Operations, Supply Chain 
and EHS functions to manage our supply chain sustainability strategy, governance 
and programming. We also established a network of Sustainability Liaisons to act as 
representatives for each of our businesses in support of our 2030 targets and supply 
chain initiatives. 
Waste Management Progress 
While waste production did increase in 2021 due to increased production, as well as 
an increase in construction waste from expansion projects to allow for production 
growth, seven manufacturing facilities and one non-manufacturing facility received 
Zero Waste-to-Landfill certification, bringing our total number of facilities certified 
through this program to 38 manufacturing and eight non-manufacturing facilities. 
We follow the principles of reduce, reuse, recycle.
•  Reduce: At both the Abbott Park corporate headquarters and our Core 
Diagnostics operations in Illinois, we started an initiative in March of 2021 to 
reduce the generation of waste from these sites by sending baled corrugated 
cardboard to a third party for beneficial use. 
•  Reuse: In Costa Rica, we have updated procedures to allow for the reuse of 
shipping containers.
•  Recycle: In one of our U.S. nutrition plants, we have invested in machinery 
to enable on-site breaking down of fiber drums to support better recycling of 
each component.
See page 49 of Abbott’s Environment section for more information. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ESG APPENDIX
139TARGET
13.1 / 13.2
WHY IT MATTERS
We are committed to safeguarding a healthier planet for everyone. One way we do 
this is by reducing our emissions, finding more efficient ways to use energy and 
limiting reliance on fossil fuels.
2030 ABBOTT GOAL
•  Reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30% compared to our 2018 
baseline. This aligns our sustainability plan with the objectives of the Science 
Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
•  We are developing a 2030 target for Scope 3 emissions and will work with our 
key carbon-intensive suppliers to implement sustainable programs to reduce 
these emissions.PROGRESS AND 2021 STORIES 
Emission Reductions
Throughout 2021, absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased by 3.3% compared 
to 2020. When adjusted for sales, Scope 1 and 2 emissions decreased 17% over 
this same time period. In 2021, as our products — including COVID testing and 
diagnostics — became increasingly important for patients and healthcare workers 
globally, we expanded production, which has come with a rise in emissions. 
Energy Efficiency
To reduce energy demand, we have made several energy-efficient improvements 
as retrofits to existing equipment or through active in-house energy management. 
Several sites use energy data and innovative methods to identify and quantify 
energy inefficiencies in manufacturing processes, often employing external experts. 
These insights then inform a list of priority energy demand reduction projects 
across the global business. For example, in Indonesia, many of our motors have 
been upgraded with variable speed drives, reducing energy requirements while 
retaining performance.
Renewable Energy 
We are committed to purchasing a greater proportion of electricity from renewable 
sources and are developing a Renewable Energy Procurement initiative to drive 
continuous improvement in this area. In 2021, we purchased 190 million kWh of 
low-carbon and renewable energy, resulting in savings of 80,000 metric tons of 
CO2e. In addition, we also generated 1.8 million kWh from solar installations at eight 
of our sites. 
See page 45 of Abbott’s Environment section for more information on our 2021 
progress for climate action and our latest CDP Climate Change response . CLIMATE ACTION 
TAKE URGENT ACTION TO COMBAT CLIMATE 
CHANGE AND ITS IMPACTSSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ESG APPENDIX
140PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS
STRENGTHEN THE MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION 
AND REVITALIZE THE GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP 
FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
TARGET
17 .6 / 17 .17
WHY IT MATTERS
Collaboration is key to mitigating shared impacts. We work side by side with those 
we serve, governments and other stakeholders to address health disparities and 
barriers to equitable healthcare access. By nurturing partnerships that are resilient 
and responsible, and that leave lasting positive impact, we multiply our ability to 
touch people’s lives while safeguarding the planet.
2030 ABBOTT GOAL
• Advance health equity through partnership.
•  Partner with stakeholders to improve health outcomes by advancing standards 
and building access to affordable, integrated solutions.
PROGRESS AND 2021 STORIES 
Supply Chain Partnerships 
In 2021, 210 suppliers covering 25% spend were engaged through Abbott’s Supplier 
Sustainability Survey. We also updated the survey to better understand risks and 
opportunities in line with current and emerging sustainability-related issues and our 
2030 goals.
See page 69 of Abbott’s Supply Chain section for more information.Access and Affordability Partnerships 
 The Health Equity Bill of Rights — established by the American Diabetes 
Association® (ADA) — posits ten basic rights for people with diabetes and 
prediabetes. We have sponsored a pilot initiative designed by the ADA to address 
right #9: The right to the latest medical advances 
Today, Black Americans are 60% more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes, yet much 
less likely to have their condition well managed. The goal of our three-year, $5 million 
effort is to reduce health inequities by removing barriers to tools and technology 
for diabetes management regardless of income level or insurance status.  The pilot 
seeks to better understand and address the healthcare disparities for Black people 
living with diabetes. Focusing initial efforts in Columbus, Ohio, we will help by 
sponsoring campaigns to enhance awareness, access to, and adoption of these tools. 
In collaboration with the National Center for Urban Solutions (NCUS), 150 Black 
residents living with diabetes will have access to health education, physical training, 
nutritional support and Abbott’s FreeStyle Libre flash glucose monitoring technology. 
See page 18 of Abbott’s Access and Affordability section for more information.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) INDEX  CONTINUED
DATA WORKFORCE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY
2021 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY
 ESG APPENDIX
141Abbott Sustainability  
100 Abbott Park Road  
Department 0383  
Abbott Park, IL 60064-6048 
responsibility@abbott.com
www.abbott.com/sustainability