GLOBAL   SUSTAINABILITY   REPORT 2018CHANGING LIVES, CHANGING THE FUTUREABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSustainability Overview .
Our Business .
Corporate Governance .
Sustainability at Abbott .
Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals .
Section 1: Promoting Ethics and Integrity .
Our Compliance Program .
Combating Corruption and Bribery .
Public Policy Engagement .
Section 2: Ensuring Quality and Safety .
Governance  .
Management Approach  .
Performance Updates .
33   Cybersecurity .
35Section 3: Safeguarding Our Environment .
Governance  .
Strategy  .
Managing Climate Risks .
Reducing Energy and Emissions .
Protecting Water Resources  .
Reducing Waste  .
Producer Responsibility .
Environmental Investment and Compliance .
Section 4: Strengthening Our Supply Chain .
Governance  .
Management Approach  .
Performance Updates .
65 Section 5: Valuing Our People .
Governance .
72  Our Workplace Environment .
Talent Management Approach .
Compensation and Benefits .
Diversity and Inclusion .
Listening to Our Employees .
Employee Well-Being .
Employee Health, Safety and Wellness .
Section 6: Addressing Social Issues .
Our Approach to Shared Impact  .
Increasing Access to Healthcare  .
Engaging with Employees and Communities .
Section 7: Reporting on Sustainability .
Key Metrics – Financial .
Key Metrics – Social .
Key Metrics – Environmental .
Metrics References .
About the Cover .
125CONTENTS ABOUT THE COVER Courtney Duckworth was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes when she was 10 years old,  but she wasn't going to let her diabetes hold her back from crossing a marathon off  her bucket list.
Read more on page 125 to find out how she used Abbott's FreeStyle®  Libre flash glucose monitoring system to complete an extraordinary feat.
ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO DEAR FELLOW STAKEHOLDER, We at Abbott believe we’re in the best business there is: we get to help people live fuller lives through  better health.
We recognize that as a privilege – one that comes with responsibilities.
The most important of these is that we manage the company to ensure that Abbott will be here –   for another 130 years and beyond – continuing to benefit the millions of people around the world   who depend upon us in such meaningful ways.
Our primary concern and contribution will always be the life-changing health technologies that we  bring to the people who need them – technologies such as FreeStyle® Libre, which is helping people  manage their diabetes more painlessly, easily and effectively than ever before; Alinity™, a family of  advanced systems that are revolutionizing the diagnostic laboratory; and Confirm Rx™, the world’s   first and only smartphone-compatible insertable cardiac monitor to detect irregular heartbeats that  can lead to heart failure.
Today, fulfilling this mission is more complex and challenging than ever before, because the role of  business in society keeps evolving and creating new and greater expectations.
So, while our ultimate  goal is the same one we’ve always had – to improve lives – today we do that in more ways, for more  people, than ever before.
This report details our commitment to being a responsible and sustainable  enterprise, and provides a broad range of our related efforts and their positive effects.
We thank you for your interest in, and support of, Abbott and our work.
As you’ll see in this report,  we’ve continued to make important progress in the areas most important to the long-term welfare of  our business and our varied stakeholders, which we’ve pursued consistently over time.
In the months  and years ahead, we’ll keep raising that commitment as we create long-term value for all the people  we’re here to serve.
Best regards, MILES D.
WHITE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Our Business  .
Corporate Governance .
Sustainability at Abbott .
Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals .
1          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LIVING LONGER  AND BETTER Abbott is in the business of life, helping people live longer   and better at all ages and stages of life through good health.
We do so through life-changing technologies and products that  drive breakthroughs in prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
We also do so by anticipating changes in medical science and  technology to deliver the future of healthcare.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOUR BUSINESS Abbott’s four core businesses are positioned for leadership  across diverse markets and geographies, providing more  ways to grow by helping people live better lives: •  Our medical devices business advances innovative  technologies in cardiovascular care, diabetes   management, and chronic pain and movement disorders.
•  Our diagnostics business provides accurate, timely  information so people can make better decisions for  their health.
•  Our nutrition business uses the latest science to create  better ways to nourish bodies at every stage of life.
•  Our medicines business delivers high-quality, trusted  and affordable medicines to help people get and   stay healthy.
In each of our businesses, we innovate early, moving  quickly to address developing health needs and empowering  people and their doctors with the data and knowledge  required to make better, faster and more complete  decisions about their health.
Our ability to respond in this way ultimately depends  upon our sustainability as a business.
This includes  operating ethically and responsibly, ensuring quality and  safety, valuing our people, building a resilient supply chain  and delivering results for our shareholders.
Our core values of Pioneering, Achieving, Caring and  Enduring are the foundation of our identity as a company.
They define how we do our work and serve our stakeholders.
Aligning our organization around this cohesive set of  values is critical to the fulfillment of our mission and the  achievement of our business goals.
•  Pioneering: Bringing life-changing health technologies  to the people who need it •  Achieving: Delivering customer-focused outcomes   and world-class execution •  Caring: Helping people live fuller lives through   better health •  Enduring: Managing the company to ensure its   long-term success In this report, we share our progress in delivering  sustainable and responsible growth that improves lives  and creates value in communities around the world.$30.6 BILLION   NET SALES  WORLDWIDE $2.3 BILLION INVESTED IN   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT$2 BILLION RETURNED  IN DIVIDENDS TO  SHAREHOLDERS MORE THAN $62 MILLION   INVESTED IN COMMUNITIES$ 3          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTThe ability to diagnose conditions quickly, without the need for a specialized  laboratory, has a transformative effect on the accessibility of healthcare.
With the integration of our rapid diagnostics business in 2018,  Abbott   expanded the testing solutions that we make available at the point of care.
Our diagnostics solutions cut the distance that many people need to travel   for testing and the time they must wait for treatment.
These products help   prevent the undiagnosed spread of epidemics and infectious diseases, and  keep communities safe through fast, reliable toxicology tests.
The following  demonstrates the impact of our rapid diagnostics business in 2018.
Note  that the rest of this report does not include data from this business unless  otherwise stated.A CLOSER LOOK AT ABBOTT'S    RAPID DIAGNOSTICS BUSINESS “We’re focused on innovating and delivering best-in-class rapid diagnostics and  monitoring that increase access to quality healthcare in all settings, from urban  areas to the most remote and resource-limited regions of the world.” – CHRIS SCOGGINS   SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, RAPID DIAGNOSTICS2 BILLION diagnostic tests delivered in 20182.6 MILLION molecular tests delivered in 2018NO.
toxicology testing and specialty labs WE ARE THE GLOBAL LEADER    in rapid testing of a number of infectious diseases   including HIV, malaria, dengue fever and   respiratory diseases, such as influenza, strep A   and pneumonia.IN 2018    we derived more than half our total revenue from   outpatient settings.
We’re delivering life-changing   technology that reflects where healthcare is heading —   closer to patients.
1 BILLION+ lateral flow tests sold in 2018120+ COUNTRIES utilize Abbott HIV tests170 MILLION malaria tests sold in 2018NO.
position in U.S. physician office  laboratory (POL) respiratory* *Based on revenue share only of total respiratory market including flu, Strep A and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV); market defined as rapid tests and Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)-waived only molecular tests.
ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCORPORATE GOVERNANCE Abbott is committed to strong corporate governance   that aligns with stakeholder interests.
Abbott’s Board   of Directors spends significant time with Abbott’s   senior management to understand the dynamics, issues  and opportunities in its environment, and to provide   both insights and ask probing questions that guide  decision-making.
This collaborative approach to risk  oversight and emphasis on long-term sustainability begins  with our leaders and is ingrained in Abbott’s culture.
The Board also regularly monitors leading practices and  trends in governance and adopts measures that it determines  are in the best interest of Abbott and its stakeholders.
Board Leadership Abbott’s Board of Directors consists of our Chairman   and CEO, Miles D.
White, and 12 independent directors.
This composition achieves strong Board independence,  with no director accountable to company management.
To further strengthen the Board’s independence, the  Board has a Lead Independent Director, William A.
Osborn.
The Board has determined that this leadership  structure ensures the appropriate level of oversight,  independence, and responsibility is applied to all Board  decisions, including risk oversight.
As Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. White  provides cohesive leadership and direction for the Board  and executive management, who benefit from his extensive  industry expertise, leadership experience, and familiarity  with our business.
As Lead Independent Director, Mr. Osborn has clearly  defined responsibilities, including presiding over executive  sessions of independent directors at each regularly  scheduled board meeting, reviewing matters such as  meeting topics and schedules, and consulting and  engaging with major shareholders.
The Lead Independent  Director is elected annually by the independent directors.
Board Composition and Diversity   In the process of identifying nominees to serve as a  member of the Board of Directors, the Nominations and  Governance Committee considers the Board’s diversity of  relevant experience, areas of expertise, ethnicity, gender  and geography, and assesses the effectiveness of the  process in achieving that diversity.
In addition, Board  members should have backgrounds that, when combined,  provide a portfolio of experience and knowledge that   will serve Abbott’s governance and strategic needs.
The process used to identify and select nominees has  resulted in an experienced, diverse and well-rounded  Board of Directors that possesses the skills and perspectives  necessary for its oversight role.
Three new directors have  been appointed since 2017 , each of whom have a unique  expertise and executive leadership to supplement the  Board’s skills and provide fresh perspective following a  period of strategic shaping of the business.
Six of the 13 directors are women or minorities.
The  Board’s diversity ensures that the company’s thinking is  informed by a wide range of perspectives.
It is part of a  commitment to diversity that applies at every level of our  company.
Forty-three percent of Abbott’s management  positions were filled by women in 2018, and the company  was named one of the year’s Top Companies for Executive  Women and one of the Top 50 Companies for Diversity   for the 15th time.
In 2018, Abbott was again recognized   by 2020 Women on Boards as a leader in its campaign to  increase women’s participation on corporate boards to   20 percent by 2020, a goal Abbott has met since 2010.
To learn more about our Board members’ experience   and qualifications, visit the Governance section of   our website .
6-10 YEARS  5 DIRECTORS 0-5 YEARS  3 DIRECTORS 11+ YEARS   5 DIRECTORS9-YEAR AVERAGE   TENURE 5          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTBoard Committees The Board has four key committees: Audit, Compensation,  Nominations and Governance and Public Policy.
Each of  these board committees are fully independent.
•  Audit Committee: Assists the Board of Directors in  fulfilling its oversight responsibility with respect to  Abbott’s accounting and financial reporting practices  and the audit process; the quality and integrity of  Abbott’s financial statements; the independent auditors’  qualifications, independence and performance; the  performance of Abbott’s internal audit function and  internal auditors; certain areas of legal and regulatory  compliance; and enterprise risk management (ERM),  including major financial and cybersecurity risk  exposures.
Each year, the committee receives a full  report from our ERM leadership and discusses the topic  at both the committee and Board level.
To learn more  about Abbott’s approach to ERM, see page 10 .
•  Compensation Committee: Assists the Board of  Directors in carrying out the Board’s responsibilities  relating to the compensation of Abbott’s executive  officers and directors; annually reviews the compensation  paid to the members of the Board and gives its   recommendations to the full Board regarding both the  amount of director compensation that should be paid  and the allocation of that compensation between  equity-based awards and cash; and reviews, approves and administers the incentive compensation plans in  which any executive officer of Abbott participates and  all of Abbott’s equity-based plans.
•  Nominations and Governance Committee: Assists the  Board of Directors in identifying individuals qualified to  become Board members and executive officers of Abbott;  and serves in an advisory capacity to the Board and the  Chairman of the Board on matters of organization,  management succession plans, major changes in the  organizational structure of Abbott and the conduct of  Board activities.
•  Public Policy Committee: Assists the Board of Directors  in fulfilling its oversight responsibility with respect   to Abbott’s public policy, certain areas of legal and  regulatory compliance and governmental affairs and  healthcare compliance issues that affect Abbott.
A full description of the functions carried out by each  board committee is available on the Governance section   of our website .
DIVERSITY OF BOARD EXPERIENCES • Financial acumen • Consumer facing • International experience • Strategic shaping • Data/cybersecurity • Medical devices/healthcare • Global supply chain operationsWOMEN   DIRECTORS 6          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTBoard Evaluation Each year, Abbott’s directors evaluate the effectiveness   of the Board and its Committees in performing its  governance and risk oversight responsibilities.
Directors  assess the performance of the Board of Directors, each   of the Comittees on which they serve and their peers   as follows: BOARD, COMMITTEE, PEER EVALUATIONS Written evaluations solicit feedback on matters such as: • Board structure and composition • Quality of director participation • Effectiveness of risk oversight responsibilities • Fulfillment of charter responsibilities •  Access to information, management and   other resourcesCOLLECTION AND REVIEW OF RESULTS To ensure candid feedback, directors submit their  evaluation responses to an independent third party   who anonymizes all responses and compiles them into  reports to the Board and Committees.
Each Committee reviews its respective evaluation  responses and shares them with the full Board.INCORPORATION OF FEEDBACK Feedback requiring additional consideration is addressed  at subsequent Board and Committee meetings, and  opportunities for additional enhancements are identified,  considered and implemented as appropriate.
The Chair of the Nominations and Governance   Committee discusses peer evaluation results with  individual directors as needed.> > 7          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAbbott’s approach to sustainability starts with the people  we serve and our mission to help people live better and  healthier.
We achieve this through the way we operate   and by innovating life-changing technologies and products.
We aim to deliver sustainable, responsible growth that  improves lives and creates value in communities around  the world.
We believe that sustainability is built on systems thinking,  collaboration and applying our unique strengths.
The  following principles inform our approach and help amplify  the inherently positive social impact that a healthcare  business such as ours should have.
•  We drive a system of governance that puts sustainability  at the heart of our business.
From Research and   Development (R&D) to Supply Chain and Manufacturing  Operations to Product Marketing, we manage our  environmental, social and governance impacts to  maximize efficiency and effectiveness.•  We recognize that the healthcare environment is  complex and interconnected.
We invest in understanding  the changing needs of different countries and cultures,  and the impact of a changing external and operating  environment.
By identifying the most material issues   for our business and the developing needs of the people  we serve, we can make purposeful, intentional decisions  about how best to position our business for the future.
•  We build together by listening to the stakeholders most  impacted  by our products.
We work with patients,  consumers, healthcare practitioners, caretakers, external  partners and suppliers to deliver sustainable impact.
•  We apply our unique strengths as a business in a focused  way by identifying and investing in the most impactful,  life-changing innovations; evolving our business to meet  emerging healthcare needs; or finding measurable ways  to address social challenges through our scientific and  technical expertise.“Sustainability is embedded in our  core values at Abbott.
We want to  have an enduring impact in helping  people live better – which means  we have to think, and act, for   the long term.
This extends to  everything we do, across our   businesses and in partnership   with others.”   MELISSA BROTZ  VICE PRESIDENT,  GLOBAL MARKETING AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSUSTAINABILITY AT ABBOTT 8          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSustainability Governance  Abbott’s commitment to sustainable business starts at the  top and is integrated across our organization:  •  Our Board of Directors and senior management   lead our sustainability activities.
The Board’s Public  Policy Committee is responsible for reviewing and  evaluating our policies and practices regarding   corporate responsibility.
•  Our Global Citizenship Advisory Council (GCAC), a  group of independent expert advisors and thought  leaders in the area of sustainability, provides Abbott with  guidance on strategic sustainability issues.
This includes  identifying risk and opportunities across our organization.
The GCAC members include: –  Margaret Flaherty, Senior Advisor, FSG, and Professor,  Business School Lausanne –  David Logan, Co-Founding Director, Corporate  Citizenship –  Jane Nelson, Senior Fellow and Director, CSR Initiatives,  Harvard Kennedy School – David Vidal, Emeritus Fellow, The Conference Board •   Abbott’s Global Sustainability team takes the lead in  implementing our sustainability strategy, working with  our four businesses, key functional areas and affiliates  around the world.
The Global Sustainability team  reports to our Vice President and Chief Marketing and  External Affairs Officer who reports directly to our  Chairman and CEO.
•  The Global Operations Council (GOC) oversees execution  of the strategy for all Abbott operations (Manufacturing,  Supply Chain, Engineering and Environment, Health  and Safety) based on internal assessment, risk profiles  and industry best practices to continuously improve  Abbott’s performance.
The council is chaired by our  Senior Vice President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory   and Engineering Services, and includes three corporate  officers and 26 divisional vice presidents, representing  division and corporate operations.
For more information  on our management of operational sustainability, see   the Safeguarding Our Environment, Strengthening   Our Supply Chain and Valuing Our People sections   of this report.
•  Abbott’s cross-functional Sustainability Working Group  leads the integration of sustainability within our business  and oversees Abbott’s reporting of environmental, social  and governance (ESG) performance.
The team includes  representatives from Corporate Purchasing, Global  Environment, Health and Safety, Ethics and Compliance,  Quality and Regulatory Affairs, Cybersecurity, Human  Resources, Supply Chain, Legal, Corporate Governance,  Research and Development, Investor Relations, Global  Marketing, Government Affairs and Commercial  Operations.
It also includes representatives from our  affiliate operations in key markets around the world.
•  Several of our global affiliates have formed their own  local cross-functional sustainability working groups,  which embed responsible business practices and   drive stakeholder engagement initiatives tailored   to local needs.
9          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTManaging Sustainability Risks and Opportunities It is important that our sustainability strategy reflects  changing healthcare needs, emerging challenges   and priorities, as well as the changing nature of   Abbott’s business.
Our enterprise risk management (ERM) process focuses  on risks that have the capacity to impact our business  performance.
Our analysis of materiality broadens our  perspective to consider all our stakeholders’ expectations  of a sustainable business, and the risks and opportunities  that relate to meeting those expectations.Enterprise Risk Management Our ERM process is designed to evaluate risks on a  consistent basis, measuring likelihood, impact and velocity  to ensure the largest risks to Abbott have the appropriate  focus and attention of our management team.
In late 2017 , we formed a new ERM network team with  eight functional experts, led by Abbott’s Vice President,  Internal Audit, who is a corporate officer.
The network  brings additional structure and consistency to risk  evaluation and works to integrate ERM within our  business.
This group engages with a number of stakeholders  who are subject matter experts on various enterprise risks,  helping to identify additional mitigating actions that may  be required to ensure risk management keeps pace with  business strategy.
Abbott’s Vice President, Internal Audit,  presents an overall ERM update to the Audit Committee  of the Board of Directors once a year, and, in addition,  detailed reviews of specific enterprise risks are completed  with the Board of Directors or its committees throughout  the year.Emerging Risk – Product Cybersecurity Product cybersecurity is an emerging risk area for Abbott.
Our products provide critical therapies and information— sometimes in real-time—to help people and their doctors  better manage patient outcomes.
These connected devices  are transforming healthcare, providing immense benefits  to patients and physicians.
However, they also create new  risks for Abbott and our industry.
Failing to implement robust safety and cybersecurity  measures could result in reputational and regulatory risks  both for Abbott and for our industry as a whole.
According  to a survey commissioned by Abbott in 2018, 75 percent   of physicians and 62 percent of hospital administrators  feel inadequately trained or prepared to mitigate cyber risks.
A lack of confidence in our products from a cybersecurity  perspective could result in impacts to our market growth,  reputation and the regulatory environment.
10          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT11          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWWe believe that an industry-wide approach is essential for  protecting patients and their data, which is vital if we are  to realize the immense potential benefits of connected  healthcare.
We take a comprehensive approach to  protecting the devices, products and systems that connect  patients to healthcare professionals and institutions.
We  have evolved our cybersecurity governance approach to  encompass the entire product life cycle, from product  design to risk analysis and testing by internal and external  experts.
Abbott’s cybersecurity partners include other  members of the healthcare industry, trade associations,  security experts, academic institutions and the research  community.
For further details of our cybersecurity  governance and management approach, see page 35 .
Emerging Risk – Disruptive Technologies  Health systems are dealing with some of their most  significant challenges ever – from increased patient   needs to price pressure and consolidation.
Now more   than ever, our customers need partners and solutions   that can address these challenges and revolutionize   the way care is delivered.
One way to do that is by   bringing diagnostics closer to the patient.Emerging technologies have the potential to change lives  by bringing greater access to testing.
They also create the  potential for new entrants to disrupt the diagnostics  industry, leaving Abbott in a position where our traditional  products do not meet customers’ needs.
Additionally, the  entrance of nontraditional competitors in the healthcare  market could impact future growth potential.
To remain competitive, Abbott needs to continue innovating  new technologies that are relevant in the changing  healthcare landscape.
As the leader in point-of-care  testing, we have the scientific expertise and market  understanding to be one of the most relevant players in  this new environment.
We are already providing testing   in hospital, clinics, physicians’ offices, pharmacies and   in the most remote locations in emerging markets.
Our  scientists are actively researching and developing the   next generation of diagnostic technologies.
For further  details of Abbott’s life-changing diagnostics technologies ,  see page 4 .ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMateriality Analysis Abbott takes a deliberate approach to shaping our  business to reflect changing healthcare needs and  opportunities.
An important element in moving our  company forward involves updating our assessment of  materiality for Abbott to reflect the way our business has  evolved.
In recent years, we have conducted materiality  assessments that monitor the most important issues   to Abbott, our industry and our priority stakeholders.
In 2018, our executive management team committed   to developing a new sustainability strategy building off  these assessments that will launch in 2020.
The strategy will be grounded in an updated approach   to assessing materiality for Abbott that we developed   and conducted in partnership with an external consultancy,  Corporate Citizenship.
This materiality process included five stages:  1.
We conducted extensive research on potential issues  that included engaging ratings and rankings organizations,  peers and competitors, tracking emerging issues   and consulting best practices from across   different industries.
2.
Abbott’s Executive Leadership team, which represents  all of Abbott’s divisions and corporate functions,  convened to prioritize the topics with the greatest  impact on Abbott over the next 5-10 years.
3.
We interviewed senior leaders from across our   organization to further refine the priority topics.
4.
We met with a number of key external stakeholders,  including customers, suppliers, investors,   nongovernmental organizations, academics and  regulators to collect feedback on the prioritized topics.
5.
We synthesized the internal and external feedback into  a list of 18 material issues, prioritized into three tiers,  which was approved by Abbott’s Executive Leadership  team and will serve as the foundation of our   sustainability strategy.TIER   ONE• Innovation • Data and Data Privacy • Access and Affordability • Talent • Government and Regulation • Product Quality and Safety TIER   TWO• Supply Chain • Ethics and Compliance • Cybersecurity • Corporate Governance • Climate Change • Transparency and Reporting • Water TIER  THREE• Executive Compensation • Human Rights • Antimicrobial Resistance • Animal Welfare • Clinical Trial Transparency 12          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWIn 2018, our executive management team   committed to developing a new sustainability  strategy that will launch in 2020.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEngaging Stakeholders  Abbott is an active participant in the global dialogue on  health and the broader role of business.
We know that  listening to our stakeholders and responding with  relevant, local solutions that meet people’s changing needs  and tackle the world’s most important health challenges  are vital to our success as a business.
Our stakeholder engagement is conducted formally,  through the many associations and partnerships of which  we are members.
We also seek to engage with stakeholders  more informally, through networks and organizations in which we participate.
Our local country businesses play an important role in  forming relationships with stakeholders.
To promote   and ensure local implementation of our approach, we   have a defined methodology, designed to be used on a  cross-functional basis within each business and affiliate  where we operate.We have developed a stakeholder engagement process   that guides Abbott leaders in setting local engagement  strategies.
Local teams are required to review their  stakeholder engagement strategies on a regular basis.
The outcomes of local stakeholder engagement are  reported in country-level citizenship reports or at local  stakeholder forums.
Through our engagement, we aim to stay well informed   of the major issues of concern to all stakeholders wherever  we operate.Customer Satisfaction  Our Net Promoter Score® (NPS) is an externally recognized  metric for customer satisfaction, and we see it as an  important measure of our success in meeting our customers’  needs.
As an example of our performance, NPS for our  diagnostics business increased from 32.1 in 2010 to 55.7   in 2018.
13          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT14          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWSTAKEHOLDER GROUP ENGAGEMENT METHODS Investors • Investor calls  • In-person meetings •  Annual shareholders meeting, quarterly earnings calls   and conferences (full investor calendar webpage) • Investor newsletter  • Annual Report• Global Sustainability Report • Investor section of Abbott.com •  Social media (Twitter®, Facebook®, Instagram®,  YouTube® and LinkedIn®) • Email alerts Customers • Customer meetings • Customer call centers  • Sales ambassadors and customer relationship managers • Field service representatives •  Business and country representatives (Worldwide  Contacts webpage)•  Consumer and healthcare professional sections of  Abbott.com • Brand websites •  Social media (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube   and LinkedIn) • Focus groups • Clinical trials Suppliers For more details on supplier engagement, see Strengthening  Our Supply Chain (page 59).• Strategic partnerships  • Procurement specialists • Supplier Guidelines published in multiple languages • Supplier Diversity Policy and Program •  Supplier Social Responsibility Program,   including surveys• Supplier audit programs • Supplier scorecards •  Active leadership in the Diverse Manufacturing Supply  Chain Alliance (DMSCA) • Suppliers sections of Abbott.com Employees For more details on employee engagement, see Valuing Our  People (page 70) and Addressing Social Issues (page 87).• Annual Employee Living Fully survey • Division Culture surveys • Ease of Working with HR survey  •  Annual all-employee meeting with our Chairman   and CEO • Business and functional town hall meetings • Employee networks• Abbott World intranet • Abbott World Today daily email article • aLIVE smartphone app • Yammer® groups • Employee Giving Campaign  • Internal employee volunteering website Governments For more details on government engagement, see Promoting  Ethics and Integrity (page 19) and Addressing Social Issues  (page 87).• Government affairs liaisons  • Trade associations/organizations • Abbott Employee Political Action Committee• Global Citizenship programs • Corporate Political Participation webpage of Abbott.comABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABLE  DEVELOPMENT GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS EXAMPLE GOAL 1  End poverty in all its forms everywhere Abbott and the Abbott Fund have a long history of providing humanitarian relief around the world in times of disaster.
Through grants and product donation support, we are committed to helping communities impacted by disaster in  alignment with SDG Target 1.5. We take a comprehensive approach, working with trusted partner organizations by  focusing on preparedness, response and recovery to build more resilient communities.
For more information, go to the  Disaster Relief page on our website .
GOAL End hunger, achieve food security and improved  nutrition and promote sustainable agricultureCombining a century’s worth of Abbott science-based nutrition expertise and Abbott Fund investment with PATH’s  innovative Ultra Rice formulation technology and on-the-ground expertise, we have transformed a bowl of rice into a  micronutrient-rich meal.
For more information, go to the Ultra Rice page on our website .
GOAL Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all   at all agesAbbott’s diabetes care business has revolutionized continuous glucose monitoring with FreeStyle® Libre.
Go to our  website to learn more about how Abbott has developed a life-changing experience for people with diabetes.
Additionally, our rapid diagnostic tests help fight malaria in the Indian state hit hardest by the disease.
Read more about  how we are working to eliminate malaria on our website and find out more about the many other ways we improve  health by visiting Abbott.com.
In assessing what sustainability means to Abbott, we   monitor how our priorities and material issues align   with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)   published by the United Nations (UN).
The following  examples represent some of the many ways in which   our work to help people live better and healthier lives  intersects with the SDGs. 15          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT16          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS EXAMPLE GOAL Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and  promote lifelong learning opportunities for allThrough science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education, Abbott and the Abbott Fund are inspiring the  next generation of innovators.
Since the inception of our STEM programs, we have leveraged employee expertise to  deliver engaging educational programs in more than 1,000 schools and community partnerships reaching more than  325,000 kids.
Read more about our STEM programs on the Science Education page of our website .
GOAL Achieve gender equality and empower all women   and girlsIn 2018, Abbott was named a Working Mother magazine Top 100 company for the 18th year.
After hitting the magazine’s  hall-of-fame status in 2016, we have continued our efforts in evaluating employees’ greatest needs in markets around   the world where we have offices.
We are proud that working mothers can find the flexibility they need to live their fullest  lives at work and at home.
Read more about Abbott’s achievement on our website .
GOAL Ensure availability and sustainable management of   water and sanitation for allAccess to water is essential to Abbott’s manufacturing operations and business continuity, and it also plays a critical role  in the use of many of our products.
We are committed to managing our water use in an efficient, responsible manner,   as well as to improving access to clean water for our customers and the communities in which we operate.
Through our  2020 water reduction target to decrease Abbott’s total water intake by 30 percent by 2020, compared to 2010 and adjusted  for sales, we ensure the water efficiency of our operations and reduce our water-related impacts.
Since 2010, we have  reduced our water intake by more than 3 percent on an absolute basis and 27 percent when adjusted for sales.
See page 48   in Safeguarding Our Environment for more details.
ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT1.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions were calculated using the World Resources   Council (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP).
To calculate our Scope 2  emissions, we use the GHGP market-based methodology.
Where market-based  information is not available, location-based results have been used as proxy.
For full details on our carbon emissions , including market- and location-based  calculations, please see pages 103 , 106-108 in the Reporting on   Sustainability section.
17          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEWSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS EXAMPLE GOAL Take urgent action to combat climate change and   its impactsAbbott is committed to identifying and mitigating climate-related risks that impact our operations, supply chain and  distribution network.
A core part of Abbott’s business strategy includes reducing our energy and carbon footprint in  our operations.
Our 2020 carbon emission reduction target to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 40 percent against  2010 levels, adjusted for sales, is evidence of our commitment to address and reduce emissions.
In 2018, we achieved a  42 percent reduction, adjusted for sales since 2010.Additionally, we set an aggressive target to reduce the total weight of our packaging by 10 percent by 2020, compared  to our 2010 baseline.
We surpassed our initial goal in 2017 and continued this trajectory of progress by achieving total  annualized reductions of 14 percent in 2018.
Through this achievement, we have eliminated approximately 41.3 million  pounds of packaging since 2010.
See page 57 in Safeguarding Our Environment for more details.
ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT18          SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW2018 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS CYBERSECURITY 2 DEDICATED   ORGANIZATIONS responsible for cybersecurity risk management,   enabling greater focus on two equally important   areas for our business • Enterprise • Product CybersecurityACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY  50% REDUCTION IN   MORTALITY RATE at Tanzania’s Muhimbili National Hospital   due to a $130 million investment   in the Tanzanian healthcare system,   as well as training more than   300 PHYSICIANS,   NURSES AND STUDENTS $120+ SAVED   EACH MONTH by FreeStyle Libre users who can eliminate   of the cost of test strips‡ while also minimizing   the cost of diabetes-related complications,   including cost of additional treatment that could lead to hospitalizations and other   long-term care§,II   INNOVATION  $2.3 BILLION    invested in research and development  3 LEADING CONNECTED   CARE DEVICES    that let patients and doctors remotely monitor   chronic conditions, helping reduce costs and   improving patients’ quality of life • Diabetes: FreeStyle® Libre • Cardiac Rhythm Management: Confirm Rx™ • Heart Failure: CardioMEMS™  HF System *Includes Alere employees †Percentages as of December 31, 2018.
Percentages represent count of U.S. employees, excluding rapid diagnostics business.
Management positions are defined as grades 17–49.
‡Hellmund R.
Cost calculation and adherence to ADA recommendations based on a flash continuous glucose monitoring system.
Presented at the American Diabetes Association 78th Scientific Sessions.
https://plan.core-apps.com/tristar_ada18/abstract/       5188446740e191fd289345d56a78cdc§Hellmund R.
Cost calculation and adherence to ADA recommendations based on a flash continuous glucose monitoring system for people with T1DM or T2DM using MDI therapy [Abstract].
Diabetes.
2018;67 (Suppl 1):69-LB.
https://doi.org/10.2337/db18-69-LB IIHellmund R, Weitgasser R, Blissett D.
Cost calculation for a flash glucose monitoring system for UK adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus receiving intensive insulin treatment.
Diabetes Res Clin Pract.
2018.
https://ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29410149$TALENT  103,000 EMPLOYEES* serving people in more than   160 countries 46% FEMALE† U.S. workforce 34% MINORITIES† U.S. management positions 7,500+ EMPLOYEES participated in our leadership and   development programs —   up 45% from 7,000+ EMPLOYEES involved in one of nine   employee networksABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Our Compliance Program .
Combating Corruption and Bribery .
Public Policy Engagement .
26SECTION 19          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITY ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING TRUST   IN ALL WE DO As a global healthcare business, Abbott works to make a positive impact  on healthcare decisions throughout the world to advance people’s  ability to live full and healthy lives.
We must demonstrate that this advocacy is always maintained ethically  and responsibly.
We are committed to adhering to all applicable laws and  regulations and always operating honestly, fairly and with integrity.
We report on the channels and structures through which we embed   ethical behavior at all levels of our organization, building a culture of  compliance that engages all of our employees.
We also describe how,  through our approach, we are able to detect and address emerging   ethical issues and compliance risks.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe have designed our global ethics and compliance  program to align with the elements of an effective  program as described in the voluntary Compliance  Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers  published in 2003 by the Office of Inspector General,   U.S. Department of Health and Human Services   (HHS-OIG).
Our policies also incorporate code of conduct  guidelines from applicable medical technology trade  associations, including AdvaMed, APACMed, MedTech  Europe and MECOMED.
The key elements of Abbott’s compliance program are: • Leadership • Written standards of conduct • A process for reporting concerns • Training and communications • Auditing and monitoring • Investigations and corrective actions • Risk assessments and compliance enhancementsIn several countries, laws require additional transparency  and restrictions on conduct when businesses interact with  healthcare providers.
Abbott complies with all such local  requirements, including additional certification, tracking  and reporting on payments and transfers of value.
These  additional transparency laws exist at the federal and   state levels in the United States and in countries such as  Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Denmark, France,  Indonesia, the Philippines, Portugal, Romania, South  Korea and Turkey.“At Abbott, ethics and compliance  are a critical part of how we do  business every day.
Our most  important job in the Ethics and  Compliance organization is to  work closely with Abbott leaders  to continuously build this culture  throughout all levels of our   global organization.”   JAMES YOUNG  VICE PRESIDENT,  CHIEF ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOUR COMPLIANCE PROGRAM  21          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEthics and Compliance Leadership Abbott’s Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer (CECO)   is the vice president responsible for leading our ethics   and compliance program and managing our Office of  Ethics and Compliance (OEC).
The CECO regularly  reports compliance matters to our Chairman and CEO,   to our Chief Operating Officer, to senior-level leaders   and to our Board of Directors and its committees.
Abbott’s Business Conduct Committee (BCC), which   is chaired by the CECO, assists in implementing the  compliance program.
This group meets regularly to  discuss the changing legal and regulatory environment,  monitor best practices and refine Abbott’s approach.
The BCC consists of senior-level leadership and is directly  accountable to our Chairman and CEO.
Each Abbott business has dedicated OEC staff members  that support the business on implementing our ethics   and compliance program.
Outside the United States, we  operate an affiliate compliance program that is managed  by local affiliate compliance committees.
The committees  include top executives from all of Abbott’s businesses  within a country and are responsible for the day-to-day  execution of the compliance program.
The committees  monitor compliance, provide training and ensure employee  awareness and engagement.
They meet regularly to  discuss emerging issues and work with local OEC staff   to implement new programs.Policies and Standards of Conduct Our Code of Business Conduct is the foundation for  ethical conduct at Abbott.
Our code is available in print  and online in 29 languages, and every Abbott employee   is required to read the code and certify his or her   adherence annually.
The code embodies our company values and expectations.
It establishes the principle that it is every employee’s  responsibility to live Abbott’s values every day, including:  holding themselves to the highest ethical standards,  keeping a watchful eye on our activities, reporting  concerns in good faith and always operating with honesty,  fairness and integrity.
Key areas highlighted in the code  include adhering to policies and procedures, treating  confidential information appropriately, avoiding conflicts  of interest and maintaining accurate books and records.
The code clearly states that Abbott does not tolerate illegal  or unethical behavior in any aspect of our business and  that employees are required to ask questions and/or  report any concerns.
We have developed a Decision Making AID (Assess  Impact Decide) framework, which is designed to help   our employees apply the code’s principles.
In addition   to guiding their own actions, this helps our employees  monitor behavior, ask questions and report concerns.
Our written policy called Employee Problem Solving is  designed to support the open exchange of information and  help employees resolve concerns.
It applies to all Abbott  employees worldwide, except where local laws and/or  collective bargaining agreements dictate otherwise.
An important part of our commitment to supporting  patients, consumers and healthcare professionals is an  obligation to communicate responsibly about our products  and services and the alternatives that exist.
Our policies  and procedures ensure that our activities conform to   the regulatory licenses and approvals that we obtain to  promote, sell and import medical devices, diagnostics,  nutrition products and medicines.
We update our ethics and compliance policies regularly   to reflect changes to the law or industry codes, including  rules on interactions with healthcare professionals.
In  2018, we rolled out the Code of Business Conduct and  compliance policies and procedures to our newly acquired  rapid diagnostics business.
22          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTransparency on Nutrition  Our nutrition business is dedicated to developing   science-based nutrition products for people of all ages.
We are committed to ethically marketing our products   and ensuring that our practices comply with the laws   and regulations of the countries where we do business.
We also are responsible for taking steps to ensure that our  conduct, at every level in this regard, conforms to our  nutrition business’s Global Infant Formula Marketing  Policy and local laws in the countries where we operate.
Process for Reporting Concerns Our Code of Business Conduct emphasizes employee  reporting concerns.
This requires us to create an   environment where they can do so in good faith, without  fear of retaliation.
The code outlines Abbott’s responsibilities  for handling employee grievances and complaints in an  ethical way and strictly forbids any retaliation against any  person who raises a complaint.
We have clearly defined systems and processes for asking  questions and reporting suspected or actual violations of  our code, policies or procedures.
These include a web-based  Ethics and Compliance helpline with live telephone  support and translation services for non-English speakers.
The helpline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a  week.
Employees may also contact OEC staff or the CECO  directly.
We also have additional systems in place for  reporting through social media channels, which includes  reporting concerns, responding to questions on ethics or  handling reports of suspected or actual violations.
Training and Awareness Abbott’s employees participate in a global online Legal  and Ethics Resource Network (LERN) training program,  which educates them on all aspects of the code and  provides practical guidance on how to recognize and  respond to legal and ethical issues.
We provide LERN  training in 95 countries and 27 languages.
We also run  localized training initiatives that focus on executing  Abbott’s policies in alignment with applicable local laws.
We supplement training with communications designed to  raise awareness of and engagement in compliance issues.
These include emails, newsletters, videos and issue  highlights on our OEC intranet site.
Our OEC staff also  participate in global, national and regional sales meetings,  as well as local site meetings, creating the opportunity to  discuss compliance issues face to face.
23          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYLEGAL AND ETHICS RESOURCE NETWORK  (LERN) TRAINING 95 COUNTRIES 27 LANGUAGESLERNABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMonitoring and Accountability  We oversee compliance with our policies and procedures  through periodic auditing and monitoring, with the  frequency guided by an assessment of compliance risks   for different business interactions and regions.
We track  action items from our audits and monitoring to ensure  that any business process enhancements or corrections  are made in a timely fashion.
Investigations and Corrective Actions Adhering to our Code of Business Conduct is a condition  of continued employment at Abbott.
We investigate all  reports of potential violations of our code, policies or  procedures, and take appropriate corrective action.
Any Abbott employee who violates our code, policies or  procedures is subject to appropriate disciplinary action,  which may include termination.
Corrective action may  also include terminating third-party relationships.
Any Abbott employee who refuses to cooperate in an  investigation may also be subject to disciplinary action,   as may any employee who reports a concern that is  knowingly false or intended to threaten, intimidate   or retaliate.
Abbott does not tolerate retaliation against anyone who  reports a violation in good faith.
These guidelines are well  publicized and enforced throughout the company.
We regularly report information about investigations to  our Board of Directors and senior management, and  communicate the results of investigations, audits,  assessments and monitoring to the appropriate   OEC staff and business leaders.
When an area for   improvement is identified, the OEC collaborates with  business leaders to take corrective action.Risk Assessments  The OEC regularly assesses compliance risks by monitoring  the results of internal investigations, audits and monitoring  programs and paying close attention to the external risk  environment.
This includes changes to industry codes   and best practices, guidance from governments and  enforcement actions taken against other companies.
As  emerging compliance risk is identified, the OEC develops  plans for improvements and enhancements.
An example of one of our assessment programs is the  Anti-Corruption Compliance Enhancement (ACE)  program, in which we conduct an in-depth evaluation   of the commercial practices of a particular country.
If risks are identified, the OEC and senior leaders   collaborate to develop compliance enhancements to  remediate the risks and track their implementation.
24          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAbbott is committed to preventing corruption in connection  with our global business activities.
The OEC has developed  a Third-Party Compliance Process to identify and address  corruption and bribery risks that occur when third parties  interact with government officials or healthcare providers  on Abbott’s behalf.
The Third-Party Compliance Process requires Abbott  businesses, subsidiaries and affiliates outside of the United  States to conduct due diligence prior to engaging third  parties who will perform services for Abbott.
This process  centralizes the functions of monitoring and mitigating  risks, reduces the time and costs involved in third-party  screening and provides an intuitive system that employees  can easily use to identify high-risk business partners.Key elements of the Third-Party Compliance Process  include: •  Screening ex-U.S. third parties that interact with  government officials or healthcare providers on   Abbott’s behalf  •  Contracting with third parties through written agreements  that contain compliance requirements •  Training, monitoring and auditing third parties   (in some circumstances) We routinely update our Third-Party Compliance Process  tools and resources to mitigate third-party risks and better  equip our business to prevent corruption and bribery.COMBATING CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY 25          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPublic policy impacts our ability to advance healthcare –  and make those advances accessible to the people they can  help.
We see it as part of our responsibility to ensure that  legislators and regulators understand Abbott’s views on  major healthcare issues and the repercussions of public  policy.
It is vital that our engagement in this area always  meets our ethical standards and complies with all   relevant laws.
Abbott’s public policy engagement is guided by the  following principles: •  We are committed to transparency and guided by our  Code of Business Conduct in all public policy engagement.
•  We pursue activities that shape policies to benefit the  people who need our products, with a focus on improving  access to new medical advances.
•  We are committed to participating in public policy  discussions that have the potential to impact   patients, consumers and our employees or Abbott’s  ability to continue to produce new medical and   nutritional advances.Abbott is a member of U.S. trade organizations that engage  in lobbying and other political activity.
This activity is  designed to champion our interests, those of our industry  and, most importantly, those of the people who rely on   our products.
We participate in the political process by contributing to  U.S. state and local candidates and political organizations  through our Abbott Employee Political Action Committee  (AEPAC).
We choose to support candidates and   organizations that we believe understand how government  actions can affect access to medical advances and that will  work to promote an environment that fosters continued  medical progress.
We do not make direct independent  expenditures on behalf of candidates running for public  office.
If such expenditures are made in the future, they  would be included in our semiannual report.
Our political contributions are bipartisan, made without  regard for the private political preferences of our officers  and executives, and are based on the following criteria: •  Policy positions of candidates that reflect Abbott’s  interests •  Representation of geographic areas where Abbott  employees and facilities are located •  Relevant legislative committee assignments of   office holders •  A candidate’s ability to be elected •  The need for financial assistance Abbott’s U.S. Government Affairs function, under the  direction of the Vice President of U.S. Government Affairs,  reviews and approves all political contributions.
This  includes ensuring that all contributions are consistent  with the company’s guidelines and in accordance with  applicable laws.
The Public Policy Committee of Abbott’s  Board of Directors reviews the company’s U.S. political  contributions policy annually.Public policy impacts our ability to advance  healthcare – and make those advances   accessible to the people they can help.
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT 26          PROMOTING ETHICS AND INTEGRITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY  Governance  .
Management Approach  .
Performance Updates .
Cybersecurity .
35SECTION 27          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DELIVERING QUALITY   AND SAFETY Trust in Abbott depends on our business consistently delivering products   that are safe, effective and high quality.
Everyone at Abbott is responsible   for maintaining trust.
As a global healthcare company operating in more than   160 countries, we are subject to laws of varying complexity around the world.
Operating in this environment requires continuous monitoring, as well as an  ability to adapt quickly to changing local regulations.
In order to create the future of healthcare, we must move quickly to respond   to emerging healthcare needs and opportunities, especially those in connected  care and digital health.
We must be rigorous in anticipating, identifying and  mitigating the risks involved in addressing those needs and investing in those  opportunities.
We are committed to embedding quality and safety throughout   our value chain, including cybersecurity risk management associated with the   use of our connected devices.
ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TResponsibility for quality and regulatory matters across  Abbott sits with our Senior Vice President, Quality  Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering Services,   a corporate officer who reports directly to our Chairman  and CEO.
Dedicated quality and regulatory leaders   within each Abbott business report to the heads of the  businesses they support and are accountable to the   Senior Vice President.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH     We take a holistic view of quality across our organization  and require our senior quality, regulatory and operations  leaders to meet quarterly to analyze trends and review  best practices.
This engagement helps maintain a leading  quality management system in line with global industry  standards and the changing regulatory landscape.
Our quality management system embeds the guiding  principle of continuous improvement in all areas of quality  and safety.
As part of this system, we maintain a set of  quality policies that incorporates regulatory requirements  from key global markets and ensures that we implement  robust and compliant processes across our businesses.
Quality Management System We track the quality performance of our businesses and  individual sites using a multicomponent model and  proprietary metrics that we review annually.
We respond  to changes in performance from a site or a business,  analyzing the causes of the change, either to address them  directly or to capture best practices to apply elsewhere in  our organization.
We are introducing predictive analytics  into our approach to tracking performance, using machine  learning models to identify and predict quality and  compliance risks and assist with root cause analysis.
Our global audit programs assess compliance to quality  and regulatory standards and processes, including design  controls, production and process controls, supply chain,  data integrity, corrective and preventive actions (CAPA)  and complaint handling.
We develop correction plans to  address all relevant audit observations.
Each of our  operating businesses also fulfills local regulatory  requirements for performing internal quality audits,   with findings highlighted in management reviews.GOVERNANCE “We are committed to upholding  our guiding principles of quality  and safety throughout our value  chain and living up to the trust   our customers place in us.”    CORLIS MURRAY  SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT,  QUALITY ASSURANCE, REGULATORY AND  ENGINEERING SERVICES ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur One Abbott Approach Our One Abbott global commercial quality assurance (QA)  initiative focuses on establishing common procedures and  processes for quality management across our businesses,  with a focus on four key areas: •  Organization and professional development  •  Operational excellence  •  Customer satisfaction  •  Supply chain assurance Since first launching the initiative in 2016, we have  succeeded in aligning our quality systems for managing  suppliers, nonconformance and CAPA, and documentation  management.
The One Abbott QA team has also hosted  two global conferences with attendees from across Abbott  businesses, which focused on defining best practices and  challenging the status quo.
Quality Certifications Abbott maintains certification to global industry standards  and has achieved independent quality certifications across  our Global Manufacturing, R&D and Commercial  Operations.
While some certifications are not required   by regulation, we embrace them as value-added, driving  operational excellence.
Our standards include: •  ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 17025, ISO 22000, ISO •  ISO 13485 (Medical Devices – Quality Management  Systems), with 100 percent of device facilities certified  • NSF (National Sanitation Foundation) International • GFCO (Gluten-Free Certification Organization) •  GMP+ FSA (Good Manufacturing Practices Plus and  Feed Safety Assurance) • Safety Assurance Certification • HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points) • Halal •  QAI (Quality Assurance International)   Organic Certification • Kosher • Class A CertificationProtecting Product Authenticity Ensuring the authenticity of products is critical for  maintaining trust in our brand.
We take action to identify  and eliminate counterfeit products in the marketplace  through a strategy focused on four key areas: •  Securing the global supply chain through continual  analysis for weak points and advanced investigative tools  to identify and prevent suspicious activities.
•  Including overt and covert security features to easily  identify authentic Abbott products.
These include  customized security labels, tamper-resistant seals and  security features for cartons.
•  Disrupting criminal organizations through our work  with local law enforcement and regulatory organizations  to identify transnational criminals involved in   counterfeiting, diversion and theft.
•  Working closely with industry, governments and other  organizations to share insights and strategies and  formulate joint action plans.
30          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY96% MANUFACTURING  SITES   MDSAP   CERTIFIEDMEDICAL DEVICE SINGLE AUDIT PROGRAM  (MDSAP)ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT31          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYIn 2018, we implemented a program to leverage  state-of-the-art analytic techniques to identify and  eliminate illicit internet sales, which resulted in the  successful removal of more than 340 websites and more  than 4,300 listings.
This reduces the risk of counterfeit,  diverted, outdated and stolen products from entering   the marketplace.
In 2018, we partnered with local law  enforcement in two Latin American countries to educate,  identify and seize unauthorized and illegal product.
These proactive measures enabled the businesses to  reestablish market presence and improve overall sales.Safeguarding Intellectual Property We are intent on developing a culture that protects our  intellectual property and trade secrets from growing  international threats.
We focus our efforts on three fronts:  •  Educating key employees to raise awareness of  intellectual property protection, and train them in  risk-reduction strategies.
•  Conducting on-site vulnerability analysis/threat  assessments to determine the risk to Abbott’s intellectual  property and create mitigation strategies.
•  Identifying at-risk facilities and operations and conducting  protective technical security countermeasure (TSCM)  sweeps/inspections.
A TSCM sweep/inspection includes  electronic, visual and physical examinations to establish that  an area is free of covert monitoring devices, hazards and/ or weaknesses that could comprise intellectual property.Product Stewardship  Abbott’s product stewardship program is designed to  minimize the impact of our products and their packaging  throughout the product life cycle.
The program tracks and  addresses regulations regarding restricted chemicals that  may impact product quality and safety, and ensures due  diligence regarding conflict minerals.
We identify, track  and document changing regulations and keep all areas   of the company informed about potential business   impacts through biweekly product stewardship business  meetings.
We offer product stewardship training on  conflict minerals, medical device regulation and materials  of interest where chemicals may impact our products.
We also offer training on the use of our global data  composition repository to relevant teams, including those  in R&D, Supply Chain, Procurement and Environment,  Health and Safety.
ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHarmful Chemicals  Responding to regulations on harmful chemicals is a key  element of our product stewardship program.
Our efforts  to deliver more sustainable products include meeting  changing regulations in a way that enables responsible  use, recycling and disposal.
We ensure that all Abbott  products are marketed and sold in compliance with  regulations at a product’s inception and proceeding  throughout the product life cycle.
Conflict Minerals  Abbott has a defined due-diligence structure and process  to understand the use and sources of conflict minerals  such as tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold — known as   3TGs — in our products and across our global supply  chain.
We annually file a Form SD and Conflict Minerals  Report with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  in compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act.
The form, report  and our position statement on conflict minerals can be  found on our website .
We are a member of the Responsible  Minerals Initiative, which works to provide companies  with tools and resources to make sourcing decisions that  improve regulatory compliance and support responsible  sourcing from conflict-affected and high-risk areas.
We use the Responsible Minerals Initiative   standardized Conflict Minerals Reporting Template   to survey our suppliers on this issue.
We also use an  automated conflict minerals analysis tool to assess risk   to our supply chain.
Product Quality Training We require all Abbott employees with responsibility   for product quality to be trained to the latest industry  standards on good manufacturing, laboratory, clinical   and distribution practices.
We offer more than 450   quality courses in multiple languages and an additional   500 computer-based training courses on a broad array of  regulatory and compliance topics.
New Acquisitions By expanding our portfolio of treatment choices through  new acquisitions, we are able to maintain diversity and  innovation in our products.
We have a systematic process  of assessing risk when integrating new acquisitions.
Our  objective is to smoothly transition new products into  alignment with Abbott’s established quality requirements.
Following acquisitions, a cross-functional team assesses,  identifies and prioritizes risks in order to develop  integration action plans.
We focus on ensuring compliance  with country requirements and the Abbott quality system,  and reinforcing the consistent provision of safe, quality  products to our customers.
A critical part of our process is ensuring that new  employees from the acquired company receive quality  training, expand their knowledge and receive development  opportunities.
This helps maintain a quality foundation  throughout the transition.We require all Abbott employees with responsibility  for product quality to be trained to the latest industry  standards on good manufacturing, laboratory,   clinical and distribution practices.
32          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTProduct Quality Indicators  Abbott’s manufacturing footprint is extensive and  complex, with 77 sites across Northern and Latin America,  Europe and Asia-Pacific.
Our manufacturing operations  cross many different jurisdictions, and global regulatory  trends lead us to expect increased oversight from  regulatory agencies.
Our quality management objective   is to continually increase the percentage of site visits   that result in zero observations.PERFORMANCE UPDATES   QUALITY INSPECTIONS AND AUDITS Number of quality/regulatory inspections of Abbott sites by worldwide health authorities Percentage that resulted in zero observations 75% Number of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) inspections of Abbott sites Percentage that resulted in zero observations 78% Average number of observations per FDA inspection 0.Number of internal independent audits to ensure compliance with Abbott quality standards 52 (Global Compliance) FDA WARNING LETTERS ISSUED Total number of letters issued for Abbott 33          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAligning with Global Standards In 2018, we continued our work to ensure that Abbott’s  global quality management system aligns with the  European Union (EU) In Vitro Diagnostics Regulation  (IVDR) and Medical Device Regulation (MDR) published  in 2017 .
Leaders from impacted businesses and functions  are identifying product and process changes required to  meet new regulations during the three-year MDR and  five-year IVDR implementation periods.
We have  launched new product quality training courses to align   our quality management systems with the EU’s IVDR   and MDR regulations.
With growing emphasis on data integrity from global  regulators, we have continued to assess our quality and  critical electronic systems against Good Manufacturing  Practice (GMP) expectations, confirming compliance to  and strengthening our quality processes.
All Abbott  businesses are undertaking a comprehensive assessment  of data integrity compliance for manufacturing process  records and support systems to ensure the continued  safety and conformity of our products.
Training and Certification In 2018, we launched new quality and safety training  courses on procurement for product stewardship and  postmarket surveillance.
Forty-six of our quality and  regulatory professionals achieved certification as Hazard  Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) auditors,  biomedical auditors, quality engineers and regulatory  affairs auditors by the American Society for Quality (ASQ)  and the Regulatory Affairs Professionals Society (RAPS).
ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSHINGO PRIZE Abbott’s nutrition facility in Granada, Spain,   received the prestigious Shingo Prize in 2018.
The Shingo Prize is an internationally  recognized symbol of excellence that denotes  organizations where principles of operational  excellence are deeply embedded in culture,  thinking and behavior.EXTERNAL RECOGNITION  INDIA PHARMA AWARD Our medicines business in India received   the 2018 India Pharma Award for   recognizing quality excellence initiatives   in manufacturing operations.
34          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTData technologies are transforming modern medicine  through the growth of connected medical devices,  products, diagnostics platforms and systems.
Living up   to the trust that our customers place in Abbott requires a  strong focus on cybersecurity.
We take a comprehensive  approach to protecting the devices, products and systems  we offer that connect patients to healthcare professionals  and institutions, ensuring their safety and that of their  data.
We are also committed to evaluating and evolving  our approach on a regular basis.
Cybersecurity Governance and Management Approach We have evolved our approach to cybersecurity  governance to enable greater focus on two equally  important areas for our business: enterprise and product  cybersecurity.
By entrusting cybersecurity governance to  separate organizations for each of these areas, we identify  and mitigate risks to the security and safety of our  products themselves and the security of the data   collected through them.
•  Responsibility for enterprise cybersecurity, including the  security of Abbott data on servers, websites and mobile  devices, sits with our Information Security and Risk  Management (ISRM) organization.
•  Responsibility for product cybersecurity, including  secure design, development and ongoing cybersecurity  surveillance for products in the customer environment,  sits with our Product Cybersecurity organization.Abbott’s Chief Information Officer (CIO) has overall  responsibility for both cybersecurity organizations and   for ensuring a holistic approach to cybersecurity across  Abbott.
The CIO reports directly to Abbott’s Chief  Financial Officer.
Support for the CIO comes from our  Cybersecurity Oversight committee, which is responsible  for developing and implementing our overall cybersecurity  strategy.
The committee includes executives from Public  Affairs, Quality, Finance, Global Security, Legal,  Information Technology (IT) and Human Resources.
Our overall approach to cybersecurity governance is  designed to protect Abbott devices, products and systems  through a focus in four areas: •  Cybersecurity-embedded design, which involves a  cybersecurity review and analysis as new products are  built and systems updated.
•  Constant threat and risk analysis, which is used to  identify new threats and deploy cybersecurity controls.
This is informed by collaboration with external experts  and information-sharing agreements with specialists in  the healthcare and cybersecurity fields.
•  Security testing by both internal and independent  external experts.
This ensures our devices, products and  systems meet or exceed current cybersecurity standards.
•  Partnerships to assess trends, share threat  information and establish standards that protect  patients and maintain trust in the healthcare system.
Abbott’s cybersecurity partners include other   members of the healthcare industry, trade associations,  security experts, academic institutions and the   research community.
Both technology and the threats associated with it will  continue to evolve.
Because of this, we constantly evaluate  and adapt our security measures with the goal of ensuring  our patients receive the highest quality care.
The  Cybersecurity and Quality organizations work closely  together to incorporate cybersecurity considerations  throughout the product life cycle, including design,  development and manufacturing, as well as the integrity  of our quality data systems.
CYBERSECURITYWe take a comprehensive approach to protecting   the devices, products and systems that connect   patients to healthcare professionals and institutions,  ensuring their safety and that of their data.
35          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT36          ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETYWe continue to expand our global ISRM organization  through regional programs to identify and address specific  cybersecurity risks.
We established cybersecurity teams in  Russia and China during 2017 and established a regional  cybersecurity presence in Germany, India, Latin America  and Southeast Asia in 2018.
We require Abbott employees worldwide to complete   our Cybersecurity Awareness and Education training   on an annual basis.
We have also rolled out technical  cybersecurity training targeting medical device software  engineers and other R&D employees with responsibility  for designing and developing our next-generation   medical devices.
External Engagement We work with healthcare partners, such as healthcare  delivery organizations (HDOs) and physicians, to raise  awareness of cybersecurity risks and responsibilities  across the healthcare ecosystem.
We believe that a  system-wide approach is essential for protecting patients  and their data, which is vital if we are to realize the  immense potential benefits of connected healthcare.In November 2018, Abbott partnered with security and  risk management advisors, The Chertoff Group, to   publish a pioneering white paper on securing the   connected healthcare environment.
Our paper was based  on proprietary research among hospital leaders and  physicians, which assessed the current state of readiness  on cybersecurity, identified gaps and suggested priorities  for healthcare stakeholders working in partnership to  address them.
This document called for the industry to  address three critical areas: •  Industry-wide standards and cybersecurity by design   to ensure protections are built into medical device  development and that physicians and patients feel  confident in the security and safety of devices •  Investment in cybersecurity incident response processes  for identifying and responding to vulnerabilities in a  timely manner while supporting safe clinical care •  Improved education, focus and training to increase   all stakeholders’ understanding of cyber risk in the  healthcare settingBesides broader thought leadership initiatives, we   collaborate directly with physicians who care for patients  with implanted devices through our Cyber Security  Medical Advisory Board (CSMAB).
The CSMAB provides  us with valuable direct feedback on how cybersecurity  risks may impact patient care.
We also operate a coordinated disclosure program, which  allows external parties, such as security researchers, to  submit reports of potential vulnerabilities and privacy  issues with Abbott products.
Information on how to  submit a vulnerability can be found on our website .
Following receipt and acknowledgment of a vulnerability  report, Abbott will evaluate and validate the vulnerability,  working with the appropriate product teams for review  and verification.
If the vulnerability is confirmed, Abbott  will evaluate the potential impact and take appropriate  action.
This program aligns with industry standards and  with guidance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration  on postmarket management of cybersecurity in   medical devices.Abbott’s Privacy Policy details our commitment  to our patients with regard to the collection and  use of their data.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENT  Governance  .
Strategy  .
Managing Climate Risks .
Reducing Energy and Emissions .
Protecting Water Resources  .
Reducing Waste  .
Producer Responsibility .
Environmental Investment and Compliance .
58SECTION 37          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENT ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROTECTING A   HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT Abbott is committed to safeguarding a healthy environment for   everyone by reducing the environmental impacts of our business   across our value chain.
This commitment shapes the way we source,   manufacture, design and distribute our products and forms the   basis for our environmental management systems and governance.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAbbott’s environmental governance and management  systems are part of an integrated Environmental, Health  and Safety (EHS) approach.
Our long-term environmental  strategy focuses on reducing and mitigating EHS risks,  delivering cost efficiency, ensuring business continuity,  and addressing our stakeholder’s expectations to be a  responsible and sustainable leader.
This includes reducing  our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water use and   waste impacts.
Our EHS management and governance systems  incorporate environmental focus within our day-to-day  planning and business processes, with clear lines of  accountability and senior-level leadership and support.
The Divisional Vice President, Compliance and  Operational Services, leads our EHS management efforts  and elevates matters when required to the Senior Vice  President, Quality Assurance, Regulatory and Engineering  Services, a senior corporate officer who reports to our  Chairman and CEO.The following groups support implementation of our   EHS programs and initiatives: •  Abbott’s Global Operations Council (GOC) oversees  execution of the strategy for all of our operations  (manufacturing, supply chain, engineering and EHS).
•  The Commercial EHS Executive Council sets priorities  and establishes EHS goals and objectives for our  commercial operations, such as increasing driver safety  and implementing actions that reduce GHG emissions.
•  The EHS Leadership Council establishes EHS programs,  builds awareness, education and expertise, and promotes  our EHS awards.“Our environmental strategy  informs how we operate our   day-to-day business in a manner  that safeguards the environment  and helps improve the efficiency  and sustainability of our business.”    AGNES ORTEGA DIVISIONAL VICE PRESIDENT,  COMPLIANCE AND OPERATION SERVICES ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGOVERNANCE 2018 OVERALL ENVIRONMENTAL   PROJECTS AND SAVINGS ~$1.4 MILLION    ANNUAL SAVINGS77 ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT REDUCTION  PROJECTS 37 SITES ACROSS   10 COUNTRIES $ 39          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTProgress on 2020 Targets As part of our environmental management strategy, we  established targets for reducing GHG emissions, water  use and waste by 2020, compared to 2010 levels and  adjusted for sales.
These targets reflect our longstanding  commitment to reducing environmental impact and  aligning all aspects of our business for continuous  improvement.
Targets include: •  A 40 percent reduction in the carbon dioxide equivalent  (CO2e) emissions associated with Abbott’s business  operations and the electricity we purchase (known as  Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions)  • A 30 percent reduction in Abbott’s total water intake •  A 50 percent reduction in the total waste generated   by Abbott To maintain progress toward our 2020 targets and to  identify continuous improvement measures, each Abbott  business establishes annual environmental goals, reported  against on quarterly scorecards and shared with executive  leadership.
We verify our performance data using   an independent assurance provider, Bureau Veritas.
See page 97 in the Reporting on Sustainability section   for more details on our data verification and   assurance practices .The table below shows our progress toward our   2020 targets.STRATEGY REDUCTION    IN TOTAL    WATER INTAKEREDUCTION    IN CO2e    EMISSIONS 42%† 27% 44% 50%30%40% REDUCTION    IN TOTAL    WASTE2010 BASELINE 2018* 2020 TARGET*2020 ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS PROGRESS *Normalized by sales †Calculated using the market-based method 40          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPolicies and Management Systems We take a systematic approach to continuous improvement  in environmental performance through the EHS   management system.
This is based on Abbott’s published  EHS policy and internal management and technical  standards, including:  •  Environment, Energy and Water policies detailing  environmental commitments  •  Corporate Environmental Guidelines governing our  approach to meeting these commitments •  Supplier Guidelines and Environmental Procurement  Guidelines outlining principles and expectations for  business relationships •  Internal EHS Audit Program to ensure compliance   and continuous improvementTechnical and management experts regularly update  Abbott policies and standards to reflect current and future  environmental practices and regulatory changes as well   as International Organization for Standardization (ISO)  and regulatory requirements.
Our comprehensive EHS audit program ensures that   our sites comply with internal standards and regulatory  requirements, as well as identify potential risks to our  employees and the business.
Audit frequency is determined  by an annual risk-factor evaluation.
After audits are  completed, corrective action plans are developed and  monitored to ensure continuous improvement and  sustainable operations.
Together, our policies and  management practices deliver a consistent approach to  managing, measuring and reducing environmental  impacts across our operations.
Externally established standards guide our actions, and   we pursue external certification where relevant.
•  We consider Leadership in Energy and Environmental   Design (LEED) certification principles when building  new facilities.
•  In cases where external certifications, such as ISO,   will result in value to the business, individual sites or  businesses may pursue these as well.
By the end of 2018, 51 percent of Abbott manufacturing  sites held environment-related ISO certifications.
This included 30 manufacturing sites with ISO 14001   and 18 with ISO 50001 certifications.
Abbott’s ISO  50001-certified manufacturing sites represent 49 percent  of our manufacturing energy use, and our ISO 14001 site  represents 30 percent.
In addition, eight nonmanufacturing  sites achieved ISO 14001, and one achieved ISO 50001  certification.
Similarly, 19 facilities achieved LEED  certification, including one platinum, six gold and   five silver certifications.
Combined, these facilities  represent 1.5 million square feet.
Our efforts to improve environmental efficiency depend  upon engaging employees at all levels of our organization.
To drive progress across our businesses and key functions,  EHS leaders are evaluated against environmental   performance goals as part of their annual performance  appraisals.
Likewise, our annual EHS awards program   is designed to drive greater engagement by recognizing  exceptional performance by sites, teams and individuals.
This includes awards for large and small sites with the  best overall EHS performance for the year, manufacturing  sites achieving high performance through best practices,  and outstanding initiatives.Technical and management experts regularly update  Abbott policies and standards to reflect current and  future environmental practices and regulatory  changes as well as ISO and regulatory requirements.
41          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe also provide training to our EHS employees on  applicable EHS regulations and internal technical  standards through both internal and external trainings  and conferences.
We promote EHS awareness and share  best practices across Abbott through a dedicated month  highlighting EHS topics, as well as a monthly webinar  series featuring subject matter experts and presentations  from sites with high performance on our priority EHS issues.Mergers and Acquisitions Abbott undertakes EHS due diligence on all mergers,  acquisitions and divestitures worldwide.
This due-diligence  procedure ensures consistent and proper identification  and management of our EHS liabilities associated with  such transactions.
Two levels of due diligence are performed, depending on  the nature of the transaction: 1.
For all property transactions, Abbott completes   environmental due diligence to identify and properly  mitigate any environmental issues.
2.
For business acquisitions, we expand our due-diligence  procedure to assess all EHS resources and programs in  place, identify gaps, and estimate effort and cost to align  with Abbott standards.
We also have a process to integrate new business acquisitions  into Abbott EHS management practices to meet our standards.
This includes a robust process for program, resources and  standards training and implementation, with multiple  assessments completed throughout to ensure effectiveness.
42         SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAbbott is committed to identifying and mitigating  climate-related risks that impact our operations, supply  chain and distribution network.
These risks include  potential physical risks, as well as emerging transitional  risks.
Our integrated multidisciplinary company-wide risk  management process assesses and manages climate-related  risks at various levels of our company to ensure that our  businesses and operations are resilient.
Our policies,  standards and programs drive business resilience and are  regularly updated to align with current and future global  requirements.
Abbott’s enterprise risk management (ERM) process  identifies and evaluates the most critical risks to our  business and provides guidance to our Board of Directors  and management team.
We have identified the increasing  global focus and expectations to manage and mitigate  environmental impacts as an enterprise risk for Abbott.
For more information on our ERM approach, go to the  Sustainability Overview section on page 10 .
Abbott’s EHS governance teams and businesses also  monitor emerging climate-related trends and regulations  to analyze their potential impact on Abbott, understand   our risk exposures and develop appropriate management  strategies.
To calculate the financial implications of  potential climate-related risks, Abbott’s EHS and Economics  organizations undertake scenario sensitivity risk-modeling analyses.
Recent analyses have considered COP21 (global  agreements on climate change), potential carbon taxes,  water scarcity and impacts to agricultural supply chains.
Through these processes, we have concluded that Abbott  is not exposed to climate change risks that have potential  to generate a substantive change in business operations,  revenue or expenditure at a corporate level; however,   we have determined that limited climate-related risks  exist at site and regional operation levels and throughout  our supply chain.
Through Abbott’s diverse geographical  distribution, the potential for climate-related acute  physical risks to have a substantive impact on our business  is significantly mitigated.
Our most significant climate-related risks are transition  risks related to emerging GHG emissions management  expectations, including carbon limits and taxes, enhanced  emissions-reporting obligations, costs to transition to  lower emissions technologies, and increased costs of  goods and services.
The physical risks associated with climate change cannot  be prevented, however we are prepared to mitigate the risks  associated with these types of events.
Through the work   of our Business Continuity and Crisis Management, EHS,  Engineering and Supply Chain groups, we identify and  implement measures to ensure our business resilience.
Our dedicated Crisis and Business Continuity organization  addresses acute physical risks, such as unforeseen extreme  weather events and changing precipitation patterns.
Similarly, Abbott’s Engineering and EHS policies and  management standards consider chronic physical risks,  such as water scarcity, and require sites to conduct   regular risk and opportunity evaluations and implement  mitigation strategies.
To address climate-related risks and ensure our business  resilience, Abbott’s Business Continuity and Crisis  Management organization implements measures to ensure  business continuity and minimize the financial impacts   of physical climate-related risks.
Likewise, a core part of  Abbott’s business strategy includes reducing our energy  and carbon footprint in our operations and engaging our  value chain in strategic sourcing categories.
For more  information on management and progress to address our  specific climate-related risks, see Reducing Energy and  Emissions (page 44), Protecting Water Resources (page 48)  and Producer Responsibility (page 57) later in this section.MANAGING CLIMATE RISKS 43          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT44          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTREDUCING ENERGY AND EMISSIONS To achieve a healthier planet and operate as a responsible  corporate citizen, Abbott remains committed to helping  address climate-related issues by reducing energy  consumption and air emissions in our direct operations  and throughout our value chain.
The nature of our  business includes a range of carbon emission sources:  Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) emissions from  manufacturing, warehousing and office activities, and  from our vehicle fleets.
Through our global value chain,  we also indirectly contribute to carbon emissions through  the sourcing and distribution of products, as well as the  ways in which consumers and health professionals use  and dispose of these products and their packaging.
These are known as Scope 3 emissions.
Our comprehensive management program for tracking  and reducing energy and air emissions is outlined in our  Climate Responsible Energy Policy and Internal Energy  Guidelines.
Together, these detail our commitments and  provide guidance on: •  Increasing energy efficiency in our manufacturing  operations • Investing in low-carbon energy  • Improving the efficiency of our transportation fleet  •  Encouraging a lower carbon footprint in our   supply chain  •  Publicly reporting our performanceWe work within international commitments and   frameworks, like the CDP (previously the Carbon  Disclosure Project), the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol  and municipal governments, to measure, track, reduce   and report GHG, volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and  sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions.
In 2018, Abbott received   a B rating for our CDP Climate Change Survey response,  maintaining our score from the previous year.
For more  detailed information on our performance in limiting   GHG emissions , see pages 121-122 of the Reporting on   Sustainability section.
Abbott has established an Energy Council comprised of  business and corporate leaders that initiates strategic  programs, monitors goal performance, supports strategy  development, and aligns resources and initiatives.
This  Council is supported and advised by energy practitioners  in our Energy Community of Practice.
Together, this  network creates and promotes processes and tools to  share knowledge and best practices on the application of  utility and energy technologies and drives implementation  of global initiatives designed to improve energy cost and  carbon performance.
Our carbon emissions management extends beyond our  direct operations and includes measuring and managing  the Scope 3 GHG emissions resulting from the supply,  distribution and consumption of our products.
Abbott’s  Global EHS and Procurement teams work throughout our  value chain to reduce the carbon impacts associated with  the goods and services that we procure.
See page 68 for  more details.
We also are committed to minimizing the impact of   our global fleet of Abbott-owned, Abbott-leased and  personally-owned vehicles used by employees.
As an  example, to reduce our environmental impact we offer  car-sharing programs at sites in Italy, which have reduced  Abbott’s business emissions in the country by an estimated  15 percent, while enabling significant cost savings.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur Carbon Footprint We are committed to reducing our carbon emissions,   and we encourage our suppliers, distributors and   other stakeholders to reduce their own impacts.
Our  carbon footprint shows the breakdown of Scope 1 and  Scope 2 emissions, as well as the details surrounding  Scope 3 emissions.OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Scope 3 emissions related to waste  from operations and downstream  transportation and distribution were  found to be marginal, contributing  to less than one percent of Abbott’s  greenhouse gas emissions.1%  END-OF-LIFE TREATMENT 4%  USE OF SOLD PRODUCTS 2%   EMPLOYEE COMMUTING 2% BUSINESS TRAVEL 8% UPSTREAM TRANSPORTATION  AND DISTRIBUTION   2%   FUEL AND ENERGY   (not Scope 1 or 2) 16%  CAPITAL GOODS 58%  PURCHASED GOODS AND SERVICES4%   SCOPE 13%   SCOPE 93%   SCOPE 45          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTScope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions To reduce our emission impacts, we have a comprehensive  management program which includes purchasing more  renewable electricity, increasing energy efficiency across  our operations, and integrating sustainable engineering  technologies and concepts into our projects.
We verify   all Scope 1 and 2 emissions through a third-party   assurance process.
Our three most significant areas of climate change impact  are electricity use, fuel consumption in manufacturing   and global sales fleet.
Together, these represent more than  90 percent of the Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect)  emissions associated with our direct operations.
For   more details, see pages 104 , 107-109 in the Reporting on  Sustainability section.
Scope 1 and Scope 2 Performance Our 2020 carbon emission reduction target to reduce our  Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 40 percent against 2010 levels,  adjusted for sales, is evidence of our commitment to  address and reduce emissions.
In 2018, we achieved a   42 percent reduction, adjusted for sales since 2010.1In 2018, our greatest carbon reductions were achieved  through the purchase of electricity from utility providers  that include above-average renewable generation in   their energy mix, particularly in Europe.
This resulted   in a savings of 77 ,000 metric tons of CO2e.
We achieved  additional reductions by implementing 34 energy efficiency  and air emissions projects at 23 manufacturing sites.
In  addition, 62 energy assessments have been conducted at  67 percent of Abbott operations in the last three years.
We aim to further reduce Abbott’s GHG emissions by  investing in low-carbon fuels, cogeneration and renewable  energy generation at our facilities.
During 2018, six   of our facilities used cogeneration units, which are  power-generating units that produce electricity and   useful heat.
On-site cogeneration has increased by   86 percent since 2010 and produced more than 65 million  kilowatt-hours of electricity in 2018.
Our on-site   renewable energy generation increased by almost   10 percent in 2018, with 1.3 million kilowatt-hours  generated, primarily through solar power.
For a detailed  review of our energy reductions , see our Scope 1 and  Scope 2 energy consumption on pages 118-124 in the  Reporting on Sustainability section.
In 2018, our greatest carbon reductions were  achieved through the purchase of electricity  from utility providers that include above-average  renewable generation in their energy mix,   particularly in Europe.
2018 ENERGY AND CO2e   PROJECTS AND SAVINGS ~$1.2 MILLION   ANNUAL SAVINGS34 ENERGY   EFFICIENCY AND   AIR EMISSIONS   REDUCTION   PROJECTS7 COUNTRIES   AND 23 SITES 9,616 METRIC TONS   CO2e EMISSIONS REDUCED ANNUALLY41.7 MILLION kWh   ANNUAL ENERGY  SAVINGS $ 46          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT47          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTScope 3 Emissions Scope 3 GHG emissions include 15 categories associated  with the supply, distribution and consumption of our  products, 10 of which apply to Abbott and are calculated  annually using the GHG Protocol.
We verify our Scope 3  emissions related to business travel and operational waste  processing through a third-party assurance process.
Our Scope 3 emissions are an estimated 12 times larger  than our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined.
We actively  work to manage our Scope 3 emissions related to the  end-of-life treatment of waste, business travel, employee  commuting, transportation, distribution and use of our  products and energy purchases.
Scope 3 PerformanceSince 2010, we have reduced the Scope 3 emissions  associated with operational waste processing by almost   60 percent.
This is a result of reducing overall waste   by 26 percent and reducing our waste-to-landfill by   49 percent.
Our suppliers undertake additional activities  to reduce Scope 3 emissions.
In 2018, some of our greatest carbon reduction and energy efficiency projects included: PROJECT LOCATION CO2e SAVED (metric tons) Optimized processes and existing equipment   for maximum efficiencyAbbott Headquarters in Lake County, Illinois 1,Upgraded LED lighting Vascular manufacturing facility in   Clonmel, IrelandImplemented heat recovery and process  efficiencies in boiler systemsNutrition manufacturing facility in Singapore 562ENERGY REDUCTION HIGHLIGHTSABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAccess to water is essential to Abbott’s manufacturing  operations and business continuity and also plays a critical  role in the use of many of our products.
We are committed  to managing our water use in an efficient, responsible  manner, as well as to improving access to clean water for  our customers and the communities where we operate.
Our approach is based on four core principles.
These are  communicated across our business through Abbott’s Water  Policy on Access to Clean Water and our internal Water   Use Guidelines.
•  Reducing the amount of water our business consumes by  working to improve water efficiency across our operations •  Preventing adverse impacts to human health and the  environment resulting from our water use and discharge •  Engaging across our value chain to encourage the latest  water management principles •  Educating employees, suppliers and customers about the  importance of protecting water resourcesIn 2018, Abbott partnered with the World Resources  Institute (WRI) and the Alliance for Water Stewardship  (AWS) to explore the business case for context-based  approaches to water management.
As a result, we have fully  integrated a context-based approach into Abbott’s water  management technical standard, which governs our  operational water management.
The new approach  includes monitoring and measuring our impact on water  resources for the communities where we operate, assessing  water-related business risks at the water basin level across  the value chain, and embedding water-efficient design   as a key element in our management and manufacturing  processes.
By adopting a context-based approach, we are  able to better understand our water impacts across the  value chain at a basin level, as well as to ensure business  continuity and mitigate water-related risks.
In addition to partnering with various water stakeholders,  Abbott has participated in the CDP Water Disclosure  Program since 2010.
This has allowed us to share critical  water performance data while benchmarking our  performance and programming against other companies  in the healthcare sector, as well as with global leaders.
PROTECTING WATER RESOURCES $123,000  ANNUAL SAVINGS15 WATER   EFFICIENCY   PROJECTS7 COUNTRIES   AND 11 SITES2018 WATER PROJECTS AND SAVINGS 5 WATER-   STRESSED SITES  IMPACTED 43.4 MILLION   GALLONS WATER SAVED$ 48          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWater Risk Management To ensure we are aware of water-related risks and   opportunities, we assess our water resilience annually by  evaluating all sites based on local water stress and intensity  of water use.
We use the WRI Aqueduct, a global water  risk-mapping tool, to identify Abbott sites that require a  water management plan for pinpointing the impact of their  water use on the communities where we operate.
Abbott  EHS and Engineering organizations also consider the  potential for water-related risks for any acquisitions and  site-expansion projects.In 2018, we updated our water management standard   to identify three categories of Abbott sites that require  water management plans.
These sites represent significant   water users that consume more than 50 million gallons   of water annually, significant water users that operate in  water-stressed areas and sites that operate in water-stressed  areas but are not significant water users.
In addition to  developing a water management plan, sites in the first two  categories must engage with key stakeholders in their local  catchment basin to identify and address water-related   risks and challenges.
Our annual water-stress mapping and analysis support   our water management strategies and confirm that   Abbott is not exposed to significant chronic physical  water-related risks at a global level.
In 2018, 43 of our   90 manufacturing and research and development (R&D)  sites operated in water-stressed regions.
However, more  than 60 percent of these sites in water-stressed areas are  low-water intensity users with minimal water impacts on  our operations and the local water basins.
49          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT’S WATER RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK STEP 1:  DETERMINE SITE WATER RISK PROFILE (90 MANUFACTURING AND R&D SITES ANALYZED)STEP 2:  IMPLEMENT MITIGATION ACTIONS BASELINE WATER STRESS  USING THE WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE AQUEDUCT TOOLLEVEL OF MITIGATION REQUIRED  BASED ON SITE PROFILEANNUAL WATER USE INTENSITY+ = HIGH ANNUAL WATER USE     LOW ANNUAL WATER USE     MINIMAL  ANNUAL WATER USE    LEVEL • Evaluate local water risks  •  Identify opportunities to mitigate water-related risk • Set and track water targets • Engage local stakeholders LEVEL • Evaluate local water risks  •  Identify opportunities to mitigate water-related risk • Set and track water targets LEVEL • No action required  HIGH/EXTREMELY HIGH   LOW/MEDIUMHIGH ANNUAL WATER USE     MINIMAL TO LOW   ANNUAL WATER USE     50          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT51          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTOur Water Footprint Each year we map our water footprint to understand  where the water that we consume comes from, how it   is discharged and treated, and the impacts that we have   on our local water basins.
In 2017 , we began collecting  water-recycling data, and in 2018, all Abbott sites reported  this data.
We define water recycling as the act of processing used  water and wastewater through another cycle before  discharge to final treatment and discharge to the   environment.
In general, the three types of water   recycling and reuse used in Abbott facilities include: • Wastewater recycled for use in the same process cycle •  Wastewater recycled and reused in a different process,  but within the same facility •  Wastewater reused at another of the   organization’s facilities When reporting water recycling data, we calculate the  volume of recycled or reused water as the volume of water  intake that has been avoided through recycling or reuse.OUR WATER FOOTPRINT OUT INMUNICIPAL  WATER77% WATER FROM   RAW MATERIALS0.5%WATER USED   IN PROCESS20% WATER TREATED   BY MUNICIPALITY66% WATER RETURNED TO   THE ENVIRONMENT14% SURFACE AND  GROUNDWATER22%RAINWATER  COLLECTED   ON SITE0.5% WATER RECYCLING ON SITEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT52          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTWater Reduction Performance Through our 2020 water reduction target to decrease  Abbott’s total water intake by 30 percent by 2020,  compared to 2010 and adjusted for sales, we ensure   the water efficiency of our operations and reduce our  water-related impacts.
Abbott’s total water intake in 2018  was 3,487 million gallons, a 2 percent increase compared  to 2017 .
Since 2010, we have reduced our water intake by  more than 3 percent on an absolute basis and 27 percent  when adjusted for sales.
In 2018, Abbott received a score of B- (management  category) on our CDP water disclosure, down from our  score of A- (leadership category) in the previous year.
This  change in our performance is a result of significant changes  to the 2018 questionnaire and scoring methodology and is  in line with global trends in CDP water disclosure scores.
We are committed to staying on top of emerging best  practices in water management and have implemented   a context-based water management approach to align   with global water leaders and improve our score in the  future.
For detailed information on our water management  performance , see pages 104 , 109-110 in the Reporting on   Sustainability section.
We have achieved reductions in water use by implementing  water-efficient interventions in our operations and  processes, using more water-efficient technologies,  changing our manufacturing and maintenance processes,  and recycling water.
In 2018, we implemented 15 water  efficiency and reduction projects at 11 manufacturing   sites across our global operations (five operating in  water-stressed areas).In 2018, some of our greatest water efficiency projects included: PROJECT LOCATION ANNUAL WATER SAVINGS (millions of gallons) Recycled and recovered water at   water-stressed locationsNutrition manufacturing facilities in  Jiaxing, China, and Jhagadia, India13.Modified landscaping and irrigation water  use practices 5 cardiovascular/neuromodulation  manufacturing facilities in Arizona,  Minnesota and Texas (one of which  operates in a water-stressed location)3.Implemented intake water recycling in the  ion exchange unitMedicines manufacturing facility in  Victoriaville, Canada18.4WATER REDUCTION HIGHLIGHTSABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAbbott is committed to minimizing our waste impacts  throughout the entire life cycle of our products and  packaging.
We recognize two key areas of responsibility   in reducing waste:  •  Our operational waste, which includes the waste that   we directly generate •  Our extended-producer responsibility, which considers  the environmental impacts associated with our products  throughout their complete life cycle, including design,  production, consumption and disposal Abbott strives to find ethical, economical and efficient  ways to reduce the volume and toxicity of waste, to  conserve and maximize the recovery of resources and  ensure proper waste disposal practices.
Likewise,  reducing waste toxicity, as well as the amount of waste  that is classified as hazardous, is a priority for Abbott,   as it prevents harmful environmental impacts and has  direct benefits for human health.
We collect waste  performance data and have technical standards, guidelines  and programs to reduce risk associated with the generation,  handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous  waste across all operations.
Through these efforts, we  improve operating efficiency and reduce our environmental  risks and impacts.REDUCING WASTE  2018 WASTE PROJECTS AND SAVINGS $17,000   ANNUAL SAVINGS9 WASTE EFFICIENCY PROJECTS 5 COUNTRIES   AND 9 SITES 3,722 U.S.   TONS WASTE   ELIMINATED$ 53          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCIRCULAR ECONOMY APPROACH TO WASTE MANAGEMENT Circular Economy Approach In 2018, we updated our internal technical standard for  operational waste management to transition our waste  management strategy from a recycling economy to a  circular economy approach.
This approach is applied   to both our hazardous and non-hazardous waste, with  non-hazardous waste representing the majority of the  waste that Abbott generates.
Our circular economy approach to waste management  employs a variety of waste management strategies aimed   at reducing the overall amount and toxicity of waste  generated, including: •  Preventive maintenance and process design to eliminate  waste generation  •  Process waste reduction through diagnosing and   fixing problems that would otherwise result in   waste generation •  Reducing waste through product design, material input  and purchasing decisions  •  Partnering across other value chains to reuse byproduct  materials as is or in substantially the same form   (otherwise known as beneficial reuse) • Ensuring proper waste material segregation •  Composting, recycling and incinerating with   energy recovery88% of non-product material   we produce is diverted from   landfill and incineration without  energy recovery.
RECYCLE REFURBISH AND   REMANUFACTURE REUSE AND REDISTRIBUTE MAINTENANCE NATURAL   RESOURCESMANUFACTURE TRASH88% 12% 54          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTo incentivize our sites to eliminate waste sent to landfill,  Abbott’s Zero Waste to Landfill program was launched   in 2012.
Besides helping to reduce waste generated, this  program also reduces GHG emissions, saves costs and  helps to engage employees in our environmental initiatives.
Likewise, our supply chain also plays a vital role in  reducing the waste associated with Abbott’s operations.
We work closely with material suppliers to implement  sustainable packaging solutions to eliminate or reuse   as much packaging that comes into our manufacturing  processes as possible.
In the disposal of our waste, our technical standard for  operational waste management establishes a framework  for managing waste in accordance with circular economy  principles and mandates auditing and approval of waste  management vendors to ensure that they employ the most  efficient and responsible disposal techniques.
Similarly, we  also partner with our IT life cycle management suppliers  to ensure that Abbott’s used electronics are properly  handled and refurbished — and if viable, recycled or  disposed of — when necessary.
See the Strengthening Our  Supply Chain section on page 59 for more details.WASTE MANAGEMENT 1%  OTHER 79,U.S. TONS TO   BENEFICIAL USE31%  CORRUGATE AND CARDBOARD 3%  PRODUCTION BYPRODUCT 4%  EGG BYPRODUCT 4%  WOOD 12%  SLUDGE 65%  NUTRITIONAL BYPRODUCT59,U.S. TONS   WASTE GENERATED25%  LANDFILLED 18%  INCINERATED (WITH  ENERGY RECOVERY) 4%  OTHER47%   RECYCLED 4%  INCINERATED (WITHOUT  ENERGY RECOVERY)2%  COMPOSTED10%  CONSTRUCTION   AND DEMOLITION 55          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTOur Waste Footprint Waste management is a priority for our business.
Part of  that focus includes remaining committed to managing our  waste footprint.
The chart on this page shows our waste  footprint in detail, including how waste from our own  operations gets diverted from landfill.
As part of our footprint, Abbott engages in beneficial   use of materials.
Beneficial use is when a material that  otherwise would have been waste is reused as is to   replace a commercial product or commodity.
Abbott’s  beneficial-use activities have grown by 144 percent since  2010 and have exceeded our total waste generated since  2016.
In 2018, our beneficial use activities exceeded  Abbott’s total waste generated by 39 percent.
For additional  details on our waste reduction, see pages 105 , 111-115 in the  Reporting on Sustainability section.
Waste Reduction Performance  Abbott’s 2020 target is to reduce the total waste we  generate by 50 percent, compared to 2010 and adjusted   to sales.
In 2018, we produced 59,324 tons of waste.
This  represented a reduction in total waste of almost 2 percent  compared to 2017 and means we have now reduced our  total annual production of waste by 26 percent on an  absolute basis and by 44 percent when adjusted for sales,  compared to 2010 levels.
Less than 12 percent of Abbott’s total waste is classified   as hazardous.
During 2018, we produced 6,939 tons of  hazardous waste, which represented a reduction of almost  4 percent compared to 2017 .
In addition, we also generated  only 279 tons of electronic waste.
In partnership with our  global electronic waste partners, we recycled 450 tons and  resold 96 tons of electronic equipment, which represents   a combined increase of 104 percent from 2017 activities.
In total, 26 Abbott manufacturing facilities and seven  nonmanufacturing facilities, located across 16 countries,  have now achieved Zero Waste to Landfill status.
This has  contributed to an almost 49 percent reduction in the total  amount of waste that Abbott sends to landfill since 2010.
In total, 26 Abbott manufacturing facilities   and seven nonmanufacturing facilities,   located across 16 countries, have now achieved   Zero Waste to Landfill status.
WASTE REDUCTION HIGHLIGHTS In 2018, some of our waste-efficiency   projects included: •  11,122 U.S. tons of construction and demolition  waste were diverted from landfill and recycled   or beneficially reused as fill material across 20  manufacturing locations in China, Europe and  North America.
•  Seven U.S. tons of hazardous waste and $20,000  saved annually through recycling sharp items   that would previously have been categorized as  hazardous at our cardiovascular neuromodulation  manufacturing facility in Coyol, Costa Rica.
•  11,000 meters of shore and river edge regularly  maintained through partnership with local   stakeholders to adopt a watercourse at eight  nutrition manufacturing facilities in Europe and  Southeast Asia.
56          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENT ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTUnder the principle of extended producer responsibility,  we are committed to minimizing the environmental  impact of our products on the environment and human  health throughout a product’s entire life cycle.
Doing so  enables us to improve operating efficiency, reduce product  and operational costs, and reduce the overall impact of   our products.
This approach considers all components of our business  value chain, including: •  Confirming ethical and sustainable procurement and  production of all Abbott products and operational input,  such as raw materials, processed goods and services  •  Designing, producing and distributing our products with  consideration for their environmental and human health  impact throughout the entire product life cycle  •  Ensuring that our products can be consumed and  disposed of in an environmentally-responsible   manner and are labelled in accordance with   those recommendations To foster these principles, multiple functions across  Abbott work together to incorporate sustainability  considerations into our product research and development  processes.
This includes designing applicable products   for optimal energy consumption and to prolong product  lifespan.
Likewise, our Packaging Council, made up of  Quality, Engineering, EHS and Procurement representatives,  set an aggressive target to reduce the total weight of   our packaging by 10 percent by 2020, compared to our  2010 baseline.
We surpassed our initial goal in 2017 and  continued this trajectory of progress by achieving total  annualized reductions of 14 percent in 2018.
Through   this achievement, we have eliminated approximately   41.3 million pounds of packaging and saved more than  $100 million since 2010.
Engaging and partnering with our suppliers also plays a  vital role in reducing and mitigating the waste and other  environmental impacts associated with Abbott’s extended  value chain.
In addition to our product stewardship  program (see page 31 in the Ensuring Quality and Safety  section for more details), our Supply Chain, R&D, EHS  and Engineering groups also work closely with our  suppliers in a variety of strategic sourcing areas to ensure  that we appropriately identify and mitigate the impacts  associated with the production and consumption of   our products and packaging.
These sourcing categories  include, but are not limited to, energy, transportation and distribution, active pharmaceutical ingredients and  chemicals of environmental concern, packaging, agriculture,  dairy, electronics, and waste management.
For more  information, see the Strengthening Our Supply Chain  section on page 59 .PRODUCER RESPONSIBILITY 2018 – 41.3 CUMULATIVE REDUCTION (MM LB.)  13.95% 2017 – 34.1 CUMULATIVE REDUCTION (MM LB.) 11.52% 2016 – 19.1 CUMULATIVE REDUCTION (MM LB.) 6.46%CUMULATIVE PACKAGING REDUCTION 2020 PACKAGING REDUCTION GOAL10% 57          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT58          SAFEGUARDING OUR ENVIRONMENTAbbott believes that our operations comply in all material  respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning  environmental protection.
Regulations under federal and  state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on  emissions and discharges to the environment from various  manufacturing operations.
Abbott’s capital and operating expenditures for pollution  control in 2018 were not material.
We collect data on  capital and operating expenditures related to environmental  matters from all sites where this spending exceeds  approximately $1 million.
In 2018, these sites reported  operating expenditures for pollution control to be  approximately $23 million and capital expenditures   for pollution control to be approximately $5 million.
Abbott has been identified as one of many potentially  responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations  at several locations in the United States, including Puerto  Rico, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,  Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known   as Superfund.
Abbott is also engaged in remediation at several other  sites, some of which are owned by Abbott, in cooperation  with the Environmental Protection Agency or similar  agencies.
While it is not feasible to predict with certainty  the final costs related to those investigations and   remediation activities, Abbott believes that such costs,  together with other expenditures to maintain compliance  with applicable laws and regulations concerning   environmental protection, should not have a material  adverse effect on Abbott’s financial position, cash flows   or results of operations.ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT AND COMPLIANCE 1.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions were calculated using the World Resources  Council (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP).
To calculate our   Scope 2 emissions, we use the GHGP market-based methodology.
Where  market-based information is not available, location-based results have   been used as proxy.
For full details on our carbon emissions , including  market- and location-based calculations, please see pages 103 , 106-108 in  the Reporting on Sustainability section.
2.
Scope 3 GHG emissions include 15 categories, 10 of which are applicable  to Abbott and quantified using the methodologies outlined in the World  Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)/World  Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value  Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Scope 3 emissions  related to waste from operations and downstream transportation and  distribution were found to be marginal, contributing to less than 1 percent  of Abbott’s Scope 3 GHG emissions.
3.
Beneficial use is when a material that otherwise would have been waste   is reused as is to replace a commercial product or commodity.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSTRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Governance  .
Management Approach .
Performance Updates .
65SECTION 59         STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MAINTAINING RESILIENCY   TO DELIVER PRODUCTS Abbott works with more than 70,000 suppliers in 120 countries.
We depend on a high-quality, sustainable and resilient supply chain  to deliver products that millions of people depend on worldwide.
We seek to build, maintain and strengthen a supply chain that ensures   access to science-based healthcare products in the most efficient,  effective and ethical manner while protecting and elevating Abbott’s  brand and minimizing our shared sustainability impacts.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTLead responsibility for Abbott’s supply chain sits with   our Chief Procurement Officer, who is part of the Global  Operations Council (GOC) and reports directly to the  Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Procurement Officer is  supported by dedicated procurement leaders who  specialize in a number of supplier categories.
Abbott’s Supply Chain Council (SCC) oversees the  development of our global supply chain strategy, meeting  quarterly and reporting regularly to the GOC.
The SCC  consists of senior leaders with responsibility for the  supply chain of each Abbott business.
These leaders  report to the Vice President of Operations for their  respective businesses.
The SCC makes recommendations on the vision and  targets for achieving a sustainable and resilient supply  chain and works to embed a consistent approach to identify  and manage sustainability risks among our suppliers.
In 2018, the SCC benchmarked approaches to supply  chain sustainability across our businesses.
We are  currently updating our approach to embedding  sustainability considerations throughout the process   of selecting and managing supplier relationships.The SCC is supported by several other committees   and teams across Abbott that provide leadership in   key areas relating to the quality and resiliency of our  supply chain.
•  The Supplier Diversity Governance Council is  responsible for developing a more diverse supplier base  and has appointed supplier diversity champions in every  Abbott business and major category of spend.
•  Abbott’s Executive Crisis Management Team (ECMT)   is responsible for managing risks to business continuity  in Abbott’s supply chain.
The ECMT is supported by   our Global Security organization and a network of   32 country-specific crisis action teams.
ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGOVERNANCE “We take pride in building and  maintaining a resilient supply  chain, ensuring that the people  who depend upon on our products  can get them when they need them.”   RIC SCHNEIDER  DIVISIONAL VICE PRESIDENT,  CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61         STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur supply chain management approach emphasizes  partnership in sustainability and innovation.
Working  closely with our suppliers on new solutions supports our  delivery of life-changing technology.
It also promotes   new approaches that help reduce our environmental  impact and multiply the social and economic value we  create.
The SCC has established multiple initiatives to  embed sustainability as a key element of our supplier  partnerships.
These initiatives enable us to manage risks  systematically and to identify opportunities to enhance  the sustainability of our business as a whole.
Supply Chain and Procurement Strategy Our objective for a sustainable supply chain is to ensure  that everything we make and that others make for us   is sourced and produced in an ethical manner while  minimizing our shared sustainability impact.
We are  further updating our process for integrating this objective  into our approach to selecting and managing our  suppliers.
This involves integrating sustainability  alongside the five objectives of our supply chain and  procurement strategy: 1.
Ensure our supply network aligns with, protects and  elevates our brand.
2.
Create shared-value relationships by conducting  business with transparency and trust.
3.
Enhance margins and elevate financial performance   by optimizing total cost, balancing risk with return   and certainty.
4.
Expedite growth and drive innovation through  proprietary and exclusive opportunities.
5.
Design a flexible, dynamic supply network, driving  service with value and quality, without supply risk.We develop supplier contracts that embed standards  aligned with our sustainability objectives and require  suppliers to uphold the principles outlined in our   Supplier Guidelines.
Abbott’s purchasing community spans geographies,  organizations and structures.
It follows the principles of  focus, discipline, creativity and community in seeking to  form innovative and strategic partnerships.
Embedding  sustainability expertise within our supply chain and  procurement functions is a key element of our approach.
Abbott has set a target for 100 percent of our Global  Procurement professionals to be trained in sustainability  and supply chain resilience by 2020.
In 2018, we provided  supply chain resilience training to 95 percent of our  Global Procurement organization.
This builds on our  recent progress and puts Abbott on course to reach   our target by 2020.
Supply chain resilience training   also offered to procurement professionals in three   Abbott businesses.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH 62         STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe work with supply chain organizations, like the  Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity and Innovation   and the Institute for Supply Management, to ensure that  our supply chain strategy aligns with leading standards  and best practices.Guidelines, Standards and Policies Abbott’s Supplier Guidelines define the minimum  standards that our suppliers and their suppliers must  maintain when conducting business with our company.
These include standards concerning ethical behavior and  anticorruption, business integrity and fair competition,  human rights, privacy, labor rights and worker protection,  animal welfare, environmental stewardship, conflict  minerals and health and safety practices.
Our Supplier  Guidelines are published in multiple languages and   are available on our website .
Suppliers are responsible   for confirming their compliance and providing   relevant training.We also use the following guidelines and policies to   embed sustainability considerations into our supply chain  management: •  Our Green Procurement Guidelines incorporate the  principle of environmentally preferable products, which  instructs our sourcing team to seek environmentally  preferable choices, including asking our suppliers to  provide these options.
•  Our Water Guidelines require transparency from our  suppliers about their water management practices and  aim to establish sustainable water management  throughout our supply chain.
•  Our Climate Responsible Energy Guidelines encourage  suppliers to reduce their carbon footprints and improve  energy efficiency.
•  The Abbott Supplier Diversity Policy commits our  organization to equal opportunities for businesses that  are small or are majority-owned and operated by a  member of an under-represented group (e.g., women,  ethnic minorities, veterans, members of the LGBTQ  community or individuals with a disability).
We monitor compliance with these guidelines through our  Supplier Social Responsibility program and contracting  process, and we work with suppliers to improve their  performance, where required.We use supplier classification models to identify  critical suppliers, so that we can form strategic  partnerships with them to help manage risk.
63         STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINSUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE TRAINING 201784% 201670%2020 TRAINING TARGET100% 201895%ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSelecting and Classifying Suppliers When selecting suppliers, we consider environmental,  social and governance factors, in addition to business  capabilities and capacities, financial health and strategic  alignment with Abbott’s vision.
We use supplier   classification models to identify critical suppliers, so we  can form strategic partnerships with them to help manage  risk.
Our Approved Suppliers List categorizes all Abbott  suppliers as either high (critical), medium or low risk.
Our critical suppliers include those supplying materials,  components and services that can influence the safety   and performance of our products, as well as those that are  the only approved source of materials, components and  services.
Our assessment of risk and criticality also takes  into account supply chain transparency and complexity,  supplier certification, proximity to the patient and the  potential for economically motivated adulteration.Monitoring and Evaluating Suppliers We monitor supplier compliance with the basic principles  outlined in our Supplier Guidelines, and we engage with  critical and strategic suppliers that represent our greatest  social sustainability risks and opportunities.
As part of   this process, we annually assess the performance of  suppliers representing a high sustainability risk to ensure  they meet our quality and social requirements.
We have  sustainability engagement programs for the sourcing  categories with the highest levels of sustainability risk,  and we engage with suppliers to help address the issues  we identify.
We use intelligence from our risk management tool to  prioritize which suppliers we survey and audit.
We have  developed specific supplier audit programs for suppliers  of chemicals of environmental concern and active  pharmaceutical ingredients, as well as for waste vendors.Safeguarding Business Continuity Abbott’s Supply Chain Council and Business Continuity  group use a real-time risk intelligence and supplier  mapping tool to track the geopolitical, security,   sustainability, environmental and infrastructure risks   that could affect Abbott’s supply chain.
Through this  system, we have identified more than 100 suppliers at  high risk of losing manufacturing capacity due to natural  disasters, and all Abbott businesses have prepared  contingency plans for such catastrophic events.
We also  use the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Tool™ to  determine which suppliers have the greatest risk of water  supply interruptions.
For more information about our  water risk management, see page 49 in Safeguarding   the Environment.
64         STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINAs part of our approach to managing environmental and  social sustainability risk in our supply chain, the SCC has  developed strategic initiatives for several high-sustainability-  risk sourcing categories: energy, transportation and  distribution, agriculture, chemicals of environmental  concern and active pharmaceutical ingredients, packaging,   dairy and waste management.
Our Global Procurement  and Global Environment, Health and Safety (GEHS) teams  have also engaged in six one-to-one partnerships with  strategic suppliers to identify sustainable supply chain  opportunities.
This includes information and best-practice  sharing for sustainability-related programming and  initiatives, as well as exploring collaborative projects   to improve product sustainability.
Social Responsibility Abbott’s Supplier Social Responsibility (SSR) program  includes surveying and auditing critical suppliers to  confirm adherence to our Supplier Guidelines.
During  2018, we asked 255 of our critical suppliers to respond   to our SSR survey, which received a response rate of   66 percent.
This survey showed that 76 percent of suppliers  that responded have environment, health and safety and  sustainability programs; 78 percent have code of conduct  and ethics policies; 97 percent have not had any violations  with respect to ethics compliance, human rights, labor  practices and health and safety; 88 percent have business continuity plans in place; and 57 percent have  strategies to work with diverse suppliers.
We also conducted site audits at 30 suppliers that we  identified as being high risk for sustainability issues.
These audits utilized Workplace Conditions Assessment  standards.
In 65 percent of cases, the audits were acceptable,  with minor observations.
We worked with the remaining  suppliers to address the needs that the audits identified.
In cases of major and zero-tolerance findings, we required  our suppliers to implement corrective and preventive  action plans, which had to be submitted in documented  form within 30 days of the audit results being received by  the supplier.
In total, we have audited 8 percent of our  Tier 1 suppliers over the past three years.
PERFORMANCE UPDATES ABBOTT’S KEY SUPPLY CHAIN   INITIATIVES IN 2018 INCLUDED: LAUNCHING A FORMAL PROCESS    for assessing supplier risk and compliance with   our Social Responsibility Guidelines by surveying  suppliers on social and environmental   sustainability issues ENSURING A DIVERSE SUPPLY CHAIN    that secures inclusion of diverse suppliers to   drive economic growth in North America AUDITING HIGH-SUSTAINABILITY-   RISK SUPPLIERS    for social and environmental sustainability issues  (including priority areas, such as labor, human  rights, environment and anticorruption) CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT    in which suppliers can leverage best   practices and shared experiences  65         STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSupplier Diversity Abbott’s Supplier Diversity Program is designed to   ensure opportunities are available to groups traditionally  under-represented in business.
In 2018, we worked with  5,690 small and diverse suppliers.
The $1.4 billion we  spent with these suppliers represented a 8.5 percent  increase over the previous year’s amount and adds up to  20 percent of our total spend in North America.
During  2018, Abbott also successfully implemented a Supplier  Diversity Tier 2 program to grow the diversity of our  supplier base.
This involves partnering with key and  strategic suppliers to ensure they contract their own  business with small and diverse suppliers.
In 2019, our  target is to increase spend with diverse suppliers in the  U.S. by 10 percent compared to the previous year.
Abbott takes an active role within the Diverse  Manufacturing Supply Chain Alliance (DMSCA), which  aims to support small and minority-owned manufacturing  suppliers that bring diverse and innovative solutions into  the supply chain.
Our Chief Procurement Officer leads   the DMSCA’s Strategic Sourcing Executive Leadership  Committee and Corporate Mentoring Program, and we  remain committed to growing DMSCA through active  leadership in its corporate governance.External recognition for Abbott’s Supplier Diversity  Program includes being listed as a 2018 Top 30 Champion  of Diversity by DiversityPlus magazine and being named   as a top supplier diversity program by Hispanic Network  and Professional Woman’s Magazine, and a U .S.
Veterans  Best of the Best.Agriculture Agriculture is another strategic sourcing category where  we have identified an opportunity to significantly impact  the sustainability of our supply chain.
Abbott’s Food and  Safety Council (including representatives from supply  chain, regulatory and research and development) meets  on a quarterly basis to address concerns related to our  agriculture supply chain, including sustainability issues.
In addition, Abbott does not use palm oil in our products  and ensures that all palm-affiliated products (such as   palm nuts) are responsibly and ethically sourced.
Abbott is also a leader in food safety and sustainability  through an internal surveillance program that tests above  industry requirements.
66         STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN2019 – TARGET: INCREASE SPEND BY 10% COMPARED TO 2018 – $1.4 BILLION SPENT 2017 – $1.29 BILLION SPENTAMOUNT SPENT ON DIVERSE SUPPLIERS 2016 – $1.04 BILLION SPENTIn 2018, DiversityPlus magazine listed Abbott’s Supplier  Diversity Program as a Top 30 Champion of Diversity.
Hispanic Network, Professional Woman’s Magazine    and U.S. Veterans also named us as a top-rated supplier  diversity program.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAnimal Welfare in Dairy Abbott is committed to improving the health and welfare  of the dairy animals that produce ingredients for our  products around the world.
At Abbott, we believe proper  animal health and welfare enrich the lives of dairy cows  and have social and economic benefits for dairy farmers.
As endorsed by the World Organization for Animal  Health, Abbott fully supports the Five Freedoms of animal  welfare.
In 2018, our nutrition business consulted with  our global dairy suppliers to continuously improve the  animal health and welfare programs they develop.
In 2018, Abbott partnered with World Animal Protection  and our local dairy suppliers to implement an animal  welfare training program in India.
The goal of this  program is to promote animal health and welfare  outcomes, including better access to water, proper  housing, animal nutrition and proper veterinary care.Chemicals of Concern In 2017 , Abbott’s medicines business established   an engagement program for suppliers of chemicals   of environmental concern, including active  pharmaceutical ingredients.
The program aims   to minimize our environmental risk exposure and   ensure business continuity.
Through the program, we identify suppliers that handle  chemicals with a high environmental concern if released  into the environment, and we audit suppliers that we  determine to be critical to the business or that have  negative media exposure or notices of violation.
In 2018,  we evaluated more than 300 suppliers from China,  Europe, India and Latin America.
We surveyed 77 suppliers and conducted 42 EHS on-site  audits.
This was a significant increase from 2017 , when   the program surveyed 60 suppliers and conducted 36 EHS   on-site audits.
Carbon Emissions In 2018, carbon emissions resulting from the supply,  distribution and use of our products made up 93 percent  of Abbott’s carbon footprint.
ABBOTT’S CARBON FOOTPRINT Abbott’s Scope 3 emissions make up 93 percent of our  carbon footprint.
These emissions are associated with   the sourcing and distribution of our products, as well   as the consumption and disposal of our products.
4% SCOPE 1: DIRECT OPERATION   CARBON EMISSIONS 3% SCOPE 2: INDIRECT OPERATION  CARBON EMISSIONS 93% SCOPE 3: VALUE CHAIN   CARBON EMISSIONSAbbott is a leader in food safety   and sustainability through an internal   surveillance program that tests above   the industry requirements.
67         STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe assess supply chain-related carbon emissions and  engage our suppliers in reducing emissions through the  CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project)  Supply Chain Program.
In 2018, we surveyed 223 suppliers  on environmental practices and performance, achieving   a 76 percent response rate, an increase of 14 percent over  the previous year.
This survey showed that 74 percent   of suppliers were subject to climate-related risks   (a 15 percent increase over last year); 58 percent had  active carbon reduction targets; 79 percent are integrating  climate issues into their long-term business objectives;  and 51 percent are engaging with their suppliers on  climate change.
In addition, it is estimated that the  surveyed suppliers reduced their carbon emissions by   5.8 million metric tons in 2017 , resulting in $56 million   in annual savings.Renewable Energy Our Global EHS and Procurement teams work together to  purchase electricity from utility providers that include  above-average renewable generation in their energy mix.
We estimate that Abbott sites that purchase energy  exclusively from renewable sources saved approximately  77 ,000 metric tons of CO2e in 2018.
For more details of our  renewable energy supply initiatives , see the Safeguarding  Our Environment section on page 46 .
Operations in Water-Stressed Areas Our mapping of critical suppliers using the World  Resources Institute Aqueduct™ Tool identified that   23 percent of our critical suppliers currently operate in  areas of high and extremely high baseline water stress.
This approach allows our businesses to engage with  strategic suppliers operating in water-stressed areas to  ensure business continuity.Transportation and Fuel Efficiency Abbott has identified upstream and downstream   transportation as the sourcing category with the greatest  opportunity to reduce carbon emissions in our supply  chain.
In 2018, we increased our use of rail transportation,  which is twice as efficient as truckload shipping.
We also  continued to enforce our increased supplier fuel-efficiency  standard, which was implemented in 2017 , and we partnered  with the U.S. Postal Service to reduce small-parcel  deliveries during the last mile of transport.
Beginning in August 2018, Abbott’s U.S. businesses joined  the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency SmartWay®  program, which helps companies advance supply chain  sustainability by measuring, benchmarking and improving  freight transportation efficiency.
Through this program,  Abbott reduced the carbon emissions associated with our  transportation supply chain.
In addition, in 2018, our  nutrition business, which uses 4.3 million gallons of   diesel fuel, reduced its reported fuel consumption by  433,710 gallons.
68         STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPackaging Partnering with suppliers to find alternative and more  sustainable packaging materials is a key tenet of our  strategy to reduce packaging waste throughout Abbott’s  value chain.
This includes increasing the sustainability   of fiber-based packaging, reducing our use of plastic and  implementing reusable packaging and packaging take-back  initiatives.
Supplier partnerships have played a key role   in surpassing our target of reducing packaging weight by   10 percent by 2020, compared to 2010 levels.
Details of  our next-generation sustainable packaging target can be  found in the Safeguarding Our Environment section on  page 57 .Waste Management We work with our waste vendors to ensure they employ  the most efficient and responsible disposal techniques in  the management of our waste.
To ensure that we are only  using appropriately qualified and responsible vendors,   we conduct on-site evaluations and reviews of all waste  management firms every five years, at a minimum, through  Abbott’s Waste Vendor Assessment program.
In 2018, 41   of our waste vendors were assessed through this program.
We also partner with our IT life-cycle management  suppliers to ensure that Abbott’s used electronics are  properly handled and disposed.
Our electronic equipment  reuse and recycling program recycled 450 U.S. tons and  resold 96 U.S. tons of electronic equipment in 2018.
This is an increase of 104 percent from 2017 activities.2018 – 41.3 CUMULATIVE REDUCTION (MM LB.)  13.95% 2017– 34.1  CUMULATIVE REDUCTION (MM LB.) 11.52% 2016 – 19.1 CUMULATIVE REDUCTION (MM LB.) 6.46%CUMULATIVE PACKAGING REDUCTIONS 2020 PACKAGING REDUCTION GOAL10% 69         STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAINABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VALUING OUR PEOPLE Governance .
Our Workplace Environment .
Talent Management Approach .
Compensation and Benefits .
Diversity and Inclusion .
Listening to Our Employees .
Employee Well-Being .
Employee Health, Safety and Wellness .
83SECTION ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 70          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DEVELOPING   TALENTED PEOPLE The sustainability of Abbott’s business depends on attracting,   engaging and developing talented people who share our vision   and values.
That’s why we offer innovative programs, benefits   and resources that address the diverse needs of our employees,   reward their efforts, help them build their best careers at Abbott   and provide solid financial security.
We take a collaborative approach, listening to our employees to   understand their needs and working with them to build a workplace  environment that meets those needs.
Our success depends on keeping  employees and their loved ones safe, healthy and well; making sure  that all feel valued; and building a talent pipeline that allows us to  deliver life-changing technology for years to come.
ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTResponsibility for Abbott’s talent management sits with  our Executive Vice President, Human Resources, a  corporate officer who reports directly to our Chairman  and CEO.
Senior leaders specializing in various   human resource specialties report to the Executive   Vice President.Our commitment to diversity and inclusion begins at the  top.
Abbott’s Chairman and CEO leads our Executive  Inclusion Council, which monitors the hiring and  advancement of women and minorities in U.S. management  positions.
The council also works to promote an inclusive  work environment for people with disabilities at all of   our businesses and locations.GOVERNANCE “Our company innovates and   improves the programs and   benefits we offer our employees  as much as we innovate to meet  the needs of the people who rely   on our products.
To keep pace,   we keep listening and evolving   our offerings.”   STEPHEN FUSSELL  EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT,  HUMAN RESOURCES 72          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCore Workplace Components  Abbott has approximately 103,000 employees1 serving  people in 160 countries.
Our promise to each of these  employees is to provide a workplace environment that: • Promotes diversity and inclusion •  Offers extensive professional development, mentoring  and training programs •  Encourages and supports work-life harmony •  Offers competitive compensation and benefits tailored   to each market • Protects human rights • Offers wellness programs • Commits to employee health and safetyProtecting Human Rights Abbott believes in the dignity of every human being   and respects individual rights, as set forth in the United  Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our   mission and core values reflect these principles, and   they are reinforced through our employment, ethics and  procurement policies, which also apply to suppliers.
We believe that governments have the primary   responsibility for respecting, protecting and promoting  the human rights of their citizens.
However, Abbott  recognizes that companies play a supporting role in  promoting human rights within their spheres of influence.
We contribute to the fulfillment of human rights through  compliance with laws and regulations wherever we  operate, as well as through our policies and programs.
Our global guidelines include: • Providing a healthy and safe working environment •  Complying with child labor laws and laws prohibiting  any form of forced, bonded or indentured labor or  involuntary prison labor •  Promoting workforce diversity and not discriminating  against any employee for reasons such as race, religion,  color, age, gender, ethnicity, disability, marital status and  sexual orientation, in addition to any other status  protected by local law •  Not tolerating harassment or harsh or inhumane  treatment in the workplace • Protecting individual privacy •  Providing compensation and benefits that are competitive  and comply with applicable laws for minimum wages,  overtime hours and mandated benefits •  Encouraging open communication between management  and employeesOUR WORKPLACE ENVIRONMENTAbbott believes in the dignity of every human  and respects individual rights.
Read our complete   position statement on human rights here.
73          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT74         VALUING OUR PEOPLEOur approach to talent management   incorporates skill assessments, performance  appraisals and career pathing.
TALENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH Succession Planning Abbott’s Board of Directors and senior management teams  place a strong emphasis on our succession planning  processes, as well as our focus on talent development,   and diversity and inclusion efforts.
The board conducts   an annual Talent Management Review (TMR) to assess  critical positions, identify succession plans and create  development plans.
Most recently, this resulted in the  re-establishment of the Chief Operating Officer role for the  continued development of one of our long-time leaders,  Robert Ford.
The process cascades to the senior leadership team and  throughout the company.
The senior leadership team  holds divisional, functional and regional TMRs, and each  carries goals to identify “Ready Now” and “Ready Future”  successors.
These same discussions happen at all levels   of the company, where people managers carry talent  development goals each year.
Career Development Our approach to talent management incorporates skill  assessments, performance appraisals and career pathing.
We have established an integrated global talent management  process, so we can identify talented people from across  our organization, assess them accurately and help them  develop skills consistently.
All employees participate in our annual performance  management process and work with their managers to  create talent profiles and development plans that support  their particular career objectives.
To help employees meet  their objectives, develop their skills and build their best  careers, we provide both job-specific training and broader  leadership training and development opportunities.
Mentoring plays a key role in development for Abbott  employees.
We operate a formal mentoring program for  employees of all levels, which matches mentors and  protégés for 12-month partnerships to help employees  develop skills, share knowledge of Abbott and broaden  their networks.
In 2018, we saw a 59 percent increase in  the number of employees who signed up to be mentors  and protégés.
Due to the global scope of our business, many of our  employees work or travel outside of their home countries.
The ability to engage people across different cultures   is both a key need for our business and an important  development opportunity.
Abbott’s Cultural Navigator™  internet-based toolkit is free for employees and is  designed to increase their understanding of different  countries and cultures, providing guidance on business  practices and social etiquette for more than 100 countries.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTRecruitment Abbott takes an integrated approach to building a diverse  talent pipeline that can meet the needs of our businesses.
This involves building a compelling employer brand, both  through our own digital properties and through other  channels; partnering with academic institutions and  associations that align with our needs; and providing  opportunities for talented college students to develop  their careers at Abbott.
The academic partners and institutions that help Abbott  identify talent include: •  Association of Latino Professionals in Finance and  Accounting (ALPFA) • Black Engineer of the Year Award (BEYA) • IMT Ghaziabad and NITIE in India • Nanyang Technological University in Singapore • National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) • National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) • Reaching Out MBA (ROMBA) • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) • Society of Women Engineers (SWE)  •  Zhejiang University and Shanghai Jiao Tong University  in ChinaOur internship program helps Abbott identify and recruit  talent at an early career stage, giving students hands-on  experience working with Abbott employees on real-life  business projects.
We have set a goal of converting at least  50 percent of interns into full-time Abbott employees.
We also use targeted social media platforms, such as  LinkedIn®, along with the career section of our own  website, to build our employer brand and reach talented  people who want to help others live fully with our   life-changing technology.
75          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENHANCED CURRICULUM In 2018, we enhanced our curriculum of development  programs to improve the business relevance of the  offerings, improve employee satisfaction with the  programs and increase enrollment.
Notable achievements  include the following: Performance Update  Employee Development Performance and career progression data show that,   when compared to Abbott benchmarks for their peer  groups, participants in our key talent programs   outperform their peers, are more frequently promoted   and are identified as successors more often.
In 2018, we launched Career Connect, a new career and  development planning tool available to all employees.
Career Connect’s personalized tools help employees  identify what is important to them in their careers, guide  them on how to have better career conversations with  managers and create clear development plans for   achieving their career goals.
In 2019, we plan to launch  additional resources that connect employees with people  in the roles they want to explore and provide voluntary  on-the-job learning opportunities that build their skills  and prepare them for future roles or assignments.
7,500+Abbott employees participated in  our leadership and development  programs in 2018 (a 45 percent  increase compared to 2017).
185entry-level employees worldwide  joined Abbott through our  Professional Development  Program, which gives new talent  the opportunity to rotate through  roles in IT, Finance and Operations  in different Abbott businesses   and locations.
32high-performing and carefully  selected young professionals  participated in the Global Citizen  Development Program, which  helps employees build their career  networks and prepare for greater  responsibilities in our increasingly  global company.292employees from 17 cohorts in   the Americas, Asia and Europe  completed our Emerging Leader  Program, which accelerates the  development of high-potential  people in frontline roles.
29new general managers in   13 countries graduated from our  Global Leadership Program.
31newly hired or newly promoted  executives attended our Executive  Compass Program, a three-day  in-person course focused on  successfully transitioning to a new  leadership role.
Compass is taught  by our senior-most leaders and  respected thought leaders from  prominent academic institutions.
Each year, 30–35 newly hired or  newly promoted executives attend  Compass.
Over the last five years,  144 leaders have attended   the course.
76          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTalent Pipeline In 2018, we launched a new Abbott career site that uses  artificial intelligence to tailor content and recommend  opportunities for job seekers.
Our site is designed to  simplify the job search at Abbott and create positive  experiences throughout the hiring process.
The site   has led to a 67 percent increase in internal hires and   a 92 percent increase in user satisfaction.
We also made several important updates to our internship  program, including revisions based on feedback from  interns themselves.
These included rolling out our mobile  app for interns, which was launched in the United States  in 2017 and is now available across Latin America, India,  Ireland and Singapore.
The app helps interns navigate life  at Abbott, and it has generated positive feedback, with  participants telling us that it helps with the onboarding  process and enables them to stay connected to other  interns.
Engagement is high across all markets and has  reached 100 percent in the United States, with interns  publishing 888 posts that generated 22,000 clicks and  3,100 comments.Each of our U.S. interns is now paired with a mentor   who has a similar discipline of study and background   and can to help the intern navigate Abbott’s organization,  understand the company vision and prepare for a career  with our company.
In 2018, our science, technology, engineering and math  (STEM) high school internship program, which promotes  STEM careers through hands-on experience and   real-world projects, included 66 percent females and   58 percent minorities.
This positively contributed to   our objective of a more diverse talent pipeline.STEM INTERNSHIP PROGRAM 66% FEMALES58% MINORITIES 77          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT78          VALUING OUR PEOPLECOMPENSATION AND BENEFITS  Our compensation policy has a vital role to play in attracting  the best and brightest minds to work at Abbott — and in  building an environment of equal opportunity for all.
We apply the following principles to help achieve  consistent, fair compensation packages that reward  performance: •  Base salaries and benefit packages are competitive in the  markets where we compete for employees, and benefit  packages are appropriate to each market.
•  Annual and long-term incentive packages are linked  directly to business and individual performance,   with a balance of short- and long-term financial and   strategic objectives.
•  Compensation elements encourage behavior that is  consistent with the ethical values in Abbott’s Code of  Business Conduct.The fundamental principle of compensation at Abbott   is that it should be driven by employees’ performance   and expertise.
We have procedures and processes to  ensure consistency in compensation across similar roles   in relevant markets.
As a result, Abbott believes that   policies are in place so our employees receive comparable  compensation, regardless of race or gender.
Abbott has  procedures that encourage frequent manager and  employee dialogue around performance and compensation,  and we make a range of channels available for employees  to raise any concerns in this area.One component of our total compensation philosophy is  to enable employees to build an ownership stake in the  company.
Several programs facilitate ownership: •  Abbott’s global long-term incentive program grants  restricted stock units (RSUs) to employees, generally  beginning at the manager level.
Over time, when the  awards vest, they are paid out in shares of Abbott  common stock (except in countries that require payment  in cash).
In 2018, Abbott granted RSUs to more than  11,000 employees in 70 countries.
•  In the United States, employees can invest in Abbott  stock through our 401(k) program, which provides a   5 percent match to an employee’s 2 percent contribution  to the program.
•  Outside the United States, most countries offer employees  the opportunity to purchase stock at a discount through  the Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP).
The ESPP   is open to all employees, except corporate officers, in the  countries where it is offered.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEmployee eligibility for nonsalary benefits follows local  regulations and practices.
In most countries, this means  we cover all full-time employees and part-time employees  working more than a certain number of hours.
Outside of  the United States, we provide benefit programs that are  above and beyond government requirements.
Our global  Human Resources (HR) teams work to identify the  particular needs of employees in different countries, so   we can deliver innovative solutions that make a tangible  difference and strengthen our value proposition for  employees on a local basis.
In 2018, Abbott launched an innovative solution in the  United States that addresses the significant problem of  student loan debt.
The Freedom 2 Save program helps  employees with student loans save for retirement while  they make their loan payments.
Under this program,  employees who put at least 2 percent of their eligible pay  toward their student loan debt can receive a 5 percent  contribution from Abbott into their 401(k) accounts,  without any 401(k) contributions of their own.
This means  that the participating employees do not sacrifice saving   for their future while paying off their debt.
EXAMPLES OF HOW WE TAILOR OUR OFFERINGS TO MEET LOCAL NEEDS In INDIA , we offer a higher education  course developed with the nation’s  leading business school, the Indian  Institute of Management Calcutta.
In the UNITED STATES , employees who qualify for the company’s 401(k) and who are also contributing 2 percent of their  eligible pay toward student loans can receive the equivalent of the company’s traditional 5 percent “match” deposited into their  401(k) plans, without any 401(k) contribution of their own, through our new Freedom 2 Save program.
In CHINA , INDIA  and MEXICO , employees  use a points-based system to select flexible  benefits to suit their needs and life stages.
79          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Our employee networks play a vital role in building an  inclusive culture across all Abbott operations.
They help  expand visibility and opportunity for their more than  7 ,000 members from minority and other potentially  disadvantaged groups.
An Abbott corporate officer serves  as an executive sponsor for each of these networks, helping  to align their objectives with Abbott’s business strategies.
We operate the following employee networks: • Advancing Professionals Network (APN) • Asian Leadership and Cultural Network (ALCN) • Black Business Network (BBN) • Flex Network (part-time and flexible schedules) • LA VOICE Network (Hispanic/Latino) • PRIDE (LGBTQ) • Veterans Network • Women Leaders of Abbott (WLA) • Women in STEM  We work to build increasing inclusivity for all, regardless  of race, gender, age, sexual orientation, disability or  nationality, across Abbott.
Ensuring an inclusive   environment for people with disabilities requires raising  awareness of issues among both managers and employees.
Abbott works with local partners to provide training   on the experiences of employees with disabilities and   to help avoid unconscious bias in our hiring process.
Performance Updates In Brazil, where more than 150 employees have participated  in disability awareness training, Abbott has hired   64 people with disabilities since 2014, including 30 in  2018.
In France, where approximately 100 of our employees  attended disability workshops in 2018, we have almost  doubled the number of people with disabilities employed  by Abbott, from five in 2013 to nine at the end of 2018.
Abbott’s Diversity and Inclusion team, with support   from our employee networks, has taken an active role in  tackling unconscious bias.
In 2018, we hosted an event  attended by more than 700 employees, which explored  Abbott’s commitment to inclusion and leadership  development, as well as the reality of unconscious bias.
During the event, several of our executives and board  members were joined by a renowned social psychologist  to facilitate discussions on how Abbott can become a more  inclusive environment surrounded by diverse and  innovative ideas.
We have integrated unconscious bias training into our  core leadership training modules and delivered this  training to more than 2,000 employees in 2018.
We have  also integrated relevant elements of the training into our  Interview for Success recruiting app for managers.
Abbott’s commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion  is consistently recognized by external organizations: •  Working Mother magazine included Abbott on its 2018  list of the best companies for the 18th consecutive year.
•  DiversityInc magazine named Abbott one of its top 50  companies for diversity in the United States for the 16th  consecutive year.
•  The U.S. National Association for Female Executives  (NAFE) recognized Abbott as a top company for  executive women for the 10th consecutive year.
•  Abbott achieved a 95 percent rating on the Human Rights  Campaign’s 2018 Corporate Equality Index, showing  that our business values LGBTQ workplace inclusion.
80          VALUING OUR PEOPLEGLOBAL WORKPLACE DIVERSITYMANAGEMENT POSITIONS FILLED BY WOMEN  40% MANAGEMENT POSITIONS FILLED BY MINORITIES  34% FEMALE SHARE OF TOTAL WORKFORCE43%WORKPLACE DIVERSITY IN THE U.S.FEMALE SHARE OF WORKPLACE46% TOTAL MANAGEMENT POSITIONS FILLED BY WOMEN38%ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAbbott conducts regular surveys to gather employee  feedback about working at Abbott to understand our  employees’ level of engagement with our business  strategy.
This is an opportunity to learn where we can  make meaningful improvements.
These surveys include  Division Culture surveys and our annual Employee   Living Fully survey.
In 2018, this survey was sent to more   than 64,000 employees and received 8,893 responses (a   14 percent response rate).
Through our organization-wide  Ease of Working with HR survey, we gathered feedback  from 10,330 employees (an 11 percent response rate).
Besides surveys, Abbott relies on a variety of formal and  informal channels to gather feedback from our employees.
These include an annual all-employee meeting with our  Chairman and CEO, where a significant portion of the  meeting is dedicated to addressing employee questions  and comments.
Lunch-and-learn meetings also are  conducted with senior leaders as a way to listen and  respond to employee comments and concerns.
The 7 ,000  employees involved in our employee networks identify  and address common interests through various forums.
Through the networks, employees participate in events  and activities, where they share feedback and provide  recommendations on various programs and development  opportunities.
For more information on how we engage  employees , see the Sustainability Overview section on   page 14 .Abbott takes a holistic approach to employee well-being.
We offer programs that support work-life harmony   and promote good health; many of these programs are  available to employee family members, as well.
We pay particularly close attention to the mental health   of our employees through an integrated approach that  includes addressing the causes of stress, both within and  outside the workplace.
Our company-funded Employee  Assistance Program (EAP) provides free expert mental  health support for employees and their families through  one-on-one support, seminars, online courses, crisis  intervention services and workplace emergency response.
The EAP earns high marks from employees for effectiveness,  with 77 percent of participants reporting improved  productivity, 71 percent reporting a reduction in stress   and 73 percent saying they were less likely to lose work  time due to personal reasons.
Our LiveLifeWell integrated wellness program, available  in the United States, caters to the mental, financial and  physical health of employees and their spouses through  assessments and the LiveLifeWell app.
This app helps  users track progress toward well-being goals, such as  nutrition, exercise and sleep.
The LiveLifeWell app also  provides access to counseling, caregiver support, employee  assistance and courses on financial fitness, mindful   living and stress management.
Approximately 56 percent  of employees and eligible spouses participated in  LiveLifeWell assessments in 2018.
Our most popular and long-standing physical wellness  program is Exercise Across Abbott, which encourages our  employees to team up with colleagues and compete for  prizes by tracking how many minutes they exercise each  day.
Around 15 percent of Abbott employees across 64  countries take part each year.
In 2018, 75 percent of teams  consistently increased their weekly exercise for four weeks.LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING 81          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe recognize that flexible working is often an essential  enabler of employee well-being.
Abbott offers flexible  work schedules across 60 countries, including flex time,  summer hours, part-time arrangements, job sharing,  compressed workweeks and telecommuting.
Abbott’s  Freedom to Work program, available to U.S. employees,  offers those considering retirement the option to scale  back their hours and change their responsibility without  affecting their benefits.
More than 1,400 employees have  enrolled in Freedom to Work since the program launched  in 2015.Our comprehensive childcare programs include on-site  childcare, parenting and counseling services, as well as  nationwide childcare discounts and backup care resources.
Additionally, we offer maternity and paternity leave for  new parents, as well as Milk Stork breast milk delivery  services for business-traveling mothers.
Since 2015,  Abbott has also provided financial support for adoption   of up to $20,000 per child.
82          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGovernance Abbott takes an integrated approach to managing our  environmental impacts and the health and safety of our  employees through our Environment, Health and Safety  (EHS) management system.
We manage these three areas  through our corporate EHS function, which handles  governance, management and technical standards.
Our list  of global EHS standards can be found on our website .
For full details of our EHS governance structure , see the  Safeguarding Our Environment section on page 39 .
Management Approach Our long-term EHS strategy focuses on reducing and  mitigating EHS risks, delivering cost efficiency, ensuring  business continuity and addressing the expectations of   our stakeholders to be a responsible and sustainable  leader in the healthcare sector.
This includes focusing on  the health, safety and well-being of our workforce.
We maintain global policies and standards for managing  employee health, safety and productivity that are regularly  updated by technical and management experts with  consideration for global requirements and regulatory  changes.
We focus on improving performance, ensuring  compliance, reducing risk and embedding a culture of  safety into our operations.
We regularly evaluate all Abbott commercial operations,  manufacturing, and research and development (R&D)  sites through internal compliance assurance audits that  assess performance in the following categories: • Health and safety policy and program • Strategic planning • Risk assessment/self-assessment • Business integration • Training and awareness • Communication and information • Performance measures • Health and safety technical standards Our efforts to embed our health and safety culture depend  on engaging employees at all levels of our organization.
We provide training to our EHS employees on applicable  EHS regulations and internal technical standards,  encourage them to gain external certifications, and  support attendance at external training and conferences.
We promote EHS awareness and share best practices  across Abbott with EHS month, as well as a monthly  webinar series featuring subject-matter experts and  presentations from business sites that have reached high  performance in our priority EHS areas of focus.
We  support a global behavior-based safety observation  program to encourage employees to take ownership   of a positive safety culture.Abbott’s EHS Scorecard, which is distributed to our senior  leadership every month, is a key management tool for  tracking employee health and safety performance.
The  scorecard data is communicated across our organization  to drive action.
Our metrics align with our EHS 2020  targets, including the number of significant EHS incidents,  such as lost-time case rate, recordable case rate and  accidents per million miles (APMM) driven.
In addition,  we monitor on-time completion of corrective actions.
Our global health scorecard also tracks implementation   of our occupational health well-being initiatives through   a dynamic scoring system, increasing the requirements   for each site annually.
The results of this analysis are  communicated to site and division leadership annually.
EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLNESS 83          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTProgress on 2020 Targets We have set 2020 targets for health and safety performance  and identified two priority safety goals to drive continuous  improvement in reducing the number of incidents: 1.
Reducing the number of incidents that result in time   off work  2.
Reducing the number of vehicle accidents involving   our employees  We have set the target for reducing our lost-time case rate  to 0.15 per 100 workers, including employees and contractors,  by 2020 and reducing our APMM driven rate to 4.0 in the  same time frame.
The lost-time case rate includes any work-related injuries  requiring days away from work.
In 2018, our lost-time case  rate remained the same as in the previous year.
Throughout  2018, we focused on building safety programs for our  newly acquired medical device business.
Maintaining  safety rates throughout the acquisition and integration  process displays our commitment to keeping workers safe  on the job.
In the year ahead, we will continue to integrate  our recently acquired rapid diagnostics business to ensure  its safety programs develop and mature.
We aim to drive continuous reductions in APMM through  our global safe-driving program, which raises awareness  of safe-driving habits among field-based employees.
In 2018, our cardiac arrhythmias and neuromodulation  businesses completed behind-the-wheel training for   4,000 sales and service employees as part of their fleet  safety orientation.
We also introduced new vehicle safety  features in our U.S. fleet with the target of rolling them   out to all Abbott’s commercial vehicles in the United  States by 2021.
These features include adaptive cruise  control, automatic braking, reverse cameras, collision,   lane departure and blind spot warnings.
Through this  initiative, we have seen a 15.5 percent reduction in vehicle  accident rates in these vehicles.
In India, where Abbott has thousands of field sales  representatives, our vehicle safety program emphasizes  motorcycle safety, in particular the need to wear a helmet.
Abbott distributes new helmets to all sales representatives  and any other employees who are motorcycle riders.
As a  result of Abbott’s safe-driving program, our global APMM  for 2018 was 4.1, a reduction of 16 percent compared to  2017 , which puts us on track for our 2020 target of 4.0.2020 – LOST-TIME RATE CASE GOAL: 0.2018 – 0.2017 – 0.23LOST-TIME CASE RATEEMPLOYEE AND CONTRACTOR 2016 – 0.2015 – 0.2020 – ACCIDENTS PER MILLION MILES GOAL: 4.2018 – 4.2017 – 4.9ACCIDENTS PER MILLION MILES EMPLOYEE 2016 – 5.2015 – 4.84          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPerformance Updates We monitor employee injuries globally (both lost-time  cases and recordable cases) and report rates to executive  management on a monthly basis as part of our EHS Scorecard.
Analysis of our 2017 and 2018 health and safety data  identified our major mechanisms of injury as vehicle-related,  slips/trips/falls, contact with object and ergonomic-related  injuries.
In 2018, Abbott built targeted programming and  awareness campaigns to reduce these injuries, resulting   in a 50 percent reduction in ergonomic-related lost-time  injuries from 2017 to 2018.
The recordable case rate includes any work-related injuries  resulting in death, days away from work, restricted work or  transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid,  loss of consciousness, or significant illness or injury diagnosed  by a licensed healthcare professional.
Abbott’s recordable  case rate increased from 0.36 to 0.40 from 2016 to 2017 ,  however remained flat in 2018.
The increase from 2016 to 2017 is attributed to the  inclusion of Abbott’s recently acquired cardiovascular and  neuromodulation medical device business’ injury data  beginning in 2017 .
As we implement Abbott EHS programs  and standards across the businesses we have acquired,   we expect Abbott’s overall injury rate to trend downward  once again.There are 120 Abbott occupational health professionals  around the world who oversee our employees’ health and  well-being.
These professionals conduct regular screenings  and health education programs that focus on stress  management, first aid, body mass index and weight  reduction.
During 2018, this team carried out more than  34,000 medical surveillance exams and 132,000 health  education engagements (a 32 percent increase) and  trained 5,400 employees in first aid and CPR.
We also monitor the impact of our health and wellness  programs through our occupational illness frequency rate,  which measures reported cases of illness resulting from  work, including minor cases that require first aid only.
Our occupational health and safety program identifies   and eliminates occupational risks, with the aim of  reducing the occupational illness frequency rate.
This has  remained at 0.2 illnesses reported per million working  hours since 2015.
In addition, 87 percent of our R&D and  manufacturing sites met their global health scorecard  targets for employee wellness initiatives during 2018.In 2017 , we launched a pilot program at our nutrition site  in Fairfield, California, in which we partnered with a local  health provider to offer emergency telemedicine support  during off-shift hours.
In 2018, we expanded this program  from a pilot to a full launch on site.
This has reduced  emergency room visits, as well as employee travel and  waiting time.
In 2019, we are evaluating expansion of our   telemedicine support program to other business sites.SAFE-DRIVING PROGRAM 16% REDUCTION IN ACCIDENTS   PER MILLION MILES   FROM 2017 TO ERGONOMICS 50% REDUCTION IN ERGONOMIC-RELATED   INJURIES FROM 2017 TO 85          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMaintaining a Well Workplace Abbott strives to ensure we operate a well workplace, one  that is not only safe and healthy but also fosters well-being  and ensures all employees feel welcome, happy and engaged.
Our standards and initiatives include: •  Offering employees an ergonomic program that   incorporates metric tracking of injuries and assessments  of workplace ergonomics by trained on-site   EHS professionals.
•   Promoting active-pause programs to encourage stretching  during the workday, along with targeted initiatives to  increase flexibility and core strength.
•  Providing suitable illumination, with EHS professionals  available at all manufacturing sites to measure that  lighting meets our global engineering standards.
•  Providing collaborative work spaces with natural light  and comfortable furniture.
•  Regularly monitoring noise to ensure exposures are  below local regulatory limits or the threshold limit  values set by the American Conference of Governmental  Industrial Hygienists, where no local limits exist.
•  Completing preventive maintenance of air filtration  systems, which is validated through our internal  auditing process, to ensure air quality.
Our Green  Building Strategic Initiative includes indoor air quality  management as a best practice.•  Maintaining global engineering standards for   humidification and dehumidification.
•  Maintaining indoor workplace temperatures within  industry standards set by the American Society of  Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers  (ASHRAE).
•  Providing sites with additional guidance developed   by occupational health professionals during outdoor  temperature extremes.
1.
Including Alere employees 2.
Percentages as of December 31, 2018.
Percentages represent count of U.S.  employees, excluding rapid diagnostics business.
Management positions  are defined as grades 17–49.
3.
Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees, assuming the  average employee works 40 hours per week and 50 weeks per year.
This is equivalent to 200,000 hours worked.
86          VALUING OUR PEOPLEABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ADDRESSING SOCIAL ISSUES Our Approach to Shared Impact  .
Increasing Access to Healthcare  .
Engaging with Employees and Communities .
93SECTION ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 87        ADDRESSING SOCIAL ISSUESABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MAKING A  POSITIVE IMPACT As a healthcare leader, we have an inherently positive social impact   on helping people to live longer and better.
We apply our unique strengths to identify and invest in life-changing  innovations, design new business models to meet emerging healthcare  needs and find measurable ways to address social challenges   through our scientific and technical expertise.
When we   prioritize systems thinking and collaboration, we can grow   our business, improve lives and create value in communities   around the world.
ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTShared impact is an integral part of Abbott’s strategy for  delivering health solutions in emerging and developing  economies.
Our approach is based on innovation: new  products to meet local healthcare needs, new business  models that create value for communities and new  systems that can deliver healthcare to those who need   it most.
Through this work, we tie the growth of our  business to meeting social needs.
Bringing Healthcare Closer to Home in Rural Africa According to World Bank data, 60 percent of people in  sub-Saharan Africa live in rural areas where access to  healthcare is limited.
These limits on the accessibility of  healthcare constrain the potential of people and society.
In Rwanda, Abbott has identified an opportunity to create  shared impact by supporting the Ministry of Health’s  program to close the rural healthcare gap.The Rwandan government has a bold vision to deliver  quality primary care and testing within a 30-minute walk  of every Rwandan home.
Through an innovative health  post model, Abbott is working in partnership with the  Ministry of Health and Society for Family Health Rwanda  to help build a connected health network and make it  financially sustainable.
By equipping the posts with rapid  diagnostics, supporting nurses with testing and business  training and demonstrating the impact of the network   on patients’ lives, we can help establish a model for  primary care in rural areas that could be scaled across  Africa and beyond.
“Our approach to making a positive  social impact starts with a question:  how can we apply our unique  technologies, expertise and business  mindset to solve challenges in new  ways?
And then we listen and  collaborate closely with the people  we serve to build a better and  lasting response, together.”   JENNA DAUGHERTY  DIVISIONAL VICE PRESIDENT,  GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP AND SUSTAINABILITY ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOUR APPROACH TO SHARED IMPACT 89          ADDRESSING SOCIAL ISSUESABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEmpowering Dairy Farmers Through a Sustainable  Local Supply Chain India is the world’s largest producer of milk, and more  than 70 million families in rural India depend on dairy  farming as a source of income.
However, dairy farmers are  often marginalized, lacking the technology and methods  to produce higher quality milk for a better price, and with  limited knowledge of the organized dairy sector.
As a  result, middlemen often take a significant portion of their  earnings.
Additionally, within dairy farming communities,  women are often excluded from decision making despite  playing a significant role in dairying work.
In 2014, Abbott opened a new state-of-the-art  manufacturing facility for nutrition products in Jhagadia,  Gujarat, India.
When we encountered difficulties sourcing  high-quality milk to meet our strict quality standards,   we identified an opportunity to build a sustainable,   local supply chain that could empower dairy farming  communities while meeting the long-term needs of   our business.
We partnered with Technoserve, an international  nonprofit that pursues business-led solutions to poverty,  to design a local supply chain.
Working with local dairy  company Prabhat, we invested in farm management and  finance training for 1,500 dairy farmers, including training  specifically for women farmers who represent half of all  dairy farmers in the program.
We worked closely with the  farmers to overcome risks such as drought and fungal  contamination and provide better care for cows.
We also  connected rural communities to reliable cold-storage   and transportation.
Our goal has been to create an innovative model for  modernizing the dairy industry in rural communities   that is both sustainable and scalable.
Throughout the first  pilot demonstration, we measured and analyzed outcomes  and impacts to prove the value of this model.
In the first  year, farmers were able to nearly double the amount of  milk production compared to nonparticipating farmers,  and the quality of milk was higher.
Based on this success,  Prabhat is now committed to expanding the model to   200 additional villages in the region over three years,  giving more smallholder farmers access to skills,  infrastructure and a trusted and transparent market.
Our goal has been to create an innovative model for  modernizing the dairy industry in rural communities  that is both sustainable and scalable.
The success of our local supply   chain shared impact program led   to Abbott being named to Fortune  magazine’s 2018 Change the World list,  which recognizes companies that are  delivering an important social or   environmental impact through their   core business strategy and operations.FORTUNE’S  CHANGE THE   WORLD LIST 90          ADDRESSING SOCIAL ISSUESABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAbbott partners with local governments, nongovernmental  organizations and other key stakeholders to develop  innovative solutions for increasing the accessibility   of healthcare.
We use our expertise to help develop   new models for healthcare systems and make   targeted investments in infrastructure that have   a measurable impact.
Helping People with Diabetes Cut Costs   Abbott’s FreeStyle® Libre system, which enables continuous  glucose monitoring through a sensor painlessly applied   on the skin of the back of the upper arm, reduces the   cost of diabetes for healthcare systems by improving  glucose control and reducing the incidence of long-term   complications1,2 from one of the world’s leading   noncommunicable diseases (NCDs).
Abbott is working with governments around the world   to qualify the FreeStyle Libre system for government  reimbursement, helping to realize its potential for  increasing the affordability of diabetes care.
The system   is now available in more than 46 countries and is partially  or fully reimbursed in 33 of them, with 1.5 million people  using the system worldwide.3 Additionally, by doing away  with the need for single-use test strips,4 FreeStyle Libre   users can save more than $120 a month,5 significantly  reducing the cost of managing diabetes for the individual.Elevating Healthcare Infrastructure in Tanzania For almost 20 years, Abbott and the Abbott Fund   have worked with the government of Tanzania in a  groundbreaking public-private partnership to elevate   the country’s healthcare system.
Our investments of  more than $130 million, combined with more than  70 Abbott employees volunteering as mentors to   support training, have delivered measurable impact   in three key areas: •  Establishing emergency medicine as a new medical  specialty in Tanzania through the Emergency Medicine  Department (EMD) at Muhimbili National Hospital and  two regional emergency rooms in Mbeya and Mt. Meru.
The department at Muhimbili National Hospital now  provides emergency care to an estimated 60,000 people  per year, and has reduced the mortality rate at the  hospital by 50 percent while training more than   300 physicians, nurses and students through its   residency program.
•  Providing world-class diagnostics services through  a network of 23 regional laboratories, centered on  Muhimbili National’s Central Pathology Laboratory  (CPL).
These 23 regional labs support more than  120 district laboratories, provide accurate and timely  diagnosis and improve healthcare for millions of   people across the country.•  Supporting the financial sustainability of the healthcare  infrastructure through a cost-center model at Muhimbili  National’s EMD, which recovers costs through those  patients with health insurance or the ability to pay.
This  important initiative has helped the department generate  a surplus of more than $14 million, which supports the  hospital’s commitment to providing critical care,  regardless of ability to pay.
In 2018, our partnership received the U.S. Chamber of  Commerce Foundation’s Citizenship award for Best  Health and Wellness Program, in recognition of its success  establishing emergency medicine facilities in Tanzania.INCREASING ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE 91          ADDRESSING SOCIAL ISSUESABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEliminating Malaria in India In 2018, Abbott launched a new public-private partnership  to support the Indian government’s ambitious goal to  eliminate malaria in the country by 2030, focusing our  efforts on the Indian state hardest hit by the disease.
India accounts for 58 percent of incidents of malaria in  Southeast Asia, and has the most cases of the disease  outside of Africa.
The state of Odisha accounts for   40 percent of these cases, giving it a pivotal role in the  push.
Impressive progress has already been made, with  malaria cases in Odisha dropping 80 percent in less than   a year.
However, building on this momentum requires a  significant improvement in the accuracy of data.
Odisha  needs rapid, reliable diagnostics to help eliminate malaria  even when no obvious symptoms are present, helping   prevent future transmission.
More robust diagnostics can  also cut the risk of resistance to malaria treatments  growing through misdiagnosis and overuse of drugs.Through our partnership with the global advocacy  organization Malaria No More, Abbott is supplying   1 million antigen-based SD BIOLINE Malaria Ag P .f/P .v  rapid diagnostic tests for detection of malaria parasites in  human whole blood.
The tests are simple and portable,  and they provide quick and reliable results without  needing access to a laboratory – an important first step   in saving lives and advancing treatment and prevention  efforts.
Alongside the tests themselves, we are working   to develop diagnostics training to support reliable data  collection, as well as investing in other areas of Malaria   No More’s work in the state.
Extending the Battle Against HIV to the Remotest Areas The Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS) has set three targets for 2020 to help accelerate  the global response to the HIV epidemic:6  •  90 percent of people living with HIV will   know their status.
•  90 percent of people with diagnosed HIV will   receive sustained antiretroviral therapy (ART).
•  90 percent of people receiving ART will have  successfully suppressed the virus.These 90-90-90 targets depend on the availability of  effective testing in remote regions where the battle against  HIV is often most challenging.
Testing is required not just  to identify those infected with HIV , but also to monitor  how patients are responding to treatment.
Abbott rose   to the challenge by developing the first tests for HIV   using dried blood spot (DBS) samples, which are collected  on special paper that can be easily transported.
These   tests bring HIV diagnosis and treatment within the reach  of communities even when they lack dedicated labs,  sophisticated equipment and highly trained personnel.
The tests are simple and portable, and they   provide quick and reliable results without needing   access to a laboratory.
92          ADDRESSING SOCIAL ISSUESABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAbbott’s commitment to supporting communities is  demonstrated through our employees’ passion for giving  back.
Our direct investment in communities takes the  form of cash and in-kind donations, as well as employee  time.
The value of our community investment exceeded  $62 million in 2018.
Employee Donations and Matched Giving Abbott employees give generously of their time, expertise  and resources, supporting numerous community-based  initiatives worldwide.
Our annual Employee Giving  Campaign gives our employees an opportunity to donate.
In 2018, 84 percent of Abbott employees donated to more  than 5,600 nonprofit organizations.
In the United States  the Abbott Fund Matching Grant Program matches our  employees’ contributions to qualifying causes on a  dollar-for-dollar basis.
When these matching donations  were included, the Employee Giving Campaign pledged a  total of $6.58 million, the highest dollar amount raised in  the history of our campaign.
Throughout the year, Abbott employees are also able   to donate to the thousands of organizations listed on   our online employee giving portal.
Abbott pays all fees  associated with processing these donations, so that   every cent our employees give goes to the charity of their  choice.
During 2018, our employees contributed a total   of $7 .99 million to nonprofit organizations including   the Abbott match.
Employee Volunteering In 2018, Abbott employees contributed a combined 29,921  volunteer hours supporting causes in China, Costa Rica,  Germany, India, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Russia, the  United States and Vietnam, among other countries.
Inspiring young people to explore careers in science,  technology, engineering and math (STEM) is a focus of  employee volunteering at Abbott.
During 2018, more than  500 of our people volunteered more than 2,900 hours to  our Operation Discovery and Family Science programs,  providing 3,705 students, children and parents with an  experience of learning from our best-in-class scientists.
Since 2006, 6,505 Abbott scientists, engineers and other  employees have shared their expertise to support  programs that advance STEM education around the  world.
The Abbott Fund has supported these efforts with  donations of more than $56 million during this time.2018 SOCIAL INVESTING Cash contributions $  39,169,Time, employee volunteering    1,660,In-kind giving, product or service donations    13,357,Management oversight      8,311,Total $62,497,334ENGAGING WITH EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITIES  UNITS OF BLOOD   DONATED   BY EMPLOYEES IN SUPPORTED 2,PEOPLE IN NEED 93          ADDRESSING SOCIAL ISSUESABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT94          ADDRESSING SOCIAL ISSUESStrengthening Communities at Risk from Hurricanes Since 2005, Abbott and our partners Feeding America and  Direct Relief have been working to prepare communities  for hurricane season, positioning crucial supply packages  in at-risk areas.
Over the last 12 years, these packages have  supplied desperately needed nutrition and healthcare to  more than 620,000 people.
In 2018, Abbott employee volunteers worked closely with  Feeding America to prepare 4,000 disaster relief packs  with Abbott nutrition products for adults and children.
We store these packs at regional food banks ready for  deployment in the hours following a hurricane, targeting  heavily impacted regions like Florida, Louisiana, Puerto  Rico and Texas.
Abbott products within the packs include  Similac® infant formula, PediaSure®, Pedialyte®,   ZonePerfect®, nutrition bars and Ensure®.
Abbott’s partnership with Direct Relief provides community  health clinics with rehydration and nutrition products  that can be distributed as part of medical care following   a disaster.
First pioneered by Abbott, this initiative now  includes contributions from many other healthcare  companies, providing 62 clinics in the southern United  States, Puerto Rico and the Caribbean with the supplies  required to treat 100 patients for three to five days.Providing Relief When Natural Disasters Strike Besides working to prepare communities, Abbott aims   to respond rapidly when natural disasters or other  emergencies strike.
In 2018, Abbott and the Abbott Fund  donated more than $1.1 million in funding and healthcare  and nutritional products to address both immediate needs  and longer-term recovery efforts following devastating  events.
These included the wildfires in California,  hurricanes throughout the United States, the powerful  earthquake and tsunami in Indonesia and catastrophic  flooding in the Kerala region of India, where we worked  with CARE India and Americares India to deliver  medicines, vitamins, mosquito nets and water treatment  kits to those affected.
Over the past decade, our rapid  response to earthquakes, typhoons and flooding  worldwide has involved providing nearly $50 million   in funding and medical supplies.EXTERNAL RECOGNITION DOW JONES   SUSTAINABILITY INDEX We were named the global Industry Leader   in the Health Care Equipment and Supplies   for six consecutive years (2013–2018)   for our strong environmental, social and   economic performance.BEST CORPORATE   CITIZENS Corporate Responsibility magazine named us   among the top 100 companies for   10 consecutive years (2009–2018)   and the healthcare sector leader in 2017.FORTUNE’S   MOST ADMIRED COMPANIES We were ranked No. 1 for Social Responsibility   in our industry sector on   Fortune’s Most Admired Companies list   for five consecutive years (2014–2018).
1.
Hellmund R.
Cost calculation and adherence to ADA recommendations  based on a flash continuous glucose monitoring system for people   with T1DM or T2DM using MDI therapy [Abstract].
Diabetes.
2018;67  (Suppl 1): 69-LB.
https://doi.org/10.2337/db18-69-LB .
2.
Hellmund R, Weitgasser R, Blissett D.
Cost calculation for a flash glucose  monitoring system for UK adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus receiving  intensive insulin treatment.
Diabetes Res Clin Pract.
2018.
https://ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29410149 .
3.
Data on file: Abbott Diabetes Care 4.
Fingersticks are required for treatment decisions when you see Check  Blood Glucose symbol, when symptoms do not match system readings,  when you suspect readings may be inaccurate or when you experience  symptoms that may be due to high or low blood glucose.
5.
Hellmund R.
Cost Calculation and Adherence to ADA Recommendations  based on a Flash Continuous Glucose Monitoring System.
Presented at   the American Diabetes Association 78th Scientific Sessions.
https://plan.
core-apps.com/tristar_ada18/abstract/5188446740e191fd289345d56a78cdc8  6.
90-90-90: Treatment for all.
UNAIDS.
http://www.unaids.org/en/ resources/909090ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITY Key Metrics – Financial .
Key Metrics – Social .
Key Metrics – Environmental .
Metrics References .
124SECTION ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 95          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORTING ON  SUSTAINABILITY Abbott’s sustainability reporting seeks to address the interests of a   range of stakeholders.
These include investors, customers, suppliers,  employees and government and regulatory bodies, as well as communities,  nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and opinion leaders.
We   align our approach with the requirements of leading environmental,  social and governance (ESG) ratings and sustainability indices, and seek  feedback from our stakeholders in order to drive continuous improvement.ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEvolving Our Approach  We have been reporting on aspects of our sustainability  activities since the early 1970s, when our first reports  focused on our environmental impacts.
Our approach   to reporting has always evolved along with our business  and the environment in which we operate.
This year, we  published the report with two distinct but complementary  sections.
The Sustainability Overview outlines how  sustainability integrates with Abbott’s business as a   whole.
The accompanying in-depth Performance Report  analyzes our performance against sustainability key  performance indicators (KPIs), along with important  context on our governance and management approach   to key sustainability issues.
Additional sustainability reports and performance  updates, including country reports for key markets, can be  found on the Sustainability Reporting page on our website.Scope of This Report • All financial information is stated in U.S. dollars.
•  All data in this report reflects Abbott’s activities, with   a focus on 2018 results.
•  The data included in this report does not include our  rapid diagnostics business (formerly known as Alere)  unless otherwise indicated.
We plan to include complete  data on our rapid diagnostics business in the 2019 Global  Sustainability Report.
•  Neither this report nor our website contains performance  information about our joint ventures, unless   otherwise noted.
•  Select information and data calculations from prior  years have been adjusted to reflect the company’s  separation from AbbVie in January 2013.
•  The Abbott Fund is an Illinois not-for-profit philanthropic  corporation established by Abbott in 1951.
•  Our 2019 Global Sustainability Report will be published  in the second quarter of 2020.Reporting Feedback  We draw upon many external sources of expertise to  develop and execute our sustainability strategy.
These  external experts also guide our engagements with key  stakeholders, the development of our Responsibility  website and the production of this sustainability report.
We gratefully acknowledge the counsel we receive   from Corporate Citizenship, SustainAbility, the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the World Business  Council for Sustainable Development, among others.
Our engagement with these groups better informs our  approach to reporting.
It also keeps us abreast of stakeholder  expectations and helps us identify areas of opportunity   for strengthening stakeholder engagement.
We also refer  to external standards on reporting, such as the GRI G4  Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards.
We welcome feedback on our report.
Please send us an  email at responsibility@abbott.com to share yours.
97          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTransparency on Policies Our policies always seek to meet or exceed the national  and international standards in the countries where we  operate.
The following critical policies can be found on  our website: • Code of Business Conduct • Supplier Guidelines • Position Statement on Conflict Minerals • Environment Policy • Energy Policy • Water Policy • Environmental Procurement Guidelines • Global Environment, Health and Safety Standards • Environmental and Safety Assurance Statement •  Anti-Corruption Training Guide for Companies Doing  Business with Abbott • Clinical Trial Registration and Results Disclosures •  Financial Reports for Healthcare-Related Organizations • Stakeholder Engagement Policy • Position Statement on Tax • Commitment to Cybersecurity • Position Statement on Human Rights •  Global Infant Formula Marketing Policy • Global Animal Welfare PolicyExternal Assurance Abbott engaged an independent assurance provider,  Bureau Veritas, to conduct assurance of selected 2018  environmental and safety data.
The Environmental Policy  page on our website includes a PDF of the Bureau Veritas  Assurance Statement.
98          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTKEY METRICS – FINANCIAL R&D INVESTMENT  DOLLARS IN MILLIONS TOTAL 2018                                                                            $2,2017 $2,2016 $1,2015 $1,405SPEND ON DIRECT SUPPLIERS  DOLLARS IN BILLIONS TOTAL 2018                                                                            $8.2017 $8.2016 $8.2015 $8.99          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYSALES WORLDWIDE   DOLLARS IN MILLIONS TOTAL 2018                                                                            $30,2017 $27,2016 $20,2015 $20,405DIVIDENDS PAID   DOLLARS IN MILLIONS TOTAL 2018                                                                            $1,2017 $1,2016 $1,2015 $1,443ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTKEY METRICS – SOCIAL SOCIAL INVESTING  DOLLARS IN MILLIONS TOTAL 2018                                                                            $62.2017 $65.2016 $36.2015 $37.0U.S. EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN RESULTS  DOLLARS IN MILLIONS TOTAL 2018                                                                            $6.2017 $5.2016 $5.2015 $4.100          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITY*  Percentages as of December 31, 2018.
Percentages represent count of U.S. employees, excluding rapid diagnostics business.
Management positions are defined as grades 17–49.
† Including Alere employeesEMPLOYEES TOTAL% of Women   in Management (U.S.)*% of Minorities   in Management (U.S.)* 2018                                                                            103,000†40% 34% 2017 99,000 43% 30% 2016 94,000 47% 31% 2015 74,000 46% 29%ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT* Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees, assuming   the average employee works 40 hours per week and 50 weeks per year.
This is equivalent to 200,000 hours worked.
†Change from 2017 to 2018LOST-TIME CASE RATE  CASES PER 100 WORKERS* TOTAL    Employee and ContractorTOTAL   EmployeeTOTAL   Contractor 2020 GOAL                                                                                         0.2018                                                                                               0† 0.23 0.25 0.2017 0.23 0.25 0.2016 0.19 0.21 0.2015 0.24 0.25 0.08OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS FREQUENCY RATE  ILLNESSES PER MILLION HOURS (EMPLOYEE AND CONTRACTOR) 2018                                                                            0.2017 0.2016 0.2015 0.2KEY METRICS – SOCIAL 101          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTRECORDABLE INJURY OR ILLNESS INCIDENT RATE  INCIDENTS PER 100 WORKERS* 2018                                                                            0.2017 0.2016 0.2015 0.GLOBAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE  ACCIDENTS PER MILLION MILES DRIVEN (EMPLOYEE ONLY) 2020 GOAL 4.2018                                                                            4.2017 4.2016 5.2015 4.* Annual incident rates are calculated per 100 employees, assuming the  average employee works 40 hours per week and 50 weeks per year.
This is equivalent to 200,000 hours worked.KEY METRICS – SOCIAL 102          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTKEY METRICS – ENVIRONMENTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS  – ABSOLUTE   1,000 METRIC TONS TOTAL    (Scope 1 and Scope 2)   Market-Based CO2e Emissions(a),(b)TOTAL    (Scope 1 and Scope 2)   Location-Based CO2e EmissionsPurchased Fuels   (Scope 1)  CO2e Emissions(c)Refrigerant   (Scope 1)  CO2e Emissions(d)Total Direct   (Scope 1)  CO2e EmissionsPurchased Energy   (Scope 2)   Market-Based  CO2e Emissions(a),(b)Purchased Energy   (Scope 2)   Location-Based  CO2e Emissions(e) 2018                                                                                      -4.3%† 955 1,032 516 9 525 429 2017 997 1,031 516 10 526 472 2016 1,091 1,061 502 14 516 574 2015 1,114 1,078 496 11 507 607 2010*                                                                               1,237 1,237 560 9 569 668 SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS – NORMALIZED BY SALES   METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES TOTAL    (Scope 1 and Scope 2)   Market-Based CO2e Emissions(a),(b)TOTAL    (Scope 1 and Scope 2)   Location-Based CO2e EmissionsTotal Direct   (Scope 1) CO2e Emissions(c)Purchased Energy   (Scope 2)   Market-Based   CO2e Emissions(a),(b)Purchased Energy   (Scope 2)   Location-Based  CO2e Emissions(e)  2020 GOAL                                                                                     -40%‡2018                                                                                     -9.9%† 33 36 18 15 2017 37 38 20 18 2016 42 41 20 22 2015 45 43 20 24 2010*                                                                               57 57 26 31 *Baseline year †% change from 2017 to ‡% change from 2010 (goal) 103          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWATER INTAKE  BILLION GALLONS TOTALTotal   Water-Stressed  Locations(f) 2018                                                                                               1.9%† 3.49 1.61  2017 3.42 1.2016 3.56 1.2015 3.45 1.2010* 3.61 1.WATER INTAKE  – NORMALIZED BY SALES GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES TOTALTotal   Water-Stressed  Locations(f) 2020 GOAL                                                                                             -30%‡2018                                                                                             -4.1%†                                                                          122 56  2017 128 2016 139 2015 139 2010* 167 *Baseline year †% change from 2017 to ‡% change from 2010 (goal) ** All Scope 3 calculations are adjusted to account for updated spend metrics.
Sourcing category spend allocations are subject to change year over year in  alignment with business strategy.SCOPE 3 CO2e EMISSIONS**  PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EMISSIONS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL 2018                                                                            93% 2017 93% 2016 93% 2015 91%KEY METRICS – ENVIRONMENTAL 104          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTOTAL WASTE  TONS TOTAL(g) Total Waste   Not LandfilledTotal Waste   LandfilledTotal Waste   Recycled 2018                                                                                                   -1.6%† 59,324 44,247 15,076 27,2017 60,269 43,190 17,079 27,2016 63,341 48,554 14,787 31,2015 65,733 50,553 15,180 31,2010*                                                                               80,442 51,074 29,368 35,TOTAL WASTE – NORMALIZED BY SALES  TONS PER $ MILLION SALES  TOTAL 2020 GOAL                                                                                                   -50%‡1.2018                                                                                                   -7.3%†                                                                          2.2017 2.2016 2.2015 2.2010* 3.*Baseline year †% change from 2017 to ‡% change from 2010 (goal)PACKAGING REDUCTION  MILLION POUNDS OF PACKAGING Cumulative   Reduction (%)Cumulative   Reduction (MM lb.) 2020 GOAL                                                                     -10%‡-10% 2018                                                                           13.95% 41.2017 11.52% 34.2016 6.46% 19.2015 5.21% 15.2010* 0% 0KEY METRICS – ENVIRONMENTAL 105          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2e EMISSIONS BY REGION(e)  1,000 METRIC TONS  2010* 2016 2017 NORTH AMERICA Canada 25 17 18 USA 671 523 493 Region Total 697 540 511 CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA Argentina 12 16 12 Brazil 3 5 11 Chile 4 4 4 Colombia 1 2 3 Costa Rica 0 2 0 Mexico 16 14 13 Peru 1 1 1 Puerto Rico 57 12 14 Commercial Region Total(h)25 24 28 Region Total 120 80 86 73CO2e Emissions  2010* 2016 2017 EUROPE Belgium 0 0 0 Germany 31 25 23 Ireland 66 56 47 Netherlands 71 66 70 Russia 17 23 25 Spain 11 9 8 Sweden 0 0 0 Switzerland 0 0 0 United Kingdom 17 10 9 Commercial Region Total(h)42 40 46 Region Total 255 229 229 ASIA PACIFIC China 5 21 19 India 18 39 37 Japan 1 1 1 Malaysia 0 9 9 Pakistan 19 21 22 Singapore 45 43 43 Vietnam 1 1 2 Commercial Region Total(h)74 73 72 Region Total 165 212 206 Total 1,237 1,061 1,031 1,*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 106          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCO2e DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION  1,000 METRIC TONS  2010* 2016 2017 NORTH AMERICA Canada 14 11 11 USA 292 241 242 Region Total 306 252 253 CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA Argentina 6 7 4 Brazil 2 2 9 Chile 1 0 0 Colombia 0 0 0 Costa Rica 0 0 0 Mexico 15 14 12 Peru 0 0 0 Puerto Rico 2 0 4 Commercial Region Total 22 21 25 Region Total 49 45 54 42 2010* 2016 2017 EUROPE Belgium 0 0 0 Germany 11 13 11 Ireland 38 32 29 Netherlands 41 32 34 Russia 13 14 15 Spain 5 6 4 Sweden 0 0 0 Switzerland 0 0 0 United Kingdom 5 3 3 Commercial Region Total 32 30 36 Region Total 145 130 133 ASIA PACIFIC China 1 9 8 India 1 11 11 Indonesia 0 1 1 Japan 0 0 0 Malaysia 0 0 0 Pakistan 16 18 19 Singapore 18 21 20 Vietnam 0 0 0 Commercial Region Total 31 30 29 Region Total 69 90 86 Total 569 516 526 *Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 107          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCO2e EMISSIONS – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION(e)  1,000 METRIC TONS  2010* 2016 2017 NORTH AMERICA Canada 11 7 7 USA 379 282 251 Region Total 390 288 258 CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA Argentina 6 9 9 Brazil 1 3 2 Chile 3 3 3 Colombia 1 2 2 Costa Rica 0 2 0 Mexico 0 0 1 Peru 1 1 1 Puerto Rico 54 11 10 Commercial Region Total(h)3 3 3 Region Total 70 35 31 32 2010* 2016 2017 EUROPE Belgium 0 0 0 Germany 20 12 11 Ireland 28 24 18 Netherlands 30 34 37 Russia 4 8 10 Spain 6 4 4 Sweden 0 0 0 Switzerland 0 0 0 United Kingdom 12 7 7 Commercial Region Total(h)9 9 9 Region Total 111 99 96 ASIA PACIFIC China 4 12 11 India 17 28 27 Indonesia 2 2 3 Japan 1 1 1 Malaysia 0 9 9 Pakistan 2 3 3 Singapore 26 22 23 Vietnam 1 1 2 Commercial Region Total(h)43 43 43 Region Total 97 122 121 Total 668 544 506 *Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 108          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWATER INTAKE BY REGION  BILLION GALLONS  2010* 2016 2017 NORTH AMERICA Canada 0.22 0.16 0.16 0.USA 1.90 1.90 1.80 1.Region Total 2.12 2.06 1.96 1.CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA Argentina 0.08 0.09 0.07 0.Brazil 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.Chile 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.Colombia 0.01 0.02 0.02 0.Costa Rica 0.00 0.03 0.03 0.Mexico 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.Peru 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.Puerto Rico 0.16 0.03 0.03 0.Region Total 0.33 0.25 0.21 0.20Water Intake  2010* 2016 2017 EUROPE Belgium 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.Germany 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.Ireland 0.17 0.17 0.17 0.Netherlands 0.40 0.34 0.35 0.Russia 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.Spain 0.06 0.07 0.07 0.Sweden 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.Switzerland 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.United Kingdom 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.Region Total 0.77 0.70 0.71 0.ASIA PACIFIC China 0.01 0.08 0.08 0.India 0.06 0.12 0.12 0.Indonesia 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.Japan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.Malaysia 0.00 0.03 0.02 0.Pakistan 0.12 0.13 0.13 0.Singapore 0.19 0.19 0.19 0.Vietnam 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.Region Total 0.39 0.56 0.55 0.Total 3.61 3.56 3.42 3.*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 109          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTOTAL BILLION GALLONS  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total Water Consumed 0.68 0.78 0.74 0.70 -4.8Water Consumed (In Process) Water Discharged (Impaired)NORMALIZED BY SALES GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total Water Consumed 31 30 28 25 -10.TOTAL BILLION GALLONS  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 2.26 2.22 2.19 2.30 5.NORMALIZED BY SALES GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total Water Discharged (Impaired) 105 87 81 81 -0.9Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) TOTAL BILLION GALLONS  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 0.67 0.56 0.50 0.48 -3.NORMALIZED BY SALES GALLONS PER $1,000 SALES  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total Water Discharged (Non-Impaired) 31 22 19 17 -8.Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) Concentration in Wastewater MILLIGRAMS PER LITER  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Concentration in Wastewater Discharged  to Environment(i)6 8 16 10 -37.*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 110          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTOTAL WASTE BY REGION TONS  2010* 2016 2017 NORTH AMERICA Canada 1,313 758 790 USA 41,973 29,609 28,600 27,Region Total 43,286 30,366 29,390 28,CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA Argentina 1,359 1,206 997 Brazil 680 660 615 Chile 580 776 708 Colombia 816 1,275 1,765 1,Costa Rica 0 1,222 1,332 1,Mexico 222 453 379 Peru 313 392 346 Puerto Rico 3,292 540 547 Commercial Region Total(h)814 814 814 Region Total 8,076 7,338 7,502 7,322Total Waste(g)  2010* 2016 2017 EUROPE Belgium 368 368 368 Germany 2,158 2,693 2,461 2,Ireland 5,216 4,521 4,091 4,Netherlands 6,670 4,419 4,660 4,Russia 1,206 1,358 1,094 1,Spain 738 1,305 1,251 1,Sweden 113 0 0 Switzerland 90 52 48 United Kingdom 1,260 1,195 702 Commercial Region Total(h)817 817 817 Region Total 18,637 16,729 15,492 16,ASIA PACIFIC China 207 616 391 India 2,063 2,245 2,186 2,Indonesia 205 16 26 Japan 498 400 386 Malaysia 0 118 118 Pakistan 1,257 647 657 Singapore 3,993 2,654 1,836 2,Vietnam 49 40 114 Commercial Region Total(h)2,172 2,172 2,172 1,Region Total 10,444 8,908 7,886 7,Total 80,442 63,341 60,269 59,*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 111          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHazardous Waste(g) TOTAL TONS  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Hazardous Waste Not Landfilled 9,397 6,200 6,661 6,443 -3.Hazardous Waste Landfilled 786 658 550 496 -9.Total Hazardous Waste 10,183 6,858 7,212 6,939 -3.NORMALIZED BY SALES  TONS PER $ MILLION SALES  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total Hazardous Waste 0.47 0.27 0.27 0.24 -9.*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 112          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION(g) TONS  2010* 2016 2017 NORTH AMERICA Canada 149 143 128 USA 1,304 885 975 Region Total 1,453 1,028 1,103 1,CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA Argentina 603 564 544 Brazil 117 158 202 Chile 237 330 156 Colombia 198 183 251 Costa Rica 0 378 386 Mexico 33 116 62 Peru 79 113 96 Puerto Rico 1,596 63 55 Commercial Region Total(h)123 123 123 Region Total 2,985 2,028 1,874 1,764 2010* 2016 2017 EUROPE Belgium 8 8 8 Germany 486 967 589 Ireland 536 451 457 Netherlands 3,283 1,414 1,685 1,Russia 294 94 417 Spain 3 7 4 Sweden 0 0 0 Switzerland 2 0 0 United Kingdom 481 84 64 Commercial Region Total(h)66 66 66 Region Total 5,159 3,092 3,290 3,ASIA PACIFIC China 3 19 21 India 264 286 502 Indonesia 7 8 10 Japan 18 14 12 Malaysia 0 60 60 Pakistan 65 105 75 Singapore 24 12 20 Vietnam 16 17 53 Commercial Region Total(h)190 190 190 Region Total 587 711 945 Total 10,183 6,858 7,212 6,*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 113          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTNon-Hazardous Waste(g) TOTAL TONS  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Non-Hazardous Waste Not Landfilled 41,677 42,354 36,529 37,804 3.Non-Hazardous Waste Landfilled 28,582 14,129 16,529 14,580 -11.Total Non-Hazardous Waste 70,258 56,483 53,058 52,385 -1.NORMALIZED BY SALES TONS PER $ MILLION SALES  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total Non-Hazardous Waste 3.25 2.20 1.98 1.84 -7.*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 114          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTNON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY REGION(g) TONS  2010* 2016 2017 NORTH AMERICA Canada 1,164 615 662 USA 40,669 28,724 27,625 26,Region Total 41,833 29,338 28,287 27,CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA Argentina 756 642 453 Brazil 563 502 413 Chile 343 446 552 Colombia 618 1,092 1,514 1,Costa Rica 0 844 947 1,Mexico 190 337 317 Peru 234 279 250 Puerto Rico 1,696 477 491 Commercial Region Total(h)691 691 691 Region Total 5,091 5,310 5,628 5,558 2010* 2016 2017 EUROPE Belgium 361 361 361 Germany 1,672 1,726 1,872 2,Ireland 4,679 4,071 3,634 3,Netherlands 3,388 3,005 2,975 2,Russia 912 1,264 677 Spain 735 1,298 1,247 1,Sweden 112 0 0 Switzerland 89 52 48 United Kingdom 779 1,111 637 Commercial Region Total(h)751 751 751 Region Total 13,478 13,637 12,202 12,ASIA PACIFIC China 205 598 370 India 1,799 1,959 1,684 1,Indonesia 198 8 16 Japan 480 387 374 Malaysia 0 58 58 Pakistan 1,192 541 581 Singapore 3,968 2,642 1,816 2,Vietnam 33 23 60 Commercial Region Total(h)1,982 1,982 1,982 1,Region Total 9,857 8,198 6,941 7,Total 70,258 56,483 53,058 52,*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 115          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEnergy Consumption 1,000 GIGAJOULES  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Purchased Fuels (Scope 1)(c)9,180 8,895 9,113 9,130 0.Purchased Energy (Scope 2) 5,217 4,492 4,403 4,265 -3.Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2)   Energy Consumption 14,398 13,387 13,516 13,395 -0.NORMALIZED BY SALES GIGAJOULES PER $ MILLION SALES  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Purchased Fuels (Scope 1) 425 347 339 320 -5.Purchased Energy (Scope 2) 242 175 164 150 -8.Total (Scope 1 and Scope 2)   Energy Consumption 667 522 503 470 -6.7Electricity Generated On Site MILLION KILOWATT HOURS  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to From Cogeneration 35.3 45.3 55.9 65.7 17.From Renewables 0.05 0.31 1.18 1.30 9.*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 116          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTOTAL SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY REGION  1,000 GIGAJOULES  2010* 2016 2017 NORTH AMERICA Canada 445 331 335 USA 7,117 6,501 6,464 6,Region Total 7,562 6,831 6,799 6,CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA Argentina 109 141 133 Brazil 81 84 188 Chile 40 36 32 Colombia 33 45 52 Costa Rica 0 101 102 Mexico 275 246 219 Peru 19 18 19 Puerto Rico 652 114 163 Commercial Region Total 424 404 463 Region Total 1,633 1,188 1,371 1,165 2010* 2016 2017 EUROPE Belgium 3 3 2 Germany 360 291 284 Ireland 728 741 660 Netherlands 961 825 870 Russia 265 336 357 Spain 144 155 125 Sweden 30 0 0 Switzerland 5 2 2 United Kingdom 175 109 117 Commercial Region Total 645 616 705 Region Total 3,317 3,078 3,121 3,ASIA PACIFIC China 27 215 192 India 140 282 272 Indonesia 15 20 21 Japan 10 8 8 Malaysia 0 49 46 Pakistan 306 313 311 Singapore 515 556 539 Vietnam 9 12 14 Commercial Region Total 862 834 822 Region Total 1,886 2,289 2,224 2,Total 14,398 13,387 13,516 13,*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 117          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED FUELS (SCOPE 1) BY REGION 1,000 GIGAJOULES  2010* 2016 2017 NORTH AMERICA Canada 253 187 193 USA 4,772 4,493 4,512 4,Region Total 5,024 4,679 4,705 4,CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA Argentina 47 57 52 Brazil 25 18 134 Chile 13 7 5 Colombia 7 7 9 Costa Rica 0 2 2 Mexico 272 244 214 Peru 3 3 3 Puerto Rico 27 6 57 Commercial Region Total 333 313 371 Region Total 726 657 848 679 2010* 2016 2017 EUROPE Belgium 1 1 0 Germany 179 189 188 Ireland 512 540 509 Netherlands 717 568 600 Russia 228 257 267 Spain 61 99 71 Sweden 0 0 0 Switzerland 0 0 0 United Kingdom 91 48 50 Commercial Region Total 465 437 526 Region Total 2,254 2,138 2,211 2,ASIA PACIFIC China 9 151 132 India 75 158 148 Indonesia 7 8 8 Japan 0 0 0 Malaysia 0 1 1 Pakistan 288 287 281 Singapore 329 376 351 Vietnam 0 0 0 Commercial Region Total 468 440 428 Region Total 1,175 1,420 1,349 1,Total 9,180 8,895 9,113 9,*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 118          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENERGY CONSUMPTION – PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) BY REGION 1,000 GIGAJOULES  2010* 2016 2017 NORTH AMERICA Canada 193 144 142 USA 2,345 2,008 1,953 1,Region Total 2,538 2,152 2,094 2,CARIBBEAN AND LATIN AMERICA Argentina 62 84 81 Brazil 56 65 54 Chile 26 30 26 Colombia 26 38 43 Costa Rica 0 99 99 Mexico 3 2 5 Peru 16 15 17 Puerto Rico 625 107 106 Commercial Region Total 92 92 92 Region Total 907 532 523 486 2010* 2016 2017 EUROPE Belgium 2 2 1 Germany 180 102 96 Ireland 217 201 150 Netherlands 244 256 270 Russia 37 80 90 Spain 83 56 54 Sweden 30 0 0 Switzerland 5 2 2 United Kingdom 84 61 67 Commercial Region Total 179 179 179 Region Total 1,062 940 910 ASIA PACIFIC China 19 64 60 India 65 123 124 Indonesia 9 12 12 Japan 10 8 8 Malaysia 0 48 45 Pakistan 18 27 31 Singapore 187 180 188 Vietnam 9 12 13 Commercial Region Total 394 394 394 Region Total 710 868 875 Total 5,217 4,492 4,403 4,*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 119          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENERGY BY SOURCE(j) ENERGY CONSUMED   (Units Below)  2010* 2016 2017 2018 UNITS STATIONARY SOURCES Electricity (Purchased) 1,109 1,025 998 1,024 million kWh Natural Gas 5,409 6,723 6,680 6,904 million cubic feet Fuel Oils 4 0 1 0 million gallons Coal 32 0 0 0 thousand tons Misc.
Fuels (Propane, Kerosene,   LPG, LNG) N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Purchased Steam, Hot Water and  Chilled Water 137 18 20 19 million kWh Biofuels N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Generated Electricity (Cogeneration  and Renewables) 35 46 57 67 million kWh Leased Building Electricity 139 139 139 99 million kWh Leased Building Natural Gas 22 22 22 14 thousand therms MOBILE SOURCES Sales Fleet Gasoline 12.2 10.5 11.4 10.3 million gallons Sales Fleet Diesel 2.7 2.4 2.4 2.5 million gallons Aviation Fuel 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 million gallons Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline,  E85, Propane) 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 million gallonsENERGY BY SOURCE(j) ENERGY CONSUMED   (1,000 Gigajoules)  2010* 2016 2017 STATIONARY SOURCES Electricity (Purchased) 3,991 3,691 3,594 3,Natural Gas 5,513 6,864 6,828 7,Fuel Oils 556 36 86 Coal 935 0 0 Misc.
Fuels (Propane, Kerosene,   LPG, LNG) 19 136 221 Purchased Steam, Hot Water and  Chilled Water 493 67 71 Biofuels 58 7 9 Generated Electricity (Cogeneration  and Renewables) 0 1 4 Leased Building Electricity 499 499 499 Leased Building Natural Gas 234 234 234 Stationary Total 12,210 11,658 11,590 11,MOBILE SOURCES Sales Fleet Gasoline 1,604 1,390 1,501 1,Sales Fleet Diesel 386 342 356 Aviation Fuel 76 93 94 Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline,  E85, Propane) 33 28 19 Mobile Total 2,099 1,853 1,970 1,*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 120          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCO2 EQUIVALENT BY ENERGY SOURCE(j) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS   (1,000 Metric Ton CO2 Equivalent)  2010* 2016 2017 STATIONARY SOURCES Electricity (Purchased) 588 483 444 Natural Gas 292 363 361 Fuel Oils 41 3 6 Coal 83 0 0 Misc.
Fuels (Propane, Kerosene,   LPG, LNG) 1 11 16 Purchased Steam, Hot Water and  Chilled Water 21 3 3 Biofuels 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.Generated Electricity (Cogeneration  and Renewables) 0 0 0 Leased Building Electricity 50 50 50 Leased Building Natural Gas 9 9 9 Stationary Total 1,086 921 889 MOBILE SOURCES Sales Fleet Gasoline 107 93 100 Sales Fleet Diesel 27 24 25 Aviation Fuel 5 6 6 Plant/Shuttle Fleet (Diesel, Gasoline,  E85, Propane) 2 2 1 Mobile Total 142 125 133 *Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 121          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTVolatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions TOTAL  1,000 METRIC TONS  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total 1.00 1.16 1.16 1.23 5.NORMALIZED BY SALES   METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total 0.046 0.045 0.043 0.043 -0.8Sulfur Oxide (SOX) From Combustion(k) TOTAL  1,000 METRIC TONS  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total 0.58 0.04 0.04 0.05 13.NORMALIZED BY SALES   METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total 0.027 0.002 0.007 0.007 5.Nitrous Oxide (NOX) From Combustion(k) TOTAL  1,000 METRIC TONS  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total 0.410 0.320 0.326 0.334 2.NORMALIZED BY SALES   METRIC TONS PER $ MILLION SALES  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total 0.019 0.012 0.012 0.012 -3.*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 122          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEnvironment, Health and Safety (EHS) Fines U.S. DOLLARS  2010* 2016 2017 2018(l)% Change   From to Environmental Fines 27,950 0 0 0 N/A Health and Safety Fines 0 180 751 3,000 299% Total Environment, Health and Safety Fines 27,950 180 751 3,000Notices of Violation (NOVs)  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total 4 4 4 7 75.Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Inspections   by Government Agencies(m)  2010* 2016 2017 2018% Change   From to Total 46 61 130 139 6.*Baseline yearDETAILED   ENVIRONMENTAL   PERFORMANCE 123          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAll environmental data have been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance   with the methodology prescribed in the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for  Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP).
We report data from  acquisitions as soon as practical.
To that end, these data include the acquisitions of St. Jude Medical   and Glomed, but not Alere, Inc.
Furthermore, these data reflect the divestiture of Abbott Medical Optics.
(a) Progress toward 2020 carbon goal is reported using the GHGP Scope 2 market-based methodology.
(b) Per the GHGP , where market-based information is not available, location-based results have been used   as proxy.
(c) Reported Purchased Fuel Scope 1 sources consist of fuel consumed by manufacturing facilities, sales fleet  and Abbott-owned aviation.
(d) Per WRI GHGP , Scope 1 refrigerant CO2e emissions include only those covered in the   Kyoto Protocol.
(e) Reported Scope 2 sources consist of energy directly purchased by Abbott, such as electricity and steam,   as well as emissions from leased locations.
Unless specified otherwise, emissions are calculated according   to the WRI/WBCSD GHGP Scope 2 Location-Based Method.
(f ) Water-stressed locations have been determined using WRI Aqueduct global water risk mapping tool.
(g) Waste-generation data do not include materials that are reused beneficially, which was roughly   98,000 tons in 2018.
(h) Waste and CO2e Commercial Region Total data collection and calculation methodology were updated   to better quantify years 2010–2017 .
(i) BOD data provided are the flow-weighted averages of sampled concentrations for water directly   discharged to the environment only.
Water discharged to the environment represents about 17 percent   of total water discharged.
( j) Abbott's non-energy-consumption greenhouse gas emissions, such as refrigerant releases and process   air emissions, are omitted.
The total CO2 equivalents from non-energy sources are 9-, 11-, 10-, 9-, 10-, 11-,   14-, 10-, and 9-thousand metric tons from 2010–2018, respectively.
(k) Reflects emissions from fuel combusted at manufacturing facilities only.
(l) Our recently acquired Rapid Diagnostics business (formerly Alere) data are not included in this report.
(m) Definition for “government agency inspection” was updated in 2017 by Abbott to include routine visits   and sample collection from regulatory agencies or designated representatives.
This change is not reflected   in our metrics for 2010–2016, only 2017 forward.METRICS REFERENCES Note: Sums may not add up exactly due to rounding.
124          REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITYABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT125 Courtney Duckworth was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes  when she was 10 years old, but she wasn’t going to let her  diabetes hold her back from crossing a marathon off her  bucket list.
She decided in college to train for and compete  in her first marathon, and in 2015, she ran the Boston  Marathon using Abbott’s FreeStyle® Lite traditional  glucose meter.
In 2018, she ran her second Boston  Marathon with the help of our FreeStyle® Libre flash  glucose monitoring system.
With the FreeStyle Libre system, she did not need to prick  her finger1 when running.
Instead, she waved a handheld  device over a sensor about the size of two stacked   quarters worn on the back of her upper arm.
Her glucose  measurement immediately appeared on the device reader,  along with information about how her glucose had   been trending and where it was forecasted to go.
This  life-changing technology gave her the confidence to   know what was going on with the glucose in her body  throughout her race, helping her to accomplish yet  another extraordinary feat.From the beginning, we have worked to provide broad  access to the FreeStyle Libre system in countries around  the world.
The system reduces users from having to pay  for test strips that are typically used for routine blood  glucose self-monitoring1.
In 2018, Abbott presented data  that showed FreeStyle Libre users saw savings of more  than $120 a month by eliminating the cost of test strips2.
We also work with governments around the world to  qualify the system for government reimbursement,  making the device more accessible for people who could  most benefit.
All of this work is translating into rapid  access for people with diabetes: the FreeStyle Libre system  is now available in more than 46 countries and is partially  or fully reimbursed in 33 of them – with 1.5 million people  currently using the system3.
INDICATIONS AND IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION  FreeStyle Libre Flash Glucose Monitoring systems are  continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) devices indicated  for replacing blood glucose testing and detecting trends  and tracking patterns aiding in the detection of episodes  of hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, facilitating both  acute and long-term therapy adjustments in persons   (age 18 and older) with diabetes.
The systems are intended  for single patient use and require a prescription.
CONTRAINDICATIONS Remove the sensor before MRI, CT scan, X-ray, or   diathermy treatment.
WARNINGS/LIMITATIONS Do not ignore symptoms that may be due to low or high  blood glucose, hypoglycemic unawareness, or dehydration.
Check sensor glucose readings with a blood glucose   meter when Check Blood Glucose symbol appears, when  symptoms do not match system readings, or when  readings are suspected to be inaccurate.
The system does  not have alarms unless the sensor is scanned, and the  system contains small parts that may be dangerous if  swallowed.
The system is not approved for pregnant  women, persons on dialysis, or critically-ill population.
Sensor placement is not approved for sites other than the  back of the arm and standard precautions for transmission  of blood borne pathogens should be taken.
The built-in  blood glucose meter is not for use on dehydrated, hypotensive,  in shock, hyperglycemic-hyperosmolar state, with or  without ketosis, neonates, critically-ill patients, or for  diagnosis or screening of diabetes.
When using FreeStyle  LibreLink app, access to a blood glucose monitoring  system is required as the app does not provide one.
Review  all product information before use or contact Abbott Toll  Free (855-632-8658) or visit www.freestylelibre.us for  detailed indications for use and safety information.
1.
Fingersticks are required for treatment decisions when you see Check  Blood Glucose symbol, when symptoms do not match system readings,  when you suspect readings may be inaccurate, or when you experience  symptoms that may be due to high or low blood glucose.
2.
Hellmund R.
Cost Calculation and Adherence to ADA Recommendations  based on a Flash Continuous Glucose Monitoring System.
Presented at   the American Diabetes Association 78th Scientific Sessions.
https://plan.
core-apps.com/tristar_ada18/abstract/5188446740e191fd289345d56a78cdc3.
Data on file: Abbott Diabetes CareABOUT THE COVER ABBOTT 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWWW.ABBOTT.COM/SUSTAINABILITYPlease contact us with your questions and comments: Abbott Sustainability  100 Abbott Park Road, Department 0383,   Abbott Park, IL 60064-6048  responsibility@abbott.com Copyright © 2019 Abbott.
All rights reserved.