June 2021   |   sustainability.aboutamazon.com
Further  
and Faster,  
TogetherAmazon Sustainability 2020 Report:Our Progress in 2020 
Environment 
  Net-Zero Carbon by 2040 
  Sustainable Operations
  Sustainability in the Cloud
  Circular Economy
  Product Sustainability
People
  Human Rights
  Employees
  Supply Chain
  Community
Governance
Appendices06 
11 
12   
23 
37 
44 
51 
57 
58
65 
83 
94 
103
111Table of 
ContentsINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
2 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESAmazon seeks to be Earth’s most customer-centric 
company, Earth’s best employer, and Earth’s safest place 
to work. We are passionate builders guided by four 
principles: customer obsession rather than competitor 
focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational 
excellence, and long-term thinking.  
 
In each of our segments we serve our primary customer 
sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, 
enterprises, and content creators. In addition, we provide 
services, such as advertising to sellers, vendors, publishers, 
authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored 
ads, display, and video advertising. We have organized 
our operations into three segments: North America, 
International, and Amazon Web Services (AWS).   
 
We design our stores to enable hundreds of millions of 
unique products to be sold by us and by third parties 
across dozens of product categories. Customers access 
our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, 
devices, streaming, and physically visiting our stores. We 
also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including 
Kindle, Fire tablet, Fire TV, Echo, Ring home security 
products, and other devices, and we develop and produce 
media content. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, 
a membership program that includes unlimited free 
shipping and other benefits. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America 
and International fulfillment and delivery networks that 
we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements 
in certain countries; digital delivery; and through our 
physical stores. We operate customer service centers 
globally, which are supplemented through co-sourced 
arrangements. We offer programs that enable sellers to 
grow their businesses, sell their products in our stores, 
and fulfill orders through us. We are not the seller of 
record in these sellers’ transactions. We earn fixed fees, 
a percentage of sales, per-unit activity fees, interest, or 
some combination thereof, for our seller programs.  
 
We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes, including 
startups, government agencies, and academic institutions 
through our AWS segment, which offers a broad set of 
on-demand technology services—including compute, 
storage, database, and machine learning—and other 
service offerings. AWS is the world’s most comprehensive 
and broadly adopted cloud platform; we sell over 200 
fully featured AWS services from data centers globally. 
 As of December 31, 
2020, Amazon employed 
approximately 1.3  
million full-time and  
part-time workers  
across the globe. 
Our Business
MORE INFORMATION ABOUT AMAZON CAN BE  
FOUND IN OUR MOST RECENT ANNUAL REPORT   
AND OUR LATEST PROXY STATEMENT
3
Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020It is said that “good things come in threes.” For this, our 
third Amazon Sustainability Report, we are happy to share 
some good news, along with the challenges we face, 
around our progress toward meeting our sustainability 
commitments. Now in our third year, we are able to 
observe more complete data than ever before, including 
trend lines of our path to decarbonization.  
We know all progress is not linear, and if any year 
demonstrated that forecasting is difficult, it was 2020. Over 
the past 12 months, our world has endured unprecedented 
challenges. Everything about how we work, learn, travel, 
and live was examined, revalued, and, to some extent, 
upended in 2020. As change can bring about critical 
reflection and collective introspection, the last year has 
forced us to rethink how infrastructure and the built 
environment have set in motion environmental impacts 
for years to come, and we need to continue to seek new 
technologies, products, and services to access the things 
we need. At the same time, we must also directly confront 
how systemic racism is hurting people, including how 
marginalized communities face disproportionate negative 
environmental impacts—and we need to do better.
This is the start of a defining and decisive decade. 
The COVID-19 pandemic took millions of lives and 
dramatically impacted our families, our customers, our 
employees, and our global value chain. But it has also 
brought about a moment of pause and an opportunity 
to reconsider the resiliency of both humankind and 
our planet, making it clear how interconnected and 
interdependent we all are. By keeping the past year’s 
learnings in mind, we can successfully address societal 
shifts, avoid the worst impacts of climate change, and 
meet the Sustainable Development Goals.
Our resolve is driven by science, and the science tells us 
that we have a limited window to act and stay below a 
predicted 1.5-degree Celsius global temperature rise. In 
2019, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change told us that the world needed to move faster. At Amazon, 
we realized we needed to move faster too. This was the 
beginning of The Climate Pledge—a commitment that we 
co-founded with Christiana Figueres, architect of the Paris 
Agreement, to be net-zero carbon by 2040—10 years 
ahead of the Paris Agreement.
We know that addressing the global crisis of climate 
change will take a combination of big, bold commitments 
and everyday actions. We know that these commitments 
and actions have the power to not only stave off crisis, 
but to create a more beautiful, livable, and breathable 
planet, with better jobs and increased economic 
development for all. Amazon plans to be at the heart of 
the change, starting with actions we are taking within our 
own company, and extending those solutions out to our 
customers, suppliers, vendors, and sellers.  
Letter from Kara HurstINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
4 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020We are committed to building a sustainable business 
for our customers and the planet, and we’ve taken 
big steps in that direction:
 We reached 65% renewable energy across our 
business in 2020 and became the world’s largest 
corporate purchaser of renewable energy. We are on an 
accelerated path to power our global operations with 
100% renewable energy by 2025.
 We are electrifying our delivery vehicles and 
transportation network. To date, we have delivered 
more than 20 million packages to customers in electric 
delivery vehicles across North America and Europe.
 We offer an average starting pay of over $17 per hour 
in our fulfillment and logistics network, along with 
industry-leading benefits for full-time employees. 
We are also advocating for an increase in the federal 
minimum wage to $15 per hour.
 We set, and met, goals in 2020 to double the 
representation of Black directors and vice presidents, 
and we set new diversity, equity, and inclusion goals for 
2021 that will further diversify our company.
We cannot go this alone, nor would we want to. To 
create lasting and systemic change on our planet, we 
are focused on—really, borderline obsessed with—
driving change beyond Amazon, and in partnership with 
others. We have seen over 100 other companies join 
The Climate Pledge in the last year, a number that is an 
incredible testament to what this type of collaboration 
can yield. The list of signatories is growing each month, 
and signatories in total generate more than $1.4 trillion 
in global annual revenues and have more than 5 million 
employees across 25 industries and 16 countries. We 
stand together in our belief that accelerating action to 
achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 is the right 
thing to do for our planet and our businesses. 
 At Amazon, we are also serving as a catalyst, sending 
signals to the market to drive a faster transition to a 
low-carbon economy:
 We purchased 100,000 electric vehicles from Rivian, all 
of which will be on the road by 2030.
 We created The Climate Pledge Fund—a $2 
billion investment to support the development 
of technologies and services that reduce carbon 
emissions and help preserve the natural world—and 
already invested in seven visionary companies.
 We launched the AWS Clean Energy Accelerator to help 
startups working in clean energy accelerate their impact, 
access additional resources, and expand their reach.  
 We served as a founding participant of the LEAF 
Coalition, a global public-private initiative that aims to 
raise at least $1 billion to protect the world’s tropical 
rainforests. 
 We launched Climate Pledge Friendly in 2020 to help 
customers find products that preserve the natural 
world, and we partnered with trusted third-party 
certification organizations to highlight products that 
meet sustainability standards.
We are relentlessly optimistic about the future. We know 
that crossing the finish line won’t be easy, and there’s still 
lots of exploring and inventing that needs to happen. But 
with passion and partnership, we believe we can build a 
better future together. 
 Join us to go further and faster, together. 
Kara Hurst 
Vice President, Worldwide SustainabilityINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
5 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Our Progress  
in 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESBuilding a  
sustainable business  
for our employees, 
customers, and 
communities  
As part of Amazon’s mission to be Earth’s most customer-centric 
company, we are committed to building a sustainable business for our 
employees, customers, and communities. We are driving toward a net-
zero carbon future where the people that support our entire value chain 
are treated with dignity and respect. 
Amazon’s 2020 Sustainability Report builds on our sustainability progress 
over the last decade—particularly since 2019 when we co-founded The 
Climate Pledge and announced our commitment to achieve net-zero 
carbon emissions across our business by 2040. This report also includes 
our work on a wider range of Amazon commitments and initiatives to 
support our employees, our supply chain partners, and the communities 
where we operate around the world.
7 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESLaunched The Climate Pledge 
Fund, a $2 billion investment 
program to support the 
development of sustainable and 
decarbonizing technologies and 
services, and invested in several 
visionary companies
20Climate 
Pledge  
Fund
Became the world’s largest 
corporate purchaser of 
renewable energy and reached 
65% renewable energy across 
our business
Delivered more than 
20 million packages to 
customers in electric 
delivery vehicles across 
North America and 
Europe in 2020Our Progress | Environment
the world’s 
first net-zero 
carbon arena
Secured the naming rights 
to Climate Pledge Arena and 
submitted registration to 
become the world’s first net-
zero carbon certified arena
Like many companies and countries that invest in long-
range goals, we know that the path to achieving net-
zero carbon will be challenging, perhaps not following 
a linear progression from year to year. A goal of this 
scale requires bold commitments and innovation to 
transform our entire business over a prolonged period 
of time, along with perseverance and daily actions by 
business leaders. Across our company, we are laying 
the groundwork for the next 20 years of accelerated 
progress, starting with real-time carbon reporting 
structures to equip teams with actionable data and help them reduce carbon emissions in every part of our 
business. At the same time, we are making significant 
investments in both proven and emerging technologies 
to address the largest contributors to our carbon 
footprint—deploying new renewable energy projects, 
electrifying our fleet of delivery vehicles, retrofitting 
buildings, and more. We are also helping to build a 
cross-sector community of companies, organizations, 
and partners through The Climate Pledge to collectively 
solve the challenges of decarbonizing our economy. 65%INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
8 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Our Progress | People
Our commitment to a sustainable future depends upon 
the people who support our value chain each and every 
day—from the factory workers who make the products 
we sell, to the associates in our fulfillment centers, to 
the drivers who deliver packages to our customers. We 
are committed to ensuring our employees, workers, 
and communities are treated with dignity and respect. 
While these fundamental values have been long-held 
at Amazon, in 2019, we codified them into a set of 
Human Rights Principles, reaffirming our commitment 
to human rights and outlining our approach across all aspects of our business. In 2020, we built upon 
this commitment initiating a human rights saliency 
assessment in accordance with the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
The results of this assessment help us prioritize key 
areas where we have the greatest opportunity to have 
a positive impact on workers and communities. We 
know we have more to do, and we are committed to 
continuously widening our lens to better understand 
the potential human rights impacts of our business.100%Women at Amazon earned 
100.0 cents for every 
dollar that men earned 
performing the same jobs, 
and minorities earned 99.2 
cents for every dollar that 
white employees earned 
performing the same jobsEmployed more than 40,000 veterans 
and military spouses, surpassing our 
goal of 25,000 by 2021
Trained 100% of our internal fleet of drivers 
to identify and respond to potential victims 
of human trafficking they might encounter 
on the road through the Truckers Against 
Trafficking curriculumLaunched the $2 billion Housing 
Equity Fund to preserve and 
create more than 20,000 
affordable homes in the U.S.
$2B40 ,000
Pay EquityINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
9 Amazon Sustainability Report | 202010Our Progress | COVID-19
A WS Diagnostic 
Development 
Initiative 
Launched the $20 million 
AWS Diagnostic Development 
Initiative to accelerate  
COVID-19 research 
Provided more than $2.5 billion in 
bonuses and incentives for our teams 
globally, part of the $11.5 billion 
we invested in COVID-19-related 
measures overall in 2020$11. 5B
Distributed personal 
protective gear, including 
millions of masks  
for employeesMillions of Masks$25 million
Established a $25 million relief fund 
for partners and seasonal associates 
facing financial hardship or quarantine 
during the COVID-19 pandemic
We are proud of the progress we made toward our 
sustainability goals and commitments in 2020, a 
year of unprecedented challenges for our world. 
Since the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic, we 
worked nonstop to make hundreds of changes to 
our operational processes to protect the health of 
our employees and communities. We invested more 
than $11.5 billion in COVID-related initiatives, with 
safety measures, supplies, and special benefits for our front-line employees. When jobs were lost during the 
pandemic, Amazon helped get people back to work: 
we hired 500,000 new employees, whose jobs in 
hospitality, restaurants, travel, and other industries had 
been lost or furloughed. To support the communities 
that we are proud to call home, we donated millions of 
dollars in cash grants and in-kind contributions to local 
businesses and organizations fighting the COVID-19 
outbreak across the globe.
10INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020EnvironmentINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT       PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
 2530
40In 2019, Amazon co-founded The Climate Pledge—  
a commitment to achieve net-zero carbon emissions 
across our business by 2040 and to invite others to 
sign on to this new level of ambition. 
Renewable Energy
On a path to powering our  
operations with 100% renewable  
energy by 2025  
 
 
Shipment Zero
Making 50% of all shipments  
net-zero carbon by 2030
Net-Zero Carbon
Reaching net-zero carbon  
emissions across our  
operations by 2040As part of our path to the 
Pledge, Amazon has made 
significant commitments  
toward reaching our goal:INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
12 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Electric Delivery Vehicles
Deploying 100,000 custom electric  
delivery vehicles by 2030
Right Now Climate Fund
Investing $100 million in reforestation 
projects and climate mitigation solutions  
 
 
Climate Pledge Fund
Investing $2 billion to support the 
development of decarbonizing  
technologies and services100K100M
2BINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
13 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020While Amazon’s 2020 carbon footprint reflects the growth 
of our business to meet increasing customer demand during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, we made significant progress in 
reducing the carbon intensity of our business activities in 
2020, following our investments in large-scale, long-term 
decarbonization solutions. We also saw a decrease in the 
absolute emissions from purchased electricity—a result of 
our investments in global renewable energy projects that 
came online in 2020—despite increasing our buildings 
square footage to keep pace with our business growth. Our 
renewable energy investments made Amazon the world’s 
largest corporate buyer of renewable energy in 2020, and 
we achieved 65% renewable energy across our operations, 
up from 42% in 2019.
Like many companies and countries in high growth mode, 
we consider both the absolute tons of carbon in our 
footprint and the change in our carbon intensity. Our carbon 
intensity metric quantifies total carbon emissions, in grams 
of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO₂e), per dollar of gross 
merchandise sales (GMS). It is a metric commonly used to 
benchmark performance year over year, as it provides a 
relative comparison between annual metrics regardless of 
other changes to our business. This metric is helpful to assess 
our progress toward our Climate Pledge goal of reaching 
net-zero carbon by 2040, even as our business grows. 
While Amazon’s business grew significantly in 2020 and 
our absolute carbon emissions increased 19% during the 
same period, our overall carbon intensity decreased 16%, 
from 122.8 grams of CO2e per dollar of GMS in 2019 to 
102.7 grams of CO2e per dollar of GMS in 2020. This carbon 
intensity value is in line with the targets we are developing 
through the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), the 
industry leader in helping companies set science-based What is a carbon footprint? 
Our corporate carbon footprint quantifies the total greenhouse 
gas emissions attributed to Amazon’s direct and indirect 
operational activities. We use a comprehensive, hybrid carbon 
footprint approach to transform physical and financial data 
into emissions measurements for Amazon’s specific business 
activities. This allows us to calculate Amazon’s total impact 
on the climate, map the largest activities contributing to this 
impact, and develop meaningful carbon reduction strategies to 
reach net-zero carbon emissions across our business by 2040.Our Carbon  
Footprint
See Amazon’s 2018-2020  
carbon footprint on page 111. INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
14 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020emissions reduction targets. Amazon joined SBTi in May 
2020 and will publish our science-based targets in 2022, in 
accordance with SBTi’s target setting process.
This year-over-year carbon intensity comparison reflects 
our early progress to decarbonize our operations as we also 
continue to grow as a company. Nearly half of our carbon 
intensity improvement is a result of our investments 
in renewable energy and operational efficiency 
enhancements. A third of this improvement reflects a shift 
in customer and employee behavior due to the COVID-19 
pandemic. Customers made fewer trips to our Whole Foods Market stores and other Amazon physical stores in 2020 
and shifted to home delivery instead, which generates 
lower carbon emissions. We also saw less business travel 
and employee commuting as a result of many of our 
employees working from home for most of the year.
We also saw a reduction in our carbon intensity at the 
package fulfillment level, which measures the emissions 
from our business activities to deliver packages to our 
customers’ doorsteps. This calculation—measured in grams 
of CO2e per package delivered—includes the emissions 
generated by our fulfillment operations where items are 
picked off the shelf and packages are sorted, the well-to-
wheel emissions across our transportation network, and 
the lifecycle emissions of the packaging we use to protect 
items during transit. Similar to our overall carbon intensity 
improvement, this reduction was driven by a combination 
of our investments in renewable energy to power our 
fulfillment facilities, efficiencies in our transportation 
network to deliver packages, and reductions in the 
packaging materials we use for each package. 
It will take several years for the carbon reduction benefits of 
our investments to be fully reflected in our footprint. While 
we are still in the early phase of decarbonizing our business, 
we are pleased to see meaningful progress in several areas. 
We will continue to rapidly scale our investments in carbon 
reduction solutions that have large, long-term impacts that 
will move us forward on our path to net-zero carbon by 
2040. As these investments become embedded across our 
business, our carbon emissions will continue to decouple 
from our business growth, reflected in our carbon intensity 
metric. Eventually, we will reach a point where the absolute 
carbon emissions of our business will drop, even as our 
business itself grows. 
This report covers the extensive investments and efforts 
we are making across Amazon to decarbonize our business 
through our Climate Pledge commitment of achieving net-
zero carbon emissions by 2040. 
LEARN MORE ABOUT THE SCIENCE AND  
TECHNOLOGY BEHIND OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT  
IN OUR CARBON METHODOLOGY
READ THE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
VERIFICATION STATEMENT  FROM OUR THIRD-
PARTY AUDITOR, APEXShopping Online vs. In Store 
Amazon’s sustainability scientists have spent years developing 
the models, tools, and metrics to measure our carbon footprint. 
Their detailed analysis found that shopping online consistently 
generates less carbon than driving to a store, since a single 
delivery van trip can take approximately 100 roundtrip car 
journeys off the road on average. Our scientists developed a 
model to compare the carbon intensity of ordering Whole Foods 
Market groceries online versus driving to the nearest Whole 
Foods Market store. The study found that, averaged across 
all basket sizes, online grocery deliveries generate 43% lower 
carbon emissions per item compared to shopping in stores, and 
smaller basket sizes generate even greater carbon savings.Carbon Emissions (mmt CO2e)  
Carbon Intensity (grams CO2e / $ GMS)
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0 140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2018                          2019                          202044.40128.9122.8
102.751.1660.64INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020 15net-
zeroThe Climate  
Pledge
The Climate Pledge is a commitment to 
achieve net-zero carbon by 2040—  
10 years ahead of the Paris Agreement. 
Signatories of the Pledge form a cross-  
sector community of companies, 
organizations, and partners working 
together to address the climate crisis and 
solve the challenges of decarbonizing our 
economy. Joining The Climate Pledge is an 
opportunity for companies to be part of a 
community of leading businesses committed 
to transformational action to protect the 
global economy from the disruptive risks 
associated with climate change.  
 
 The Climate Pledge  
has more than  
100 signatories  
across 25 industries  
and 16 countries  
as of June 2021.
VISIT THE CLIMATE PLEDGE WEBSITEINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020 16Regular Reporting  
Measure and report greenhouse gas 
emissions on a regular basis.
Carbon Elimination  
Implement decarbonization strategies in 
line with the Paris Agreement through real 
business changes and innovations, including 
efficiency improvements, renewable energy, 
materials reductions, and other carbon 
emission elimination strategies.
Credible Offsets  
Neutralize any remaining emissions with 
additional, quantifiable, real, permanent, and 
socially-beneficial offsets to achieve net-zero 
annual carbon emissions by 2040.Signatories of The Climate Pledge  
agree to three principal areas of action:INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
17 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020”“Co-Founding The Climate Pledge
Scientists tell us that we have a limited window to make 
unprecedented headway in order to limit global warming 
to 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2050. No one company or 
organization can do this on its own. Everyone must do 
their part in this unprecedented effort—business does 
not operate in a vacuum. To drive collective, cross-sector 
action, in 2019, Amazon co-founded The Climate Pledge 
with Global Optimism, on the conviction that global 
businesses are responsible, accountable, and able to act 
on the climate crisis. 
 
Partnering to Drive Change
The Climate Pledge and Global Optimism are partnering 
with the We Mean Business coalition and several other 
organizations in the largest effort to date to mobilize the 
private sector to reach net-zero carbon by 2040. This 
partnership will demonstrate that corporate leaders can go 
further and faster on climate action. The Climate Pledge 
and We Mean Business coalition also provide resources and 
support to TED Countdown, Race to Zero, and the Science 
Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), urging companies to respond 
to the climate crisis by setting specific, measurable targets.  
 – Jeff Bezos, Amazon Founder and CEOWe’ve decided to use 
our size and scale to 
make a difference. If a 
company with as much 
physical infrastructure as 
Amazon—which delivers 
more than 10 billion 
items a year—can meet 
the Paris Agreement 10 
years early, then any 
company can.
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020 18The Climate Pledge Fund is a corporate venture capital 
fund that invests in companies that can accelerate 
Amazon’s path to meeting The Climate Pledge. Amazon 
launched The Climate Pledge Fund in 2020 to support 
the development of sustainable and decarbonizing 
technologies and services. This dedicated investment 
program—with an initial $2 billion in funding—invests in 
visionary companies whose products and solutions will 
facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy.
 
The Climate Pledge Fund invests in companies 
across multiple industry sectors with an initial 
focus on: 
  Transportation and logistics
  Energy generation, storage, and utilization
  Manufacturing and materials
  Circular economy
  Food and agriculture
  Renewable energy technology
 
Climate Pledge Fund Investments
Since launching The Climate Pledge Fund in 2020, Amazon 
has made investments in the following companies.
BETA Technologies: BETA Technologies is an electric 
Vertical Takeoff and Landing (eVTOL) company that is 
building electric aircraft that can be used in cargo and 
logistics. Their first aircraft, the ALIA, is capable of flying 
cargo and logistics missions. Amazon is investing in a 
variety of companies that can advance our path to zero-
emissions package delivery.CarbonCure Technologies: CarbonCure Technologies 
has commercialized lower carbon concrete. CarbonCure’s 
process works by injecting recycled carbon dioxide into fresh 
concrete during mixing, permanently sequestering carbon 
dioxide and enabling the reduction of cement content in 
mixes without impacting concrete performance. Amazon 
is working to lower the embodied carbon footprint of our 
buildings by using CarbonCure concrete in new construction, 
including in Amazon’s second headquarters in Virginia.
Infinium: Infinium is a renewable electrofuels solution 
provider that converts carbon dioxide and hydrogen 
feedstocks into net-zero carbon fuels for use in today’s air 
transport, marine freight, and heavy truck fleets. Infinium 
electrofuels enable organizations to meet their carbon 
reduction goals by accelerating the transition away from 
fossil fuels. Amazon is investing in Infinium to support 
decarbonization efforts in the transportation sector.
Ion Energy: Ion Energy is a software developer based 
in Mumbai and Paris that provides advanced battery 
management solutions to owners and operators of battery 
fleets used in stationary and mobile applications. Ion 
Energy’s software and modeling tools provide a look into 
the state of life of those batteries, and improve the way 
batteries are charged and drained for maximum value. 
Amazon operates batteries across our operations and 
we believe energy storage will play an important role in 
achieving net-zero carbon.
Pachama: Pachama is a climate technology company that 
is democratizing access to nature-based carbon markets. 
Pachama’s technology harnesses satellite imaging with 
artificial intelligence to verify the impact of carbon capture 
in nature-based offset projects around the world. Amazon 
is investing in Pachama to expand the use of nature-based 
solutions for carbon sequestration. The Climate  
Pledge FundThe Climate  
Pledge FundINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
19 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Redwood Materials: Redwood Materials is 
commercializing a full process and suite of technologies 
for recycling end-of-life lithium-ion batteries and e-waste 
into high value metals and chemicals. With Amazon’s 
commitment to electric delivery and electrification 
infrastructure, Redwood Materials has the potential to 
help Amazon properly recycle electric vehicle batteries and 
reuse their components. Redwood Materials can also help 
recycle the lithium batteries and e-waste from other parts 
of Amazon’s businesses.
Rivian: Rivian is an electric vehicle maker and automotive 
technology company that develops and produces 
vehicles, products, and services related to sustainable 
transportation. Amazon ordered 100,000 custom electric 
vehicles from Rivian in 2019, and has since participated 
in the company’s latest rounds of investment. With 
the proceeds from these investments, Rivian is further 
developing and integrating its connected electric platform 
with Amazon’s last mile delivery network.
Turntide Technologies: Turntide Technologies develops 
efficient motor technologies that reduce the energy 
consumed by heating, ventilation, and air conditioning in 
buildings. Amazon is piloting Turntide’s motors in a number 
of our buildings, significantly reducing electricity usage.
ZeroAvia: ZeroAvia is a leader in zero-emission aviation, 
focused on developing hydrogen-electric aviation solutions 
that will progressively enable turbo-propeller aircraft to transport passenger or cargo payloads with zero carbon 
emissions. Amazon is investing in ZeroAvia to support 
decarbonization efforts in the transportation sector.  
 
 
– Christiana Figueres, Former Executive Secretary  
of the United Nations Framework Convention on  
Climate Change and Co-Founder of Global Optimism
 
 
 VISIT THE CLIMATE PLEDGE FUND  
TO LEARN MORE OR MAKE AN INQUIRY
”“The Climate Pledge Fund 
is another important 
example of how the 
collaborative effort of 
The Climate Pledge can 
accelerate the transition 
to a net-zero world. 
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
20 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Nature-based solutions are conservation, restoration, and 
improved land management activities that increase carbon 
storage in areas such as forests, wetlands, peatlands, and 
grasslands. Nature-based solutions provide additional 
benefits to preserve the natural world, such as conserving 
wildlife habitats, protecting biodiversity, improving water 
quality, and reducing flood risk. All of these benefits can 
enhance well-being in communities around the world.
Amazon uses nature-based solutions to mitigate carbon 
emissions outside of our value chain, supplementing 
the carbon-reduction efforts we are driving across our 
business operations. We follow scientific research to fund 
initiatives that are critical to hitting the targets of the 
Paris Agreement and staving off the most catastrophic 
effects of climate change. We also focus on large-scale 
transformations which would be unlikely to occur without 
significant new investment.  
 
Right Now Climate Fund
In 2019, Amazon created the Right Now Climate Fund, 
a $100 million fund to restore and conserve forests, 
wetlands, and grasslands around the world. Through the 
Right Now Climate Fund, Amazon is taking immediate 
action to avoid and remove carbon emissions by 
supporting nature-based climate solutions.  
 
Global Projects 
Amazon identifies initiatives that create real and lasting 
carbon reductions, while also empowering communities, 
enhancing natural environments, and protecting wildlife. 
 
 
 Protecting the World’s Tropical Rainforests
In 2021, Amazon joined the LEAF (Lowering Emissions by 
Accelerating Forest finance) Coalition, a global initiative of 
governments and leading companies that aims to raise at 
least $1 billion to protect the world’s tropical rainforests. 
This ambitious public-private project is designed to 
accelerate climate action by providing financing to help 
countries protect their tropical rainforests. The LEAF 
Coalition is expected to become one of the largest 
initiatives ever to protect tropical forests and support 
sustainable development, and will benefit billions of 
people around the world who depend on rainforests.
To mobilize financing, coalition participants pay for high-
quality emissions reductions from tropical and subtropical 
forest countries, supporting efforts to reduce and end 
deforestation. Along with Amazon and other leading 
companies, the coalition’s initial participants include the 
governments of Norway, the United Kingdom, and the 
United States.  
 Nature-Based 
Solutions
$10 0M
To restore and conserve forests, wetlands,  
and grasslands around the worldINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
21 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Family Forest Carbon Program  
and Forest Carbon Co-Ops
In 2020, Amazon committed $10 million to support two 
programs in collaboration with The Nature Conservancy. 
These programs, the Family Forest Carbon Program and 
the Forest Carbon Co-Op Project, help family forest owners 
sequester carbon across the Blue Ridge to Boreal region 
of the eastern United States. Scientists at The Nature 
Conservancy have identified this network of land as 
disproportionately important for conserving biodiversity 
and mitigating climate change. Across the U.S., more than 
10 million families and individuals own 38% of forest 
lands, making family forest owners critical partners in 
conservation and restoration efforts.
The Family Forest Carbon Program opens up carbon 
credit markets to owners of small forests for the first 
time. Amazon’s support expands this program in the 
Appalachians and other U.S. regions, promoting the design 
of new methods to measure and verify reforestation and 
forest management practices.
The Forest Carbon Co-Op helps owners of mid-sized 
forests use sustainable forest management and 
protection measures to earn income through the carbon 
credit market. Amazon’s grant supports efforts to expand 
the program in climate resilient forests across the Appalachians, develop a scientific approach to regional 
carbon impact measurement, and enhance the project 
verification methodology. 
As the largest funder of these programs, Amazon is 
enabling an estimated net reduction of 18.5 million 
metric tons of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by 2031, 
equivalent to a year of emissions from nearly 4 million 
U.S. cars. Our investment supports conservation and 
sustainable land management of 4 million acres of family 
forests across a 2,000-mile span of the Appalachians and 
beyond. Amazon’s support also generates local economic 
opportunities by creating a new source of income for 
family forest owners and rural communities that taps into 
the carbon storage potential of forests.  
 
Urban Greening in Germany
In 2020, Amazon committed €3.75 million to The Nature 
Conservancy’s Urban Greening program to help cities 
promote biodiversity, reduce urban heat islands, and 
improve stormwater management in the face of climate 
change. With Amazon’s support, the program launched in 
Berlin’s Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf district in 2020 and will 
expand to two additional German cities over five years. The 
goal is to share a guide to urban greening with municipalities 
across Europe by the end of the five-year project.
”“Bringing together 
government and private-
sector resources is a 
necessary step in supporting 
the large-scale efforts that 
must be mobilized to halt 
deforestation and begin 
to restore tropical and 
subtropical forests. 
– John Kerry, U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
22 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020EAmazon is taking a broad, science-based approach to 
reducing carbon emissions and improving efficiency 
across our operations.Sustainable OperationsINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
23 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Shipment
Zero
Shipment Zero is our goal to deliver 50% of Amazon shipments with 
net-zero carbon by 2030. Achieving Shipment Zero means that the 
fulfillment operations we undertake to deliver customer shipments are 
net-zero carbon—from the fulfillment center where an item is picked 
off the shelf, to the materials used to package the item, and the mode 
of transportation that gets the package to the customer’s door. 
Fulfillment Facilities
Shipment Zero starts with our world-class fulfillment 
facilities where we stock items, process orders, and prepare 
shipments for delivery to customers. A Shipment Zero 
order will travel through facilities powered by 100% clean 
energy from wind and solar projects that are dedicated to 
serving Amazon’s electricity needs. As of June 2021, more 
than 90 of our fulfillment facilities are powered by on-site 
rooftop solar installations, which generate as much as 
80% of a single facility’s annual energy needs. We are also 
working to optimize energy use from building operations, 
using innovative robotics and conveyance systems 
to minimize the energy needed to move shipments 
throughout our facilities.
Learn more about our progress on  
renewable energy on page 26. INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
24 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Packaging
A Shipment Zero order will ship without added Amazon 
packaging or in carbon neutral packaging. Thousands 
of products already qualify for delivery without 
additional Amazon boxes or packing materials through 
our Frustration-Free Packaging (FFP) programs, which 
incentivize manufacturers to develop more sustainable 
packaging solutions for online fulfillment. We are 
also developing new ways to deliver customer orders 
packaging-free. In more than 100 cities across India, for 
example, Amazon orders ship in their original packaging 
and are transported in protective containers that 
delivery drivers can reuse.Learn more about our progress  
on transportation on page 32. 
Learn more about our progress  
on sustainable packaging on page 45. 
Transportation
A Shipment Zero order will be transported in an electric 
delivery vehicle, or by a delivery associate on foot or 
on a bicycle. We are adopting electric and alternative 
delivery solutions across our network, and have made 
major investments in vehicle electrification, from 
the delivery vehicles themselves, to the charging 
infrastructure that powers the vehicles, to the renewable 
energy projects that produce clean energy. In 2020, we 
delivered more than 20 million packages using electric 
vehicles to customers across North America and Europe. 
We also leverage innovative technology to maximize 
efficiency on the road and reduce delivery distances 
by placing delivery stations close to large Amazon 
customer populations.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
25 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020As part of our goal to reach net-zero carbon by 2040, 
Amazon is on a path to powering our operations with 
100% renewable energy by 2025—five years ahead of our 
original target of 2030. In 2020, we became the world’s 
largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy, reaching 
65% renewable energy across our business. 
As of June 2021, Amazon has 232 solar and wind projects 
across the globe. These projects have a combined capacity 
to generate 10,000 megawatts (MW) and deliver 27 million 
megawatt hours (MWh) of energy annually. These projects 
helped power the 24 million MWh of electricity consumed 
by Amazon in 2020 and led to a 4% reduction in our carbon 
emissions from purchased electricity from 2019 to 2020.
Scaling up the use of renewable energy is central to 
Amazon’s strategy to decarbonize our operations. Clean 
energy sources, such as wind and solar, lessen Amazon’s 
reliance on fossil fuels to power our operations and 
the services we provide to customers. We procure new 
renewable energy beyond the existing grid mix through 
off-site contracts for wind and solar, on-site rooftop solar 
installations, and green tariffs with local utilities that result 
in new projects being added to the grid. Accounting for the Energy  
Consumed by Amazon Devices
In 2020, Amazon announced an ambitious goal to procure 
new renewable energy equal to the amount of energy 
consumed by all Amazon devices, starting with Echo 
devices. To understand what this goal should encompass, 
we model and measure the energy consumed by our 
devices in different types of use, then project their total 
average global annual electricity consumption. We have 
contracted the first new wind and solar farms to support 
this goal, which are currently under construction and are 
expected to begin operating in 2022-2023. Until then, we 
are investing in renewable energy certificates that match 
the quantity of electricity used by every customer’s Echo 
device, based on the amount of energy we expect those 
new projects to generate. 
 
 
 
 Renewable  
Energy
READ OUR 2020 RENEWABLE ENERGY ASSURANCE 
STATEMENT  FROM OUR THIRD-PARTY AUDITOR, APEXLEARN MORE ABOUT OUR APPROACH IN OUR  
RENEWABLE ENERGY METHODOLOGY
Renewable energy across  
our business in 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
65%
26 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020As of June 2021, Amazon’s largest 
renewable energy investment is a wind 
project in the Netherlands. Scheduled 
for operation by 2024, this offshore 
wind farm will have an overall capacity 
of 759 MW. Amazon is purchasing 
more than half of that capacity—a 
total of 380 MW—to power our 
operations in Europe.
 A solar farm in Pittsylvania County, 
Virginia, will power Amazon’s new 
headquarters in Arlington and other 
Amazon operations in the region, 
including Whole Foods Market stores 
and Amazon fulfillment centers. 
Amazon is sharing the project with 
Arlington County through a public-
private partnership. Amazon has 
contracted 82 MW of the new 120-
MW solar farm and Arlington County 
will take the remainder of the energy 
generated from this project, which is 
planned for completion by the first 
quarter of 2022.Our first operational off-site project 
in Europe is the Alcalá de Guadaíra 
solar park in Spain. This solar project 
provides 149 MW of renewable energy 
for Amazon logistics facilities and AWS 
data centers in Spain, equivalent to the 
energy needed to supply more than 
30,000 Spanish homes.
Our first renewable energy project 
in Singapore is a 62-MW system of 
ground-mounted solar panels. This 
system allows for the solar panels to 
be optimally positioned to capture 
sun exposure as weather conditions 
change. Upon its completion in 2022, 
the project is expected to generate 
80,000 MWh of clean energy annually, 
enough to power more than 10,000 
homes in Singapore. In 2019, we installed the largest 
rooftop solar array in the state of 
Colorado at an Amazon fulfillment 
center in Thornton. The solar array 
comprises more than 17,000 panels 
spanning 19 acres, approximately 
the size of 14 football fields. The 
6-MW system generates enough 
energy to provide up to 45% of the 
855,000-square-foot facility’s annual 
energy needs.
 In 2020, we unveiled Amazon’s largest 
solar rooftop installation in Europe at a 
fulfillment center in the UK. The facility 
is outfitted with more than 11,500 
solar panels, which generate enough 
electricity to power the equivalent of 
700 homes in the UK for one year.
 Around the Globe
Learn more about some of Amazon’s 
renewable energy projects around the globe:
EXPLORE OUR FULL LIST OF  
PROJECTS BY GEOGRAPHY ON  
OUR WEBSITEINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
27 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Amazon operates hundreds of world-class facilities in cities 
across the globe that serve our customers and support our 
local communities. We are designing buildings that help 
lead the industry toward net-zero carbon, while improving 
the resource efficiency of our facilities and prioritizing the 
health and wellness of our building occupants.  
 
Decarbonizing Our Buildings
Amazon is working to reduce the carbon emissions 
associated with our buildings, from the carbon embodied 
in construction materials, to the operational emissions 
from powering our activities. In 2020, we launched an 
in-depth study of our operations facilities to examine the 
energy intensity of our buildings and identify ways to 
reduce carbon through energy efficiency enhancements, 
new technologies, and sustainable building materials. We 
have started applying these insights across building types 
and are incorporating best practices into future building 
development plans.  
 
The World’s First Net-Zero Carbon Arena
In 2020, Amazon secured the naming rights to  
Climate Pledge Arena, slated to become the first net-zero 
carbon certified arena in the world. In November, the 
arena submitted its net-zero carbon registration to the 
International Living Future Institute, an industry leader in 
sustainable building practices. Construction plans for the 
arena preserve the building’s existing roof and expand the 
underground structure to reduce the embodied energy 
use typical of new construction. The arena will feature all-
electric operations systems powered by 100% renewable 
electricity from on-site solar panels and off-site renewable 
energy projects. Events at the arena will be made fully net-
zero carbon by investing in forestry projects that sequester 
any remaining carbon emissions from the arena’s operations 
through nature-based solutions. Additional commitments 
include eliminating single-use plastics, conserving water, 
and producing zero waste from the arena’s operations.  
  
Reducing Carbon at Arlington HQ 
Plans for our second headquarters in Arlington, Virginia, 
feature a range of carbon reduction solutions and energy 
efficiency enhancements, including highly efficient 
building systems, high-efficiency lighting with advanced 
controls, and a high-performing building envelope that 
facilitates climate control. All-electric central heating and 
cooling systems will eliminate on-site combustion for 
heating and domestic hot water, and a nearby solar farm 
will power the campus with 100% renewable energy. 
The buildings will incorporate locally sourced materials, 
to reduce the carbon impact of material transportation, 
and low-carbon materials, including low-carbon concrete Our Buildings
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
28 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020supplemented with Carbon Cure technology, a Climate 
Pledge Fund investment.
Buildings across our Arlington HQ are designed to 
achieve LEEDv4 Platinum certification, the highest 
green building certification by the U.S. Green Building 
Council. Our plans support the local community with five 
acres of landscaped public open space, new protected 
bike lanes, and urban design features that promote 
pedestrian connections and safety. Other human-centric 
design features include enhanced ventilation, increased 
access to daylight, and the Helix—an alternative work 
environment to support human connection with 
nature. The design of our Arlington HQ promotes 
wellness, collaboration, and connections to nature for 
the neighborhood and the 25,000 employees who will 
occupy the Arlington headquarters by 2025.  
 
Corporate Offices 
Amazon’s global corporate offices are located in vibrant 
communities and urban hubs. Many of our corporate 
buildings offer plazas and open green spaces for 
communal and public use. Even more feature green roofs 
and other green infrastructure that provide outdoor 
amenity space while supporting ecological functions 
like green stormwater management. The interiors 
integrate biophilic design concepts, such as green walls 
and locally sourced woods, along with energy-efficient 
lighting, composting and recycling, and amenity spaces 
for employee wellness. Many of our buildings also offer 
plug-in electric vehicle charging stations, bike parking, and showers to encourage low-carbon transportation for 
employees and visitors.
Our flagship Seattle campus features some of our most 
innovative sustainable design practices. A district energy 
system below ground heats many of our buildings in the 
Denny Triangle neighborhood using waste heat generated 
from a neighboring data center. Above ground, employees 
and visitors can enjoy The Spheres, an alternative workplace 
and indoor plant conservatory, with 40,000 plants from 
the cloud forest regions of more than 30 countries, and a 
4,000-square-foot green wall. Many of our Seattle office 
towers are certified LEED Gold, incorporating holistic 
sustainability measures for energy and water conservation, 
improved indoor environmental quality, and healthy 
material selection.
On the other side of the world, our offices in Munich are 
certified Gold for environmental design by the German 
Sustainable Building Council based on their energy-
efficient interiors and use of sustainable building materials. 
In Luxembourg, efficient chillers and an advanced building 
management system cut energy costs, while rooftop 
beehives supply honey, and food is served in compostable 
and biodegradable containers.  
 
100% Renewable energy  
powering our Arlington HQ
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
29 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020 
 
Operations Facilities 
Amazon’s operations facilities include a variety of building 
types and sizes where we process orders for our customers. 
To minimize energy use, these facilities feature state-of-
the-art technology and are designed with efficient building 
systems. We are expanding our use of building control 
system technology and real-time data analytics to optimize 
our heating and cooling systems for occupant comfort 
while operating as efficiently as possible. Through building 
retrofits and energy studies, we are continuously improving 
and optimizing the efficiency of our operations, uncovering 
savings opportunities, and driving carbon out of our 
fulfillment operations.
Many of our operations facilities throughout the U.S., 
Europe, and India are powered by on-site solar, where a 
rooftop installation can power up to 80% of a facility’s 
energy use. As of June 2021, we have more than 90 
rooftop solar installations on operations facilities around 
the world and we continue to scale this program globally.  
 
Amazon Physical Stores
Amazon Physical Stores provide a range of retail and 
grocery shopping experiences for our customers. Our 
physical stores use highly efficient LED lighting, with 
energy-reducing lighting controls, and incorporate natural daylighting techniques, such as skylights and large windows. 
We also utilize energy-efficient heating and cooling systems 
to reduce energy consumption. Across our grocery channels, 
we are replacing conventional refrigerants with natural 
alternatives that have a lower ozone depletion and global 
warming potential. In many of our new physical stores, 
we are increasing our use of doored cases for refrigerated 
products, enhancing energy efficiency and maintaining 
product quality for longer durations.
More than 30 of our Whole Foods Market stores already use 
refrigerants with low global warming potential and more 
than 100 facilities are adopting an alternative refrigerant 
from Honeywell. Among them is a flagship location in 
Brooklyn, New York, where state-of-the-art refrigeration 
and energy systems make the store approximately 60% 
more efficient than the average grocery store. Locations 
near San Francisco use advanced cloud computing, 
predictive analytics, and thermal energy storage to 
modulate their refrigeration systems during peak energy 
use. Whole Foods Market is a founding member of the 
North American Sustainable Refrigeration Council and a 
founding partner of the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s GreenChill program, which helps food retailers 
transition to alternative refrigerants, reduce refrigerant 
charge sizes, eliminate leaks, and adopt green refrigeration 
technologies.  
 
Data Centers
AWS is continuously working to increase the efficiency of our 
facilities, and our scale allows us to achieve higher resource 
utilization and efficiency than typical on-premises data 
centers. When possible, we incorporate direct evaporative 
technology for cooling our data centers, reducing energy Solar Rooftops in India 
Our operations teams in India began installing solar panels on 
buildings in 2017. As of June 2021, eight fulfillment centers 
and five sortation centers together produce a total of 12 MW 
of solar energy to power operations across facilities in Delhi, 
Hyderabad, Bangalore, Kolkata, and Mumbai.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
30 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020“
“Recycling Heat from an  
AWS Data Center in Ireland
In Ireland, AWS is collaborating with the City of Dublin, the 
South Dublin County Council, and Fortum, a Finnish energy 
supply company, to bring district heating to South Dublin. By 
the end of 2021, recycled heat from an AWS data center will 
provide a low-carbon, low-cost source of heat for public sector, 
residential, and commercial customers in the Dublin suburb of 
Tallaght. This custom-built district heating scheme—the first 
of its kind in Ireland—helps support the country’s renewable 
energy targets. 
 This project will 
meaningfully contribute 
to helping Ireland achieve 
its 2030 sustainability 
targets, and we look 
forward to future 
collaborations with A WS 
towards a low-carbon 
future in South Dublin. 
– Eddie Conroy, Architect for the  
 South Dublin County Council
and water consumption. During cooler months, outside air is 
directly supplied to the data center without using any water.
During the hottest months of the year, outside air is cooled 
through an evaporative process using water before being 
pushed into the server rooms, and we have optimized our 
cooling systems to minimize water usage. AWS has also 
demonstrated our commitment to water stewardship by 
using reclaimed or recycled water instead of potable water 
in multiple regions, and we are working with local utilities to 
expand the use of reclaimed water.
We are also working to reduce the embodied carbon of 
new data centers. Embodied carbon is the carbon emitted 
during the extraction, manufacturing, and transportation 
of materials to the data center construction site. It is 
dispersed in the atmosphere before the data center 
is operational. We are starting by reducing embodied 
carbon in the primary structural materials used in our 
data centers, concrete and steel. By reducing the cement 
content in our concrete and sourcing steel from electric 
arc furnace mills, we can reduce the embodied carbon in 
the structure of our data centers by at least 20%. These 
requirements are already included in projects in Dublin, 
Singapore, and San Francisco, and will be standard in our 
AWS-operated data centers by the end of 2021.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
31 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Transportation is a major component of Amazon’s 
business operations and a key part of our plan to 
reach net-zero carbon by 2040. We are optimizing 
and transforming our transportation network through 
technological innovations, efficiency enhancements, and 
alternative solutions that allow us to deliver packages to 
our customers more sustainably. 
 
Electrifying Our Delivery Fleets
In 2019, Amazon ordered 100,000 custom electric 
delivery vehicles from Rivian—the largest order ever of 
electric delivery vehicles. We rolled out the first of these 
vehicles in Los Angeles in February 2021 and will expand 
to neighborhoods in up to 15 additional U.S. cities by 
the end of the year. We plan to have 10,000 vehicles 
on the road as early as 2022 and all 100,000 vehicles 
deployed by 2030. One of the fastest-growing modern 
commercial electrification programs, this initiative is 
projected to save millions of metric tons of carbon per 
year once fully deployed. 
In addition to these custom electric delivery vehicles, 
Amazon already operates thousands of electric vehicles 
worldwide, delivering more than 20 million packages in 
electric vehicles to customers across North America and 
Europe in 2020. We expanded our European electric 
delivery fleet with an order for 1,800 electric vans from 
Mercedes-Benz, a signatory of The Climate Pledge. In 
India, we are adding 10,000 electric vehicles to our existing 
fleet by 2025, including two-wheeler, three-wheeler, and 
four-wheeler vehicles designed and manufactured by local 
manufacturers. Hundreds of these vehicles are now on 
the road, operated by Amazon India’s network of Delivery 
Service Partners in more than 20 cities across the country. 
As we expand our electric delivery fleet worldwide, we 
are building the infrastructure to support our vehicles and 
drivers. We are retrofitting existing facilities with charging technology and adding thousands of charging stations 
across hundreds of facilities for our partners to use in 
North America and Europe. More than 50 Amazon delivery 
stations across North America and Europe are equipped 
for electric vehicle usage, and all new delivery stations are 
designed with the physical layout and electrical capacity 
to meet the needs of our current and future electric 
delivery fleets. These facilities will be able to support 
parking and charging at night and deliveries during the day, 
including same-day deliveries and deliveries to lockers and 
businesses. We are also partnering with publicly accessible 
charging networks to allow drivers to top off with clean 
electricity when traveling outside of our charging network.
 
Alternative Delivery Methods
We use a range of alternative delivery methods to increase 
efficiency and reduce emissions on last mile routes to 
our customers’ doorsteps. In dense, urban centers like 
New York City, Paris, and Tokyo, we deliver packages 
by bicycle and on foot, using push walkers. Our bicycle 
fleet includes traditional bicycles and pedal-assist electric 
bikes connected to cargo trailers that can carry up to 45 
packages. We operate more than 300 e-cargo bikes to 
make deliveries from Whole Foods Market locations to 
customers in Manhattan and Williamsburg, New York. In Transportation
20 million
Packages delivered in electric 
vehicles to customers across  
North America and Europe in 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
32 Amazon Sustainability Report | 20202021, we are expanding our micro-mobility fleet across 20 
European locations to comprise more than 500 vehicles, 
including e-cargo bikes, electric scooters, and walkers. 
We are also developing fully autonomous delivery 
innovations that can be powered by clean electricity. 
Amazon Scout and Prime Air drones are electrically-
powered autonomous devices that can deliver packages to 
customers without the need for a delivery vehicle. These 
devices are currently being designed and tested to be able 
to transport small packages quickly, safely, and sustainably.  
 
Testing New Solutions in Freight  
and Air Transport
Unlike last mile delivery, long-distance transport has few 
low-carbon technologies available. We are exploring, 
testing, and investing in sustainable innovations in freight 
and air transport to reduce emissions on our longest 
routes. We also use data and algorithms to consolidate 
as many shipments as possible onto a single vehicle or 
plane, and we analyze which items are ordered most 
frequently by location to minimize long-distance deliveries. 
By boosting efficiency across our network, we can put 
fewer vehicles and planes into service, reducing the carbon 
intensity of each package.  
 
Freight Transport 
We are investing in a variety of solutions to decarbonize 
our freight transportation network. In 2020, we ordered 
battery electric trucks from Lion Electric, and in 2021, we 
began testing hydrogen-powered trucks. We also launched 
compressed natural gas (CNG) tractors, which are fueled 
by renewable natural gas sourced from landfills and dairy 
farms. We plan to operate more than 2,700 of these 
tractors in North America, the UK, Germany, and France by 
the end of 2021. These initial investments allow us to test 
the performance of different sustainable technologies and 
determine which solutions could be most effectively scaled 
across our network.
While we work to adopt the most efficient, cutting-edge 
vehicle technologies, we are also maximizing efficiency in 
our existing fleets. Across North America and Europe, our 
fleet includes trailers in different sizes that are equipped 
with aerodynamic skirts, mud flaps, and automatic tire inflation systems. These features save an average of 100 
gallons of diesel fuel per vehicle annually. In the UK, we use 
double-deck trailers that allow us to double the capacity 
of a normal trailer and reduce the number of trucks on 
the road. We are also expanding multimodal transport 
to reduce the emissions from road travel. In Europe, we 
predominantly use rail for inventory transfers between 
fulfillment centers and have expanded to short trips by sea 
and waterways.  
 
Air Transport
To reduce the carbon emissions of air transport, we are 
investing in sustainable aviation fuels, which are derived from 
renewable resources and generate fewer carbon emissions 
than standard aviation fuel. In 2020, Amazon Air secured 
6 million gallons of sustainable aviation fuel, signaling our ”“The partnership between 
Amazon India and 
Mahindra Electric is 
a welcome step which 
reaffirms India’s 
significant progress in 
the e-mobility industry, 
and highlights the 
role of auto makers 
and e-commerce 
companies to achieve 
our environmental 
sustainability goals.  
–  Shri Nitin Gadkari, Minister of Road Transport and Highways, 
Government of IndiaINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
33 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020demand for low-carbon aviation fuel alternatives. Since then, 
this fuel has been used to power some flights on the Amazon 
Air network in the U.S., reducing our carbon emissions in flight 
up to 20% over standard aviation fuel when this alternative 
is utilized. Most of our aircraft also feature design innovations 
like winglets, which improve fuel efficiency by reducing drag. 
On the ground, we use cutting-edge electric equipment to 
service our planes, and we are working to equip air cargo 
facilities with rooftop solar panels, to generate on-site 
renewable energy.
We are also investing in emerging sustainable aviation 
technologies through The Climate Pledge Fund. ZeroAvia, a 
Climate Pledge Fund recipient, develops hydrogen-electric 
aviation solutions that will progressively enable turbo-
propeller aircraft to transport passenger or cargo payloads 
with zero carbon emissions. The Climate Pledge Fund is also 
investing in Infinium, a company that focuses on converting 
carbon dioxide and hydrogen feedstock into net-zero carbon 
fuels for use in today’s air transport, marine freight, and heavy 
truck fleets. With support from The Climate Pledge Fund, 
these solutions will help Amazon transition away from fossil 
fuels across our transportation network.  
 
Partnering with Experts and Industry
Transforming the transportation industry from one that 
uses fossil fuels to one based on clean energy requires cross-sector stakeholder engagement among vehicle 
manufacturers, battery and component suppliers, state and 
local policymakers, fleet operators, and utilities. Amazon is 
working with industry experts and organizations to advance 
sustainability through collaboration and innovation in the 
transportation and logistics industries.
In 2020, Amazon partnered with Ceres and other fleet 
operators to launch the Corporate Electric Vehicle Alliance, 
bringing together companies that work to accelerate the 
transition to electric vehicles. This alliance helps aggregate 
corporate demand for transportation electrification, while also 
providing a platform to coordinate support for policies that 
enable fleet electrification. In 2021, members of the alliance 
published a comprehensive report on ways that utilities, 
regulators, and policymakers can enable fleet operators 
to electrify commercial transportation and reduce carbon 
emissions.
In 2017, Amazon signed the Sustainable Fuel Buyers’ 
Principles developed by the nonprofit Business for Social 
Responsibility and its Future of Fuels working group. These 
principles provide a framework to catalyze the transition to 
a sustainable road freight transportation system. Amazon 
was one of 18 companies to sign the Buyer’s Principles, 
demonstrating our commitment to accelerate the transition 
to low-carbon commercial transportation solutions. 
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
34 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020More than 7,500 Amazonians have joined together as 
Sustainability Ambassadors—a grassroots organization 
of sustainability-minded employees working to expand 
the efforts of our global teams that manage Amazon’s 
environmental and social impacts. Since launching in 2017, 
the Sustainability Ambassadors program has transformed 
into a collaborative community of more than 450 chapters 
across the world, and continues to grow.
Ambassadors raise awareness of sustainability as a practice 
for all Amazonians by delivering environmental education 
through on-site and virtual events. They lead projects 
and develop initiatives on Amazon campuses and across 
communities to help fellow Amazonians reduce their 
environmental impact at home or at work. The program 
also provides a community for sharing best practices 
among teams in different settings and locations. 
Operations Ambassadors
Ambassadors in our operations organization focus on 
sustainability projects that help sites reduce carbon 
and operational waste. One example comes from an 
Ambassador team in Poland, where members redesigned 
the waste segregation process in their fulfillment center, 
improving waste recycling rates by more than 90%. At 
a fulfillment center in France, team members installed a 
food waste composter for associates to use at the end of 
their break times, generating compost that our associates 
are able to take home for their gardens. This solution 
is now being tested for adoption across our fulfillment 
centers in Canada. An Ambassador team in Italy identified 
the challenge of recycling personal protective equipment 
used to keep employees safe during the COVID-19 
pandemic. The team found a waste services provider and 
set up a process to collect the used equipment, turning 
hard hats, gloves, and safety shoes into materials used 
for soundproofing walls and soft flooring for children’s 
play areas.
 
 Sustainability  
Ambassadors
Amazon Sustainability Ambassadors 
around the globe as of June 20217,50 0
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
35 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Corporate Ambassadors
Ambassadors in our corporate offices also have a unique 
opportunity to launch ideas with data-driven analysis 
using Amazon technology. After auditing waste at our 
global headquarters in Seattle, Ambassadors developed 
a proposal to improve waste sorting using DeepLens—a 
deep learning-enabled video camera from AWS. A team of 
Amazon employees built a dataset and model that used 
DeepLens’ object detection capabilities to identify the 
waste items being discarded and deploy built-in audio to 
help people identify the correct bin to use for a given item.  
 Sustainability Summit
In 2020, Sustainability Ambassadors organized the first 
Inside Sustainability Summit—a virtual educational event 
available to all Amazonians to learn more about Amazon’s 
sustainability programs and partnerships. The event drew 
12,500 registrations across 25 virtual sessions, from 
Amazonians in 39 countries. The summit also featured a 
crowdsourcing challenge for Amazon employees to present 
innovative ideas on sustainability. The winning submission 
identified strategic partnerships to reduce emissions in 
our supply chain and contribute to Amazon’s goal of 
achieving net-zero carbon by 2040. With the support of 
senior management mentorship, this winning project is 
being rolled out across Europe in 2021, demonstrating 
how Sustainability Ambassadors contribute to Amazon’s 
broader sustainability goals.
 
–  Maxim B., Amazon Workplace Health  
     and Safety Manager, Vercelli, Italy”“I have always believed in 
great challenges, in life 
and at work. I was 
upset that safety 
shoes were [being] 
thrown away. At 
Amazon, we found 
a way to recycle 
them, so that our 
shoes became 
floors for children’s 
playgrounds. 
Alone we cannot 
do anything, but 
together we can 
change the world.  
 
  
 
 INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
36 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020AWS is focused on efficiency and continuous innovation 
across our global infrastructure, as we continue on our 
path to powering our operations with 100% renewable 
energy by 2025.Sustainability in the Cloud
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
37 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Cloud Efficiency
Climate Neutral Data Centre Pact
In 2021, AWS joined the data center industry in Europe to 
create the Climate Neutral Data Centre Pact, an industry 
commitment to proactively lead the transition to a climate 
neutral economy. The Pact establishes a Self-Regulatory 
Initiative which was developed in co-operation with the 
European Commission. It supports both the European Green 
Deal, which aims to make Europe the world’s first climate 
neutral continent by 2050, and the European Data Strategy by 
making EU data centers climate neutral by 2030. Signatories 
of the Pact commit to meeting ambitious goals to facilitate 
Europe’s essential transition to a greener economy by agreeing 
to prove energy efficiency with measurable targets, purchase 
100% renewable energy, prioritize water conservation, reuse 
and repair servers, and look for ways to recycle heat. AWS is 
proud to join the Pact. We know that by working together, we 
can raise the bar for data centers and help support the goals of 
the European Green Deal.AWS has always been focused on improving efficiency in 
every aspect of our infrastructure. From the highly available 
infrastructure that powers our servers, to techniques we 
use to cool our data centers, and the innovative server 
designs that deliver AWS services to our customers—energy 
efficiency is a primary goal of our global infrastructure. 
Through our scale and focus on innovation, we can achieve 
higher resource utilization and energy efficiency than is 
possible for the typical on-premises data center, and we are 
continuously working on ways to do more.
The results of a study by 451 Research show that AWS’s 
infrastructure is 3.6 times more energy efficient than the 
median of U.S. enterprise data centers surveyed. More than 
two-thirds of this advantage is attributable to the combination 
of a more energy efficient server population and much higher 
server utilization. AWS data centers are also more energy-
efficient than enterprise sites due to comprehensive efficiency 
programs that touch every facet of the facility. 
For example, we have improved power efficiency and 
availability by removing the central Uninterruptible Power 
Supply (UPS) from our data center design and integrating 
small battery packs and custom power supplies into our 
racks. These changes combined reduce energy conversion 
loss by about 35%. 
AWS also continues to increase the efficiency of the 
custom hardware and software we design to deliver AWS 
services. Graviton2 is AWS’s most power-efficient processor, 
providing better performance per watt than any other 
processor we currently use. With the world’s increasing 
need for compute and other IT infrastructure, continually 
innovating at the chip level is critical to ensuring we can 
sustainably power the workloads of the future.
AWS also works closely with our customers to accelerate 
mutually shared sustainability goals. Customers such as INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
38 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020w
AWS Clean Energy Accelerator for Startups
Addressing climate change requires innovation across the 
world, across industries, and across startups and multi-national 
corporations. From distributed energy and storage solutions, 
to efficiency and optimization software—clean technology 
investment and innovation is surging. To help foster the rapid 
growth of clean tech innovations, AWS launched the  
AWS Clean Energy Accelerator in 2021. The program seeks 
to help clean energy startups accelerate their impact, access 
additional resources, and expand their reach. 
The AWS Clean Energy Accelerator was developed in 
collaboration with Freshwater Advisors, a U.S.-based innovation 
consultancy and venture catalyst. Together with Freshwater 
Advisors, AWS selected 10 startups to participate in the 
five-week accelerator in 2021. The program offers technical, 
business, and go-to-market mentorship from AWS clean energy 
experts, as well as collaboration opportunities with AWS energy 
customers and members of Amazon Partner Network (APN) 
looking for clean energy solutions. Acciona, BP, Engie, and Shell are leveraging AWS to drive 
digital innovation, including data migration and application 
modernization to cloud-native technologies, and to 
collaborate on artificial intelligence and machine learning 
use cases. These customers help accelerate Amazon’s 
journey to meet our Climate Pledge goal by providing 
reliable, flexible solar and wind energy to power our 
operations with 100% renewable energy.
 
 
3.6x
AWS’s infrastructure is 3.6 times more  
energy-efficient than the median of U.S. 
enterprise data centers surveyed
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
39 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Water  
Stewardship
AWS has multiple initiatives underway to use water more 
efficiently and use less potable (drinking) water to cool 
our data centers. AWS develops our water-use strategy 
by evaluating climate patterns for each AWS Region, local 
water management and availability, and the opportunity 
to conserve drinking water sources. Taking a holistic 
approach, we assess both the water and energy usage 
of each potential cooling solution to select the most 
efficient method.  
 
Evaporative Cooling
When possible, AWS incorporates direct evaporative 
technology to cool our data centers, reducing energy and 
water consumption. During cooler months, outside air is 
supplied directly to the data center without using any water. 
During the hottest months of the year, outside air is cooled 
through an evaporative process using water before being 
pushed into the server rooms, and we have optimized these 
cooling systems to minimize water usage. AWS is constantly 
innovating the design of our cooling systems to further 
reduce water use, and we adapt to changing weather 
conditions based on real-time sensor data.  
 
Recycled Water
To help conserve local drinking water sources, AWS is 
expanding our use of non-potable water for cooling 
purposes. In Northern Virginia, AWS was the first data 
center operator to be approved to use recycled water with 
direct evaporative cooling technology. We partnered with 
Loudoun Water to demonstrate the benefits of recycled 
water for industrial cooling applications and shared our 
operational best practices for using recycled water in our data centers. In the AWS U.S. West (Oregon) Region, we 
partnered with a local utility to use non-potable water for 
multiple data centers, and in Northern California, we are 
retrofitting AWS data centers to use recycled water.
AWS is working with local utilities to expand distribution 
infrastructure and drive faster implementation and 
adoption of recycled water for data center cooling 
applications, in order to reduce our usage of potable water.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
40 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Water Conservation in Sweden 
AWS  is working with the Swedish municipality of Katrineholm 
and local water supply company Sörmland Vatten to support 
a vital upgrade of the town’s storm water infrastructure, 
creating a new wetland just outside of Katrineholm in Stora 
Djulö. The new wetland and storm water infrastructure 
improvement project is supported by a $4 million contribution 
from AWS as part of our long-term commitment to 
sustainability. The project is due for completion in 2026 
and will help reduce flooding, improve water quality and 
biodiversity, and provide citizens with a new recreational space 
for outdoor activities, such as hiking, biking, and birdwatching. 
The water conservation project will also form part of a long-
term solution for sustainable surface water management for 
the Katrineholm Logistics Center industrial park, north east of 
Katrineholm. On-Site Water Treatment
AWS is implementing on-site modular water treatment 
systems in multiple regions. As water is cycled through 
evaporative cooling units, minerals build up as water 
evaporates, eventually reaching a level of concentration 
that requires replacement with fresh water. On-site water 
treatment allows us to remove scale-forming minerals 
and reuse water for more cycles. Increasing our “cycles of 
concentration” allows us to continue to reduce the water 
intake needed to cool our data centers.  
 
Water Efficiency Metrics
In each infrastructure region where we use water for 
cooling, AWS has developed water efficiency metrics 
to determine and monitor optimal water use for each 
AWS Region, and we employ a data-driven approach to 
select the most effective water reduction technologies. 
Water metrics from each AWS Region help us evaluate 
technologies and understand their long-term impacts 
on our water usage, in order to increase efficiency as our 
infrastructure grows and we expand to new regions.
We are partnering with utilities to connect directly to utility 
water meters, and we are also installing our own meters to 
track real-time water usage to provide consistent data for 
our operations and sustainability teams. By analyzing this 
data, AWS can identify opportunities to reduce water usage 
and rapidly make operational changes, rather than waiting 
for bills or usage reports.Community Water Programs
Along with reducing our water usage, AWS looks for 
opportunities to return water to the community. In our 
U.S. West (Oregon) Region, for example, we partnered 
with the City of Umatilla and the West Extension Irrigation 
District to deliver water to farmers. Since our cooling 
water is not dirty, instead of sending it to a wastewater 
treatment plant, we deliver it to the local community to 
be repurposed for irrigation. In our U.S. West (Oregon) 
Region, we reuse 96% of cooling water generated from 
our data centers.
AWS is also working on community water programs all 
around the world. We are partnering with Water.org and 
WaterAid in India and Indonesia, where water filtration 
plants, rainwater harvesting systems, and groundwater 
recharge projects will bring a combined 250 million 
gallons of water per year to 165,000 people. We are also 
funding watershed restoration efforts with The Nature 
Conservancy in Cape Town and São Paulo that will 
increase water supply availability by 41 million gallons  
per year.How Using Renewable Energy Also Saves Water 
Shifting to renewable energy has environmental benefits 
beyond lowering carbon emissions. According to the 
International Energy Agency, the energy sector is responsible for 
10% of global water withdrawals, used for operating thermal 
power plants and producing fuels. Unlike thermal power plants, 
wind and solar plants do not require large amounts of water 
to operate. In 2020, Amazon’s renewable energy generation 
helped to avoid the withdrawal of about 480 billion liters of 
water—enough to supply 1 million American households or fill 
up 190,000 Olympic-sized swimming pools each year.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
41 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Amazon  
Sustainability  
Data Initiative
The Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (ASDI) seeks 
to accelerate sustainability research and innovation by 
minimizing the cost and time required to acquire and 
analyze large sustainability datasets. ASDI works with 
scientific organizations to identify, host, and deploy key 
datasets on the AWS Cloud, including weather observations, 
weather forecasts, climate projection data, satellite imagery, 
hydrological data, air quality data, and ocean forecast data. 
Our approach allows sustainability researchers to analyze 
massive amounts of data in mere minutes, regardless of 
where they are in the world or how much local storage 
space or computing capacity they can access. These 
datasets are publicly available to anyone. In addition, ASDI 
provides cloud grants to those interested in exploring the 
use of AWS’ technology and scalable infrastructure to solve 
big, long-term sustainability challenges with this data.  
 
Innovating for Sustainability in the Cloud
From university researchers to local governments, federal 
agencies to private startups, organizations leverage ASDI 
to better understand the long-term opportunities to 
address major challenges like climate change. Below are 
some examples of how AWS customers are innovating for 
sustainability . 
Digital Earth Africa (DE Africa) is helping data users across the 
African continent gain fast access to petabytes of decision-
ready satellite data. The project enables African nations to 
track changes across the continent in unprecedented detail by making Earth observation data more easily accessible. 
This will provide valuable insights for better decision-making 
around prevention and planning for flooding, droughts, soil 
and coastal erosion, agriculture, forest-cover, land use and 
land cover change, water availability and quality, and changes 
to human settlements.
AWS and the Group on Earth Observations (GEO) jointly 
awarded $1.5 million worth of cloud services to 21 projects 
from 17 developing countries through the Earth Observation 
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
42 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020AWS and the Group on Earth Observations 
(GEO) jointly awarded $1.5 million worth 
of cloud services to 21 projects from 17 
developing countries through the Earth 
Observation Cloud Credits Programme.Cloud Credits Programme. These grants encourage the use 
of Earth observations to support sustainable environmental 
development, including the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals, the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk 
Reduction, and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
OpenAQ is empowering communities around the globe to 
clean their air by harmonizing, sharing, and using open air-
quality data. Hosted on AWS, the OpenAQ platform is playing 
a key role in helping understand how air quality is being 
impacted by COVID-19.
After extreme weather events—such as hurricanes, tornadoes, 
and floods—NOAA’s Emergency Response Imagery , hosted 
on AWS, provides timely access to baseline and post-event 
remote sensing imagery over those affected areas. This 
capability is critical to guiding action and ensuring that lives 
and property are protected. Such imagery provides a cost-
effective way to better understand the damage sustained to 
both property and the environment.
Building upon modern modeling techniques validated through 
peer-review science, the First Street Foundation is defining 
America’s flood risk by calculating the past, present, and future 
flood risk of every home and property in the contiguous 
United States. The data is available free of charge to anyone.
$1.5MINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
43 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Amazon is minimizing waste, increasing recycling, and 
providing options for our customers to reuse, repair, 
and recycle their products. We are working to send less 
material to the landfill and more back into the circular 
economy loop.Circular Economy
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
44 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Amazon customers want right-sized, recyclable packaging 
that minimizes waste and ensures damage-free delivery. 
We work to reinvent and simplify our sustainable 
packaging options using a science-based approach that 
combines lab testing, machine learning, materials science, 
and manufacturing partnerships to scale sustainable 
change across the packaging supply chain.  
 
Driving Toward Zero Additional Packaging
At Amazon, designing packaging starts with the customer 
and works backwards. Unlike traditional retail stores, 
products bought online don’t need the excess packaging 
and plastic materials used for displaying products on 
store shelves, such as twist-ties, bindings, and clamshell 
casings. In 2008, Amazon introduced Frustration-Free 
Packaging (FFP) to help manufacturers reduce packaging 
waste and develop sustainable alternatives for online 
fulfillment. Our FFP programs incentivize manufacturers to 
package their products in easy-to-open packaging that is 
100% recyclable and ready to ship to customers without 
additional Amazon boxes. 
To certify products under our FFP certification tiers, Amazon 
identifies specific steps that manufacturers can take to improve their packaging and ensure products are protected 
all the way to the customer’s doorstep. We partnered with the 
International Safe Transit Association to craft the standards 
behind our FFP programs and have developed a network 
of structural packaging designers, testing services, and 
materials suppliers to support manufacturers throughout the 
certification process. As of June 2021, more than 2 million 
products qualify under our FFP programs. 
Amazon also collaborates directly with top brands and selling 
partners to transform their packaging for FFP certification. 
We teamed up with Procter & Gamble to invent the Tide 
Eco-Box, a concentrated version of Tide’s traditional laundry 
detergent compressed into a fully recyclable, shipping-safe 
package. The Eco-Box is produced using 60% less plastic and 
30% less water than a conventional plastic jug, and requires 
no additional packing materials to ship. Thousands of other 
brands have made similar packaging improvements by 
participating in Amazon’s FFP programs. Specific case studies 
are available on our Packaging Website.  
 
Improving Our Packaging Materials
As we continue to expand our FFP programs to reduce the 
need for additional packaging, we are improving the design 
and materials used for our packaging assortment. We are 
reducing the weight of packaging materials, while making our 
packaging more robust to avoid damage in the e-commerce 
supply chain. We’ve also added on-package messaging to 
inform customers about these improvements and provide 
guidance on how to recycle their packaging materials.
One example is our innovative paper padded mailer , which 
offers the same recyclability as our corrugated boxes, while 
taking up less space in transit and in the recycling bin. The 
paper padded mailer is made of four layers of paper and a 
water-based cushioning material, which was designed to 
easily separate in the same way that print inks and other 
paper coatings are removed during the paper recycling Packaging
36%  
As of June 2021, we have reduced the 
weight of outbound packaging by over 36% 
and eliminated more than 1 million tons of 
packaging material since 2015—the equivalent 
of 2 billion shipping boxes.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
45 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020process. We are expanding our use of paper padded 
mailers across North America to replace the use of mixed 
paper and plastic mailers by the end of 2022.
We are also increasing our use of flexible paper-based 
mailers across Europe, allowing us to significantly reduce 
the use of plastic in packaging materials by the end of 
2021. In India, Amazon eliminated single-use, thin film 
plastics in packaging in 2020 by replacing plastic materials 
like bubble wrap and air pillows with paper cushions and 
introducing plastic-free, biodegradable tape. To reduce 
the need for packaging at all, we have developed a model 
for packaging-free shipping across more than 100 Indian 
cities, delivering orders in their original packaging using 
protective containers that delivery drivers can reuse.
Meanwhile, we are improving the composition of our plastic 
packaging solutions to use less material and incorporate 
more recycled content. We are increasing the recycled 
content of our plastic film bags from 25% to 50% in 2021, 
and from 15% to over 40% for our plastic padded bags. 
Together, these improvements are expected to eliminate 
more than 25,000 metric tons of new plastic each year. 
At our Whole Foods Market stores, we switched to smaller 
plastic produce bags and replaced all plastic rotisserie chicken 
containers with bags that use approximately 70% less plastic. 
Combined, these changes are estimated to save nearly 2 
million pounds of plastic annually. We also eliminated all 
polystyrene meat trays across Whole Foods Market stores in 
the U.S. and Canada. In 2019, Whole Foods Market became 
the first national retailer to remove all plastic straws from its 
cafes and coffee bars—avoiding 21 million straws annually. 
At Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market in the U.S., we 
are rolling out a curbside recyclable solution to keep grocery items frozen or chilled during delivery. This new packaging 
is produced with recycled paper and eliminates the need for 
plastic liners or bubble bag insulation . 
 
Optimizing Through Machine Learning
How big of a box is needed for a given product? Is an 
Amazon box needed at all? To optimize packaging 
selections at Amazon’s scale, we use machine learning 
algorithms to arrive at the best possible packaging choices 
for deliveries. That means identifying which products don’t 
need additional packaging, and which smaller products are 
suitable for flexible packaging, such as padded mailers and 
bags, which are up to 75% lighter than similar-sized boxes. 
Flexible packaging conforms around products, reducing the 
need for additional packing materials, and takes up 40% 
less space than a box during shipping. In cases where the 
protection of a box is needed, machine learning helps us 
continuously optimize box choices to fit our ever-changing 
catalog of products and redesign boxes to use less material. 
When packaging weighs less and is the right size to protect 
customer orders, we can pack more orders into each 
delivery, resulting in fewer trips and less fuel burned.
We also use machine learning to identify products where 
even small packaging improvements can have significant 
impacts on reducing waste. For example, we developed a 
machine learning model to identify liquid products with the 
highest average rates of customer-reported damages. We 
subject those products to extensive testing at our Amazon 
Packaging Lab, where we simulate a package’s journey 
from the manufacturer to the customer, providing data and 
insights we can share with manufacturers to improve their 
packaging design.  
 
Packaging for Amazon Devices 
In 2020, we committed to make Amazon device packaging 
100% curbside recyclable by 2023. We are also working 
to source 100% of the wood fiber in our packaging from 
responsibly managed forests or recycled sources. We made 
significant progress toward these goals in 2020, eliminating 
more than 27 million plastic bags from our device packaging 
and sourcing more than 97% of the wood fiber packaging 
for all new Echo and Fire TV devices launched in 2020 from 
responsibly managed forests or recycled sources.
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
46 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Recycling
Amazon is committed to reducing our environmental 
footprint through recycling initiatives in our own 
operations and partnerships that support the development 
of recycling infrastructure across the industry.  
 
Recycling in Our Operations
Amazon is reducing the operational waste associated with 
customer fulfillment in facilities across the globe. Corrugated 
board is the most common material that flows through 
our operations, and we work with third-party recycling 
haulers to remove corrugated board from our facilities 
for off-site recycling. Many of these recycling haulers also 
supply Amazon with the packaging materials that we use for 
customer shipments, converting waste material recovered 
from Amazon operations into new, recycled packaging.
Not all of the materials we use can be easily recycled using 
current available systems. Plastic film, for example, is a 
difficult material to process, and most municipal recycling 
programs do not accept it. In order to innovate and solve 
for this gap, Amazon has developed a process for on-site 
plastic film recycling for our operations. In 2020, we began 
converting plastic film into poly bags made of 100% 
recycled material, which are used for package-free returns  
at Amazon drop-off locations in the U.S. After use, the 
bags are collected and returned to Amazon facilities where 
we again convert them into new poly bags, repeating the 
recycling process. As of June 2021, on-site plastic film 
recycling is available at more than 168 Amazon sites across 
North America and Europe.We are also exploring alternative solutions for less common 
materials that cannot be recycled. In several European 
locations, we work with our shipping label suppliers to 
recycle the silicone backing paper from used shipping 
labels into new label components. In the UK, we partner 
with a local manufacturer to collect hundreds of rolls of 
label backing paper each year, converting the material into 
filling for animal bedding products. We are looking across 
our entire operations network to create new uses for waste 
materials in products, packaging, and operational processes.  
 
Partnering to Improve Recycling 
Infrastructure 
To improve curbside recycling in the U.S., we partner with 
The Recycling Partnership, which supports communities 
and local governments with education, infrastructure, and 
measurement related to curbside recycling. Along with 
other members of The Recycling Partnership, Amazon 
is funding an initiative to improve recycling activities 
in the western United States called The West Coast 
Contamination Initiative, which aims to increase the 
quality and value of recyclables collected in these areas by 
reducing the amount of non-recyclable material collected 
through local recycling systems.
We also invested $10 million in the Closed Loop 
Infrastructure Fund to finance recycling and circular 
economy infrastructure in North America. Through 
this investment, Amazon aims to increase product and 
packaging recycling, ensuring that material gets back into 
the manufacturing supply chain. Over the next decade, 
our investment in the Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund 
will improve curbside recycling for 3 million homes in 
communities across the U.S., diverting 1 million tons of 
recyclable material from landfills and eliminating the 
equivalent of 2 million metric tons of carbon dioxide. 
recyclable material from landfill and eliminating the 
equivalent of 2 million metric tons of carbon dioxide.
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
47 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020When we have surplus inventory in our fulfillment network, 
Amazon donates the eligible items to charity organizations, 
giving products a new life, reducing waste, and helping to 
build stronger communities
Surplus inventory includes usable items that are overstocked, 
returned, cosmetically damaged, or near expiration. 
Through software built by our teams, our logistics network 
automatically identifies inventory that can be donated, 
instead of sending these items to be recycled or to landfills. 
We identify partner organizations in our communities, 
including nonprofits and charities, and enable them to collect 
surplus inventory from Amazon facilities and distribute these 
products to people in need.  
 
 
Amazon contributed more than 25 million products to 
our global charity partners in 2020. Together with Whole 
Foods Market, we donated an additional 70 million 
meals and 30 million ounces of hand sanitizer to Feeding 
America, a U.S. network of food banks, pantries, soup 
kitchens, shelters, and other community-based agencies. Product  
Donations
70M
Together with Whole Foods Market, Amazon 
donated 70 million meals and 30 million 
ounces of hand sanitizer to Feeding America
48 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020”“
”Amazon product 
donations are crucial 
in our ability to serve 
and support vulnerable 
communities in the 
U.S. These donations 
have been even more 
important in the face 
of the economic crisis 
brought on by COVID-19.
– Matt Connelly, CEO of Good360Nourishing Our Neighborhoods 
In 2020, Whole Foods Market launched a food redistribution  
program called Nourishing Our Neighborhoods that provided 21 
refrigerated vans to community-based food rescue organizations. 
Each of these vans provides recipient organizations with 
20,000 pounds of rescued food from Whole Foods Market and 
surrounding grocers and retailers every week. This effort will 
provide more than 180 million meals over the next 10 years to 
families in need across the U.S. and Canada.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
48 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020We distribute the majority of our surplus inventory in the 
U.S. through Good360, which partners with a network of 
local nonprofits to reach people in need. Amazon is one of 
the biggest suppliers of donations to Good360, helping to 
provide items to low-income households, foster families, 
individuals with special needs or disabilities, seniors, 
veterans, immigrants, and more.
In Europe, we partner with more than 100 charities and local 
organizations to distribute product donations. Amazon is a 
long-term partner of In-Kind Direct International, a charity 
working across the UK, France, and Germany to broker 
product giving among the members of its network. Through 
this partnership, we donated more than 200,000 products, 
including toys, shoes, clothing, and household items, to 
1,800 charities in 2020.
Many of our product donations are collected through 
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) Donations, a service we 
launched in 2019 to automate the process for selling partners using FBA to donate their overstocked or returned 
items. The service requires no additional action from selling 
partners, allowing Amazon to easily scale product donations 
through our existing logistics. FBA Donations is currently 
available in the U.S., the UK, France, and Japan, and we are 
working to expand the program to more locations in 2021.
Reducing Food Loss and Waste 
At Amazon, we are committed to reducing food loss and waste 
within our U.S. operations by 50% by 2030. We joined the 
Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions group, an effort jointly 
administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and 
the Department of Agriculture. As part of our commitment, 
we will be developing food waste reporting, generating source 
reduction metrics, sharing food waste reduction programs and 
progress on our website, building new food disposition paths, and 
expanding existing donation programs.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
49 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Amazon Second Chance is a central hub that helps 
customers eliminate waste and give products and 
packaging a second life. It is available across the globe with 
offerings in the U.S., Canada, the UK, France, Germany, Italy, 
and Spain, and we recently expanded into Sweden and 
Japan as well.  
 
Trade In, Repair, or Recycle
Amazon makes it easy for customers to retire their products 
without sending them into the waste stream. Through  
Amazon Trade-In, customers in the U.S., the UK, and 
Germany can trade in thousands of eligible items, including 
Amazon devices, cell phones, video games and consoles, and 
more in exchange for an Amazon.com Gift Card. Even non-
functional Amazon devices are eligible for trade-in and will 
be recycled. Some trade-ins may be eligible for a promotional 
credit off of a new qualifying Amazon device. 
Amazon also encourages customers to fix items before 
replacing or disposing of them. We offer free Product 
Support in seven global geographies, providing customers 
with technical assistance, replacement parts, and repair 
services for select items, helping them maximize the life 
of the things they already own. 
For electronic equipment that cannot be repaired or 
traded in, customers can recycle their items free of charge 
through programs like Amazon Device Recycling in the 
U.S. and Recycle with Amazon in Europe. These programs 
route electronic equipment to recycling partners who 
dismantle the items and ensure that they are recycled 
and re-purposed into new products. We also partner with 
companies to make it easier for customers to recycle old 
electronics and clothing through door-to-door pick-up 
services like Retrievr .Shop Like-New and Refurbished Products
Amazon gives customers several options to purchase pre-
owned and refurbished items. By shopping refurbished 
products, customers can extend the life of products and reduce 
waste. Amazon Renewed offers like-new refurbished products, 
such as electronics, home appliances, and more. All products 
are professionally inspected and tested to work and look like 
new, and are backed by the Amazon Renewed Guarantee. 
Amazon Warehouse offers refurbished and returned products, 
which undergo a rigorous 20-point inspection process before 
being sold at a discount. Pre-Owned Amazon Devices provides 
customers with access to fully functional pre-owned products 
that have been screened and tested by Amazon. All of these 
programs reduce waste and encourage reuse by ensuring that 
valuable products can go back into the hands of customers 
rather than being sent to landfills.  
 
Disposing of Amazon Packaging
Amazon Second Chance helps customers responsibly 
dispose of the packaging used to deliver Amazon orders, 
including Amazon device packaging and Amazon Grocery 
deliveries. Customers can view recycling instructions by 
package type on the Amazon Second Chance site, or look 
for instructions in their ship confirmation emails on how to 
properly dispose of packaging included in each shipment.
 
 
 Amazon  
Second Chance
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
50 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020As part of our mission to be Earth’s most customer-
centric company, we are working to give our customers 
access to more sustainable products, from thousands 
of Amazon-branded products we develop and 
manufacture, to millions of retail and third-party  
items sold in Amazon’s store.Product SustainabilityINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
51 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Sustainable  
Shopping
Amazon’s sustainable shopping initiatives give our 
customers the chance to buy more sustainable products. 
We are committed to helping customers find products 
that exceed the social and environmental benefits of 
comparable options when they shop in our stores.  
 
Helping Customers Discover  
More Sustainable Products
In 2020, Amazon launched Climate Pledge Friendly , a new 
program that uses sustainability certifications to highlight 
products that support our commitment to help preserve 
the natural world. Customers in the U.S., the UK, France, 
Germany, Italy, and Spain will see the Climate Pledge 
Friendly label when shopping in Amazon’s online store, 
signifying that one or more sustainability certifications 
support these products. Climate Pledge Friendly products 
are clearly labeled in shopping results and have additional 
sustainability information on their product pages. As of June 
2021, customers can shop for more than 75,000 Climate 
Pledge Friendly products in categories ranging from health 
and household items, to office products and electronics.  
 Climate Pledge Friendly Certifications
Amazon partners with a wide range of external certifications, 
including governmental agencies, nonprofits, and 
independent laboratories to help us distinguish more 
sustainable products. We focus on certifications that are 
reputable, transparent, and help preserve the natural world. 
Amazon also developed Compact by Design, our own 
certification to identify products that have a more efficient 
design. With the removal of excess air and water, products 
require less packaging and become more efficient to ship. 
At scale, these small differences in product size and weight 
lead to significant carbon emission reductions. To qualify 
for Compact by Design, products must have best-in-class 
“unit efficiency,” a metric that allows us to calculate the 
volume and weight utilization for the number of units a 
product delivers.  
 
Inviting Brands to Participate
To expand our sustainable shopping selection, we are 
inviting brands to participate in Climate Pledge Friendly 
by securing certifications for products sold in Amazon’s 
store that improve at least one aspect of sustainability. 
For example, Seventh Generation’s Easy Dose laundry 
detergent offers a Compact by Design certified super-
concentrated detergent that uses 60% less plastic and 
50% less water than the standard 100-ounce laundry 
bottle, enabling significant energy and material savings. 
If every household in the U.S. were to buy one bottle of 
Seventh Generation’s Easy Dose detergent instead of its 
conventional 100-ounce bottle, this would save 220,000 
tons of carbon dioxide equivalent every year, equivalent 
to not driving 540 million miles.  
 75K 
Climate Pledge Friendly  
products as of June 2021
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
52 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020”“
Including Amazon Brands
As part of our commitment to develop more sustainable 
products, we are certifying many of our Amazon-branded 
products to qualify for Climate Pledge Friendly. In the 
category of household goods, Presto! by Amazon offers 
a refillable cleaning starter kit certified as Compact by 
Design. One canister of dissolvable refills is 98% smaller 
and 99% lighter than traditional cleaners—saving plastic, 
space, and money while delivering a powerful clean. Echo, 
Fire TV, and Fire Tablet devices are the first Amazon devices 
to qualify for Climate Pledge Friendly, which are certified 
by the Carbon Trust and carry its Reducing CO2 label—a 
certification that demonstrates a reduction in the carbon 
footprint of products year over year. 
 More Ways for Customers to Shop  
Their Values  
Amazon Second Chance enables customers to eliminate 
waste and give products and packaging a second life.
Amazon Handmade is a destination to find unique, 
genuinely handcrafted products created by local artisans 
and artisans around the world.
Amazon Saheli in India enables women to become 
successful selling partners in Amazon’s store, offering a 
wide selection of unique regional products by women 
entrepreneurs.
Black-Owned Businesses features products and supplies 
sold by Black-owned businesses. The Black-owned 
business store is the next step in Amazon Business’ 
commitment to advance economic empowerment for 
Black business owners.
Women-Owned Businesses features products and 
stories from women small business owners who 
challenge, champion, and create change in their lives and 
communities.
AmazonSmile is a simple way for customers to support 
their favorite charitable organizations every time they 
shop, at no additional cost. As of June 2021, AmazonSmile 
has donated more than $293 million to charities.
AmazonSmile Charity Lists allows customers to donate 
items directly to charitable organizations. With Charity 
Lists, all charity accounts are verified and all lists are 
created and maintained by charity administrators.We love that Amazon is 
making it simple for cus-
tomers to find sustain-
able products. Amazon’s 
new program will expand 
our reach and enable us 
to empower more brands 
to design safer and more 
sustainable products for 
the circular economy.
 
– William McDonough, Co-Founder of the  
 Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
53 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Sustainable  
Products
Amazon works with the suppliers of our branded products 
to drive sustainability improvements across the stages of 
material sourcing, design, manufacturing, and customer 
use. Our global teams also work closely with our suppliers 
to communicate our human rights standards and help 
suppliers build their capacity to provide safe and respectful 
working environments.  
 
Setting a High Bar for  
Amazon-Branded Products
Customers want to be sure that the products they buy 
align with their values and needs. We are committed to 
embedding sustainability into Amazon-branded products 
as a fundamental standard across our supply chain. While 
there is no industry-wide definition of a sustainable 
product, one of the ways Amazon sets a high bar for our 
branded products is through certifications. We partner 
with reputable external certifiers and use our own internal 
Compact by Design certification to certify products that 
qualify as Climate Pledge Friendly . We also engage with 
leading organizations and industry collaboratives to drive 
sustainability improvements, and incorporate new insights 
into our approach as we continue to learn.  
 
Our Product Categories
Household Goods  
When it comes to household goods like cleaning supplies 
and personal care products, Amazon customers want 
options that are safe for their families and for the planet, 
without compromising on quality or price. As part of our 
Chemicals Policy, our Restricted Substance List provides 
an extensive list of chemicals we seek to avoid in Amazon-owned Private Brands baby, household cleaning, personal 
care, and beauty products, and applies to all suppliers of 
these product categories in the U.S. and Europe.
Food and Grocery  
Amazon offers a range of sustainable food and grocery 
options and uses many sustainably sourced, third-party 
certified ingredients across our Amazon-branded selection. 
This includes our commitments to sustainable palm 
oil and animal welfare in Amazon Private Brands food 
products. We also avoid chemicals of concern and prohibit 
non-recyclable materials in Amazon Kitchen food contact 
packaging, as outlined in our Food Contact Materials 
Restricted Substance List.  
Whole Foods Market Quality Standards
Every food product sold at our Whole Foods Market stores must 
meet rigorous Quality Standards. These standards prohibit more than 
100 preservatives, flavors, colors, sweeteners, and other ingredients 
commonly found in food. All meat in our meat department is traceable 
back to the farm or ranch, and is sourced from animals raised without 
antibiotics or added growth hormones. The fresh beef, pork, chicken, 
turkey, and lamb in our meat department is certified to meet more 
than 100 animal welfare standards by the Global Animal Partnership, 
a nonprofit alliance of producers, retailers, animal advocates, and 
scientists. All wild-caught seafood in our seafood department is 
sourced from fisheries that are certified sustainable by the Marine 
Stewardship Council Standard, or rated either “Green” or “Yellow” by 
the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch. Fresh or frozen, all of our 
farm-raised seafood is responsibly farmed and traceable to the source, 
and requires third-party verification of water quality and dozens of 
other quality standards.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
54 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Alexa Energy Dashboard  
We are making it easier for customers to manage their home 
energy use with the Alexa energy dashboard, available in 
the U.S. The dashboard works with compatible smart lights, 
plugs, switches, water heaters, thermostats, televisions, and 
Echo devices, allowing customers to easily track the energy 
these devices use. Customers can also enable Alexa to help 
them conserve energy through a new Hunches feature. For 
example, if Alexa has a Hunch that a customer is away and 
forgot to turn off a light, Alexa can automatically turn it off, 
helping customers save energy and reduce carbon emissions.Fashion and Apparel  
We are committed to making it easier for our 
customers to choose high-quality, sustainable 
apparel products. We are working to 
lower the environmental impact of our 
Amazon-owned Private Brands apparel 
products, and we partner directly with our 
suppliers to find solutions that promote the 
use of sustainably produced fabrics and recycled 
materials, including cotton, leather, and manmade 
cellulosic fibers. We collaborate with leading 
apparel organizations to incorporate industry  
best practices and support collective action. 
 
Amazon Devices 
We are making Amazon devices more sustainable, from 
how we build them to how our customers use them. We 
incorporate recycled materials into many new Amazon 
devices, giving new life to materials that could otherwise 
end up in waste streams. We have also developed features 
like Low Power Mode to reduce the energy devices 
consume during periods of inactivity over their lifetime. In 
2020, we added Low Power Mode to the latest models of 
Echo and Fire TV devices and are rolling out free over-the-
air updates to bring Low Power Mode to older models of 
devices already in customers’ homes.  
 
 
 
 Our Material Commitments  
 
Palm Oil  
As of 2021, we use sustainably certified palm oil in all 
Amazon Private Brands food products in North America 
and Europe. In a small number of cases, palm oil credits 
may be used to cover very small volumes and complex 
derivatives. We revisit these cases annually with applicable 
suppliers and agree on plans to transition to physically 
certified sustainable palm oil where possible.
Cotton  
We are working to ensure that all Amazon-owned 
Private Brands apparel products are made using cotton 
from more sustainable sources by the end of 2022. This 
includes using cotton sourced from recycled materials, 
from farms certified as producing organic cotton, or 
through the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), a global 
nonprofit that aims to transform the cotton supply 
chain by developing Better Cotton as a sustainable 
mainstream commodity.  
After joining BCI in 2019, we sourced 48% of the cotton 
used for our Amazon-owned Private Brands apparel 
products as Better Cotton in 2020. While Better Cotton 
is not physically traceable to end products, BCI farmers 
benefit from the demand for Better Cotton in equivalent 
volumes to those we source. Amazon is also a member of 
BCI’s Retailer and Brand Advisory Panel on Traceability.
In 2019, Amazon signed the Responsible Sourcing Network’s 
public Cotton Pledges, committing to not source cotton from 
Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan for Amazon-owned Private 
Brands products until the pervasive use of government-
mandated forced labor is stopped. In 2021, we began 
participating in a Responsible Sourcing Network initiative 
called YESS: Yarn Ethically & Sustainably Sourced, which 
works to address forced labor in the cotton value chain.  
 
Cellulosic Fibers  
By 2022, we will ensure that none of the manmade 
cellulosic fibers (including rayon, viscose, lyocell, and 
modal) sourced for Amazon-owned Private Brands apparel 
products are derived from ancient or endangered forests, INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
55 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020endangered species’ habitats, or other controversial 
sources, as defined by the nonprofit organization Canopy’s 
tools and reports. Our approach to cellulosics includes 
using fabrics that provide assurance on traceability and use 
best-available processing technology, as well as supporting 
the use of innovative lower-impact alternative fiber 
sources, such as recycled fiber from used clothing.  
 
Recycled Fabrics
We will increase the use of recycled fabrics in Amazon-
owned Private Brands apparel products, including moving 
from conventional to recycled polyester, and launching 
products made from innovative recycled fibers. In 2020, 
we joined the Textile Exchange, a global nonprofit that 
works with its members to drive industry transformation in 
preferred fibers, including recycled materials.  
 
Leather
In 2020, we joined the Leather Working Group, a 
nonprofit membership organization that works to improve 
environmental stewardship within the global leather 
industry. By the end of 2023, we will source all leather 
used in Amazon-owned Private Brands apparel and shoe 
products from tanneries that meet the Leather Working 
Group’s bronze level award or higher.  
 
Product Labels  
As of 2020, all new woven labels in Amazon-owned Private 
Brands apparel products are made from recycled fabric and 
all new swing tags are made from paper certified by the 
Forest Stewardship Council.  
 
Recycled Materials
In 2020, we launched Echo and Fire TV devices that include 
100% post-consumer recycled fabric, 100% recycled 
die-cast aluminum, and 30-50% post-consumer recycled 
plastic, depending on the product. We also incorporated 
50% post-consumer recycled plastic into certain power 
adapters that ship with our devices.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Our Commitments Beyond Materials  
 Human Rights
Amazon is committed to ensuring the people and 
communities that support our entire value chain are 
treated with fundamental dignity and respect, and we 
strive to ensure the products and services we provide are 
produced in a way that respects internationally recognized 
human rights.  
 
 
 
 
Animal Welfare  
As retailers of animal-derived products, we recognize 
our responsibility to uphold animal welfare within our 
supply chain. We expect our suppliers to uphold the Five 
Freedoms framework for animal welfare, which mandates 
freedom from hunger and thirst; freedom from discomfort; 
freedom from pain, injury, or disease; freedom to express 
normal behavior; and freedom from fear and distress. We 
expect our suppliers to comply with all applicable laws and 
to take a zero-tolerance approach to animal cruelty, abuse, 
and neglect. We encourage suppliers to continuously 
improve their animal welfare standards and practices, and 
to work toward recognized animal welfare certifications or 
industry guidelines that include welfare provisions.  
 
Chemicals and Restricted Substances
Part of our commitment to quality is avoiding chemicals of 
concern in our products that can affect human health and/
or the environment. We define chemicals of concern as 
those chemicals that: (1) meet the criteria for classification 
as a carcinogen, mutagen, or reproductive or other 
systemic toxicant; or (2) are persistent, bioaccumulative, 
and toxic. We use leading science and customer feedback 
to prioritize which chemicals of concern to focus on based 
on product type, customer concerns, and the availability 
of safer alternatives. Learn more about the chemicals we 
seek to avoid in our Restricted Substance List and our Food 
Contact Materials Restricted Substance List.Read more about our commitment  
to human rights on page 58. INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
56 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020PeopleINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES!Amazon is committed to ensuring the people and 
communities that support our entire value chain are 
treated with fundamental dignity and respect, and we 
strive to ensure the products and services we provide 
are produced in a way that respects internationally 
recognized human rights. Human RightsINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
58 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Our Approach 
to Human Rights
Our commitment and approach are informed by leading 
international standards and frameworks developed by 
the United Nations (UN) and the International Labour 
Organization (ILO). Amazon is committed to respecting 
and supporting the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights, the UN Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights, the Core Conventions of the ILO, and the ILO 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
Our strategy to deliver on these commitments to human 
rights has four pillars: developing strong policies, embedding 
human rights into our business, addressing risk through 
mechanisms, and transparency and stakeholder engagement.  
 
Strong Policies
Our efforts are anchored in policies that apply across all 
aspects of our business—from our own operations, to our 
supply chain, to the communities in which we operate. In 
a commitment to continuously raising the bar, in 2019, we 
codified our long-standing commitment to human rights in 
the form of Amazon’s Global Human Rights Principles, which 
reflect the foundation of how we embed respect for human 
rights throughout our business. We are committed to consistently evolving and improving 
our approach. We regularly review our policies to identify 
areas for update and improvement. We conduct in-
depth benchmarking against international standards and 
evolving industry norms at least every three years in line 
with industry best practices.  
 
Human Rights Principles
From the employees in our fulfillment centers, to the drivers 
delivering packages to our customers, to the workers in 
factories making the products we sell—people enable our 
mission to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. 
These values have been long-held at Amazon and codifying 
them into a set of Human Rights Principles demonstrates 
our support for fundamental human rights and the dignity 
of workers everywhere we operate around the world.  
 
 
 
 
Supply Chain Standards
We set a high bar for ourselves and our suppliers. Our 
Supply Chain Standards detail the requirements and 
expectations for our suppliers, their supply chains, and 
selling partners who list products in our stores, and 
they are grounded in principles of inclusivity, continuous 
improvement, and supply chain accountability. We 
engage with suppliers that are committed to these same 
principles; suppliers are subject to these standards as a 
condition of doing business with us. 
DOWNLOAD AND READ  
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN STANDARDSREAD OUR HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES  
ON OUR WEBSITEINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
59 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Human Trafficking Awareness  
Amazon does not tolerate the use of child labor, forced labor, 
or human trafficking in any form in our operations or value 
chain. We have detailed the components of this commitment 
to combating human trafficking (also referred to as modern 
slavery) in our annual Modern Slavery Statement, our Supply 
Chain Standards, and our Global Human Rights Principles.
We’re raising awareness through employee training and 
partnerships. Our human trafficking awareness program 
provides ongoing training to employees around the world to 
recognize indicators of human trafficking and report concerns 
to appropriate authorities in a way that puts the interests of 
victims first. To develop the training, we incorporated videos and 
materials from the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority 
(GLAA), a UK public agency focused on investigating labor 
exploitation. Our global security operations team has immediate 
response protocols in the event of a suspected human 
trafficking-related issue, regardless of where the issue arises.
We are also an official corporate sponsor of Truckers Against 
Trafficking (TAT), an organization dedicated to combating 
human trafficking in the trucking industry, and began using 
TAT training modules to train our internal fleet of drivers, 
teaching them how to identify and respond to potential 
victims of human trafficking. As of January 2021, we trained 
100% of Amazon employees who are behind the wheels of 
trucks in our middle-mile business.Embedding Human Rights  
Into Our Business  
We are committed to embedding human rights considerations 
into decision-making across the company and into our policy 
and governance framework. This governance starts with 
Amazon’s Board of Directors, which appoints committees 
for oversight on specific issues. Among other duties, the 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees 
Amazon’s global environmental sustainability, corporate 
social responsibility, and corporate governance policies, 
practices, and initiatives. The Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee oversees Amazon’s global human 
capital management strategies and policies. 
As a global company, we recognize the responsibility 
and opportunity we have to raise awareness among our 
employees on human rights issues. In 2020, we enhanced our 
training on human trafficking and forced labor for employees 
in our logistics network.       Mechanisms to Address Risk
We are committed to identifying, preventing, and mitigating 
adverse human rights impacts, and are continuously working 
to improve our approach. At Amazon, every business 
deploys a variety of mechanisms to help us inspect our 
business and make decisions at various points of product 
and process development and in the execution of our day-
to-day operations. Social Responsibility teams review the 
performance and impact of our own programs and inspect 
activity in our global supply chains.
In our supply chain, we assess and respond to risk by 
leveraging internal and external data and guidance from 
external stakeholders, including industry experts, civil society 
groups, and non-governmental organizations. One way we 
do this is through independent audits to verify compliance 
with our Supply Chain Standards though regular on-site 
inspections and confidential worker interviews.  
 
 
 Learn more about our Responsible  
Sourcing Program on page 84. 
We recognize that audits alone are insufficient to drive 
long-term change across industries. We, like many 
companies in similar industries, are exploring new ways to 
encourage improvement in worker protections, including 
supplier capacity building programs, worker trainings, 
and collaborations with other brands and civil society. We 
currently invest in capacity building programs across five 
key commitment areas: Safe Workplaces, Freely Chosen 
Employment, Gender Equity, Fair Wages, and Environmental 
Protection.  
Learn more about our investments on page 91. 
Within our own operations, we have teams dedicated to 
assessing and addressing risk to our employees. Those 
teams focus on establishing open communication with 
our employees around the world and providing them 
with meaningful grievance mechanisms and avenues for 
dialogue with leadership.  
 
 Learn more about our approach to  
employee engagement on page 80.   
 
 
 INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
60 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Salient RisksWe are dedicated to building a diverse and inclusive 
workplace, where every employee feels comfortable 
sharing their unique perspectives and is supported in 
growing their career. 
 
And, we are obsessed with keeping our employees safe 
while on the job. We work relentlessly to innovate and 
create new industry benchmarks for health and safety. 
Learn more about our investments  
in workplace safety on page 69.  
 
We know we have more to do, and we are committed 
to widening our lens to better understand the potential 
human rights impacts of our business.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amazon’s Salient Human Rights Issues  
The guidance provided by the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights recommends that companies 
identify their most salient human rights risks as the first step 
in a comprehensive human rights due diligence strategy.  
Since 2020, we have worked with sustainability and human 
rights consulting firm Article One Advisors to identify salient 
human rights risks across our business. In conducting this 
assessment, we consulted a diverse group of external human 
rights experts and incorporated their feedback into the 
results. We benchmarked the results against internationally 
recognized human rights standards. This assessment 
identified a set of priority human rights values and key salient 
human rights risks for Amazon.
Our existing policies and programs currently address many 
of these risks, however, we will use the assessment results 
to build on current practice and prioritize our human rights 
due diligence efforts. One important due diligence tool is 
a human rights impact assessment (HRIA). HRIAs are an 
effective mechanism to identify and address adverse impacts 
business activities might have on individuals such as workers, 
local community members, or consumers. The process 
involves meaningful engagement with external stakeholders 
to gain a full understanding of potential impacts.  
Human Rights Values
Respect Human Rights  
in our Supply Chain
Empower Employees  
and Contractors
Earn and Keep the  
Trust of Our Customers
Strengthen the  
Communities We ServeDiversity, Equity,  
and Inclusion
Safe and 
Healthy Working            
Conditions
Modern Slavery and 
Forced Labor 
Fair Wages  
and Hours  Freedom of Association 
Future of Work 
Right to Privacy 
Product Safety and 
Security 
Social, Economic, and 
Environmental Justice
 Three Foundational Commitments  
Meaningful Consultation with Stakeholders  
Opportunity for Concerns to be Heard and Issues Resolved  
Focus on Vulnerable GroupsLearn more about our efforts on  
diversity, equity, and inclusion on page 71. INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
61 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020In 2020, we conducted our first HRIA to assess the raw 
and recovered materials supply chain for Amazon-branded 
digital devices (Kindle, Fire TV, Fire Tablet, Ring, and Echo), 
including the manufacture, assembly, and return of those 
products. The raw and recovered materials supply chain 
is a complex system of sellers, buyers, traders, producers, 
processors, and manufacturers across multiple tiers and 
sourcing regions around the world. This supply chain is, in 
many places, highly opaque, adding to the challenge of 
identifying and prioritizing salient human rights risks and 
impacts. For this assessment, we focused on four supply 
chain categories: Tier 1 and Tier 2 manufacturing, reverse 
logistics, minerals and metals, and plastics and synthetics.
We engaged an independent third-party expert, Article One, 
to research key human rights risks across these categories, 
conduct a gap analysis of Amazon’s current approach to 
managing human rights risks, and identify opportunities 
to have a positive impact. The process included internal 
interviews, reviews of media and third-party reporting, and 
external stakeholder engagement. We selected external 
stakeholders based on their representation of impacted 
groups, geographic scope, and expertise in human rights. 
They included experts on a wide array of issues, including 
human rights and sustainable development in technology, finance, waste, plastics, responsible minerals, circular 
economy, and science-based solutions.  
 
Key Learnings and Opportunities
Using the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights as a framework to guide the assessment, the HRIA 
conducted this past year resulted in the following findings 
and areas of opportunity for the supply chains of Amazon-
branded digital devices, which was the focus of this HRIA. 
These findings and areas of opportunity could also be 
applied across Amazon:
Tier 1 and 2 Manufacturing: These are the facilities 
and suppliers involved in the final assembly of Amazon 
devices (Tier 1) and component manufacturing (Tier 2). 
The assessment found that Amazon suppliers in this 
category had moderate to high levels of awareness of 
Amazon’s social compliance requirements. However, 
challenges remain throughout the electronics industry 
as a whole, including: difficulties enforcing working hour 
and rest requirements; low or unequal wages, even when 
compliant with national minimum wages standards; and 
absence of effective grievance mechanisms for workers.  
 
Minerals + Metals
Plastics + SyntheticsTier 1-2  
ManufacturingReverse Logistics
Tier 1: Final Assembly  
Tier 2: Component ManufacturingHuman Rights Impact Assessment:  
Amazon Devices
Raw and Recovered Materials Supply Chain 
This map is a simplified visual of supply chain categories  
assessed for this report.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
62 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Reverse Logistics: Reverse logistics encompasses 
what a company does with returned products and how 
a returned product re-enters the supply chain. The 
assessment found risks in this sector were similar to those 
identified for Tier 1 and 2 Manufacturing. 
Minerals and Metals: Amazon conducts robust due 
diligence on our suppliers annually to ensure the absence 
of conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold) in 
our supply chain. Human rights issues are also associated 
with other minerals, metals, and rare earth supply chains. 
Read more about our approach to conflict minerals on 
page 89.
Plastics and Synthetics: The electronics industry as a 
whole has limited visibility over the sourcing locations of 
the plastics and synthetics supply chain or the chemicals 
used in plastic production. These commodities are sold to 
countless purchasers across multiple tiers of production, 
making traceability extremely difficult.    
 
 
 
 
 
 Building on Our Efforts
This HRIA was a key milestone in our human rights strategy 
and deepened our understanding of salient human rights 
risks in the Amazon devices supply chain and the electronics 
industry as a whole. We will incorporate the results of this 
assessment into our overall business approach, continuing 
to improve our reporting and transparency and build on our 
progress. The assessment results pointed to several areas 
of opportunity. These include increased access to effective 
grievance mechanisms and remedy through strategic 
partnerships. We will further our efforts to incorporate 
social responsibility performance evaluation tools into our 
assessment of reverse logistics suppliers and work with 
our suppliers to increase their use of recycled or renewable 
materials in place of virgin materials. We are also scoping 
expansion of our human rights due diligence beyond conflict 
minerals to other minerals with human rights risk. Another 
critical opportunity includes deepening our engagement 
with external stakeholders to improve management of 
our salient human rights risks and identify opportunities 
for long-term partnerships to address systemic issues. As 
we implement the HRIA results based on priority, we will 
continue to identify opportunities to promote human rights 
across the Amazon devices supply chain.  
 INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
63 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Transparency and  
Stakeholder Engagement
We are committed to driving industry-wide best practices 
in human rights due diligence through increased 
disclosures about our approach and by expanding our 
stakeholder engagement. Each year, we publicly share 
the most up-to-date information about our programs, 
including external partnerships with organizations that 
share our core human rights values. 
 
Transparency
We publish an interactive supply chain map that provides 
details on suppliers of Amazon-branded apparel, consumer 
electronics, food and beverage, and home goods products. 
We expanded the map in 2020 to include suppliers’ factory 
locations, additional suppliers and product categories, more 
information on capacity building programs completed by 
individual suppliers, and gender data, where available.
In 2020, we disclosed additional information about 
our supplier assessment process and audit results, our 
approach to worker engagement, and the goals we have 
set for ourselves on such topics as forced labor training and 
gender equity. In this report, we provide an update on our 
goals, the results of our mapping to understand our salient 
human rights risks, the results of our devices human rights 
impact assessment, and year-over-year supplier audit 
results. We report annually in line with the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights Reporting 
Framework and we annually update our Modern Slavery 
Statement.Stakeholder Engagement
Engagement with external stakeholders is key to our 
human rights due diligence approach. We rely on experts 
and affected rights-holders to inform our approach and 
ensure that our efforts have the intended impact. Through 
these partnerships, we access invaluable expert input to 
our work, helping us achieve greater impact on working 
conditions around the world.
In the last year, we have built a number of new
relationships, including:  
 
Joining the Better Cotton Initiative’s Retailer and Brand 
Advisory Panel on Traceability.
Becoming a pilot sponsor of the Responsible Sourcing 
Network initiative, YESS: Yarn Ethically & Sustainably 
Sourced. YESS works to address forced labor in the 
cotton value chain by providing training to—and 
managing the assessment of—spinners and fabric mills 
to identify, prevent, mitigate, and avoid sourcing cotton 
produced with forced labor.
Joining the Centre for Child Rights and Business 
working group to engage with peer brands and identify 
common challenges, share resources, and implement 
best practices to make supply chains safer for children, 
young persons, and working migrant parents.
Adding our apparel suppliers to the Open Apparel 
Registry to foster brand collaboration and action in the 
apparel industry. 
Joining the Brand Ethical Working Group, an informal 
group of more than 40 brand members operating 
in India that work to find solutions to industry-level 
challenges. 
 
 
 
 
 LEARN MORE ABOUT ALL OF OUR  
PARTNERSHIPS ON OUR WEBSITEINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
64 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Our employees are critical to our mission of being Earth’s 
most customer-centric company. Our ranks are full of 
passionate people who are building new products and 
services every day on behalf of our customers.Employees
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
65 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Amazon is building a strong culture and investing in our 
people to attract the diverse, innovative workforce we 
need to exceed our customers’ expectations today and into 
the future. We are committed to providing the support, 
benefits, and opportunities our employees need to be 
successful, whether they are building their careers at 
Amazon or developing skills with us to help them on their 
professional journey.  
 
Comprehensive Benefits and  
Competitive Pay
In the U.S., Amazon’s starting wage is $15 per hour for 
all full-time, part-time, temporary (including those hired 
by agencies), and seasonal employees. We also offer 
competitive starting wages around the world. Our starting 
hourly wage is 9.70 GBP in the UK, 16 CAD in Canada, 12 
EUR in Germany, and 10.67 EUR in France. Offering leading 
starting wages has a positive impact on other wages in 
local labor markets where Amazon operates in the U.S. A 
recent study by economists at the University of California-
Berkeley and Brandeis University found that Amazon’s 
decision to increase its starting wage to $15 per hour 
resulted in a 4.7% increase in the average hourly wage 
among other employers in the same labor market based 
on commuting zone. In addition to competitive pay, regular full-time employees 
in the U.S. have opportunities to participate in a 401(k) plan 
with 50% company matching up to 4% of compensation; 
open Flexible Spending Accounts for health and dependent 
care; and receive paid time off and holiday overtime pay.  
 
Healthcare and Family Support
In the U.S., we offer comprehensive, transgender-inclusive 
health benefits that start the first day on the job for 
regular, full-time employees. More than 90% of our 
regular full-time and part-time employees in the U.S. are 
eligible for healthcare benefits. These benefits include 
medical, prescription drug, dental, and vision coverage. To 
increase access to quality and affordable healthcare for our 
employees, we are building a network of Neighborhood 
Health Centers on-site or close to our facilities in five U.S. 
states, offering clinics exclusively dedicated to serving our 
employees and their families. We offer U.S. employees 
and their families access to telehealth and on-demand 
healthcare services through Amazon Care, which allows 
them to connect with a doctor in 60 seconds or less. We 
also launched a new mental health benefit in 2021 called 
Resources for Living, offering free confidential mental 
health services to U.S. employees, their families, and 
members of their household.
Amazon offers generous, flexible paid leave for parents, 
from our hourly employees to our most senior executives. 
We offer up to 20 weeks of paid leave to birth mothers 
and six weeks to non-birth parents or parents who adopt. 
In the U.S., we offer adoption reimbursement, access to 
comprehensive infertility coverage, and parental leave 
benefits like Leave Share and Ramp Back. Leave Share 
allows employees to share any amount of their parental Investing in
Our Employees
$ 1 5/hour
Starting hourly wage for all full-time,  
part-time, temporary, and seasonal 
employees in the U.S.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
66 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020leave with their partner. Ramp Back enables employees 
to return to work after birth or adoption on a flexible, 
reduced schedule for up to eight weeks. Where possible, 
we provide unlimited gender transition benefits, including 
gender affirmation, and we have internal resources to help 
managers and team members support employees who are 
going through gender transition. 
Outside of the U.S., we offer our employees access to 
benefits to support physical and financial well-being, 
including access to healthcare coverage and long-term 
savings plans. We are working to evolve our benefits 
programs in different countries to support the needs of our 
diverse workforce. For example, in India, we cover infertility 
treatment and gender reassignment surgery through a 
select network of high-quality service providers. Amazon employees in 26 countries have access to telehealth 
services, providing fast and safe access to care, and in 
21 countries, ReThink helps families with children who 
have autism and other disabilities build the skills they 
need to reach their fuller potential. Additionally, Amazon 
employees around the world and their eligible dependents 
have access to an Employee Assistance Program that 
provides mental health support 24 hours a day.  
 
Education and Career Advancement 
In 2019, Amazon committed $700 million to pilot, launch, 
and scale free or low-cost upskilling opportunities to 100,000 
employees by 2025. Since making this commitment, Amazon 
has scaled and expanded our skills training programs, with 
15,000 employees participating in the first 12 months. 
Through this pledge, Amazon is helping our workforce gain 
education to transition into high demand and technical roles 
in areas that will continue growing in years to come, such as 
medicine, cloud computing, and machine learning. 
Among our skills training programs is Career Choice, which 
pre-pays 95% of tuition for courses in high-demand fields 
for employees in the U.S., Europe, Australia, South Africa, 
Canada, and Costa Rica. Through Career Choice, more than 
40,000 employees in 14 countries have pursued degrees 
across the fields of information technology, healthcare, 
mechanical and skilled trades, administration and business 
services, and transportation. Additional programs include 
Amazon Apprenticeship, Amazon Technical Academy, 
Associate2Tech, Machine Learning University, and AWS 
Training and Certification, all of which help Amazon 
employees gain critical skills to move into higher skill, better-
paying, technical and non-technical roles, either within 
Amazon or elsewhere.  
 
Protecting Our Employees  
During COVID-19
Our top priority is ensuring the health and safety of our 
employees, which is why Amazon made over 150 process 
improvements and invested more than $11.5 billion on 
COVID-related initiatives to keep employees safe and get 
products to customers throughout 2020. This includes 
90%
Over 90% of Amazon regular full-time 
and part-time employees in the U.S. 
are eligible for healthcare benefits.LEARN MORE IN OUR  
UPSKILLING 2025 REPORTINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
67 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020investments related to COVID-19 safety measures such as 
personal protective equipment, enhanced cleaning of our 
facilities, processes that allow for effective social distancing, 
higher wages for hourly teams, and developing our own 
COVID-19 testing capabilities.
We added more than 5,700 janitorial staffers to our teams and 
2,200 handwashing stations to our global facilities in 2020. 
We provided supplies to our fulfillment centers and office sites, 
including more than 283 million masks, 287 million gloves, 
513 million ounces of hand sanitizer, 450 million ounces of 
sanitizing spray, 1.5 trillion wipes, 351,000 thermometers, 
and 16,500 thermal cameras. As part of our effort to keep 
our front-line employees safe, we built our own COVID-19 
testing capabilities and have the capacity to conduct tens of 
thousands of tests per day across hundreds of sites. We are 
also advocating for COVID-19 vaccinations for our front-line 
employees, including team members working in fulfillment 
and data centers and at our Whole Foods Market stores.  
To support our global front-line employees who continue 
to deliver critical supplies to customers, we provided more 
than $2.5 billion in bonuses and incentives in 2020. We 
offer company-subsidized child and adult backup care to 
full-time and part-time Amazon and Whole Foods Market 
employees in the U.S.  An employee diagnosed with 
COVID-19 receives up to two weeks of paid time off , in 
addition to their other paid and unpaid time off options. 
We also established a $25 million relief fund to support our partners, like delivery drivers, and seasonal employees 
facing financial hardship or quarantine.
As part of Amazon’s commitment to help India fight the 
second wave of the COVID-19 outbreak, we provided 
oxygen concentrators, oximeters, and other critical supplies 
to employees in need. Amazon worked with partners to 
deliver more than 8,000 oxygen concentrators and 500 
BiPAP machines from Singapore to hospitals and public 
institutions supporting patients infected with COVID-19 
across India. Amazon also procured 100 ventilators for 
hospitals with the most urgent needs and worked with 
the equipment manufacturer to install, maintain, and train 
personnel to use the machines. We provided additional 
leave for associates who tested positive for the virus 
and expanded India’s sick leave policy to cover leave for 
caregivers. Safety of our customers and teams in India 
continues to be our top priority.
Employee Spotlight: Andre Grass
Having dropped out of high school to help support his 
family, Andre Grass was an Amazon packer who enrolled in 
the Associate2Tech (A2Tech) program in 2017. A2Tech is 
a 90-day program, paid for by Amazon, that is designed to 
give fulfillment center associates a way to move into a more 
highly skilled career by providing the training and industry 
certification needed to make it happen. The program 
includes opportunities to shadow another technician and 
gain hands-on experience in IT as a support technician. 
During the program associates have about eight hours a 
week to take online courses while at work. Andre completed 
his A2Tech training and certifications in three months and 
became an IT support engineer. “Since graduating from the 
program, I’ve had the opportunity to launch new sites and 
work on projects that improved overall customer experience, 
and have been promoted to the next level within IT.”Employing Veterans and Military Spouses
As of June 2021, Amazon employed more than 40,000 
veterans and military spouses across the U.S., surpassing 
the Joining Forces Pledge we made in 2016 to hire 25,000 
veterans and military spouses over the next five years, and 
to train 10,000 active duty service members, veterans, 
and military spouses. Amazon provides a Military Leave 
of Absence to all eligible serving employees, including 
differential pay, continued healthcare coverage, and job 
protection. Amazon military employees across the U.S. 
have served more than 20,000 days in the Reserves and 
National Guard in 2020, from serving as aircraft technicians 
transporting COVID-19 patients, to assembling essential 
COVID-19 test kits. 
LEARN MORE ABOUT HOW WE ARE SUPPORTING  
OUR EMPLOYEES DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC ON 
OUR COVID-19 VACCINATION AND TESTING BLOGINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
68 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Safety, Health
and Well-Being
We aim to be Earth’s safest place to work. We are committed 
to ensuring the safety and well-being of all Amazon 
employees every day. Our work environment allows 
almost anyone—regardless of background, skill level, or 
experience—to work with confidence. 
Everyone at Amazon shares ownership in creating a safe 
workplace, and we invest in resources to help our employees 
thrive. We are constantly evaluating new technologies and 
learning opportunities to optimize how employees and 
leaders build capabilities, receive critical safety information, 
and prepare to meet future challenges.  
 
Investing in Safety
Our safety performance is possible because of the drive and 
commitment of our operations employees and our 6,200 
safety professionals, who are dedicated to using the science 
of safety to solve complex problems and establish new 
industry best practices.
Beyond building a strong safety team, we invested more 
than $11.5 billion in COVID-19-related measures to 
help keep employees safe in 2020. We also committed 
an additional $125 million to non-COVID-19-related 
safety capital projects, such as vehicle safety controls and 
engineered ergonomic solutions. In 2021, we will invest over 
$300 million in new and continuing safety projects, including 
an initial $66.5 million investment to create technology 
that helps avoid powered industrial truck collisions and 
significantly improve forklift safety.  
 
Safety Design and Technologies
We design and create new solutions to continuously 
reinforce and improve safety in our operations. This includes integrating new and advanced technologies that increase 
safety at every step of Amazon’s process, from receiving 
vendor shipments to sorting multiple packages into 
shipments ready for delivery.
Six to 18 months before opening a new site, we scrutinize 
every safety and engineering detail to limit potential hazards 
and lower risk. When opening new facilities, we only launch 
sites after they have successfully passed 2,500 safety 
checkpoints. We have strict equipment and machine design, 
installation, testing, and compliance standards. We regularly 
review those standards with manufacturers and vendors.
Amazon fulfillment facilities are equipped with a variety of 
technologies to reduce physical demands on our employees. 
For example, we use custom-designed tables that lift items 
electronically, keeping employees from having to bend over 
to pick up objects to place on conveyors. We also developed 
wearable technologies to protect our employees on the job. 
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
69 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020We provide intelligent safety vests for employees who 
work alongside robotic pods, which use short-range radio 
frequencies to send signals to the robots to slow down, 
alter their work, or stop when they detect employees 
nearby. We developed a similar wearable vest for grocery 
delivery fulfillment facilities in North America that tracks 
how long employees spend inside freezers in order to 
limit their cold exposure.
Beyond our facilities, our delivery network is powered 
by thousands of small businesses and drivers who rely 
on Amazon’s technology and safety initiatives every day. 
Our vehicles are fitted with camera safety technology, 
use artificial intelligence to capture real-time road 
conditions, and identify at-risk driving events. These 
technologies are used to help keep drivers and the 
communities where we deliver safe. When we piloted 
this technology from April to October 2020 on more 
than 2 million miles of delivery routes, we found that 
crashes decreased 48%, stop sign violations decreased 
20%, driving without a seatbelt decreased 60%, and 
distracted driving decreased 45%.  
 
Musculoskeletal Disorders
Nearly 40% of work-related injuries at Amazon are 
classified as musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs), such as 
sprains or strains due to repetitive motion. This type of 
injury is common with the type of work that we do and is 
most likely to occur during an employee’s first six months 
at Amazon. This insight has inspired some of our most 
significant safety, health, and wellness initiatives and 
technologies to date.
 Among these initiatives is our WorkingWell program, 
where we educate new employees about their bodies, 
health, and wellness to help them successfully adapt to 
working at Amazon. This program is available at 350 sites, 
reaching more than 850,000 associates and contributing 
to reducing Amazon’s overall MSD recordable incident 
rates in 2020. WorkingWell has received positive feedback 
from 88% of associates, and we are expanding the 
program in 2021, with the aim of cutting our recordable 
incident rates by 50% by 2025.
We are committed to utilizing our distinctive 
technological capabilities, embracing our expertise in 
health and wellness, and collaborating with proven 
thought leaders and scientists to lead the way for 
workplaces around the world to proactively manage and 
prevent work-related injuries.
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
850K
Our WorkingWell program reached  
more than 850,000 associates in 2020
70 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion
At Amazon, we value diversity, equity, and inclusion. We 
believe these values are good for business and, more 
fundamentally, are simply right. Amazon customers have 
many intersecting identities, and we serve them better with 
a diverse and inclusive workforce. Our diverse perspectives 
help us push each other to think bigger, and differently, 
about the products and services we build for our customers 
and the day-to-day nature of our workplace.  
 
Our Approach to Diversity,  
Equity, and Inclusion
We take very seriously our commitment to respect and 
value people from all backgrounds, including gender, race, 
ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, and disability. We 
serve diverse customers, operate in diverse communities, 
and rely on a diverse workforce. Diversity, equity, and 
inclusion are cornerstones of our continued success and 
critical components of our culture. Our ability to innovate 
on behalf of our customers relies on the perspectives 
and knowledge of people from all backgrounds, and the 
policies and procedures we have in place for our employees, 
selling partners, suppliers, and customers highlight our 
commitment and approach. 
Like many companies and institutions, we have more work 
to do on diversity, equity, and inclusion, but we believe we 
are on the right path. We have initiated numerous near-term 
and long-term programs and strategies across key aspects 
of our business to increase diversity and representation 
in our workforce, expand our efforts to build an inclusive 
culture, and address racial justice.
   
 Focusing on Representation
We are committed to increasing representation of employees 
from diverse backgrounds at every level of our organization. 
We know that diverse leaders attract and retain diverse 
teams, so we focus our efforts on hiring, retention, growth, 
and development, including promotion of our employees. 
In 2020, we set and met goals to double the representation 
of Black directors and vice presidents, launch inclusion 
training for all Amazonians, and remove racially insensitive 
language in our tech documentation. We work with strategic 
partners focused on representation, including Management 
Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT), a nonprofit organization 
that works to strengthen recruitment and retention of Black, 
Latinx, and Native American employees. We are joining other 
employers in the MLT Black Equity at Work Certification, a 
new standard that requires employers to assess and make 
meaningful progress toward achieving Black equity internally 
while supporting Black equity in society.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
71 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Building on last year’s work, in 2021, we set company-wide 
goals for diversity, equity, and inclusion. We set goals for our 
vice president team to inspect any statistically significant 
demographic differences in 2021 first-quarter performance 
ratings and, on a monthly basis, any statistically significant 
demographic differences in attrition and low performance 
actions to identify root causes and, as necessary, implement 
action plans. We also set a goal to retain employees at 
statistically similar rates across all demographics. We will 
build a scalable mechanism in Connections, an employee 
feedback mechanism, to inspect inclusion sentiment by 
demographic for all employees and we will ensure that 
100% of Amazonians take company-wide, required inclusion 
training. We will build scalable mechanisms that address 
new instances of non-inclusive terms in our code.
For the second year in a row, we set a goal to double the 
number of U.S. Black employees in Level 8 (director) and 
Level 10 (vice president) positions year over year from 
2020 numbers. We also set a goal to increase hiring of 
U.S. Black employees in Level 4 through Level 7 positions 
by at least 30% year over year from 2020 hiring. Our 
goal is to increase the number of women at Level 8 and 
Level 10 positions—including senior principals, directors, 
vice presidents, and distinguished engineers—in tech and 
science roles by 30% year over year. We also set a goal to 
increase the number of U.S. Black software development 
engineer interns by at least 40%. 
These goals represent the next step in Amazon’s diversity, 
equity, and inclusion journey, not the final destination. It is 
going to take time and consistent focus to get where we 
want to be. Additionally, these goals represent only a slice 
of Amazon’s ongoing work in this area. Owners from across 
the company are focused on diversity, equity, and inclusion, 
from the way we select vendors and financial partners, 
to the way we use our online store to support our selling 
partners, to the way we roll out products and media to the 
world. We are using the same mechanisms that we use 
for our most important business initiatives to build a truly 
inclusive and equitable workplace, setting goals and holding 
regular reviews to ensure our progress. Since June 2020, the 
majority of the S-Team, Amazon’s top executives, has met 
biweekly to scrutinize our progress toward reaching these 
goals and removing barriers to delivery. At Amazon, we are 
working to shape a more equitable and inclusive future.
 Building an Inclusive Culture
To better understand what inclusion means for our 
employees, we conducted a global internal survey which led 
to Amazon’s definition of inclusion: “Being valued, trusted, 
connected, and informed so that we can deliver the best 
results for our customers.” We use this definition to guide 
us as we create educational initiatives, continually improve 
our mentorship program, and deliver benefits for all of our 
employees. 
Amazon has 13 employee-led affinity groups, comprised 
of more than 90,000 employees in hundreds of chapters 
globally who passionately and positively impact our 
company. Each affinity group has executive sponsors who 
support them in engaging at every level of the company. 
Groups include Amazon People with Disabilities; Amazon 
Women in Engineering; Asians@Amazon; Black Employee 
Network; Body Positive Peers; Families@Amazon; Glamazon 
(for LGBTQIA+ employees and allies); Indigenous@
Amazon; Latinos@Amazon; Mental Health and Well-Being; 
Warriors@Amazon; Women@Amazon; and Women in 
Finance Initiative. We engage and consult their leaders 
and seek their ideas to improve our inclusion efforts 
internally and externally. We are proud that our efforts have 
received recognition from the Human Rights Campaign’s 
Corporate Equality Index; the NAACP Equity, Inclusion, and 
Empowerment Index; and the Disability Equality Index.  
Indigenous@Amazon
Indigenous@Amazon is an inclusive employee affinity group 
dedicated to making an impact that celebrates and elevates 
diverse Indigenous cultures. The group fosters a community of 
Indigenous employees and allies through networking and shared 
experiences with the goal to make Amazon the premier employer 
for Indigenous people by increasing recruitment, representation, 
and retention of Indigenous people at Amazon. In 2020, the 
group participated in Amazon’s Represent the Future Summit, a 
career enrichment summit designed to uplift Native American, 
Black, and Latinx professionals through participation in sessions on 
building the future through innovation and on why representation 
and authenticity matter. Indigenous@Amazon also works with 
a variety of nonprofit organizations to support the growth and 
development of Indigenous Peoples and communities. This 
support ranges from donations to tribal communities impacted by 
current events to offering coding camps for Native Americans. INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
72 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Racial Justice and Equity
The inequitable and brutal treatment of Black people 
is unacceptable. We stand in solidarity with our Black 
employees, customers, and partners. We are committed to 
helping build a country and a world where everyone can live 
with dignity and free from fear. We will continue to support 
regulation that eliminates the unjust targeting of people 
based on race, including the George Floyd Justice in Policing 
Act, policies that protect and expand voting rights and 
provide better health and educational outcomes for Black 
and Brown communities around the world.
Amazon donated $10 million to organizations working to 
bring about social justice and improve the lives of Black and 
African Americans. Recipients—selected with the help of 
Amazon’s Black Employee Network (BEN)—include groups 
focused on combating systemic racism through the legal 
system as well as those dedicated to expanding educational 
and economic opportunity for Black communities. This initial 
donation was followed by a successful employee donation 
matching program that resulted in an additional $17 million 
going to these organizations in 2020. While it will take years 
of thoughtful focus and partnership to make the progress 
needed, Amazon is committed to being part of the solution. Amazon is proud to sign on to the Asian American and Pacific 
Islander (AAPI) Giving Challenge, joining leaders in business 
as a corporate partner for the launch of The Asian American 
Foundation (TAAF), a new nonprofit organization committed 
to accelerating opportunity and prosperity for Asian American 
and Pacific Islander communities. TAAF focuses on anti-hate 
efforts, data and research, and education. Amazon proudly 
supports the foundation’s stated mission of serving the 
community in the pursuit of belonging and prosperity, free 
from discrimination, slander, and violence.  
 
Enhancing Opportunity
We are invested in building out the next generation of 
diverse leaders. As part of our $50 million investment in 
computer science and STEM education, our Amazon Future 
Engineer program inspires, educates, and prepares children 
and young adults from underrepresented and underserved 
communities to pursue computer science. In 2021, we set a 
goal to reach 1.6 million underrepresented students globally 
through Amazon Future Engineer with real world-inspired 
virtual and hands-on computer science project learning. We 
actively partner with organizations and academic institutions 
that reach underrepresented communities like Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic Serving 
Institutions (HSIs), women’s colleges, and tribal colleges. 
This includes hosting hiring fairs in underrepresented 
communities around the world and committing to the HBCU 
Partnership Challenge to support greater engagement 
between private companies and HBCUs.  Asians@Amazon
Asians@Amazon provides a support structure and network for 
Pan-Asian communities. The group helps recruit, onboard, and 
connect employees of Asian descent across geographies by 
sharing experiences and providing access to career development, 
networking, and community building opportunities. They also 
host local community and recruiting events. For example, in 
2021 the group hosted an inclusion town hall to address the 
increased blame, racism, and xenophobia faced by Asian and 
Pacific Islanders after the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
event focused on healing and allyship, providing resources, and 
advocating for inclusion through anti-racist art and spoken word 
performances. 
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
73 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020We are also empowering women to lead in the 
technology industry. AWS has partnered with Girls in Tech, 
a global nonprofit committed to eliminating the gender 
gap in an industry where only 26% of computer scientists 
are women. Girls in Tech is among the organizations 
pushing hardest to provide women with access to jobs in 
technology through education, professional development, 
and community-building experiences. To enhance these 
efforts, AWS supports the Girls in Tech annual conference, 
its Digital Career Fair, a virtual hackathon focused on 
creating real-world technical solutions powered by 
women, and AMPLIFY, a startup pitch competition that 
helps entrepreneurs with funding and mentorship. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Obsessing Over Customer Inclusion 
Amazon’s focus on accessibility has made shopping and 
other daily experiences simpler for people with disabilities. 
We believe technology should be inclusive, accessible, and 
useful to everyone. By inventing new experiences that support 
all of our customers, we help create a more accessible world. 
While there’s much more to do, we continue to build accessibility 
features across our devices and services around the world and 
have been recognized for our efforts with the 2019 American 
Foundation for the Blind Helen Keller Achievement Award. 
 
Empowering Diverse Entrepreneurs
Through the Amazon business credentialing program, 
minority-owned, women-owned, veteran-owned, and 
LGBTQIA+-owned small businesses can promote their 
products. Customers can shop at storefronts that support 
women-owned businesses and Black-owned businesses, as 
well as at the Amazon Saheli store, which displays products 
from women entrepreneurs in India.  
 
LGBTQIA+ Rights 
The rights of LGBTQIA+ people must be protected. We 
were early and strong supporters of marriage equality 
and will continue to advocate for protections and equal 
rights for transgender people. We stand together with 
the LGBTQIA+ community and are working at the 
U.S. federal and state levels on legislation, including 
supporting passage of the Equality Act. Amazon provides 
gender transition benefits based on the Standards of 
Care published by the World Professional Association 
for Transgender Health. Amazon holds a gender identity 
conference to build community, educate those outside 
of the LGBTQIA+ community, and provide professional 
development opportunities for those at Amazon 
while transitioning openly in the workplace. We have 
a Transgender Toolkit for transgender and non-binary 
identifying employees, and we provide transgender-
inclusive health benefits for Amazon employees. We are 
proud to have our efforts recognized, scoring 100% on 
the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index 
for LGBTQ rights for the last three years.  
 
 
 
 
 
 ”“This is just one small step 
I am taking to help end 
systemic racism.  
I feel honored and 
grateful to work for an 
employer that shares 
these same values.  
– Cassi H., Amazon Employee
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
74 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020”“Amazon’s leadership and BEN 
have worked hand-in-hand to 
identify organizations in the Black 
community that make a difference 
and will contribute to them in a 
meaningful way. In addition to 
the organizations chosen, we will 
work with our chapters to identify 
local groups to support. We will 
continue conversations about how 
Amazon can support employees 
and the Black community.  
– Angelina Howard, former President of  
 Black Employee NetworkDiversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
Conferences
Building on our Leadership Principle of Learn and Be Curious, 
we organize conferences every year where employees can 
learn and exchange their ideas and experiences. Several of 
these conferences focused specifically on diversity issues.
Represent the Future is a career enrichment summit 
centered around uplifting Black, Latinx, and Native Amer-
ican communities. This event is open to participants from 
any organization around the world to learn more about 
Amazon’s customer-obsessed culture of diversity and 
inclusion that inspires everything we do. Recruiters and 
hiring managers from across Amazon share insights about 
Amazon’s 14 Leadership Principles, current job opportuni-
ties, and our application and interview process.
 
Conversations on Race and Ethnicity (CORE+) is a 
global brand of internal experiences that focuses on 
deepening Amazon employees’ understanding of sys-
temic barriers through conversations on topics related 
to intersectional identities, including race, ethnicity, and 
gender, with additional focus on nationality, ability, sexual 
orientation, military status, religion, age, and language. 
Amazon Global Diversity Summit is a professional 
development experience for Amazon’s diversity, equity, 
and inclusion global practitioners. This event focuses on 
industry-leading research, ideas, and mechanisms related 
to race, ethnicity, and social justice and highlights best 
practices pioneered by various business units. 
Global Accessibility Awareness Month is recognized 
each May at Amazon. Around the world, the month is full 
of events, technical talks, experiential trainings, podcasts, 
and workshops that showcase accessibility best practices. 
Employees take time throughout the month to learn about 
accessibility, even if it is not a part of their day-to-day work.   
AmazeWIT is a conference we host in India, bringing 
together women technologists, including Amazon’s tech-
nical leaders and external guests. The day-long event fo-
cuses on technology deep dives (including voice technol-
ogy, machine learning, Fire OS, and others) and leadership 
discussions with senior Amazonians and peer companies.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
75 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Representation  
matters.We track the 
representation of women 
and underrepresented 
communities because 
we know that diversity 
helps us build better 
teams that obsess over 
and better represent our 
global customer base. 
We have made year-over-
year progress, and we 
will continue to strive 
for better representation 
across our company. 
 
Pay Equity  
Amazon prioritizes pay equity. A review of the compensation 
awarded in 2020 at Amazon, including base pay, cash bonuses, 
and stock, shows that women employees in the U.S. were on 
par in pay equity with men, earning a dollar for every dollar 
that men earned performing the same jobs, and minorities 
earned 99.2 cents for every dollar that white employees earned 
performing these same jobs.See our workforce data on pages 77-79. INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
76 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020 76 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020The data included here is a three-year trend of our global  
gender and U.S. race and ethnicity data as of December 31, 2020.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
77 Amazon Sustainability Report | 202078 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES79 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESConsistent, honest, and open communication with our 
employees allows us to continuously improve our workplace 
experience, empowering individuals to raise concerns and 
have them directly addressed by leadership. Our goal is to 
hear from and listen to everyone. 
Below are some of the many ways an Amazon employee 
can choose to communicate with management.  
 
Open Door Philosophy
We believe candid and constructive communication in an 
environment of mutual respect is essential to our collective 
success. We have an open-door policy, which means 
we welcome and encourage any employee to discuss 
suggestions, concerns, or feedback with their manager, 
a Human Resources team member, or any member of 
Amazon’s leadership team.  
 
Voice of the Associate Boards
Voice of the Associate boards are in Amazon fulfillment 
centers around the globe—physically and virtually—
providing employees a forum for expressing their concerns, 
offering suggestions, and asking questions on a daily basis 
to leadership. Leadership teams reply directly to questions, 
promoting dialogue and efficient remediation of issues. In 
2020, our managers received and responded to more than 
245,000 comments, questions, and issues raised on the 
Voice of the Associate boards.  
 
Connections
Connections is a real-time, company-wide employee 
feedback mechanism designed to listen to and learn from 
employees at scale to improve the employee experience. 
Each day, Connections questions are delivered to every Amazon employee on a computer, a workstation device, or 
hand scanner generating more than 1.2 million responses 
from employees daily. Employees may choose to answer 
or not answer any question, and individual responses are 
aggregated and shared with managers at the team level to 
maintain confidentiality. Connections analyzes response data 
and provides insights to managers and leaders to review 
and take actions as they uncover issues or see opportunities 
to improve. Employees respond to Connections questions 
at more than 3,000 unique locations in 53 countries, and 
questions are delivered in 26 languages. 
Managers receive Connections data on a dashboard that 
looks like this, which shows aggregated responses for a 
specific set of questions:   
 
Appeals Process 
In the U.S. and Canada, Amazon’s appeals process is a dispute 
resolution mechanism for employees in certain stages of our 
fulfillment network to challenge certain disciplinary actions 
involving final written warnings and terminations. A second 
level manager or general manager may review the issues 
raised in an appeal, including management decisions, to 
determine if a policy or practice was applied properly and 
consistently. If not, we will remediate the issue consistent with Employee  
Engagement
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
80 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020our policies and practices. In June 2020, we introduced an 
online paperless appeal process, providing a more accessible 
experience for employees.  
 
Ethics Hotline
In performing their job duties, Amazon employees should 
always act lawfully, ethically, and in the best interests of 
Amazon. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of 
Conduct) sets out basic guiding principles for all employees. 
Employees may raise questions or report suspected violations 
of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics through 
Amazon’s Ethics Line globally, by phone or online. The Ethics 
Line is the second most utilized method for employees to 
raise concerns, and employees have used 30 of the 165 
languages available to do so. Reports to the Ethics Line are 
answered by an independent third party and may be made anonymously on request. Our Business Conduct and Ethics 
team records, reviews, and directs for investigation calls for 
potential violations of the Code and tracks cases through 
to remediation when necessary. Certain allegations of 
violations of the Code are also reported up to either the 
Audit Committee or the Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee.   
 
Executive Escalations
Suggestions or complaints emailed to a member of the 
senior leadership team are considered Executive Escalations. 
Any employee can utilize this method of providing a 
suggestion or raising a concern to leadership. All escalations 
are independently reviewed by Human Resources, used as a 
learning opportunity, and may be used to update our 
processes to prevent gaps in the future.  
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
81 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020 
Associate Insight Surveys 
Annual surveys ask employees to anonymously express 
opinions about issues in the workplace, and managers 
respond by remediating issues or making improvements.  
 
Regular In-Person Meetings While 
Maintaining Social Distancing
Through all-hands meetings with general managers, 
stand-up meetings with direct supervisors, and one-on-
one meetings, employees have daily opportunities to 
engage with leaders, raise issues, and make suggestions 
to continually improve our workplace. 
 
Associate Roundtables 
The purpose of Associate Roundtable meetings is to provide 
leaders and associates with a meaningful opportunity to 
discuss issues. Leaders hear directly from hourly associates, 
who can ask questions about any topic and get immediate 
feedback. Associates are able to share their thoughts of 
their job, their work environment, and any challenges they 
face. The leadership team uses the information to improve 
the workplace and the associate experience.   
 
Associate Forums
In Associate Forums—active in a number of countries, 
including the UK, Poland, and Slovakia—associates, elected 
by their peers, meet regularly with management to discuss 
associate ideas, issues, and concerns, and engage in 
projects and activities to build employee engagement.  
 
Freedom of Association
We respect freedom of association and our employees’ 
right to join, form, or not to join a labor union or other 
lawful organization of their own selection, without fear 
of reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. These rights 
should be exercised in an informed and thoughtful 
manner. Amazon has a variety of elected associate 
forums and work councils around the world, and Amazon has associates represented by some form of 
collective bargaining in many countries. In the first 
quarter of 2021, the National Labor Relations Board 
oversaw a union vote at our fulfillment center in 
Bessemer, Alabama. In the end, employees made the 
choice to vote against joining a union; less than 16% of 
employees voted to support joining the union.
We value worker feedback, and are committed to 
providing our employees with grievance mechanisms 
and remedial action, regardless of collective bargaining 
presence. We firmly believe it is in the best interests of 
our employees and our company to continue our direct 
communications, and the best way to effect positive 
change is for our employees and managers to continue 
working together directly. We work hard to listen to our 
employees, make continuous improvements, and invest 
heavily to offer competitive pay and benefits in a safe 
and inclusive workplace.  
 
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
82 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Amazon is strongly committed to conducting our business 
in a lawful and ethical manner, including engaging with 
suppliers who respect human rights, provide safe and 
inclusive workplaces, and promote a sustainable future.Supply Chain
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
83 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Our Selling Partners
Selling partners are third-party sellers and retail vendors 
who offer products for sale in Amazon’s stores. Our Supply 
Chain Standards apply to every product sold in our stores 
and we expect selling partners to do their own due diligence, 
ensuring every product is produced in safe, healthy, and 
inclusive work environments. We evaluate credible allegations 
or reports of selling partner violations of our Supply Chain 
Standards, including but not limited to those published by 
governments, reputable investigators, journalists, or human 
rights defenders. If we have reason to suspect certain 
products do not meet our Supply Chain Standards, we may 
request that the selling partner demonstrate the products 
it sells in our store were manufactured in accordance with 
Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards, such as providing evidence 
of auditing protocols, showing processes for assessing 
factory working conditions, engaging in unannounced audits, 
participating in an approved industry association that includes 
factory monitoring, or verifying where the products are made.Our goal is for our products and services to be provided in a 
way that respects human rights and the environment. Our 
global teams work closely with suppliers to communicate 
our standards and help suppliers build their capacity to 
provide working environments that are safe and respectful 
of human rights.  
 
Our Approach 
Our standards reflect that we are committed to respecting 
and supporting the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights, the UN Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights, the Core Conventions of the ILO, and the 
ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work. To ensure our policies and programs incorporate 
these internationally recognized human rights standards, 
we conduct formal benchmarking with industry peers and 
multi-stakeholder organizations to continually improve our 
program. At least every three years in line with industry best 
practices, we review our Supply Chain Standards against 
policies developed by industry associations (such as the 
Responsible Business Alliance and the Consumer Goods 
Forum) and in consultation with external stakeholders, 
including Nest, Business for Social Responsibility , Impactt 
Limited, and Verité.
Top 5 Sourcing Countries
China
United States
India  
Vietnam  
Japan   Supply Chain Standards
We set a high bar for ourselves and our suppliers.  
Our Supply Chain Standards detail the requirements 
and expectations for our suppliers, their supply chains, 
and selling partners who list products in our stores. 
They are grounded in principles of inclusivity, continuous 
improvement, and supply chain accountability. We 
engage with suppliers that are committed to these 
same principles; suppliers are subject to these standards 
as a condition of doing business with us.  Responsible  
Sourcing Program
DOWNLOAD AND READ  
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN STANDARDSINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
84 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Supply Chain Transparency
We believe supply chain transparency is essential to our 
approach to human rights due diligence and to ensuring 
worker protections. The suppliers that produce Amazon-
branded apparel, consumer electronics, food and beverage, 
and home goods products are shown on our supply chain 
map, which is updated annually and is available for download. 
We publish a supplier list to provide customers and external 
stakeholders visibility into where we source and to contribute 
to transparency efforts across industries. When we receive 
information about potential issues in our supply chain, we 
investigate and take appropriate action to remediate.  
 
Risk Assessments
We routinely evaluate our supply chain to understand the 
highest risks to workers and prioritize our efforts. To do this, 
we engage key internal and external stakeholders, analyze 
our risks using international risk indices such as the World 
Bank’s Worldwide Governance Indicators, run worker surveys, 
and conduct assessments that include worker interviews, 
management interviews, document review, and on-site visits. 
We regularly consult industry experts to review our approach 
to risk assessment against globally recognized international 
standards and industry best practices.  
 
Supplier Assessments 
Our Responsible Sourcing Program focuses on suppliers of 
Amazon-branded products, consisting of Amazon Private 
Brands, Amazon devices, and a curated selection of brands 
exclusively sold in Amazon’s store. Through this program, 
we engage in robust supplier due diligence, prioritizing 
mechanisms that drive continuous improvement. We are 
committed to working with our suppliers to remedy issues 
and establish systems to prevent future issues. We expect 
our suppliers to consistently monitor and enforce our 
standards in their own operations and supply chain as well 
as make improvements to meet or exceed our expectations. 
We use independent auditors to verify supplier compliance 
with our Supply Chain Standards though regular on-site 
inspections and confidential worker interviews. 
Our approach is based on a commitment to workers and to 
continuous improvement; we put the safety and interests 
of workers first. Suppliers are required to meaningfully participate in any investigation and take immediate action 
in the event that issues are found. An acceptable corrective 
action plan details the root cause of the issue and the steps, 
both short-term and long-term, supplier management will 
take to fix it. In most situations, we will support suppliers 
through the remediation process, but where a supplier 
refuses to remediate, we may choose to terminate the 
relationship. Failure to meet our standards has been a factor 
in our decision to terminate hundreds of suppliers.  
Learn more about our process in our Supplier Manual, 
which provides guidance and resources to suppliers of 
Amazon-branded products on how to meet and exceed the 
expectations outlined in our Supply Chain Standards.
Supplier submits an Amazon  
approved audit of facility
If issues are identified, Amazon will issue a 
request for a Corrective Action Plan
Remediation of identified issues is tracked 
through follow-on verification audits 
Once in production, supplier is audited  
on a regular, ongoing basis
If a supplier refuses to remediate an issue,  
Amazon may choose to terminate the 
relationshipKey stages of supplier assessment  
and issue remediation:INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
85 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020  
About Our Assessment Results
We assess our suppliers of Amazon-branded products 
across four main categories: 1) Labor, 2) Health and Safety, 
3) Environment, and 4) Ethics. These categories are divided 
into subcategories, such as non-discrimination, emergency 
preparedness, hazardous substances, and transparency. 
Findings within each subcategory are flagged as High, 
Medium, or Low depending on the level of severity. 
Amazon focuses on setting a high bar for new suppliers and 
refusing to go to production until suppliers remediate High 
level findings identified in our assessments. We recognize 
that some issues may take time to effectively remediate. For 
Medium level issues, we expect suppliers to show they are 
making meaningful progress toward remediation within a 
defined timeline. For Low level issues, we monitor  suppliers for continuous improvement. We have dedicated 
teams based in key sourcing countries around the globe 
that work directly with our suppliers to identify solutions to 
challenging problems and promote open dialogue. We seek 
to create long-term relationships with suppliers who align 
with our values and are committed to constantly improving 
conditions for workers. Where we see trends in issues 
beyond individual suppliers, such as widespread health 
and safety deficits or industry-wide failures to responsibly 
protect migrant workers, we work to define regional or 
global strategies to address underlying systemic challenges. 
See our supplier assessment  
results on page 112. INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
86 Amazon Sustainability Report | 20202011
Launched Amazon’s Social 
Responsibility Program and 
Supplier Code of Conduct
 
2015
Joined the Responsible 
Business Association 
(formerly the Electronics 
Industry Citizenship 
Coalition)
 
2017
Joined Sedex  
 2018
Joined amfori  
Signed the Responsible 
Sourcing Network Cotton 
Pledge for Turkmenistan 
and Uzbekistan
Became a steering 
committee member of Tech 
Against Trafficking 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019
Published Global Human 
Rights Principles
Published public supplier 
list and map for Amazon-
branded products
Published Supply Chain 
Standards Manual
Announced Key Supply 
Chain Commitments
Began partnership with ILO 
SCORE
Began partnership with BSR 
HERproject
Launched forced labor 
training for Amazon 
employeesBegan partnership with the 
Better Buying Initiative
Joined the Sustainable 
Apparel Coalition
Began partnership with 
Truckers Against Trafficking  
 
2020
Began using the Higg Index 
to collect and evaluate 
suppliers’ environmental 
practices
Invested $1.3 million in 
organizations supporting 
COVID-19 response in our 
supply chain
Began partnership with 
Swasti
Joined the Nest Steering 
Committee
Began partnership with the 
Amader Kotha Helpline in 
Bangladesh
Published first 
comprehensive People 
section of our Sustainability 
Report 
Initiated Amazon’s first 
human rights saliency 
assessment with Article OneConducted Amazon’s first 
Human Rights Impact 
Assessment
Joined the Public-Private 
Alliance for the Responsible 
Minerals Trade
 
2021
Joined the Better Cotton 
Initiative’s (BCI) Retailer and 
Brand Advisory Panel on 
Traceability
Became a pilot sponsor of 
the Responsible Sourcing 
Network initiative, YESS: 
Yarn Ethically & Sustainably 
Sourced
Joined the Centre for 
Child Rights and Business 
working group 
Added our apparel suppliers 
to the Open Apparel 
Registry
Responsible Sourcing 
Program Timeline INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
87 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Our Progress  
in 2020
In 2020, we restructured our program to respond to the 
social and economic crises our suppliers and their workers 
faced because of the COVID-19 pandemic.  
 
Supporting Workers, Suppliers,  
and Communities During COVID-19
Amazon is committed to supporting our suppliers, their 
workers, and their communities as they are impacted by 
COVID-19. Of course, the global COVID-19 pandemic made 
2020 a particularly challenging year, as suppliers faced 
massive supply chain disruption, workers were displaced, 
and communities experienced unimaginable loss. We 
immediately went to work to address these challenges. 
We adapted our due diligence. In 2020, we had to 
change how we assessed suppliers. With COVID-19 
restrictions, it was much harder to conduct on-site 
assessments. We continued to utilize traditional audits 
when it was safe to do so, but when on-site audits became 
challenging or impossible due to safety restrictions, we 
adopted new mechanisms to assess risk, including self-
assessment questionnaires and remote document review. 
We engaged suppliers.  We developed guidance and 
trainings for suppliers on how to support and protect 
workers during the pandemic. We educated managers on 
workplace hygiene and proper use of personal protective 
equipment (PPE) to prevent the spread of COVID-19. We 
also encouraged suppliers to continue pay for workers 
during shutdowns, recognizing the extraordinary toll layoffs 
are taking on the workforce.  
 
 
 We invested in workers. In 2020, we created a $1.3 
million fund to invest in organizations providing critical 
frontline support to workers impacted by COVID-19. 
For example, we provided support to organizations like 
the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in 
Bangladesh to distribute medical supplies and COVID-
19-related resources for frontline doctors, nurses, and 
medical workers operating in the largest refugee camp in 
the world. The contribution supported the procurement 
of lifesaving PPE—approximately 322,000 gloves, 
16,000 gowns and coveralls, 18,300 N95 respirators, 
and 119,000 face shields—for 23 IOM-managed health 
facilities, serving to benefit both refugee and host 
community populations in the region. 
We listened to workers. We increased our investment in 
Amader Kotha, meaning ‘Our Voice’ in Bengali, a helpline 
that provides workers in the Bangladesh ready-made 
garment sector a safe and effective way to report and 
resolve workplace issues. In 2020, we enrolled 23 Amazon 
suppliers in Amader Kotha’s program. For every worker 
call, the helpline follows a defined protocol to address the 
reported issue until it is resolved with their employer. 
For example, in December 2020, Amader Kotha received a 
call from a worker employed with one of our Bangladesh 
suppliers. The worker reported verbal and physical abuse 
and retaliatory firing when they refused to complete 
overtime after regular work hours. Amader Kotha 
immediately connected with the supplier’s compliance team 
to investigate the issue. As a result, the supplier rehired 
the aggrieved worker and dismissed the two employees 
who had harassed them. In 2021, we will enroll additional 
Amazon suppliers with Amader Kotha and launch training 
for workers on how to make use of this resource.  INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
88 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020We engaged in responsible purchasing practices  
and learned about impact to workers.  Since the 
beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, Amazon has 
honored all orders to our global suppliers from our 
U.S. and European private-label apparel businesses. We 
also worked with Better Buying, an initiative working to 
improve purchasing practices in global supply chains, to 
conduct a survey of our suppliers in Vietnam and their 
workers on the impacts of our practices during COVID-19. 
We received more than 1,300 worker responses, 
indicating that their primary concerns were unstable 
personal finances related to business uncertainty during 
COVID-19, changes to forecasted orders, and factory 
safety concerns linked to shipment date pressures. 
Suppliers gave positive feedback on several aspects of our 
practices, including our increased communication during 
COVID-19, decisions to honor orders, and flexibility on 
delivery times.  
 
Commodity Traceability
In 2020, we continued to map deeper tiers of our 
Amazon-branded product supply chains in order to 
identify the most salient and material risks. Commodity 
supply chains are complicated and fragmented, and 
improved visibility into raw material supply chains enables 
businesses to identify human rights and labor rights 
violations and hold suppliers accountable.  We focused on cotton. In 2020, we strengthened 
our efforts on cotton. Amazon has joined other brands 
as a member of Better Cotton Initiative’s Retailer and 
Brand Advisory Panel on Traceability. In 2021, Amazon is 
sponsoring and participating in the RSN initiative YESS: Yarn 
Ethically & Sustainably Sourced. YESS works to address forced 
labor in the cotton value chain by providing training to, and 
managing the assessment of, spinners and fabric mills to 
identify and address forced labor in cotton production.  
 
We focused on minerals. In 2020, we became a 
member of the Public-Private Alliance for the Responsible 
Minerals Trade (PPA), and expanded our participation in 
the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). We committed 
to supporting the PPA’s on-the-ground efforts to promote 
responsible trade, and became active members of RMI’s 
working groups on Smelter Engagement and Cobalt due 
diligence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Health and safety issues have always been a key focus 
of our Responsible Sourcing Program, and COVID-19 
demonstrated the importance of health and safety 
standards in protecting worker well-being. 
At the onset of COVID-19, Amazon partnered with Swasti, 
a global nonprofit committed to ensuring access to quality 
healthcare for workers in marginalized communities. Swasti 
adjusted its worker well-being program to provide support 
to workers in factories impacted by COVID-19. With our 
support, Swasti set up a worker helpline, developed health 
protocols for workers to return to work safely, and provided 
critical mental health, healthcare, and social entitlement 
support to workers, their families and their communities. 
Swasti trained worker-led response teams on COVID-19 prevention and management; the teams educated other 
workers by showing videos on the factory floor and posting 
critical health information. Swasti also provided remote 
healthcare to workers and reached out to workers and their 
family members to identify COVID-19 risks and provide 
medical support. When Swasti identified a pandemic-
related food shortage at a program site, it distributed food 
to employees who were in need. 
Aside from COVID-19 specific work, Swasti also provides 
workers with primary healthcare and programs on gender 
equity, financial inclusion, and strengthening workers 
committees at sites to promote better communication 
channels between management and workers.  Supporting Worker Health and Safety with SwastiCASE STUDYINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
89 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020In 2020, Amazon partnered with Nest, a nonprofit 
supporting the growth and development of the global 
artisan sector to build a world of greater gender equity 
and economic inclusion. We supported Nest’s PPE 
Purchasing Initiative—a program that purchased over 
200,000 protective masks from artisan and maker 
businesses for delivery to front-line workers. In 2020, this 
program provided over $500,000 in economic relief to 57 
businesses, employing 10,510 skilled artisans. 
We also partnered with Nest to provide more than 100 
COVID-19 economic relief grants to artisan businesses 
around the globe. For example, Nest provided a grant 
to Indego Africa, an organization that provides artisans 
with a global market for their handmade products and 
educational opportunities for women-owned businesses 
in Africa. Sapna Shah, Indego Africa’s Director of Brand 
and Operating Strategy, shared that because of this 
funding, Indego Africa was able to provide consistent 
purchase orders to the company’s artisan partners for 
their handmade products, protecting them from economic 
disruption due to COVID-19.  
As part of its grant program, Nest also supported a Digital 
Marketing Fellowship for Kay Kay’s Fashion, a Black-owned, 
woman-owned hair accessories company in Southfield, 
Michigan. When applying to the program, business owner 
Kelechi Uchendu outlined her need as: “strengthen[ing] my 
brand DNA and also working on increasing my business 
to consumer sales.” Nest matched Uchendu with an 
integrated marketer and brand strategist with 10 years 
of experience in e-commerce. Together, they developed a 
project plan, resulting in updated language for Uchendu’s 
business website, a brand presentation she could use for 
marketing, and tools to help Kay Kay’s Fashion deepen its 
online presence.
Nest distributed another Digital Marketing Fellowship grant 
to a woman-owned small business Espacio Handmade, 
an Austin, Texas, company specializing in leather goods 
sourced from and crafted in the U.S. Nest matched the company’s owner, Katrina Marhefka with a professional 
digital marketing agency that helped her launch a 
successful e-mail marketing campaign. Marhefka is a 
business leader and a maker who is proud to hire women. 
“Leatherworking is seen as such a male-dominated skill. 
Not anymore!” she says. Marhefka’s participation in the 
fellowship helped her develop systems and identify 
business opportunities. 
Amazon Handmade, a destination in our online store that 
specializes in handcrafted goods, has launched a program 
to highlight the work of Nest artisan businesses, including 
Indego Africa, Kay Kay’s Fashion, and Espacio Handmade, 
providing access to selling and growth opportunities.Supporting Artisans During COVID-19
”“One of the major things 
that I learned was how 
to brand my company 
properly and how to clean 
up my website so that  
it really showcases  
my brand.  
– Kelechi Uchendu, Owner of Kay Kay’s FashionCASE STUDY
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
90 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Supply Chain 
Commitments
We evaluate our supply chain to identify the industries, 
countries, and issues where we have the greatest 
opportunities to identify and address risks and have a 
positive impact on workers. In the event that we identify 
an issue in our supply chain, we act fast and prioritize 
solutions from the workers’ point of view. We work with 
industry partners to tackle systemic issues and implement 
programs that support continuous improvement for our 
suppliers and workers. As a part of our due diligence 
efforts to identify, prevent, and mitigate adverse impacts, 
we leverage internal and external data and guidance from 
external stakeholders, including industry experts, civil 
society groups, and non-governmental organizations. 
We are committed to assessing our impact and focusing 
our efforts in the following key commitment areas:  
 
Safe Workplaces 
Safe and healthy workplaces are a top priority for Amazon. 
We have global teams who partner with suppliers to 
increase worker awareness of safety issues, promote 
worker participation in their facility’s safety culture, and 
promote initiatives focused on the well-being of workers 
on issues that matter most to them.
Our suppliers must provide workers with a safe and 
healthy work environment; suppliers must, at a minimum, 
comply with applicable laws regarding working conditions. 
Additionally, we are committed to driving improvement in 
these key priority areas: (1) occupational safety, including 
adequate machine safeguarding, and ensuring suppliers 
continually identify, evaluate, and control physically 
demanding tasks to ensure that worker health and safety is 
not jeopardized; (2) emergency preparedness and response planning; and (3) sanitation and housing; if suppliers 
provide residential facilities for their workers, they must 
provide clean and safe accommodations.
We conduct on-site assessments of Amazon-branded 
suppliers to determine safety conditions throughout 
our business relationship. This includes assessments 
of protections such as adequate fire safety systems, 
sanitary dormitories and facilities, and adequate machine 
safeguarding. We require that these suppliers address 
material safety issues prior to beginning production with 
Amazon. Assessment results are reviewed regularly by the 
leadership of our Amazon-branded businesses, and corrective 
action plans are implemented with suppliers as needed.
In 2020, we expanded our work with the ILO’s Sustaining 
Competitive and Responsible Enterprises (SCORE) program, 
a lean manufacturing program focused on improving 
productivity and working conditions in small- and medium-
sized manufacturers. At the onset of the pandemic, SCORE INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
91 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020training helped factories plan their production schedule, 
reorganize production lines, and implement guidelines for 
more social distance and increased safety. We worked with 
suppliers in India and China to provide them training and 
assistance in implementing improvement plans across five 
areas: workplace cooperation, health and safety, quality 
management, clean production, and human resources. 
Through SCORE, we have provided training on workplace 
health and safety to 4,398 workers in our supply chain. 
To date, Amazon suppliers enrolled in SCORE training 
have completed 1,517 projects to improve workplace 
health and safety, drawing from the 1,219 improvement 
recommendations submitted by workers. So far, eight sites 
have achieved SCORE participation certificates from SCORE 
Academy, demonstrating they have integrated SCORE 
methodology into their policies and operations.  
 
Freely Chosen Employment 
We will not tolerate the use of forced labor in our supply 
chain. Our Supply Chain Standards prohibit all forms of 
forced labor and human trafficking; this includes charging 
workers recruitment fees, holding passports or personal 
documentation, and coercion to work through threats of 
deportation or contacting immigration authorities. During 
assessments of Amazon-branded suppliers, we track 
where workers migrated from and how much they paid 
in recruitment fees. If fees have been paid, we require the 
supplier to reimburse workers in full. Forced labor is a hidden 
crime that is hard to combat. We recognize real progress 
in this space will only be achieved through collaborative 
action—by companies, governments, and civil society—to 
spur system-wide change. Learn more about our approach 
to forced labor in our annual Modern Slavery Statement. 
Amazon is currently working with these organizations to 
devise holistic approaches to combating forced labor.
Polaris: Amazon supports Polaris, a non-profit that 
assists trafficking victims and survivors. Through the U.S. 
National Human Trafficking Hotline, Polaris has have 
identified and responded to more than 63,000 cases of 
human trafficking and labor exploitation since 2007. AWS 
works with Polaris to infuse cutting-edge technology into 
its infrastructure to accelerate the development of the 
largest known U.S. data set on trafficking. Polaris uses 
that data to understand and improve the way trafficking 
is identified, how victims and survivors are assisted, and 
how to prevent this abuse.Responsible Labor Initiative: The Responsible Labor 
Initiative is a multi-industry, multi-stakeholder initiative 
focused on ensuring that the rights of workers vulnerable 
to forced labor in global supply chains are consistently 
respected and promoted.
StolenYouth: Amazon partners with StolenYouth, a 
Seattle-based organization with the mission to end 
child sex trafficking in the state of Washington through 
prevention, connecting trafficked youth to resources 
and services, and empowering survivors along their 
path to recovery and a promising future. We support 
StolenYouth by providing both financial support and 
goods donations.
Tech Against Trafficking: Tech Against Trafficking (TAT) is 
a coalition of companies collaborating with global experts 
to help eradicate human trafficking using technology. 
Amazon sits on the TAT steering committee and has 
leveraged the expertise and resources of AWS to help scale 
tech solutions in the anti-trafficking field.
Truckers Against Trafficking: We are an official 
corporate sponsor of Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT), an 
organization dedicated to combating human trafficking in 
the trucking industry, and began incorporating TAT training 
modules into trainings for our internal fleet of drivers 
to teach them how to identify and respond to potential 
victims of human trafficking. As of January 2021, we have 
trained 100% of Amazon employees who drive trucks. 
Thorn: Thorn, an organization that builds technology to 
defend children from sexual abuse, leverages AWS machine 
learning tools in their product Spotlight. Spotlight’s 
sophisticated machine learning capabilities save time 
for investigators by automatically flagging ads likely to 
represent at-risk children. Investigators can set customized 
alerts and search Spotlight’s constantly growing database 
of ads to aid in their investigations. Spotlight has helped 
identify more than 17,000 child sex trafficking victims.
Unseen: We support the UK modern slavery helpline 
Unseen, investing in their efforts to provide immediate and 
long-term assistance to potential victims of modern slavery 
and to ensure the helpline’s continued growth. The helpline 
provides direct response and services to potential victims 
of modern slavery, as well as trainings and programming to 
support victims.  
 INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
92 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Gender Equity 
Gender equity is a fundamental human right and a 
necessary foundation to a truly sustainable supply chain. 
Quality jobs for women translate to positive impacts for 
communities, and we are actively working to empower 
women to make their own decisions on health, finances, 
and career development. Amazon partners with BSR’s 
HERproject, an initiative that brings together global brands, 
their suppliers, and local partners to create and implement 
workplace-based interventions on health, financial 
inclusion, and gender equality. Through our partnership 
with HERproject, we engage suppliers in China, Bangladesh, 
Vietnam, and India. As of 2021, we have reached nearly 
12,000 women with HERproject programming, including 
training on health and financial skills, and building the 
capacity of workers and factory management to combat 
gender-based discrimination in the workplace.  
 
Fair Wages 
We are committed to working closely with suppliers, 
business partners, and multi-stakeholder associations to 
monitor and promote continuous improvement in working 
conditions, including fair and on-time payment of wages. 
We have dedicated teams across the globe that work 
directly with suppliers to track and report performance 
against these standards.
Our suppliers are required to pay legally required 
compensation (including overtime and benefits) and we 
encourage them to continuously evaluate whether their 
workers earn enough to meet their basic needs and the 
needs of their families. 
We require Amazon-branded suppliers in a number of 
regions to enroll in Better Work—a partnership between 
the International Labor Organization and the International 
Finance Corporation, a member of the World Bank Group, 
focused on improving working conditions, respect for 
labor rights, and making the global garment sector more 
competitive. By working with factories and training workers 
on their rights, Better Work supports greater compliance 
with national labor laws and international labor standards. 
We are launching in-depth research into fair wages within 
our Amazon-branded products supply chains, with a 2021 
goal of identifying opportunities for future programming.  
 Environmental Protection 
Our aim is to ensure that the manufacturing of our products 
does not cause unnecessary environmental harm. We are a 
member of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (Coalition), an 
industry-wide group of leading apparel and footwear brands, 
retailers, manufacturers, non-governmental organizations, 
academic experts, and government organizations working 
to reduce the environmental and social impacts of apparel 
products around the world. We encourage our Amazon-
branded suppliers to evaluate their practices using the 
Coalition’s Higg Index, a tool to help manufacturers measure 
the social and environmental performance of their facilities. 
We are committed to driving adoption of this assessment 
and helping our suppliers understand their environmental 
impacts. In 2021, Amazon established a goal to collect 
environmental performance data from 200 suppliers by the 
end of the year.
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
93 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020At Amazon, we are focused on leveraging our scale and 
assets for good to strengthen communities where our 
employees and customers live and work. We work side by 
side with community partners to find solutions to some of 
the world’s most pressing challenges and build long-term, 
innovative programs that have a lasting, positive impact.Community
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
94 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Amazon believes that all people should have access 
to housing they can afford. In January 2021, Amazon 
launched the Housing Equity Fund, a commitment of 
more than $2 billion to preserve and create more than 
20,000 affordable homes in three communities where we 
have a high concentration of employees: Washington’s 
Puget Sound region; Washington, D.C., and Arlington, 
Virginia, metropolitan areas; and Nashville, Tennessee. 
The Housing Equity Fund helps create inclusive housing 
developments and preserve existing housing through 
below-market loans and grants to non-traditional 
and traditional housing partners, public agencies, and 
minority-led organizations. Our first commitment 
included more than $380 million in below-market loans 
and grants to the Washington Housing Conservancy to 
preserve and create up to 1,300 affordable homes in 
Arlington, Virginia. Amazon has also committed more 
than $185 million in below-market loans and grants to 
King County Housing Authority to preserve up to 1,000 
affordable homes in the Puget Sound area. 
Amazon made additional donations in support of 
affordable housing in 2020. We donated $3 million to 
four legal service providers to help support families 
in need of pro-bono legal housing support in the 
Washington, D.C., and Arlington, Virginia, metropolitan 
areas. We also helped preserve home ownership for 
hundreds of residents in Nashville, Tennessee, with a 
$2.25 million donation to The Housing Fund. With this 
donation, The Housing Fund will make financial grants 
available to help ensure that families can keep their 
homes and maintain critical, long-term financial stability.
Amazon has also committed more than $130 million 
to our nonprofit partners who are working to fight 
homelessness. In 2020, we opened the doors to a permanent eight-floor shelter inside an Amazon office 
building at our Puget Sound headquarters in partnership 
with Mary’s Place, a Seattle-based provider serving 
families experiencing homelessness. The shelter is the 
largest family shelter in the state of Washington, with 
space for 200 guests each night. The facility features 
an on-site health clinic, an industrial kitchen with the 
capacity to produce approximately 600,000 meals 
annually, recreation areas for children of all ages to play, 
and dedicated space for in-person and virtual pro bono 
legal support, resume reviews, and online learning.
 
”
“Amazon’s donation will 
help us keep more families 
in their homes, which is 
always our ultimate goal, 
because home ownership 
is the key to long-term 
wealth building. For these 
families, these grants will 
be game-changing.  
– Marshall Crawford, CEO, The Housing Fund
to preserve and create  
affordable homesINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
Housing
Equity
95 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Amazon believes that no family should go without a way 
to address their basic needs. In 2020, Amazon made 
in-kind and cash donations equivalent to more than 20 
million meals and 13 million essential items to nonprofits, 
food banks, and strategic partners. We also committed 
a total of $6.2 million through our Right Now Needs 
Fund, a flexible fund designed to meet the basic needs 
of schoolchildren and help eliminate barriers to learning. 
These funds have already provided support to more 
than 28,000 students with food, shelter, clothing, school 
supplies, and hygiene items in the states of Washington 
and Virginia.  
 Access to  
Food and  
Basic Needs
28K
Students receiving support through 
Amazon’s Right Now Needs Fund Amazon Operations Teams Deliver Basic Needs
In 2020, more than 26,000 Amazon operations employees and 
delivery partners identified needs in communities where they 
live and work, and Amazon donated $7.9 million to meet these 
community needs, benefiting 260 nonprofit organizations and 1.6 
million community members globally in Central Eastern Europe, 
Italy, France, and the UK. Employees of our operations centers 
and delivery stations also delivered meals and essential supplies; 
hosted food, clothing, and school-supply drives; and organized 
more than 1,000 events to support local community needs. INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
96 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020COVID-19
Community  
Response
Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, Amazon has 
helped customers, provided community relief, and invested 
in cutting-edge research. We invested tens of millions of 
dollars into these efforts and distributed critical supplies to 
communities across the world, including 4.5 million masks, 
273,000 gallons of hand sanitizer, 140,000 medical gowns, 
124,000 face shields, 40,000 hygiene kits, and thousands 
of contactless thermometers. To support food banks and 
community organizations, we donated delivery services 
of groceries and pre-packaged meals using our network 
of Amazon Flex Delivery and Delivery Service Partners. 
We delivered more than 12 million meals to seniors, 
underserved families, and school children in communities 
across the U.S., the UK, Australia, Singapore, and Spain. 
Amazon also delivered thousands of laptops and wireless 
devices on behalf of school districts to low-income 
students in order to support distance learning.  
 
Expanding Access for Vaccines 
Amazon is leveraging our scale to get vaccines to people 
in need. We lent our support to the Biden administration 
in its effort to vaccinate 100 million people in the first 100 
days of Biden’s presidency, vaccinating thousands of people 
through pop-up clinics at Amazon facilities in Washington, 
Virginia, and Florida. We also developed a Pop-Up Vaccine 
Clinic Playbook to help other companies and organizations 
execute similar vaccination clinics.  
 Neighborhood Small Business Relief Fund
In 2020, Amazon launched the Neighborhood Small 
Business Relief Fund to provide cash grants and free rent to 
Seattle small businesses that needed assistance. Through 
this fund, Amazon disbursed $11 million in relief to more 
than 900 small businesses, supporting local jobs and 
helping small businesses confront the economic challenges 
of the COVID-19 pandemic.  
100 million
Lent support to vaccinate 
100 million people in the 
first 100 days of Biden’s 
presidencyINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
97 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020A WS Initiatives and Response  
to COVID-19 
AWS is providing highly scalable and reliable 
infrastructure capacity, technical support, and services 
to help customers with their research, remote work and 
learning, and other solutions to address their needs and 
the effects that the COVID-19 pandemic is having on 
communities and businesses. 
 
AWS Diagnostic Development Initiative
In 2020, we launched the AWS Diagnostic Development 
Initiative to accelerate COVID-19 research. The initiative 
supports AWS customers working on diagnostic solutions 
and improving collaboration across organizations solving 
similar problems. As part of this, Amazon committed an 
initial investment of $20 million to accelerate diagnostic 
research, innovation, and development to speed our 
collective understanding and detection of COVID-19.  
 
COVID-19 “Infodemic” Knowledge Platform
A new project led by Imperial College London and enabled 
by AWS is responding to the COVID-19 “infodemic” with the creation of a global knowledge platform. The platform, 
known as Realtime Data Analysis and Synthesis (REDASA), 
pools global data on COVID-19 from over half a million 
sources and combines human curation with AWS machine 
learning services to perform deep data analysis. This helps 
the healthcare community find important insights in real 
time, make sense of the vast amounts of information 
pouring in, and develop plans to accelerate research and 
development.  
 
Helping Migrants Stay Safe During the Pandemic
AWS is supplying the International Organization for 
Migration (IOM) with advanced cloud technologies and 
technical expertise to accelerate its efforts to help migrants 
around the world stay safe during the COVID-19 crisis. We 
are developing a machine learning tool to help the IOM 
collect and analyze high volumes of COVID-19-related 
content from around the globe and to provide up-to-date 
information on border and travel restrictions. We are also 
helping the IOM proactively respond to the increasing 
volume of requests from migrants for information and 
help, enhancing a new website by integrating it with a 
multi-lingual cloud call center and chatbot.
The AWS InCommunities team develops innovative, long-
term initiatives to foster lasting impact around the world, 
specifically in communities where we build and operate 
our global infrastructure. In 2020, AWS InCommunities 
leveraged its global reach to better serve local 
communities tackling the spread of COVID-19, including in 
Umatilla, Oregon, where we worked to make sure residents 
had access to basic needs. We collaborated with the 
Umatilla Electric Cooperative (UEC) and Hermiston Energy 
Services (HES) to support electricity relief for local residents 
who had applied to a payment assistance program. We donated over half a million dollars to the communities 
that UEC and HES serve and helped pay utility bills for 
more than 1,000 families. “The effectiveness and reach 
of the payment assistance program will be amplified by 
our collaboration with AWS,” said Lisa McMeen, UEC’s VP 
of Administration. “With such uncertainty and hardship 
caused by the pandemic, it is great to work with trusted 
partners like AWS to keep our community operating at 
this time.” We also worked with our partners in the region 
to provide meals, distance learning kits, laptops, and Wi-Fi 
connectivity for school children and senior citizens.Meeting Community Needs by Paying  
Utility Bills During COVID-19INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
98 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Disaster Relief
Amazon’s disaster relief and response teams leverage our 
vast operational excellence, cloud computing technologies, 
and worldwide logistics network to provide fast and 
effective support to worldwide operations addressing 
large-scale natural disasters. These strengths enable 
us to ship Amazon-donated items and items donated 
by partners to communities as soon as possible after 
hurricanes, tsunamis, wildfires, and earthquakes.
Over the years, Amazon has enabled customers to easily 
donate products and cash through our online store, and 
helped governments and nonprofits expedite response 
efforts at scale through our AWS cloud services. We 
recognize the immense need to support communities 
during and after natural disasters. We work with 
organizations based on need and where we believe we can 
have the greatest impact, with the goal of strengthening 
communities. In 2020, we supported the response to 16 
natural disasters in 12 countries and partnered with 53 
nonprofit service providers to enable critical support for 
front-line responders and survivors. Together with Amazon 
customers, we donated more than $22 million in products 
and cash to support people impacted by natural disasters 
around the world and first responders fighting those 
disasters. Donations included more than 12 million relief 
items, such as masks, bottled water, hygiene products, 
baby supplies, food, and other essential items. ”“Amazon’s... willingness to 
donate and pre-position 
personal protective 
equipment and relief 
supplies means that 
our team will have the 
resources it needs to 
respond and support 
families and communities 
when they need it most.  
– Erica Tavares, Vice President, Institutional    
 Partnerships & Philanthropy for International    
 Medical CorpsINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
99 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Computer
Science  
Education
At Amazon, we believe in the power of computer science 
to unleash creativity and unlock human potential. We 
also know that while talent and passion are spread across 
all young people, opportunity is not. We are dedicated 
to inspiring future builders, especially those from 
underrepresented and underserved communities. As part 
of our community focus, we work to increase access to 
high-quality computer science education. 
 
Amazon Future Engineer
Amazon Future Engineer is Amazon’s signature computer 
science education program designed to inspire and educate 
millions of students from underserved communities across 
the globe, including hundreds of thousands of students 
in the U.S. each year. Students explore computer science 
through school curriculum and project-based learning 
using code to make music, program robots, and solve 
problems. Amazon Future Engineer also awards 100 
students each year with four-year, $40,000 scholarships 
and paid internships at Amazon, and celebrates teachers 
with professional development and $25,000 Teacher of the 
Year Awards. Amazon Future Engineer is part of Amazon’s 
$50 million commitment to STEM and computer science 
education. In 2020, Amazon Future Engineer reached 
more than 5,000 schools and 600,000 students in the U.S. 
We also launched Amazon Future Engineer programming 
in the UK, France, and Canada, reaching an additional 
297,000 students with virtual online learning.  A WS Educate 
AWS Educate provides students and educators with 
online, self-paced cloud learning resources at no cost. 
Learners can complete any of our 12 cloud career 
pathways, explore hundreds of hours of content, and 
earn credentials. AWS Educate is used in more than 200 
countries and territories, and the program engages more 
than 3,500 institutions, 10,000 educators, and hundreds 
of thousands of students globally.  INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
100 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020A WS Academy
AWS Academy provides higher education institutions 
with a free, ready-to-teach cloud computing curriculum 
that prepares students to pursue industry-recognized 
certifications and in-demand cloud jobs. With free training 
and support from AWS, educators earn AWS Certification 
and teach the learning materials directly to students. To 
date, 1,500 AWS Academy Accredited Educators have 
delivered AWS Academy courses to more than 86,000 
students worldwide.  
 
A WS Think Big Experience
The AWS Think Big Experience encourages students to 
innovate and Think Big to solve real-world problems. To 
bring this to life, we have built physical Think Big Spaces 
and content for students around the globe. In 2020, the 
AWS Think Big Experience continued to provide access to 
science, technology, engineering, arts, and math (STEAM) 
education around the world when students had to move to 
virtual learning due to the pandemic. 
For example, in Mumbai, India, more than 1,600 students 
participated in the Think Big program to continue STEAM learning with smartphones and traditional telephones 
we provided. Students completed 59 STEAM projects, 
competing in and winning online science competitions. 
We helped participating students learn virtually, providing 
data packages for more than 300 students’ phones and 
donating 430 tablets to students who had no access to 
devices. The region’s mobile Think Big Space on wheels 
regularly visits communities in order for small groups of 
students to continue their experiments safely. 
In the U.S., AWS Think Big Spaces in Ohio and Virginia 
provided online sessions with interactive distance-learning 
projects in technology, coding, artificial intelligence, and 
machine learning to provide opportunities and resources 
for students interested in technology. Think Big Spaces also 
supported local teachers and staff participating with their 
classes, girls’ tech groups, and clubs.  
 
A WS Girls’ Tech Day
Girls’ Tech Day is a workshop emphasizing STEAM for 
school-age girls and young women—designed to inspire 
future builders, showcase tech careers and women in the 
technology workforce, and introduce girls in underserved 
areas to STEAM. In 2020, AWS Girls’ Tech Day went 
virtual, and 10,000 girls and young women interested in 
technology registered for programs in machine learning, 
artificial intelligence, coding, virtual reality, and robotics.  
 
A WS Cloud Computing Training
In December 2020, Amazon announced a pledge to help 
29 million people around the world grow their tech skills 
with free cloud computing skills training by 2025. To get 
to 29 million, we are expanding existing AWS-designed 
programs and piloting new ones to meet emerging training 
needs. These programs emphasize cloud computing 
training as the need for people with the right skills to take 
on cloud computing and other technical roles continues to 
grow. That need has become more apparent over the last 
year as schools, businesses, and governments have relied 
on the cloud to keep their organizations running.
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
101 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Whole Foods  
Market
Whole Foods Market was founded with a purpose: to 
nourish people and the planet. Whole Foods Market 
community giving programs provide a wide range of 
resources to help address existing and emerging needs in 
our neighborhoods and industry. We work with individuals 
and organizations that share our values, and proudly 
support hundreds of partnerships and initiatives each year.  
 
Whole Foods Market Foundations
Whole Foods Market has established three foundations to 
support strategic programs that make an impact across the 
globe. Whole Planet Foundation is committed to alleviating 
global poverty for people living in communities in the U.S. 
and around the world that supply our stores with products. 
Whole Kids Foundation supports schools and inspires families 
to improve children’s nutrition and wellness. Whole Cities 
Foundation expands healthy food access and nutrition 
education by partnering with community-led organizations 
to build thriving local food systems. Through these three 
foundations, Whole Foods Market has committed more than 
$50 million to local and global communities since 2005.  
 
Sourced for Good
Whole Foods Market is committed to strengthening the 
communities where products are sourced. Our Sourced 
for Good program supports workers, communities, and 
the environment by enabling tangible improvements in 
farmworkers’ lives through improved wages, access to 
healthcare, student scholarships, and more. Through the 
Sourced for Good program, Whole Foods Market has 
generated $40 million in development funds for farmworkers 
and their communities from the sale of fair-trade-certified 
produce and floral products, benefiting more than 67,000 
workers and small producers in 12 countries around the world.   
Local Producer Loan Program
Whole Foods Market provides loans to small, local, 
independent producers to help them expand their 
businesses through the Local Producer Loan Program. 
Loan recipients have included organic vegetable farmers, 
a heritage turkey grower, a nutritional protein bar maker, 
a maker of body care products, and many others. The 
Local Producer Loan Program has provided more than 350 
loans, representing $25 million in capital, to our suppliers 
in support of the development of specific products that we 
want to carry in our Whole Foods Market stores.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
102 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Governance  
& Reporting
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESHow We Prioritize  
Our Work
At Amazon, we take a science-based, customer-centric 
approach to sustainability. We use a structured life-cycle 
assessment model to measure and map climate-related 
risks across our value chain. We also conduct regular 
materiality assessments to understand the most significant 
environmental, social, and governance topics across our 
business over the short, medium, and long term. We 
monitor risks and prioritize opportunities by taking into 
account customer and stakeholder expectations, voluntary 
practices and regulations, industry best practices, trends in 
financial and sustainability reporting, and emerging topics 
in news and social media.
 
Some of our current highest priority sustainability issues are:
Climate change, energy efficiency, renewable 
energy, and sustainable transportation
Responsible employment and supply chain 
practices, including human rights and the safety 
and well-being of workers in our supply chain
Fair and inclusive workplaces, including talent 
and development
Waste, recycling, and the circular economy
Response to the COVID-19 pandemic and 
support for our customers, employees, and 
communities
 
Our sustainability efforts reflect Amazon’s positions on  
certain issues, including:
Human-induced climate change is real, serious, 
and action is needed from the public and private 
sectors 
 
 The federal minimum wage in the U.S. is too low 
and should be raised
Diversity, equity, and inclusion are good for 
business—and more fundamentally—simply right
The inequitable treatment of Black people is 
unacceptable
The rights of LGBTQ+ people must be protected 
All people should have access to housing they  
can afford  
  While our positions are carefully considered and deeply 
held, there is much room for healthy debate and differing 
opinions. We hope being clear about our positions is helpful. 
LEARN MORE ABOUT ALL OF OUR  
POSITIONS ON OUR WEBSITEINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
104 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Corporate 
Governance
Amazon’s Board of Directors oversee executives’ 
management of Amazon’s relevant risks and regularly 
reviews reports from management on various aspects 
of our business, including related risks and tactics and 
strategies for addressing them. While the full Board has 
overall responsibility for risk oversight, the Board has 
delegated responsibility related to certain risks to the 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the 
Leadership Development and Compensation Committee, 
and the Audit Committee.  
 
Risk Oversight
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 
is responsible for overseeing management of risks 
related to our environmental, sustainability, and 
corporate social responsibility practices, including risks 
related to our operations and our supply chain. The 
Leadership Development and Compensation Committee 
is responsible for overseeing management of risks 
related to succession planning and compensation for 
our executive officers and our overall compensation 
program, including our equity-based compensation 
plans, as well as risks related to other human capital 
management matters, including workplace safety, 
culture, diversity, discrimination, and harassment. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing 
management of risks related to our financial statements 
and financial reporting process, data privacy and 
security, business continuity, and operational risks, the 
qualifications, independence, and performance of our 
independent auditors, the performance of our internal 
audit function, legal and regulatory matters, and our 
compliance policies and procedures. 
Nominating and Corporate  
Governance Committee
During the past year, the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee met with management and reviewed 
matters that included the Board’s composition, diversity, and 
skills in the context of identifying and evaluating new director 
candidates to join the Board, the Board’s recruitment and 
self-evaluation processes, consideration of Amazon’s policies 
and initiatives regarding the environment and sustainability, 
corporate social responsibility, and corporate governance, and 
feedback from Amazon’s shareholder engagement on the 
foregoing matters.
 
 
 
 INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
105 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020
Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee
During the past year, the Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee met with management and reviewed matters that included the design, amounts, and effectiveness of Amazon’s compensation of senior executives, management succession planning, our benefit and compensation programs, our human resources programs, including review of certain workplace discrimination and harassment reports, worker safety and workplace conditions, and feedback from shareholder engagement. Workplace safety and our response to the COVID-19 pandemic have been significant topics of discussion and oversight at those meetings since the onset of the pandemic. In addition, the Committee, as well as the full Board, reviewed Amazon’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic and our actions to address and mitigate the pandemic’s impact on employees in regularly scheduled calls throughout 2020, reflecting the fact that the COVID-19 pandemic was significant to so many aspects of our operations that the updates should be provided to the entire Board.  
Audit Committee
During the past year, the Audit Committee met with management and reviewed matters that included Amazon’s risk assessment and compliance functions, data privacy and security, public policy expenditures, treasury and investment matters, accounting industry issues, the reappointment of our independent auditor, and pending litigation. The Audit Committee annually reviews Amazon’s U.S. Political Engagement Policy and Statement and a report on our public policy expenditures. The Audit Committee also met with the auditors to review the scope and results of the auditor’s annual audit and quarterly reviews of Amazon’s financial statements.  
Shareholder Engagement
We believe that effective corporate governance includes year-round engagement with our shareholders and other stakeholders. We meet regularly with our shareholders, including both large and small investors, to discuss business strategy, performance, compensation philosophy, corporate governance, a nd environmental and social 
topics. In a typical year, we will engage with doze ns of 
shareholders, including o ur largest shareholders, two to 
three times per year. This outreach is complement ary to 
the hundreds of touchpoint s our Investor Rela tions team 
has with shareholders ea ch year. We find it be neficial to 
have ongoing dialogue wit h our shareholders t hroughout 
the year on a full range of investor priorities (instead 
of engaging with shareh olders only prior to our  annual 
meeting on issues to be voted on in the proxy statement). 
Depending on the circumst ance, our lead directo r or 
another independent dire ctor may engage in the se 
conversations with shareh olders as well. 
In 2020, as part of our corporate governance engagement, 
we met with corporate go vernance representative s at 
shareholders owning over 35% of our stock (excl uding the 
approximately 14% voted by our founder and  Executiv e 
Chair) and responded to  numerous letters from our 
investors. Our direct engage ment with shareholders h elps 
us better understand ou r shareholders’ prior ities, 
perspectives, and issu es of concern, while giv ing us an 
opportunity to elaborate  on our many initiatives and 
practices and to address the extent to which various 
aspects of these matters are (or are not) significant given 
the scope and nature of our operations and our  existing 
practices. We take insigh ts from this feedback into 
consideration and regu larly share them with our Board as 
we review and evolve ou r practices and disclosure s. 
LEARN MORE ABOUT AMAZON’S CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE  ON OUR WEBSITEINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
106 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Public Policy
Actions on Energy 
and Climate
Increasing the deployment of renewable energy 
resources, clean transportation options, and other low-
carbon technologies is valuable for the planet, good for 
business, and important for our customers. As part of our 
sustainability efforts, Amazon advocates in support of 
public policy that advances access to and the expansion 
of clean energy, sustainable transportation, and other 
decarbonization solutions. 
Since 2016, Amazon has taken the following actions in 
support of promoting clean energy and addressing climate 
change:
April 2021: Joined a statement from the We Mean 
Business Coalition calling for the U.S. to set an ambitious 
and attainable 2030 emissions reduction target.
March 2021: Publicly supported a low-carbon fuels 
standard proposed in the Washington State legislature. 
January 2021: Signed a statement from the Renewable 
Energy Buyers Alliance to the incoming Biden 
Administration calling for a customer-centric transition to 
100% clean energy as soon as feasible, increased access 
to renewable energy, and increased federal research and 
development funding for clean tech.
December 2020: Signed a statement from the We Are 
Still In coalition calling on the Biden Administration and 
other federal leaders to act on climate as a key strategy to 
support economic recovery.December 2020: Signed a statement from the Center 
for Climate and Energy Solutions calling on the Biden 
Administration and new Congress to seek ambitious, 
durable climate solutions.
September 2020: Responded to the European Union’s 
Renewable Energy Directive consultation and emphasized 
the importance of voluntary corporate renewable energy 
purchasing in achieving the goals of the European Green Deal.
July 2020: Joined Race to Zero, a global campaign to 
raise awareness of efforts to build momentum around 
the shift to a decarbonized economy ahead of the 
United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) 
and advocate for governments to strengthen their 
contributions to the Paris Agreement.
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
107 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020April 2020: Joined the European Alliance for a green 
recovery, which includes policymakers, businesses, and 
organizations working together to support a COVID-19 
economic recovery that addresses the threat of  
climate change. 
January 2020: Testified at the Virginia General 
Assembly in favor of legislation to expand the use of 
energy storage to further integrate renewable energy 
into the grid in Virginia.
December 2019: Publicly praised the European Union’s 
intent to reach climate neutrality and pledged to work 
together with the new EU Commission on the Green Deal.
August 2019: Spoke at the National Conference of State 
Legislatures Energy Summit and implored state legislators 
to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy across 
the U.S.
June 2019: Supported legislation introduced in the United 
States Congress that would allow clean energy projects 
access to financing by forming master limited partnerships.
June 2019: Signed a letter to the European Commission 
outlining the importance of corporate renewable energy 
procurement and encouraging the National Energy and 
Climate Plans to remove barriers to renewable energy 
purchasing.
May 2019: Wrote to the Virginia State Corporation 
Commission encouraging that more renewable energy and 
clean energy technologies be included in a long-term plan 
by Virginia’s largest electric utility.
February 2019: Spoke to the National Association of State 
Energy Officials about the importance of energy efficiency and renewable energy for our business operations, 
encouraging states to help support the deployment  
of electric vehicles.
December 2018: Wrote to the Georgia Public Service 
Commission advocating for a strong renewable energy 
offering from the Georgia electric utility.
November 2018: Signed on to a joint declaration calling 
for changes to European energy policy that would allow for 
easier access to renewable energy. The declaration sought 
to reduce barriers that hinder renewable energy trading 
and tracking across borders between European Union 
member countries.
November 2018: Authored a letter to the European 
Commission in support of the removal of regulatory 
barriers to corporate sourcing of renewable energy.
September 2018: Spoke at the Midwest Governors 
Association conference and highlighted our interest in 
access to renewable energy and the importance of states 
reducing barriers to renewable energy access.
December 2017: Urged the European Union Commission 
to establish a goal of 35% renewable energy by 2030.
December 2017: Wrote to the California Public Utilities 
Commission in support of an electric vehicle charging 
program for the San Diego region.
October 2017: Provided support for the regulatory 
approval of a green energy program being created by the 
Florida electric utility that provides power to our facilities in 
the Jacksonville region.
October 2017: Authored a letter to the Ohio State 
Legislature in support of a bill that would reduce 
restrictions on the siting of wind energy projects in  
the state.
June 2017: Joined the We Are Still In coalition to express 
support for remaining in the Paris Climate Agreement.
February 2017: Offered support for a Virginia bill to create 
a new community solar law in the Commonwealth.
April 2016: Joined Apple, Google, and Microsoft in filing 
an amicus brief in support of the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency’s Clean Power Plan.
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
108 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020 Advanced Energy Buyers  
 Group
 Advanced Energy Economy
 Amader Kotha
 American Council on   
 Renewable Energy
 amfori
 Better Buying
 Better Cotton Initiative
 Brand Ethical Working   
 Group
 Bipartisan Policy Center
 Business for Social   
 Responsibility
 BSR HERproject
 Carbon Leadership Forum
 Center for Climate and   
 Energy Solutions
 Ceres, Corporate Electric  
 Vehicle Alliance
 City Harvest UK
 Closed Loop Fund
 Corporate Eco Forum
 Ellen MacArthur Foundation,  
 Circular Economy 100
 Energy Storage Association
 Feeding America
 Global Optimism
 Good360
  In Kind Direct
 Innatura
 International Labor   
  Organization Sustaining  
  Competitive and Responsible  
  Enterprises
 International Organization  
  for Migration
 International Safe Transit  
  Association
 Japan Climate Leaders’   
  Partnership
 Leather Working Group
 Nest
 Open Apparel Registry
 Polaris
 Public-Private Alliance for  
  Responsible Minerals Trade
 RE-Source Platform
 Renewable Energy Buyers  
  Alliance
 Responsible Business   
  Alliance
 Responsible Labor Initiative
 Responsible Minerals   
  Initiative
 Responsible Sourcing   
  Network
 Sedex
 SolarPower Europe
 StolenYouth  
  Supplier Ethical Data   
  Exchange
 Sustainable Apparel   
  Coalition
 Sustainable Packaging   
  Coalition
 Swasti
 Tech Against Trafficking
 Textile Exchange
 The Centre for Child Rights  
  and Business
 The Nature Conservancy
 The Recycling Partnership
 Third Way
 Thorn
 Truckers Against Trafficking
 Unseen
 U.S. Council for    
  International Business
 U.S. Partnership for   
  Renewable Energy Finance
 Verité
 We Mean Business
 World Economic Forum,  
  1t.org
 World Wildlife Fund   
  India, Renewable Energy  
  Demand Enhancement   
  InitiativePartnerships
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
109 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020AppendicesINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESCarbon  
Footprint
2018 2019 2020 Y0Y%
Carbon Intensity (grams of CO₂e per $ of GMS) 128.9 122.8 102.7 -16%
Emissions Category (mmt CO₂e) 2018 2019 2020 Y0Y%
Emissions from Direct Operations (Scope 1) 4.98 5.76 9.62 +67%
Fossil fuels 4.70 5.57 9.37 +69%
Refrigerants 0.28 0.19 0.25 +32%
Emissions from Purchased Electricity (Scope 2) 4.71 5.50 5.27 -4%
Emissions from Indirect Sources (Scope 3) 34.71 39.91 45.75 +15%
Corporate purcha ses and Amazon- branded product emissions  
(e.g., operating  expenses, business travel, and Amazon-branded 
product manufact uring, use phase , and end-of-l ife)11.95 15.41 16.70 +8%
Capital Goods (e.g., build ing construction, server s and other 
hardware, equipment, vehic les)4.64 8.01 10.52 +31%
Other indirect emissions (e.g., third-party transportation, 
packaging, upstream energy related)13.89 12.44 15.77 +27%
Lifecycle emissions from customer trips to Amazon’s physical stores4.23 4.05 2.77 -32%
Amazon’s Total Footprint 44.40 51.17 60.64 +19%
mmt = Million Metric Tons     CO2e = Carbon Dioxide Equivalent     GMS = Gross Merchandise INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
111 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Supplier  
Assessment 
Results 
We share our supplier assessment data to demonstrate 
our commitment to transparency and contribute to 
industry-wide knowledge on complex and changing 
supply chain conditions. In 2020, we conducted 4,708 
assessments to help us determine which suppliers to work 
with and, for those we do engage, to help us continually 
understand and improve those suppliers’ practices. We 
utilize three types of assessments:
 Pre-Production Assessments: Suppliers must submit 
an Amazon-approved assessment of their facilities 
before beginning production of Amazon-branded 
products (44% of assessments conducted in 2020 
were Pre-Production Assessments).
 Ongoing Assessments: Suppliers must submit 
Amazon-approved assessments on an ongoing 
basis while producing Amazon products (36% of 
assessments conducted in 2020 were Ongoing 
Assessments).
 Verification Assessments: Where issues are 
identified, suppliers must develop a corrective action 
plan detailing actions to address identified issues, a 
long-term plan to prevent reoccurrence, and where 
necessary, undergo a follow-up assessment to ensure 
issues are properly remediated (20% of assessments 
conducted in 2020 were Verification Assessments).
 
 Our assessment data reflects findings for suppliers 
evaluated in 2019 and 2020 and includes assessments of 
suppliers we no longer work with or with which we never 
began a business relationship. Assessments may have 
found more than one issue listed. We accept assessments 
completed by qualified independent audit firms based 
on our own assessment standards and those of industry 
associations, including Sedex (SMETA), amfori (amfori 
BSCI), and the Responsible Business Alliance; certification 
standard Social Accountability International (SA8000); and 
the Better Work program. 
Our assessment data helps us determine where to focus 
our efforts and resources, and provides insight into 
industry-wide challenges and systemic issues. For example, 
in 2020, we saw increased rates of findings in some 
categories primarily driven by pre-production audits (e.g., 
Freely Chosen Employment). We worked with suppliers 
to remediate these issues before going into production 
and did not see similarly high rates in verification audits. 
Increased findings with other issues (e.g., Industrial 
Hygiene) were driven by a need for supplier education 
where our standards exceed local law and industry practice. 
In other cases, the increased rate of findings in specific 
categories (e.g., Wages and Benefits) represents industry-
wide challenges which require industry-level, long-term 
solutions. We recognize that we cannot address many 
of these systemic issues alone and we are committed to 
engaging in industry-level interventions in order to drive 
improvement in working conditions.INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
112 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020 
High and Medium Level Findings by Subcategory  
in 2019 and 2020 (% of all assessment findings)
 
Subcategory 2019 2020
Labor
Freedom of Association Less than 1% Less than 1%
Freely Chosen Employment 3.20% 8%
Humane Treatment Less than 1% 1.40%
Non-Discrimination Less than 1% 1%
Subcontractor and Next-Tier Supplier Responsibility Less than 1% Less than 1%
Wages and Benefits 40.70% 47%
Worker Grievance / Complaint Mechanism Less than 1% Less than 1%
Working Hours 7.9% 5.70%
Young Workers Less than 1% Less than 1%
Ethical Behavior
Business Integrity 2.30% 2.90%
Transparency 2.90% 1.70%
Environment
Hazardous Substances Less than 1% Less than 1%
Pollution Management and Prevention Less than 1% 3%
  Health and Safety
  Emergency Preparedness and Response 10.50% 12.90%
  Industrial Hygiene 9.50% 16.20%
  Machine Safeguarding Less than 1% Less than 1%
  Sanitation, Dormitory, and Canteen 2.30% 1.80%INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
113 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020United Nations  
Sustainable
Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 global goals the United Nations 
General Assembly (UN) set to provide a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the 
planet, now and into the future. At Amazon, there are multiple ways our sustainability work aligns 
with these global goals. The following shows how our programs correspond to the UN SDGs:
CIRCULAR ECONOMY
 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS
PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY
 THE CLOUD
PARTNERSHIPS
SUPPLY CHAINEMPLOYEES
COMMUNITY
INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
114 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board is an independent standards board that is accountable for the due process, outcomes, and ratification of the SASB standards, 
which seek to identify financially material sustainability information. The table below lists topics classified as applicable to the E-Commerce Industry.
Table 1. Sustainability Disclosure Topics and Accounting Metrics
Metric Code Disclosure
Hardware Infrastructure Energy  
and Water Management
(1) Total energy consumed,  
(2) percentage grid electricity,  
(3) percentage renewableIn 2020, Amazon consumed 24 million MWh of electricity and reached 65% renewable energy 
across our business. See Renewable Energy on pages 26-27.
Discussion of the integration of environmental 
considerations into strategic planning for data  
center needsCG-EC-130a.3 AWS carefully chooses our data center locations to mitigate environmental risk, such as flooding, 
extreme weather, and seismic activity. See Sustainability in the Cloud on pages 37-43.
Data Privacy and Advertising Standards
Description of policies and practices relating to  
behavioral advertising and user privacyInterest-based ads are sometimes referred to as personalized or targeted ads. We show interest-
based ads to display features, products, and services. Amazon offers all customers the choice to 
not receive interest-based ads and customers may go to Amazon Advertising Preferences and 
choose to stop receiving interest-based ads from Amazon. See Interest-Based Ads. See Privacy 
Notice. See Cookies Notice.CG-EC-130a.1
CG-EC-220a.2
115 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Metric Code Disclosure
Data Security
Description of approach to identifying  
and addressing data security risksCG-EC-230a.1 We design our systems with customer security and privacy in mind. We work to protect the security of 
personal information during transmission by using encryption protocols and software. We maintain 
physical, electronic, and procedural safeguards in connection with the collection, storage, and 
disclosure of personal customer information. Our security procedures mean that we may occasionally 
request proof of identity before we disclose personal information to customers. Our devices offer 
security features to protect them against unauthorized access and loss of data. Users can control these 
features and configure them based on their needs. We follow the Payment Card Industry Data Security 
Standard (PCI DSS) when handling credit card data. See Privacy Notice. 
In addition, AWS architects our network, services, and data centers to protect AWS customers’ 
information, identities, applications, and devices. See AWS Cloud Security.
116 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Metric Code Disclosure
Employee Recruitment, Inclusion,  
and Performance
Employee engagement as a percentage Connections is a real-time, company-wide employee feedback mechanism designed to listen to and 
learn from employees at scale to improve the employee experience. Each day, Connections questions 
are delivered to every Amazon employee on a computer, workstation device, or hand scanner, 
generating more than 1.2 million responses from employees daily. Employees may choose to answer 
or not answer any question, and individual responses are aggregated and shared with managers at 
the team level to maintain confidentiality. Connections analyzes response data and provides insights 
to managers and leaders to review and take actions as they uncover issues or see opportunities to 
improve. Employees respond to Connections questions at more than 3,000 unique locations in 53 
countries, and questions are delivered in 26 languages. As of December 31, 2020, Amazon employed 
approximately 1.3 million full-time and part-time workers across the globe.
See Employee Engagement on pages 80-82.
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic  
group representation for (1) management,  
(2) technical staff, and (3) all other employeesAs of December 31, 2020, among people managers globally, 29.3% identify as women and 70.7% 
identify as men. Among people managers in the U.S., 19.5% identify as Asian, 10.6% as Black, 9.5% 
as Latinx, 3.2% as Multiracial, 0.7% as Native American, and 56.4% as White. 
As of December 31, 2020, among senior leaders globally, 22.1% identify as women and 77.9% 
identify as men. Among senior leaders in the U.S., 20.0% identify as Asian, 3.8% as Black, 3.9% as 
Latinx, 1.4% as Multiracial, 0.2% as Native American, and 70.7% as White. 
As of December 31, 2020, among all employees globally, 44.6% identify as women and 55.4% 
identify as men. Among all employees in the U.S., 13.6% identify as Asian, 26.5% as Black, 22.8% as 
Latinx, 3.6% as Multiracial, 1.5% as Native American, and 32.1% as White. 
See our Workforce Data on pages 77-79.CG-EC-330a.3CG-EC-330a.1
117 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Metric Code Disclosure
Product Packaging and Distribution
Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint  
of product shipmentsSee our Carbon Footprint on pages 14-15, 111. 
Discussion of strategies to reduce the  
environmental impact of product deliveryShipment Zero is our goal to deliver 50% of Amazon shipments with net-zero carbon by 2030 
through sustainable process improvements, recycled materials, investments in electrification, 
renewable energy initiatives, and more. See Shipment Zero on pages 24-25.
In 2019, Amazon ordered 100,000 electric delivery vehicles from Rivian, a U.S. electric vehicle 
manufacturer. We rolled out the first of these vehicles in Los Angeles in February 2021 and will 
expand to neighborhoods in up to 15 additional U.S. cities by the end of the year. We also expanded 
our European electric delivery fleet with an order for 1,800 electric vans from Mercedes-Benz, a 
signatory of The Climate Pledge. In India, we are adding 10,000 electric vehicles to our existing 
fleet by 2025, including two-wheeler, three-wheeler, and four-wheeler vehicles designed and 
manufactured by local manufacturers. In addition to our investments in vehicle electrification, we 
are maximizing efficiency on current vehicles, optimizing our delivery logistics, and using alternative 
delivery methods. See Transportation on pages 32-34.
As of June 2021, we have reduced the weight of outbound packaging by over 36% and eliminated 
more than 1 million tons of packaging material since 2015—the equivalent of 2 billion shipping boxes. 
In 2019, we launched a fully recyclable paper padded mailer that protects products during shipping 
while taking up less space in transit. We are also increasing our use of flexible paper-based mailers 
across Europe, allowing us to significantly reduce the use of plastic in packaging materials by the end 
of 2021. See Packaging on pages 45-46.
We are making these significant investments to drive our carbon footprint to zero despite the fact 
that shopping online is already inherently more carbon efficient than going to the store. Amazon’s 
sustainability scientists have found that, averaged across all basket sizes, online grocery deliveries 
generate 43% lower carbon emissions per item compared to shopping in stores. Smaller basket sizes 
generate even greater carbon savings. See 2019 Letter to Shareholders.CG-EC-410a.2CG-EC-410a.1
118 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Metric Code Disclosure
Activity Metrics
Entity-defined measure of user activity There are more than 200 million paid Prime members as of March 31, 2021.  
See Q1 2021 Earnings Release.
Number of shipments In 2019, we delivered more than 10 billion items worldwide. See 2019 Letter to Shareholders.CG-EC-000.A
CG-EC-000.CTable 2. Activity Metrics
119 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESINTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
120 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020Task Force on Climate-Related  
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
At Amazon, we take a science-based, customer-centric approach to climate. We use a structured life cycle assessment model to  
measure and map environmental hotspots across our value chain. We have conducted a sustainability materiality assessment to 
identify the most significant environmental topics across our business. We categorize climate risks and opportunities by taking into 
account customer and stakeholder expectations, regulations, business risks, industry best practices, and emerging trends. Amazon 
embeds a variety of mechanisms in our business operations to address sustainability issues, including climate-related risks. We 
integrate sustainability practices into our everyday operations through goal-setting, metrics, and quarterly business reviews.  
 
Governance
We have an established governance framework to help ensure that risks associated with climate change are considered at the 
most senior levels of our business.
•  Board Oversight: The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of Amazon’s Board of Directors oversees 
environmental, social, and corporate governance policies and initiatives, including our progress on The Climate Pledge, and 
risks related to our operations, supply chain, and customer engagement.
• Management Oversight: The Sustainability team works across Amazon to make operational changes that reduce or 
eliminate carbon in our business. Amazon developed a company-wide carbon accounting model that provides specific 
operational metrics to business teams on their emissions and allows them to track progress on decarbonization. 
Assessment
We conduct regular materiality assessments and have developed a comprehensive carbon system of record to identify 
environmental hotspots across the business. We hold quarterly business reviews with Amazon leadership teams to track 
progress toward meeting The Climate Pledge—a commitment to be net-zero carbon across our business by 2040, 10 years 
ahead of the Paris Agreement.
We are developing data and tools to address climate risks for both our business and our customers. The foundation of this 
work is the Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (ASDI), a global and authoritative source for open-sourced weather, climate, 
and sustainability data. This data, together with AWS analytical tools, is enabling cutting-edge scientific work and helping us 
raise the bar for customers. For example, by using the NOAA weather data available in ASDI, Amazon transportation teams 
have been able to better predict how weather-related events (snowstorms, floods, heatwaves, etc.) impact customer package 
deliveries, and we have provided customers with more accurate delivery estimates as a result. The AWS Infrastructure team 
also leverages weather data from ASDI to better assess the impact of weather on AWS data centers. We carefully choose our 
data center locations to mitigate environmental risk, such as flooding, extreme weather, and seismic activity. We are developing 
a robust tool for assessing and managing weather and climate-related risks for our assets, people, and operations. Our 
ultimate goal is to enable customers and suppliers to use the tools we are developing in-house to improve climate resilience.  
 
Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
Teams across Amazon are working to make operational changes that reduce or eliminate carbon in our business. We are 
committed to minimizing our carbon emissions by optimizing our transportation network and investing in electric vehicles; 
improving product packaging to drive efficiency in the distribution of products; implementing energy efficiency measures in our 
operations; using renewable energy to run our business; and supporting global reforestation. We have also joined numerous 
industry partnerships including Ceres, American Council on Renewable Energy, Advanced Energy Buyers Group, Carbon 
Leadership Forum, We Mean Business, and Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance to express support for action on climate change 
and to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy.Climate-Related Risks:
We have identified the following climate-related risks based on TCFD risk types and classifications. Physical risks are classified as either: 1) Acute (extreme weather events) or  
2) Chronic (changing weather patterns and rising mean temperature and sea levels). Transition risks are classified as one or more of the following: 1) Policy and Legal;  
2) Technology; 3) Market; and/or 4) Reputation.  
Risk Type Description Classification
Physical Increasing risk of flood or damages due to climate-related events could increase our physical and operational risks and the 
cost to insure our buildings. Repeated damage due to flooding could result in an inability to insure existing buildings.Acute
Physical Weather-related events such as hurricanes could cause asset damage to our buildings, prevent deliveries to customers, and 
negatively impact sales. Acute
Physical Extreme and prolonged weather events such as droughts could impact water availability for data center operations. Acute
Physical Weather-related events could impact our ability to access raw materials and deliver final products. Acute
Physical A warming climate could increase thermal stress and outdoor associate exposure to criteria air pollutants.  
These stresses could negatively impact the health of our employees, close sites, and delay customer deliveries.Chronic
Physical As temperatures increase and water availability decreases, we could experience rising costs for data center cooling. Chronic
Transition Increasing regulations and evolving public preference may require a faster transition to a low-carbon economy, which could 
increase operating costs and/or reduce demands for some products and services.Policy and Legal;  
Market; Reputation
121 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESClimate-Related Opportunities: 
We have identified the following climate-related opportunities based on TCFD classifications. Opportunities are classified as one or more of the following: 1) Resource 
Efficiency; 2) Energy Source; 3) Products and Services; 4) Markets; and/or 5) Resilience.
Description Classification
Renewable Energy (p. 26-27) 
Amazon is on a path to powering our operations with 100% renewable energy by 2025 and we reached 65% renewable energy across our 
business in 2020. As of June 2021, Amazon has 232 wind and solar renewable energy projects across the globe, including more than 90 solar 
rooftops on fulfillment centers and sort centers. In total, our renewable energy projects have a combined capacity to generate more than 
10,000 MW and deliver 27 million MWh of energy annually.Energy Source; 
Resilience
Transportation (p. 32-34)  
Amazon is optimizing and transforming our transportation network through technological innovations, efficiency enhancements, and alternative 
solutions that allow us to deliver packages to our customers more sustainably. In 2019, we ordered 100,000 electric delivery vehicles from 
Rivian, a U.S. electric vehicle manufacturer. We rolled out the first of these vehicles in Los Angeles in February 2021 and will expand to 
neighborhoods in up to 15 additional U.S. cities by the end of the year. We also expanded our European electric delivery fleet with an order for 
1,800 electric vans from Mercedes-Benz, a signatory of The Climate Pledge. In India, we are adding 10,000 electric vehicles to our existing fleet 
by 2025, including two-wheeler, three-wheeler, and four-wheeler vehicles designed and manufactured by local manufacturers. Resource Efficiency; 
Energy Source
Our Buildings (p. 28-31)  
Amazon is working to reduce the carbon emissions associated with our buildings, from the carbon embodied in construction materials, to the 
operational emissions from powering our activities. In 2020, we launched an in-depth study of our operations facilities to examine the energy 
intensity of our buildings and identify ways to reduce carbon through energy efficiency enhancements, new technologies, and sustainable building 
materials. We have started applying these insights across building types and are incorporating best practices into future building development plans. Resource Efficiency; 
Energy Source; 
Resilience
Water Stewardship (p. 40-41) 
AWS has multiple initiatives underway to use water more efficiently and use less potable (drinking) water to cool our data centers. AWS develops 
our water-use strategy by evaluating climate patterns for each AWS Region, local water management and availability, and the opportunity to 
conserve drinking water sources. In Northern Virginia, AWS was the first data center operator to be approved to use recycled water with direct 
evaporative cooling technology. Resource Efficiency
122 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESClimate-Related Opportunities: 
Description Classification
Packaging (p. 45-46) 
Amazon customers want right-sized, recyclable packaging that minimizes waste and ensures damage-free delivery. We work to reinvent and 
simplify our sustainable packaging options using a science-based approach that combines lab testing, machine learning, materials science, 
and manufacturing partnerships to scale sustainable change across the packaging supply chain. Since 2015, we have reduced the weight of 
outbound packaging by 36% and eliminated more than 1 million tons of packaging material, the equivalent of about 2 billion shipping boxes.Resource Efficiency
Product Sustainability (p. 51-56) 
As part of our mission to be Earth’s most customer-centric company, we are working to give our customers access to more sustainable products, 
from thousands of Amazon-branded products we develop and manufacture, to millions of retail and third-party items sold in Amazon’s store. 
We are committed to helping customers find products that exceed the social and environmental benefits of comparable options when they 
shop in our stores, through programs such as Climate Pledge Friendly. We work with the suppliers of our branded products to drive sustainability 
improvements across the stages of material sourcing, design, manufacturing, and customer use. Products and Services
Recycling (p. 47, 56) 
Amazon is committed to reducing our environmental footprint through recycling initiatives in our own operations and partnerships that support 
the development of recycling infrastructure across the industry. Amazon has on-site plastic film recycling at more than 168 fulfillment centers 
across our network. We also invested $10 million in the Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund to finance recycling and circular economy infrastructure 
in North America. We also incorporate recycled plastics, fabrics, and metals into many new Amazon devices, giving new life to materials that 
could have otherwise ended up in waste streams.Resource Efficiency
The Climate Pledge Fund (p. 19-20) 
The Climate Pledge Fund is a corporate venture capital fund that invests in companies that can accelerate Amazon’s path to meeting The 
Climate Pledge. Amazon launched The Climate Pledge Fund in 2020 to support the development of sustainable and decarbonizing technologies 
and services. This dedicated investment program—with an initial $2 billion in funding—invests in visionary companies whose products and 
solutions will facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy.Resource Efficiency; 
Energy Source; 
Products and Services
123 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESClimate-Related Opportunities: 
Description Classification
Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (p. 42-43) 
The Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (ASDI) seeks to accelerate sustainability research and innovation by minimizing the cost and time 
required to acquire and analyze large sustainability datasets. ASDI works with scientific organizations like NOAA, NASA, the UK Met Office, and 
The Queensland Government to identify, host, and deploy key datasets on the AWS Cloud, including weather observations, weather forecasts, 
climate projection data, satellite imagery, hydrological data, air quality data, and ocean forecast data. In 2020, Amazon became a founding 
member of the LF Climate Finance Foundation, a new initiative with the goal of empowering investors, banks, insurers, companies, governments, 
NGOs, and academia with AI-enhanced open source analytics and open data to address climate risk and opportunity. Through this collaboration, 
we are leveraging the AWS Cloud to make climate-relevant data available to the public.Products and Services
Metrics and Targets
Amazon’s carbon footprint, including Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, is available on page 111.
Our team of researchers and scientists has combined cutting-edge life cycle assessment (LCA) science and AWS technology to develop a robust software solution that processes 
billions of operational and financial records from Amazon’s operations across the world to calculate our carbon footprint. The software estimates carbon emissions for all activities 
within our system boundary using a dollar-based environmental assessment model, then enhances the accuracy of carbon-intensive activities with detailed, process-based LCA 
models. We have a comprehensive understanding of the carbon emissions across our business and have done extensive analysis to develop science-based targets, strategies, and 
metrics to reduce them.
Under The Climate Pledge, Amazon is on a path to:
• Reach net-zero carbon by 2040;
• Deliver 50% of shipments with net-zero carbon by 2030;
• Power our operations with 100% renewable energy by 2025.
Teams across Amazon are taking a broad, science-based approach to measuring, reducing, and eliminating carbon emissions in our operations. As part of our commitment to 
The Climate Pledge, we are proud to have joined the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), reaffirming our commitment to reduce carbon emissions in line with our ongoing 
science-based approach to tackle climate change. SBTi is a collaboration between CDP, World Resources Institute (WRI), the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), and the United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC); it is one of the We Mean Business Coalition commitments.
124 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Policy  
Committment• 2021 Proxy Statement
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (IV. Discrimination and Harassment, V. Health and  
Safety, IX. Questions/Reporting Violations) 
• Global Human Rights Principles 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Governance, Assessing Our Risk, 
Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Our Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the 
Context of COVID-19)
• Our Positions 
• Supplier Manual 
• Supply Chain Standards
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Policy  
Committment• Global Human Rights Principles
• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Governance)
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64) A1 What does the company say   
 publicly about its commitment to  
 respect human rights?UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) Reporting Framework
The UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework provides comprehensive guidance for companies to report on human rights issues in line with their responsibility to respect 
human rights. This is an index of Amazon’s public content related to each subsection of the UNGP Reporting Framework. It represents information as of June 2021.
Part A: Governance of Respect for Human Rights
A1.1  How has the public commitment  
 been developed?
125 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Policy  
Committment• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Global Human Rights Principles 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Assessing Our Risk, Responsible Sourcing, Modern Slavery  
in the Context of COVID-19) 
• Supplier Manual (p. 1) 
• Supply Chain Standards (p. 1, 5) 
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, p. 83-93) 
Policy  
Committment• 2021 Proxy Statement
• Global Human Rights Principles 
• Modern Slavery Statement 
• Supplier Manual
• Supply Chain Standards
• Sustainability Report, PeopleA1.3 How is the public  
 commitment 
 disseminated?A1.2 Whose human rights  
 does the public  
 commitment address?
126 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Embedding 
Respect• 2021 Proxy Statement
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters (Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee)
• Modern Slavery Statement 
• Supplier Manual (p. 1-5, 11-12) 
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93) 
Embedding 
Respect• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters (Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Governance) 
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Embedding 
Respect• 2021 Proxy Statement
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters (Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Governance)
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64)A2 How does the company demonstrate   
 the importance it attaches to the   
 implementation of its human rights   
 commitment?
A2.1 How is day-to-day responsibility for   
 human rights performance organized   
 within the company, and why?
A2.2 What kinds of human rights issues are   
 discussed by senior management and by  
 the Board and why?
127 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Embedding 
Respect• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
• Global Human Rights Principles (Employee Communication, Our Suppliers, How We Do This) 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Governance, Our Commitments and 
Progress) 
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Employees, p. 65-82)
Embedding 
Respect• Modern Slavery Statement (Our Policies, Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Engagement 
with Strategic Stakeholders)
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
• Seller Central Policies 
• Supplier Manual (p. 1-5, 11-12)
• Supply Chain Standards
Embedding 
Respect• Modern Slavery Statement (Assessing Our Risk, Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress,  
Our Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)A2.4 How does the company make clear in its  
 business relationships the importance it  
 places on respect for human rights?
A2.5 What lessons has the company learned  
 during the reporting period about  
 achieving respect for human rights,   
 and what has changed as a result?A2.3  How are employees and contract workers  
 made aware of the ways in which respect  
 for human rights should inform their   
 decisions and actions?
128 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Statement of  
Salient Issues• Amazon France Logistique Duty of Vigilance Plan (Assessment of Priority Areas)
• Global Human Rights Principles (Our Workplace)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Assessing Our Risk) 
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64)
Explanation of  
Salient Issues• Amazon France Logistique Duty of Vigilance Plan (Assessment of Priority Areas)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Assessing Our Risk) 
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Geographical 
Focus• Modern Slavery Statement (Assessing Our Risk, Our Commitments and Progress) 
• Sustainability Report, People (Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Additional  
Severe Impacts• Amazon France Logistique Duty of Vigilance Plan (Addressing Health Impacts of Novel 
Coronavirus (COVID-19)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Our Positions 
• Sustainability Report, People (Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)B1 Statement of salient human rights   
 issues associated with the company’s 
 activities and business relationships   
 during the reporting period.Part B: Defining the Focus of Reporting
B2 Describe how the salient human rights   
 issues were determined, including   
 any input from stakeholders.
B3 If reporting on the salient human rights   
 issues focuses on particular geographies,  
 explain how that choice was made.
B4 Identify any severe impacts on human   
 rights that occurred or were still being   
 addressed during the reporting period,   
 but which fall outside the salient human   
 rights issues, and explain how they have   
 been addressed.
129 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Specific  
Policies• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Global Human Rights Principles
• Our Positions (The federal minimum wage in the U.S. is too low and should be raised; 
Diversity and inclusion are good for business—and more fundamentally—simply right; The 
inequitable treatment of Black people is unacceptable; The rights of LGBTQ+ people must be 
protected)
• Supplier Manual (p. 4-5)
• Supply Chain Standards (p. 1-4)
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Specific  
Policies• Modern Slavery Statement (Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Our Progress, Our 
Commitments and Progress)
• Supplier Manual (in 11 languages)
• Supply Chain Standards (in 12 languages)
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, 
p. 83-93)C1 Does the company have any specific   
 policies that address its salient human   
 rights issues, and if so, what are they?
C1.1 How does the company make clear the  
 relevance and significance of such   
 policies to those who need to    
 implement them?Part C: Management of Salient Human Rights Issues
130 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Stakeholder 
Engagement• Global Human Rights Principles (Our Suppliers, Collaboration)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Assessing Our Risk, Responsible 
Sourcing, Our Progress, Engagement with Strategic Stakeholders, Our Commitments and 
Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Stakeholder  
Engagement• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Assessing Our Risk, Responsible 
Sourcing, Our Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19) 
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Stakeholder  
Engagement• Modern Slavery Statement (Our Policies, Our Progress, Engagement with Strategic 
Stakeholders, Our Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People (Supply Chain, p. 83-93)C2 What is the company’s approach to   
 engagement with stakeholders in   
 relation to each salient human rights   
 issue?
C2.1 How does the company identify which   
 stakeholders to engage with in relation  
 to each salient issue, and when and   
 how to do so?
C2.2 During the reporting period, which   
 stakeholders has the company engaged  
 with regarding each salient issue,   
 and why?
131 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Stakeholder  
Engagement• Modern Slavery Statement (Our Policies, Assessing Our Risk, Our Progress, Engagement with 
Strategic Stakeholders, Our Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of 
COVID-19)
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93) 
Assessing 
Impacts• Modern Slavery Statement (Assessing Our Risk, Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Our 
Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Assessing 
Impacts• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Case Study )
• Sustainability Report, People (Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Assessing 
Impacts• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing) 
• Sustainability Report, People (Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)C2.3 During the reporting period, how   
 have the views of stakeholders   
 influenced the company’s understanding  
 of each salient issue and/or its approach  
 to addressing it?
C3 How does the company identify any   
 changes in the nature of each salient   
 human rights issue over time?
C3.1 During the reporting period, were   
 there any notable trends or patterns   
 in impacts related to a salient issue,  
 and if so, what were they?
C3.2 During the reporting period, did any   
 severe impacts occur that were related  
 to a salient issue and, if so, what were   
 they?
132 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Integrating  
Findings  
and Taking  
Action• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing) 
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters (Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee)
• Global Human Rights Principles 
• Supplier Manual (p. 2-8, 11)
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, 
p. 83-93)
Integrating  
Findings  
and Taking  
Action• Amazon France Logistique Duty of Vigilance Plan (Governance)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Governance) 
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64)
Integrating  
Findings  
and Taking  
Action• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing) 
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters (Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee)
• Global Human Rights Principles 
• Supplier Manual (p. 2, 6, 8, 11)
• Sustainability Report, People (Supply Chain, p. 83-93)C4 How does the company integrate its   
 findings about each salient human   
 rights issue into its decision-making   
 process and actions?
C4.1 How are those parts of the company   
 whose decisions and actions can affect  
 the management of salient issues,   
  involved in finding and implementing   
 solutions?
C4.2 When tensions arise between the   
 prevention or mitigation of impacts   
 related to a salient issue and other   
 business objectives, how are these   
 tensions addressed?   
133 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Integrating  
Findings  
and Taking  
Action• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Our Commitments 
and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19, Engagement with Strategic 
Stakeholders) 
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, 
p. 83-93) 
Tracking  
Performance• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Our Commitments and 
Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Sustainability Report, People (Supply Chain, p. 83-93) 
Tracking  
Performance• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Our Commitments and 
Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19) 
• Sustainability Report, People (Supply Chain, p. 83-93)C4.3 During the reporting period, what   
 actions has the company taken to   
 prevent or mitigate potential impacts   
 related to each salient issue?
C5 How does the company know if its   
 efforts to address each salient human   
 rights issue are effective in practice? 
C5.1 What specific examples from the   
 reporting period illustrate if each salient  
 issue is being managed effectively?
134 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Remediation • Amazon France Logistique Duty of Vigilance Plan (Policies, Assessment of Priority Areas: 
Hours and Overtime, Workplace Discrimination, Trade Union Rights, Occupational Injury; 
Addressing Health Impacts of Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)) 
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (IX. Questions; Reporting Violations)
• Global Human Rights Principles (Employee Communication) 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Case Study, Engagement 
with Strategic Stakeholders) 
• Partnerships
• Supply Chain Standards (p. 1, 5-6) 
• Sustainability Report, People  (Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, p. 83-93) 
Remediation • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (IX. Questions; Reporting Violations)
• Global Human Rights Principles (Employee Communication) 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Case Study, Engagement 
with Strategic Stakeholders)
• Supply Chain Standards (p. 1, 5-6)
• Sustainability Report,  People (Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Remediation • Sustainability Report,  People (Employees, p. 65-82)C6 How does the company enable effective  
 remedy if people are harmed by its   
 actions or decisions in relation to the   
 salient human rights issues?
C6.1 Through what means can the company  
 receive complaints or concerns related  
 to each salient issue? 
C6.2 How does the company know if   
 people feel able and empowered to   
 raise complaints or concerns?
135 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES 
Section Indicator/Question    References and Links
Remediation • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (IX. Questions; Reporting Violations)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Engagement with Strategic Stakeholders)
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People (Human Rights, p. 58-64; Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, 
p. 83-93)
Remediation • Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing)
• Sustainability Report, People (Employees, p. 65-82; Supply Chain, p. 83-93)
Remediation • Modern Slavery Statement (Our Progress, Case Study, COVID-19)
• Sustainability Report, People (Supply Chain, p. 83-93)C6.3 How does the company process   
 complaints and assess the effectiveness  
 of outcomes? 
C6.4 During the reporting period, what were the  
 trends and patterns in complaints or concerns  
 and their outcomes regarding each salient issue,  
 and what lessons has the company learned?
C6.5 During the reporting period, did the   
 company provide or enable remedy for  
 any actual impacts related to a salient   
 issue and, if so, what are typical or   
 significant examples?
136 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICESDisclaimer and 
Looking Forward  
Statements
The information and opinions contained in this report are provided as of the date of this 
report and are subject to change without notice. Amazon does not undertake to update or 
revise any such statements. This report represents current Amazon policy and intent and is 
not intended to create legal rights or obligations. This report may contain or incorporate by 
reference public information not separately reviewed, approved, or endorsed by Amazon 
and no representation, warranty, or undertaking is made by Amazon as to the accuracy, 
reasonableness, or completeness of such information. Inclusion of information in this report 
is not an indication that the subject or information is material to Amazon’s business or 
operating results. This report is originally drafted in English and then translated into other 
languages. The English version is the authoritative version.
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical 
or current facts, including statements regarding our plans, initiatives, projections, goals, 
commitments, expectations, or prospects, are forward-looking.  We use words such as aim, 
believe, commit, drive, estimate, ensure, expect, goal, intend, may, mission, plan, project, 
seek, strategy, strive, target, and will or similar expressions to identify forward-looking 
statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and 
inherently involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially due to a 
variety of factors, including assumptions not being realized, scientific or technological 
developments, evolving sustainability strategies, changes in carbon markets, evolving 
government regulations, our expansion into new products, services, technologies, and 
geographic regions, or other changes in circumstances, as well as the factors set forth 
in the “Risk Factors” section of Amazon’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and 
subsequent filings. The standards of measurement and performance contained in the 
report are developing and based on assumptions, and no assurance can be given that 
any plan, initiative, projection, goal, commitment, expectation, or prospect set forth in this 
report can or will be achieved. INTRODUCTION      PROGRESS      ENVIRONMENT      PEOPLE      GOVERNANCE      APPENDICES
137 Amazon Sustainability Report | 2020