All In: Staying the Course  
on Our Commitment to  
Sustainability 
Amazon Sustainability    •    December 2020    •    sustainability.aboutamazon.comTable of Contents
Introduction: Our World in 2020
About
Environment
People 
Governance3
5 
19 
52 
903 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    INTRODUCTIONWHILE THIS REPORT reflects our work throughout 2019, the world has clearly undergone a massive shift in 2020 with 
the emergence of COVID-19. We are, first and foremost, focused on the safety of our employees and contractors around the 
world. It is important that we help our customers through this difficult time, and Amazonians are working around the clock 
to get necessary supplies delivered directly to the doorsteps of people and organizations who need them. Our Whole Foods 
Market stores have remained open, providing fresh food and other vital goods for customers. 
 
AMAZON EMPLOYEES RECEIVE  comprehensive health benefits starting on day one of 
employment. We are working on building scalable testing for coronavirus. We’ve distributed 
face masks and implemented temperature checks at sites around the world to help protect 
employees and support staff, and offer free masks to our Whole Foods Market customers. 
We regularly sanitize door handles, stairway handrails, lockers, elevator buttons, and touch 
screens, and disinfectant wipes and hand sanitizer are standard across our network. We also 
introduced extensive social distancing measures to help protect our associates. In all, we 
have made over 150 significant process changes in our operations network and Whole 
Foods Market stores, which we audit frequently, to help teams stay healthy.  
 
DURING THIS CRISIS,  we’ve added 175,000 new jobs to help meet customer demand for essential products.  
Between March and end of May, we increased pay for hourly employees by $2 per hour in the U.S., C$2 per hour in Canada, 
and €2 per hour in many EU countries. We also doubled the regular hourly base pay for every overtime hour worked and are 
offering extra time off with full pay for those diagnosed with COVID-19. We are working with food banks in 25 U.S. cities to 
deliver 6 million meals to underserved and vulnerable populations. We are collaborating with the World Health Organization, 
supplying advanced cloud technologies and technical expertise to track the virus, understand the outbreak, and better 
contain its spread. We launched the $20 million AWS Diagnostic Initiative to accelerate COVID-19 research, and AWS is 
supporting the White House’s COVID-19 High Performance Computing Consortium, providing computing resources 
to advance research on diagnosis, treatment, and vaccine studies. You can read more about what Amazon is 
doing on COVID-19 through the daily updates to our blog.  Amazon’s COVID-19 blogDuring this crisis, we’ve added  
175,000 new jobs to help meet customer  
demand for essential products.Our World in 2020
4 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    INTRODUCTIONUNUSUAL TIMES like these require investment. We expect to invest approximately 
$4 billion in our second quarter alone on COVID-related initiatives getting products 
to customers and keeping employees safe. While this is a major commitment, it won’t 
come at the expense of our commitment to sustainability and The Climate Pledge. To do 
anything different would be to ignore the fact that—as the pandemic has demonstrated—
we are all interconnected and interdependent. We know there is a lot of uncertainty in the 
world, and we also know that during these critical times, it is more important than ever to double down on our commitments 
relating to the climate crisis. In 2019, we made a big bet on the capabilities of our company to innovate, use our scale 
for good, and go faster to address the urgency of the climate crisis. We also launched The Climate Pledge, inviting other 
companies to join with us on this path. 
THIS MOMENT we are in now has already taught us immeasurable things about how the world can and might function 
going forward. The planetary pause that COVID-19 has brought about to most continents—if not all at this point—shows 
us what happens when some of these changes happen on our planet. Planetary stability is of course tied to economic 
stability and the health and well-being of all people. We have yet to see what a post-COVID recovery will entail, or what 
the impact will be on our ability to maintain clean air, access to health, and thriving communities. With the devastation 
that has occurred, there is also some optimism that we might be able learn from this moment to build back our 
communities with more resiliency and protections for people and our planet. 
AT AMAZON,  we first began discussing the possibility of company-wide net zero commitments during a senior planning 
summit in 2016. We knew that to continue to be a relentlessly resilient and innovative business, we would need to deeply 
understand what is happening on our planet. We also knew that we would need to build and dedicate financial resources, 
intellectual capital, and change management work to creating the tools, data, and understanding about how to achieve 
these types of commitments. 
FOUR YEARS LATER, our bold commitment to integrating sustainability across the company has not 
changed, and it will not change another five or ten years from now. What has changed, however, is the 
way in which we are conducting our business, running our operations, funding and implementing 
new technologies and services that decarbonize and help preserve the natural world, along with the 
ambitious goals we have set, starting with The Climate Pledge—our commitment to reach net zero 
carbon by 2040, a decade ahead of the Paris Agreement. We’re all in on our goals and our work to build 
a better planet, on urgent action to drive a lasting change: to see the world transition through this current 
pandemic into a world that embraces a sustainable path to recovery and wellness. We expect to invest approximately $4 billion  
in our second quarter alone on COVID-related 
initiatives getting products to customers.
About
06 Goals and Strategies 
10 The Climate Pledge 
12 Right Now Climate Fund 
14 The Climate Pledge Fund 
15 Customers 
18 Amazon Around the Globe6Goals and Strategies
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUTAmazon is committed to building  
a sustainable business for our  
customers and the planet.
7 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUTAmazon has been committed to sustainability for many years. In 2019, Amazon 
co-founded The Climate Pledge—a commitment to be net zero carbon across  
our business by 2040, 10 years ahead of the Paris Agreement. As part of this  
pledge, Amazon has made ambitious commitments toward reaching this goal:Our Commitments
2025
Renewable Energy 
On a path to powering our operations  
with 100% renewable energy by 2025.
2030Shipment Zero  
Making all Amazon shipments net zero carbon through Shipment Zero,  
with 50% of all shipments net zero carbon by 2030.
2040Net Zero Carbon  
Deploying our technology and people to reach  
net zero carbon across our business by 2040.8 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUTTo meet these goals, teams across Amazon are taking a broad, science-
based approach to measuring, reducing, and eliminating carbon emissions 
in our operations. As part of our commitment to The Climate Pledge, we 
are proud to join the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), reaffirming our 
commitment to reduce carbon emissions in line with our ongoing science-
based approach to tackle climate change. SBTi is a collaboration between 
CDP, World Resources Institute (WRI), the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), and 
the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC); it is one of the We Mean 
Business Coalition commitments .  
 
$100MMRight Now Climate Fund  
Investing $100 million in reforestation projects  
and climate mitigation solutions.
$2B
Climate Pledge Fund  
Investing $2 billion to support the development of technologies  
and services that decarbonize and help preserve the natural world.
100,000Electric Delivery Vehicles 
Purchasing 100,000 electric delivery vehicles,  
the largest order ever of electric delivery vehicles.9
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUTHere is a closer look at the work we are doing:
 
Renewable Energy  
Amazon is on a path to powering our operations with 100% renewable energy by 2025. In 2019, we reached 42% 
renewable energy across our business. As of December 2020, Amazon has 127 solar and wind projects across the 
globe that have the capacity to generate over 6,500 megawatts and deliver more than 18 million megawatt hours of 
energy annually—enough to power more than 1.7 million U.S. homes.
 
Shipment Zero  
Shipment Zero is Amazon’s vision to make all Amazon shipments net zero carbon, with a goal of delivering 50% of 
shipments with net zero carbon by 2030. Shipment Zero means that the fulfillment operations we undertake to deliver 
a customer’s shipment are net zero carbon—from the fulfillment center where an item is picked off the shelf, to the 
materials used to package the item, and the mode of transportation that gets the package to the customer’s door.
 
Electric Vehicles  
In 2019, Amazon ordered 100,000 new electric delivery vehicles from Rivian, a U.S. electric vehicle manufacturer. This 
order, the largest order ever of electric delivery vehicles, sends a signal to the marketplace to start inventing and de-
veloping new technologies that large, global companies need to transition to a low-carbon economy. Amazon plans to 
have 10,000 of the new electric vehicles on the road as early as 2022 and all 100,000 vehicles on the road by 2030.  
Sustainable Packaging  
Amazon created our Frustration-Free Packaging program to encourage manufacturers to package their products 
in easy-to-open, 100% recyclable packaging that is ready to ship to customers without the need for an additional 
shipping box. Since 2015, we have reduced the weight of outbound packaging by 33% and eliminated more than 
900,000 tons of packaging material, the equivalent of 1.6 billion shipping boxes.
 
Right Now Climate Fund  
Amazon established the Right Now Climate Fund, a $100 million fund to restore and conserve forests, wetlands, and 
grasslands around the world. Through the Right Now Climate Fund, Amazon is taking immediate action to remove or 
avoid carbon emissions by supporting nature-based climate solutions. Amazon is working with The Nature Conser-
vancy to identify projects around the world that can create real and lasting carbon reductions, while also empower-
ing communities, enhancing natural environments, and protecting wildlife.
Climate Pledge Fund  
In June 2020, Amazon announced The Climate Pledge Fund to support the development of sustainable and 
decarbonizing technologies and services that will enable Amazon and other companies to meet the goals set 
by The Climate Pledge. This dedicated investment program—with an initial $2 billion in funding—will invest in 
visionary companies whose products and solutions will facilitate the transition to a low carbon economy.
10 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUT
The Climate Pledge was founded in 2019 by Amazon  
and Global Optimism. The Pledge calls on signatories to be  
net zero carbon across their businesses by 2040, a decade  
ahead of the Paris Agreement goal of 2050.11
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUT“Bold steps by big companies will make a huge difference in the development  
of new technologies and industries to support a low carbon economy.”   
– Christiana Figueres, Former Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention  
on Climate Change and Co-Founder of Global OptimismCompanies that sign The Climate Pledge agree to:
Regular Reporting
Signatories agree to measure and report  
greenhouse gas emissions on a regular basis.
Carbon Elimination
Signatories will implement decarbonization strategies in line with 
the Paris Agreement through real business change and innovations, 
including efficiency improvements, renewable energy, materials 
reductions, and other carbon emission elimination strategies.
Credible Offsets
Signatories must take actions to neutralize any remaining emissions  
with additional, quantifiable, real, permanent, and socially-beneficial 
offsets to achieve net zero annual carbon emissions by 2040.12
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUTPriorities of the Right Now Climate Fund 
We support nature-based solutions, which refer to conservation, restoration, and improved land management actions 
that increase carbon storage or avoid greenhouse gas emissions in forests, wetlands, and grasslands across the globe.  
 • Support “And/Also” Solutions: We use multiple solutions to reduce carbon emissions—driving reductions  
  across our business operations and also supporting nature-based solutions. 
 • Demonstrate Immediate Action: We demonstrate immediate action toward reducing carbon in the atmosphere   
  and mitigating the adverse effects of climate change. 
 • Promote Global Scale: We catalyze and promote nature-based solutions globally, and prioritize projects that can   
  be scaled broadly. 
 • Optimize for Carbon Mitigation: We fund projects that optimize for carbon removed or avoided, while also   
  being additional, quantifiable, real, permanent, and socially-beneficial. 
 • Improve Market Mechanisms: We improve market mechanisms in order to increase the worldwide quality,   
  supply, and demand for carbon offsets.
Global Projects  
Amazon is working with The Nature Conservancy to identify projects that can create real and lasting carbon reductions, 
while also empowering communities, enhancing natural environments, and protecting wildlife. 
Family Forest Carbon Program and Forest Carbon Co-ops: In April 2020, Amazon announced the funding of $10 
million toward two projects that will help U.S. family forest owners sequester carbon and support expansion across 
Appalachia and other U.S. regions. Scientists at The Nature Conservancy have identified this 
network of climate-resilient forests as most able to thrive in the face of climate change. 
Amazon, The Nature Conservancy, the American Forest Foundation, and the 
Vermont Land Trust are partnering on two innovative projects—the Family Forest 
Carbon Program and Forest Carbon Co-ops. 
The Family Forest Carbon Program will open up carbon credit markets to small 
family forest owners for the first time. Amazon’s commitment will expand the 
program in the Appalachians and other U.S. regions and go towards designing new methods 
for measuring and verifying reforestation and forest management practices. The Forest Carbon Co-op will help 
owners of mid-sized forests use sustainable forest management and protection measures to earn income through the Right Now Climate Fund
Amazon established the Right Now Climate Fund, a $100 million fund to restore 
and conserve forests, wetlands, and grasslands around the world. Through the 
Right Now Climate Fund, we are taking immediate action to remove or avoid 
carbon emissions by supporting nature-based climate solutions.  
13 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUTcarbon credit market. Amazon’s grant will support efforts to expand the program in climate resilient forests across 
the Appalachians, develop a scientific approach to regional carbon impact measurement, and enhance the project 
verification methodology. Amazon is the largest funder of these programs and will help: 
 • Conserve and sustainably manage forest land and wildlife in the Appalachian region, with plans to expand the   
  projects across 4 million acres of the 2,000-mile span of the Appalachians, and beyond. 
 • Generate economic opportunities by creating a new source of income for family forest owners and rural communities  
  that taps into the carbon storage potential of forests. In the U.S., families and individuals own the largest portion of   
  forests (38%)—more than the federal government or corporations.  
 • Achieve a net reduction of up to 18.5 million metric tons of CO2 in the atmosphere by 2031—the equivalent of   
  the emissions of nearly 4 million U.S. cars in a year.
Urban Greening in Germany: Amazon is supporting The Nature Conservancy in an effort to reduce climate change 
risks and increase species biodiversity in three German cities. The initial project is in Berlin’s Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf 
district. Learnings will be applied in two other German locations, and then shared across other European cities. With this, 
Amazon is recognizing the urgency of the climate crisis and its impacts on urban communities. 
Amazon’s commitment will fund The Nature Conservancy’s Urban Greening program, which uses nature-based solutions 
to help cities become more climate-change resilient. The program will collaborate with city officials and local community 
organizations to create and implement plans for:
 • Reducing flood risk by improving rainwater retention through tree planting, revitalizing urban wetlands, and   
  adapting existing green spaces;  
 • Reducing extreme heat and pollution by leveraging unused public spaces to plant trees and improving urban water  
  bodies;  
 • Increasing urban biodiversity by introducing pollinator-friendly species, climate resilient plants, and urban   
  grasslands.
The program starts in the Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf district of Berlin and uses a science-based, municipality-wide, and 
stakeholder-based approach to urban greening to ensure that projects are complementing existing local efforts. Two 
additional German cities will be chosen, in which the initial learnings from Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf will be applied. 
The goal is to share a guide to urban greening with municipalities across Europe by the end of the five-year project.The Climate Pledge Fund
In June 2020, Amazon announced The Climate Pledge Fund to support the 
development of sustainable and decarbonizing technologies and services 
that will enable Amazon and other companies to meet the goals set by The 
Climate Pledge. This dedicated investment program—with an initial $2 billion in 
funding—will invest in visionary companies whose products and solutions will 
facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy.
In order to meaningfully reduce the amount of net greenhouse gas emissions, 
low-carbon solutions need to be developed in all sectors of the global economy. 
The Climate Pledge Fund will invest in companies in multiple industries, with 
an initial focus on: transportation and logistics; energy generation, storage, 
and utilization; manufacturing and materials; circular economy; and food and 
agriculture. Companies of all sizes and stages will be considered, from pre-
product startups to well-established enterprises looking to scale. The scope of 
The Climate Pledge Fund is global and will consider investments in companies 
developing products or services that reduce carbon emissions and help preserve 
the natural world.
14 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUTsmile.amazon.com
Customers
smile.amazon.com
Customers
Amazon is committed to making it easier 
for our customers to participate in making  
a positive impact on the planet and society.
15 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUTEnabling Sustainability  
for our Customers
If you want to join us in supporting local communities and reducing your environmental footprint, here are a  
few easy ways to get started.
Reducing, Reusing, and Recycling 
Find out how to recycle your Amazon packaging by checking out the Amazon Second Chance site. 
Find open-box, pre-owned, and refurbished products at a great price with Amazon Renewed, 
discounted deals on quality used products from Amazon Warehouse, and certified refurbished 
Amazon Devices.
In the U.S., visit Amazon Trade-In to learn how to receive an Amazon Gift Card in exchange for thousands of 
eligible items including Amazon Devices, books, video games, and more.
In North America, visit Amazon Device Recycling to find out how to cut back on clutter and recycle your 
electronic items, ensuring they are disposed of properly.
Across Europe, look for the WEEE symbol on devices, which denotes Electronic and Electrical Equipment eligible for 
takeback under the WEEE Directive. Amazon facilitates recycling of these items, ensuring that they are disposed of 
properly. You can check the Amazon Second Chance website to find a recycling center near you.
If you have an Echo device, Alexa Skills can help you find local recycling centers in the U.S. for specific items like 
lightbulbs and batteries. You can say “Alexa, open Recycling Center” to search for local options. Alexa is constantly 
adding new skills and improving on existing ones. The more people use them, the better they get over time.Amazon has set ambitious goals to make our business more sustainable on  
behalf of customers. Part of our commitment to both sustainability and customers 
includes making it easier for everyone to participate in making a positive impact 
on the planet and society. amzn.to/amsc
16 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUTClimate Pledge Friendly  
Climate Pledge Friendly helps make it easier for customers to discover and shop for more sustainable products on 
Amazon. Customers will see the Climate Pledge Friendly label when shopping, which signifies that the products 
have one or more trusted sustainability certifications.  amzn.to/climate-pledge-friendlySaving Energy and Water 
Install a smart thermostat through Amazon Home Services. Smart home thermostats can help reduce heating and 
cooling energy use by adjusting the temperature by a few degrees depending on the time of day and whether or not 
anyone is home.
Amazon Home Services professionals can help keep your home appliances in good working condition. They can take 
care of heating furnace and water heater maintenance or install a low-flow showerhead for you.
To reduce home electricity and water use at home, search for LED lights on Amazon, or in the U.S., ENERGY STAR, EPEAT,  
or WaterSense-certified products.
Reduce the carbon emissions of your travel. You can use your Echo device to find the closest bikeshare rental by saying 
“Alexa, open TransportMe”. Another Alexa skill, Evie Assistant, will help you find the location of the nearest electric 
vehicle charging station (say “Alexa, open Evie Assistant”). And you can even get an electric vehicle charging station 
installed at your house using Amazon Home Services’ network of installation professionals in the U.S.
Echo devices can also make it easier to save energy or water at home. You can use Alexa-enabled LEDs and smart plugs 
to turn off plugged appliances and devices when you aren’t using them. Alexa skills can also make it fun and easy to 
save energy. For example, you can say “Alexa, open Shower Buddy” to time your showers and use less water, or say 
“Alexa, open Cool My House” to reduce energy consumption.
Supporting Charitable Organizations and Small Businesses 
Shop with AmazonSmile and choose from over a million charities to support. As of February 2020, AmazonSmile has 
donated more than $169 million USD to charities thanks to customers shopping at smile.amazon.com.
Purchase items for a charity by searching AmazonSmile Charity Lists for that charity’s registry. Amazon customers have 
donated more than 600,000 disaster relief items through Charity Lists.
Get involved with COVID-19 relief efforts. Customers can say, “Alexa, make a donation to Feeding America COVID-19 
Response” or use Amazon to donate to charities helping those affected by COVID-19, including Feeding America, 
American Red Cross, and Save the Children. 
Donate directly to hundreds of charities through your Echo device using your Amazon Pay account by saying “Alexa, 
make a donation.”
Support artisans and women entrepreneurs. In Europe and North America, Amazon Handmade offers handcrafted 
artisan goods from around the world. In India, Amazon Saheli offers a wide selection of unique regional products by 
women entrepreneurs across clothing, accessories, office, home, and kitchen.
17 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUT18 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ABOUT
Around the Globe
From building our largest wind farm in rural Texas to supporting women’s 
empowerment programs for our suppliers in Cambodia, Amazon’s sustainability 
efforts are happening all around the globe. amzn.to/around-the-globe
INDIA  
India’s packaging-free 
shipping program has 
expanded to 100+ cities 
across the country.
JAPAN  
850 Sustainability 
Ambassadors are creating  
a culture of sustainability  
in Japan.
GERMANY  
100% of Amazon-
shipped packaging  
is recyclable.
UNITED KINGDOM  
1808 charities received 
Amazon product donations 
in 2019 through our 
partnership with In  
Kind Direct.
ITALY  
4 operations facilities are 
powered by solar energy 
through on-site solar 
installations.
AUSTRALIA 
Our first Australian 
renewable energy project 
will produce the annual 
electricity of ~23,000 
average local households.Environment
20 Sustainable Operations 
31 Circular Economy 
35 Packaging and Products 
44 The Cloud
20Sustainable Operations
20
E
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENTWe are taking a broad, science-based  
approach to measuring and reducing  
carbon emissions in our operations.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT 21Carbon Footprint
Amazon’s corporate carbon footprint quantifies the total greenhouse gas 
emissions attributed to our direct and indirect operational activities. We measure 
our total impact on the climate, map the largest activities contributing to this 
impact, and use this information to develop meaningful carbon reduction goals, 
including our overall goal to reach net zero carbon across Amazon by 2040. 
Our carbon footprint includes emissions from Amazon-operated and third-party freight, electricity use, Amazon branded 
products, capital goods, business travel, packaging, customer trips to Amazon’s stores, and other purchased goods and 
services. The system boundary of our carbon footprint meets widely adopted international standards, including the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064. Our carbon footprint is externally assured by Apex.
Through our commitment to The Climate Pledge, Amazon is investing in a range of large-scale 
solutions to decarbonize our business, some with immediate carbon savings and others with longer-
term payoffs. We have already seen an improvement in the carbon intensity of our business in 
2019 as a result of operational efficiencies such as energy efficiency technologies in fulfillment 
centers and alternative vehicle pilots. Carbon intensity is the metric we use to benchmark our 
performance year over year, as it provides a relative comparison between annual performance 
metrics regardless of other changes to our business. While Amazon’s net sales increased 22% 
in 2019 (excluding changes in foreign exchange rates), our total carbon footprint increased 
15% during the same period. While still early days, our 2019 carbon intensity metric is 122.8 
grams of CO2e per GMS, down 5% year over year from 128.9 grams of CO2e per dollar in 2018. 
Like many companies in high growth mode, we look at the absolute tons of carbon in our 
footprint, but also at how we are improving our carbon intensity. Our first year-over-year 
comparison shows progress as we continue to make investments in innovation, technologies, 
and products that will decarbonize our operations over future years. 
These investments include renewable energy projects like our new solar farm in Virginia, and 
our order of 100,000 electric delivery vehicles, which will be on the road delivering packages 
to customers starting in 2021. It will take several years for the carbon reduction benefits of 
these investments to be fully reflected in our carbon footprint. Over time, both our carbon 
intensity and our absolute carbon footprint will drop as we continue to make progress toward 
net zero carbon. With the launch of The Climate Pledge Fund, we look forward to making 
additional major investments in the coming years that will result in long-term payoffs.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT22Categories MMT CO₂e
Emissions from Direct Operations (Scope 1) 5.76
Fossil Fuels 5.57
Refrigerants 0.19
Emissions from Purchased Electricity  (Scope 2) 5.50
Emissions from Indirect Sources (Scope 3) 39.91
Corporate purchases and Amazon-branded product emissions  
(e.g., operating expenses, business travel, and Amazon-branded  
product manufacturing, use phase, and end of life) 15.41
Capital goods (e.g., building construction, servers and other  
hardware, equipment, vehicles)8.01
Other indirect emissions (e.g., third-party transportation,  
packaging, grid line losses)12.44
Lifecycle emissions from customer trips to Amazon’s physical stores 4.05
Amazon’s Total Footprint 51.17
Our carbon intensity metric, measured as grams of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO₂e) per dollar of Gross Merchandise Sales (GMS), is equal to 122.8 CO₂e per dollar (USD).Amazon’s 2019 Carbon Footprint
Carbon Methodology 
Learn more about the science and technology behind our carbon footprint.  
amzn.to/measuring-carbon 
 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verification Statement 
Read the greenhouse gas emissions verification statement from Apex. 
amzn.to/carbon-assuranceAMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT23Renewable Energy
Amazon has 127 solar and wind projects across the globe that have the capacity to generate over 6,500 megawatts 
(MW) and deliver more than 18 million megawatt hours (MWh) of energy annually—enough to power more than 1.7 
million U.S. homes. These projects supply renewable energy for Amazon’s corporate offices, fulfillment centers, and 
Amazon Web Services (AWS) data centers that support millions of customers globally. 
In March 2020, Amazon announced four new renewable energy projects—the first in Australia, second in Sweden, second 
in Spain, and eleventh in the Commonwealth of Virginia in the U.S. We announced five new renewable energy projects in 
China, Australia, and the U.S. in May 2020. In December 2020, Amazon announced plans to add 26 utility-scale wind and 
solar energy projects, bringing our total investment in renewable energy in 2020 to 35 projects and more than 4 gigawatts 
(GW) of capacity—the largest corporate investment in renewable energy in a single year. These new projects will make 
Amazon the largest-ever corporate purchaser of renewable energy.
One of our latest solar projects in the U.S. is a solar farm in Pittsylvania County, Virginia, which will power Amazon’s new 
Virginia headquarters and other Amazon-owned operations across the Commonwealth, including Whole Foods Markets and 
fulfillment centers. The project is planned for completion by the first quarter of 2022. Amazon has contracted 82 MW of the 
new 120 MW solar farm, which is expected to generate 172,500 MWh of renewable energy annually. 
Our largest wind project to date, Amazon Wind Farm Texas, is a 253 MW wind farm in Scurry County in the western part  
of the state. With more than 100 turbines, the project generates 1 million MWh of wind energy annually—enough to 
power almost 90,000 U.S. homes for a year.
Amazon is on a path to powering our operations with 100% renewable energy by 
2025 as part of our goal to reach net zero carbon by 2040. In 2019, we reached 
42% renewable energy across our business. 
Renewable Energy Methodology  
Learn more about how we calculate Amazon’s renewable energy use.  
amzn.to/renewable-percentage 
 
Renewable Energy Assurance Statement  
Read the renewable energy assurance statement from Apex. 
amzn.to/energy-assurance AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT 24
Shipment Zero
Shipment Zero is Amazon’s vision to make all Amazon shipments net zero carbon, 
with a goal of delivering 50% of shipments with net zero carbon by 2030. 
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT 24Shipment Zero means that the fulfillment operations we undertake to deliver a customer’s shipment are net zero carbon—
from the fulfillment center where an item is picked off the shelf, to the materials used to package the item, and the mode of 
transportation that gets the package to the customer’s door. We are working to launch Shipment Zero deliveries in Europe and 
the U.S., followed by India, Japan, and all other geographies where we operate across the globe.
The emissions sources considered in scope for Shipment Zero are:  
 1. Electricity emissions from powering operations facilities and vehicle charging;
 2. Transportation tailpipe emissions from the burning of fossil fuels in vehicles that transport shipments  
  from inventory to the customer;
 3. Emissions from manufacturing and transporting the materials used in outbound packaging.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT25Fulfillment Facilities  
A Shipment Zero order will travel through fulfillment facilities powered by 100% clean energy from wind and solar projects 
dedicated to Amazon’s electricity needs and from the grid. Customer shipments pass through the following types of 
facilities, all powered by clean energy:
 • Fulfillment centers where Amazon associates pick, pack, and ship customer orders;  
 • Sortation centers where customer orders are sorted by final destination and then consolidated for delivery;  
 • Delivery stations where orders are prepared for last-mile delivery to a customer’s door. 
More than 60 Amazon facilities across the globe are already powered by on-site solar panels, which generate as much  
as 80% of a single fulfillment facility’s annual energy needs. 
Packaging  
A Shipment Zero order will be shipped without added Amazon packaging or in carbon neutral packaging. Ships In 
Own Container (SIOC) is a tier of certification within Amazon’s Frustration-Free Packaging program, certifying that a 
product’s original packaging is designed to ship without the need for an Amazon shipping box. We work closely with 
manufacturers to develop and test packaging that meets SIOC certification, and we share these innovations publicly 
to drive improvements across the industry. In India, we designed a new way to deliver customer orders packaging-free. 
Orders that ship in their original packaging are delivered in a protective, reusable crate in 100+ cities across India.
A second option is to ship in carbon neutral packaging that is made of net zero carbon materials, is produced with zero 
carbon emissions, and is delivered to Amazon fulfillment facilities using zero carbon. While we work to increase SIOC-
certified products, expand packaging-free shipping programs, and develop carbon neutral packaging solutions, we will 
continue to pursue packaging improvements by optimizing the size and weight of shipping materials, inventing new 
recyclable mailers, and working with suppliers to streamline and innovate product packaging.
Transportation  
A Shipment Zero order will be transported in a zero-emissions delivery vehicle or by a delivery associate on foot or 
on bicycle. Zero-emissions delivery vehicles are 100% battery electric or hydrogen-fueled, in addition to electric bikes 
and electric three-wheelers. Amazon’s order of 100,000 electric delivery vehicles in 2019 is a major stride toward zero 
carbon transportation across our global network, and we are proud to operate many electric vans and trucks today.  
We also leverage innovative technology to maximize efficiency on the road and reduce delivery distances by placing 
delivery stations close to large Amazon customer populations.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT26Sustainable Transportation
Electrifying Our Transport Fleets 
In 2019, Amazon ordered 100,000 electric delivery vehicles from Rivian, a U.S. electric vehicle manufacturer. This order, 
the largest order ever of electric delivery vehicles, sends a signal to the marketplace to start inventing and developing new 
technologies that large, global companies need to transition to a low-carbon economy. We plan to start using these new 
vehicles from Rivian to deliver packages to customers by 2021, with 10,000 new vehicles on the road as early as 2022 and 
all 100,000 vehicles on the road by 2030. This is projected to save millions of metric tons of carbon per year by 2030.
Amazon already operates hundreds of electric vehicles across the globe. Amazon India is adding 10,000 electric delivery 
vehicles to its existing fleet by 2025, including 3-wheeler and 4-wheeler vehicles designed and manufactured in India. 
These vehicles are in addition to Amazon’s order of 100,000 electric delivery vehicles from Rivian. Across Europe, 
Amazon is contracting with our service providers to launch a low-pollution last-mile fleet comprised of electric and 
natural gas vans and cars. We have added hundreds of electric vehicle charging stations at our European facilities for our 
partners to use, with plans to expand this infrastructure to support more sustainable deliveries. We use electric cargo 
bikes in cities around the world, including a pilot in New York City in 2019. In North America, Amazon has also deployed 
electric yard hostlers, which are used to move trailers around facilities.Transportation is a major component of Amazon’s business operations and  
a key part of our plan to meet net zero carbon by 2040. We are committed to 
optimizing and transforming our transportation network through innovations  
in electrification, efficiency enhancements, and alternative delivery methods. AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT27Maximizing Efficiency on Current Vehicles 
While we work to adopt the most efficient, cutting-edge vehicle technologies, we are also maximizing efficiencies on our 
existing fleets. Across North America and Europe, our fleet includes a mix of trailers in different sizes that are equipped 
with skirts (panels attached to the lower side edges of a trailer to make it more aerodynamic) and automatic tire 
inflation systems that keep tires properly inflated and maximize fuel efficiency. 
We use mud flaps designed to allow airflow and water to pass through them, minimizing drag and saving an average 
of 100 gallons of diesel fuel per vehicle annually. In Europe, we have deployed over 500 hydraulically powered double-
deck trailers. Double-deck trailers improve space utilization by up to 70% in comparison to standard semi-trailers, 
reducing the total number of trucks on the road.
Optimizing Our Delivery Logistics 
Amazon is constantly working to optimize our delivery network and drive efficiencies in the process of delivering our 
products. To fulfill customer orders quickly, we have thousands of vehicles moving from fulfillment centers to delivery 
destinations. We use data and algorithms to consolidate as many shipments as possible onto one vehicle or plane. We 
also analyze which items are being ordered most frequently, by location, to ensure that the inventory of those items is 
stored nearby, minimizing the need to use planes or trucks for long-distance deliveries. By boosting efficiencies across 
our network, we are able to put fewer vehicles and planes into service.
Using Alternative Delivery Methods 
We are continually piloting new or alternative ideas in different locations around the world in an effort to increase our 
efficiency and reduce emissions. In urban centers like New York City, we deliver packages on foot, have expanded our  
use of traditional bicycles, and use pedal-assist electric bikes connected to cargo trailers that can carry up to 45 
packages. In India, our fleet includes electric three-wheelers and compressed natural gas (CNG) vehicles. Electric bikes 
and CNG vehicles are also part of our delivery fleet in Europe. Additionally, we’re developing fully electric autonomous 
delivery services, such as the Amazon Scout device and Prime Air drones, which will make deliveries faster and more 
efficient than road deliveries.
Partnering with Experts and Industry 
In 2017, Amazon signed the Sustainable Fuel Buyers’ Principles, demonstrating our commitment to working with service 
providers to accelerate the transition to low-carbon commercial transportation solutions. Members of the nonprofit 
Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Future of Fuels group developed The Buyers’ Principles and vetted them through 
its network of 600 expert and industry stakeholders. These principles outline criteria that will catalyze the partnerships 
needed to drive the transition to a sustainable road freight transportation system.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT28Sustainable Buildings
As part of our commitment to The Climate Pledge, Amazon is working to reduce 
the carbon emissions associated with our buildings and facilities across the globe. 
We are transitioning our buildings to be net zero carbon, powered by renewable 
energy, and highly energy efficient, with demonstrated reductions in embodied 
carbon—the emissions associated with a building’s construction materials.
We are also working to improve the resource efficiency of our buildings beyond energy, with a focus on water and waste 
reduction strategies across our facilities. In all of our buildings, we seek to create safe, productive, and inspiring spaces 
that support the health and well-being of our employees, local environment, and community, both inside and outdoors.
Green Building Standards 
We are committed to holding our buildings to the highest standards of sustainable design, and we pursue third-party 
building certification when doing so accelerates our impact. Amazon has nearly 30 LEED certified buildings in the U.S. 
—the majority of which have Gold and Platinum level certification—and more than 20 BREEAM certified buildings 
across Europe. We also engage with industry-leading programs that support the transition to net zero carbon in the 
built environment, such as the Carbon Leadership Forum. 
Corporate Offices 
Our global corporate offices are often located in vibrant communities and urban hubs.  
When designing our offices, we strive to integrate seamlessly with these communities while 
creating easy outdoor access for our employees and visitors. Many of our buildings offer public 
plazas and open green spaces for communal and public use. Even more feature green roofs and 
other green infrastructure that provide outdoor amenity space while supporting ecological 
functions like stormwater management.
Our buildings’ interiors integrate biophilic design concepts, such as green walls and 
locally-sourced woods, in addition to energy-efficient lighting, composting and 
recycling, and amenity spaces for employee wellness. Many Amazon buildings 
also offer plug-in electric vehicle charging stations for employees and visitors.
Sustainability in Action at Our Seattle Campus:  
Our flagship Seattle campus features some of our most innovative 
sustainable design practices. A subterranean district energy system heats 
many of our buildings in the Denny Triangle neighborhood using waste 
heat generated from a neighboring data center. Above ground, employees 
and visitors can enjoy The Spheres, an indoor plant conservatory 
featuring 40,000 plants from the cloud forest regions of more than 
30 countries, along with a 4,000 square foot green wall.  AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT29100% Renewable Energy at HQ2 in Arlington: Our second U.S. headquarters in Arlington, Virginia, known as  
“HQ2,” will use 100% renewable energy to power the four-million-square-foot campus, which is scheduled to be 
completed by 2022. We are constructing a new solar farm in Pittsylvania County, Virginia to power HQ2 and other 
Amazon-owned operations in the area, including Whole Foods Market stores and nearby fulfillment centers. A portion 
of the renewable energy generated from this solar farm will be allocated to Arlington County, a move that also helps 
advance the county’s renewable energy goals. The location for the HQ2 campus was strategically determined to provide 
walkable access to public transportation, bike storage, and local amenities such as shops, restaurants, and childcare. 
International Offices: We aim to take best practices from across our global locations and embed them at our 
offices all over the world. Our corporate offices in Munich, Germany, have been certified Gold for environmental 
design by the German Sustainable Building Council based on their energy-efficient interiors and use of sustainable 
building materials. In Luxembourg, efficient chillers and an advanced building management system cut energy costs, 
while rooftop beehives supply honey, and food is served in compostable and biodegradable containers.
Operations Facilities 
With more than 175 facilities covering 150 million square feet of space across the world, Amazon fulfillment centers, 
sortation centers, and delivery stations account for a major part of our embodied carbon. In 2020, Amazon began an  
in-depth study of our operations buildings in order to transition these facilities to net zero carbon. The study 
examines the energy intensity of these buildings and identifies ways to meet zero carbon through energy efficiency 
enhancements, new technology pilots, and significant reductions in embodied carbon. This year, Amazon will update  
its design templates and criteria to capture these changes, and apply net zero strategies across all global regions. 
On-Site Solar: Many of our facilities throughout the U.S., Europe, and India are powered by on-site solar, where 
a rooftop installation can power up to 80% of a facility’s energy use. In 2019, we achieved a goal to install solar 
technology on 50 rooftops worldwide by 2020, a year ahead of schedule. We now have more than 60 rooftop solar 
installations on operations facilities around the world and we continue to scale this program. 
Minimizing Energy Use at Operations Facilities: Our operations facilities are designed with efficient building 
systems to minimize energy use. We are expanding our use of building control system technology and real-time data 
analytics to optimize our heating and cooling systems for occupant comfort while operating as efficiently as possible. 
We use highly-efficient motors and advanced controls in our conveyor systems to move packages efficiently throughout 
our facilities, and we are testing new technologies to further reduce the energy use of material handling equipment. 
Through building retrofits and energy studies, we are continuously improving and learning to optimize the efficiency  
of our operations, uncover savings opportunities, and help drive carbon out of our fulfillment operations.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT30Data Centers  
Amazon Web Services (AWS) has always focused on efficiency and continuous innovation in our data centers to improve 
operational excellence and reduce our impact on the environment. In addition to our efforts on energy efficiency and 
our goal to achieve 100% renewable energy for our global infrastructure, AWS has multiple initiatives to improve our 
water use efficiency and reduce the use of potable (drinking) water for cooling data centers. 
AWS develops our water use strategy by evaluating climate patterns for each AWS Region (a physical location around 
the world where we cluster data centers), local water management and availability, and the opportunity to conserve 
drinking water sources. Taking a holistic approach, we assess both the water and energy usage of each potential cooling 
solution to select the most efficient method. 
Whole Foods Market 
Whole Foods Market has several all-electric stores in California and dozens of buildings certified by LEED and Green 
Globes across North America. Every store provides a high-quality indoor experience for employees and customers, 
with ample daylight and amenity space. Stores in the San Francisco Bay Area have piloted a technology that combines 
advanced cloud computing, predictive analytics, and a thermal energy storage retrofit to modulate their refrigeration 
systems during peak energy. 
Whole Foods Market is a founding partner of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s GreenChill program, which 
helps food retailers transition to alternative refrigerants, reduce refrigerant charge sizes, eliminate leaks, and adopt 
green refrigeration technologies. Whole Foods Market has piloted various technologies to reduce carbon emissions from 
the use of refrigerants. For example, multiple stores across the U.S. and Canada use natural refrigerants, which contain 
zero ozone depletion potential and very low global warming potential. Circular Economy
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT 31
31We are minimizing waste, increasing recycling, 
and providing options for our customers to 
reuse, repair, and recycle their products—sending 
less material to the landfill and more back into 
the circular economy loop. AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT32Recycling
Recycling Infrastructure  
In addition to optimizing our recycling efforts for common materials like cardboard, we are working to address the 
materials that are toughest to recycle in our operations. Plastic film, for example, is a difficult material to process and 
recycle, and is not accepted by most curbside recycling programs. To address this gap, Amazon is launching plastic film 
recycling at more than 55 fulfillment centers across our network. Through this program, we expect to recycle more than 
7,000 tons of plastic film per year, in addition to the 1,500 tons of plastic already being recycled annually in Europe.
We are also exploring alternative solutions for less common materials that cannot be recycled. In the UK, for example,  
we collect the silicone backing paper from shipping labels to convert into animal bedding. We are looking across our entire 
operations network to incorporate more of our own recycled plastic in products, packaging, and operational processes.
Recyclable Mailers 
In 2019, we launched a fully recyclable paper padded mailer that protects products during shipping while taking up 
less space in transit. This ensures customer deliveries arrive undamaged and in recyclable packaging with a lower 
carbon footprint. The recyclable mailer is made of four layers of paper and a water-based cushioning material using 
components commonly found in the glue used to make cardboard. The lightweight recyclable cushioning was 
specifically designed to easily separate from the paper in the same way that print inks and other paper coatings are 
removed during the paper recycling process. 
Recycling Partnerships 
At Amazon, we know our customers care about minimizing the amount of waste that ends up in landfill. To improve 
curbside recycling in the U.S., we partnered with The Recycling Partnership, which supports communities and local 
governments with education, infrastructure, and measurement related to curbside recycling.
We also invested $10 million in the Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund to finance recycling and circular economy 
infrastructure in North America. Through this investment, Amazon aims to increase product and packaging recycling, 
ensuring that material gets back into the manufacturing supply chain. Over the next decade, our investment in the 
Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund will improve curbside recycling for 3 million homes in communities across the U.S., 
diverting 1 million tons of recyclable material from landfill and eliminating the equivalent of 2 million metric tons  
of carbon dioxide.Amazon is committed to reducing our environmental footprint through recycling 
initiatives in our own operations and for our customers. We are developing new 
recycling infrastructure, inventing recyclable packaging materials, and investing  
in initiatives that support the recycling industry across the U.S. 33Amazon Second Chance
Customers who have eligible items they no longer want can discover the Amazon Trade-In program, which allows 
them to receive an Amazon.com Gift Card in exchange for thousands of eligible items including Amazon devices, cell 
phones, video games, and more. In addition, customers wanting to responsibly dispose of their electronics can discover 
our device recycling program for a variety of electronics and related accessories.
Amazon also gives customers several options to shop for great deals on open-box or gently-used items. Amazon 
Warehouse —an online store for great deals on quality used products including furniture, toys, instruments, kitchen 
appliances, clothes, and more—has an extensive inspection process that ensures as many gently-used returned items 
as possible can be resold rather than being sent to landfill. Amazon Renewed offers refurbished, pre-owned, and 
open-box products such as computers, laptops, smartphones, tablets, cameras, audio devices, home appliances, and 
more. And Certified Refurbished and Used Amazon Devices provides customers access to pre-owned Amazon devices 
such as Echo, Fire Tablets, Kindle E-readers, and more. Certified Refurbished devices have been refurbished, tested, 
and internally certified by Amazon to look and work like new. All of these programs reduce waste and encourage re-
use by ensuring that valuable products can go back into the hands of customers rather than being sent to landfills.
Amazon also encourages customers to fix the things they buy before replacing, returning, or disposing of them. 
Amazon offers free Product Support (on a select but growing number of items) with the goal of helping customers 
maximize the useful life of the things they already own. Product Support serves seven global geographies with 
technical support, parts replacement, and repair services. Helping customers responsibly dispose of Amazon 
packaging is another key component of Second Chance. Customers are able to view various types of Amazon 
packaging and are provided with instructions on how and where to dispose of the materials.
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENTAmazon Second Chance provides information on how to trade in, recycle, or 
repair products, how to recycle Amazon packaging, and how to find open-box and 
refurbished devices. Customers may visit Second Chance to learn about and compare 
programs that help eliminate waste and give products a second life.  
amzn.to/amsc34Product Donations
Amazon partners with Feeding America and Good360 to donate surplus inventory and distribute products to 
communities in need across the U.S. In 2019, Amazon and Whole Foods Market donated 37.5 million meals and 
200,000 pounds (90,700 kilograms) of household essentials to Feeding America through its donation program. 
Throughout countries in Europe, we collaborate with local food banks and non-food charities to donate products to 
communities in need. Amazon is a long-term partner of the German nonprofit Innatura, which brokers in-kind donations 
to charitable organizations. Through this partnership, Amazon has donated to more than 1,500 charities benefiting 
nearly 500,000 individuals and families in Germany with donations including toys, shoes, clothing, and drugstore items, 
among others. 
Amazon works with In Kind Direct, a national charity in the UK that manages the donation of surplus products 
to charities across the country. Since partnering with In Kind Direct, we have donated more than $8.7 million (£7 
million) worth of products. In 2019 alone, we donated $1.2 million (£1 million) to over 2,000 charities and voluntary 
organizations across the UK. 
Amazon is also investing in automated systems that enable third-party sellers to donate their surplus inventory to local 
charities. This new program has quickly become popular, with 97% of sellers on Amazon in the U.S. opting to donate 
their surplus inventory. This program also launched in the UK with nine local charity partners and will expand to France 
by the end of 2020. In the last three months of 2019 alone, third-party sellers donated a combined 3 million products 
to communities in need through this new automated system. At Amazon facilities around the world, we are continuously expanding initiatives 
to maximize the positive impact of our surplus inventory. We contribute food and 
non-food product donations to hundreds of food banks and nonprofits, reducing 
landfill waste and helping our local communities. 
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENTPackaging and Products
We are redesigning packaging to reduce 
waste and making our private-label products 
and devices in responsible ways.
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT 35AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT36
Reducing Packaging Waste
Sustainable Packaging Initiatives 
Our sustainable packaging initiatives reduce waste and make it easier for customers to remove products from packaging. 
Unlike traditional retail stores, products bought online don’t need the elaborate packaging used for displaying products 
on store shelves. Instead, customers use star ratings and reviews to guide their online shopping decisions. 
Our Frustration-Free Packaging (FFP) program encourages manufacturers to package their products in easy-to-open 
packaging that is 100% recyclable and ready to ship to customers without additional Amazon boxes. Since 2015, 
we have reduced the weight of outbound packaging by 33% and eliminated more than 900,000 tons of packaging 
material, the equivalent of 1.6 billion shipping boxes.
To certify products under Amazon’s FFP program, we help manufacturers 
innovate and improve their packaging functionality. By testing products in 
a dedicated, state-of-the-art lab in Seattle and in our fulfillment centers 
across the globe, we identify specific steps that manufacturers can take to 
improve their packaging and ensure products are protected all the way to the 
customer’s doorstep.
Today, more than 2 million products qualify under our FFP program. 
Philips, for example, was inspired by our FFP program to reinvent their 
packaging. The new Norelco OneBlade razor design now has 80% 
less packaging volume, is fully recyclable, and delights customers with 
print on the inside of the box which enhances the opening experience
Machine Learning 
How big of a box is needed for a given product? Is an Amazon box 
needed at all? To find out, we use machine learning algorithms to 
arrive at the best possible packaging choices for deliveries. That means 
identifying which products don’t need packaging at all, and which 
smaller products are suitable for envelopes or mailers. In cases where 
the protection of a box is needed, algorithms help us continuously 
optimize box choices to fit our ever-changing catalog. Computer-aided 
engineering also helps us redesign boxes to use less material while 
making sure customer orders are protected. These improvements Our customers want right-sized, recyclable packaging that minimizes waste and 
ensures damage-free delivery. We work to reinvent and simplify our sustainable 
packaging options using a science-based approach that combines lab testing, 
machine learning, materials science, and manufacturing partnerships to scale 
sustainable change across the packaging supply chain.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT37reduce volume per shipment, which means less unnecessary packaging and more efficient use of all forms of 
transportation, reducing carbon in small amounts to create a larger impact across our network.
We also use machine learning to help target products where even small packaging improvements can have significant 
impacts on reducing waste. We developed a machine learning model to identify liquid products with the highest average 
rates of customer reported damages. We then subjected those products to extensive additional testing at our Amazon 
Packaging Lab, where we simulate a package’s journey from the manufacturer to the customer.
Through this process, we’ve teamed up with companies like Rieke—a packaging solutions firm that makes dispensing 
systems for personal care, food, and healthcare products—to provide data and packaging insights on many of the 
conventional dispensing systems that are used in millions of products on Amazon. By strengthening materials, 
creating new locking mechanisms to prevent pumps from twisting open, and sealing potential leak points, Rieke’s 
team has created dispensers specially designed to withstand the journey to the customer. These new and improved 
designs include trigger sprayers common on household cleaners and personal care products, pumps for lotions, and 
pumps for foams.
Engaging with Vendors and Industry 
We work with top brands and vendors to reinvent their packaging for waste reduction in e-commerce, including 
optimized packaging that allow products to be shipped in their own container. The toy maker Hasbro, for example, 
redesigned the packaging for its popular toy, Baby Alive, reducing both the amount of material used and the overall 
package size by more than 50%. The pet food company Hill’s Pet Nutrition reworked its packaging to make bags of 
kibble less likely to break and spill during shipment; testing at Amazon validated the redesigned packaging.
We are working across the packaging industry, using new analytics and test methods, new materials, and new ways 
to build enclosures that protect customer products. With packaging suppliers, for example, we have developed 
solutions for liquid dispensing systems on hard-to-ship items, such as household cleaners and personal care 
products, preventing spills and the need for extra packaging to contain spills if they happen.
Amazon is a member of the Sustainable Packaging Coalition (SPC), an industry working group dedicated to a more 
robust environmental vision for packaging. SPC uses strong member support, an informed and science-based 
approach, supply chain collaborations, and continuous outreach to design packaging that encourages a 
sustainable flow of materials. Amazon has also joined the International Safe Transit Association (ISTA), an 
organization focused on the specific concerns of transport packaging. ISTA is a nonprofit, member-driven 
association that sets the standards for optimizing the resources in packages that are designed to be  
survivable, sustainable, and successful.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT38Sustainable Products and Materials
Sustainable products cover a range of attributes intended to preserve the natural world, and we strive to help Amazon 
customers easily discover and shop products that exceed the environmental benefits of comparable products.
For Amazon-owned Private Brand products and Amazon devices, we work with many of the manufacturers and suppliers 
that produce our private-label selection to drive sustainability improvements through materials and ingredients, design, 
sourcing, and manufacturing technology. Our global teams also work closely with suppliers to communicate our human 
rights standards, and help suppliers build their capacity to provide safe and respectful working environments.Amazon aims to be Earth’s most customer-centric company, which means giving 
our customers access to the sustainable products they want. From thousands 
of Amazon-branded products to millions of retail and third-party items sold on 
Amazon, we are working to reduce the environmental impact of the products we 
manufacture and provide customers more information about the sustainability 
attributes associated with the items we sell. AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT39Household Goods 
Many Amazon customers prioritize safety and sustainability when it comes to household goods like cleaning supplies 
and personal care products. Customers want to be sure the products they buy are safe for their families and help pre-
serve the planet, without compromising on quality or price. 
We are working to increase the sustainable attributes of many of our Private Brand selections, from bio-based laundry 
and dish soaps that offer an effective, alternative choice to conventional formulas, to beauty products that are formulat -
ed without harmful chemicals. As part of that commitment, we implemented a Chemicals Policy and Restricted Sub-
stance List (RSL), both of which apply to Amazon-owned baby, household cleaning, personal care, and beauty brands. To 
support the broader retail sector’s collaborative effort to use safer formulations and produce more sustainable products, 
Amazon joined the Retail Leadership Council of the Green Chemistry and Commerce Council (GC3).
We also take an active role in promoting sustainability with our selling partners. For example, we teamed up with Procter 
& Gamble to develop the Tide Eco-Box, a concentrated version of Tide’s traditional laundry detergent compressed into a 
fully recyclable, shipping-safe package, which is produced using 60% less plastic and 30% less water than a convention-
al plastic jug. Countless other Amazon selling partners offer biodegradable and plant-based options for staples like dish 
detergent and multi-purpose cleaners.
Food and Grocery 
Sustainable food selection means something different to each customer. Across our Amazon food and 
grocery businesses, we make it easy for customers to find a range of options like free range, pasture-fed, 
organic, and fair trade groceries.
As sellers of animal-derived products, we recognize our responsibility to uphold animal welfare within our supply 
chain. We expect our suppliers to uphold the Five Freedoms framework for animal welfare, including freedom from 
hunger and thirst; freedom from discomfort; freedom from pain, injury, or disease; freedom to express normal be-
havior; and freedom from fear and distress. We expect our suppliers to comply with all applicable laws and to take a 
zero-tolerance approach to animal cruelty, abuse, and neglect. We encourage suppliers to continuously improve their 
animal welfare standards and practices, and to work towards recognized animal welfare certifications or industry 
guidelines that include welfare provisions.
At Whole Foods Market in the U.S., we sell high quality natural and organic foods. We research ingredients and audit 
sourcing practices for Whole Foods Private Brand products to make shopping easier for customers. In our meat 
department, products are free of added hormones or antibiotics, and no cages or tethers are permitted during the 
animal’s daily life. Our seafood department sources only from responsibly managed fish farms and fisheries. The 
Whole Trade Guarantee found on produce and other items signifies that a product meets criteria that support both 
workers and the environment.
 
 
 
 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT40Palm Oil 
Palm oil is used extensively as an ingredient in consumer products. However, its cultivation has contributed to deforestation, 
biodiversity loss, and negative social impacts in some of the regions where it is grown. Our approach is to promote the use of 
sustainably-certified palm oil in our Private Brand food products and ask our Private Brand suppliers to source palm oil that is 
sustainably-certified. We are starting with Amazon-owned Private Brand food products in North America and across Europe, 
where our goal is to source 100% sustainable palm oil by the end of 2020.
Chemicals
We are committed to developing high-quality and affordable Amazon-owned Private Brand products that 
customers love. Part of our commitment to quality is avoiding chemicals of concern in our products that can 
affect human health and/or the environment. We define chemicals of concern as those chemicals that: (1) meet 
the criteria for classification as a carcinogen, mutagen, or reproductive or other systemic toxicant; or (2) are 
persistent, bioaccumulative, and toxic. We strategically prioritize which chemicals of concern to focus on based on 
product type, customer concerns, and the availability of safer alternatives.
The baseline list of chemicals of concern included on our first Restricted Substance List (RSL) identifies the chemicals 
that we seek to avoid in Amazon-owned Private Brand baby, household cleaning, personal care, and beauty products 
in the U.S. and Europe. This policy is in addition to applicable local legal requirements and associated compliance 
plans. It will be expanded to additional brands, product categories, and geographies over time. Read more about our 
chemicals policy.  amzn.to/materialsAMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT41Cotton: We are working to ensure that all cotton used in Amazon-owned Private Brand apparel products is sourced 
sustainably by the end of 2022. This includes cotton sourced from recycled materials, or from farms certified as 
organic or licensed by the Better Cotton Initiative, a global nonprofit that aims to transform the cotton supply chain by 
developing Better Cotton as a sustainable mainstream commodity.
In 2019, Amazon signed the Responsible Sourcing Network’s public Cotton Pledge, committing to not source cotton from 
Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan until the pervasive use of government-mandated forced labor is stopped. Amazon prohibits 
forced labor within our supply chains, and we have internal controls and external engagements to address forced labor within 
global supply chains. This pledge represents an additional step in that direction and lends Amazon’s voice in demanding an end 
to forced labor in these two countries. 
Cellulosic fibers: By 2022, we will ensure that none of the man-made cellulosic fibers—including rayon/viscose, lyocell, 
and modal—sourced for Amazon-owned Private Brand apparel products are derived from ancient and endangered forests, 
or from endangered species’ habitats or other controversial sources, as defined by the nonprofit organization Canopy’s tools 
and reports. Our approach to cellulosics includes using fabrics that provide assurance on traceability and use best available 
processing technology, as well as supporting the use of innovative lower impact alternative fiber sources, such as recycled 
fiber from used clothing.
Recycled fabrics: We will increase the use of recycled fabrics in Amazon-owned Private Brand apparel products, 
including moving from conventional to recycled polyester, and launching products made from innovative recycled 
fibers. In 2020, we joined the Textile Exchange, a global nonprofit that works with its members to drive industry 
transformation in preferred fibers, including recycled materials.
Leather: In 2020, we joined the Leather Working Group, a nonprofit membership organization that works to improve 
environmental stewardship within the global leather industry. By the end of 2023, we will source all leather used in Amazon-
owned Private Brand apparel and shoe products from tanneries that meet the Leather Working Group’s bronze level award 
or higher.
Product labels: As of 2020, all new woven labels in Amazon-owned Private Brand apparel products are made from 
recycled fabric and all new swing tags are made from FSC-certified paper.Fashion and Apparel
At Amazon, we’re committed to making it easier for our customers to choose high-
quality, sustainable apparel products. We are working to lower the environmental 
impact of our Amazon-owned Private Brand apparel products and we partner 
directly with suppliers of these products to find solutions that promote the use 
of sustainably-produced fabrics and recycled materials. We are starting our work 
in the U.S. and Europe, and will expand to additional geographies over time. To 
incorporate industry best practices and support collective action, we are proud to 
collaborate with leading apparel partners, including the Better Cotton Initiative, 
Textile Exchange, Sustainable Apparel Coalition, and Leather Working Group.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT42Recycled Materials 
We are incorporating recycled plastics, fabrics, and metals into many new Amazon devices, giving new life to materials 
that could otherwise end up in waste streams. The recycled materials used in our devices launching in 2020 could fill 
over 800 garbage trucks worth of plastics, fabrics, and aluminum.
Devices and Sustainability
Amazon aims to be Earth’s most customer-centric company, which means as part 
of Amazon’s commitment to The Climate Pledge, we are working to make Amazon 
devices more sustainable, from how we make them to how customers use them. 
We complete life cycle assessments to help us understand the environmental 
impact of each device type and use these learnings to set goals, from using 
recycled materials to investing in renewable energy. We are building a future in 
which customers will be able to control their smart homes or read, listen, and 
watch on their devices, knowing that Amazon is reducing its carbon footprint.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT43Device Packaging 
When it comes to sustainability, we are not just focused on improving our devices, but on their packaging too. 
We are working to source 100% of the wood fiber in this packaging from responsibly managed forests or 
recycled sources. We’re reducing single-use plastic, eliminating over 9 million bags from our device packaging in 
2020 alone. Our goal is to make Amazon devices packaging 100% curbside recyclable and plastic-free by 2023. 
We are also redesigning the shipping package to reduce waste.
Energy 
We strive to make our devices energy efficient because it’s good for the planet and our customers. That’s why we’ve 
added a Low Power Mode feature to select devices that reduces their energy consumption during periods of inactivity 
over their lifetime. Making our devices more energy efficient is not enough to get to net zero carbon. So, starting in 
2020, Amazon is building new wind and solar farms to produce clean energy equivalent to the electricity used by every 
customer’s Echo device. We have a bold goal to continue building new renewable energy projects until we account for the 
energy consumption of all Amazon devices.
Investing in Clean Energy 
Amazon works with energy companies to bring new renewable projects online to produce clean energy equivalent to the 
electricity used by our devices. To size these projects, we model and measure the energy consumed by our devices in different 
types of use, then project their total average global annual electricity consumption. The first new wind and solar farms are 
expected to come online in 2022 and 2023, and will produce clean energy equivalent to the electricity used by every customer’s 
Echo device. Until then, we will invest in renewable energy certificates to support clean energy projects, matching the quantity of 
electricity our customers’ Echo devices use until the new projects come online. Our Amazon renewable energy portfolio is global, 
and in the coming years we will expand our devices renewable energy portfolio into other regions where our devices are used.
Alexa 
Customers can track and manage the energy consumed by compatible devices in their homes with an energy dashboard, 
coming soon to the Alexa app. Plus, if Alexa has a Hunch that a customer is away and forgot to turn off a light, Alexa will 
automatically turn it off — helping customers conserve energy without even thinking about it. Collectively, this can help 
save energy and reduce carbon emissions.
Trade In or Recycle 
We build our devices to last, but there may come a time when customers want to trade in or recycle their device. 
Customers in the U.S. can explore their options with Amazon Second Chance. Eligible devices qualify for an Amazon.com 
Gift Card equal to the value of the trade-in, plus a discount toward the purchase of a new eligible Amazon device. For 
devices that are not eligible for trade-in, we offer customers a recycling program for electronic items including Amazon 
devices and accessories.
The Cloud
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT 44Amazon Web Services (AWS) is committed 
to running our business in the most 
environmentally friendly way possible and 
achieving 100% renewable energy usage for our 
global infrastructure.Learn how AWS is working to achieve 
Amazon’s goal of 100% renewable 
energy.
2015
2014
2016OCT 2016
JUN 2016
APR 2015JAN 2016
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT 45Amazon Solar Farm U.S. 
East is now in production 
in Accomack County, 
Virginia. Amazon launches Wind Farm 
Fowler Ridge, marking the first 
of our four announced renew-
able energy projects to move 
into full operation.
AWS announces five new solar farms across the Common-
wealth of Virginia. These solar farms join the company’s 
existing project, Amazon Solar Farm U.S. East, which went into 
production in October 2016. Amazon worked with developers 
Virginia Solar LLC and Community Energy Solar on the proj-
ects and will further collaborate with an affiliate of Dominion 
Resources, Inc. to own and operate the solar farms.
Amazon joins Apple, Google, and Microsoft in 
filing an Amicus Brief that supports the continued 
implementation of the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s Clean Power Plan (CPP) and discusses the 
technology industry’s growing desire for affordable 
renewable energy across the U.S. AWS announces that it has 
teamed with Community Energy, 
Inc. to construct and operate 
Amazon Solar Farm U.S. East.AWS shares 
its long-term 
commitment to 
achieve 100% 
renewable energy 
usage for the 
global AWS 
infrastructure 
footprint.
AWS announces that 
it has teamed with 
Pattern Development 
to construct and op-
erate Amazon Wind 
Farm Fowler Ridge.AWS announces that it 
has contracted with EDP 
Renewables to construct 
and operate Amazon Wind 
Farm U.S. Central.AWS announces 
that it has contract -
ed with Iberdrola 
Renewables, LLC 
to construct and op-
erate Amazon Wind 
Farm U.S. East.
Amazon joins The Buyers’ Princi-
ples to collaborate with more than 
40 other companies on making 
clean energy solutions more af -
fordable and accessible to all. NOV 2016
APR 2016
JUN 2015
SEP 2015
NOV 2014JAN 2015NOV  2015JUL  2015
AWS and Dominion 
Virginia Power join forces 
on a landmark renewable 
energy delivery deal. 
With this, Dominion Vir-
ginia Power will manage 
and integrate the energy 
produced from various 
Amazon wind and solar 
farm projects onto the 
grid that serves AWS 
data centers.Amazon announces joining 
the American Council on 
Renewable Energy (ACORE) 
and will participate in 
the U.S. Partnership for 
Renewable Energy Finance 
(U.S. PREF) to increase our 
work with state and federal 
policymakers and other 
stakeholders to enable more 
renewable energy opportu-
nities for cloud providers.2019
2018
2017
2020AUG 2019
DEC 2017
AWS announces three new wind farms—
one in Ireland, one in Sweden, and one in 
the U.S. When complete, these projects  
are expected to produce 670,000 MWh  
of renewable energy annually. AWS announces 
three new renew-
able energy projects 
in the U.S. and UK. 
Combined, these 
projects are expect -
ed to produce 265 
MW of additional 
renewable capacity 
and approximately 
670,000 MWh of 
energy annually.Amazon announces 
three new renewable 
energy projects in the 
U.S. and Spain, which 
are expected to pro-
duce a combined 329 
MW of additional re-
newable capacity and 
almost 700,000 MWh 
of energy annually. 
DEC 2020
OCT 2019APR 2019AWS announces four new renewable 
energy projects in Australia, Spain, 
Sweden, and the U.S. Combined, these 
projects are expected to produce al-
most 300 MW of additional renewable 
capacity and approximately 840,000 
MWh of energy annually.  
MAR 2020
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT 46AWS announces two new 
renewable energy proj-
ects in Europe and the 
U.S., which are expected 
to produce approximately 
168,000 MWh of clean 
energy annually.Five solar farms that AWS previously 
announced are now in operation in the 
Commonwealth of Virginia. Together 
with Amazon Solar Farm U.S. East, the 
six solar farms bring 260 MW of renew-
able energy capacity onto the grid.
AWS exceeds 
50% renewable 
energy usage for 
2018.
2018Amazon announces 
five new renewable 
energy projects in 
China, Australia, 
Ohio, and Virginia, 
with a combined 
615 MW of addi-
tional renewable 
capacity and an ex-
pected generation 
of 1.2 million MWh 
of energy annually.
MAY 2020AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT47
Cloud Efficiency
Source: 451 Research, 2019. All rights 
reserved.“Our results show that AWS’s infrastructure is 3.6 times more energy efficient 
than the median of the surveyed U.S. enterprise data centers. More than two-
thirds of this advantage is attributable to the combination of a more energy 
efficient server population and much higher server utilization. AWS data centers 
are also more energy efficient than enterprise sites due to comprehensive 
efficiency programs that touch every facet of the facility. When we factor in the 
carbon intensity of consumed electricity and renewable energy purchases, 
which reduce associated carbon emissions, AWS performs the same task with 
an 88% lower carbon footprint.”  amzn.to/cloud-efficiencyAMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT48AWS develops our water use strategy by evaluating climate patterns for each AWS Region, local water management 
and availability, and the opportunity to conserve drinking water sources. Taking a holistic approach, we assess both the 
water and energy usage of each potential cooling solution to select the most efficient method.
Evaporative Cooling 
When possible, AWS incorporates direct evaporative technology for cooling  
our data centers, significantly reducing energy and water consumption. During 
cooler months, outside air is directly supplied to the data center without using any 
water. During the hottest months of the year, outside air is cooled through an 
evaporative process using water before being pushed into the server rooms, and 
we have optimized our cooling systems to use minimal water. AWS is constantly 
innovating the design of our cooling systems to further reduce water use, and 
we utilize real-time sensor data to adapt to changing weather conditions.
Recycled Water 
AWS is expanding its use of non-potable water for cooling purposes to help conserve 
local drinking water sources. In Northern Virginia, AWS was the first data center 
operator to be approved to use recycled water with direct evaporative cooling 
technology. We partnered with Loudoun Water to demonstrate the benefits of 
recycled water for industrial cooling applications, and shared our operational best 
practices for utilizing recycled water in our data centers. In the AWS U.S. West 
(Oregon) Region, we have partnered with a local utility to use non-potable water 
for multiple data centers, and we are retrofitting AWS data centers in Northern 
California to use recycled water.
The process for utilizing recycled water begins when wastewater from residential 
and industrial customers is treated at a local facility and redistributed through its 
own piping infrastructure. Recycled water has to meet stringent health standards 
and safe surface discharge standards.
AWS is working with local utilities to expand distribution infrastructure and drive faster 
implementation and adoption of recycled water for data center cooling applications,  
in order to reduce our usage of potable water.Reducing Water in AWS Data Centers
AWS has always focused on efficiency and continuous innovation in our data centers to 
improve operational excellence and reduce our impact on the environment. In addition 
to our efforts on energy efficiency and our goal to achieve 100% renewable energy for 
our global infrastructure, AWS has multiple initiatives to improve our water use efficien-
cy and reduce the use of potable (drinking) water for cooling data centers. AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT49On-Site Water Treatment 
AWS is implementing on-site modular water treatment systems in multiple regions. As water is cycled through 
evaporative cooling units, minerals build up as water evaporates, eventually reaching a level of concentration that 
requires replacement with fresh water. On-site water treatment allows us to remove scale-forming minerals and reuse 
water for more cycles. Increasing our “cycles of concentration” allows us to continue to reduce water intake for cooling 
our data centers.
Water Efficiency Metrics 
In the infrastructure regions where we use water for cooling, AWS has developed water efficiency metrics to determine 
and monitor optimal water use for each AWS Region, and we employ a data-driven approach to select the most 
effective water reduction technologies. Water metrics from each of our Regions help AWS evaluate technologies and 
understand the long-term impacts on our water usage, in order to increase efficiency as our infrastructure grows and we 
expand to new regions.
We are partnering with utilities to connect directly to utility water meters, and we are also installing our own meters 
to track real-time water usage to provide consistent data for our operations and sustainability teams. By analyzing this 
data, AWS can identify opportunities to reduce water usage and rapidly make operational changes, rather than waiting 
for bills or usage reports.
AWS will continue to implement these strategies and test new technologies in order to reduce our water consumption 
and conserve potable water sources. Saving water is good for the environment and also benefits our customers as we 
increase our operational efficiency.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT50Amazon Sustainability  
Data Initiative
The Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (ASDI) seeks to accelerate sustainability 
research and innovation by minimizing the cost and time required to acquire and  
analyze large sustainability datasets. 
ASDI currently works with scientific organizations like NOAA, NASA, the UK Met Office and Government of 
Queensland to identify, host, and deploy key datasets on the AWS Cloud, including weather observations, weather 
forecasts, climate projection data, satellite imagery, hydrological data, air quality data, and ocean forecast data. These 
datasets are publicly available to anyone. In addition, ASDI provides cloud grants to those interested in exploring the 
use of AWS’ technology and scalable infrastructure to solve big, long-term sustainability challenges with this data. 
The dual-pronged approach allows sustainability researchers to analyze massive amounts of data in mere minutes, 
regardless of where they are in the world or how much local storage space or computing capacity they can access.
Innovating for Sustainability in the Cloud 
From university researchers to local governments, federal agencies to private 
startups, many organizations are leveraging ASDI to better understand the long-term 
opportunities to address big challenges like climate change. Below are some examples 
of how AWS customers are innovating and problem solving for sustainability. 
 • Satellite imagery for five countries in Africa has been compiled in the African  
  Regional Data Cube (managed by the UN Global Partnership for Sustainable  
  Development Data), a tool developed in the AWS Cloud that enables authorities  
  in countries like Ghana, Sierra Leone and Senegal to monitor deforestation, illegal   
  mining and manage coastal erosion.
 • In Virginia, flood-prone towns are using sensors to monitor water levels     
  and upload them to the AWS cloud as part of the StormSense project. Local  
  residents can ask Alexa about water levels in specific places or subscribe to an app    
  with alerts on dangerous flooding. “The only way you can scale this well is by being  
  in the cloud,” said Sridhar Katragadda, data officer for the City of Virginia Beach,  
  which is participating in the project.
 • Projects like Temperate and CalAdapt are also providing cloud-based tools to help   
  communities better understand and prepare for climate change. These projects   
  leverage large datasets staged on AWS to evaluate future climate changes and how those  
  changesmay impact people, assets, and operations.AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    ENVIRONMENT51 • The BlueDot Observatory is using open satellite Earth Observations on AWS to monitor closely at-risk inland   
  water bodies. The tool hopes to raise awareness about the vulnerability of these water resources and to provide   
  timely insights that inform water management efforts.
 • Some work that ASDI is enabling is more foundational and is expanding our knowledge and understanding of key  
  processes. For example, a group of researchers at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology and the American Bird   
  Conservancy published some exciting understandings about bird migration patterns based on NOAA’s NEXRAD   
  weather data that is freely available on AWS.
ASDI supports innovators and researchers with the data, tools, and technical expertise they need to move sustainability 
to the next level.People
53 Human Rights 
60 Employees 
73 Supply Chain 
85 Community53 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEHuman Rights
Amazon is committed to ensuring the people and 
communities that support our entire value chain 
are treated with fundamental dignity and respect, 
and we strive to ensure the products and services 
we provide are produced in a way that respects 
internationally recognized human rights.
!54
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE 
  Strong Policies  
  Our efforts are anchored in policies that apply across all aspects of our business—from our own operations, to our supply  
  chain, to the communities in which we operate. In 2019, we codified our commitment to human rights in Amazon’s Global  
  Human Rights Principles, which underline the importance we place on embedding respect for human rights throughout our  
  business. 
•  Human Rights Principles 
 From the associates in our fulfillment centers, to the drivers delivering packages to our customers, to the factory workers  
 making the products we sell—people are critical to our mission of being earth’s most customer-centric company. These  
 values have been long-held at Amazon and codifying them into a set of Human Rights Principles demonstrates our  
 support for fundamental human rights and the dignity of workers everywhere we operate around the world. 
• Supply Chain Standards 
 We set a high bar for ourselves and our suppliers. Our Supply Chain Standards detail the requirements and expectations  
 for suppliers in our supply chain and are grounded in principles of inclusivity, continuous improvement, and supply chain  
 accountability. We engage with suppliers that are committed to these same principles; suppliers commit to these   
 standards as a condition of doing business with us.
 We are committed to consistently evolving and improving our approach. We continuously review our policies and, at least every  
 other year, conduct an in-depth benchmarking of our policies against international standards and evolving industry best practices to  
 identify areas for update and improvement.
  Embedding Human Rights Into Our Business 
  In order to prevent and mitigate adverse impacts in the long run, we are committed to embedding human rights considerations  
  into decision-making across the company and into our policy and governance framework. This governance starts with the  
  Amazon Board of Directors, which appoints committees for oversight on specific issues. Among other duties, its Nominating and  
  Corporate Governance Committee oversees Amazon’s global environmental, corporate social responsibility, and corporate  
  governance policies and initiatives, and its Leadership Development and Compensation Committee oversees Amazon’s global  
  human capital management strategies and policies.
 We are also building an employee training and engagement program to raise awareness of important human rights topics across  
 the company. For example, in 2019, we launched training on human trafficking and forced labor for employees in our logistics  
 network—educating our employees on how to recognize the warning signs of this criminal behavior.  Our approach is informed by international standards: we respect and support the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the UN Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights, the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), 
and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our Approach to Human Rights
Our human rights strategy has four pillars:
1
255
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEHuman Trafficking Awareness  
Amazon does not tolerate the use of child labor, forced labor, or human trafficking in any form—including slave labor, prison labor, 
indentured servitude, or bonded labor—in our operations or value chain. We have detailed the components of this commitment 
to combating human trafficking (also referred to as “modern slavery”) in our annual Modern Slavery Statement, our Supply Chain 
Standards, and our Global Human Rights Principles. 
We’re raising awareness through employee training and partnerships. As a global retail and technology company 
employing hundreds of thousands of workers around the world, we recognize the responsibility and opportunity we have to 
raise awareness among our employees through education and training on relevant human rights and social responsibility issues. 
In 2019, we launched a human trafficking awareness program for employees around the world. In the program’s first phase, we 
trained fulfillment network managers in our UK operations. In 2020, we expanded this training to teach employees across our 
entire global fulfillment network to recognize signs of modern slavery using localized scenarios.
The training focuses on raising awareness and teaching employees how to identify indicators of modern slavery and report 
concerns to appropriate authorities in a way that puts the interests of victims first. To develop the training, we relied on input 
from organizations with expertise in modern slavery, including Verité, a recognized leader in global labor protections, and 
incorporated videos and materials from the Gangmasters and Labor Abuse Authority (GLAA), a UK public agency focused on 
investigating labor exploitation. In 2020, we expanded our English training module to cover more languages and are developing 
region-specific training for our global employees. Our global security operations team has immediate response protocols in the 
event of a suspected human trafficking related issue, regardless of where the issue arises.
In October 2019, we became an official corporate sponsor of Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT), an organization dedicated 
to combating human trafficking in the trucking industry, and began incorporating TAT training modules into trainings for our 
internal fleet of drivers to teach them how to identify and respond to potential victims of human trafficking. Our goal is to train 
100% of our internal fleet of drivers on the Truckers Against Trafficking curriculum by the end of 2020. 
Our social responsibility team regularly reviews and updates Amazon’s approach to human trafficking prevention and updates 
executive leadership on our progress throughout the year.
 
 Transparency and Stakeholder Engagement 
 We are committed to driving industry-wide best practices in human rights due diligence through increased disclosures  
 about our approach and expanding our stakeholder engagement. 
 In 2019, we published our first interactive supplier map that provides details on suppliers of Amazon-branded apparel, consumer  
 electronics, and home goods products. We expanded the map in 2020 to include additional suppliers and product categories,  
 and to include information on capacity building programs completed by individual suppliers. In 2020, we disclosed additional  
 information about our supplier assessment process and audit results, about our approach to worker engagement, and about  
 the goals we have set for ourselves on such topics as forced labor training and women’s empowerment. To continue to expand  
 our disclosures and transparency on these issues, we report against the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  
 Reporting Framework. 356
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE Engagement with external stakeholders is key to our human rights due diligence approach. We rely on experts and affected  
 rights holders to inform our approach and ensure our efforts have the intended impact. In the last year, we have built new  
 relationships with: the Better Buying Initiative to promote improved purchasing practices, Nest to improve conditions in the  
 handworker economy, the Amader Kotha Worker Helpline to provide access to grievance for workers in the Bangladesh  
 garment sector, Truckers Against Trafficking to train our drivers on how to identify victims of human trafficking, and Unseen to  
 support the UK Modern Slavery Helpline and Resource Centre. Through these partnerships we access invaluable expert input  
 to our work, helping us achieve greater impact on working conditions around the world. 
 Mechanisms to Address Risk 
 We are committed to identifying, preventing, and mitigating adverse human rights impacts, and are continuously working to  
 improve our approach. 
 In our supply chain, we assess and respond to risk by leveraging internal and external data, and guidance from external  
 stakeholders including industry experts, civil society groups, and non-governmental organizations. We use independent  
 auditors to verify compliance with our Supply Chain Standards though regular on-site inspections and confidential worker  
 interviews. We also recognize that audits alone are insufficient to drive long-term change across industries. We are exploring  
 new ways to encourage improvement in worker protections, including supplier capacity building programs, worker trainings,  
 and collaborations with other brands and civil society. 
 Within our own operations, we have teams dedicated to assessing and addressing risk to our employees. Those teams focus  
 on employee engagement—establishing open communication with our employees around the world and providing them  
 with meaningful grievance mechanisms and avenues for dialogue with leadership. We are dedicated to building a diverse  
 and inclusive workplace, where every employee feels comfortable sharing their unique perspectives and is supported in  
 growing their career. And, we are obsessed with keeping our employees safe while on the job. We are working relentlessly to  
 innovate and create new industry benchmarks for health and safety. 
 We know we have more to do—we are committed to continuously widening our lens to better understand the potential  
 human rights impacts of our business. In 2020, we are partnering with sustainability and human rights consulting firm Article  
 One Advisors to identify salient human rights risks across our business. The UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework  
 recommends this systematic review of risks as a way to prioritize a company’s work on human rights. The results will help us  
 prioritize and design human rights impact assessments—deep dives on specific products, regions, or risk areas, which we will  
 communicate to customers and stakeholders.   
     
 OUR GOALS:  
 Launch a review of Amazon’s salient human rights risks by the end of 2020. 
 Execute our first human rights impact assessment by the end of 2020.457Amazon Global Human Rights  
Principles
We are committed to ensuring the people, workers, and communities that support 
our entire value chain are treated with fundamental dignity and respect. We strive 
to ensure that the products and services we provide are produced in a way that 
respects human rights.
While it is the duty of governments to protect human rights, Amazon recognizes our responsibility to respect and 
uphold internationally recognized human rights through the ethical treatment of our workforce and those within our 
value chain. Guided by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we commit to embedding 
respect for human rights throughout our business. We continuously evaluate our operations and value chain to identify, 
assess, and address salient human rights risks; engage key stakeholders; and prioritize key areas where we have the 
greatest opportunity to have a positive impact on workers and communities. Our approach on human rights is informed 
by international standards; we respect and support the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), 
the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We are committed to investing in our employees, the workers who make our products, and the communities in which we 
operate. These principles outline our approach to human rights across all aspects of our company.
Our Workplace 
We endeavor to provide safe, inclusive, and respectful workplaces, in both our own operations and those throughout our 
value chain.
Safe and Healthy Workplaces: We strive to be the most safety-centric organization in the world. We provide a 
clean, safe, and healthy work environment. The health, wellness, and safety of our workers is our number one priority. 
Everyone has the right to a safe and healthy workplace with appropriate rules and practices for reporting and preventing 
accidents, injuries, and unsafe conditions, procedures, or behaviors.
Diversity and Inclusion: We are committed to diversity and inclusion throughout our business. We seek individuals from 
all backgrounds to join our teams, and we encourage people to bring their authentic, original, and best selves to work.
Equal Opportunity: We are committed to ensuring that all workers are treated equally, and we do not tolerate 
discrimination based on race, color, national origin, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, religion, creed, the 
presence of any physical, sensory, or mental disabilities, age, political ideology, pregnancy, 
citizenship, migrant status, veteran status, ethnicity, ancestry, caste, marital or family 
status, or other legally protected status in hiring and working practices, such as job 
applications, promotions, job assignments, training, wages, benefits, and termination. 
Our aim is to ensure employment decisions and actions are based only on business-
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE58related considerations—focused solely on an individual’s ability to perform the work, not their personal characteristics. 
As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, we do not tolerate discrimination, violent and threatening 
behavior, or harassment.
Freely Chosen Employment: We do not tolerate the use of child labor, forced labor, or human trafficking in any 
form—including slave labor, prison labor, indentured servitude, or bonded labor—in our operations or value chain.
Employee Communication: We value worker feedback. We firmly believe it is in our employees’ and the company’s 
best interests to continue our direct communications, and the best way to effect positive change is for our employees 
to continue working directly with their managers throughout the company. We respect freedom of association and our 
employees’ right to join, form, or not to join a labor union or other lawful organization of their own selection, without 
fear of reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. We provide training to employees on topics covered within the Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics, including how to submit anonymous complaints to Amazon’s third-party Ethics Hotline.  
We are committed to providing our employees with appropriate access to grievance mechanisms and remedial action.
Our Suppliers 
We promote safe, inclusive, and respectful workplaces with our third-party suppliers and service providers. We seek 
suppliers committed to these same principles. Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards set forth requirements governing labor 
standards and working conditions. We implement this commitment through dedicated programs that communicate our 
expectations to the third-parties we work with, monitor working conditions where Amazon-branded products are made 
or services provided, implement plans to address issues and make improvements where necessary, and engage with 
stakeholders working to address specific and systemic issues.
How We Do This 
Integration Throughout our Business: We expect and encourage everyone in our business to embed these principles 
into their everyday work and provide employee training to raise awareness on them. We strive to evaluate and 
understand the impact of each part of our business on human rights, to address and mitigate negative impacts,  
and to invest in the people behind the products and services we provide.
Continuous Improvement: To ensure we are continuing to hold the highest standards, we continuously review our policies 
and practices to ensure alignment with these principles and regularly provide updates on progress to senior leadership.
Collaboration: In support of these efforts, we value ongoing collaboration with a broad range of stakeholders, helping 
us remain vigilant and aware of the potential impacts—both positive and negative—of our products and services on the 
rights, interests, and well-being of our employees, customers, and communities around the world.
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE59Our Business 
Amazon seeks to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. We are passionate builders guided by four principles: 
customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and 
long-term thinking. We bring these principles to everything we do, including how we approach human rights. 
Our Operations: Amazon believes the people, workers, and communities who support our business should be 
treated with fundamental dignity and respect. As of July 2020, we employed approximately 876,800 full-time 
and part-time workers across the globe. We manage our operations, including the people working in them, in three 
segments: North America, International, and Amazon Web Services (AWS). Our online and physical stores enable 
hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties. We source, manufacture, sell, and deliver 
millions of products to consumers.
Our Products: Amazon Consumer Private Brands and Amazon Devices offer our customers products spanning diverse 
categories including apparel, food and beverage, electronics, and home goods. Amazon’s suppliers are located around 
the world and produce, manufacture, assemble, or provide goods or services that are sold and delivered to Amazon. 
Third-Party Sellers: Third parties sell products directly to customers on Amazon.com spanning broad product categories. 
These orders are either fulfilled by Amazon using our operations or shipped directly by the seller to the customer. 
Fulfillment and Logistics: More than 250,000 full-time associates support our global network of fulfillment centers. 
Amazon Fulfillment is where our employees, technology, and innovation come together every day to deliver for our 
customers. Fulfillment facilities run multiple shifts per day, and employees perform a number of roles—from leading 
teams to boxing up orders and shipping directly to our customers. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways using 
our transportation supply chain. We operate North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks and have 
co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries. We also provide digital delivery and offer products in our 
physical stores as well. 
AWS: AWS offers over 175 fully featured services from data centers globally. Ours is the largest global infrastructure 
footprint of any provider, and this footprint is constantly increasing. AWS teams around the world are building the 
future. Our people solve a wide variety of technical challenges, always focusing on the customer. Millions of customers—
including the fastest-growing startups, largest enterprises, and leading government agencies—trust AWS to power their 
technology infrastructure.   aws.amazon.com
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE60 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEEmployees
From our software engineers, to the associates in our 
fulfillment centers, to the drivers delivering packages 
to our customers—our employees are critical to 
our mission of being Earth’s most customer-centric 
company. Our ranks are full of smart, passionate 
people who are building new products and services 
every day on behalf of our customers. 
61
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEWorkplace Health and Safety
From coaching and ergonomic training to ensuring processes and 
equipment in work areas are safely operated, leaders proactively verify 
and validate that safety protocols are followed. The industry-leading 
safety technology we use every day is designed to protect and promote 
our employees’ health, and we consistently test and refine processes to 
improve working conditions in our facilities.
Above all, safety at Amazon is about our people and partners. In 
2019, we provided more than one million hours of safety training 
to employees. To make it all happen, we employ one of the largest 
health and safety organizations on the planet, with approximately 
5,000 people worldwide focused on safety. Safety, however, is the 
responsibility of each and every person working at Amazon. In 
Amazon’s dynamic, positive safety culture, every team is engaged and 
encouraged to look out for one another. 
Some of Amazon’s recent investments and technologies that support employees and make our workplaces  
safer include:
Safety Leadership Index (SLI): Amazon employees across the world are routinely surveyed through our innovative 
Connections program. Employees are asked the same series of questions each month, and those answers are used to 
measure employees’ perception of safety at each of our facilities. An example of the kinds of questions which are asked 
include, “Does your manager care about the safety of you and your team?” Amazon employees have provided thousands 
of safety ideas, concerns, and suggestions since the program started, and Amazon has implemented more than 600 
changes as a result of these responses. Last year, thanks to SLI feedback, we made personal safety equipment more 
easily available through free vending machines placed in fulfillment centers in several U.S. locations. Thanks to this 
improvement, employees can now get new equipment any time they want, which enhances safety for everyone. 
WorkingWell: Over the past two years, we’ve developed WorkingWell, a program that uses academic research and 
certified athletic trainers to educate employees and leaders about health and wellness. WorkingWell is a training and 
conditioning program designed for new hires and tenured employees, which includes a new hire ramp-up schedule 
aimed at preventing musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs). It also includes a two-week classroom course about proper body 
movements, health, and wellness, as well as routine safety training engagements.  
 Safety is a top priority throughout our fulfillment operations and on the roads 
in communities where we operate. Our vision is to synthesize leading health 
and safety expertise with Amazon’s tech capabilities and relentless innovation 
to create new industry benchmarks for the health and safety of our employees. 
Leaders in our facilities set the example for the highest safety standards. 
62
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEMind and Body Moments: Piloted in 2019, this new program employs 30-second, guided physical and mental 
exercises, offered directly at an employee’s workstation. The intent of these “moments” is to help reduce muscle fatigue 
and stress, thereby promoting wellness and mitigating injury risks. Employees at pilot sites have reported statistically 
significant reductions in discomfort. We’ve seen a nearly 13% improvement in employees who report no discomfort 
at all during their workday. We will continue to evaluate expansion of this program to other site types and countries, 
targeting the rest of North American and European facilities with expanded language offerings.
Safety Capital Investments: Our facilities are purposefully designed to incorporate innovative technologies that 
enhance safety and improve efficiency. We don’t stop there. In 2020, we are making a substantial investment in the 
safety of our people and facilities, with $296 million earmarked for safety-related programs in the U.S. alone. As 
examples of past investments, in 2019, we invested $14 million to further improve the safety of employee parking 
lots at our facilities; $9 million to retrofit pallet racking with state-of-the art equipment; and $1.6 million on pedestrian 
safety controls in some of our specialized distribution centers.
Powered Industrial Truck Technology: Powered Industrial Trucks (PIT) are an important part of any warehousing 
operation. Our goal of eliminating PIT incidents can only be met if we take a leadership role in innovating in this industry 
and developing technologies not currently available in the market. We are partnering with vendors and investing $66.5 
million to pilot PIT units that incorporate real time location systems (RTLS) and light detection and ranging technology 
(LiDAR). Additionally, we are augmenting telemetry controls on PITs we already own, which allows us to better monitor and 
control speeds in congested areas, implement access control, and ensure only certified operators are able to activate PITs. 
Robotic Tech Vest: Several reports of near misses at our robotic sites, involving objects inadvertently falling into the 
path of drive units, led us to invest $9.8 million into engineering controls that could significantly reduce these types 
of risk. These controls were implemented before any human injury occurred, which speaks to how seriously we take 
near misses and how we’re constantly looking to improve safety. One example of such investment is the Robotic Tech 
Vests worn by employees at Amazon Robotics facilities, which allow robotic drive units to detect employees and plan 
alternative travel paths to avoid interactions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 63
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEInvestments in Our Employees
 876,800 full-time and part-time employees globally as of July 2020.
 $15 per hour minimum wage for 100% of full-time, part-time, and temporary 
 U.S. employees
 Comprehensive benefits from day one for 100% of full-time employees.
 Up to 20 weeks paid parental leave. 
 
 24-hour a day free confidential counseling services.
 Over 90% of Amazon regular full-time and part-time employees in the U.S. are  
 eligible for healthcare benefits.
 More than 30,000 veterans and military spouses employed by the company, surpassing  
 our goal of 25,000 by 2021.
 Upskilling 2025 commitment: a $700 million commitment to pilot, launch, and scale training  
 programs for 100,000 Amazonians by 2025.  
 Over the last decade, no other U.S.-based company has created more jobs than Amazon. Our  
 investments have led to the creation of over 2 million direct and indirect jobs in the U.S. alone.  
 
For example, in the U.S., Amazon’s minimum wage begins at $15 an hour (in the UK at 9.50 GBP per hour and in Canada at 16 CAD  
per hour) for all full-time, part-time, temporary (including those hired by agencies), and seasonal employees. In addition to our $15 
minimum wage, we offer full-time employees industry-leading benefits starting on their first day of employment with Amazon. 
These include: comprehensive healthcare coverage with affordable premiums (paycheck contributions) that extend to eligible family 
members, including medical, prescription drug, dental, and vision coverage; a 401(k) with a 50% match up to 4% of compensation; 
a Flexible Spending Account for health and dependent care; 24-hour a day free and confidential counseling services; and paid time 
off and holiday overtime pay. In 2020, Amazon is collaborating with Crossover Health to establish convenient health centers in the 
communities where our fulfillment centers and operations facilities are located, starting in Texas, with additional centers planned for 
other states in the months ahead.We know that a strong culture and active investment in our people allows us to 
attract the diverse, innovative employees we need to understand and exceed our 
customers’ expectations today and into the future. We are committed to providing 
the support, benefits, and opportunities our employees need to be successful, 
whether they are building their careers at Amazon or building skills with us to help 
them on their career journey.64
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEWe are proud to offer generous, flexible paid leave for all parents—from our most senior executives to our hourly employees, 
including parents of all genders and adoptive parents. Birth mothers get up to 20 weeks of paid leave and non-birth parents 
have access to six weeks paid leave. We also offer Leave Share—an innovative program that allows Amazonians to share their 
parental leave with a partner whose employer does not provide paid parental leave. Additionally, Ramp Back enables employees 
to return to work on a flexible schedule for up to eight weeks after birth or adoption. Where possible we provide unlimited 
gender transition benefits, including gender affirmation. We have internal resources to help managers and team members 
support employees who are going through a gender transition. 
For employees reaching their one-year employment mark, we offer our innovative Career Choice Program, which prepays 95% of 
tuition for courses in high-demand fields. Since the program’s launch eight years ago, more than 40,000 employees in 14 countries 
have pursued degrees in five broad fields of study: IT, Healthcare, Advanced Manufacturing and Skilled Trades, Administration and 
Business Services, and Transportation. We are also now offering graduate-school-level training for our employees through Machine 
Learning University, a program designed to give current Amazon employees the chance to develop expertise in machine learning, 
critical skills in an area of rapidly growing professional opportunities within and outside of Amazon. 
Additional employee benefits include:
A free employee assistance program, which 
provides confidential 24/7 support, resources, 
and referrals for different aspects of work and 
personal life.
Financial counseling, estate planning,  
and other services in the event of a life-
threatening illness or death.
Company-paid basic life and accidental death 
and dismemberment insurance, with the option 
to enroll in additional coverage for dependents.
Fertility treatment coverage. Online resources for parents whose children 
experience developmental disabilities, as well 
as help finding child and elder care referrals and 
assistance.
Adoption assistance for qualified domestic 
and international adoption expenses including 
attorney fees, court costs, and travel.
Company-paid short-term and long-term 
disability.Adoption benefits, including reimbursement for 
parents of up to $5,000 per child associated with 
the domestic or international adoption of a child.65
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEDiversity and Inclusion
Our customers represent diversity in many forms—and we serve them better with 
a diverse and inclusive team. Our diverse perspectives help us push each other 
to think bigger, and differently, about the products and services we build for our 
customers and the day-to-day nature of our workplace. 
We want our employees and the communities we operate in to embrace that we are all human, we are all different, and we 
are all equal. Coming into work, every Amazonian should feel comfortable sharing their unique perspectives and seeking out 
the perspectives of others—this is reinforced within our 14 Leadership Principles, which remind team members to seek diverse 
perspectives, learn and be curious, and constantly earn others’ trust. 
 
Our Workforce Data
Data reflects metrics as of December 31, 2019. Among Amazon’s global employees, 42.7% identify as women and 57.3% identify as men. Among managers 
globally, 27.5% identify as women and 72.5% identify as men. In the U.S., 15.4% of Amazon employees identify as Asian, 26.5% as Black/African American, 
18.5% as Hispanic/Latinx, 1.3% as Native American, 3.6% as two or more races, and 34.7% as White. Among managers in the U.S., 20.8% identify as Asian, 
8.3% as Black/African American, 8.1% as Hispanic/Latinx, 0.6% as Native American, 3.0% as two or more races, and 59.3% as White.
66
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE 
 
Diversity 
We recognize we have room for improvement and we are not yet where we need to be. Increasing diversity in our workforce is a 
collective challenge that requires a team effort; it calls for both near- and long-term strategies:  
  Building an Inclusive Culture  
  To better understand what inclusion means for our employees, we conducted a global internal survey which led to Amazon’s   
  definition of inclusion: “Being valued, trusted, connected, and informed so that we can deliver the best results for our   
  customers.” We use this definition to guide us as we create educational initiatives, continually improve our mentorship   
  program, and deliver benefits for all of our employees. Amazon has 12 affinity groups created and led by employees—  
  comprised of over 50,000 employees in over 190 chapters globally—who passionately and positively impact our    
  company, each with an executive sponsor that ensures these groups are engaging at every level of the company. Groups   
  such as Amazon People with Disabilities, Amazon Women in Engineering, the Black Employees Network, and Glamazon (for   
  LGBTQIA+ employees and their allies) lead in community-building, mentorship, and programs to build awareness around   
  customer inclusion. We engage and consult their leaders and seek their ideas to improve our inclusion efforts internally and   
  externally. Our efforts have received external recognition: we are proud to have been recognized on the NAACP Equity,   
  Inclusion, and Empowerment Index and the Disability Equality Index. 
  Developing the Pipeline and Hiring the Best Talent   
  We recognize there is a diversity problem in tech. We are investing in solving this in our own company as well as building  
  out the next generation of technical talent for the industry and expanding the opportunities for students from    
  underrepresented backgrounds. Our efforts focus on two goals. First, contribute to changing the talent pipeline   
  long-term. Last year we announced Amazon Future Engineer, a childhood to career program that will inspire and   
  teach more than 10 million underprivileged and underrepresented students each year about computer science. And in   
  2017, we committed $50 million over five years to STEM programs for diverse communities. Second, we want to   
  immediately accelerate this change. To find the best talent now for technical and non-technical roles, we actively partner  
  with organizations and academic institutions that reach underrepresented communities like Historically Black Colleges   
  and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), and women’s colleges. In addition, we’ve created non-  
  traditional learning pathways, like the Amazon Veteran Technical Apprenticeship, which places transitioning members of   
  the military into apprenticeships at Amazon with the intent to later hire them with the technical skills needed for a full-  
  time role.
  Obsessing Over Customer Inclusion   
  Amazon’s focus on accessibility has made shopping and other daily experiences simpler for people with disabilities.  
  From voice technology to Frustration-Free Packaging, Amazon’s customer obsession for accessibility was recognized with   
  the 2019 American Foundation for the Blind Helen Keller Achievement Award.Gender Pay Gap  
A review of the compensation awarded in 2019 at Amazon, including both base and stock, shows that women earned  
99.3 cents for every dollar that men earned performing the same jobs, and minorities earned 99.1 cents for  
every dollar that white employees earned performing these same jobs. We continue to prioritize pay equity.67
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE Racial Justice and Equity 
 The inequitable and brutal treatment of Black and African Americans is unacceptable. Black lives matter and Amazon 
 stands in solidarity with our Black employees, customers, and partners. We are committed to helping build a country   
 and a world where everyone can live with dignity and free from fear. We support the George Floyd Justice in    
 Policing Act. We also support policies that protect and expand voting rights, as well as initiatives that provide better   
 health and educational outcomes for Black people. As a part of that effort, Amazon and our employees—through    
 a donation match program—were able to donate more than $27 million to organizations working to bring about social   
 justice and improve the lives of Black and African Americans. Recipients—selected with the help of Amazon’s Black   
 Employee Network (BEN)—include groups focused on combating systemic racism through the legal system as well   
 as those dedicated to expanding educational and economic opportunities for Black communities. BEN will also receive   
 a grant to fund local organizations that support education and racial equity initiatives in communities across the country   
 where our employees live and work. We plan to continue building our relationships with these organizations and    
 supporting movements for racial equity around the world. Amazon is committed to being part of the strategies,    
 solutions, and partnerships that will enable long-term, sustainable change.  
 
LGBTQIA+ Rights  
The rights of LGBTQIA+ people must be 
protected. We were early and strong supporters 
of marriage equality and will continue to 
advocate for protections and equal rights for 
transgender people. We stand together with 
the LGBTQIA+ community and are working at 
the U.S. federal and state levels on legislation, 
including supporting passage of the Equality 
Act. Amazon provides gender transition benefits 
based on the Standards of Care published 
by the World Professional Association for 
Transgender Health (WPATH). Amazon has held 
gender identity conferences since 2018 to build 
community, educate to those outside of the 
LGBTQIA+ community, and provide professional 
development opportunities for those at Amazon 
while transitioning openly in the workplace. In 2017, Amazon released our Transgender Toolkit for Trans/NB identifying 
employees at Amazon and we provide trans-inclusive medical benefits for Amazon employees. We are proud to have our efforts 
recognized, scoring 100% on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index for LGBTQIA+ rights for the last three years.  
68
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE Diversity Conferences 
 Building on our Leadership Principle of Learn and Be Curious, we organize conferences every year where employees can   
 learn and exchange their ideas and experiences, several focused specifically on diversity issues:
  AmazeCon is our largest internal conference at Amazon and has highlighted the benefits of gender diversity since   
  2015. At AmazeCon, Amazonians examine the intersection of gender with race, sexual orientation, disability status,   
  veteran status, and other dimensions of diversity. This conference has included talks from external leaders in    
  technology, entrepreneurship, entertainment, and leadership. It also includes Amazon-specific programs focused on   
  personal and team development.
   AmazeWIT is a conference we host in India bringing together women technologists, including Amazon’s technical   
   leaders and external guests. The day-long event focuses on technology deep dives (including voice technology,   
   machine learning, Fire OS, and others) and leadership discussions from senior Amazonians and peer companies.
  Conversations on Race and Ethnicity (CORE) is our internal conference that explores how race impacts our daily   
  lives. Launched in 2018, the conference leads Amazonians through content on historical context, productive    
  conversations, being an ally, and customer inclusion. At CORE, external scholars, activists, and writers dive deep on   
  topics to educate Amazonians from all backgrounds on the experiences people of color have in the workplace,   
  and how to create supportive and inclusive teams.
  Global Accessibility Awareness Month has been recognized each May at Amazon since 2015. Around the world,   
  the month is full of events, technical talks, experiential trainings, podcasts, and workshops that showcase accessibility   
  best practices. Amazonians take time throughout the month to learn about accessibility, even if it is not a part of their   
  day-to-day work. In 2018, participants attended events across 13 locations in six countries. In 2018, Amazon  also   
  hosted the first A11yCon, a conference focused on increasing visibility and awareness to accessibility challenges.   
  The conference also included a multi-location accessibility hackathon focused on finding solutions to some of the   
  biggest challenges facing people with disabilities in today’s technology-focused world.
  Learn more about our efforts to promote diversity and inclusion at Amazon. 69
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEEmployee Engagement
Our more than 870,000 employees globally are the foundation of our success as a 
company. Consistent, honest, and open communication with our employees allows 
individuals to raise concerns and have them directly addressed by leadership; it 
allows us to continuously improve our workplace and employee experience.  Our goal 
is to hear from and listen to everyone. Here are some of the many ways an employee can 
choose to communicate with management:
 
 
 
Open Door Philosophy 
We believe candid and constructive communication in an environment of mutual respect is essential to our collective success. 
We have an “open door” policy, which means we welcome and encourage any employee to discuss suggestions, concerns, or 
feedback with their manager, a Human Resources team member, or any member of Amazon’s leadership team.   
Voice of the Associate Boards  
Voice of the Associate boards are in Amazon fulfillment centers around the globe—physically and virtually—providing 
employees a forum for expressing their concerns, offering suggestions, and asking questions on a daily basis to leadership. 
Leadership teams reply directly to questions, promoting dialogue and efficient remediation of issues. In 2019, our 
fulfillment center managers received and responded to over 225,000 comments, questions, and issues raised on the Voice 
of the Associates boards. 
70
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEConnections  
Connections is a real-time, company-wide employee feedback mechanism designed to listen to and learn from employees at scale 
to improve the employee experience. Each day, Connections questions are delivered to every Amazon employee on a computer, 
a workstation device, or hand scanner. Employees may choose to answer or not answer any question, and individual responses 
are aggregated and shared with managers at the team level to maintain confidentiality. Connections analyzes response data and 
provides insights to managers and leaders to review and take actions as they uncover issues or see opportunities to improve.
 • Connections generates over 500,000 responses from employees daily. 
 • Connections is live in 51 countries, at over 2,500 unique sites/locations, and questions are delivered in  
  21 languages.
Executive Escalations 
Suggestions or complaints sent to a member of the senior leadership team are considered “Executive Escalations.” Any employee 
can utilize this method of providing a suggestion or raising a concern to leadership. All escalations are independently reviewed by 
Human Resources, used as a learning opportunity, and may be used to update our processes to prevent gaps in the future.  
Appeals Process  
In the U.S. and Canada, the Appeals Process is a dispute resolution mechanism for employees in our in-scope lines of business 
(such as customer service, customer fulfillment, and sort centers) to challenge certain disciplinary actions. A second level manager, 
General Manager, or a panel of peers may review the issues raised in an appeal, including management decisions, to determine if a 
policy or practice was applied properly and consistently. If not, we will remediate the issue in line with our policies and practices.
Ethics Hotline 
Employees may raise questions or report suspected violations of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics through Amazon’s 
Ethics Line in over 20 languages. Calls to the Ethics Line are answered by an independent third party and may be made 
anonymously upon request. Our Business Conduct and Ethics team records, reviews, and investigates calls for potential 
violations of the Code and tracks cases through to remediation where necessary. Allegations of violations of the Code are 
also reported up to the Audit Committee. 
Associate Insight Surveys and Pulse Surveys 
Annual surveys ask employees to anonymously express opinions about issues in the workplace, and managers respond by 
remediating issues or making improvements. 
Regular In-Person Meetings  
Through all-hands meetings with General Managers, stand-up meetings with direct supervisors, and regular roundtables 
with senior leadership, employees have daily opportunities to engage with leaders, raise issues, and make suggestions to 
continually improve our workplace. 
Freedom of Association  
We respect freedom of association and our employees’ right to join, form, or not to join a labor union or other lawful 
organization of their own selection, without fear of reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. These rights should be exercised in an 
informed and thoughtful manner. Amazon has associates represented by some form of collective bargaining in many countries. 
We value worker feedback, and are committed to providing our employees with appropriate access to grievance mechanisms 
and remedial action, regardless of collective bargaining presence. We firmly believe it is in our employees’ and the company’s 
best interests to continue our direct communications, and the best way to effect positive change is for our employees and us to 
continue working together directly.71
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLESustainability Ambassadors
Recognizing that global challenges require global participation, Sustainability Ambassadors seek opportunities to lead 
and collaborate, using their collective action to amplify and deliver on Amazon’s ambitious sustainability goals. Ambas-
sadors raise awareness of sustainability as a practice for all Amazonians by delivering environmental education through 
on-site events. They lead projects and pilot initiatives within buildings and across communities, striving to make Amazon 
the most sustainable place to work.
Examples of initiatives include: diverting products from waste into donations for people in need; developing innovations 
in recycling programs to include new products and locations; setting up local commute options like carpool programs 
and bike to work challenges; conducting energy audits with local utilities and implementing new energy efficiency 
programs; organizing community cleanup events at local beaches, parks, and wetlands; and developing services aimed 
at helping customers meet their own sustainability goals.
Ambassadors based in our fulfillment centers and operations facilities focus on sustainability projects that help sites 
deliver on their carbon reduction goals. The program provides a community platform to share best practices and 
scale sustainability across our worldwide networks. In Poland, one Ambassador team collectively redesigned the 
waste segregation process in their fulfillment center, driving waste recycling rates up by over 40%.
Ambassadors in our corporate offices have a unique opportunity to launch ideas with data-driven analysis using Amazon 
technology. For example, after auditing waste at our global headquarters in Seattle, Ambassadors developed a proposal 
to improve waste sorting using DeepLens—a deep learning enabled video camera from Amazon Web Services. A team 
of Amazon employees built a dataset and model that used DeepLens’ object detection capabilities to identify the waste 
items being discarded and use built-in audio to tell people which bin to use for a given item.
The combination of ground-level action with scalable ideas and advanced technology makes Sustainability Ambassadors 
critical partners in achieving Amazon’s larger sustainability goals.At Amazon locations around the world, more than 4,500 employees join together 
as Sustainability Ambassadors—a grassroots organization of Amazonians working 
to expand the efforts of the global teams that work directly on managing Amazon’s 
environmental and social impacts. The Sustainability Ambassadors program started in 
2017 with chapters in corporate offices and fulfillment centers in the U.S. and Europe. 
The program continues to expand, now with over 160 teams around the world. 72
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE 
 
From the beginning of the pandemic, we have worked tirelessly to support and 
protect our employees, customers, and the communities we operate in during this 
time of crisis. Our top concern is ensuring the health and safety of our employees, 
and we expect to invest approximately $4 billion on COVID-related initiatives get -
ting products to customers and keeping employees safe. 
We’ve made over 150 process updates—from enhanced cleaning and social distancing measures to new efforts like aerosol 
disinfectant spraying. We’re spending over $85 million redeploying team members, including some of our most talented software 
engineers, moving them from their typical roles onto teams where they can work on cutting-edge safety programs. We distribute 
personal protective equipment to our employees and require them to use face coverings while at work. We introduced and scaled 
temperature checks across our worldwide facilities. As of May 2020, we have:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  We’re continuing to innovate and find new ways to support the health and safety of our employees. One of the most promising 
opportunities we’ve discovered to improve workplace safety comes from artificial intelligence and machine learning. We are now using 
computer vision technologies in our buildings to help site leaders identify high traffic areas and implement additional measures to im-
prove social distancing. This program, which we call “Distant Assistant,” provides immediate feedback to our employees on whether they 
are maintaining six-feet of physical distance from one another. As people walk past the camera, a monitor displays live video with visual 
overlays. Individuals remaining six feet apart are highlighted with green circles, while those who are closer together are highlighted with 
red circles. The on-screen indicators are designed to remind and encourage employees to maintain appropriate distance from others. 
We are excited to open source the software and AI behind this innovation so that anyone can create their own Distance Assistant. Indi-
viduals and businesses large and small can download the package at no cost and get up and running with just a computer and camera.
Our colleagues are on the front lines, helping customers in communities around the world in a way very few can—delivering 
critical supplies directly to the doorsteps of people who need them, particularly the elderly and those with underlying health 
issues. Here are some of the things we are doing to support our employees:  
 • We gave our employees a special one-time Thank You bonus totaling over $500 million. All front-line employees and   
  partners who were with the company throughout the month of June 2020 will receive a bonus.
 • If one of our employees is diagnosed with COVID-19, they will receive up to two weeks of paid time off. This time off is in   
  addition to their other paid and unpaid time off options.
 • We established a $25 million relief fund for partners (e.g., delivery drivers) and seasonal employees facing financial hardship  
  or quarantine. 
Learn more about how we are responding to the COVID-19 pandemic on our Day One blog. 
 Provided 100 million+ masks to our fulfillment center and office sites.
 Added 2,298 handwashing stations.
 Added 5,765+ janitorial staffers to our typical teams.
 Provided an additional 34 million gloves.
 Added 48 million ounces of hand sanitizer.
 Purchased 31,000+ thermometers and 1,115+ thermal cameras.
 Worked on building scalable testing for coronavirus.COVID-19  
 73
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLESupply Chain
Amazon is strongly committed to conducting 
our business in a lawful and ethical manner,  
including engaging with suppliers who respect 
human rights, provide safe and inclusive  
workplaces, and promote a sustainable future.74
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEOur Approach to Responsible Sourcing 
Our standards are derived from the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the UN 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), and 
the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. To ensure our policies and programs incorporate 
these internationally recognized human rights standards, we conduct formal benchmarking with industry peers and 
multi-stakeholder organizations to continually improve our program. We regularly review our Supply Chain Standards 
against policies developed by industry associations (such as the Responsible Business Alliance and the Consumer 
Goods Forum) in consultation with external stakeholders including Nest, Business for Social Responsibility , Impactt 
Limited, and Verité.
Our Sourcing Footprint   
Hundreds of thousands of workers, employed by suppliers around the globe, make our Amazon-branded products. The 
suppliers that produce Amazon-branded apparel, consumer electronics, food and beverage, and home goods products 
are shown on our supply chain map, which is updated regularly and is available to download. We believe supply chain 
transparency is crucial to our approach to human rights due diligence and ensuring worker protections. We publish 
our supplier list to provide customers and external stakeholders visibility into where we source and to contribute to 
transparency efforts across industries. When we receive information about potential issues in our supply chain we 
investigate and take appropriate action to remediate.  
Assessment of Risk 
We routinely evaluate our supply chain to understand the highest risks to workers and prioritize our efforts. To do this, 
we engage key internal and external stakeholders, analyze our risks using international risk indices such as the World 
Bank’s Worldwide Governance Indicators, run worker surveys, and conduct assessments that include worker interviews, 
management interviews, document review, and on-site visits. We regularly consult industry experts to review our 
approach to risk assessment against globally recognized international standards and industry best practices. 
Supplier Assessments  
Our Responsible Sourcing Program focuses on suppliers of Amazon-branded products, consisting of Amazon Private 
Brands and Devices and a curated selection of brands exclusively sold on Amazon. Through this program, we engage 
in robust supplier due diligence, prioritizing mechanisms that drive continuous improvement. We are committed to 
working with our suppliers to remedy issues and establish systems to prevent future issues. We expect our suppliers to 
consistently monitor and enforce our standards in their own operations and supply chain as well as make improvements 
to meet or exceed our expectations. We use independent auditors to verify supplier compliance with our standards 
though regular on-site inspections and confidential worker interviews. About Our Supply Chain 
Our mission is for our products to be made in a way that respects human 
rights and the environment. Our global teams work closely with suppliers to 
communicate our standards, and help suppliers build their capacity to provide 
working environments that are safe and respectful of human rights.75
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEIn 2019, we conducted a total of 4,082 assessments to help us determine which suppliers 
to work with and, for those we do engage, to help us continually understand and improve 
those suppliers’ practices. We utilize three types of assessments:
Pre-Production Assessments 
Suppliers must submit an Amazon-approved assessment of their facilities before beginning production of Amazon-
branded products. 
 •  44% of assessments conducted in 2019 were Pre-Production Assessments.
Ongoing Assessments 
Suppliers must submit Amazon-approved assessments on an ongoing basis while producing Amazon products. 
 •  35% of assessments conducted in 2019 were Ongoing Assessments of active suppliers. 
Verification Assessments 
Where issues are identified, suppliers must develop a corrective action plan detailing actions to address identified issues, 
a long-term plan to prevent reoccurrence, and where necessary, undergo a follow-up assessment to ensure issues are 
properly remediated. 
 •  21% of assessments conducted in 2019 were Verification Assessments to verify remediation.
Supply Chain Standards and Supplier Manual  
Our mission is for our products to be made in a way that respects human rights and the environment. Our 
global teams work closely with suppliers to communicate our standards and help suppliers build their capacity 
to provide safe and respectful working environments.
 Supply Chain Standards  
 We set a high bar for ourselves and our suppliers. Our Supply Chain Standards detail the requirements  
 and  expectations for suppliers, vendors, and service providers throughout our supply chain, and suppliers  
 must commit to these standards as a condition of doing business with us.
 Supplier Manual  
 Our Supplier Manual provides guidance and resources to suppliers of Amazon-branded products on how to  
 meet and exceed the expectations outlined in our Supply Chain Standards.Our approach is based on a commitment to workers and to continuous improvement; we put the safety and interests 
of workers first. Suppliers are required to meaningfully participate in any investigation and take immediate action in the 
event that issues are found. An acceptable corrective action plan details the root cause of the issue and the steps, both 
short- and long-term, that supplier management will take to fix it. In most situations, we will support suppliers through 
the remediation process, but where a supplier refuses to remediate, we may choose to terminate the relationship. Failure 
to meet our standards has been a factor in our decision to terminate hundreds of suppliers. 76
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE
»
»
»About Our Assessment Results:  
Suppliers are assessed across four main categories: 1) Labor, 2) Health and Safety, 3) Environment, and 4) Ethics. These 
categories are divided into subcategories, such as non-discrimination, emergency preparedness, hazardous substances, and 
transparency. Findings within each subcategory are flagged as High, Medium, or Low depending on the level of severity.  
Over the last three years, Amazon has focused on setting a high bar for new suppliers and refusing to go to production until 
suppliers remediate all High level findings identified in our assessments. Since 2017, the proportion of audits with High and 
Medium level findings on Labor and Health and Safety has decreased (Labor decreased by 15.7 percentage points and Health 
and Safety decreased by 8.8 percentage points).  
We recognize that some issues may take time to effectively remediate. For Medium level issues, we expect suppliers to show 
they are making meaningful progress toward remediation within a defined timeline. For Low level issues, we monitor suppliers 
for continuous improvement. We have dedicated teams based in key sourcing countries around the globe that work directly with 
our suppliers to identify solutions to challenging problems and promote open dialogue. We seek to create long-term relation-
ships with suppliers who align with our values and who are committed to constantly improving conditions for workers. Where 
we see trends in issues beyond individual suppliers, such as widespread health and safety deficits or industry-wide failures to 
responsibly protect migrant workers, we work to define regional or global strategies to address underlying systemic challenges.  
The most common High and Medium level finding in 2019 was the Wages and Benefits subcategory. Examples of findings 
in this subcategory are: failure to pay overtime at the appropriate overtime rate, wage payments were delayed, or required 
government deductions have not been properly paid. The second most common finding in 2019 was Emergency Preparedness 
and Response—for example, a malfunctioning fire detection system or a blocked emergency exit. We are committed to driving 
improvement in these areas.
»Supplier submits 
Amazon-approved audit 
of facility
»If issues are identified,  
Amazon will issue a request for  
a Corrective Action PlanRemediation of identified issues  
is tracked through follow-on  
verification auditsOnce in production, 
supplier is audited on an 
ongoing basis If supplier refuses to remediate  
an issue, Amazon may choose to  
terminate relationshipKey Stages of Supplier Assessment and Issue Remediation:
Our Supply Chain 
Across the Globe
1%
1%
2%14%
40%
16%15%5%2%
2%2%77
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEAddressing Wages and Benefits: Compliance with our 
standards on wages and benefits persists as a common 
issue across suppliers in our Responsible Sourcing Program, as 
evidenced by the frequency of this finding among our sup-
pliers. In 2019, we updated our Supply Chain Standards to 
include language encouraging suppliers to pay a fair wage and 
announced that worker wages is one of our key commitments 
areas as a program. In 2020 and 2021, we will dive deeper in to 
the root causes of this issue and the actions that Amazon and 
our suppliers need to take to reduce future findings on wages.  
Women’s Empowerment: Women have the power to 
be agents of change in workplaces and society. En-
suring women workers in our supply chain have the resources 
and information to make choices on their health, their safety, 
and their finances empowers them to overcome structural and 
societal disadvantages and improves outcomes for all workers. 
We have committed to investing in women’s empowerment 
and, in 2019, we began a partnership with the BSR HERproject, 
an initiative that brings together global brands, their suppliers, 
and local partners to create and implement workplace-based 
interventions on health, financial inclusion, and gender equal-
ity. Through our partnership with HERproject, we engage with 
suppliers in China, Bangladesh, Vietnam, and India. As of June 
2020, we reached over 8,700 women, building the capacity of 
workers and factory management to combat gender-based 
discrimination in the workplace. 
Emphasis on Supplier Transparency: Supplier 
transparency issues were one of our most common High 
and Medium severity findings in both 2017 and 2018. Over the last 
year, we focused on increasing our communication with suppliers 
through pre-assessment outreach and on-site engagements 
to explain our standards and expectations of suppliers. We also 
improved our supplier-facing materials—including publication of 
a Supplier Manual—detailing our process and the importance of 
transparency. Building on our leadership principle of Earns Trust, 
we seek to build solid, trusting relationships with our suppliers over 
time that lead to better sharing of information.Increased Investment in Health and Safety  
Programs: Health and Safety subcategories continue 
to be one of our most common assessment findings, partic-
ularly Emergency Preparedness and Response and Industrial 
Hygiene. In 2019, we began working with the International 
Labor Organization’s SCORE Program, a lean manufacturing 
program focused on improving productivity and working 
conditions in small- and medium-sized manufacturers. We 
enrolled suppliers in India and China to improve supplier man-
agement systems and their ability to effectively and efficiently 
meet health and safety standards. The program offers training 
and assistance in implementing improvement plans across five 
areas: workplace cooperation, health and safety, quality man-
agement, clean production, and human resources. In 2020, 
we will continue to enroll additional suppliers and develop a 
monitoring and evaluation mechanism for measuring impact 
on health and safety performance.  
Responsible Recruitment: Forced labor is a complex 
and often hidden crime. Suppliers frequently lack ba-
sic awareness of the risks inherent in worker-paid recruitment 
fees or the importance of a process for responsibly managing 
migrant worker recruitment. Our standards require suppli-
ers to reimburse in full any fees paid during the recruitment 
process. We are working to educate our suppliers on the issue, 
helping them develop the appropriate management systems, 
and ultimately minimizing the risks of forced labor. In 2020, 
we developed a Responsible Recruitment Guidebook in collab-
oration with labor rights nonprofit Verité. This guide provides 
suppliers with practical strategies to prevent forced labor risks 
and remediate worker-paid recruitment fees. In 2020, we will 
launch in-person trainings on responsible recruitment for our 
suppliers in Malaysia, Taiwan, and Japan. We are also working 
with the Responsible Labor Initiative to advance industry-wide 
approaches to ensuring responsible recruitment. Progress in 2019  
Beyond individual supplier improvements, in 2019, we invested in programs to address 
complex regional and systemic issues identified through assessment data, risk assessments, 
or by external stakeholders: 78
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEHealth and safety in Bangladesh factories persists as an issue, particularly in the garment industry. In 2019, 
we learned that products sold by third-party selling partners in the Amazon Store were potentially linked 
to factories with unsafe working conditions in Bangladesh. We took immediate action to remind selling 
partners that Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards apply to all products sold on Amazon and that under 
those standards, Amazon expects all products sold in the Amazon Store or provided to Amazon to be 
manufactured or produced in safe, healthy, and inclusive work environments.  
We issued new guidance specifically prohibiting the selling of products made in factories deemed ineligible 
under the Bangladesh Accord or Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety, which evaluates Bangladesh 
garment factories for workplace safety. We removed any products connected with such factories from our 
Amazon Store. We also notified selling partners that we will evaluate all credible allegations or reports of 
selling partner violations of our Supply Chain Standards, including but not limited to those published by 
governments, reputable investigators, journalists, or human rights defenders.
In addition to engaging third-party selling partners at issue in the allegations, we went further to 
proactively engage all suppliers manufacturing Amazon-branded products in Bangladesh. We require 
verification of the safety of building structures and electrical and fire safety issues, and we conduct 
on-site inspections with certified engineers for the highest risk issues to track closure. We enhanced our 
pre-sourcing screening process for new Bangladesh suppliers to ensure that adequate building safety 
equipment and systems are in place as a pre-condition to being approved for Amazon production. 
As a way to further support workers in the Bangladesh garment industry, we also invested in the 
Amader Kotha Helpline which provides workers throughout the region, including many of Amazon’s own 
suppliers, with a grievance mechanism to report and quickly resolve factory concerns in the ready-made 
garment sector in Bangladesh. 
73 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEEnhancing Worker Safety  
and Well-Being in the Bangladesh 
Garment IndustryCASE STUDY  79
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEThe following table includes data from our assessments in 2019, including suppliers not currently producing for Amazon.  
 High and Medium Level Findings by Subcategory in 2019 (% of all assessment findings)
 
Subcategory High/Medium Severity
Labor
Freedom of Association 0.4% 
Freely Chosen Employment 3.2% 
Humane Treatment 0.1% 
Non-Discrimination 0.4% 
Subcontractor and Next-Tier Supplier Responsibility 0.1%
Wages and Benefits 40.7%
Worker Grievance/Complaint Mechanism 0.0%
Working Hours 7.9%
Young Workers 0.5%
Ethical Behavior
Business Integrity 2.3%
Transparency 2.9%
Environment
Hazardous Substances 0.0%
Pollution Management and Prevention 0.1%
  Health and Safety
  Emergency Preparedness and Response 10.5% 
  Industrial Hygiene 9.5% 
  Machine Safeguarding 0.1% 
  Sanitation, Dormitory, and Canteen 2.3% 80
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEWe work with industry partners to tackle systemic issues and implement programs that support continuous improvement 
for our suppliers and workers. As a part of our due diligence efforts to identify, prevent, and mitigate adverse impacts, we 
leverage internal and external data and guidance from external stakeholders including industry experts, civil society groups, 
and non-governmental organizations.  
We are committed to assessing our impact and focusing our efforts in the following key commitment areas:  
Safe Workplaces:  Safe and healthy workplaces are a top priority for Amazon. We have global teams who partner 
with suppliers to increase worker awareness of safety issues, promote worker participation in their facility’s safety 
culture, and promote initiatives focused on the well-being of workers on issues that matter most to them.
Our suppliers must provide workers with a safe and healthy work environment; suppliers must, at a minimum, comply 
with applicable laws regarding working conditions. Additionally, we are committed to driving improvement in these 
key priority areas: (1) occupational safety, including adequate machine safeguarding, and ensuring suppliers continually 
identify, evaluate, and control physically demanding tasks to ensure that worker health and safety is not jeopardized; 
(2) emergency preparedness and response planning; and (3) sanitation and housing—if suppliers provide residential 
facilities for their workers, they must provide clean and safe accommodations.
We conduct on-site assessments of Amazon-branded suppliers to determine safety conditions throughout our business 
relationship. This includes assessments of protections such as adequate fire safety systems, sanitary dormitories and 
facilities, and adequate machine safeguarding.
We require that these suppliers address material safety issues prior to beginning production with Amazon. Assessment 
results are reviewed regularly by the leadership of our Amazon-branded businesses, and corrective action plans are 
implemented with suppliers as needed.
Freely Chosen Employment:  We will not tolerate the use of forced labor in our supply chain. Our Supply Chain 
Standards prohibit all forms of forced labor and human trafficking; this includes charging workers recruitment fees, 
holding passports or personal documentation, and coercion to work through threats of deportation or contacting 
immigration authorities. During assessments of Amazon-branded suppliers, we track where workers migrated from and 
how much they paid in recruitment fees. If fees have been paid, we require the supplier to reimburse workers in full. 
Forced labor is a hidden crime that is hard to combat. We recognize real progress in this space will only be achieved 
through collaborative action—by companies, governments, and civil society—to spur system-wide change. Learn more 
about our approach to forced labor in our annual Modern Slavery Statement. Amazon is currently working with these 
organizations to devise holistic approaches to combating forced labor:Supply Chain Commitments
We evaluate our supply chain to identify the industries, countries, and issues where 
we have the greatest opportunities to identify and address risks and have a positive 
impact on workers. In the event we identify an issue in our supply chain, we act fast 
and prioritize solutions from the workers’ point of view.81
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEPolaris: Amazon supports Polaris, a nonprofit that assists trafficking victims and survivors. Through the U.S. National Human 
Trafficking Hotline, Polaris has identified and responded to over 63,000 cases of human trafficking and labor exploitation 
since 2007. AWS works with Polaris to infuse cutting-edge technology into its infrastructure to accelerate the development 
of the largest known U.S. data set on trafficking. Polaris uses that data to understand and improve the way trafficking is 
identified, how victims and survivors are assisted, and how to prevent this abuse.  
Responsible Labor Initiative: The Responsible Labor Initiative is a multi-industry, multi-stakeholder initiative focused on 
ensuring that the rights of workers vulnerable to forced labor in global supply chains are consistently respected and promoted.
Tech Against Trafficking: Tech Against Trafficking (TAT) is a coalition of technology companies collaborating with global 
experts to help eradicate human trafficking using technology. Amazon sits on the TAT steering committee and has leveraged 
the expertise and resources of AWS to help scale tech solutions in the anti-trafficking field. 
Thorn: Thorn, an organization that builds technology to defend children from sexual abuse, leverages AWS architecture 
and machine learning tools in their product Spotlight. Spotlight’s sophisticated machine learning capabilities save time for 
investigators by automatically flagging ads likely to represent at-risk children. Investigators can set customized alerts and 
search Spotlight’s constantly growing database of ads to aid in their investigations. Spotlight has helped identify more than 
14,000 child sex trafficking victims. 
Unseen: Amazon has made a three-year commitment to work with UK modern slavery helpline Unseen, investing in their 
efforts to provide immediate and long-term support to potential victims of modern slavery and to ensure the helpline’s 
continued growth. The helpline provides direct response and services to potential victims of modern slavery, as well as 
trainings and programming to support those victims.  
     
 OUR GOALS:  
 100% of Amazon employees who drive trucks complete Truckers Against Trafficking training by the end of 2020. 
 Launch supplier improvement program focused on responsible recruitment by the end of 2020.
Empowering Women:  Quality jobs for women translate to positive impacts for communities, and we are actively 
working to empower women to make their own decisions on health, finances, and career development. This includes 
collaborating with globally recognized programs such as Better Work and Business for Social Responsibility’s HERproject. 
Through our partnership with HERproject, we engage suppliers in China, Bangladesh, Vietnam, and India. As of June 
2020, we had reached over 8,700 women with training on health and financial skills, building the capacity of workers 
and factory management to combat gender-based discrimination in the workplace. 
     
 OUR GOAL:   
 Launch empowerment programs to reach over 25,000 women in our supply chain by 2023.82
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEFair Wages: We are committed to working closely with suppliers, business partners, and multi-stakeholder 
associations to monitor and promote continuous improvement in working conditions, including fair and on-time 
payment of wages. We have dedicated teams across the globe that work directly with suppliers to track and report 
performance against these standards.
Our suppliers are required to pay legally required compensation (including overtime and benefits) and we encourage our 
suppliers to continuously evaluate whether workers earn enough to meet their basic needs and the needs of their family.
We require Amazon-branded suppliers in a number of regions to enroll in Better Work—a partnership between the 
International Labor Organization and the International Finance Corporation focused on improving working conditions in the 
garment industry and making the sector more competitive. By working with suppliers and training workers on their rights, 
Better Work is able to help workers improve wages over time.   
     
 OUR GOAL:  
 Launch in-depth research into fair wages within our Amazon-branded products supply chains in 2021. 
Environmental Protection:  Our aim is to ensure that the manufacturing of our products does not cause 
unnecessary environmental harm, and positively impacts people and communities. We are a member of the 
Sustainable Apparel Coalition (Coalition), an industry-wide group of leading apparel and footwear brands, retailers, 
manufacturers, non-governmental organizations, academic experts, and government organizations working to reduce 
the environmental and social impacts of apparel products around the world. We encourage our Amazon-branded 
suppliers to evaluate their practices using the Coalition’s Higg Index, a tool to help manufacturers measure the social and 
environmental performance of their facilities. We are committed to driving adoption of this assessment and helping our 
suppliers understand their environmental impact. 
     
 OUR GOAL:   
 Collect environmental performance data from 200 suppliers by the end of 2021.  
 
 83
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEAmazon is committed to supporting our suppliers, their workers, and their 
communities as they are impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and we have 
dedicated over $1 million in initial investments to support response and recovery 
efforts in our supply chain.  
 
We are continuing to monitor suppliers for compliance with our Supply Chain Standards and are making necessary modifications 
to supplier assessment procedures based on internal and external stakeholder recommendations. We are working to balance the 
need to limit the movement of people and allow suppliers time to support workers and prepare production schedules with the 
need to have our eyes and ears on the ground. 
We have urged suppliers to take the following steps to mitigate risk to workers: 
 Follow all government safety recommendations before resuming or continuing to manufacture  
 Amazon-branded products and take appropriate steps to ensure safe and clean workplaces.
 Avoid ending worker contracts where workers are sick or caring for sick family members.
 Ensure monitoring of worker hours and proper overtime notices as factories ramp up production . 
We are partnering with organizations providing critical support to suppliers and workers during this 
devastating pandemic: 
 • In Bangladesh, we’ve partnered with the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to distribute medical supplies   
  and COVID-19 related resources for front-line doctors, nurses, and medical workers operating in the largest refugee camp in  
  the world. The contribution supports the procurement of lifesaving PPE for 23 IOM-managed health facilities, serving to   
  benefit both refugee and host community populations in the region. 
 • Amazon is supporting the implementation of SCORE Training in 42 factories, which is helping factories plan their    
  production schedule, reorganize production lines, and implement guidelines for more social distance and increased safety.   
  Factories enrolled in the SCORE program receive support implementing health and safety protocols and providing workers   
  with training on health and sanitation, which has improved the working conditions of 20,000 workers, including 9,000   
  women.
 • As part of our longstanding relationship with BSR’s HERproject, we helped to launch HERessentials, a new venture that   
  will digitize HERproject’s and Empower@Work’s learning modules into a six-module Digital Worker and two-module Digital   
  Manager Toolkit curriculum for remote access. The toolkit covers topics like personal hygiene, reproductive health and   
  breastfeeding, and financial planning, and offers local resources on mental health and domestic violence services. The   
  toolkit will be available to 500,000 female workers by 2025 in Bangladesh, China, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, and Vietnam, and   
  will be translated into local languages. COVID-19  
 84
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE • Amazon partnered with Nest, a nonprofit building a hand-worker economy of artisans, to increase global   
  workforce inclusivity, improve women’s well-being, and preserve important cultural traditions around the world.   
  As part of this partnership, we have been able to distribute over 100 economic relief grants to artisan businesses   
  across the globe. We were also able to support the Nest’s PPE Purchasing initiative— a program that purchased over 
  200,000 protective masks to be delivered to front-line workers. This program distributed over $500,000 in   
  economic relief value to 57 businesses, which altogether employed 10,510 skilled artisans. 
 • We are supporting the Amader Kotha Helpline, which provides workers with a grievance mechanism to   
  report and resolve factory concerns in the ready-made garment sector. Our contribution will help support the   
  organization’s increased call volumes and the 24/7 factory grievance lines in regions impacted by COVID-19. The  
  Helpline serves as a resource for 600+ factories, 30 of which are Amazon suppliers, reaching 1.5 million workers   
  in Bangladesh, and supporting them in safely transitioning back into the workplace.
 • In India, we partnered with Swasti—a global nonprofit committed to ensuring access to quality healthcare for   
  workers and those in marginalized communities— to adapt their worker well-being program (Invest4Wellness) to   
  provide support to workers in factories impacted by COVID-19. With our support, Swasti is setting up a worker   
  helpline, developing health protocols for workers to return to work safely, establishing an emergency response   
  team, and providing critical mental health, healthcare, and social entitlement support to workers, their families, and  
  their communities. These services are available to seven factories in our supply chain, reaching 3,500 workers—  
  including 1,400 women—and their families. 
Learn more about how we are responding to the COVID-19 pandemic on our Day One blog.COVID-19  
 85 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLECommunity
We focus on building long-term and 
innovative programs that will have a lasting, 
positive impact in communities  
around the world.86
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEComputer Science and STEM Education  
As part of our community focus, we work to increase access 
to high-quality computer science education. One of our 
primary programs is Amazon Future Engineer , a childhood-
to-career initiative aimed at increasing access to computer 
science education for hundreds of thousands of children 
and young adults from underserved and underrepresented 
communities each year. Amazon Future Engineer is part of 
Amazon’s $50 million investment in STEM education. Amazon 
Future Engineer has also invested an additional $20 million 
in organizations that promote computer science and STEM 
education across the U.S. Each year, Amazon Future Engineer: 
 • Inspires hundreds of thousands of elementary school students to try computer science. 
 • Funds Intro and AP computer science courses for thousands of high schools. 
 • Awards 100 students each year with $40,000 college scholarships to study computer science and guaranteed,    
  paid internship offers at Amazon.
Right Now Needs: Disaster Relief, Hunger, and Affordable Housing/Homelessness  
Amazon is also committed to what we call “Right Now Needs,” which includes increasing access to food, shelter, and basic goods 
for children and their families, specifically when it comes to fighting hunger, homelessness, and disaster relief efforts. 
 Hunger and Affordable Housing:
  • Over $100 million commitment in partnership with community nonprofit Mary’s Place to open a first-of-its-   
   kind homeless shelter at our Seattle headquarters campus. The Mary’s Place Family Center in The Regrade has   
   the capacity to shelter more than 200 people each night, and more than 1000 family members each year.
  • $13 million to create more housing options for people experiencing homelessness in Seattle and Arlington,    
   VA. Amazon donated $8 million—$5 million to Plymouth Housing in Seattle and $3 million to the Arlington    
   Community Foundation in Arlington—as well as a $5 million total match on employee donations made    
   to 20 select nonprofits addressing housing and homelessness in our headquarter regions.  
   Amazon in the Community
At Amazon, we are committed to helping children and young adults have 
the resources and skills they need to build their best future. We build long-
term and innovative programs that will have a lasting, positive impact in 
communities around the world, with a focus on supporting underrepresented 
and underserved communities.  
 
To do this, we develop programs and partner with local organizations to fight hunger and homelessness, provide equitable 
access to high quality computer science and STEM education, and support communities impacted by natural disasters.
87
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLE  • More than $15 million in in-kind and cash donations to one of our longtime neighbors in Seattle, FareStart, a  
   nonprofit focused on helping individuals in poverty overcome barriers to getting and keeping a job through training on  
   the work and life skills necessary to succeed in the foodservice industry. Since 2017, Amazon has provided in-kind and  
   cash donations, contributed more than $2 million in revenue to FareStart’s catering business, and provided consultancy  
   services and space to help FareStart optimize its growing catering business. Additionally, Amazon employees volunteer  
   more than a thousand hours with FareStart each year. With Amazon’s support, and the support of its donor   
   community, FareStart helps more than 1,200 people locally each year. 
  • $2 million initial grant and creation of the Right Now Needs Fund, stewarded by the Alliance for Education to  
   help meet the urgent and basic needs (food, clothing, and supplies) of students in Seattle Public Schools and eliminate  
   barriers to learning. Amazon has also provided additional grants to provide extra support for summer programming  
   and COVID-19 relief .  
  • A collaboration with Share Our Strength’s No Kid Hungry campaign, provided access to more than 9 million school  
   breakfasts for over 50,000 students in 450 schools across the U.S. by the end of 2019.
 Supporting Communities Impacted by Natural Disasters:  
 Our disaster relief and response efforts leverage Amazon’s vast operational excellence, innovative technologies, and  
 worldwide logistics network to provide fast and effective support to worldwide operations fighting large-scale natural  
 disasters. Amazon has filled cargo jets and shipped truckloads of Amazon-donated items for communities ravaged  by  
 hurricanes, sent solar powered lights to people living without power after tsunamis, enabled customers to easily donate  
 products and cash on Amazon.com, and helped governments and nonprofits expedite response efforts at scale through our  
 AWS cloud services.
  • Between 2017 and 2019, Amazon and our customers donated an equivalent of more than 7.3 million   
   relief items, including more than 1 million bottles of water, 10,000 N95 respirator masks, and 5,000   
   solar lanterns.
  • Amazon and our customers donated more than $17 million in cash and products to support people   
   impacted by 37 natural disasters.
  • More than 1,400 Amazon employees supported disaster relief and response efforts and hundreds    
   participated on the ground.
  • Amazon’s disaster relief and response teams have helped more than 40 nonprofit partners deliver    
   services to victims of disasters from around the world.
  • Amazon Air cargo jets were packed with more than 500,000 donated relief items to support people   
   affected by Hurricane Maria and Hurricane Dorian.
  • We’ve supported victims of more than 37 natural disasters in over 10 countries.
 AWS Disaster Response Action Team: AWS enables disaster response organizations to access cloud services at the  
 edge, even in the harshest conditions. The AWS Disaster Response Action Team (DRT) allows customers to focus on mission- 
 critical functions, while AWS provisions critical data and applications, transports hardware to the base of operations, and  
 implements deployable infrastructure based on customer need. For example, in 2019, in the wake of Hurricane Dorian (a  
 Category 5 storm that struck the Bahamas), the DRT helped set up connectivity and communications networks at more than  
 40 medical facilities and shelters in the country. In 2019, AWS also launched AWS Project Resilience, offering up to $2,000  
 in  AWS credits to state and local governments, community organizations, and educational institutions to better prepare for  
 natural and man-made disasters. 88
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEAWS and Community Outreach
AWS is committed to making a positive difference around the world. We are 
dedicated to inspiring future builders––especially those from underrepresented 
and underserved communities. To accomplish this, we established a program 
called AWS InCommunities which builds long-term and innovative programs that 
will have a lasting impact in individual communities around the world.  
 
STEAM Events and Sponsorships 
To help create the next generation of creative thinkers and future builders, AWS sponsors a variety of STEAM (science, 
technology, engineering, the arts, and mathematics) initiatives in the communities where we have a physical presence. This 
includes working hand-in-hand with nonprofit and nongovernment organizations, helping to advance their efforts through 
sponsorships, employee volunteers, and in-kind donations. Through our programming, we help increase thousands of students’ 
access to STEAM education opportunities in fun and imaginative ways.  
Here are a few examples of our efforts in communities:
 • AWS Tech Week is a global initiative that inspires employees to participate in and lead tech-related community events,  
  including “mapathons” to identify locations for disaster relief efforts, sessions on STEAM and cloud careers in schools, and  
  other service activities.   
 • Girls’ Tech Day is a workshop emphasizing STEAM for school-age girls and young women—designed to inspire future  
  builders, showcase tech careers and women in the technology workforce, and introduce girls in underserved areas to  
  STEAM. 
 • Family Tech Days are activities for our community neighbors emphasizing science and technology in a fun environment.  
  The events are free and open to the entire community. 
 • The AWS Think Big Experience is all about encouraging innovation among students and encouraging them to Think  
  Big to solve real world problems. To bring this to life, we have built physical Think Big Spaces and content for students  
  around the globe. 89
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    PEOPLEThe ongoing COVID-19 crisis has impacted communities across the world,  
including in the cities home to our U.S. corporate headquarters in Seattle, WA  
and Arlington, VA. To support those communities during this health crisis,  
we have quickly ramped up our response efforts and unique programs.
Investing in Communities Around the Globe 
 
Putting Amazon’s Unique Assets to Work 
 • We believe Amazon has a unique role to play providing a critical service for families to get the items they need, without  
  leaving their homes. Amazon partnered with food banks across the country to donate delivery services of shelf-stable  
  groceries and pre-packaged foods to serve 6 million meals, using our robust network of Amazon Flex drivers. Amazon’s  
  food bank partners are responsible for providing, preparing and packaging all shelf-stable foods. Amazon Flex delivery  
  partners collect the pre-packaged foods from food banks, and make “no-contact” deliveries directly to the doorsteps of  
  vulnerable groups in their own communities.
 • To enable remote learning while schools are closed, we have made Amazon Future Engineer STEM curriculum available  
  to students in the U.S., UK, and France, reaching more than 9,000 students in the U.S. during the first week alone. 
 • AWS InCommunities, our AWS community engagement team, has reached out to the medical community and health  
  workers in India to help those on the front-line by providing medical supplies and hygiene kits contributing to the fight  
  against COVID-19. We have donated ventilators, masks, gloves, sanitizers, and other COVID-19 supplies to help the  
  response effort. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought particular hardship to the migrant labor community in India,  
  who depend on daily wages for essentials including food. AWS InCommunities provided over 3,600 kilograms of dry  
  ration to migrant workers housed in Mumbai.  
Learn more about how we are responding to the COVID-19 pandemic on our Day One blog.
 COVID-19  
 
We launched the $20 million AWS Diagnostic Development Initiative to accelerate COVID-19 
research.
In Europe, we committed €21 million (almost $23 million USD) to support those most affected 
by the COVID-19 pandemic.
We’re working with food banks in 25 cities across the country to deliver 6 million meals to 
underserved and vulnerable populations.
We committed to donating $5 million in Amazon devices globally to those in need.
We’re donating 8,200 laptops to Seattle Public Schools students who do not have access to a 
device at home.
Through our Amazon Future Engineer program, we’re donating 4,000 laptops to high school students 
across the U.S. and making new online computer science resources, including exam prep, free.Governance
91 Mechanisms for Prioritizing Our Work 
92 Amazon Sustainability Policy Positions 
94 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
95 Partnerships 
103 Reporting Frameworks91 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEWe monitor risks and prioritize opportunities by taking into account customer and stakeholder expectations, voluntary 
practices and regulations, industry best practices, trends in financial and sustainability reporting, and emerging topics in 
news and social media.
Some of our current highest priority sustainability issues are:
 • Response to the COVID-19 crisis and support for our customers, employees, and communities
 • Climate change, energy efficiency, renewable energy, and sustainable transportation
 • Responsible supply chain practices, including human rights and the safety and well-being  
  of workers in our supply chain
 • Waste, recycling, and the circular economy
 • Sustainable products
Amazon uses a variety of mechanisms to embed sustainability across our business. We integrate sustainability practices into 
our everyday operations through goal-setting, metrics, and quarterly business reviews. 
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of Amazon’s Board of Directors oversees Amazon’s environmental, 
social, and corporate governance policies and initiatives, including our progress on The Climate Pledge and risks related to 
our operations, supply chain, and customer engagement. The Committee also oversees and monitors Amazon’s policies and 
initiatives relating to human rights and ethical business practices.
In the area of climate change in particular, we are developing tools to identify and manage weather and climate-related risks 
across our business. The foundation of this work is the Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (ASDI), a global and authoritative 
source for open-sourced weather, climate, and sustainability data. This data, together with AWS analytical tools, enables 
cutting-edge scientific work and helps us raise the bar for our customers. 
For example, by using the NOAA weather data available in ASDI, Amazon transportation teams have been able to better 
predict how weather-related events (snowstorms, floods, heatwaves, etc.) impact customer package deliveries—and we have 
provided customers with more accurate delivery estimates as a result. The AWS Infrastructure team also leverages weather 
data from ASDI to better assess the impact of weather on AWS data centers. Our ultimate goal is to enable customers and 
suppliers to use the tools we are developing in-house to improve climate resilience.Mechanisms for  
Prioritizing Our Work
At Amazon, we take a science-based, customer-centric approach to sustainability. 
We use a structured lifecycle assessment model to measure and map climate-
related risks across our value chain. We also conduct regular materiality 
assessments to understand the most significant environmental, social, and 
governance topics across our business over the short, medium, and long term. 92 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEApril 2020  
Joined the European Alliance for a green recovery, which 
includes policymakers, businesses, and organizations 
working together to support a COVID-19 economic 
recovery that addresses the threat of climate change. 
January 2020  
At the Virginia General Assembly, Amazon testified in favor 
of legislation to expand the use of energy storage to further 
integrate renewable energy into the grid in Virginia.
December 2019  
Amazon publicly praised the European Union’s intent to reach 
climate neutrality and pledged to work togetherwith the new 
EU Commission on the Green Deal.
August 2019  
Amazon leadership spoke at the National Conference of 
State Legislatures Energy Summit and implored state 
legislators to accelerate the deployment of renewable 
energy across the U.S.
 
 June 2019  
Amazon signed a letter to the European Commission 
outlining the importance of corporate renewable energy 
procurement and encouraging that National Energy 
and Climate Plans remove barriers to renewable energy 
purchasing.
June 2019  
Amazon supported legislation introduced in the 
United States Congress that would allow clean energy 
projects access to financing by forming master limited 
partnerships.
May 2019  
Amazon wrote to the Virginia State Corporation 
Commission encouraging that more renewable energy and 
clean energy technologies be included in a long-term plan 
by Virginia’s largest electric utility.
February 2019  
Amazon spoke to the National Association of State 
Energy Officials about the importance of energy 
efficiency and renewable energy for our business 
operations, and to encourage states to help support  
the deployment of electric vehicles.Amazon Sustainability  
Policy Positions
Increasing the deployment of renewable energy resources is valuable for the planet, 
good for business, and important for our customers. As part of our sustainability 
efforts, Amazon advocates in support of public policy that advances access to and 
the expansion of clean energy. We will continue to promote policies that support 
renewable energy to power our operations. Since 2016, we have taken the following 
actions in support of promoting clean energy and addressing climate change:
01 000
1
093 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEDecember 2018 
Amazon wrote to the Georgia Public Service Commission 
advocating for a strong renewable energy offering from  
the Georgia electric utility.
November 2018 
Amazon signed on to a joint declaration calling for 
changes to European energy policy that would allow for 
easier access to renewable energy. The declaration sought 
to reduce barriers that hinder renewable energy trading 
and tracking across borders between European Union 
member countries.
November 2018  
Amazon authored a letter to the European Commission in 
support of the removal of regulatory barriers to corporate 
sourcing of renewable energy.
September 2018 
Amazon staff spoke at the Midwest Governor’s Association 
conference and highlighted our interest in access to 
renewable energy and the importance of states reducing 
barriers to renewable energy access.
December 2017 
Amazon urged the European Union Commission to 
establish a goal of 35% renewable energy by 2030. December 2017 
Amazon wrote to the California Public Utilities Commission 
in support of an electric vehicle charging program for the 
San Diego region.
October 2017 
Amazon provided support for the regulatory approval  
of a green energy program offering being created by the 
Florida electric utility that provides power to our facilities 
in the Jacksonville region.
October 2017  
Amazon authored a letter to the Ohio State Legislature in 
support of a bill that would reduce restrictions on the siting  
of wind energy projects in the state.
June 2017 
Amazon joined the We Are Still In coalition to express 
support for remaining in the Paris Climate Agreement.
February 2017 
Amazon offered support for a Virginia bill to create a new 
community solar law in the Commonwealth.
April 2016 
Amazon joined Apple, Google, and Microsoft in filing 
an amicus brief in support of the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency’s Clean Power Plan.94 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEUnited Nations Sustainable  
Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 global goals the 
United Nations General Assembly (UN) set to provide a shared blueprint for peace 
and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future. At Amazon, 
there are multiple ways our sustainability work aligns with these global goals.  
The following shows how our programs correspond to the UN SDGs:
CIRCULAR ECONOMY
 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS
PACKAGING AND PRODUCTS
THE CLOUD
PARTNERSHIPS
SUPPLY CHAINCUSTOMERS
EMPLOYEES
COMMUNITY
95 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEPartnerships
01 000
1
0Many of the cross-cutting sustainability  
issues that we prioritize at Amazon are enhanced  
through partnerships and collaborative  
initiatives with credible, knowledgeable,  
and innovative industry partners. 96 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEAdvanced Energy Buyers Group
Amazon is a founding member of the Advanced Energy Buyers Group (AEBG). 
The mission of the business-led AEBG is to engage on policies that make it 
possible for non-residential energy users to meet their own energy needs with 
advanced energy through simple, flexible, market-based solutions; and to sup-
port policies that facilitate the transition to an electricity system that is secure, 
clean, resilient, smart, and affordable.
Advanced Energy Economy
To promote education, analysis, and policy advocacy for clean energy, Amazon 
joined Advanced Energy Economy (AEE), a nonprofit association of clean energy 
businesses that is committed to promoting clean and affordable energy tech-
nologies. AEE publishes reports, brings together stakeholders, and advocates for 
advanced energy policies with state and federal policymakers on issues related 
to electric vehicles, renewable energy, energy efficiency, and the smart grid.
American Council on Renewable Energy
To support our engagement on renewable energy, Amazon joined the American Coun-
cil on Renewable Energy (ACORE), a nonprofit membership organization dedicated 
to building a secure and prosperous America with clean, renewable energy. ACORE 
convenes thought leadership forums and creates energy industry partnerships to com-
municate the economic, security, and environmental benefits of renewable energy.
Amader Kotha 
Amazon began working with the Amader Kotha Helpline in 2020. The Amader 
Kotha Helpline provides workers with a mechanism to report and resolve safety and 
other concerns in the ready-made garment sector in Bangladesh. The Helpline was 
initially established as a project of the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety fol-
lowing the Rana Plaza tragedy. In July 2018, the Helpline became an independent 
initiative available to all garment workers with the support of factories and brands.
 
Amfori
In 2019, Amazon began working with Amfori, a leading global business associa-
tion for open and sustainable trade. Amfori brings together over 2,000 retail-
ers, importers, brands, and associations from over 40 countries to drive social 
performance and improvements across global supply chains.
Better Buying
In 2019, Amazon began engaging with Better Buying, a global initiative that 
carries out independent research to promote improved purchasing practices, 
stronger supply chain partnerships, and mutually beneficial sustainability out -
comes. The initiative provides retailers, brands, and suppliers with a cloud-based 
97 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEplatform to obtain data-driven insights into purchasing-related activities. Better 
Buying enables suppliers to anonymously rate the purchasing practices of their 
buyers and works alongside these buyers toward improved practices.
Better Cotton Initiative
Amazon is a member of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) to support the transi-
tion to sourcing more sustainable cotton within Amazon-owned Private Brand 
apparel products. BCI is a global nonprofit organization and the largest cotton 
sustainability program in the world. BCI exists to make global cotton production 
better for the people who produce it, better for the environment it grows in, 
and better for the sector’s future.
Business for Social Responsibility
Amazon is a member of Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a global nonprofit 
that works with partners across business, civil society, and government sectors to 
build a just and sustainable world. Amazon participates in working groups such as 
Future of Fuels (a collaboration with a mission to drive a sustainable transition to 
low-carbon commercial road freight), Clean Cargo Working Group (an initiative to 
reduce the environmental impacts of global goods transportation), and Tech Against 
Trafficking (a coalition of technology companies collaborating with global experts to 
help eradicate human trafficking using technology).  
BSR HERproject
Amazon joined BSR’s HERproject, a collaborative initiative that strives to em-
power low-income women working in global supply chains. Bringing together 
global brands, their suppliers, and local NGOs, HERproject drives impact for 
women and business via workplace-based interventions on health, financial in-
clusion, and gender equality. Since its inception in 2007, HERproject has worked 
in more than 700 workplaces across 14 countries and has increased the well-be-
ing, confidence, and economic potential of more than 800,000 women.
 
Carbon Leadership Forum 
Amazon is committed to sponsor the Carbon Leadership Forum, an interdisciplin-
ary organization working to accelerate the transformation of the building sector to 
radically reduce the embodied carbon in building materials and construction through 
collective action. We will participate in this group to shape building industry stan-
dards for embodied carbon and advance resources for the building industry.
Center for Climate and Energy Solutions
Amazon joined the Business Environmental Leadership Council at the Center for 
Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) to work toward practical solutions to the 
world’s climate and energy challenges. C2ES is an independent, nonpartisan, 
nonprofit organization working to forge practical solutions to climate change. 
HERpr oject
98 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEThrough strong policy and action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, promote 
clean energy, and strengthen resilience to climate impacts, C2ES works with 
Fortune 500 companies to coordinate business action and business support for 
effective climate policy.
Ceres Corporate Electric Vehicle Alliance
Amazon was a launch member of Ceres Corporate Electric Vehicle Alliance, 
which brings together companies focused on the transition to electric vehicles. 
The Alliance brings together fleet operators to share best practices, engage with 
policymakers, and demonstrate the value of electric vehicles for commercial use.
City Harvest
In the UK, Amazon partners with City Harvest London to put surplus food to 
use in a sustainable way. City Harvest collects food from supermarkets, restau-
rants, manufacturers, and other food business, and distributes it to community 
programs that serve meals to vulnerable people.
Closed Loop Fund
Amazon has committed $10 million to the Closed Loop Fund to increase the 
recycling of products and packaging. Through project finance, the fund provides 
cities and companies with access to capital necessary to increase recycling rates 
in communities across America and build circular supply chains.
Corporate Eco Forum
Amazon joined the Corporate Eco Forum (CEF), an invitation-only membership 
group for large companies that demonstrate a serious commitment to sustain-
ability as a business strategy issue. CEF’s mission is to help accelerate sustain-
able business innovation by creating a neutral space for senior business leaders 
to strategize and exchange best-practice insights.  
 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation   
Amazon joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Network in 2020 as part of 
our ongoing commitment to reduce waste and share success stories across 
industries. The Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s mission is to accelerate the global 
transition to a circular economy. The Foundation works with business, govern-
ment and academia to build a framework for an economy that is restorative and 
regenerative by design.
 
Feeding America
Amazon partners with Feeding America to direct our surplus inventory to commu-
nities in need. Feeding America works alongside Amazon’s vast network to strate-
gically partner nonprofit members and Amazon facilities to maximize the impact 
Member
99 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEof these donations. Feeding America’s mission is to feed more than 37 million of 
America’s hungry through a nationwide network of 200 member food banks.
Global Optimism
In 2019, Amazon and Global Optimism co-founded The Climate Pledge, a 
commitment to reach net zero carbon by 2040. Global Optimism was founded 
by Christiana Figueres and Tom Rivet-Carnac, two of the architects of the Paris 
Agreement on climate change, to precipitate transformational, sector-wide 
change to halve global emissions between 2020 and 2030, eventually reaching 
net zero by 2050 or earlier.
 
Good 360 
Amazon partners with Good360 to donate items that cannot be sold to those most 
in need. Good360’s mission is to transform lives by providing hope, dignity, and a 
sense of renewed possibility to individuals, families, and communities impacted by 
disasters or other challenging life circumstances who otherwise would struggle to 
find that hope. Good360 has 80,000+ nonprofit members (downstream charity 
partners) to whom they redistribute goods received from 400+ corporate donors.
 
Green Chemistry and Commerce Council
Amazon is a member of the Green Chemistry and Commerce Council (GC3), a 
multi-stakeholder collaborative that drives the commercial adoption of green chemis-
try by catalyzing and guiding action across all industries, sectors, and supply chains.
In Kind Direct
Amazon works with In Kind Direct, a national charity in the UK that manages 
the donation of surplus products to charities across the country. Since partner-
ing with In Kind Direct, we have donated more than $8.7 million (£7 million) 
of products. In 2019 alone, we have donated $1.2 million (£1 million) to over 
2,000 charities and volunteer organizations across the UK.
Innatura
Amazon is a long-term partner of the German nonprofit Innatura, which brokers 
in-kind donations to charitable organizations. Through this partnership, Amazon 
has donated to more than 1,500 charities benefiting nearly 500,000 individu-
als and families in Germany with donations including toys, shoes, clothing, and 
drugstore items, among others. 
International Safe Transit Association
Amazon joined the International Safe Transit Association (ISTA), an organization 
focused on the specific concerns of transport packaging. ISTA is a nonprofit, 
member-driven association that sets the standards for optimizing the resources 
in packages that are designed to be survivable, sustainable, and successful.
100 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCELeather Working Group
Amazon joined the Leather Working Group to support the transition to more 
sustainable leather in Amazon-owned Private Brand apparel products. The 
Leather Working Group seeks to improve the leather manufacturing industry by 
creating alignment on environmental priorities, bringing visibility to best practic-
es, and providing suggested guidelines for continual improvement.
 
Nest
In 2019, Amazon began working with Nest, a nonprofit focused on the handwork -
er economy to increase global workforce inclusivity, improve women’s well-being 
beyond factories, and preserve important cultural traditions around the world. Nest 
uses radical transparency, data-driven development, and fair market access to connect 
craftspeople, brands, and consumers in a circular and human-centric value chain.
Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade 
Amazon joined the Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade (PPA) in 
2020. The PPA is a multi-sector initiative of 44 leaders in civil society, minerals supply 
chain actors, and government that supports projects in the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo and the surrounding Great Lakes Region of Central Africa that improve 
the due diligence and governance systems needed for ethical supply chains. The 
PPA has raised over $2 million in private sector contributions toward on-the-ground 
activities supporting responsible trade and the conditions enabling it, comple-
menting more than $20 million in parallel funding from USAID for infrastructure 
and traceability in Congo. With this funding, the PPA has tested tools for enhanced 
upstream due diligence and reporting, made grants to assess models for collecting 
and disseminating due diligence data, and supported civil society training and mech-
anisms to monitor and report fraud and smuggling.  
RE-Source Platform
To advocate for issues related to clean energy purchasing, Amazon is a member 
of the RE-Source Platform. RE-Source is a European alliance of stakeholders 
representing clean energy buyers and suppliers for corporate renewable energy 
sourcing. It is the first and only multi-stakeholder platform in Europe bringing 
together the interests of both buyers and sellers in order to unlock the poten-
tial of new business models, accelerate the transition to affordable renewable 
energy sources, and help combat climate change.
Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance
To support a resilient clean energy system, Amazon joined the Renewable 
Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA). REBA is an alliance of large clean energy buyers, 
energy providers, and service providers that, together with NGO partners, is 
unlocking the marketplace for all non-residential energy buyers to lead a rapid 
transition to a cleaner, prosperous, zero-carbon energy future.
101 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEResponsible Business Alliance
Amazon joined the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), a nonprofit coalition of com-
panies committed to supporting the rights and wellbeing of workers and communi-
ties worldwide affected by the global electronics supply chain. The RBA is the world’s 
largest industry coalition dedicated to electronics supply chain responsibility.
 
Responsible Labor Initiative
Amazon is a member of the Responsible Labor Initiative (RLI), a multi-industry, 
multi-stakeholder initiative run by the Responsible Business Alliance. RLI is fo-
cused on ensuring that the rights of workers vulnerable to forced labor in global 
supply chains are consistently respected and promoted.
 
Responsible Minerals Initiative
Amazon joined the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), an initiative of the Responsible 
Business Alliance, which provides companies with tools and resources to make sourcing 
decisions that improve regulatory compliance and support responsible sourcing from 
conflict-affected and high-risk areas. Founded in 2008, the RMI has grown into one 
of the most utilized and respected resources for companies from a range of industries 
addressing responsible mineral sourcing issues in their supply chains.
 
SolarPower Europe
Amazon joined SolarPower Europe (SPE) to help advance solar energy devel-
opment across Europe. SPE works to ensure solar-based energy solutions have 
access to financing and funding across Europe, positioning these solutions with 
policymakers at the European and national levels, effectively communicating 
the benefits of solar power and more.
 
Supplier Ethical Data Exchange
Amazon is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), a global nonprofit 
organization that provides manufacturers and retailers a platform to manage responsi-
ble sourcing data and monitor continuous improvement across their supply chains.
 
Sustainable Apparel Coalition
Amazon joined the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), an industry alliance on 
sustainable production for apparel, footwear, and textiles. The Coalition uses the 
Higg Index, a standardized value chain measurement suite of tools for all indus-
try participants. These tools measure environmental and social labor impacts 
across the value chain. With this data, the industry can address inefficiencies, 
improve sustainability performance, and achieve the environmental and social 
transparency consumers are demanding.
 
102 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCESustainable Packaging Coalition
Amazon joined the Sustainable Packaging Coalition (SPC), an industry working 
group dedicated to a more robust environmental vision for packaging. SPC 
uses strong member support, an informed and science-based approach, supply 
chain collaborations, and continuous outreach to build packaging systems that 
encourage economic prosperity and a sustainable flow of materials.
 
Tech Against Trafficking 
Tech Against Trafficking (TAT), an initiative within the Business for Social 
Responsibility (BSR), is a coalition of technology companies collaborating with 
global experts to help eradicate human trafficking using technology. TAT works 
with civil society, law enforcement, academia, technologists, and survivors to 
advance and scale the use of technology to prevent, disrupt, and reduce human 
trafficking and increase and expand survivors’ access to resources.
 
Textile Exchange
Amazon joined Textile Exchange to support our commitment to sustainable 
apparel. Textile Exchange is a global nonprofit that identifies and shares best 
practices on farming, materials, processing, traceability, and product end-of-life 
in order to reduce the textile industry’s impact on the world’s water, soil, and air, 
and the human population.
 
The Recycling Partnership
Amazon joined The Recycling Partnership to increase access to and improve 
curbside recycling in the United States. The Recycling Partnership supports 
communities and local governments with education, infrastructure, and mea-
surement related to curbside recycling.
Truckers Against Trafficking
To further our commitment to preventing human trafficking, Amazon became an 
official corporate sponsor of Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT), an organization 
dedicated to combating human trafficking in the trucking industry. We incorporate 
TAT training modules into trainings for our internal fleet of drivers to teach them 
how to identify and respond to potential victims of human trafficking.
 
U.S. Partnership for Renewable Energy Finance
Amazon joined the U.S. Partnership for Renewable Energy Finance (U.S. PREF), 
a program of ACORE, to support our work with state and federal policymakers 
and other stakeholders to enable more renewable energy opportunities for 
cloud providers. U.S. PREF is an educational program that provides expert input 
on how the renewable energy finance market works.
              www.TextileExchange.orgMEMBERSustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board is an independent standards board that is accountable for the due process, outcomes, and ratification of the SASB standards, 
which seek to identify financially material sustainability information. The table below lists topics classified as applicable to the E-Commerce Industry.
SASB Metric Code Disclosure
Hardware Infrastructure Energy  
and Water Management
(1) Total energy consumed,  
(2) percentage grid electricity,  
(3) percentage renewableIn 2019, Amazon reached 42% renewable energy across our business. See Renewable Energy. 
See our Carbon Footprint.
Discussion of the integration of environmental 
considerations into strategic planning for data  
center needsCG-EC-130a.3 Amazon Web Services (AWS) carefully chooses our data center locations to mitigate environmental 
risk, such as flooding, extreme weather, and seismic activity. See Sustainability in the Cloud.
Data Privacy and Advertising Standards
Description of policies and practices relating to  
behavioral advertising and user privacyInterest-based ads are sometimes referred to as personalized or targeted ads. We show interest-
based ads to display features, products, and services. Amazon offers all customers the choice to 
not receive interest-based ads and customers may go to Amazon Advertising Preferences and 
choose to stop receiving interest-based ads from Amazon. See Interest-Based Ads. See Privacy 
Notice. See Cookies Notice.CG-EC-130a.1
CG-EC-220a.2
103 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE  December 2020 
SASB Metric Code Disclosure
Data Security
Description of approach to identifying  
and addressing data security risksCG-EC-230a.1 We design our systems with customer security and privacy in mind. We work to protect the security of 
personal information during transmission by using encryption protocols and software. We maintain 
physical, electronic, and procedural safeguards in connection with the collection, storage, and 
disclosure of personal customer information. Our security procedures mean that we may occasionally 
request proof of identity before we disclose personal information to customers. Our devices offer 
security features to protect them against unauthorized access and loss of data. Users can control these 
features and configure them based on their needs. We follow the Payment Card Industry Data Security 
Standard (PCI DSS) when handling credit card data. See Privacy Notice. In addition, AWS architects our 
network, services, and data centers to protect AWS customers’ information, identities, applications, and 
devices. See AWS Cloud Security.
Employee Recruitment, Inclusion,  
and Performance
Employee engagement as a percentage Connections is a real-time, company-wide employee feedback mechanism designed to listen to and 
learn from employees at scale to improve the employee experience. Each day, Connections questions 
are delivered to every Amazon employee on a computer, a workstation device, or hand scanner. 
Employees may choose to answer or not answer any question, and individual responses are aggregated 
and shared with managers at the team level to maintain confidentiality. Connections analyzes response 
data and provides insights to managers and leaders to review and take actions as they uncover issues 
or see opportunities to improve. Connections generates over 500,000 responses from employees daily. 
Connections is live in 51 countries, at over 2,500 unique sites/locations, and questions are delivered 
in 21 languages. Amazon has 876,800 full-time and part-time employees globally as of July 2020. See 
Employee Engagement.
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic  
group representation for (1) management,  
(2) technical staff, and (3) all other employeesAs of December 31, 2019, among managers globally, 27.5% identify as women and 72.5% identify 
as men. Among managers in the U.S., 20.8% identify as Asian, 8.3% as Black/African American, 8.1% 
as Hispanic/Latinx, 3.0% as two or more races, 0.6% as Native American, and 59.3% as White. See 
Diversity and Inclusion.CG-EC-330a.1
104 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCECG-EC-330a.3 
SASB Metric Code Disclosure
Product Packaging and Distribution
Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint  
of product shipmentsSee our Carbon Footprint. 
Discussion of strategies to reduce the  
environmental impact of product deliveryShipment Zero is Amazon’s vision to make all Amazon shipments net zero carbon, with a goal 
of delivering 50% of shipments with net zero carbon by 2030 through sustainable process 
improvements, recycled materials, investments in electrification, and renewable energy initiatives.
In 2019, Amazon ordered 100,000 electric delivery vehicles from Rivian, a U.S. electric vehicle 
manufacturer. In 2020, we announced that we are adding more than 1,800 electric vehicles from 
Mercedes-Benz Vans to our delivery fleet in Europe. In addition to our investments in vehicle 
electrification, we are maximizing efficiency on current vehicles, optimizing our delivery logistics, and 
using alternative delivery methods. See Sustainable Transportation.
Since 2015, we have reduced the weight of outbound packaging by 33% and eliminated over 
900,000 tons of packaging material, the equivalent of approximately 1.6 billion shipping boxes. In 
2019, we launched a fully recyclable paper padded mailer that protects products during shipping 
while taking up less space in transit. In June 2020, Amazon India announced that it eliminated 100% 
of single-use plastic in packaging across fulfillment centers. See Reducing Packaging Waste.
We are making these significant investments to drive our carbon footprint to zero despite the fact 
that shopping online is already inherently more carbon efficient than going to the store. Amazon’s 
sustainability scientists have found that, averaged across all basket sizes, online grocery deliveries 
generate 43% lower carbon emissions per item compared to shopping in stores. Smaller basket sizes 
generate even greater carbon savings. See 2019 Letter to Shareholders.CG-EC-410a.2CG-EC-410a.1
105 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 
SASB Metric Code Disclosure
Activity Metrics
Entity-defined measure of user activity More than 150 million paid Prime members as of December 31, 2019. See Q4 2019 Earnings Release.
Number of shipments In 2019, we delivered more than 10 billion items worldwide. See 2019 Letter to Shareholders.CG-EC-000.A
106 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCECG-EC-000.C107 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCETask Force on Climate-Related  
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
At Amazon, we take a science-based, customer-centric approach to climate. We use a structured life cycle assessment model to  
measure and map environmental hotspots across our value chain. We have conducted a sustainability materiality assessment to 
identify the most significant environmental topics across our business. We categorize climate risks and opportunities by taking into 
account customer and stakeholder expectations, regulations, business risks, industry best practices, and emerging news. Amazon 
embeds a variety of mechanisms in our business operations to address sustainability issues, including climate-related risks. We 
integrate sustainability practices into our everyday operations through goal-setting, metrics, and quarterly business reviews.  
 
Governance
We have an established governance framework to help ensure that risks associated with climate change are considered at the 
most senior levels of our business.
•  Board Oversight: The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of Amazon’s Board of Directors oversees 
environmental, social, and corporate governance policies and initiatives, including our progress on The Climate Pledge, and 
risks related to our operations, supply chain, and customer engagement.
• Management Oversight: The Sustainability team works across Amazon to make operational changes that reduce or 
eliminate carbon in our business. Amazon developed a company-wide carbon accounting model that provides specific 
operational metrics to business teams on their emissions and allows them to track progress on decarbonization. 
Assessment
We conduct regular materiality assessments and have developed a comprehensive carbon system of record to identify 
environmental hotspots across the business. We hold quarterly business reviews with Amazon leadership teams to track 
progress toward meeting The Climate Pledge—a commitment to be net zero carbon across our business by 2040, 10 years 
ahead of the Paris Agreement.
We are developing data and tools to address climate risks for both our business and our customers. The foundation of this 
work is the Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (ASDI), a global and authoritative source for open-sourced weather, climate, 
and sustainability data. This data, together with AWS analytical tools, is enabling cutting-edge scientific work and helping us 
raise the bar for customers. For example, by using the NOAA weather data available in ASDI, Amazon transportation teams 
have been able to better predict how weather-related events (snowstorms, floods, heatwaves, etc.) impact customer package 
deliveries, and we have provided customers with more accurate delivery estimates as a result. The AWS Infrastructure team 
also leverages weather data from ASDI to better assess the impact of weather on AWS data centers. We carefully choose our 
data center locations to mitigate environmental risk, such as flooding, extreme weather, and seismic activity. We are developing 
a robust tool for assessing and managing weather and climate-related risks for our assets, people, and operations. Our 
ultimate goal is to enable customers and suppliers to use the tools we are developing in-house to improve climate resilience.  
 
Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
Teams across Amazon are working to make operational changes that reduce or eliminate carbon in our business. We are 
committed to minimizing our carbon emissions by optimizing our transportation network and investing in electric vehicles; 
improving product packaging to drive efficiency in the distribution of products; implementing energy efficiency measures in our 
operations; using renewable energy to run our business; and supporting global reforestation. We have also joined numerous 
industry partnerships including CERES, American Council on Renewable Energy, Advanced Energy Buyers Group, Carbon 
Leadership Forum, We Mean Business, and Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance to express support for action on climate change 
and to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy.December 2020108 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEClimate-Related Risks:
We have identified the following climate-related risks based on TCFD risk types and classifications. Physical risks are classified as either: 1) Acute (extreme weather events) or 2) 
Chronic (changing weather patterns and rising mean temperature and sea levels). Transition risks are classified as one or more of the following: 1) Policy and Legal; 2) Technology; 
3) Market; and/or 4) Reputation.  
Risk Type Description Classification
Physical Increasing risk of flood or damages due to climate-related events could increase our physical and operational risks and the 
cost to insure our buildings. Repeated damage due to flooding could result in an inability to insure existing buildings.Acute
Physical Weather-related events such as hurricanes could cause asset damage to our buildings, prevent deliveries to customers, and 
negatively impact sales. Acute
Physical Extreme and prolonged weather events such as droughts could impact water availability for data center operations. Acute
Physical Weather-related events could impact our ability to access raw materials and deliver final products. Acute
Physical A warming climate could increase thermal stress and outdoor associate exposure to criteria air pollutants.  
These stresses could negatively impact the health of our employees, close sites, and delay customer deliveries.Chronic
Physical As temperatures increase and water availability decreases, we could experience rising costs for data center cooling. Chronic
Transition Increasing regulations and evolving public preference may require a faster transition to a low-carbon economy, which could 
increase operating costs and/or reduce demands for some products and services.Policy and Legal;  
Market; Reputation109 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEClimate-Related Opportunities: 
We have identified the following climate-related opportunities based on TCFD classifications. Opportunities are classified as one or more of the following: 1) Resource Efficiency; 
2) Energy Source; 3) Products and Services; 4) Markets; and/or 5) Resilience.
Description Classification
Renewable Energy 
Amazon is on a path to powering our operations with 100% renewable energy by 2025 as part of our goal to reach net zero carbon by 2040. 
In 2019, we reached 42% renewable energy across our business. As of December 2020, Amazon has 59 utility-scale wind and solar renewable 
energy projects and 68 solar rooftops on fulfillment centers and sort centers around the globe. Together, these projects totaling over 6,500 MW 
of capacity will deliver more than 18 million MWh of renewable energy annually, enough to power 1.7 million U.S. homes.Energy Source; 
Resilience
Sustainable Transportation  
Transportation is a major component of Amazon’s business operations and a key part of our plan to meet net zero carbon by 2040. We are 
committed to optimizing and transforming our transportation network through innovations in electrification, efficiency enhancements, and 
alternative delivery methods. In 2019, Amazon ordered 100,000 electric delivery vehicles from Rivian, a U.S. electric vehicle manufacturer. This 
order, the largest order ever of electric delivery vehicles, sends a strong signal that we are in need of new solutions and technologies to help 
accelerate our path to net zero carbon by 2040. In 2020, we announced that we are adding more than 1,800 electric vehicles from Mercedes-
Benz Vans to our delivery fleet in Europe.Resource Efficiency; 
Energy Source
Sustainable Buildings  
Amazon is working to reduce the carbon emissions associated with our buildings and facilities across the globe. We are transitioning our buildings to 
be net zero carbon, powered by renewable energy, and highly energy efficient, with demonstrated reductions in embodied carbon—the emissions 
associated with a building’s construction materials. We are also working to improve the resource efficiency of our buildings beyond energy, with a 
focus on water and waste reduction strategies across our facilities. In 2020, Amazon began an in-depth study of our fulfillment centers, sortation 
centers, and delivery stations in order to transition these facilities to net zero carbon. The study examines the energy intensity of these buildings and 
identifies ways to meet zero carbon through energy efficiency enhancements, new technology pilots, and significant reductions in embodied carbon. Resource Efficiency; 
Energy Source; 
Resilience
Water Efficiency 
AWS has multiple initiatives to improve our water use efficiency and reduce the use of potable (drinking) water for cooling data centers. AWS 
develops our water use strategy by evaluating climate patterns for each AWS Region, local water management and availability, and the 
opportunity to conserve drinking water sources. In Northern Virginia, AWS was the first data center operator to be approved to use recycled 
water with direct evaporative cooling technology. Resource Efficiency110 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEClimate-Related Opportunities: 
Description Classification
Reducing Packaging Waste 
Our customers want right-sized, recyclable packaging that minimizes waste and ensures damage-free delivery. We work to reinvent and 
simplify our sustainable packaging options using a science-based approach that combines lab testing, machine learning, materials science, 
and manufacturing partnerships to scale sustainable change across the packaging supply chain. Since 2015, we have reduced the weight 
of outbound packaging by 33% and eliminated more than 900,000 tons of packaging material, the equivalent of approximately 1.6 billion 
shipping boxes.Resource Efficiency
Sustainable Products 
We are working to reduce the environmental impact of the products we manufacture and provide customers more information about the 
sustainability attributes associated with the items we sell. For Amazon-owned Private Brand products and Amazon devices, we work with 
many of the manufacturers and suppliers that produce our private-label selection to drive sustainability improvements through materials and 
ingredients, design, sourcing, and manufacturing technology.Products and Services
Recycling  
Amazon is committed to reducing our environmental footprint through recycling initiatives in our own operations and for our customers. We are 
developing new recycling infrastructure, inventing recyclable packaging materials, and investing in initiatives that support the recycling industry 
across the U.S. Amazon is launching plastic film recycling at more than 55 fulfillment centers across our network. Through this program, we 
expect to recycle more than 7,000 tons of plastic film per year, in addition to the 1,500 tons of plastic already being recycled annually in Europe.Resource Efficiency
The Climate Pledge Fund 
The Climate Pledge Fund, started with $2 billion in funding from Amazon, will support the development of sustainable technologies and 
services that will enable Amazon and other companies to meet The Climate Pledge—a commitment to be net zero carbon by 2040. The Climate 
Pledge Fund will invest in companies in multiple industries, including transportation and logistics, energy generation, storage and utilization, 
manufacturing and materials, and food and agriculture. Resource Efficiency; 
Energy Source; 
Products and Services111 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCEClimate-Related Opportunities: 
Description Classification
Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative  
The Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative (ASDI) seeks to accelerate sustainability research and innovation by minimizing the cost and time 
required to acquire and analyze large sustainability datasets. ASDI currently works with scientific organizations like NOAA, NASA, the UK Met 
Office, and The Queensland Government to identify, host, and deploy key datasets on the AWS Cloud, including weather observations, weather 
forecasts, climate projection data, satellite imagery, hydrological data, air quality data, and ocean forecast data. In 2020, Amazon became a 
founding member of the LF Climate Finance Foundation, a new initiative with the goal of empowering investors, banks, insurers, companies, 
governments, NGOs, and academia with AI-enhanced open source analytics and open data to address climate risk and opportunity. Through  
this collaboration, we are leveraging the AWS Cloud to make climate-relevant data available to the public.Products and Services
Metrics and Targets
Amazon’s carbon footprint, including Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, is available here.
Our team of researchers and scientists has combined cutting-edge life cycle assessment (LCA) science and AWS technology to develop a robust software solution that processes 
billions of operational and financial records from Amazon’s operations across the world to calculate our carbon footprint. The software estimates carbon emissions for all activities 
within our system boundary using a dollar-based environmental assessment model, then enhances the accuracy of carbon-intensive activities with detailed, process-based LCA 
models. We have a comprehensive understanding of the carbon emissions across our business and have done extensive analysis to develop science-based targets, strategies, and 
metrics to reduce them.
Under The Climate Pledge, Amazon is on a path to:
• Reach net zero carbon by 2040;
• Deliver 50% of shipments with net zero carbon by 2030;
• Power our operations with 100% renewable energy by 2025.
Teams across Amazon are taking a broad, science-based approach to measuring, reducing, and eliminating carbon emissions in our operations. As part of our commitment to 
The Climate Pledge, we are proud to join the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), reaffirming our commitment to reduce carbon emissions in line with our ongoing science-
based approach to tackle climate change. SBTi is a collaboration between CDP, World Resources Institute (WRI), the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), and the United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC); it is one of the We Mean Business Coalition commitments.112 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Policy  
Committment• 2020 Proxy Statement
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (IV. Discrimination and Harassment, V. Health and  
Safety, IX. Questions/Reporting Violations) 
• Global Human Rights Principles 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Governance, Assessing Our Risk, 
Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Our Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the 
Context of COVID-19)
• Our Positions 
• Supplier Manual 
• Supply Chain Standards
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Strong Policies, Embedding Human 
Rights Throughout Our Company, Transparency and Stakeholder Engagement, Mechanisms to 
Address Risk; Employees: Diversity and Inclusion, Employee Engagement; Supply Chain: About 
Our Supply Chain, Our Approach to Responsible Sourcing, Our Sourcing Footprint, Supplier 
Assessments, Assessment Results, Progress in 2019, Supply Chain Commitments, COVID-19)
Policy  
Committment• Global Human Rights Principles
• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Governance)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Strong Policies, Embedding Human 
Rights Throughout Our Company) A1 What does the company say   
 publicly about its commitment to  
 respect human rights?UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) Reporting Framework
The UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework provides comprehensive guidance for companies to report on human rights issues in line with their responsibility to respect 
human rights. This is an index of Amazon’s public content related to each subsection of the UNGP Reporting Framework. It represents information as of September 1, 2020.
Part A: Governance of Respect for Human Rights
A1.1  How has the public commitment  
 been developed?December 2020 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Policy  
Committment• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Global Human Rights Principles 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Assessing Our Risk, Responsible Sourcing, Modern Slavery  
in the Context of COVID-19) 
• Supplier Manual (p. 1) 
• Supply Chain Standards (p. 1, 5) 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Strong Policies, Embedding Human Rights Throughout 
Our Company, Transparency and Stakeholder Engagement, Mechanisms to Address Risk; Employees: Diversity and 
Inclusion, Employee Engagement; Supply Chain: About Our Supply Chain, Our Approach to Responsible Sourcing, 
Our Sourcing Footprint, Supplier Assessments, Assessment Results, Progress in 2019, Supply Chain Commitments, 
COVID-19) 
Policy  
Committment• 2020 Proxy Statement
• Global Human Rights Principles 
• Modern Slavery Statement 
• Supplier Manual
• Supply Chain Standards
• Sustainability Report, People section A1.3 How is the public  
 commitment 
 disseminated?A1.2 Whose human rights  
 does the public  
 commitment address?
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 113 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Embedding 
Respect• 2020 Proxy Statement
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters (Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee)
• Modern Slavery Statement 
• Supplier Manual (p. 1-5, 11-12) 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Embedding Human Rights Throughout 
Our Company, Mechanisms to Address Risk; Supply Chain: Our Approach to Responsible 
Sourcing, Public Goals) 
Embedding 
Respect• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters (Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Governance) 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Embedding Human Rights Throughout 
Our Company, Mechanisms to Address Risk; Supply Chain: Our Approach to Responsible 
Sourcing)
Embedding 
Respect• 2020 Proxy Statement 
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters (Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Governance)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Embedding Human Rights Throughout 
Our Company)A2 How does the company demonstrate   
 the importance it attaches to the   
 implementation of its human rights   
 commitment?
A2.1 How is day-to-day responsibility for   
 human rights performance organized   
 within the company, and why?
A2.2 What kinds of human rights issues are   
 discussed by senior management and by  
 the Board and why?
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 114 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Embedding 
Respect• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
• Global Human Rights Principles (Employee Communication, Our Suppliers, How We Do This) 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Governance, Our Commitments and 
Progress) 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Embedding Human Rights Throughout 
Our Company; Employees: Diversity and Inclusion, Employee Engagement, Sustainability 
Ambassadors)
Embedding 
Respect• Modern Slavery Statement (Our Policies, Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Engagement 
with Strategic Stakeholders)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Strong Policies, Transparency and 
Stakeholder Engagement, Mechanisms to Address Risk; Supply Chain: About Our Supply Chain, 
Supplier Assessments, Assessment Results, Progress in 2019, Supply Chain Commitments, 
COVID-19)
• Seller Central Policies 
• Supplier Manual (p. 1-5, 11-12)
• Supply Chain Standards
Embedding 
Respect• Modern Slavery Statement (Assessing Our Risk, Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress,  
Our Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Mechanisms to Address Risk; 
Employees: Diversity and Inclusion, Workplace Health and Safety, COVID-19; Supply Chain: 
Supplier Assessments, Progress in 2019, COVID-19)
AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 115A2.4 How does the company make clear in its  
 business relationships the importance it  
 places on respect for human rights?
A2.5 What lessons has the company learned  
 during the reporting period about  
 achieving respect for human rights,   
 and what has changed as a result?A2.3  How are employees and contract workers  
 made aware of the ways in which respect  
 for human rights should inform their   
 decisions and actions?116 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Statement of  
Salient Issues• Amazon France Logistique 2019 Duty of Vigilance Plan (Assessment of Priority Areas)
• Global Human Rights Principles (Our Workplace)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Assessing Our Risk) 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Mechanisms to Address Risk; Supply 
Chain: Supply Chain Commitments)
Explanation of  
Salient Issues• Amazon France Logistique 2019 Duty of Vigilance Plan (Assessment of Priority Areas)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Assessing Our Risk) 
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Strong Policies, Transparency and 
Stakeholder Engagement, Mechanisms to Address Risk; Supply Chain: Our Approach to 
Responsible Sourcing, Assessment of Risk, Supply Chain Commitments)
Geographical 
Focus• Modern Slavery Statement (Assessing Our Risk, Our Commitments and Progress) 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Supply Chain: About Our Supply Chain, Our Approach 
to Responsible Sourcing, Our Sourcing Footprint, Assessment Results, Progress in 2019, Supply 
Chain Commitments, Supply Chain Map)
Additional  
Severe Impacts• Amazon France Logistique Duty of Vigilance Plan (Addressing Health Impacts of Novel 
Coronavirus (COVID-19))
• Day One COVID-19 Blog: Daily updates on how we’re responding to the crisis 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Our Positions 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Employees: Investments in Our Employees, COVID-19; 
Supply Chain: Progress in 2019, Case Study, COVID-19)B1 Statement of salient human rights   
 issues associated with the company’s 
 activities and business relationships   
 during the reporting period.Part B: Defining the Focus of Reporting
B2 Describe how the salient human rights   
 issues were determined, including   
 any input from stakeholders.
B3 If reporting on the salient human rights   
 issues focuses on particular geographies,  
 explain how that choice was made.
B4 Identify any severe impacts on human   
 rights that occurred or were still being   
 addressed during the reporting period,   
 but which fall outside the salient human   
 rights issues, and explain how they have   
 been addressed.117 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Specific  
Policies• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Global Human Rights Principles
• Our Positions (The federal minimum wage in the U.S. is too low and should be raised; 
Diversity and inclusion are good for business—and more fundamentally—simply right; The 
inequitable treatment of Black people is unacceptable; The rights of LGBTQ+ people must be 
protected)
• Supplier Manual (p. 4-5)
• Supply Chain Standards (p. 1-4)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Strong Policies, Embedding Human 
Rights Throughout Our Company, Transparency and Stakeholder Engagement, Mechanisms 
to Address Risk; Supply Chain: Our Approach to Responsible Sourcing, Our Sourcing Footprint, 
Assessment of Risk, Progress in 2019, Supply Chain Commitments)
Specific  
Policies• Modern Slavery Statement (Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Our Progress, Our 
Commitments and Progress)
• Supplier Manual (in 11 languages)
• Supply Chain Standards (in 12 languages)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Strong Policies, Embedding Human 
Rights Throughout Our Company, Mechanisms to Address Risk; Employees: Diversity and 
Inclusion, Workplace Health and Safety, Employee Engagement; Supply Chain: About Our 
Supply Chain, Supplier Assessments, Assessment Results, Supply C hain Commitments)C1 Does the company have any specific   
 policies that address its salient human   
 rights issues, and if so, what are they?
C1.1 How does the company make clear the  
 relevance and significance of such   
 policies to those who need to    
 implement them?Part C: Management of Salient Human Rights Issues118 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Stakeholder 
Engagement• Day One COVID-19 Blog: Daily updates on how we’re responding to the crisis
• Global Human Rights Principles (Our Suppliers, Collaboration)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Assessing Our Risk, Responsible 
Sourcing, Our Progress, Engagement with Strategic Stakeholders, Our Commitments and 
Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Strong Policies, Embedding Human 
Rights Throughout Our Company, Transparency and Stakeholder Engagement, Mechanisms 
to Address Risk; Supply Chain: Our Approach to Responsible Sourcing, Our Sourcing Footprint, 
Assessment of Risk, Progress in 2019, Supply Chain Commitments, COVID-19)
Stakeholder  
Engagement• Modern Slavery Statement (Introduction, Our Policies, Assessing Our Risk, Responsible 
Sourcing, Our Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19) 
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Strong Policies, Embedding Human 
Rights Throughout Our Company, Transparency and Stakeholder Engagement, Mechanisms 
to Address Risk; Supply Chain: Our Approach to Responsible Sourcing, Our Sourcing Footprint, 
Assessment of Risk, Progress in 2019, Supply Chain Commitments, COVID-19)
Stakeholder  
Engagement• Modern Slavery Statement (Our Policies, Our Progress, Engagement with Strategic 
Stakeholders, Our Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People section (Supply Chain: Supply Chain Commitments, COVID-19)C2 What is the company’s approach to   
 engagement with stakeholders in   
 relation to each salient human rights   
 issue?
C2.1 How does the company identify which   
 stakeholders to engage with in relation  
 to each salient issue, and when and   
 how to do so?
C2.2 During the reporting period, which   
 stakeholders has the company engaged  
 with regarding each salient issue,   
 and why?119 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Stakeholder  
Engagement• Modern Slavery Statement (Our Policies, Assessing Our Risk, Our Progress, Engagement with 
Strategic Stakeholders, Our Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of 
COVID-19)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Embedding Human Rights Throughout 
Our Company, Transparency and Stakeholder Engagement; Supply Chain: Progress in 2019, 
Supply Chain Commitments, COVID-19) 
Assessing 
Impacts• Modern Slavery Statement (Assessing Our Risk, Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Our 
Commitments and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Mechanisms to Address Risk; Employees: 
Diversity and Inclusion, COVID-19; Supply Chain: About Our Supply Chain, Our Approach to 
Responsible Sourcing, Our Sourcing Footprint, Assessment of Risk, Supplier Assessments, Assessment 
Results, Progress in 2019, Supply Chain Commitments, COVID-19)
Assessing 
Impacts• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Case Study )
• Sustainability Report, People section (Employees: Diversity and Inclusion, Employee 
Engagement; Supply Chain: Assessment Results, Progress in 2019, Case Study)
Assessing 
Impacts• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing) 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Employees: Diversity and Inclusion, COVID-19; Supply 
Chain: Supplier Assessments, Progress in 2019, Case Study, COVID-19)C2.3 During the reporting period, how   
 have the views of stakeholders   
 influenced the company’s understanding  
 of each salient issue and/or its approach  
 to addressing it?
C3 How does the company identify any   
 changes in the nature of each salient   
 human rights issue over time?
C3.1 During the reporting period, were   
 there any notable trends or patterns   
 in impacts related to a salient issue,  
 and if so, what were they?
C3.2 During the reporting period, did any   
 severe impacts occur that were related  
 to a salient issue and, if so, what were   
 they?120 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Integrating  
Findings  
and Taking  
Action• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing) 
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters (Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee)
• Global Human Rights Principles 
• Supplier Manual (p. 2-8, 11)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Embedding Human Rights Throughout 
Our Company, Mechanisms to Address Risk; Employees: Diversity and Inclusion, Employee 
Engagement; Supply Chain: Our Approach to Responsible Sourcing, Assessment of Risk, 
Progress in 2019, Case Study, Supply Chain Commitments)
Integrating  
Findings  
and Taking  
Action• Amazon France Logistique Duty of Vigilance Plan (Governance)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Governance) 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Embedding Human Rights Throughout 
Our Company)
Integrating  
Findings  
and Taking  
Action• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing) 
• Corporate Governance Documents and Charters (Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee)
• Global Human Rights Principles 
• Supplier Manual (p. 2, 6, 8, 11)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Supply Chain: Our Approach to Responsible Sourcing, 
Supplier Assessments)C4 How does the company integrate its   
 findings about each salient human   
 rights issue into its decision-making   
 process and actions?
C4.1 How are those parts of the company   
 whose decisions and actions can affect  
 the management of salient issues,   
  involved in finding and implementing   
 solutions?
C4.2 When tensions arise between the   
 prevention or mitigation of impacts   
 related to a salient issue and other   
 business objectives, how are these   
 tensions addressed?   121 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Integrating  
Findings  
and Taking  
Action• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Our Commitments 
and Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19, Engagement with Strategic 
Stakeholders) 
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Embedding Human Rights Throughout 
Our Company, Transparency and Stakeholder Engagement, Mechanisms to Address Risk; 
Employees: Investments in Our Employees, Diversity and Inclusion, Workplace Health and 
Safety, Employee Engagement; Supply Chain: Our Sourcing Footprint, Supplier Assessments, 
Assessment Results, Progress in 2019, Case Study, Supply Chain Commitments, COVID-19) 
Tracking  
Performance• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Our Commitments and 
Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Supply Chain: Supplier Assessments, Assessment 
Results, Progress in 2019, Supply Chain Commitments) 
Tracking  
Performance• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Our Commitments and 
Progress, Modern Slavery in the Context of COVID-19) 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Supply Chain: Supplier Assessments, Assessment 
Results, Progress in 2019, Supply Chain Commitments)C4.3 During the reporting period, what   
 actions has the company taken to   
 prevent or mitigate potential impacts   
 related to each salient issue?
C5 How does the company know if its   
 efforts to address each salient human   
 rights issue are effective in practice? 
C5.1 What specific examples from the   
 reporting period illustrate if each salient  
 issue is being managed effectively?122 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Remediation • Amazon France Logistique Duty of Vigilance Plan (Policies, Assessment of Priority Areas: 
Hours and Overtime, Workplace Discrimination, Trade Union Rights, Occupational Injury; 
Addressing Health Impacts of Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)) 
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (IX. Questions; Reporting Violations)
• Global Human Rights Principles (Employee Communication) 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Case Study, Engagement 
with Strategic Stakeholders) 
• Partnerships
• Supply Chain Standards (p. 1, 5-6) 
• Sustainability Report, People section (Employees: Employee Engagement; Supply Chain: 
Case Study, Supply Chain Commitments) 
Remediation • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (IX. Questions; Reporting Violations)
• Global Human Rights Principles (Employee Communication) 
• Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing, Our Progress, Case Study, Engagement 
with Strategic Stakeholders)
• Supply Chain Standards (p. 1, 5-6)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Employees: Employee Engagement; Supply Chain: 
Case Study, Supply Chain Commitments)
Remediation • Sustainability Report, People section (Employees: Employee Engagement)C6 How does the company enable effective  
 remedy if people are harmed by its   
 actions or decisions in relation to the   
 salient human rights issues?
C6.1 Through what means can the company  
 receive complaints or concerns related  
 to each salient issue? 
C6.2 How does the company know if   
 people feel able and empowered to   
 raise complaints or concerns?123 AMAZON SUSTAINABILITY    GOVERNANCE 
Section Indicator/Question    Links
Remediation • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (IX. Questions; Reporting Violations)
• Modern Slavery Statement (Engagement with Strategic Stakeholders)
• Partnerships
• Sustainability Report, People section (Human Rights: Transparency and Stakeholder 
Engagement; Employees: Health and Safety, Employee Engagement; Supply Chain: Supplier 
Assessments, Case Study)
Remediation • Modern Slavery Statement (Responsible Sourcing)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Employees: Employee Engagement; Supply Chain: 
Supplier Assessments, Assessment Results)
Remediation • Modern Slavery Statement (Our Progress, Case Study, COVID-19)
• Sustainability Report, People section (Supply Chain: Case Study, Progress in 2019, Supply 
Chain Commitments, COVID-19)C6.3 How does the company process   
 complaints and assess the effectiveness  
 of outcomes? 
C6.4 During the reporting period, what were the  
 trends and patterns in complaints or concerns  
 and their outcomes regarding each salient issue,  
 and what lessons has the company learned?
C6.5 During the reporting period, did the   
 company provide or enable remedy for  
 any actual impacts related to a salient   
 issue and, if so, what are typical or   
 significant examples?