PUTTING PURPOSE INTO ACTION  INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020  MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT 3 42REPORT  CONTENTS ADDING VALUE TO SOCIETY   GLOBAL HEAL THCARE ACCESS    PHILANTHROPY    THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF OUR BUSINESS  27COMPANY  OVERVIEW    A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO    THE MEDTRONIC MISSION    OUR BUSINESS    FY2O SNAPSHOT     A MIS SION AS A ROADMAP: OUR RESPONSE   TO COVID-19    SUST AINABILITY STRA TEGY AND REPORTING  SUPPORTING  A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE   INCLUSION, DIVERSITY , AND EQUITY    DEVELOPMENT AND ENGAGEMENT    HEAL TH AND WELL -BEING     COMPENSA TION, BENEFITS, AND RECOGNITION  47WORKINGRESPONSIBL Y   PRODUCT QUALITY    CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE    ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT    ETHICS IN SALES AND MARKETING    DA T A PRIVACY AND SECURITY    SUPPL Y CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY  63PROMOTING ENVIRONMENT AL STEWARDSHIP   CLIMA TE RISK AND RESILIENCE    REDUCING OUR OPERA TIONAL FOOTPRINT    PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP     ABOUT THIS REP ORT  ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX    CONTENTS    GRI    SASB    TCFD    EMPLOYEE DA T A SUMMARY  99MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT It’s never been clearer: our future depends on companies  that not only innovate boldly, but ones that act with integrity.
For much of our fiscal year 2020 (May 2019 – April 2020), Omar Ishrak and I worked hand-in-hand to lay the foundation for my transition to the CEO role at Medtronic.
We discussed the opportunities and challenges ahead, building resilience for the future and protecting our first priority — an unwavering pursuit of our Mission to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life for patients around the world.
The path is clear because our purpose is clear .
Our deep commitment to global corporate citizenship  will continue to drive everything we do: adding value to society through the development of innovative, life-saving medical devices and therapies; promoting environmental stewardship; supporting our global workforce; and working responsibly with, and on behalf of, our partners, suppliers, and shareholders.
Adapting to COVID-19: A roadmap   for change Guided by our Mission, Medtronic mobilized and quickly  mapped out a course of action to help global healthcare professionals and partners continue to treat patients  and also protect themselves in the face of COVID-19.
We rapidly increased our internal ventilator production  five-fold from 200 a week pre-pandemic to over 1,000  a week in June.
Early on, we realized we couldn’t meet  the global demand alone and took the unprecedented  step in March to make our ventilator designs available  to manufacturers around the world by publishing  open-source design specifications for our portable, compact ventilator .
Within the first few weeks, the design files were accessed 200,000 times.
I am very proud of how our team around the world was able  to move at the speed of a start-up and execute with the confidence of a seasoned expert.
We operated with a high sense of urgency and conviction to accelerate innovation and unlock the power of our lifesaving technologies to help patients globally.
With clear and decisive plans, and powerful collaboration beyond our walls, work that could have taken months or years instead took days and weeks.
New partnerships with Intel Corporation, Foxconn,  SpaceX, and others broke down barriers between industry segments to enhance care — helping with the critical global need for ventilators, speeding development, optimizing a strained supply chain, and harnessing the expertise of NGOs. We contributed to innovations in virtual and remote care to introduce safer COVID-19-related and routine treatments.
And between Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation, we donated $18.5 million in FY20 to COVID-19 relief efforts — part of a larger pledge of more than $36 million.
From engineers working on the next breakthrough to  those in our factories making lifesaving products; from field representatives on the frontline to those virtually changing lives, I’m deeply grateful for the way our people chose to stay on the frontlines and contribute to the healthcare professionals, facilities, and systems that  have been fighting this pandemic.
Despite enduring personal hardships, they stepped up their support for  our healthcare partners, so we stepped up our support for them.
Throughout this pandemic, we’ve shown what Medtronic  does best: forge the trail ahead in service of putting patients first, proving a 60+ year old Mission can still  inspire innovative thinking.
Supporting a global workforce:   Global inclusion, diversity, and equity A new spotlight is shining on injustices that weigh down  our ability to truly progress as an equitable society globally.
The senseless killing of George Floyd in our home town of Minneapolis, MN, was a wake up call.
The effect of Floyd’s death combined with the death of countless others created a ripple effect, lifting the issues of systemic racism and inequities beyond the U.S. As we support our global workforce, we’re actively leaning into actions and policies that further advance our global inclusion, diversity, and equity work for our employees and in support of the communities where we live and work.
In FY20, we achieved important performance targets   in our workforce and economic impact through our  supply chain:     100% gender pa y equity in many countries including the  U.S. and 99% gender pay equity globally; and 99% ethnic pay equity in the U.S.  >     COMPANY   O VERVIEW A MESSAGE  FROM OUR CEO >   A ME SSAGE   FROM THE CEO  Over the past months, we’ve seen ties between health, progress, and prosperity strain   in real time due to the hardships brought on by the pandemic.
Life as we know it changed dramatically, as did the role of the private sector in many ways.
MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT     50% of our w orkforce and 39% of our global  management are women     37% of our U .S.
workforce and 23% of our U.S.  management are ethnically diverse     One of thr ee companies recognized this year by  Catalyst, a global nonprofit focused on accelerating  progress for women     $2.4 billion pur chased from small and diverse businesses When it comes to inclusion and diversity, we’re committed to playing an active role in driving progress.
In FY21 and into FY22, we will be implementing a holistic program of changes.
We will establish a new governance framework for inclusion and diversity.
Executive leadership will own its success and define unified standards to measure long-term progress, which will be reported and overseen by the Medtronic Board.
We will tailor representation goals to each region, driving equity in ways that meet the unique concerns of our employees around the world.
We will expand training to address unconscious bias and make ally-ship the expectation for all.
We will unify performance measures, linking them to equal compensation and advancement opportunities for all people managers.
And, we are committed to reporting on our progress.
Promoting environmental stewardship:   Raising the bar As we look ahead, we recognize the need to tackle climate  change to preserve a healthy society.
We’ve stepped up our program for reducing our global environmental footprint and protecting the natural resources we all rely on.
I’m proud to share that we achieved all our FY20 Environmental Performance Goals established against our FY13 baseline.
These include significant reductions in energy use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, regulated and non-regulated waste, and water use.
While we are pleased with these results, we know there  is more that can be done.
That’s why we set a goal to be carbon neutral in our operations by FY30.
T o achieve this, we’ve set aggressive new FY25 targets on emissions and energy in addition to targets on water and waste.
Adapting to a changing climate requires us to build business resilience, and the actions we are taking are reflected in our first T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, located in the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) Disclosure Index at the end of this report.
Working responsibly in everything we do As stewards of human health and well-being, and with an aspiration to be the undisputed leader in healthcare technology, we need to prioritize sustainability to create a better world.
We consider it a strategic imperative, and we’ve shown leadership and commitment to these principles.
Going forward, we will continue to invest in the ESG factors that are most aligned to our Mission while  also driving long term growth and profitability.
We’ll apply the highest standards of ethics, quality, safety, security,  and reliability.
And we’ll act with a renewed purpose to operate as responsible corporate citizens — because it  is the right thing to do.
I want to again thank the frontline healthcare workers fighting COVID-19 every day, those caring for the many other needs of patients worldwide, and all the Medtronic employees who’ve gone the extra mile during this difficult time.
I’m thankful beyond words for their sacrifice and tireless resolve.
They are an inspiration to all of us in healthcare — and to our communities around the world.
If there’s one lesson FY20 taught our team , it’s that  when we focus energy on our Mission to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life, we can make a meaningful difference to patients and customers around the world.
Medtronic has never been more focused on our purpose  or clearer on our role as a responsible corporate citizen.
I’m honored to be Medtronic’s CEO following in the footsteps of so many strong and inspiring leaders.
The future we make is up to us, and we must seize the opportunities ahead in our next chapter to continue to  fulfill the Medtronic Mission.
Geoff Martha Chief Executive Officer , Medtronic >     COMPANY   O VERVIEWA MESSAGE  FROM OUR CEO >   A ME SSAGE   FROM THE CEO  MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT For more than 60 years, our Mission   has guided everything we do, and our  focus on improving health outcomes remains constant in the face of evolving global challenges: 1     T o contribute to human welfare by  application of biomedical engineering   in the research, design, manufacture,  and sale of instruments or appliances  that alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life.
2     T o direct our growth in the areas of   biomedical engineering where we display maximum strength and ability; to gather people and facilities that tend to augment these areas; to continuously build on these areas through education and knowledge assimilation; to avoid participation in areas where we cannot make unique and worthy contributions.3      T o strive without reserve for the greatest  possible reliability and quality in our  products; to be the unsurpassed standard of comparison and to be recognized as a company of dedication, honesty, integrity, and service.
4     T o make a fair profit on current  operations to meet our obligations, sustain our growth, and reach our goals.
5     T o recognize the personal worth of all  employees by providing an employment framework that allows personal satisfaction in work accomplished, security, advancement opportunity, and means to share in the company’s success.
6     T o maintain good citizenship as a  company.Medtronic delivers medical technology to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life.
We harness the power of innovation and partnership to build more effective healthcare  systems and get treatment to those who need it most.
THE MEDTRONIC  MISSION >   C OMPANY  OVERVIEW>   THE MEDTR ONIC   MISSIONMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT In early FY21, we announced that we will be reorganizing our business groups  into more autonomous operating units by the start of our fourth quarter of FY21.
Through this change we aim to accelerate growth, fuel innovation, and focus our efforts in specific therapy areas where we can make the greatest impact for patients.
>   C OMPANY  OVERVIEWWe deliver medical technologies, therapies, services, and solutions through our four operating  groups: Cardiac and Vascular , Diabetes, Minimally Invasive Therapies, and Restorative Therapies.
>   OUR   BUSINESSCARDIAC AND VASCULAR $10,468m     Car diac Rhythm and   Heart Failure     Coronary and Structural Heart     Aortic, Peripheral,   and Venous RESTORA TIVE THERAPIES  $7,725m     S pine     Br ain Therapies     S pecialty Therapies     P ain Therapies DIABETES $2,368mMINIMALL Y   INVASIVE THERAPIES  $8,352m      Surgical Innovations     Respiratory,   Gastrointestinal,   and RenalMEDTRONIC  OPERA TING GROUPS AND FY20 SALES TOT AL SALES $28,913mOUR  BUSINESS GLOBAL FOOTPRINT FY20 NET SALES TO EXTERNAL CUSTOMERS BY REGION 1  The United States includes the U.S. and U.S. territories.
2   Non-U .S.
developed markets include Australia, Canada, Japan, Korea, New Zealand,  and the countries within Western Europe 3   Emer ging markets include the countries of Africa, Eastern Europe, the Middle  East, Latin America, and the countries of Asia that are not included in the non-U.S.  developed markets, as defined above.UNITED ST A TES1  $14,919m 52%NON-U.S.  DEVELOPED  MARKETS2  $9,287m 32%EMERGING   MARKETS3  $4,707m 16%MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT FY20 RECOGNITION FOR CORPORA TE CITIZENSHIP   AND INNOVA TION 2020 CA T AL YST AWARD  for Inspiring Change and  Accelerating Progress for Women  in the Workplace FTSE4GOOD INDEX recognizes companies with strong environmental, social, and governance performance 3BL ASSOCIA TION 100 Best Corporate Citizens of DISABILITY EQUALITY INDEX 2020 Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion DIVERSITYINC 2020 T op 50 Companies for Diversity EDISON AWARD 2020 Best New Products FORBES America’s Best Employers for New Graduates FORBES Best Employers for Diversity   FORTUNE World’s Most Admired Companies 2020, second in Medical Products and Equipment Industry HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN  CORPORA TE EQUALITY INDEX 100% score as a Best Place to Work  for LGBTQ Equality DOW JONES SUST AINABILITY  NORTH AMERICA COMPOSITE  INDEX 13th consecutive year REFINITIV 2019 Global Diversity and Inclusion  Index WOMEN’S BUSINESS  ENTERPRISE NA TIONAL COUNCIL America’s T op Corporations for  Women-Owned Businesses >   C OMPANY  OVERVIEWFY20  SNAPSHOT >   CITIZENSHIP  SNAP SHOT 90,000+   EMPLOYEES 150+ COUNTRIES IN   WHICH WE OPERA TE49,000+   PA TENTS 72m+ PA TIENTS SERVED$2.3b INVESTED IN  RESEARCH &  DEVELOPMENT $ MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   C OMPANY  OVERVIEWA MISSION   AS A ROADMAP: OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has placed extraordinary pressure on healthcare systems,  communities, economies, and organizations of all sizes.
Using our Mission as a guide, we mobilized quickly to  prioritize the well-being of our employees and their families.
We partnered with others around the world to deliver essential products and support to the patients, healthcare professionals, and communities that need  them most.
Here we summarize some of our key responses to the  pandemic that occured during fiscal year 2020 (FY20).
We also include more detail in relevant sections of this report.
Our crisis response to COVID-19 will continue as long as needed, while we also work toward a sustainable recovery in the aftermath of this global emergency.
SAFEGUARDING OUR EMPLOYEES   Our employees are the heart of our business.
T o address the unique needs of the 90,000+ people in our workforce during the pandemic, we focused on targeted programs to ensure their safety and provided direct financial, health, and well-being support.
Our cross-functional Crisis Response team managed and  coordinated our companywide response in line with our crisis management system.
Protecting critical employees T o help limit exposure to the virus, we acted to ensure employees in business-critical functions who cannot work from home were protected — including those in research and development, quality, manufacturing, distribution, and the field.
We implemented precautionary measures such as providing personal protective equipment (PPE), increased sanitation, social distancing guidance, and facility updates such as one-way hallways, partitions at cafeteria tables, and extra sinks.
Employee programs and benefits T o support our employees who were able to work from home, we offered flexible working hours and provided a guide to thriving virtually.
Mental health support and new well-being tools — focused on food, finance, stress reduction, and fitness — were made available to all Medtronic employees.
Companywide programs included:     The M edtronic Emergency Leave Pay Policy, which  allows employees to take up to 30 days of pay for certain scenarios related to COVID-19, unless local law or policy require otherwise     The M edtronic Employee Emergency Assistance  Fund, which provides financial need-based grants to employees experiencing financial hardship, including childcare and any uncovered medical costs In addition to temperature checks and testing for employees working onsite, we offered all employees in the United States and Puerto Rico a free Medtronic Care Management Services (MCMS) Virtual COVID-19 Care Evaluation and Monitoring Solution.SUPPORTING PA TIENTS  AND  HEAL THCARE PROFESSIONALS  Our Mission to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend   life is more relevant than ever .
We are helping to address the crisis by ensuring healthcare professionals can  access vital equipment to achieve better outcomes for COVID-19 patients.
Delivering critical products and therapies We accelerated production and distribution of essential products such as ventilators, pulse oximeters, and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation machines.
As of June 2020, we increased ventilator production fivefold from pre-pandemic production levels of less  than 200 per week to 1,000 per week.
We put our Mission above competitive advantage and  formed new collaborations to meet the critical global need for ventilators, resulting in partnerships with Foxconn, SpaceX, and others.
At the end of March, we published open-source design specifications for our portable, compact ventilator , the Puritan Bennett 560 (PB560).
In the first few weeks, there were more than 200,000 downloads of the blueprint.
We also worked with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to authorize emergency  use of this ventilator in the United States.
Partnering with our suppliers As countries began closing borders and restricting  imports and exports to limit the spread of the virus, our global supply chain confronted extraordinary challenges.
>   A MISSION AS A ROADMAP:  OUR REPONSE TO THE   COVID-19 PANDEMICMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   C OMPANY  OVERVIEWWe worked to help suppliers continue operating and ramp  up production of critical components.
Some invested millions in new equipment and infrastructure.
Many hired more employees and shifted to 24/7 production to make parts.
T ogether , Medtronic and supplier teams worked quickly to:     Secure government permission to operate as essential  businesses     Obtain the paper work needed to let employees travel   to work     Incr ease production by acquiring additional raw materials  and expanding workforces Carriers have prioritized medical product shipments, and some offer dedicated personnel to work exclusively with Medtronic freight.
Providing remote tools, essential services,   and capacity building T o help healthcare professionals reduce exposure and  conserve limited resources such as PPE, we accelerated the development of a remote management capability  of our Puritan Bennett™ 980 (PB980) ventilator .
This software upgrade — developed within a matter of weeks — enables clinicians to adjust the ventilator settings  away from the patient.
We have adapted several services and programs to support patients impacted by COVID-19 and those in high-risk groups, including:     Expanding the M edtronic Assurance program to  offer support to eligible diabetes customers who have lost health insurance due to COVID-19-related unemployment     Off ering MCMS solutions to remotely assess potential  COVID-19 symptoms, including for our employees, customers, and U.S. health systems, health plans,  and employers    Ext ending the coverage and capability of our telehealth  solutions, including remote monitoring of pulse oximeters, remote pacemaker programming, and CareLink — our internet-based remote monitoring service for patients with implanted cardiac devices We have increased our focus on education for customers, patients, and healthcare professionals.
Since the start  of the pandemic, we have delivered dozens of virtual physician forums and training programs, including remote ventilator training through the newly formed Ventilator T raining Alliance.
INVESTING IN HEAL TH AND  COMMUNITIES AROUND THE WORLD As the coronavirus pandemic unfolds, we are providing  resources to help partners strengthen healthcare response and support underserved communities.
In FY20, Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation donated a combined  $18.5 million to COVID-19 relief efforts, part of a larger pledge of more than $36 million that was announced in  May 2020.
We recognize that minority communities are  disproportionately affected by COVID-19.
As a result,  we will  integrate our approach to inclusion, diversity, and equity in our response to the pandemic.
Public-private partnerships Many communities lack the resources and infrastructure to respond effectively to a health emergency such as COVID-19.
Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation started working with key agencies and institutions, including the World Health Organization, FEMA, the  G20, and the World Bank to:     Assess and under stand evolving needs     Prioritiz e access to Medtronic and partners’ products     Pr ovide additional assistance in the form of product  donations or financial contributions Product donation We donated products to help a range of organizations and hospitals deliver lifesaving care to patients, including:     Ventilators, respiratory filters, and pulse oximeters to  help patients recovering from COVID-    PPE pr ovided by our 3D Printing and Physiological  Research Labs teams to protect healthcare workers Medtronic Foundation giving  The Medtronic Foundation has made financial  donations to:     Do zens of global and local nonprofit organizations,  equipping frontline health workers globally and investing in local response efforts to assist vulnerable populations      Nearly 50 local c ommunity organizations and food  banks providing critical resources and assistance to underserved populations worldwide >   A MISSION AS A ROADMAP:  OUR REPONSE TO THE   COVID-19 PANDEMICIN FY20, MEDTRONIC  AND THE MEDTRONIC FOUNDA TION DONA TED A COMBINED $18.5 MILLION TO COVID-19 RELIEF EFFORTS30 DAYS OF   PAY OFFERED   to employees for certain  scenarios related to COVID-19 through the Medtronic Emergency Leave Pay Policy200,000+ downloads of the   open-source design blueprint for our  portable, compact ventilator in the first  few weeks it was available  $18.5m DONA TED   to COVID-19 relief  efforts by Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation FY20 COVID-19  RESPONSE  HIGHLIGHTS 4   T his feature has not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
This feature was developed in accordance with the FDA Enforcement Policy for  Ventilators and Accessories and other Respiratory Devices During the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   C OMPANY  OVERVIEWSUST AINABILITY  STRA TEGY AND REPORTINGSustainability is central to our Mission.
By understanding and acting on our environmental,   social, and governance (ESG) responsibilities, we can create positive change and deliver  even greater long-term value for our business and stakeholders.
>   SUST AINABILITY  S TRA TEGY AND   REPORTINGOur approach focuses on identifying our material  sustainability issues, tracking expectations and performance against them, and reporting our progress  and aspirations.
OUR MA TERIAL ISSUES  We undertake regular reviews to monitor and assess our top sustainability issues — from product innovation to supplier and customer engagement.
We focus on issues that:     Ha ve the potential to significantly impact our business  growth, finances, or reputation     Ar e important to our stakeholders     Ar e aligned with our Mission In FY20, we updated our list of material issues after  engaging with a broad range of internal and external stakeholders.
This included conversations with key internal stakeholders, investors, policymakers, governments, customers, industry association representatives, and nongovernmental organizations.
The table on page 11 shows how our material issues align  with the various tenets of our Mission and, in turn, frame our contributions to the SDGs.SUST AINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS   We support the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to achieve “peace and prosperity for people and the planet.” The COVID-19 crisis highlights that now, more than ever , businesses, communities, governments, and international organizations must come together to tackle complex and difficult issues.
We are determined to be part of the solution to global challenges, focusing on the goals where we can make the greatest contribution (above).MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT OUR MA TERIAL SUST AINABILITY ISSUES Mission Material issue SDG alignment T enet 1: Contribute to human  welfare by alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life T enet 2: Direct growth in areas   of biomedical engineering through education and knowledge assimilation    Innovation and Access     Integrated Care T enet 3: Strive without reserve for the greatest possible reliability and quality in our products and being recognized as a company of dedication, honesty, integrity, and service    Product Quality and Safety     T echnology and Device Security     Data Privacy and Security     Ethics in Sales and Marketing     Corruption and Bribery     T ransparency T enet 4: Make a fair profit by meeting our obligations, sustaining our growth, and reaching our goals    Affordability and Fair Pricing     Climate Risk and Resilience     Responsible Supply Management     Product Stewardship T enet 5: Recognize the personal worth of all employees by advancing opportunity     Inclusion and Diversity     T alent T enet 6: Maintain good citizenship as a companyAs a good corporate citizen we use all of our resources, including philanthropy and community  investment, to address our material ESG Issues.
>   C OMPANY  OVERVIEW>   SUST AINABILITY  STRA TEGY AND  REPORTINGThe three focus areas within our list of material issues,  where we have a particular opportunity to make a difference, are listed below.
Inno vation and Access — Increasing the availability  of treatments through therapy innovation and new application of existing technologies, as well as accessibility to them through capacity building, infrastructure improvement, regulatory approval, and remote diagnosis or treatment.
Read more in the  Global Healthcare Access, Philanthropy, and  The Economic Impacts of Our Business sections of  this report.
Product Quality and Safety — Managing product quality   as it relates to all key stakeholders through Design, Reliability, Manufacturability (DRM); supplier quality; and global compliance and corrective action.
Read more in the Product Quality and Supplier Quality Management sections of this report.
Inclusion and Di versity — Advancing fair treatment  and adequate representation of ethnicities and gender through equitable professional opportunities and pay  and proactive inclusion of groups facing barriers.
Read more in the Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity and Supplier Diversity sections of this report.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT FY20 ST AKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES Key FY20 Engagements Outcomes  Healthcare  Professionals and AdministratorsWorked with organizations such as the World Health Organization to distribute donated products to healthcare professionals in response to COVID-Invested $145.4 million on training for medical professionals to achieve better  patient outcomes and access to healthcare through continuous learning and upskilling$8.4 million in product donations distributed to healthcare professionals Reached 62,889 medical professionals Patients and Patient  Advocacy GroupsInvested $18.9 million to deliver capacity building for patients Spearheaded the Ventilator T raining Alliance app in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, providing training and information on all ventilator types by all major manufacturers, including Medtronic Shareholders and Institutional InvestorsHeld quarterly calls about business health, including a focus on COVID-19  and transition to our new CEO Published our first T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures index, available as part of our ESG Disclosure Index Suppliers and DistributorsWorked with suppliers to keep our global supply chains open during COVID-Worked with a leading logistics provider to offset emissionsSuppliers secured government permission to operate as essential businesses and  increased production of essential components and products Offset 100% of our Minimally Invasive Therapies Group's transportation emissions  with a selected carrier in CY19, equivalent to 7,270 MT CO 2e Employees Continued our Project 6 volunteering program Invested in additional programs and benefits to support employees in the   context of COVID-Engaged employees through our biannual Organizational Health Survey14,000 employees contributed 170,000 hours to 934 projects in 49 countries77% employee engagement rate, placing Medtronic 11% above the industry average Government   Regulators and PolicymakersOrganized the first public-private sector roundtable on value-based healthcare (VBHC) at the June G20 meeting in Japan Attended the United Nations High-Level Meeting on Universal Health Coverage   as the only private-sector panel member Supported Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act, which protects both sexual  orientation and gender identity from employment discrimination Continued to participate in business and trade organizations to collaborate for  advancements in global healthDecisions by G20 governments to have a continual focus and dialogue on VBHC A shared political declaration was established among world leaders recognizing that  all people should have access to quality, affordable healthcare A favorable ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court on Title VII, representing  groundbreaking progress on this issue in the United States Nongovernmental OrganizationsSupported COVID-19 response efforts through the Medtronic Foundation's partnership with  approximately 50 global and local nonprofits $6.6 million distributed through health grants and community grants Local Communities Continued programs to expand access to healthcare for underserved  communities through Medtronic LABSMore than 1,000 health workers trained and 235,000 patients screened Peers and Partners Formed partnerships with Foxconn, Intel Corporation, SpaceX, and others to increase and improve access to ventilators in response to COVID-Provided funding and research support for a CB 2 (a university-led research   group) project on bio-based packagingIncreased our internal ventilator production fivefold from pre-pandemic levels  >   C OMPANY  OVERVIEW>   SUST AINABILITY  STRA TEGY AND  REPORTINGST AKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  By working with and learning from our stakeholders and  peers, we can meet challenges more effectively and amplify the positive impact of our business.
Engaging with others also helps us understand what’s expected of us  and holds us accountable for our actions.
We engage with our key stakeholders through a range of  mechanisms and for a variety of purposes, including:     Sharing inf ormation, holding ourselves accountable, and  seeking feedback on our approach and performance     Communicating our expectations and standards with  employees, suppliers, and partners     Sharing e xpertise and knowledge, including through  training and capacity building     Pr oviding support, for example, through Medtronic  Foundation programs, volunteerism, giving, and  disaster relief     W orking with others to develop new products, widen  healthcare access, and advocate for change The table on the right shows key examples of our engagement with various stakeholder groups in FY20 and some of the resulting outcomes.
Further examples are provided throughout this report.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT OUR RISK AREAS Risk Response Product quality  and patient safety issuesWe embed Design, Reliability, Manufacturability (DRM) best practices in product design and development processes.
We use standardized systems to further a consistent approach to quality in manufacturing processes and at our facilities.
We track product use and collect patient outcome data to measure  and improve safety and to inform future design.
When alerted to regulatory or field safety issues with one of our  products, we take prompt action to assess the situation and implement corrective measures, as appropriate, working to understand and resolve underlying issues and root causes.
Climate risk and resilienceWe manage transitional risks by monitoring carbon regulations including carbon taxes, and we continue to install renewable and alternative energy sources as they become more cost-effective and readily available.
We manage physical risks through business continuity management.
This includes hurricane readiness planning, infrastructure improvement, and risk-exposure analyses that encompass hurricanes, earthquakes, and water stress.
Business impact of unforeseen ethical, social, and environmental regulationsWe monitor relevant regulations in global markets through our Government Affairs, Human Resources, Communications, Environmental, Health and Safety, and Procurement groups.
Our Legal and Compliance teams oversee compliance with those regulations.
We engage industry organizations and regulators to share our  perspectives and prepare for potential and pending regulations.
Failure to meet stakeholder or regulatory expectations of sustainability performance, ethics, and compliance We always aim to meet or exceed expectations and requirements on all aspects of sustainability and ethical conduct.
We set consistent expectations on key issues for employees and  suppliers, for example, through our Global Human Rights program and Responsible Supply Management program.
We regularly train employees on our Code of Conduct and provide  additional compliance training for employees in specific roles to further mitigate the risk of corruption and misconduct.
We have clear processes for reporting and acting on ethical concerns.OUR OPPORTUNITY AREAS Opportunity Response Leading the  industry in meaningful innovation and value-based healthcareWe stay alert to emerging technological innovations and invest in research and development to bring effective, value-driven products and services to market.
We work across healthcare pathways to develop efficient, effective  systems and business models that improve lives.
Increasing accessibility and availability of our products and servicesWe form bold, impactful partnerships with a range of national and local organizations to challenge our thinking and accelerate global access to lifesaving therapies.
We invest in programs to improve healthcare infrastructure and  develop the skills and knowledge of patients and healthcare professionals.
Driving business efficiencyWe continue to increase the efficiency of our own operations, sharing our learning with partners and suppliers.
Capturing cost savings and improving resilience from onsite and renewable energyWe work to increase the proportion of our operational energy supply from renewable sources and onsite generation.
Doing so delivers cost savings, reduces our carbon footprint, and makes our business more resilient to external shifts in energy pricing and supply.
>   C OMPANY  OVERVIEW>   SUST AINABILITY  STRA TEGY AND  REPORTINGSUST AINABILITY MANAGEMENT   AND GOVERNANCE  The Nominating and Governance Committee of the  Medtronic board of directors oversees the company’s  ESG practices and has been including specific ESG agenda topics in each of its quarterly meetings during FY20.
In addition, other committees engage in climate-related discussions as appropriate.
Our Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) guides our  companywide approach to sustainability, and we embed sustainability throughout our operations.
Managing risks and creating opportunities We continually monitor emerging sustainability issues, so that we can anticipate risks and create value from opportunities.
The table on the right lists some of our current risk and opportunity areas, describing our  response to each.
We include more detail about our most significant   business risks in our 2020 Form 10-K and 10-Q filings  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   C OMPANY  OVERVIEW>   SUST AINABILITY  STRA TEGY AND  REPORTINGBusiness continuity and crisis management Preparedness for unexpected events is key to our   resilience as a business.
Incidents such as global health crises, political unrest, and extreme weather have the potential to impact our employees’ lives and disrupt our operations or supply chain.
Our Business Continuity Management program helps us  stay ready for the unexpected.
It focuses on four key areas:     Business c ontinuity.
We put resources and contingency  plans in place so we can continue to operate and meet the needs of our patients and customers in adverse circumstances.
Crisis management.
The Medtronic Crisis Management  team prioritizes and coordinates resources and response activities during crisis situations and is sponsored by members of our Executive  Committee.
The operational response is supported by the Medtronic Global Command Center and leadership across Medtronic.
Emer gency response.
We prioritize keeping our people  and assets safe and work to minimize  environmental impact.
IT disast er response and recovery.
We respond   quickly to technological failures and work to reinstate affected infrastructure.
Read more about the philanthropic support provided by Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation during global crises and natural disasters.In addition to our Mission, we use external  frameworks and benchmarks to inform our sustainability strategy and reporting and to learn where we can do better .
These include:     CDP : We submit data on climate and water  annually to understand and improve our  environmental impact relative to our peers.
Global R eporting Initiative, Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board, and T ask Force  on Climate-related Financial Disclosures:  We report on relevant indicators and disclosures through this Integrated Performance Report  and ESG Disclosure Index.
UN SDG S:   We map our contributions to the relevant goals.CRISIS MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE EXTERNAL REPORTING   AND BENCHMARKING CRISIS MANAGEMENT  TEAMS Corporate Corporate functions and business  groups provide strategic guidance   and coordinated support to   countries and sites Regional Regional crisis action teams provide  consistent and timely corporate  support during crisis events Local/Site T eams provide coordinated  response  for events impacting an area of  significance to Medtronic CRISIS MANAGEMENT  PROCESS Monitor Notify Lessons LearnedManage EventActivate Deactivate & Hand OffMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT ADDING VALUE  TO SOCIETY We develop innovative products and therapies to improve   the lives of patients globally.
But innovation alone is not enough.
Our products must be accessible and affordable to those who need them most.
This is the basis of our global healthcare  access and strategic philanthropic programs.
GLOBAL HEAL THCARE ACCESS    PHILANTHROPY    THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF BUSINESSMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT GLOBAL  HEAL THCARE ACCESSADDING VALUE TO SOCIETYADDING BUSINESS VALUE Our business success depends on our ability to make our products and therapies  accessible to the patients who need them.
We are working to improve the availability and affordability of our products by forming partnerships around new healthcare models and investing in critical skills and infrastructure.
Our approach benefits society by increasing access to essential healthcare for underserved communities.
EXPANDING ACCESS TO QUALITY HEAL THCARE  Fulfilling our Mission requires that our products be accessible to as many people as  possible.
In FY20, we contributed to positive health outcomes for more than 72 million patients, but millions more still lack access to essential treatment.
We improve access to our products by developing innovative treatments for unmet healthcare needs, partnering with others to deliver new healthcare models and solutions, and investing in education and skills.CLINICAL   STUDIES ST ARTED ONGOINGCLINICAL STUDIESA T THE ENDOF FYCLINICAL  STUDIES COMPLETEDOUR  INNOVA TION  PIPELINEFULFILLING OUR MISSION IN FY20, WE CONTRIBUTED TO   POSITIVE HEAL TH OUTCOMES FOR MORE THAN 72 MILLION PA TIENTS >      ADDING VALUE   T O SOCIETY>   GL OBAL  HEAL THCARE  ACCESS MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT TECHNOLOGY  INNOVA TION  We invest in meaningful innovation that will make a  difference to patients and healthcare systems globally.We maintain a strong product pipeline by developing novel applications of existing technologies, investing in emerging innovations, and exploring new materials.
The potential  for medical technology to improve health outcomes is nearly boundless.
We harness that potential to develop  and deliver effective products and therapies to market.
Our current focus areas include:     Robotics — for improving clinical outcomes,  standardizing therapy delivery, and assisting with   clinical decision workflow     Artificial int elligence (AI) and machine learning —   for a range of applications, including visual computing  to aid clinical decisions and deep learning algorithms  that adapt to patient needs     Simulation and modeling  — to develop validated  methods in partnership with regulators and clinicians,  enabling innovations to get to market faster      Remote innovation — in response to the COVID-19  pandemic, we increased our focus on virtual and remote innovation, helping to maintain access to vital care while reducing exposure for patients and healthcare professionals  >     ADDING   V ALUE TO  SOCIETY>   GL OBAL  HEAL THCARE ACCESSOUR INNOVA TION PIPELINE  FY18 FY19 FYT otal R&D investment $2.3 b $2.3 b $2.3 b Clinical studies started572 55 Clinical studies completed581 63 Ongoing clinical studies at end of fiscal year5320 279 5  We changed our methodology for calculating figures in FY20 to improve accuracy.Research and clinical trials We develop and test potential new solutions through   a rigorous process of design, development, and preclinical and clinical studies.
Our development processes include predictive technology  to enhance our understanding of how a product will work in the field.
We generate cost-effective evidence using advanced statistical methodology and modeling simulations, while also bringing promising innovations to clinical trials.
Our focus, however , remains on safety and effectiveness, always with the patient experience and outcomes at the center .
FY20 highlights include:     Initiating a w orldwide pivotal study to evaluate our  Extravascular ICD, a novel implantable defibrillator  system with a lead placed outside the heart and veins.
Advancing work to help tackle the opioid crisis by  developing innovative pain management therapies, including targeted drug delivery and a novel approach  to spinal cord stimulation, both for the treatment of chronic pain.
New products Selected new product launches in FY20 include:    The Car eLink SmartSyncTM Device Manager allows  physicians to program and download data from compatible cardiac implants using an iPad.
GI Genius Int elligent Endoscopy Module, offered through  a strategic partnership with Cosmo Pharmaceuticals, is an AI-enhanced endoscopy system designed to detect colorectal polyps.
This device is CE-marked and was launched in selected European markets.
GI Genius does not have U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval or clearance and therefore is not available for sale in the United States.
Micr a™ AV is the world’s smallest pacemaker with  atrioventricular (AV) synchrony providing a leadless and minimally invasive implant procedure option for patients with AV block.
Read more about our new FY20 products at the  Medtronic Newsroom.
Partnerships for innovation Partnership and collaboration play an essential role in  enabling us to find and extend innovative solutions to local and global health challenges.
FY20 highlights include:     Continued contributions as a core partner in the  European Institute of Innovation and T echnology (EIT) health consortium, with a focus on innovation and business creation     A str ategic distribution partnership with Viz.ai for its  applied AI software to help synchronize stroke care — potentially saving time and increasing access to lifesaving stroke treatments Read more about our approach to acquisitions —  another way we increase access to groundbreaking healthcare solutions.
DEVELOPING AFFORDABLE,  SUST AINABLE HEAL THCARE MODELS Affordability is just as important to improving access as  the physical availability of a product or service, because the best treatment options are sometimes financially inaccessible for patients and healthcare providers.
Driven by our Mission, our goal is to make medical technology available to any patient in the world, and we develop specific pricing programs and policies to enable this.
We are creating new healthcare models — based on value, efficiency, and outcomes — that narrow the gap between what is available and what is affordable.
Our pricing takes into account local structures and healthcare systems including the economic value that our products generate for the healthcare system, as well as market dynamics.
We aim to price our products fairly and reasonably, and we offer a variety of pricing models, including:     Volume pricing or rebate options for hospitals     Adaptive pricing for treating long-term conditions     Pr ograms to assist new and existing patients We provide a range of price points across a given technology portfolio to match different affordability levels and willingness to pay for the same technology.
Value-based healthcare Healthcare providers, governments, and payers are under pressure to improve patient outcomes and reduce costs.
T raditional models of payment by volume of product or therapy do not incentivize value.
We believe the solution MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT lies in a transition to value-based healthcare (VBHC) models.
VBHC is an integrated approach to combining products, services, and solutions that improve patient outcomes  per dollar spent in the healthcare system.
Value is measured by long-term patient outcomes rather than short-term transactions.
The value-based approach is gaining traction globally,  and to accelerate this transformation we continue to collaborate with others and advocate the advantages of this model.
In FY20, we organized the first public-private sector  roundtable on VBHC at the June G20 meeting in Japan, followed by a larger session at the January G20 meeting in Saudi Arabia.
This led to decisions by the G20 governments to have a continual focus and dialogue on VBHC matters.
We also focused on VBHC during a meeting we hosted at the United Nations High-Level Meeting on Universal Health Coverage.
As COVID-19 has profoundly changed the future for  payers, health systems, and Medtronic, VBHC presents  the opportunity to positively rethink how we define value and design programs to meet the challenges created by the pandemic.
EXPANDING GLOBAL HEAL THCARE  ACCESS Healthcare is advancing every day, but the benefits of  these developments are not shared equally.
T oo many people still do not have access to the products, treatments, and services that are standard care for others.
This is particularly true for preventing, detecting, and treating noncommunicable diseases.
We work across healthcare pathways to develop and scale  programs that expand access to our products and services in underserved communities.
>     ADDING   V ALUE TO  SOCIETY>   GL OBAL  HEAL THCARE ACCESSAn estimated 1 in every 200 patients who  receive pain medication after surgery develop  breathing problems within a few hours.6 Y et this  complication is often preventable.
Our Value-Based Healthcare Partnerships team and  Minimally Invasive Therapies Group worked with the  Lehigh Valley Health Network (L VHN) in the United  Stated to develop a unique Enhanced Respiratory  Monitoring program.
This data-driven solution  identifies and automatically monitors postsurgical  patients or patients receiving opioids who may be at  risk of developing breathing problems.
Nearly 18 months after we launched the program,  we found a lower incidence of adverse events for  patients receiving pain medication, and L VHN is  achieving cost savings — demonstrating the dual  benefit of a value-based approach to healthcare.
“We are seeing fewer code blues, fewer transfers to  the ICU, fewer intubations,” said Matt McCambridge,  M.D., chief quality and patient safety officer at L VHN.
“It’s really early, but we think the monitoring tool, plus  the work of our doctors and nurses, is taking us to  another level in patient safety.” 6   F redricksen, TW & Lambrecht, JE.
(2018).
Using the 2018 Guidelines from  the Joint Commission to Kickstart Y our Hospital’s Program to Reduce  Opioid-Induced Ventilatory Impairment.
APSF Newsletter , volume 33  (number 1).
Page 1 & 8-10.HELPING  PA TIENTS AND HOSPIT ALS BREA THE EASIERCASE   STUDY Integrated Health  Solutions  Working with healthcare facilities to optimize clinical and operational processes — improving efficiency and patient access to carePatient Access Insights  Identifying local barriers  to accessVBHC Partnerships Partnering with healthcare providers globally to implement VBHC programsHub-and-Spoke Model We apply a hub-and-spoke approach to connecting communities with effective healthcare systems in areas with limited resources and infrastructure.
The hub is a state-of-the-art hospital, which connects with healthcare centers in the surrounding community — the spokes.
This creates a defined, coordinated pathway from locally accessed diagnostics and care through to referrals for more complex treatment at the hub when needed Capacity Building  Upskilling healthcare professionals and  patientsMedtronic Care Management Services  Remote patient monitoring solutions in the United StatesMedtronic LABS Designing, building, and scaling patient- and community-centric, technology-enabled healthcare delivery models POTENTIAL NEW   MARKETS FOR  OUR PRODUCTSPublic-Private Partnerships  Addressing gaps in healthcare  systemsPatient Access Acceleration Identifying market-level barriers  to accessEXISTING MARKETSMEDTRONIC PROGRAMS TO INCREASE HEAL THCARE ACCESS HEAL THCARE PROFESSIONALSCOMMUNITYCLINIC/HOSPIT AL PA TIENTMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT Medtronic Care Management Services Remote health monitoring through digital platforms  and telehealth offers a cost-effective7 way to improve  outcomes8 and engage patients in monitoring their own  symptoms and health data.
Medtronic Care Management Services (MCMS)  offers remote patient monitoring that combines care management services with patient engagement  solutions, data analytics, and reporting.
MCMS works  with health systems, post-acute care providers, and  health plans to integrate and scale monitoring programs  for patients with complex, chronic, comorbid conditions.
In FY20, MCMS responded to the COVID-19 pandemic  by developing and launching two new remote monitoring solutions:     The Respiratory Infectious Disease Health Check  is designed for patients with chronic, comorbid health conditions at the highest risk of complications associated with COVID-19.
It is included as an  add-on to all MCMS remote monitoring programs.
Patients can track their respiratory infectious disease symptoms and body temperature through daily  health checks.
The Medtronic COVID-19 Virtual Care Evaluation   and Monitoring solution combines a virtual  assistant symptom survey with a registered nurse command center .
It provides assessment, remote monitoring, and recommendations for patients  with potential COVID-19 symptoms, based on  U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  (CDC) Guidelines.
This stand-alone offering was designed for health systems, health plans, and  large employers.
It is also available to all U.S.- and  Puerto Rico-based Medtronic employees and  their eligible dependents.MCMS will continue to invest in technologies to  transform healthcare systems and the virtualization of  care — focusing on home-based connectivity and  high-quality, impactful clinical decision-making.
Patient access acceleration and insights  We quantify treatment needs and uncover key barriers  to access in developed and emerging markets using our data-driven Patient Access Acceleration (PAA) methodology.
PAA insights help remove barriers by guiding our   market development strategy and driving investment in key areas to remove those barriers — including evidence generation, economic coverage expansion, capacity building, training and education, and disease and  therapy awareness.
We combine data each year from thousands of PAA  assessments across countries and therapies, applying what we learn to improve planning and reduce risks associated with future market development investments.
Our Patient Access Insights (PAI) consulting service  identifies local needs and barriers to access and informs the development of appropriate solutions.
We partner with hospitals around the world to apply PAI   to specific services and pathways of care.
Going forward, we aim to leverage our PAI service to better inform focus areas for our partnerships with hospitals.
Capacity building With medical knowledge currently estimated to double every 73 days, 9 it can be challenging for professionals and  patients to stay on top of the latest developments.
We contribute to the collective knowledge of the  healthcare ecosystem by supporting and delivering capacity-building and training programs.
Continuous learning and upskilling contribute to better patient outcomes, more efficient health systems, and improved access to healthcare.
Examples of our capacity-building work in FY20 include:     Partnering with the Endoscopic and Laparoscopic  Surgeons of Asia (ELSA), we launched a webinar series  to update their 2,550 members on the latest surgical knowledge and interventions.
Launching a patient -focused obesity education   platform in Australia and New Zealand designed to combat myths about obesity and empower people  to start conversations with their physicians.
Spearheading the V entilator T raining Alliance app in  response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The app is free  to download and contains training videos and manuals for all ventilator types by all major manufacturers, including Medtronic.
In FY20 and into FY21 we will continue exploring  new options for remote and virtual learning capabilities  so we can continue to offer capacity building and knowledge sharing for healthcare professionals  during COVID-19.
>     ADDING   V ALUE TO  SOCIETY>   GL OBAL  HEAL THCARE ACCESS7   S tanhope, KM, et al.
(2016).
T elemonitoring reduced costs and inpatient visitation  rates for patients with advanced cardiovascular disease: A matched cohort study.
8   Darkins A, K endall S, Edmonson E, Y oung M, Stressel P .
Reduced cost and mortality  using home telehealth to promote self-management of complex chronic conditions:  a retrospective matched cohort study of 4,999 veteran patients.
T elemed J E Health 2015 Jan; 21(1):70-6.
This study is based on MCMS solutions and Medtronic data combined with third-party solutions and data, which are not necessarily identical to the MCMS solution or Medtronic data.
9   Challenges and Opport unities Facing Medical Education, Peter Densen,   T rans Am Clin Climatol Assoc.
2011; 122: 48–58.IN FY20, WE INVESTED $145.4  MILLION IN CAPACITY BUILDING AND TRAINING FOR MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS (REACHING 62,889 PEOPLE) AND $18.9 MILLION IN  PA TIENT EDUCA TIONMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT Medtronic LABS Medtronic LABS is a social impact business, funded by  the Medtronic Foundation.
Medtronic LABS works to expand access to healthcare for underserved patients, families, and communities across the world, with a focus on financially sustainable solutions that maximize social impact.
It designs healthcare delivery models that integrate digital and product technologies across the care continuum.
Medtronic LABS solutions are built upon five principles:     Design with and f or communities to address local  barriers across the care continuum     Emplo y evidence-based practices and protocols for  uncompromised clinical excellence     Address the social determinants at the root of   poor health    Int egrate digital and product technologies for high-tech,  high-touch models of care     Inno vate operational models that enable efficiency   at scale Building on progress in FY20, Medtronic LABS will continue  to expand its three current programs through partnerships — with local technology entrepreneurs, healthcare providers, NGOs, governments, and other stakeholders — to amplify impact and scale.
Medtronic LABS is currently assessing modifications to its  programs as a result of COVID-19.
Its focus on innovative technology, including telemedicine and remote monitoring, means the business is well-positioned to adapt in the wake of the pandemic.
>     ADDING   V ALUE TO  SOCIETY>   GL OBAL  HEAL THCARE ACCESSHEAL THCARE CAPACITY BUILDING  FY18 FY19 FYEducation for medical professionals $139.0 m $142.0 m $145.4 m Education for patients $33.8 m $28.6 m $18.9 m Medical professionals reached 89,220 83,123 62,MEDTRONIC LABS IMPACT  FY18 FY19 FYPatients screened (to date) 400,000+ 650,000+ 850,000+ Health workers trained (to date) 130+ 400+ 1,500+ Patients with better clinical and social outcomes (to date) 9,500+ 17,000+ 23,000+ Operational sites throughout India, Ghana, and Kenya 34 65 90Each year , we train thousands of doctors through  our global network of Innovation Centers — providing specialist training to expand and update professional skills and knowledge.
We partner with local institutions to provide  a combination of classroom-based learning, simulation training, hands-on product training,  and web-based, on-demand sessions.
In FY20, more than 26,500 healthcare professionals participated in training at our Innovation Centers  or with selected partners.
We are investigating further options for remote  and digital learning, so we can continue to offer a high level of educational support for healthcare professionals while COVID-19-related social distancing measures remain in place.MEDTRONIC  INNOVA TION CENTERSCASE   STUDY 850,000+ PA TIENTS  SCREENED  23,000+ PA TIENTS WITH BETTER CLINICAL AND SOCIAL  OUTCOMES 1,500+ HEAL TH  WORKERS TRAINEDMEDTRONIC   LABS  IMPACT  TO DA TEMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT Public-private partnerships Public-private partnerships play an important role in  increasing patient access to our products and services in new markets around the world.
We pursue partnerships that address gaps in healthcare, guided by the Medtronic Public-Private Partnership Council.
Our aim is to develop longer-term contracts that enable sustainable, scalable projects and programs in four areas:     R&D     Manufacturing for market access     Clinical tr aining and education     Health s ystem strengthening In FY20, for example, we initiated a partnership to enhance clinical training and education in a sub-Saharan country.
The partnership enables surgeons to develop existing laparoscopic skills, with a focus on general surgery and gynecology.
Participants access an e-curriculum for training on basic laparoscopy before moving to hands-on learning.
The program also provides surgical equipment and simulators, with ongoing maintenance services.
This ensures that the trained surgeons have working equipment available to use with their newly acquired skills.
ADVOCA TING FOR INCREASED  ACCESS AND AWARENESS Healthcare systems are complex and evolving.
Sustained,  collaborative effort is often necessary to remove systemic barriers to change and to develop new opportunities.
We engage with governments and other organizations to  advocate for improved access to essential treatment and add our voice to the debate on key healthcare issues.
Read more about our public policy work.
In FY20, Medtronic participated in the first United Nations High-Level Meeting on universal healthcare coverage, the most significant political meeting on the issue to date.
World leaders made a shared political declaration recognizing that all people should have access to high-quality, affordable healthcare — a vision Medtronic shares.
Omar Ishrak, our CEO at the time, was the only private- sector representative to serve as a panelist at the meeting.
Medtronic sponsored a side event on VBHC and universal healthcare coverage, attended by representatives from governments, businesses, and key international nongovernmental organizations.
We also held one-to-one meetings with government officials to advance public-private partnerships aimed at expanding healthcare access.
>     ADDING   V ALUE TO  SOCIETY>   GL OBAL  HEAL THCARE ACCESSEmpower Health enables clinicians  and providers to manage a cohort of hypertensive or diabetic patients remotely, extending the reach of the health system directly into the community.
The program has resulted in improved efficiency and effectiveness of care.
Location: Ghana and KenyaFY20 HIGHLIGHT  The past year saw significant scaling of the Afya Dumu public-private partnership in Kenya.
The project leverages the Empower Health technology and model of care to manage large cohorts of patients in three Kenyan counties.
It aims to improve patient  outcomes and reduce county  health system costs.
In FY20, more than 16,000 patients were screened, and more than 8,000 were enrolled in the program.Shruti addresses ear diseases and hearing loss in underserved populations.
A community health worker-based service model is supported by point-of-care diagnostics, hearing implants,  and digital tools.
Location: Bangladesh and India FY20 HIGHLIGHT Medtronic LABS continued partnerships to provide affordable, high-quality hearing aids, and began to access the audiology market, including a partnership with Amplifon — the world’s largest group of audiology clinics.
Shruti patients receive comprehensive community-based diagnoses for ear diseases and hearing loss, with targeted referrals to a network of affordable therapies.Prerna offers a comprehensive healthcare delivery model for people living with, or at risk of,  T ype 2 diabetes, hypertension,  and comorbid diseases.
Social and clinical interventions are integrated in a group-based setting, close  to home.
Location: IndiaFY20 HIGHLIGHT Medtronic LABS officially launched the Prerna program, screening   more than 400 patients in Bangalore, India.
MEDTRONIC LABS PROGRAMS IN FY20MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT PHILANTHROPYADDING VALUE TO SOCIETY ADDING BUSINESS VALUE Our strategic philanthropic giving helps us deliver our Mission by serving as a  good citizen worldwide.
Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation partner with organizations to make investments in underserved communities to achieve outcomes and meaningful impacts.
Our philanthropic partnerships build trusting relationships with local and global organizations and engage our workforce through giving and volunteerism.
A STRA TEGIC APPROACH TO PHILANTHROPY  The global impact of noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) is significant.
Each year ,  15 million people between the ages of 30 and 69 die of an NCD, with more than  85% of these premature deaths occurring in low- and middle-income countries.
10   This is compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic, with the greatest impacts affecting the underserved.
Our philanthropic activities are central to our ability to improve access to vital   treatment, support, and care for underserved communities.
Our partnership approach prioritizes organizations that share our vision for measurable and meaningful impact that delivers lasting change.
10  World Health Organization, June 2018; www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/noncommunicable-diseases“Nonprofits, civil society, the private  sector , and governments all share a  desire for sustainable impact for the  people they aim to serve.
COVID-19  is a clear example that together , we  can meet the moment and deliver  meaningful change.
Only when partnerships are built on a sharp  focus on results can our collective  investments address inequities to improve the lives of those in need.” PAURVI BHA TT  PRESIDENT OF THE MEDTRONIC FOUNDA TION  AND VP OF MEDTRONIC PHILANTHROPY >      ADDING VALUE   T O SOCIETY>   PHIL ANTHROPY THE MEDTRONIC FOUNDA TION SINCE 1978, THE MEDTRONIC  FOUNDA TION HAS PARTNERED  TO IMPROVE HEAL TH FOR  UNDERSERVED POPULA TIONS  AND SUPPORT COMMUNITIES  WHERE MEDTRONIC EMPLOYEES  LIVE AND GIVE.
MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >     ADDING   V ALUE TO  SOCIETY>   PHIL ANTHROPYOUR CONTRIBUTIONS In FY20, Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation  contributed more than $105 million in combined philanthropic investments.
We focus our efforts on:     Cash c ontributions — providing funding for medical  professionals and fellowship positions, clinical research grants, third-party-sponsored health education programs, and other health-related activities     Medtr onic Foundation grants — working to improve  health for underserved populations worldwide and support communities where Medtronic employees live and give     Product donations — working with global partners to  distribute products to nonprofit organizations and in-country clinics and to support disaster-recovery efforts     Emplo yee volunteering — inspiring and supporting  employees to give back to communities year-round by contributing their time, skills, and resources Supporting communities through the  COVID-19 pandemic Amid the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, a significant  share of our philanthropic contributions were directed toward a global response.
The Medtronic Foundation’s financial contributions  through FY20 included grants to partners to equip frontline health workers, bolster local response efforts, and support community organizations and food banks.
Medtronic regions and business units provided cash  contributions and product donations, including supplies for vulnerable diabetes patients and vital equipment for COVID-19 patients.MEDTRONIC  FOUNDA TION GRANTS MEDTRONIC PLC PHILANTHROPIC CONTRIBUTIONS BY TYPE IN FY20   FY18 FY19 FYCorporate cash donations $54.9 m $57.2 m $56.4 m Medtronic Foundation giving $42.3 m $29.3 m $34.2 m Product donations $15.4 m $9.2 m $10.1 m Value of volunteering $1.4 m $4.4 m $4.3 mT otal giving $114.0 m  $100.1 m $105.1 m11   Calculated with an hourl y rate of $25.43 provided by Independent Sector.
Volunteer hours reflect hours that are self-reported by Medtronic employees and represent  hours of volunteerism during normal business hours.
12  Row totals do not add up to $105.1 million due to rounding.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO T ACKLE THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC FY20    Medtronic plc total giving $10.2 m Cash donations $1.8 m Product donations $8.4 m Medtronic Foundation total giving13$8.3 m Contribution to China in February 2020 $0.5 m Health grants $3.4 m Community grants $3.2 m Employee matched giving / assistance14$1.2 m T otal contribution $18.5 m 13   Number s represent pledges made in FY20.
14  This amount represents all matched donations, not only those related to COVID-19.SPLIT OF PHILANTHROPIC CONTRIBUTIONS IN FYThe Medtronic Foundation partnered with nearly  50 global and local nonprofit organizations to:     Support the saf ety of frontline healthcare   workers — including provision of personal  protective equipment     Pr ovide assistance to local communities through  health, nutritional, and economic support     Strengthen international efforts, including working  with partners to help countries prevent, detect, and respond to COVID-Medtronic donated:      Ventilators, respiratory filters, and pulse oximeters  in response to the initial outbreak in China     3D-print ed face shields for healthcare workers,  in partnership with 3D printer maker Stratasys  and a coalition of other manufacturers — read more here      Open sour ce design specifications for the  Medtronic PB560 ventilator so other companies could utilize our technology free of chargeFY20  CONTRIBUTIONS TO COMBA T COVID-19  32.5% 67.5% $105.1 mTOT AL FY20 PHILANTHROPIC GIVINGMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >     ADDING   V ALUE TO  SOCIETY>   PHIL ANTHROPYAdvancing equity and reducing disparity Our philanthropic activities are an important lever for social  change, enabling targeted investment in communities and organizations that further inclusion and diversity and foster a greater focus on equity.
For example:     The M edtronic Foundation addresses inequity in access  to healthcare by investing in health workers who focus on improving health outcomes for the underserved.
The M edtronic Foundation invests in organizations  that deliver improved care and economic well-being for diverse and underserved communities.
Medtronic inspires diverse employees to connect in  Employee Resource Groups and Diversity Networks through focused philanthropic initiatives.
Medtronic employees volunteer their time with  organizations dedicated to addressing inequities and empowering diverse communities.
MEDTRONIC FOUNDA TION  PROGRAMS The Medtronic Foundation focuses on scalable,  sustainable solutions that deliver lasting impact for the underserved.
This means our partners work alongside our teams to achieve meaningful outcomes in health and social issues that matter most to communities.
These investments combine financial support with skills- based employee volunteering to deliver much-needed resources along with high-level counsel.
Stacking our resources creates strategic partnerships and supports longer-term change in a way that single, short-term interventions cannot.
Global health partnerships The Medtronic Foundation works to strengthen local healthcare systems and capacity, enabling more patients to get the treatment they need.
This complements and amplifies the ongoing Medtronic focus on expanding global access to our lifesaving products and therapies.
In addition to funding the social enterprise Medtronic LABS,  the Medtronic Foundation funds programs that strengthen health systems and invest in healthcare workers, making cumulative contributions of $12.3 million to date.
The five-year HealthRise program ended as scheduled in FY19 and transitioned to local partners in FY20.
In Himachal Pradesh, India, the government screened 2 million patients for noncommunicable diseases, with more than 100,000 put on treatment and continuously supported using HealthRise protocols and its digital “HealthCard." This demonstrates the work of the Medtronic Foundation to scale successful projects and ensure the sustainability of the work even after initial funding is gone.
In FY20, Medtronic Foundation kicked off new patient- centered care programs for the management of chronic conditions in primary care.
A competitive grant partner Community health workers play  a vital role in connecting people  to medical and social services,  particularly in low-income areas   or regions with limited primary   care infrastructure or staff.
They  often serve a complex role of   health counselor , social worker ,   and friend, and work to improve  overall quality of life as well as   health outcomes.
The World   Health Organization sees  community health workers as   a key strategy to address the  growing shortage of clinical   health workers such as doctors   and nurses.
The Medtronic Foundation invests   in community health workers to  expand access to healthcare   and ultimately improve health  outcomes for underserved   populations around the world.“Often, the patient has no one to  vent to, no one to talk to.
In most  cases, patients want to cry on  my shoulder, get things off their  chest.
I listen   and give guidance.” Creude Mendes de Souza   T eófilo Otoni, Brazil “When patients come into the  hospital or the clinics, they don’t  tell their doctor everything that’s going on.
They feel more  comfortable telling us, sharing  that they don’t have food or transportation to get to the  doctor or have other personal  problems.
We get to know what  they need on a personal level and  we can help them.” Tiffany Barnes  Minneapolis,  Minnesota, United StatesINVESTING IN  COMMUNITY HEAL TH WORKERS CASE   STUDY DEEPENING OUR COMMITMENT  TO ACTION:  CONVERSA TION, PARTNERSHIPS, CONTRIBUTIONS The Medtronic Foundation and employees engaged  together for greater understanding of social justice and the impacts on Black lives.
The Foundation committed $16 million to support Black and/or social justice organizations.
This commitment  was complemented by inspired action.
During  our first Day of Action for Racial Equity Progress, we extended a  2:1 employee match giving effort, paired with virtual volunteerism worldwide, resulting in the Foundation matching more  than $211,000 and nearly 2,000 employees across 24 countries volunteering 3,825 hours.
selection process resulted in partnerships in three U.S. states and in India, Bangladesh, South Africa, Kenya,and Uganda.
Medtronic Foundation uses a data-driven selection process to invest deeper in a smaller group of partners.
Incremental financing based on milestones enables methods to be adapted based on what does and does not work.
At all sites, programs are pivoting in response to COVID-19 to offer remote patient monitoring and virtual visits for more than 6,000 high-risk, vulnerable patients.
HeartRescue measures and improves care for sudden  cardiac arrest (SCA) and certain types of heart attacks.
HeartRescue United States currently partners with 18 U.S. states, while HeartRescue Global ended its final full year of implementation in Brazil, China, and India, with results expected in FY21.
In the United States, HeartRescue partners supported nearly 100,000 SCAs, a 30% increase since the program began.
Across the program’s global sites, partners treated approximately 2,000 STEMIs and assessed them for quality of care in the patient registries.
15   S TEMI (ST -Elevation Myocardial Infarcation) is a serious type of heart attach in  which one of the heart's major arteries is blocked.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >     ADDING   V ALUE TO  SOCIETY>   PHIL ANTHROPYRHD Action works to end rheumatic heart disease  (RHD) in vulnerable populations.
Approximately 320,000 people lose their life to this preventable disease each year , and 80% of the world’s population continues to be at risk.
16 In FY20, RHD Action concluded work in T anzania,  taking a holistic approach to stopping the spread of RHD through education, screening, referral, medical worker training, clinical support, and advocacy.
The World Health Organization will require member countries to review global progress on RHD at its annual Assembly in May 2021.
EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING The Medtronic Foundation offers a number of ways Medtronic employees can give back to their communities through volunteering and/or giving, including:     Mat ched Giving — The Medtronic Foundation matches  Medtronic employee and retiree donations made to any eligible nonprofit up to $5,    Volunteer Grants — When employees reach 25  volunteer hours in a calendar year with an eligible nonprofit, that organization will receive a $500 grant       Skilled S ervice — The Medtronic Foundation curates  skills-based volunteerism through programs like  the Global Innovation Fellows     Project 6 — The annual kickoff in June for 365 days of  giving back to causes that mean the most to Medtronic employees       Year-Round Volunteerism — The Medtronic  Foundation offers a variety of year-round opportunities to engage employees in their desire to give back, this includes responding to natural disasters 16     Carapetis JR.
Rheumatic Heart Disease in Developing Countries.
N Engl J Med 2007; 357:439-441.
https:/ /www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp078039.
Aug.
2, 2007.
Accessed Sept.
6, 2018.In Bangalore, India, infrastructure development  — including healthcare access and traffic-free, safe roads — has not kept pace with the rapidly expanding population, limiting access to vital care for some patients.
HeartRescue India provides localized solutions to address specific challenges to the cardiovascular care pathway, one of which is reaching emergency patients quickly through the busy, narrow streets of  the city.
When someone has a sudden cardiac incident,  HeartRescue India will deploy a trained first responder on a scooter .
Each first responder carries an electrocardiogram (ECG) machine and a defibrillator .
On arrival, the responder can transmit ECG results directly to the hospital and, if needed, treat the patient on the scene.
The goal is to provide lifesaving care rapidly and treat the patient until an ambulance arrives, which often takes longer to navigate the crowded Bangalore streets.
The next steps are to expand the program and to  ensure rapid response for more cardiac patients, ultimately saving more lives.
HeartRescue India is working with a cohort of Medtronic Foundation Global Innovation Fellows, utilizing the skills and experience of Medtronic employees to explore options for scaling this and other initiatives.IMPROVING  OUTCOMES FOR CARDIAC PA TIENTS  IN INDIACASE   STUDY 30EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT   FY18 FY19 FYProject Volunteers 20,952 17,371 14,Countries 52 47 Employee-led projects 512 493 Project 6 volunteer hours1758,535 60,246 - T otal volunteer hours17- - 170,Volunteer grants Volunteer grants 1,154 1,409 1,Volunteer grants ($ raised) $577,000 $704,500 $635,Global matching grants Medtronic Foundation match of employee contributions18$14.5 m $6.6 m $8.1 m 17      In FY20, w e began measuring total year-round volunteering hours rather than those specific to Project 6 .
We did not track volunteer hours outside of Project 6   in FY18 or FY19.
18   M edtronic Foundation Matches are usually made on a 1:1 basis up to $5,000.
As a result, matches are not the same amount as employee contributions.
In response   to the COVID-19 crisis, Medtronic Foundation Matches were increased to 2:1 from April 1 to April 24, 2020 in FY20, with this increase continuing into FY21.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >     ADDING   V ALUE TO  SOCIETY>   PHIL ANTHROPYThe Medtronic Foundation Global Innovation  Fellows program matches the skills of Medtronic employees with nonprofits currently receiving Foundation grants.
Combining funding with expertise helps drive lasting outcomes for underserved communities.
The nonprofits draw on the skills of Medtronic  employees to help solve challenges the nonprofits often don’t have the capacity or resources to tackle on their own — including business-model expansion, technology development, and overall program sustainability.
Meanwhile, Medtronic employees gain the opportunity to put their skills to use while giving back in a meaningful way.
Bringing these two components together ensures that we reach better outcomes for those in need.
In FY20, 30 Global Innovation Fellows participated in  programs in three countries:      Expanding ac cess to care for patients in India     Impr oving care coordination for chronic disease  management in Minnesota, United States     Help str engthen public-private partnerships in  Ireland that provide societal value Since 2013, there have been more than 130  Global Innovation Fellows.
GLOBAL  INNOVA TION FELLOWSCASE   STUDYDISASTER RESPONSE Natural disasters, pandemics, and extreme weather  continue to impact the health of communities around the world.
In response to these events, Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation focus on building long-term partnerships with local and global organizations that can aid in recovery.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we took  immediate action to safeguard our employees who support our community, such as:     Implementing saf ety measures for employees that  could not work from home and making financial and well-being resources available to all employees      Establishing partnerships between the Medtronic  Foundation and nearly 50 local community organizations and food banks to provide critical resources and assistance to underserved populations worldwide Read more about our response to COVID-19 and how we prepare our business to respond to natural disasters and other crises.
Paid time off for volunteering Medtronic employees can take five days of paid time off each year to support relief and recovery efforts by volunteering with nonprofits and nongovernmental organizations.
The Medtronic Foundation organizes weeklong, hands- on volunteering opportunities to rebuild impacted communities.
For example, earlier in FY20, seven Medtronic colleagues spent a week working with a global nonprofit to help rebuild in the town of Salinas del Marqués in Mexico, following a devastating 8.2 magnitude earthquake two years prior .When their own communities are struck by disaster , Medtronic employees can seek assistance from the Medtronic Employee Emergency Assistance Fund.
Grants The Medtronic Foundation distributes grants to  enable fast, strategic response to disaster .
It works  with organizations to preposition suppliers and build  staff capacity.MEDTRONIC  FOUNDA TION DISASTER RELIEF  CONTRIBUTIONS Contributions vary year-on-year  depending on the number and nature of disasters requiring response.
FY20 figur e includes contribution  of $8.3 million in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.CONTRIBUTIONS  $ Million 2.910.5.FY18 FY19 FY20VIRTUAL VOLUNTEERISM:   SOCIAL IMPACT DURING COVID-19  In light of the COVID-19 crisis, the Medtronic  Foundation redesigned its approach to giving back, and beginning in FY21 will offer virtual volunteering opportunities to Medtronic employees.
This will include Volunteer Power Hours,   where employees can devote an hour of their time to take simple actions of support.
Virtual volunteering offers a way for Medtronic employees to continue to give back to their communities in a safe and meaningful way.
MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT THE ECONOMIC  IMPACT OF  OUR BUSINESSADDING VALUE TO SOCIETY ADDING BUSINESS VALUE The impact of our business extends beyond our products and therapies.
As a large global company, we contribute to the economic prosperity of the employees, suppliers, and wider communities that are essential to our continued business success.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The COVID-19 crisis presents economic challenges for companies everywhere.
It has led us to reaffirm our Mission, facilitated by new partnerships and innovations.
Our FY20 fourth quarter revenue was negatively impacted as a result of a reduction in sales, yet we continued to increase our dividend per share to investors.
We are emerging from the pandemic with a renewed sense of purpose, and in a strong financial position in which to continue investing in our pipeline and employees.
Our revenue-growth strategy remains centered on innovation.
We prioritize delivering  on our technology pipeline, while scaling and accelerating our market presence and competitiveness through our focus on globalization.
>      ADDING VALUE   T O SOCIETY>   THE E CONOMIC  IMPACT OF BUSINESS WE REMAIN IN THE S&P 500  DIVIDEND ARISTOCRA TS INDEX, MARKING OUR RD YEAR OF  DIVIDEND INCREASES $28.9 b NET SALES $4.7 b EMERGING   MARKET  NET SALES59% OF FREE  CASH FLOW  RETURNED TO  SHAREHOLDERSECONOMIC   HIGHLIGHTS FY20MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >     ADDING   V ALUE TO  SOCIETYIn FY20, our net sales were $28.9 billion.
Our total   company revenue decreased 5.4%, or 4.2% on an organic basis, with the decline driven by the significant decrease in sales in our fourth quarter due to the pandemic.
Our emerging market sales grew by 2.8% organic, totaling approximately $4.7 billion.
We continue to find new opportunities for increasing access to our products  and therapies in these markets through a combination  of partnerships, localized research and development  (R&D) and manufacturing, and optimization of our distribution channels.
See our 2020 Form 10-K  filed with the U.S. Securities and  Exchange Commission for more detail on our financial  performance.
RETURN TO SHAREHOLDERS Our strategy for balanced capital deployment includes a commitment to return at least 50% of our annual free cash flow back to shareholders.
In FY20, our free cash flow was $6.0 billion.
We returned 59% of this ($3.5 billion) to shareholders through dividends and net share repurchase — meeting our commitment despite the economic uncertainty caused by the pandemic.
EMPLOYMENT AND COMPENSA TION In FY20, Medtronic employed approximately 90,000 employees in more than 150 countries.
By hiring locally, we support the economies of communities near our operations.
The talent, passion, and expertise of our people are pivotal to our continued success.
We design our compensation framework to recognize and reward our employees for their ongoing commitment to Medtronic.
Read more about our approach to pay equity and compensation and benefits.
T o support our people through the financial challenges  of the COVID-19 pandemic, we invested in additional programs and benefits, including:     Monetary awards for business-critical employees  working onsite or in the field to manufacture and distribute products to healthcare systems and patients     Measures to help protect field employees from  significant impacts to their incentive compensation, which for many represents a large percentage of their regular income     An Emer gency Leave Pay Policy, offering up to 30 days19  of pay to employees whose roles cannot be performed remotely but who have to stay at home     Incr eased contributions to our Employee Emergency  Assistance Fund, providing needs-based financial grants to employees experiencing financial difficulties     An off er of free services to Medtronic employees and  household family members through the Medtronic Employee Assistance program — including help finding childcare, financial consultations, and confidential mental health counseling INVESTMENT, EXPENDITURES,   AND T AXES We deliver direct economic benefit to individuals and  communities through the wages and taxes we pay, alongside indirect benefits from our business with suppliers.
We sustain this positive impact through continued capital investments and operating expenses.
>   THE E CONOMIC  IMPACT OF  BUSINESSAll employee compensation and benefit amounts are based on actual   exchange rate.
T otal Employee Compensation includes salary and wages, incentives,   overtime, severance pay, payroll taxes, retirement benefits, auto allowance,  and other benefits.
Employee retirement benefits spend fluctuates based on a variable 401(k)  match component, incremental to the standard 401(k) match.DIVIDEND PER SHARE  $TOT AL EMPLOYEE  COMPENSA TION $ Million EMPLOYEE SALARY AND WAGES $ MillionEMPLOYEE RETIREMENT  BENEFIT PLANS $ Million2.002.1.FY18 FY19 FY5,3555,5,FY18 FY19 FY209,1799,8,FY18 FY19 FYFY18 FY19 FY20 We adapt our strategies to meet new challenges.
For example, to improve and increase production  of our lifesaving ventilators for the treatment of patients with COVID-19, we invested in partnerships with  Foxconn, Intel, and SpaceX.
We also made the design specifications for our Puritan Bennett™ (PB560) ventilator open source, so other companies could utilize our technology free of charge.
ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES Alongside our continued R&D spend, we invest in or acquire other medical technology companies to access innovative technology, strategic skills, and expertise aligned with our Mission.
When appropriate, we use divestitures to ensure our portfolio remains focused on our strategic priorities.
Our FY20 acquisitions included:     Digital S urgery — strengthens our robotic-assisted  surgery platform through expertise in surgical artificial  intelligence, data and analytics, and digital education and training     Klue  — brings real-time behavioral insights to our  diabetes management tools     Laser Associat ed Sciences — enhances our ability to  develop innovative treatments for vascular diseases     Stimgenics — extends our portfolio of options for the  treatment of chronic pain through pioneering spinal cord stimulation therapy     Titan S pine — provides new expertise in titanium  interbody implants for use during spinal fusion surgery Our total strategic investment and acquisition spend in FY20 was $3.2 billion.
20EMPLOYEES  FY18 FY19 FY86,000+ 90,000+ 90,000+19   In some cases , this was extended to more than 30 days.
20   Includes acquisitions , additions to property, plant and equipment, and purchases   of investments.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT PROMOTING  ENVIRONMENT AL  STEWARDSHIP Preserving the environment is inherent to our Mission and vital  to improving global health.
The natural resources we all rely on, such as clean air and water , sustain life and are the building blocks of thriving communities.
We are working to reduce the environmental footprint of our business while continuing to deliver innovative medical solutions for patients.
CLIMA TE RISK AND RESILIENCE      REDUCING OUR OPERA TIONAL FOOTPRINT      PRODUCT STEWARDSHIPMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT CLIMA TE RISK  AND RESILIENCEPROMOTING ENVIRONMENT AL STEWARDSHIP ADDING BUSINESS VALUE Understanding our climate risks and opportunities allows us to proactively engage in  risk mitigation and resilience planning designed to minimize business disruptions and related financial impacts.
CLIMA TE CHANGE TRANSPARENCY  We acknowledge the challenges to global business posed by climate change, particularly those that can impede our ability to maintain operations that bring  life-enhancing medical technology to patients around the world.
Adapting to a  changing climate requires us to build business resilience, and we are leveraging  the recommendations of the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to demonstrate our understanding of climate-related risks and opportunities specific to our business.
We have aligned our disclosures to the TCFD framework  pillars of governance, strategy, risk assessment, and metrics/targets.
Our complete TCFD report is located in the ESG Disclosure Index at the end of this report.Health and Safety (EHS) Policy >      PROMOTING   ENVIR ONMENT AL   STEWARDSHIP>   CLIMA TE RISK  AND RESILIENCE MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT REDUCING OUR  OPERA TIONAL FOOTPRINTPROMOTING ENVIRONMENT AL STEWARDSHIP ADDING BUSINESS VALUE Actively managing our environmental impacts and reducing our footprint fosters  positive relationships with stakeholders, reduces our operating costs, and sustains our ability to operate.
OPERA TING SUST AINABL Y  Being a good environmental steward is part of our business strategy.
We focus our  efforts on reducing the energy, emissions, water , and waste footprint of both our operations and our products.
Our global Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Policy establishes our performance management system, which includes setting goals,  measuring progress, and integrating sustainability into decision-making.
Our corporate EHS teams oversee our environmental management, compliance,  remediation, health and safety, and training.
They also collaborate with leaders who  are responsible for policy and programs across our global regions.
Manufacturing facilities account for most of our energy consumption, water use,   and waste generation.
At those sites, we use management systems based on the  ISO 14001 and OSHAS 18001 standards to track and improve EHS performance.
>      PROMOTING   ENVIR ONMENT AL   STEWARDSHIP>   REDUCING  OUR   ENVIRONMENT AL FOOTPRINT 21   GHG emissions intensity is measured as Metric T ons/$ Million Revenue, energy intensity is measured as kWh/$ Million Revenue,   water intensity is measured as Cubic Meters/$ Million Revenue, and waste is measured as Metric T ons/$ Billion Revenue.FY25 ENVIRONMENT AL GOALST o continue reducing our environmental  footprint, we have established new  FY25 environmental performance  goals that will be measured against  a FY20 baseline.
GOING CARBON NEUTRAL Our new emissions and energy goals move us toward our ambition of  being carbon neutral in our operations by FY30.
We aim to reduce nearly 250,000 metric tons of emissions annually.
Over the next decade, these reductions will be  approximately equal to emissions generated by 80,000 U.S. homes over the same time period.50% 20% 50% 15%15%REDUCTION IN GHG  EMISSIONS INTENSITY REDUCTION IN ENERGY  INTENSITY ENERGY SOURCED  FROM RENEWABLE AND AL TERNA TIVE SOURCES REDUCTION IN WASTE  INTENSITY REDUCTION IN WA TER   USE INTENSITYMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT Environmental compliance We strive for 100% compliance with applicable  environmental laws and regulations.
In instances where a noncompliance occurs, we investigate the cause and implement corrective actions to effectively address issues and establish processes to mitigate future risks.
In FY20, we had 40 environmental compliance inspections,  with five resulting in noncompliance notices.
None of these inspections resulted in fines.
We completed corrective actions for all noncompliance identified in FY20.
Globally, Medtronic manages 24 cleanup sites where  remediation is required due to historical discharges that were permissible during past operations.
Many of these sites are from acquisitions, and none of these sites are part of our ongoing operations.
Nine of the U.S. sites are multiparty sites, where Medtronic entities are one of multiple potentially responsible parties addressing the site remediation under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, also known  as Superfund.
Environmental performance goals We evaluate progress toward our environmental performance goals on an annual basis.
In FY20, we  reached the end of our current goal cycle and exceeded  all of our targets.
Progress compared to our FY13 baseline: 21      23% r eduction in energy intensity     36% r eduction in greenhouse gas (GHG)   emissions intensity     32% r eduction in metric tons of nonregulated   waste intensity     13% r eduction in metric tons of regulated   waste intensity     20% r eduction in water use intensityPROGRESS TOWARD OUR ENVIRONMENT AL   PERFORMANCE GOALS 21    GHG emissions intensity is  measured as Metric T ons/$ Million Revenue, energy intensity is measured as kWh/$ Million Revenue, water intensity is measured as  Cubic Meters/$ Million Revenue,  and waste is measured as Metric T ons/$ Billion Revenue.ENERGY USE  kWh/$ Million Revenue FY13-FY20 Goal: -15% -23% change from FYACHIEVED FY13-FY20 Goal: -10% -13% change from FYACHIEVEDFY13-FY20 Goal: -15% -36% change from FYACHIEVED FY13-FY20 Goal: -10% -20% change from FYACHIEVEDFY13-FY20 Goal: -15% -32% change from FYACHIEVED REGULA TED WASTE   Metric T ons/$ Billion RevenueGHG EMISSIONS  Metric T ons/$ Million Revenue WA TER USE   Cubic Meters/$ Million RevenueNONREGULA TED WASTE  Metric T ons/$ Billion Revenue >   PR OMOTING   ENVIRONMENT AL   STEWARDSHIP>   REDUCING  OUR   ENVIRONMENT AL FOOTPRINT31.28.2129.4338.FY13 FY18 FY19 FYFY13 FY18 FY19 FY2010.29.45 9.7015.FY13 FY18 FY19 FYFY13 FY18 FY19 FY20757837 8441,FY13 FY18 FY19 FY205/5 OF OUR  ENVIRONMENT AL GOALS MET COMPARED TO FY13  WE ACHIEVED: 23% REDUCTION IN ENERGY  INTENSITY 32% REDUCTION IN NONREGULA TED  WASTE INTENSITY 20% REDUCTION IN WA TER USE INTENSITY36% REDUCTION IN GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS INTENSITY 13% REDUCTION IN REGULA TED  WASTE INTENSITYMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT MANAGING GHG EMISSIONS   AND ENERGY USE From FY13 to FY20, our global energy strategy focused  on reducing emissions through energy conservation, renewable energy sourcing, and onsite generation.
Our new goals to reduce emissions by 50% and energy  intensity by 20% will move us toward our ambition of being carbon neutral in our operations by FY30.
This milestone will increase the resilience, longevity, and sustainability of our business as we continue to improve patient health.
T o achieve our carbon neutrality goal, we will continue to reduce our energy consumption, increase our use of renewable and alternative energy, partner in virtual power purchase agreements, and invest in renewable energy credits and carbon offsets.
Emissions In FY20, our combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions  were 281,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent  (MT CO 2e), a 2.7% decrease from the prior year .
Investing in energy efficiency In FY20, our total energy use was 850,993 megawatt- hours (MWh), a 1.3% decrease from the prior year .
A key component of our energy strategy is onsite generation of renewable and alternative energy, which reduces our operational emissions and reliance on  grid electricity.
We generate 12% of our electricity onsite, including new  capacity we added in FY20.
Our new installations include solar panels, cogeneration plants, and fuel cells.
We also completed the rebuild of our 17-acre solar farm at our Juncos site, which was decommissioned after Hurricane Maria in 2017.
We have more than 40 projects currently underway and expect to bring an additional 67,000 MWh  of capacity online in FY21.PERFORMANCE FYENERGY USE  MWh (Thousands) ONSITE ENERGY   GENERA TION MWhGHG EMISSIONS  Metric T ons/CO 2e   (Thousands)     Scope Natural gas, fuels, refrigerants      Scope 2  Electricity, district cooling >   PR OMOTING   ENVIRONMENT AL   STEWARDSHIP>   REDUCING  OUR   ENVIRONMENT AL FOOTPRINT862.0 851.0908.FY18 FY19 FY75,535 76,69,FY18 FY19 FYFY18 FY19 FY20225.8218.7233.462.961.865.We work with trusted logistics partners to deliver  Medtronic products to customers around the  world.
Shipping — by truck, train, ship, or plane —  is a necessary part of our business that results in  carbon emissions.
In FY20, the Medtronic Minimally Invasive Therapies  Group (MITG) worked with one of their leading  logistics providers to offset 100% of their calendar  year 2019 freight emissions with that carrier ,  equivalent to 7,270 MT CO 2e.
Through the carrier’s  program, Medtronic invested in verified offset  projects, rendering MITG’s shipping with that carrier  carbon neutral.
“This project demonstrates how collaborative  solutions can reduce our climate impact.
We will  pursue additional opportunities to minimize the  impact of our operations.
This project was the first  step along that journey.” –Flavio De Simone, Vice  President Supply Chain, Medtronic MITGMINIMALL Y  INVASIVE THERAPIES GROUP OFFSETS SHIPPING EMISSIONS CASE   STUDY100% REDUCTION OF TOT AL  CARBON EMISSIONS FROM OPERA TIONS T ARGETED  BY FY30  – LEADING TO  EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS  APPROXIMA TEL Y  EQUAL  TO THE AMOUNT  GENERA TED BY 80,000  U.S. HOMES OVER THE  SAME TIME PERIOD IN FY20, WE COMPLETED   79 PROJECTS THA T WILL  CONSERVE MORE THAN  20,000 MWH PER YEAR  AND REDUCE OUR  OPERA TING COSTS  BY $2.8 MILLION In FY20, we centralized our evaluation process for   energy efficiency projects.
In our streamlined approach, energy experts from our Global Energy and Corporate  EHS teams review opportunities and approve projects  that best support our environmental performance goals.
In FY20, we completed 79 projects that will save more  than 20,000 MWh per year and reduce our operating  costs by $2.8 million.
The energy savings generated by these projects are equal to 2.4% of our total energy  use in FY20.
In FY21, we will implement projects to  optimize our compressed air , building automation,  and HVAC systems.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT Using renewable grid electricity has been part of our energy  strategy since 2007.
In FY20, we utilized 121 MWh of renewable electricity, a 9% increase compared to the prior year .
We plan to significantly increase our use of renewable energy to achieve our goal of being carbon neutral.
By FY25, we aim to have 50% of our energy from renewable and alternative sources.
REDUCING WASTE AND WA TER USE Responsible waste and water management practices help to reduce our environmental impact, operating costs, and risk of noncompliance.
T o achieve our FY25 waste and water goals, our strategy will focus on efficiency, minimization, and infrastructure projects.
Reducing waste In FY20, we produced 24,414 MT of nonregulated waste and 2,669 MT of regulated waste, a 4.5% decrease and 11% decrease from the prior year , respectively.
The decrease in waste was the result of reduction initiatives throughout our manufacturing operations.
Our nonhazardous waste reduction strategy focuses   on waste prevention and minimization.
As an example  of our initiatives, our Strategic Meetings Management group partners with event planners to reduce the environmental footprint of meetings.
During the course of normal business operations, which include in-person meetings, this project has the potential to save more than $1 million annually.
Medtronic proactively manages hazardous waste to prevent  negative environmental impacts and reduce liability risks.
Prior to contracting with vendors, we assess their waste management processes against our requirements.
We monitor vendors throughout our relationship to ensure that they meet or exceed our standards.
Reducing water use Water scarcity is a growing global concern, and we are preparing our business for a time when water resources are critically challenged in some regions.
Though our operations are generally not water-intensive, we strive to be water-efficient and understand our water risk.
Through our biennial water risk assessment, we evaluate the impact to water resources from our sites that use more than 15,000 m 3 a year .
We share the findings with appropriate  internal stakeholders to inform long-term business plans and efficiency projects that have the potential to minimize water usage across our operations.
In FY20, our total water use was 2,092,000 m 3, a 1%  decrease from the prior year .
We achieved this reduction through continued investment in onsite water recycling systems and a multisite plant water optimization project.
The FY20 optimization project assessed water consumption at 10 sites with significant water usage.
We implemented more than 20 efficiency projects identified through the assessment, which we estimate will provide annual savings of 68,000 m 3 per year .PERFORMANCE FYNONREGULA TED   WASTE Metric T onsREGULA TED  WASTE Metric T ons WA TER USE   Cubic Meters (Thousands) >   PR OMOTING   ENVIRONMENT AL   STEWARDSHIP>   REDUCING  OUR   ENVIRONMENT AL FOOTPRINT25,57324,22,FY18 FY19 FY203,2,6693,FY18 FY19 FY2,109 2,0922,FY18 FY19 FY20ENERGY CONSERVA TION  FY18 FY19 FYEnergy conservation projects22149 133 MWh/year energy conservation savings 57,660 41,000 20,MT GHG emissions prevented 22,173 15,824 14,Savings from energy rebates $0.95 m $0.8 m $1.1 m Operating cost savings $5.2 m $4.3 m $2.8 m 22   Represents ongoing projects during the fiscal year .
ONSITE ENERGY GENERA TION  T ype of project Installation date Energy generated (per year) (MWh) Location Fuel cell FY18 2,600 North Haven, Connecticut  Fuel cell FY18 1,700 North Haven, Connecticut Fuel cell FY17 12,400 Northridge, California Fuel cell FY15 3,500 Santa Rosa, California Cogeneration FY12 2,500 Mirandola, Italy Cogeneration FY11 3,400 Athlone, Ireland Cogeneration FY09 43,000 North Haven, Connecticut Solar FY20 6,000 Juncos, Puerto RicoSolar FY20 585 Mystic, Connecticut Solar FY20 130 T olochenaz, Switzerland Solar FY18 105 Tijuana, Mexico Solar FY16 110 Mirandola, Italy Solar FY13 220 Santa Rosa, California 23   Site came online in January 2017 but was decommissioned after Hurricane Maria in September 2017.
We rebuilt the site and recommissioned in October 2019.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT PRODUCT  STEWARDSHIPPROMOTING ENVIRONMENT AL STEWARDSHIP ADDING BUSINESS VALUE Patient safety is our absolute priority in manufacturing medical devices.
This means  we focus on quality, sterility, and compliance.
Increasingly, in line with our customers’ priorities, we are also working to reduce the environmental footprint of Medtronic products and packaging.
DEVELOPING SAFE AND RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS  A standardized approach helps us meet regulatory requirements for products and product communications.
Our product stewardship and regulatory affairs teams manage our centralized process for monitoring the regulatory landscape and communicate requirements within the organization.
Our scientists and engineers adhere to product stewardship guidelines when developing new products and have processes in place to meet a variety of product content requirements, including  those shown at right.
We are also prepared to meet the requirements of the E.U. Medical Device Regulation  when it goes into effect in May 2021.
>      PROMOTING   ENVIR ONMENT AL   STEWARDSHIP>   PR ODUCT   STEWARDSHIPWE AIM TO MEET    LEADING PRODUCT ST ANDARDS INCLUDING: CALIFORNIA PROPOSITION Required product disclosures are available at   www.medtronic.com/capropE.U. REGISTRA TION, EVALUA TION,  AUTHORIZA TION, AND RESTRICTION  OF CHEMICALS (REACH) ACTIVE IMPLANT ABLE MEDICAL   DEVICE DIRECTIVE (AIMDD)E.U. DIRECTIVE ON RESTRICTION   OF HAZARDOUS SUBST ANCES  (ROHS) E.U. MEDICAL DEVICE DIRECTIVE   (MDD) MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT Materials of concern There is growing concern about certain materials and  chemicals in medical products, as demonstrated by emerging regulations and customer requirements.
Materials of concern (MOC) include those that have the potential, if not managed correctly, to negatively impact people or the environment.
We require our suppliers to responsibly manage and disclose any such materials  used in our manufacturing processes, final products,  or packaging.
In FY20, we launched our new Materials of Concern Policy  to streamline the way Medtronic manages MOCs. Our activities included developing working teams to address a variety of ongoing product content matters and developing web portals to facilitate access to information.
Innovation is an important part of the Medtronic Mission,  and Medtronic is proud to be a part of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Innovation Challenge targeted to explore ways to reduce the amount of ethylene oxide (EO) used to sterilize lifesaving medical devices.
Medtronic was selected in 2019 as one of several medical device companies to evaluate sterilization methods for the future.
We are evaluating opportunities to streamline sterilization processes and decrease the amount of EO usage, in situations where it is possible to achieve equivalent sterilization effectiveness.
Medtronic is developing strategic corporate partnerships and is engaged with the FDA to find effective solutions to deliver safe and sterilized medical equipment.
Product footprint and end of life We are reducing the environmental impact of our products through product takeback and packaging initiatives.
Where possible, we collect products for recycling, refurbishing, and reprocessing to give them a second useful life.
Our initiatives include collecting:     Nellc or pulse oximetry devices for recycling, reuse,   and remanufacture    MyCareLink heart monitors for refurbishing and  redeployment        Sur gical technologies for energy generation from waste In FY20, we collected more than six million products through takeback initiatives and diverted 250 metric tons from landfill.
In addition, Medtronic follows international guidelines   and regulations for the disposal and recycling of  electronic waste.
We also work with experts to create more sustainable  packaging solutions.
In FY20, our Cardiac Rhythm and Heart Failure (CRHF) Division partnered with CB 2, a  collaborative university-led group developing high-value products from agricultural and forestry feedstock.
CRHF provided funding and research support to CB 2 for a   project on bio-based packaging that would be suitable  for food or medical applications involving products that require sterilization.
The Medtronic Sustainable Packaging Working Group  champions our efforts to integrate environmental factors into the packaging development process.
One focus area is reducing secondary packaging — the packaging that protects but does not come into direct contact with products.
In FY20, we redesigned the secondary packaging for three products, including two products that are used in minimally invasive spine therapy.
The improvements to the spine products included removing an excess layer of barrier plastic and decreasing the size of product cartons.
The changes yielded a 45%–85% decrease in package size among product SKUs. These enhancements improved sterilization while also reducing packaging landfill waste, shipping space requirements for transportation, and storage needed in healthcare facilities.
>   PR OMOTING   ENVIRONMENT AL   STEWARDSHIP>   PR ODUCT   STEWARDSHIPPRODUCT COLLECTED THROUGH T AKEBACK INITIA TIVES   FY18 FY19 FYNumber of  productsMetric T onsNumber of  productsMetric T onsNumber of  productsMetric T ons Nellcor sensors Remanufactured 4,611,840 99.71245,037,000 114.3 1,782,368 40.Recycled - - - - 3,950,200 87.MyCareLink monitors Refurbished and redeployed 28,000 31.9 60,000 68.3 75,000 85.Advanced Energy Project   Zero Collections Program for  Surgical T echnology Energy from waste incineration- - 396,442 32.8 341,331 40.Annual totals 4,639,840 131.61 5,493,442 215.4 6,148,899 253.24    Data has been restated from our 2018 Integrated Performance Report.
IN FY20, WE COLLECTED  MORE THAN SIX MILLION PRODUCTS THROUGH T AKEBACK INITIA TIVES AND DIVERTED 250 METRIC TONS FROM LANDFILL.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT SUPPORTING  A GLOBAL WORKFORCE Our 90,000+ employees deliver on our Mission every day.
We strive to be the employer of choice for the best and brightest global talent where they can grow and develop fulfilling careers.
We aspire to create a truly inclusive, diverse, and equitable workplace that fosters innovation and creativity, and where  every employee feels a sense of belonging and well-being.
INCLUSION, DIVERSITY , AND EQUITY    DEVELOPMENT AND ENGAGEMENT    HEAL TH AND WELL -BEING    COMPENSA TION, BENEFITS, AND RECOGNITIONMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT INCLUSION,  DIVERSITY ,  AND EQUITYSUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE ADDING BUSINESS VALUE An inclusive workplace, made stronger through the power of its diversity and a  commitment to equity, shapes and strengthens our workplace culture.
It drives  innovation and creativity, and ultimately helps us to better meet global health needs  and fulfill our Mission.
A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO INCLUSION, DIVERSITY , AND EQUITY Our unwavering commitment to inclusion and diversity has been, and continues to be, deeply rooted in our Mission and is clearly understood by our leadership as a critical business strategy.
T oday, more than ever , we know that an inclusive workplace, where all employees feel valued, respected, and are fairly treated is a necessary component of our employee value proposition.
Our performance in the social arena, including the environment we create for employees and our support of community partners, is at the core of our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) strategy and will remain a focus as we evolve and grow.
>   SUPPOR TING   A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE>   INCL USION,  DIVERSITY ,  AND EQUITY 23% OF U.S.   MANAGEMENT  IS ETHNICALL Y  DIVERSE50% OF OUR  GLOBAL  WORKFORCE  ARE WOMEN EMPLOYEE  RESOURCE GROUPS WITH 22,000+  EMPLOYEES 100% GENDER PAY EQUITY in many countries, including the U.S., and   99% gender pay equity for employees globally.
In the U.S. we also achieved 99% ethnicity  pay equity39% OF OUR   GLOBAL  MANAGEMENT ARE WOMEN 37% OF OUR U.S. WORKFORCE  IS ETHNICALL Y  DIVERSETHE NUMBERS:MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   SUPPOR TING   A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE>   INCL USION,  DIVERSITY ,  AND EQUITYBUILDING A CUL TURE OF INCLUSION We are a stronger , better company when we foster an  inclusive workplace where employees can be their best selves, share their unique perspectives, and help us  deliver technologies, services, and solutions that serve diverse patients.
By creating an environment that embraces and celebrates individual identities and backgrounds, we nurture a healthy Medtronic community that truly reflects the world in which we live and work.
Our culture of inclusion enriches the work experience  for employees and enhances our ability to employ world-class talent whose ideas fuel meaningful innovation.
In FY19, we focused our inclusion and diversity (I&D) efforts  across three strategic imperatives:     Cr eating truly inclusive work environments across our  global footprint for employees to thrive and bring their best selves to work every day      Closing the div ersity gap at all levels of the organization  to mirror the communities that we serve and attract the best and brightest talent all over the world     Doing our part in building ec onomic stability within  our communities through a robust supplier diversity program and community partnerships.
We have a clear path forward for achieving these imperatives.
In FY21 and into FY22 we will advance our  I&D strategy by:     Linking I&D goals with c ompensation and advancement  opportunities for all people managers     Establishing diverse representation goals that are  equitable and locally relevant by region     Requiring training for all managers to eliminate bias   and microaggressions, and foster inclusive behaviors  and ally-ship    Int egrating proactive retention and inclusion  mechanisms to help foster career growth at Medtronic     Incr easing manager capabilities and accountability by  setting clear expectations on their role for advancing  our I&D goals  A commitment to inclusion at every level  We actively engage employees in building a culture of inclusion through our five Diversity Networks, which are described in the graphic to the right.
Closely aligned to our business strategies, these Networks are dedicated to helping employees succeed professionally and personally.
The Networks are open to all employees with the aim of introducing others to diverse perspectives and encouraging ally-ship.
A chairperson, identified by our CEO and chief human  resources officer , and a sponsor from our Executive Committee lead each Network.
T o help Networks make measurable progress, our CEO spends a full day every quarter meeting with Network leaders to assess their impact, review strategies, and provide support.
These  full-day reviews have the same rigor and time commitment as quarterly business reviews and are driven by the Network’s Executive Committee sponsors and chairs.
Medtronic employee resource groups (ERGs) are   employee-led affinity groups that provide career  development and networking opportunities for members and strengthen ties between employees of many   different backgrounds, cultures, and interests.
In FY20,   there were 12 ERGs across 65 countries with more   than 22,000 members.
One way we gauge the effectiveness of our inclusion  efforts is through our annual Organizational Health Survey.
Across our last four surveys, the number of women reporting that they feel they belong at Medtronic increased from 79% to 83%, while U.S. ethnically diverse MEDTRONIC  DIVERSITY NETWORKS Our Networks play a  critical role in our ability to:     Attract and retain a  diverse workforce     De velop and advance  the careers of ethnically diverse employees, women, and LGBTQ+      Establish Medtronic  as an employer of choice for diverse talent     Provide a network  and community to increase inclusion and feeling of belongingGLOBAL     MEDTRONIC   WOMEN’S  NETWORK     PRIDE NETWORK U.S.      AFRICAN DESCENT  NETWORK     HISPANIC LA TINO NETWORK      ASIAN IMPACT  @ MEDTRONIC ACROSS   OUR LAST FOUR EMPLOYEE SURVEYS:Women reporting   that they feel they  belong at Medtronic increased from 79% TO 83%U.S. ethnically diverse talent reporting that they feel they belong at Medtronic increased from 75% TO 79%Medtronic has a long history of recruiting,  training, hiring, and supporting military veterans,  whose unique experiences and skill sets enrich  our workforce.
More than 1,200 U.S.-based Medtronic employees  are military veterans.
In FY20, the Medtronic  Veterans Employee Resource Group celebrated our  recognition as a Beyond the Y ellow Ribbon company by the state of Minnesota.
The achievement is  the culmination of a three-year effort to assess  and enhance our support of veterans through a  comprehensive action plan.
The award indicates that  we meet the state’s strict criteria for veteran support  in areas such as company leadership, HR recruitment,  and community outreach.ENHANCING  SUPPORT  FOR VETERANS A T MEDTRONICCASE   STUDYMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   SUPPOR TING   A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE>   INCL USION,  DIVERSITY ,  AND EQUITYtalent reporting that they feel they belong at Medtronic  increased from 75% to 79%.
These results are similar to the percentages for our global male employees and white employees in the United States who reported an increase in belonging of 76% to 81% and 75% to 80%, respectively.
In addition to engaging employees through networks  and ERGs, we also invest in targeted training.
In FY20, we provided expert-facilitated training for people managers on unconscious bias — the unintended, subtle, and completely unconscious choices we make that affect our interactions with people from different backgrounds.
In FY21, we will launch training on eliminating bias and microaggressions that will be required for all managers  and made available to all employees.
DIVERSITY We are dedicated to advancing the processes, programs, and policies that influence inclusion, diversity, and equity at Medtronic.
In 2015, we established diversity goals for 2020: achieving 20% or more ethnically diverse talent in manager level and above roles in the United States and 40% or more women in manager level and above roles globally.
In FY20, ethnically diverse talent represented 37% of our   U.S. workforce and held 23% of U.S. management and above   positions at Medtronic, exceeding our 2020 target.
We achieved this through programs and training that address the way we recruit and promote diverse employees.
T o enhance the skills and careers of employees from  diverse backgrounds, we offer a suite of development programs.
For over 15 years, our Efficacy program has helped address the unique challenges of diverse groups, and in FY20, 171 employees at the individual contributor and manager levels participated.
Our Leadership Inclusion from Mentorship T oward Sponsorship program, which launched in FY18, provides mentorship and structured U.S. ETHNICALL Y DIVERSE   T ALENT REPRESENT A TION25  FY18 FY19 FYU.S. ethnically diverse talent 34% 36% 37% U.S. management positions held  by ethnically diverse talent26 21% 22% 23% 25    United S tates, excluding Puerto Rico (excludes blank, no data, or did not disclose) 26   Management refers to managers and aboveGLOBAL   WOMEN T ALENT  REPRESENT A TION  FYU.S. ETHNICALL Y  DIVERSE T ALENT REPRESENT A TION  FY37%50% IN FY20, ETHNICALL Y DIVERSE T ALENT  HELD 23% OF U.S. MANAGEMENT AND ABOVE POSITIONS AT  MEDTRONIC, EXCEEDING OUR  2020 T ARGET .The killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis, the metropolitan area of   our operational headquarters, has shocked us just as it has millions  around the world.
Upon deeper reflection, and acknowledging the pain expressed by our  employees following this event, we are rethinking the effectiveness  of our  existing policies and procedures.
We are asking ourselves if our genuine commitment to racial equity, and more broadly to I&D, is being fully achieved  through our approach.
We are taking action to drive equity within our company and for our  communities.
In July 2020, the Medtronic Foundation committed $16 million  for multiyear contributions to organizations focused on social justice and  equity.
It was important to us that these contributions be multiyear , because  driving systemic change takes time and we are committed to being there for  the long haul.
We also dedicated July 29, 2020 as an all-company Day of Action for Racial  Equity Progress.
We engaged employees through Q&A sessions on racial  equity and inclusion and through keynote speakers, and the Medtronic  Foundation arranged volunteer power hours and 2:1 matching opportunities.
During the day, the Foundation matched more than $211,000 and nearly   2,000 employees across 24 countries volunteered 3,825 hours.
Internally, we established significant and actionable steps to drive inclusion  and equity for our employees.
These are detailed on the previous page of  this report, and include establishing executive leaders as owners of our I&D  strategy, setting representation goals, and implementing proactive retention  and inclusion mechanisms to foster career growth for diverse individuals.
“ When it c omes to inclusion and diversity, there is   no room for complacency and there are no simple  solutions to systemic inequities.
We are committed   to playing an active role in driving progress.”    GE OFF MARTHA  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, MEDTRONICT AKING ACTION  FOR RACIAL EQUITY CASE   STUDYMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   SUPPOR TING   A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE>   INCL USION,  DIVERSITY ,  AND EQUITYsenior leaders through data and performance goals.
All Executive Committee members are accountable for , and measured on, their contribution to achieving our diversity goals.
In FY20, vice presidents who lead more  than 150 employees received a customized diversity scorecard showing the diversity of their teams along with changes in representation compared to the prior year .
Employees at the level of vice president and above include an I&D goal in their annual objectives and leaders often incorporate these into employee performance goals.
Medtronic links executive promotion and compensation  to I&D goals and performance.
Ensuring a diverse talent pipeline  We are enhancing our workforce by including diversity among the criteria used to make hiring decisions.
For director and above roles, we aim to include diverse talent in every candidate pool and are working to establish a diverse panel of employees to review hiring decisions.
In FY20, we hired the most diverse group of interns in the company’s history.
Sixty-one percent of global internship positions were held by women, and in our Saudi Arabia location this number was 80%.
In the United States, 52% of interns  were ethnically diverse.
We broaden our U.S. talent pool by partnering with  organizations, universities, and career fairs that target diverse talent.
In FY20, we connected with candidates at 13 diverse career fairs in the United States and recruited at six universities that have historically served diverse student bodies.
We also identified and interviewed high-potential candidates through our partnerships with the Society  of Women Engineers and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers.
T o ensure that we achieve appropriate representation,  we leverage external data to monitor diversity and employment trends at the global, national, industry, and company level.
For more detailed workforce data, see our ESG Disclosure Index.
The women employed by Medtronic play  a vital role in transforming healthcare.
Recognizing the value of their  contributions and future potential is key  to our continued success.
In FY20, Medtronic was one of only three  companies to earn an award from Catalyst,  a global nonprofit focused on accelerating  progress for women.
The Global Medtronic Women's Network  champions our acceleration efforts and  ignites women to lead with a three-part  strategy:     Incr easing the number of women in  R&D functions and technical leadership  to help drive innovation and business  performance     Advancing the cause of women in  leadership through the Network, which  delivers mentoring, career development,  and other resources     Ensuring support and ac countability   from the highest levels of our  organization who set the tone at the   top to drive progress The award places the Medtronic  approach to supporting and advancing  women among an exclusive group of  groundbreaking corporate initiatives; since  1987, only 89 organizations have been  recognized with the Catalyst Award.MEDTRONIC  HONORED  WITH CA T AL YST AWARD  CASE   STUDY“We support our  employees as they  manage their career  through different life  stages.
Our job is to  ensure women are  not walking away and  leaving the workforce  because they can't  find balance or career  advancement here."  CAROL SURF ACE  CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES  OFFICER GLOBAL WOMEN T ALENT REPRESENT A TION FY18 FY19 FYGlobal female employees 50% 50% 50% Global management  positions held by women2737% 38% 39% Global revenue-generating management positions held by women 2728% 30% 32% 27   Management refers to  managers and above professional development to prepare employees from  diverse backgrounds for future leadership roles.
In FY20, 50% of participants who graduated received a promotion.
Of those who were promoted, more than 75% were women.
In FY20, women represented 50% of our workforce,   39% of our global management positions, and 32% of revenue-generating management functions.
As a Catalyst award winner in FY20 (see case study right) Medtronic was recognized for its initiatives to empower women in the workplace.
Specifically we were recognized for our work to close the gender pay gap, promote women into leadership positions, and increase efforts to attract and retain women in science and technology roles.
Our Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) program,  led by the Medtronic Women’s Network (MWN), is focused on increasing gender diversity in technical leadership to help drive innovation and business performance.
In FY20, the MWN expanded the WISE initiative to our operations and quality groups.
For information about our efforts to provide equal  opportunity for diverse businesses, see Supplier Diversity.
Accountability for I&D  T o increase accountability and drive results, we engage MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT Pay equity We are committed to ensuring that our compensation  policies and practices reflect our commitment to diversity and inclusion.
Every year , we conduct an annual pay equity analysis and make pay adjustments when a pay gap is not based on job-related factors.
We have created training and resources for managers to help build awareness around pay equity practices.
In addition, we continue to assess our policies and practices to ensure that neither bias nor discrimination plays a role in employment decisions, including compensation.
In the United States, our female employees are paid 100%  of what men are paid and for every $1.00 a white employee earns, ethnically diverse employees with the same job responsibilities earn $0.99.
Globally, our female employees are paid 99% of what men are paid.
We are working to close any remaining pay gaps by conducting an annual pay equity analysis for each country we operate in.
Preventing discrimination Nondiscrimination is addressed in our companywide policies, including our Code of Conduct and our Global Human Rights and Labor Standards Policy, which also addresses workforce equality and fair employment.
We remain committed to equal employment opportunity.
For more on how our Global Human Rights program prevents discrimination against vulnerable groups,  see the Medtronic Global Human Rights Report.
We encourage our employees to report any issues of  discrimination through their manager , Human Resources, Legal, or Compliance representatives, or the Voice Y our Concern Line.
We comply with employment law by ensuring that an objective party investigates all claims of discrimination.
We have a zero-tolerance policy and respond to all confirmed claims with disciplinary action,  up to and including termination.C ATA LYST 2020 Catalyst Award HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN  CORPORA TE EQUALITY INDEX 2020 Best Places to Work for   LGBTQ Equality DIVERSITYINC 2020 T op 50 Companies for Diversity for the ninth consecutive year FORBES 2020 Best Employers for Diversity DOW JONES SUST AINABILITY NORTH AMERICA COMPOSITE INDEX For the 13th consecutive yearDISABILITY: IN DISIBILITY EQUALITY INDEX 2020 Best Places to Work for  Disability Inclusion for the third consecutive year HISPANIC ASSOCIA TION ON  CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY 2019 Best Places to Work for  Hispanic Inclusion ST A TE OF MINNESOT A 2020 Beyond the Y ellow Ribbon  companyAWARDS AND   RECOGNITIONMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT DEVELOPMENT  AND  ENGAGEMENTSUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE ADDING BUSINESS VALUE The skills and dedication of our employees drive our business performance.
Our  comprehensive professional development programs empower our people to build rewarding careers and help us attract world-class talent.
ENGAGING OUR WORKFORCE  Employees are our most valuable asset and investing in their success improves our business performance.
By providing career development resources and regular performance conversations, we increase engagement and retention while strengthening our talent pipeline.
>   SUPPOR TING   A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE>   DEVEL OPMENT  AND  ENGAGEMENT IN FY20, WE SPENT   $72 MILLION ON  LEARNING AND  DEVELOPMENT 34% OF ROLES   FILLED WITH  INTERNAL  CANDIDA TES 82% OF EMPLOYEES  reported feeling they  belong at Medtronic, a 5% increase across surveys conducted in the last five years22,000+ IN-PERSON   AND VIRTUAL  LEARNING  RESOURCES  TO OUR EMPLOYEES HIGHLIGHTS  FY20MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   SUPPOR TING   A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE>   DEVEL OPMENT  AND  ENGAGEMENTINVESTING IN THE PROFESSIONAL  DEVELOPMENT OF OUR WORKFORCE It is in our best interest to ensure employees succeed in  their jobs and are prepared for new, challenging roles.
Our suite of professional development programs ensures that our employees — regardless of level, location, language, or learning preferences — have access to opportunities to develop and grow.
In FY20, we spent $72.3 million on professional  development and offered more than 22,000 learning resources to employees.
We extended these resources to manufacturing sites and in FY20, 97% of those employees had access to Medtronic learning resources.
We also launched Grow Y our Career Week, a midyear education event that engaged more than 30,000 employees with virtual and in-person activities.
Our approach supports employees in reaching their career  potential while providing the company with a deep bench  of highly skilled talent ready to contribute at higher levels.
In FY20, we filled 34% of open roles with internal candidates, including 91% of open VP-level positions.
Our structured approach to performance management  fosters development, celebrates accomplishments, and provides advancement opportunities.
We require managers and employees to connect at least three times per year to discuss career aspirations, set and align goals, and review performance.
In addition, 100% of our workforce receives an annual performance review.
Through our leadership development programs, we  strengthen the capabilities of our people managers — benefiting employees at all levels of the organization.
Selected programs from FY20 include:    EDGE  — develops leadership skills in all Medtronic  people leaders, including ways to mitigate unconscious bias and coach for performance     EMER GE — launched in FY20, the digital learning  platform accelerates the personal and professional development of emerging leaders by improving capabilities such as emotional intelligence      Ignite — accelerates readiness of high-potential directors and senior directors for leadership roles     Int ernal Coaching Certification — provides advanced  coaching skills for senior leaders to help other employees unlock their full potential     Vic e President Onboarding — supports a successful  transition for new vice presidents, familiarizing them with the business, their team, and expectations of their role Employee engagement Through our annual Organizational Health Survey, we gain valuable insight into the Medtronic employee experience and identify areas where we can improve.
In FY20, more than 72,000 individuals, representing 79% of employees, responded to the survey.
Our overall engagement rate was 77%, placing Medtronic 11% above the industry average.
Our female respondents had an overall engagement rate of 78%.
A key driver of engagement continues to be employees’  sense of belonging at Medtronic, with 82% of those surveyed reporting favorable results.
Ninety percent of employees surveyed feel proud of Medtronic and actively look for ways to improve their work.
Compared to FY19, employees reported having more meaningful career conversations and feeling more recognition for their performance.
However , ease of getting work done within our large organization remains an opportunity.
INTERNAL HIRING FY18 FY19 FYOverall roles filled with internal candidates 35% 32% 34% VP roles filled with internal candidates 94% 80% 91% EMPLOYEE SURVEY FY18 FY19 FYEmployee engagement score 75% 76% 77% Employees that reported feeling they belong   at Medtronic80% 81% 82% OUR EMPLOYEE   ENGAGEMENT RA TE  IS 11% ABOVE  THE INDUSTRY  AVERAGE.
MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT HEAL TH   AND WELL -BEINGSUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE ADDING BUSINESS VALUE Establishing a strong culture of safety, health, and wellness for our employees leads   to a more engaged workforce, higher productivity due to lower rates of absence,  and decreased healthcare costs.
INVESTING IN THE WELL-BEING OF OUR EMPLOYEES As a large, global employer , it is our responsibility to maintain a safe workplace and support the well-being of our employees.
As we navigate the COVID-19 pandemic,  we placed a high priority on employee health, providing accommodations and resources to support our workforce through this challenging time.
We take a holistic view of personal well-being, and our programs address physical, social, emotional, and financial health as well as safety.
In FY20, we responded to the pandemic by implementing a work-from-home program  for office employees to minimize the spread of the virus.
At our manufacturing sites, we limited our onsite workforce to essential workers and introduced measures to reduce risks, including active health screenings and physical distancing .
>   SUPPOR TING   A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE>   HEAL TH AND WELL -BEING OUR ORGANIZA TIONAL HEAL TH  SURVEY SHOWED THA T 94% OF RESPONDENTS FEEL WE ACTIVEL Y ENCOURAGE EMPLOYEES TO  WORK SAFEL Y .
IN FY20, 43% OF EMPLOYEES  PARTICIPA TED IN OUR WELLNESS PROGRAM, HEAL THIER TOGETHER.
A T OUR GALWAY PARKMORE SITE,  WE EXPANDED ONSITE WELLNESS OPPORTUNITIES TO REDUCE  EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM AND INJURIES.
MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   SUPPOR TING   A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE>   HEAL TH AND WELL -BEINGAll employees have access to the Medtronic Employee  Assistance program (MEAP) and the Medtronic Employee Emergency Assistance Fund (MEEAF).
MEAP supports employees and their families when faced with difficult times by providing a variety of services such as mental health and financial counseling at no cost.
MEEAF was established in 2017 and provides need- based grants to support employees who are experiencing financial hardship.
T ypically, the grants are supported by donations from fellow Medtronic employees and matched dollar-for-dollar by the Medtronic Foundation.
In response to the pandemic, the Medtronic Foundation increased its match to 2:1 and pledged an additional $1 million to MEEAF for COVID-19 assistance.
The fund provides relief for Medtronic families around the world, supporting a wide variety of needs, from grocery bills to childcare.
For more information, see Our Response to the  COVID-19 Pandemic.
Healthier T ogether Healthier T ogether is our global wellness program, designed to support the physical, emotional, social, and financial well-being of Medtronic employees.
Nearly every employee has access to the program globally.
In FY20, more than 56,000 employees registered on our wellness platform and 43% of employees participated.
Our Healthier T ogether program is having a positive impact  on our employees.
In FY20, 63% of high-risk participants reported being more active and 86% of participants who are at a healthy weight have maintained that status.
T wice yearly we host Global Wellness Challenges that encourage physical activity through themed competitions.
Employee teams compete to accumulate the most steps, and in FY20, employees logged more than 4.2 billion steps during wellness challenges.
A CUL TURE OF HEAL TH AND SAFETY We apply a highly disciplined approach to ensuring health and safety in our workplaces — from offices to manufacturing sites.
Our robust environmental, health, and safety (EHS) management system has six focus areas:     Setting annual internal EHS goals     Pr oactively identifying and managing risks     Implementing tr aining and compliance programs    Monitoring regulatory trends     Auditing sites for compliance and completing corrective  actions     Reporting progress and continuous improvement  opportunities to senior management The data we collect through our EHS information system helps us evaluate and improve our health and safety program.
We encourage employees to report hazards and near-miss incidents as part of our safety culture.
In FY20, employees reported nearly 25,000 hazard observations, which can range from water leaks to inadequate machine guarding, and logged 471 near-miss reports, which are used to improve workplace safety.
In FY20, our injury incident rate and lost/restricted workday  case rates decreased.
We attribute some of the decrease to a portion of our work population working from home during the last quarter of FY20 because of COVID-19 precautions.
There was one work-related fatality of a  field-based sales employee, which occurred in a motor vehicle collision.
In FY20, we continued to drive improved contractor safety  performance for our high-risk contractors throughout the Americas.
This focus area improved conformance with our prequalification criteria including insurance coverage, written safety programs, training, licensing, and safe work practices onsite.
Our Organizational Health Survey showed that 94% of  respondents feel we actively encourage employees to work safely, and 92% of respondents are comfortable reporting safety concerns and injuries at work.SAFETY RECORD28   Data includes emplo yees and contingent workers.
29   T he number of work-related injuries or illnesses serious enough to  require treatment beyond first aid, per 100 employees working a full year .
30   FY19 data has been updated fr om the 2019 Integrated Performance  Report due to internal accounting and verification practices, including third-party data verification by ERM CVS.
For details, see our independent assurance statement.
31   T he number of work-related injuries or illnesses serious enough to cause  an employee to miss one or more workdays or to have one or more workdays of restricted duty, per 100 employees working a full year .
32   M otor vehicle collision with a stationary object.Candise, a Medtronic employee and a single  mother of three children, balances her career  with her family’s needs.
During the pandemic, school closures caused  financial strain for Candise, who struggled to find  alternative childcare and purchase groceries for her  young boys.
Medtronic provided Canise with MEEAF  funds to help her family overcome the unexpected  economic hurdle.
Of the support, Candise said, “The fact that we even  have the grants in place is a blessing.
I’ve never been  at a job and felt more appreciated.
I love working   for Medtronic.”SUPPORTING  EMPLOYEES THROUGH COVID-19 HARDSHIPCASE   STUDY EMPLOYEE INJURY INCIDENT RA TE29  FY18 FY1930FY0.25 0.31 0.EMPLOYEE LOST /RESTRICTED   WORKDA Y CASE RA TE31  FY18 FY1930FY0.12 0.19 0.F A T ALITIES  FY18 FY1930FY0 0 132MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT COMPENSA TION,  BENEFITS, AND  RECOGNITIONSUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE ADDING BUSINESS VALUE We reward employees for channeling their talent and ingenuity into the Medtronic  Mission.
By providing market-competitive compensation and benefits, we retain  our talented workforce and attract new employees.
We recognize individual and  team accomplishments to motivate our people and enhance our culture.
COMPENSA TION AND BENEFITS Our compensation framework is designed to celebrate the value and contributions of our employees.
We aim to create a feeling of personal and professional security at Medtronic and are committed to transparent communications on compensation.
Our competitive approach to compensation reflects industry benchmarks and  local market standards.
Our programs include annual and long-term incentives that provide the means to share in the company’s success.
T o attract the best leaders, we offer competitive benefits, cash, and equity incentives.
We reward high-performing employees with an ownership stake in the company through restricted stock, and all employees have the opportunity to purchase stock at a significant discount.
>   SUPPOR TING   A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE>   COMPENSA TION, BENEFITS, AND  RECOGNITION SINCE LAUNCHING OUR FAMIL Y  CARE LEAVE IN FY19, MORE THAN 3,500 U.S. EMPLOYEES HAVE ALREADY UTILIZED THE BENEFIT .
HEAL TH AND   DENT AL FOR EMPLOYEES  AND ELIGIBLE  DEPENDENTS PAID TIME OFF  AND LEAVES  OF ABSENCE STOCK   PURCHASE  PROGRAMRETIREMENT  PLANS LIFE AND   DISABILITY  INSURANCEMEDTRONIC  BENEFITS INCLUDE:MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   SUPPOR TING   A GLOBAL  WORKFORCE>   COMPENSA TION, BENEFITS, AND  RECOGNITIONThe same programs and principles govern our executive  and nonexecutive compensation.
The board of directors Compensation Committee evaluates and approves executive compensation.
A discussion and analysis of executive compensation is available in our Proxy Statement.
In FY20, due to COVID-19, the U.K. government did not  require employers to publish a gender pay gap report.
We will continue to monitor U.K. employee compensation and publish a U.K. Gender Pay Gap report in FY21.
See  our approach to pay equity here.
We have designed our retirement, health, and other  benefits to help employees thrive.
They are flexible, affordable, and competitive within our industry.
Employees can engage with their benefits through on-demand, web-based tools and our AskHR support function.
All employees have 24/7 access to an HR portal for timely and relevant benefits information.
U.S. employees also have access to their benefit information through an internal benefits site; the MyChoice mobile app; and Sofia, our virtual benefits assistant.
Benefits vary by country but typically include:     Health and dental f or employees and eligible dependents     Retirement plans     Lif e and disability insurance     Paid time off and leaves of absence     Stock purchase program Employees who work fewer than 20 hours per week,  representing only 1% of our workforce, are eligible for a selected set of benefits.
Family Care Leave benefit  In FY19, we launched the Medtronic Family Care Leave benefit, which provides up to six additional weeks of paid time off for employees to care for sick family members or to support family after a spouse, child, or parent is called to active military duty.
The benefit covers parents bonding with a new child including birth, adoptive or surrogate, and non-birth parents.
For a new mother , this time off can be combined with other leave benefits and incentives for up to 18 weeks of paid time off at 100% of their salary for the full leave.
In FY21, we are expanding Medtronic Family Care Leave to employees in approximately 75 countries.
Recognition We value our employees’ excellence in quality, innovation, integrity, and leadership.
T o honor their efforts, our global Recognize! program empowers managers and employees to reward achievements, celebrate milestones, share appreciation, and sustain our culture.
In FY20, 86% of employees received recognition from their managers or peers, a 17% increase from FY19.
We also have several formal award programs that   recognize outstanding contributions by individuals and teams, with a focus on technology, quality, ethics, and leadership (see below).Since launching our Family Care Leave in FY19,  more than 3,500 U.S. employees have utilized the  benefit.
One of those employees is Heather .
Although Heather knew about Medtronic Family   Care Leave, she never expected she would have to  use it.
But when her husband was in an accident   that left him in a wheelchair for months, she needed the ability to take time away from work to focus on  her family.
The Family Care Leave benefit allowed Heather to  support her husband through his recovery and take  care of their two kids.
During that time, she also  relied heavily on the Nurse Advocate benefit from  BlueCross BlueShield to work through challenges  associated with insurance.
When recounting her  experience, Heather shares, “I do not have words  to describe how difficult those first two months  were and could not have physically or emotionally  maintained both home and work.
I am sincerely  thankful to have had the flexibility to focus on   my family.”  Heather is now back at work and her husband’s  recovery is going well.
More information on the   Family Care Leave benefit can be found here.CARING FOR  EMPLOYEES  AND THEIR FAMILIESCASE   STUDY EMPLOYEE AWARDSBAKKEN FELLOWSHIP The Bakken Fellowship honors   employees who have made multiple technical contributions to the company and to the biomedical device industry.
COMPASS AWARD The Compass Award recognizes employees who live out the Medtronic Mission by vigilantly demonstrating behavior that champions our Code of Conduct and reflects high integrity.
ENVIRONMENT AL, HEAL TH, AND  SAFETY SUST AINABILITY AWARDS The EHS Sustainability Awards  honor Medtronic teams that have demonstrated EHS and sustainability excellence with significant  contributions in the areas of safety  and environmental impact.
GIDE LEADERSHIP AWARD The GIDE Award recognizes Medtronic vice presidents who champion an inclusive work environment.ST AR OF EXCELLENCE AWARD The Star of Excellence is our highest recognition for quality.
WALLIN LEADERSHIP AWARD The Wallin Leadership Award recognizes employees who demonstrate world-class people leadership, including actively fostering an inclusive and diverse work environment and successfully developing leadership talent to enable superior business outcomes.
MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT WORKING  RESPONSIBL Y We are committed to delivering our products and   therapies the right way.
Our high standards for ethics  and quality apply to people in every part of our value chain,  from our leadership to our suppliers.
PRODUCT QUALITY    CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE     ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT     ETHICS IN SALES AND MARKETING     DA T A PRIVACY AND SECURITY     SUPPL Y CHAIN RESPONSIBILITYMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT PRODUCT   QUALITYWORKING RESPONSIBL Y ADDING BUSINESS VALUE The safety and effectiveness of our products are fundamental to our license to  operate and to our ongoing business success.
Our reputation depends on earning the trust of patients and healthcare professionals by meeting or exceeding their expectations for product quality.
A COMMITMENT TO QUALITY  Delivering on our Mission requires us to develop safe and reliable products and therapies that have positive health outcomes.
Quality is nonnegotiable.
We pay close attention to quality across our entire value chain — including design, manufacturing, preclinical and clinical trials, and post-market surveillance.
>   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   PRODUCT  QUALITY WE T AKE OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE  PEOPLE USING AND BENEFITING FROM OUR PRODUCTS VERY SERIOUSL Y — SAFETY IS ALWA YS OUR FIRST PRIORITY.
MEDTRONIC   OPERA TING  SYSTEM  (MOS) SUPPLIER   OPTIMIZA TION AND  RISK-REDUCTION (SOAR)FIRST-TIME  QUALITY  (FTQ)  METHODOLOGY OUR   QUALITY  SYSTEMS:MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   PRODUCT  QUALITYOUR APPROACH TO PRODUCT  QUALITY Guided by T enet 3 of our Mission, our global quality  strategy assesses the safety, security, and reliability of our products at each stage of their life cycle.
We monitor compliance with our standards through our quality management systems, which are aligned to applicable regulations and international standards, including  ISO 13485.
Our enterprisewide risk management  process — aligned to ISO 14971 — helps ensure early identification and prompt escalation of potential product or safety issues.
Putting safety first We take our responsibility to the people using and benefiting from our products very seriously; safety is always our first priority.
We launch new products when we have performed the applicable testing or assessments to help ensure their safety, and we manufacture products according to established requirements to achieve quality and product performance.
33  Our Medical Safety Council promotes a culture of safety across Medtronic.
Our Medical Safety Clinicians are internal healthcare professionals who evaluate actual and potential safety issues, harm, and health risk to patients or users of Medtronic products and therapies.
They partner with relevant functions to support patient safety through early identification and mitigation of actual and potential harm.
A culture of quality We expect everyone at Medtronic to share responsibility for quality through our “Quality Begins With Me” culture.
We reinforce our four fundamental expectations through regular communications and training:     Put the patient first    Be c ourageous     Strive to prevent issues before they arise     Hold each other ac countable We use a companywide assessment model to score individual sites and functions for quality culture, identify root causes, and evaluate improvement year-on-year .
In the final quarter of FY20, we introduced virtual assessments to account for COVID-19-related travel restrictions.
Embedding quality in new healthcare programs Value-based healthcare (VBHC) is gaining momentum in health systems globally.
Our quality team works with our businesses on the rigorous development and operation of VBHC programs in partnering health systems.
Central to this guidance is our Quality Framework — designed to minimize compliance risks and ensure a consistent application of key processes, capabilities, and measures.
PRODUCT DESIGN AND  DEVELOPMENT Design, Reliability, Manufacturability The Medtronic Design, Reliability, Manufacturability (DRM)  methodology is a set of best practices that help to ensure quality, safety, and dependability at every stage of the product design and development process.
DRM enables our engineers to perform predictive  engineering — a process for simulating product use to forecast performance and identify areas for improvement.
At the end of FY20, we assessed more than 65% of all new products in our pipeline for predictive engineering outcomes.
These measurements enable continuous improvement and reduce the time to market for vital treatments by helping us to reach our quality, cost, and performance targets.
We embed DRM practices in the product development process through:     Ongoing skills and capability de velopment with key  functions including Research and Development, Operations, Quality, and Marketing     Annual assessments at pr oduct development locations,  followed by tailored improvement plans based on results     Training and certification through a series of progressive  levels to improve skills companywide     Cust omized DRM training for project development  teams In FY20, we piloted and finalized our DRM for Software framework.
This will enable DRM to be applied to new stand-alone software products, and those that have software as part of the system.
Product security Some medical devices are potential targets of cyberattacks, a risk that continues to present itself in evolving ways.
We must always stay alert and proactive in our approach to addressing vulnerabilities.
Our product security programs align with regulatory  standards, protect patients, and help ensure the highest levels of product security and usability.
The Medtronic Global Quality organization closely collaborates with the Global Security Office to manage our Product Security program.
Subject matter experts within each business unit are responsible for integrating security considerations throughout the product life cycle.
We regularly engage with internal and external partners  — including employees, regulators, peers, healthcare organizations, and security researchers — to monitor current security practices and emerging risks.
Rigorous product development processes and vulnerability testing further inform our approach.Among our product security achievements in FY20, Medtronic:     Host ed our sixth annual Global Product Security  Symposium, with guest speakers highlighting topics such as security culture, regulatory interaction, and manufacturer and public perspectives on security     Appoint ed a new Vice President of Product Security to  drive greater enhancements from a regulatory, technical, and process capability perspective The security research community brings an important and independent perspective to our work.
Our Medtronic.com/security webpage recognizes independent security researchers who have demonstrated ethical behavior by following coordinated disclosure processes and advancing product security.
In FY20, we publicly disclosed more than 10 security  vulnerabilities.
Some of these were broad cyber-vulnerabilities with an impact across industries.
Others were specific to medical devices or to Medtronic products.
We are committed to transparent communication on security matters, and we use a documented Coordinated Disclosure Process.
We invite anyone with questions or concerns, or who  believes they have identified a potential security vulnerability in one of our products or services, to  contact us via Medtronic.com/security.
Our product security team actively tracks, investigates, and responds  to these inquiries.
Manufacturing quality We use a set of standardized systems to further a consistent approach to quality in our manufacturing processes: Medtronic Operating System (MOS), First- Time Quality (FTQ) methodology, and Supplier Optimization and Risk Reduction (SOAR) strategies.
33   In the c ontext of the medical condition at issue and based on the product meeting  all appropriate regulatory requirements applicable in that market.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   PRODUCT  QUALITYassessments.
We plan to expand the use of these virtual  assessments in FY21.
External assessments by regulatory agencies play an  essential role in our sector .
They ensure we remain accountable and alert to regulatory priorities and implement changes to our policies and procedures  where needed.
We share learnings or changes  resulting from these assessments via our Knowledge Management process.
In FY20, we received an average of 0.09 findings per  regulatory inspection and 0.17 findings per U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) inspection — meeting both our goals and continuing to demonstrate year-on-year improvements.
PRECLINICAL RESEARCH Before moving to clinical trials, we examine how a product will function in practice using preclinical research.
Some of our biomedical research involves human cadaver and modeling work, animal-related research, and the use of adult-derived stem cells.
Medtronic is not using human embryonic stem cell lines in its biomedical research.
Animal-related research Animal research and testing is sometimes a regulatory requirement for the development of new medical  products.
We use animals in research activities only  when no acceptable alternatives exist, as described in  our Policy Regarding the Use of Animals.
The policy applies to:    Research that contributes significantly to patient welfare     W ork specifically mandated by regulatory agencies to  ensure patient safety or effectiveness Animal-related research or testing we carry out is first approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee.
We comply with the U.S. Animal Welfare Act and other relevant standards and requirements, set by the National Academy of Sciences Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.
We take the welfare of the animals used in the research  process extremely seriously, and we are committed to a respectful, humane approach.
Working with scientists, veterinary surgeons, and other experts, we continually  look to refine our methods to alleviate or minimize  harm and distress.
Alternatives to animal-related research We aim to reduce the use of animals and replace animal-related research with other methods where possible.
In FY20, we continued our work in two key areas:     Submitting r esearch findings to inform the work of the  International Organization for Standardization (ISO) on a standard for the testing of human skin cell-based irritation without the use of animals.
Investing in our corporate research group’s fundamental  modeling work to reduce the number of animals used in future research CLINICAL TRIALS Our approach to clinical trials Clinical trials are a key component in establishing the safety and effectiveness of Medtronic products.
We are committed to robust, ethical practices in our studies, delivered by our team of more than 2,000 clinical employees.
In the final quarter of FY20, the COVID-19 pandemic  had a significant impact on clinical trials worldwide, including ours.
Pressure on healthcare systems and social distancing measures led to a number of trials being slowed or paused.
We reacted quickly to safeguard our employees,  34   W ork-step quality instabilities such as nonconformances, field corrective actions,  product hold orders, and CAPAs (Corrective Actions, Preventative Actions).OUR MANUF ACTURING QUALITY SYSTEMS    Medtronic Operating System (MOS) MOS improves manufacturing and supplier quality by building continuous  improvement principles into production through Lean Six Sigma.
We develop our leaders to apply MOS within their teams.
First- Time Quality (FTQ)  MethodologyAs part of MOS, FTQ teaches employees to see the potential for error , develop strong controls, and identify where improvements can have the biggest impact.
Supplier Optimization and Risk Reduction (SOAR) Through SOAR, we partner with strategic suppliers to ensure that risks are identified and mitigated, and products and processes are designed correctly.
Read more about our approach to supplier quality management.
REGULA TORY INSPECTIONS AND INTERNAL ASSESSMENTS A T OUR FACILITIES FY18 FY19 FY20 GOAL External regulatory inspections at Medtronic sites globally 253 217 235- External regulatory inspections globally that resulted in no findings 93% 94% 96% - Average findings per external regulatory inspection 0.19 0.17 0.09 Maintain <0.Average findings per FDA inspection 0.41 0.23 0.17 Maintain <1.MCARE assessments and supported improvements 45 51 46 - Our FTQ methodology achieves up to 70% reduction in  high business-impact risks and up to 90% reduction in certain quality instabilities.
34 Our updated FTQ 2.0 strategy  focuses on building engagement across the workforce, developing targeted skills, and increasing deployment of FTQ across the product life cycle.
For example, in FY20, we extended the use of FTQ to product development to identify early design and process changes prior to manufacturing.
In FY20, we expanded the number of SOAR partnerships  to 42 strategic suppliers, compared to 23 in FY19.
We use the outcomes of our work with SOAR to prioritize work with higher-risk suppliers, where our investment can have the greatest impact.QUALITY AND COMPLIANCE AT    OUR FACILITIES The Medtronic Corporate-wide Assessment for  Regulatory Excellence (MCARE) is our Global Compliance Oversight program to assess quality management  systems at our facilities.
MCARE guides our engagement with site leadership at manufacturing, design, and distribution centers, focusing on:    Maintaining consistently high-quality levels    Complying with regulations    Preparing for new regulatory requirements In the final quarter of FY20, in the context of the  COVID-19 pandemic, we piloted remote MCARE MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   PRODUCT  QUALITYstudy patients, and healthcare partners, while minimizing  impacts on the scientific integrity of our studies.
We have monitored and followed evolving guidance from  regulators regarding the conduct of clinical trials during the COVID-19 pandemic.
In addition, we have developed advanced, risk-based processes and remote monitoring and assessment options to support our studies within  the COVID-19 landscape.
We have largely resumed clinical trial activity in FY21, using many of the approaches developed within the COVID-19 landscape since they can improve efficiency, performance, and quality in a clinical trial setting.
We are also exploring options for using existing clinical data sets to gain new insights into product performance.
Along with our existing Code of Conduct and Global  Business Conduct Standards Policy, we adhere to all relevant laws and regulations relating to clinical trials.
We update our procedures in line with emerging regulations and standards, including:     The E.
U.
Medical Device Regulation, effective in   May     The r evised ISO 14155:2020 standard for clinical  research, launched in July Collaboration, engagement, and data sharing T ransparent data sharing is a vital contributor to medical research.
The more we know and share about trial findings, the faster we can deliver safe, effective, high-quality treatments to the patients who need them.
Along with other companies operating in the United States,  we disclose information on applicable trials to the U.S. Clinical T rials Registry — a database of nearly 350,000 studies.
We publish trial findings in peer-reviewed journals and collaborate with a range of researchers, institutions, and physicians to advance our clinical trials practice.We also contribute to the advancement of clinical standards by working with the following organizations:       Association f or the Advancement of Medical  Instrumentation (AAMI) — We participate in more  than 100 AAMI committees and working groups  focused on domestic and international standards.
Medtronic employees hold 11 AAMI leadership  positions, including co-chair of the Standards Board.
Clinical T rials T ransformation Initiative (CTTI) —  Medtronic employees contribute as expert meeting participants, project team leaders, and executive committee members.
Int ernational Medical Device Regulators Forum  (IMDRF) — Subject matter experts from Medtronic attend biannual meetings and serve as industry representatives on IMDRF initiatives.
We support  IMDRF pilot programs such as the Medical Device  Single Audit program.
Medical D evice Innovation Consortium (MDIC) —   Our chief medical and scientific officer serves on  the MDIC board of directors.
We are involved with the  MDIC Computational Modeling and Simulation  project and the National Evaluation System for health T echnology (NEST).
PRODUCT USE AND PERFORMANCE Post-market surveillance Our attention to quality continues once a product is  launched.
We monitor product use and collect patient outcome data to measure and improve safety and to inform future design.
Mechanisms include:     Our post -approval clinical surveillance process,  collecting data in partnership with hospitals, physicians, clinics, governments, and third parties    Post-market clinical studies on specific products   and therapies     Cust omer feedback analyzed via our global   complaint handling system     De veloping standardized models to measure and  improve patient safety and clinical outcomes We engage with global regulators and industry stakeholders to seek feedback and improve our  post-market surveillance processes.Product-related regulatory actions The safety of the patients using our products is our  priority.
When alerted to regulatory or field safety issues with one of our products, we take prompt action.
We assess the situation and implement corrective measures, including voluntary product recalls where appropriate.
T o prevent recurrence, we work to understand and resolve underlying issues or root causes.
In FY20, six Medtronic products were subject to voluntary  Class I recalls, representing .0045% of product models offered by Medtronic in FY20.
Read more detail on the  FDA List of Device Recalls.
FDA ACTIONS AND RECALLS FY18 FY19 FYFDA class I recalls 3 Open FDA warning letters 1 Open FDA warning letters resolved during the year 1 0 35  This figure has been increased from the four recalls reported last year , due to one recall not being classified until FY20.
36  One additional warning letter was received for HeartWare, prior to Medtronic acquisition of HeartWare International.
This is not included in the figure for FY19.
37   T he HeartWare warning letter , acquired when we acquired HeartWare International in FY19, remains open.
The other three warning letters received in FY19 have since   been closed.
FY20 FDA CLASS I RECALLS AND SAFETY COMMUNICA TION PRODUCT LIST FOR MEDTRONIC  DEVICES FDA Class I Recalls381.
StealthStation Cranial SoftwareTM 2.
SynchroMedTM II 3.
MiniMedTM 600 Series Insulin Pumps 4.
HeartWareTM HVAD Charger Adapter 5.
PipelineTM Flex 6.
HeartWareTM HVAD Quick Connect Outflow Graft System FDA Safety Communication for Human  Medical Products Database391.
MiniMedTM insulin pump cybersecurity risk 2.
Premature battery depletion in CRT -P pacemakers 38  Recalls initiated in FY20.
These recalls represent .0045% of product models offered in FY20.
39   T he FDA issues Safety Communications to provide the public with new safety information about a product.
This includes some actions that have been classified   as recalls by the FDA.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT CORPORA TE  GOVERNANCEWORKING RESPONSIBL Y ADDING BUSINESS VALUE Strong corporate governance, defined in clear policies and procedures, protects our  company while maintaining the trust of our stakeholders, and allows us to continue improving the lives of patients.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS: LEADING WITH CLARITY AND CONSISTENCY Medtronic is governed by an independent board with 12 members.
In August  of FY20, Geoff Martha was appointed to become CEO in a planned leadership  succession, stepping into the role previously held by Omar Ishrak.
Both Martha and Ishrak are on the Medtronic board of directors, with Scott Donnelly serving as the board’s lead independent director .
The board engages with our environmental,  social, and governance (ESG) efforts, which deliver value to our employees,  customers, investors, and the broader stakeholder group.
>   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   CORPORA TE  GOVERNANCEOUR BOARD HAS SIX ST ANDING  COMMITTEES: AUDIT , COMPENSA TION, FINANCE AND FINANCIAL RISK, NOMINA TING AND CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE, QUALITY , AND TECHNOLOGY AND VALUE CREA TION 25% OF BOARD   MEMBERS  ARE WOMEN  17% OF BOARD  MEMBERS ARE  FROM ETHNICALL Y  DIVERSE  BACKGROUNDS OUR BOARD   IN FY20MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   CORPORA TE  GOVERNANCEOur board has six standing committees led by   independent directors, including:     Audit     Compensation     Financ e and Financial Risk     Nominating and C orporate Governance     Quality     Technology and Value Creation Our board has diverse experience, skills, and backgrounds that are essential to understanding and responding to the needs of our various stakeholders.
When a change in board membership occurs, we view it as an opportunity to broaden representation, and diversity is a key component of our director-selection process.
At the end of FY20,  25% of board members were women and 17% were from ethnically diverse backgrounds.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee  is responsible for reviewing candidates and assessing qualifications and character .
Our full board plays an active role in the candidate review and selection process and makes the final decision, selecting people who will steer the company with integrity and good judgment.
The committee also oversees the company’s ESG practices and has featured ESG at each of its regularly scheduled quarterly meetings during FY20.
Embedding and evolving a strong sustainability strategy  requires coordinated leadership and broad organizational participation in identifying and addressing sustainability priority issues.
Our Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) oversees our corporate approach to sustainability, including strategic plans related to ESG performance, risk, engagement and disclosure, and recognition.
Among  other responsibilities, the SSC participates in the identification of material ESG issues and oversees the company’s performance related to those issues, including establishing or monitoring metrics, commitments, and performance aspirations/targets.
PUBLIC POLICY  Public policy shapes the future of healthcare and can significantly impact the patient experience.
We believe transforming healthcare — by improving access, quality, efficiency, and outcomes — will produce long-term benefits for society.
T o create the change we want to see, we actively engage on policy issues that affect our business and the people who can benefit from our products.
Our Government Affairs, Health Economics  and Reimbursement, and Regulatory Affairs teams work with governments, peers, and other stakeholders to:     Realize the potential of digital health technology    Enable technology innovations     Facilitate access to lifesaving therapies and devices     Gener ate economic value for healthcare system  stakeholders     Promote outcome-driven and value-based healthcare      Harmoniz e and coordinate international regulatory  requirements We expect digital health — the use of interconnected technologies in medicine — to dramatically improve healthcare.
Recognizing our opportunity to influence the policy landscape, we’ve identified digital health as a focus area.
In FY20, we mapped our policy strategy and priorities by evaluating how digital health opportunities such as telemedicine may intersect with our business in a world  of evolving data regulations.Medtronic complies with all relevant country and state laws on disclosing political contributions.
Read more about our Political Contribution Policy.
Collaborating to improve healthcare  Many interdependent stakeholders have a vested interest in improving healthcare and overcoming industry challenges.
By working together , they have the power to  do so.
Those parties include patients, physicians, treatment facilities, health system administrators, regulators, nonprofits, nongovernmental organizations, and advocacy groups.
These groups, and others, are Medtronic stakeholders.
The world’s current healthcare systems do not serve  all patients equally.
T o address this disparity, a growing number of nations are implementing universal health coverage (UHC), a system that provides everyone access to health services, without risk of financial ruin or impoverishment.
According to the World Health Organization, countries with UHC in place have less poverty and stronger economic development in addition to improved health indicators.
40   The Medtronic Mission compels us to partner with others to ensure people have access to quality, affordable healthcare.
We are well positioned to support governments as they transition to UHC and look for meaningful ways to contribute to the conversation.
In FY20, our engagements included a presence at two G20 meetings and activities at the UN High-Level Meeting on Universal Health Coverage.
At G20 meetings in T okyo and Riyadh, we convened  representatives from the world’s largest economies to discuss value-based healthcare.
We facilitated an important milestone at the T okyo meeting by organizing the first roundtable for parties from the public and private sector to discuss value-based healthcare.
A pr omising outcome of the Riyadh session was a  decision by G20 governments to have a continual focus and dialogue on the issue.
At the UN meeting, Ishrak, our then-CEO, represented  the private sector on a panel where he focused on the potential of increasing access and sustainability through value-based models.
We hosted a side meeting, attended by more than a dozen health ministers, to advance the conversation.
We participate in business and trade organizations because we believe collaboration is necessary to advance global health.
Medtronic shares expertise and advocates for a more sustainable healthcare model through forums in the United States and beyond.
These include sitting on the board of industry organizations, including AdvaMed, APACMed, the Healthcare Leadership Council, and MedT ech Europe.
40   Ar guing for Universal Health Coverage Report, The World Health Organization,   page 10.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT ETHICAL  BUSINESS  CONDUCTWORKING RESPONSIBL Y >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   ETHIC AL  BUSINESS   CONDUCT ADDING BUSINESS VALUE We require all Medtronic employees to abide by our high ethical standards.
When our  people act with integrity, they safeguard our reputation, protect the best interests of patients, and minimize our exposure to risk.
ENSURING A SHARED APPROACH TO ETHICS We expect our employees to think critically, exercise moral decision-making, and seek support if faced with a challenging ethical dilemma.
We articulate our expectations through policies and principles, including our Code of Conduct, which is written to be accessible, explicit, and relevant to day-to-day work.
IN FY20, WE IMPLEMENTED   OUR UPDA TED GLOBAL BUSINESS  CONDUCT ST ANDARDS POLICY,  WHICH GOVERNS HOW OUR  EMPLOYEES INTERACT WITH  HEAL THCARE PROVIDERS AND  OTHER ST AKEHOLDERS.
GLOBAL   BUSINESS  CONDUCT ST ANDARDS  POLICY  CODE OF  CONDUCT CODE OF   ETHICS FOR  SENIOR FINANCIAL OFFICERSCODE OF  BUSINESS  CONDUCT AND ETHICS FOR  MEMBERS OF  THE BOARD OF DIRECTORSGUIDING  POLICIES  AND PRINCIPLESMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   ETHIC AL  BUSINESS   CONDUCTT o ensure that every employee understands and is  accountable for our Code, we:     Pr ovide the Code in 22 languages so 99% of employees  can read it in their first language     Deliv er multilingual Code training for new employees and  those joining Medtronic through acquisitions     Retrain employees on the Code annually and require  everyone at Medtronic — including our board — to certify their understanding of its contents In FY20, we implemented our updated Global Business Conduct Standards Policy, which governs how our employees interact with healthcare providers and other stakeholders in a position to influence purchasing decisions.
Our revised policy aligns with the high ethical standards established by AdvaMed, a leading healthcare trade association.
We aim for ethical behavior to be second nature for  employees.
We look for ways to expand or improve ethics training each year to drive greater awareness and adherence across the organization.
In FY20, the Medtronic Ethics and Compliance team enhanced the ethics portion of the annual, all-employee ethics and quality training.
We also delivered new trainings to manufacturing managers on conflicts of interest and to senior leaders on insider trading.
T o support employees working remotely, we created videos on how to maintain ethical standards when working from home.
Ethics Circles and Ethics and Integrity Week, our signature  employee engagement programs, continued their important function of promoting ethics in FY20.
Through our Ethics Circles, employees meet to discuss ethical issues ranging from hypothetical scenarios to personal experiences.
We celebrated our annual Ethics and Integrity Week in 75 countries with all-employee communications, reaching more than 52,000 people through in-person engagements that varied by region.
We incorporate ethics into performance management, linking behavior to compensation.
As part of our annual process, every employee must set a personal ethics goal that managers will use to evaluate performance.
In FY20, we invited all Medtronic employees, including manufacturing employees, to respond to our dedicated ethics and compliance survey, which is distributed every three years.
The purpose of the survey is to assess our performance toward our Mission to be the unsurpassed standard for integrity.
More than 70,500 employees, representing 79% of our workforce, responded to the  FY20 survey.
Through the survey we identified opportunities to further enhance our ethical culture, including around “speaking up.”  Our CEO appointed  a member of the Executive Committee to address  the findings.
We will reevaluate our performance in our  next dedicated ethics survey, scheduled for FY23.
MONITORING ETHICS  Our communication and training measures are  designed to prevent ethical issues from occurring.
We are aware that even our comprehensive program cannot completely eliminate the risk of unethical  behavior , so we also proactively monitor our activities  and processes.
If we uncover an ethical issue, we  swiftly investigate and remediate it through our fair  and consistent review process.
The Medtronic Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC)  provides oversight for our Ethics program to ensure  we meet our legal, compliance, and ethical obligations.
The OEC provides an annual ethics brief for the board  of directors, supplemented by quarterly briefings for  the board’s Audit and Executive committees.
The OEC  is responsible for our policies and programs related to ethics, including our global risk assessment process.
Our annual risk assessment process includes the OEC’s rigorous review of internal and external inputs, such as regulatory or enforcement actions, hotline reporting, audit findings, and investigations.
This review is coupled with internal auditing and data analysis to identify high-risk areas for investigation and remediation.
We conduct root-cause analysis on confirmed ethical issues and take appropriate corrective action to prevent recurrence.
The OEC also processes and thoroughly investigates  all reported concerns of alleged misconduct.
When employees require ethical guidance or have concerns about potential violations, we strongly encourage them to speak up through one of the following channels:     Their manager     Human R esources     Legal or Compliance representatives      The boar d of directors email inbox (monitored by staff  who bring pertinent matters to the board’s attention)     Voice Y our Concern Line     Exit int erviews (employees who leave the company are  invited to share ethical concerns)In FY20, we received 972 inquiries through the Voice Y our Concern Line.
Of those inquiries, 84% were mild-risk, 14% were moderate-risk, and 2% were elevated-risk.
In FY20, we closed nearly 70% of the moderate-risk matters and 52% of the elevated-risk matters.
We will investigate the remaining items until they are closed.
If our investigations confirm any employee misconduct,   we take corrective action including coaching, discussion during performance reviews, changes in job responsibilities (such as a demotion), or , in serious cases, dismissal.
During calendar year 2019, Medtronic terminated 194 employees for ethical and compliance-related infractions.
In FY20, the OEC tracked 1,503 allegations of misconduct, compared to 1,192 in FY19.
The majority of allegations were related to workplace misconduct and interactions with healthcare professionals.ENSURING COMPLIANCE WITH OUR CODE OF CONDUCT FY18 FY19 FYEmployees receiving Code of Conduct training and certification4195% 94% 90% New employees receiving Code of Conduct training and certification4199% 99% 99% Employees joining through acquisitions receiving Compliance and Ethics  training within 90 days of the transaction95% 95% 95% U.S. employees certified as having read and understood the Code of Conduct 100% 100% 100% Employees terminated for ethical and compliance-related infractions42 193 200 41  Live training at manufacturing facilities was suspended due to COVID-19, which depressed the training completion amount.
42  Based on calendar years 2017, 2018, and 2019.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT ETHICS IN   SALES AND  MARKETINGWORKING RESPONSIBL Y ADDING BUSINESS VALUE A consistent culture of ethics is integral to maintaining our reputation and protecting  patient safety.
Our sales and marketing employees are responsible for upholding the highest ethical standards in every customer interaction, and we provide job-specific training to ensure employees understand applicable policies, navigate ethical dilemmas, and minimize compliance-related risks.
RESPONSIBLE MARKETING  TO CUSTOMERS AND PA TIENTS  Enduring customer relationships are built on trust, aligned values, and shared goals.
Sales and marketing employees are ambassadors for our company, and we place the highest importance in ensuring integrity is at the core of their work.
>   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   ETHIC S IN   SALES AND   MARKETING WE PROMOTE OUR PRODUCTS BASED   ON THEIR APPROVED USE, AND EMPLOYEES MUST ADHERE TO THE POLICIES MADE EXPLICIT IN OUR  CODE OF CONDUCT AND ADVAMED’S CODE OF ETHICS ON INTERACTIONS WITH HEAL THCARE PROFESSIONALS.
EMPLOYEES   DEDICA TED TO ANTI-CORRUPTION   EFFORTS 12% THIRD-PARTY  DISTRIBUTORS  RECEIVING  ONSITE  MONITORING98% THIRD-PARTY  DISTRIBUTORS  RECEIVING ANTI- CORRUPTION TRAININGCOUNTERING CORRUPTION  IN FY20MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   ETHIC S IN   SALES AND   MARKETINGWe promote our products based on their approved   use, and employees must adhere to the policies made explicit in our Code of Conduct and industry Codes of Ethics (e.g., AdvaMed’s Code of Ethics on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals).
In FY20, we implemented an updated Global Business Conduct Standards Policy with refreshed guidelines for employees who interact  with healthcare professionals and patients.
We localized the policy to ensure it meets or exceeds in-country regulations and translates across cultures.
Our regular training and ongoing communications educate employees on our requirements.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, we transitioned many   of our in-person healthcare-professional education programs to online formats.
We require our sales and marketing employees to uphold our high ethical  standards when interacting with customers or partners — whether in face-to-face or remote meetings.
T o underscore the importance of this expectation, we  trained sales and marketing employees on ethical  virtual interactions.
We also delivered training on how to avoid off-label use promotion, how to interact with U.S. government officials, and best practices for situations  such as clinical research, therapy awareness, and interactions with certified product trainers.
In FY20,  our trainings reached 98% of employees in sales and marketing roles.
The Internal Iinvestigations program, managed by the  Medtronic Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC),  is a critical part of our system for ensuring that our marketing practices comply with our policies and  external regulations.
In FY20, the OEC reviewed 55,000 transactions and interactions for risks.
The review, which included live monitoring as well as retrospective reviews  of documents and sales communications, identified  18 areas requiring remediation.
Of the 18 remediation areas, 12 were fully addressed during FY20.
In FY20, Medtronic was not subject to any government investigations or compliance-related litigation that resulted in penalties, fines, or other significant payments.
This includes fines or settlements related to improper marketing, sales, or product labeling.
ETHICAL INTERACTION WITH  HEAL THCARE PROFESSIONALS We work with physicians and healthcare systems   to expand our positive impact on patients.
Our  Physician Collaboration Policy establishes our companywide standard for employee interactions  with healthcare professionals.
By following the policy, including compensation transparency, we preserve the integrity of physician-patient relationships and avoid conflicts of interest.
Our collaborations focus on:     Inventing new devices and therapies     De veloping educational materials and campaigns     Conducting clinical research     Pr oviding training on how to implement our devices   and therapies Medtronic does not enter into new physician collaborations unless we can verify that the partnership meets a legitimate purpose.
We follow a rigorous process to assess new physician collaboration opportunities and to ensure any consulting payments reflect fair market value for services performed.
This process is managed by our Office of Ethics and Compliance.
RESPONSIBLE MARKETING TO CUSTOMERS AND PA TIENTS FY18 FY19 FYFines or settlements related to  improper marketing or sales of products Marketing and sales employees trained on product promotion15,566 21,236 18,43   Fines noted represent the year the fine was paid.
44   Settlement was related to improper marketing and sales of our Infuse™ product.
45    In FY19, w e settled three matters related to alleged improper marketing or sales practices by entities  acquired by Medtronic (legacy ev3/Covidien) concerning matters that took place either largely or entirely  prior to Medtronic acquiring the business in which the activities took place.
In two cases, Medtronic did not admit wrongdoing.
The third settlement was a misdemeanor for alleged off-label promotion between 2005 and 2009 by the legacy ev3 entity.
Medtronic paid $17.9 million in fines and penalties on behalf of that entity, which was acquired first by Covidien and then by Medtronic.
WE REQUIRE OUR SALES AND  MARKETING EMPLOYEES TO UPHOLD OUR HIGH ETHICAL ST ANDARDS WHEN INTERACTING WITH CUSTOMERS OR PARTNERS — WHETHER THEY ARE IN FACE- TO-FACE OR REMOTE MEETINGS.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   ETHIC S IN   SALES AND   MARKETINGWe disclose payments made to physicians and teaching  hospitals in every country where it is required by law.
In the United States, payment disclosures are published  on the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Open Payments site.
In FY20, we improved our  expense-reporting tool, which will allow us to better monitor employee expenses related to interactions  with healthcare professionals.
Countering corruption The Medtronic board of directors oversees our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption program.
The program is strengthened by feedback from regulators, third-party auditing, and benchmarks against other companies.
We have 214 (full-time equivalent) employees with expertise  in anti-corruption enforcement, including former U.S.  Department of Justice prosecutors.
Corruption is a risk in our industry.
Our Code of Conduct  prohibits personnel from exchanging gifts, bribes, or facilitation payments.
Through our policies, guidelines, and training programs, we clearly communicate our ethical standards to Medtronic employees.
An employee can raise an ethical concern through our Voice Y our Concern Line, among other channels.
We implement anti-corruption training to make internal  and external stakeholders aware of regulations and to explain how to address ethically challenging scenarios.
We cover anti-corruption practices in our required Code  of Conduct training cycle.
Our process ensures that new hires receive anti-corruption training upon joining the company and when employees transition into customer-facing roles.
Distributors and partners In some cases, we partner with third-party entities to distribute our products to customers.
We hold these organizations to the same standard to which we hold ourselves and require them to implement their own  anti-corruption programs.
T o ensure that distributors adhere to our ethical standards, we:     Deliv er annual anti-corruption training that covers   our Distributor Code of Conduct      Support and monit or compliance, including conducting  onsite monitoring of distributors     Assess c orruption potential prior to renewing or   entering contracts T o increase compliance with our Distributor Code of Conduct, we established commercial Distributor Relationship Owners (DROs) at Medtronic responsible for holding our distributors accountable to our anti-corruption requirements.
The DROs meet with distributors to discuss and certify their understanding of ethical requirements.
Distributors must assign a lead team member to manage ethical responsibilities within their organization and set a performance goal related to the initiative.
In FY20, we expanded our Onsite Monitoring program to reach nearly 12% of our third-party distributors.
Where possible, we are also expanding our direct sales infrastructure in specific markets to reduce our reliance on third-party distributors, decrease risk, and improve customer service.
In FY20, Medtronic was not subject to settlements or fines  related to noncompliance with anti-corruption laws, nor was it subject to legal actions for anti-competitive, anti-trust behavior , or monopoly practices.
Our 2020 Form 10-K, on file with the U.S. Securities and  Exchange Commission, includes a description of risk factors impacting our global business operations, including risks related to corruption and anti-competitive behavior .
COUNTERING CORRUPTION FY18 FY19 FYEmployees supporting   anti-corruption efforts  (full-time employee equivalents)217 217 Third-party distributors receiving  anti-corruption training96% 95% 98% Third-party distributors receiving onsite monitoring2.5% 11.2% 11.8% WE HAVE 214 EMPLOYEES WITH  EXPERTISE IN ANTI-CORRUPTION ENFORCEMENT , INCLUDING FORMER U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE PROSECUTORS.
MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT DA T A PRIVACY   AND SECURITYWORKING RESPONSIBL Y ADDING BUSINESS VALUE By investing in information security, product security, and data privacy, we comply with  regulations, build investor confidence, retain customer trust, and respect patients.
PRIORITIZING PRIVACY AND SECURITY  We are in a time of rapid adoption of connected data devices and powerful data analysis that is contributing to innovative products, therapies, and delivery modalities as well as faster research.
It is essential that we safeguard information, assets, and systems in the ever-evolving data and cybersecurity landscape.
Our programs are designed to protect data, comply with global regulations, and maintain the safety and privacy of the people who use our products.
>   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   D A T A PRIVACY  AND SECURITY MEDTRONIC ADHERES TO STAT E ,  FEDERAL, AND, WHERE APPLICABLE,  INTERNA TIONAL DA T A BREACH NOTIFICA TION REQUIREMENTS.
MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   D A T A PRIVACY  AND SECURITYOur Global Cybersecurity program is aligned to the   National Institute of Standards and T echnology Cybersecurity Framework and the ISO/IEC 27001  standard.
Our companywide security policies, standards, and procedures ensure consistency across our organization.
We continuously scan our operational environment for risks and we also assess the risks of third-party projects and initiatives.
We secure information, including intellectual property and personal data, with a suite of physical, technical, and administrative controls.
T o advance data security practices, we collaborate with  third-party organizations such as the Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center and AdvaMed.
We also contribute to global product security and cybersecurity standards in collaboration with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory advocacy groups.
Medtronic employees and contingent workers play a  crucial role in safeguarding data.
We train all employees and contingent workers on security and privacy, so they understand how to identify, protect, and preserve personal data.
In FY19 and again in FY20, we expanded and improved our global trainings to raise employee awareness of privacy and security obligations.
Our annual training includes:     Priv acy and security training for global employees and  contingent workers     U.S. privacy law training for U.S. employees, including  supplemental California Consumer Privacy Act training, beginning in FY    Priv acy by Design training for employees in key global  functions such as Legal and IT , as well as the vast majority of E.U. employees     Gener al Data Protection Regulation training for   global corporate employees as well as noncorporate  E.U. employeesAdditionally, we expect vendors to adhere to our data privacy and security standards, and we evaluate risk as part of our vendor assessment process.
When we acquire a company, we conduct privacy and security due diligence and implement an integration plan that includes training as well as policy and procedure standardization.
Medtronic adheres to state, federal, and, where applicable,  international data breach notification requirements.
As an example, in accordance with HIPAA-related data breach requirements, Medtronic self-reports incidents involving loss of or inappropriate access to patient information to the Office for Civil Rights of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Looking ahead, we are focused on reducing risks related  to data security, product security, and privacy by raising the "data and security intelligence" of employees and continuously improving:     Pr ocesses and technology for threat detection and  response and for identity and access management     Our data security , product security, and privacy  guidelines and training  For information on product security, see Product Quality.PRIVACY AND   SECURITY  TRAINING for global employees  and contingent  workers PRIVACY BY   DESIGN TRAINING for employees in key  global functions such as Legal and IT , as well as the vast majority of E.U. employeesU.S. PRIVACY   LAW  TRAINING for U.S. employees,  including supplemental California Consumer Privacy Act training, beginning in FYGDPR TRAINING  for global corporate employees as well as noncorporate E.U. employeesOUR ANNUAL  MEDTRONIC TRAINING  INCLUDES:MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT SUPPL Y CHAIN   RESPONSIBILITYWORKING RESPONSIBL Y ADDING BUSINESS VALUE Our global supply chain is central to our ability to provide high-quality, life-improving  products and services.
Our supply chain management systems advance responsible business practices and minimize disruptions and quality failures.
OUR GLOBAL SUPPL Y CHAIN The capabilities, expertise, and talent of Medtronic suppliers are key to our  business success, helping us advance our Mission and protect our reputation.
We select suppliers that share our values, as well as our focus on quality, integrity,  and responsible business practices.
We procure materials and services from 68,162 suppliers across 138 countries,  spending more than $12.8 billion with suppliers globally.
>   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   SUPPL Y CHAIN  RESPONSIBILITY DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC WE  COLLABORA TED WITH SUPPLIERS TO SECURE PERMISSION FROM GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS TO OPERA TE AS ESSENTIAL BUSINESSES, SUPPORT INVESTMENTS IN EQUIPMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE, ADAPT LOGISTICS, AND INCREASE PRODUCTION TO  MEET DEMAND.
68,SUPPLIERS IN   138 COUNTRIES $12.8b SPEND WITH  SUPPLIERS  GLOBALL Y$2.4b SPENT WITH SMALL AND DIVERSE  SUPPLIERS IN  THE U.S. AND  PUERTO RICOOUR MA TERIAL  AND SERVICES   PROCUREMENT FY20MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   SUPPL Y CHAIN  RESPONSIBILITYEMBEDDING SUST AINABILITY   AND RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR  SUPPL Y CHAIN As Medtronic grows, so does the scale and complexity   of our global supply chain.
The Global Supply  Management function is responsible for extending our  high standards for excellence and citizenship to our suppliers.
This includes our Responsible Supply Management program, which integrates responsible business practices that protect workers and the environment into supplier relationships, as well as  our Supplier Diversity program.
We ensure our top suppliers and employees who manage  our supply chain understand our requirements through ongoing communication and training initiatives.
Through formal company policies, we communicate our expectation that suppliers demonstrate respect for human rights, labor standards, and the environment.
Now in its second year , our Global Supplier Standards Compliance program is our mechanism for identifying and mitigating the potential risks in our supply chain.
This approach helps us meet regulatory requirements and ensure our supply chain conforms with customer expectations.
In certain regions, we are required to meet regulations   for supply chain transparency and due diligence.
See  our disclosures on the U.K. Modern Slavery Act and  the California T ransparency in Supply Chains Act.
T raining and collaboration We provide comprehensive, responsible supply management training for employees in procurement, sourcing, and supplier quality roles.
The training  focuses on labor and human rights issues, including  human trafficking and slavery, and addresses environmental topics.
Across sectors, supply chains are facing significant disruption during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The measures that governments are taking to slow the spread of the disease, including workplace closures, present significant challenges to already complex global supply chains.
It is imperative that we continue to manufacture and distribute lifesaving products — including those that can improve the health of COVID-19 patients — and we are working with our suppliers to anticipate and overcome barriers.
Our supplier collaborations include securing permission from government officials to operate as essential businesses, supporting investments in equipment and infrastructure, adapting logistics, and increasing  production to meet demand.
Working with partners, we  are preserving the continuity of our supply chain so patients can continue to receive the medical supplies  and devices that are critical to their health.
SUPPL Y CHAIN SPEND FY18 FY19 FYAustralia $100.9 m $80.2 m $67.3 m Canada $132.1 m $118.6 m $126.8 m China $343.1 m $378.4 m $465.7 m France $178.3 m $152.2 m $188.0 m Germany $261.1 m $253.5 m $285.5 m Ireland $251.5 m $230.7 m $272.9 m Israel $86.5 m $52.4 m $65.9 m Japan $182.7 m $169.3 m $176.7 m Mexico $146.1 m $170.8 m $156.2 m Netherlands $221.5 m $256.4 m $252.8 m Singapore $114.2 m $108.5 m $122.2 m Switzerland $178.8 m $130.0 m $251.5 m United States $7,935.6 m $7,932.4 m $8,754.8 m T otal for locations listed $10,132.9 m $10,033.4 m $11,186.3 m T otal spend $11,670.7 m $11,560.4 m $12,835.6 m    Global S upplier Standards describe the minimum  social, ethical, and environmental requirements  and expectations for our suppliers.
Supplier  selection and management processes, supplier  agreements, and purchase order terms and  conditions all include reference to the Standards.
Global Human Rights and Labor S tandards Policy  guides us to conduct our business in a manner  that demonstrates a respect for internationally  recognized human rights and the dignity of all people.
It applies to all Medtronic locations and personnel and to any third-party labor agencies providing employees on our behalf.
Global Anti-Human T rafficking and Forced  Labor Policy outlines our commitment to a work  environment free from human trafficking, slavery,  unlawful child labor , and forced labor of any kind.
The policy applies to all Medtronic locations and  personnel and any third-party labor agencies providing services to Medtronic.
Code of Conduct  is our companywide standard  for behavior , and applies to employees, officers,  directors, and anyone conducting business  on behalf of Medtronic, including contractors, consultants, and distributors.MEDTRONIC  CODES, POLICIES, AND ST ANDARDS   RELEVANT TO OUR SUPPL Y CHAIN MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   SUPPL Y CHAIN  RESPONSIBILITYOur social, ethical, and environmental requirements for  suppliers are described in our Global Supplier Standards, referenced in our supplier agreements.
We communicate the standards as part of the supplier selection process,  and new suppliers must commit to comply before we conduct business with them.
We also expect suppliers  to implement their own human rights and labor standards.
We are active participants in the Sustainable Purchasing  Leadership Council and the Conference Board.
These groups allow us opportunities for learning, benchmarking, and collaboration with our peers on issues that impact  our industry.
Monitoring compliance and performance We launched our global standards compliance program in FY19 to identify and remediate social and environmental risks in our supply chain.
The program focuses on a portion of our supply chain comprising top-spend 46 or inherent  high-risk47 suppliers and contract manufacturers.
T o determine an initial baseline for supplier performance against our standards, we asked suppliers to participate in self-assessment questionnaires.
In the first two years of the program, 320 suppliers completed our questionnaire.
We review supplier survey responses to identify instances  of noncompliance and assign each supplier a risk score.
Of the suppliers assessed, 116 suppliers with high- or medium-risk scores were issued improvement request forms (also known as corrective actions) that outline performance gaps and opportunities for improvements.
The majority of performance gaps identified were related to lack of policies and best practices.
We held one-on-one training sessions with a significant number of suppliers to educate them on Medtronic expectations and provide samples of policies they can incorporate within their own operations.
This work resulted in 34 suppliers improving their risk ratings in FY20.
If a supplier receives a high-risk rating, we require them to  repeat the assessment the following year .
Medium- and low-risk suppliers must repeat the assessment every two and three years, respectively.
In FY20 we focused on incorporating responsible supply  management best practices into the existing new supplier selection policies and procedures and assisting businesses with adoption of such practices.
We continued to provide best practice guidance to sourcing and category managers through individual and group training sessions.
In FY21, we will launch a formal responsible supply management  training program delivered via an e-learning platform that will reach 1,150 employees.
In FY20, we planned to conduct onsite audits of suppliers  that were rated high-risk for two years in a row, but were unable to do so due to COVID-19.
We intend to resume our in-person auditing as soon as it is deemed safe for our employees and supply chain workers.
Alternatively, we will implement virtual audits.
We encourage our suppliers to report publicly on their  social and environmental goals and performance.
Every two years, we assess the sustainability reporting of our suppliers.
In our FY19 review, we assessed 202 suppliers and confirmed that 35% of those publish sustainability reports, 10% have sustainability goals published online,  and 29% had information relating to sustainability on  their website.
Conflict minerals Some of our products contain tin, tungsten, tantalum, or gold.
In the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries, mining and processing these metals have been linked to funding for armed conflict.
T o promote the use of responsibly sourced minerals, we continue to:     Support the U .S.
Dodd-Frank Act, which requires  companies to disclose the use of any such conflict minerals     Require suppliers to comply with the law and uphold  responsible sourcing practices     Reference conflict minerals in supplier agreements and  purchase orders     Participate in the Responsible Minerals Initiative     Follow the Organization for Economic Cooperation and  Development (OECD) guidance on conflict minerals — including surveying suppliers to collect data on the smelters in their supply chains We report the results of our supplier survey to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission annually in a dedicated Conflict Minerals Report.
In FY20, 15% of suppliers surveyed reported a relationship with a “red flag” smelter , representing a 50% decrease in the last four years.
We will continue to uphold our Conflict Minerals Policy  and work with suppliers to further reduce the risk of  conflict minerals in our supply chain.
In FY20, Medtronic earned recognition as a medical device industry leader  in the Responsible Sourcing Network’s Mining the Disclosure Report.
In addition to conflict minerals, we also monitor materials  of concern in our products and packaging.
For more information see Product Stewardship.
SUPPLIERS THA T COMPLETED   SELF-ASSESSMENT ACTIVITIES AGAINST  THE GSS ST ANDARDS FY19 FY150 46   W e classify a supplier as top spend if Medtronic spends $1 million or more   with the supplier .
47   W e classify a supplier as inherent high risk if they are located in a country   where human rights or environmental violations are likely or where vulnerable  workers are likely to be employed.
48   Includes 58 supplier s reassessed from previous year .
IN FY20, OUR RESPONSIBLE SUPPL Y  CHAIN MANAGEMENT PROGRAM DIRECTOR WAS NAMED IN THE 2019 ASSENT COMPLIANCE LIST OF TOP 100 CSR INFLUENCE LEADERS The list recognizes people who use  their influence to help others establish or improve corporate social responsibility programs, contributing to improvements throughout global  supply chains.
MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   SUPPL Y CHAIN  RESPONSIBILITYSUPPLIER QUALITY MANAGEMENT Our ability to improve lives depends on the quality of our  products.
We share this responsibility for quality with our suppliers, communicating our expectations through our Supplier Quality Excellence Manual.
We support suppliers in meeting our standards through:      Regular quality audits based on product and supplier lists     Continuous improvement programs, facilitated onsite at  supplier manufacturing locations      Collaboration with suppliers to improve the design,  reliability, and manufacturability of components and  products      Support of supplier business -continuity management  planning initiatives — building their capability to proactively identify and mitigate global operational risks In FY20, we focused on minimizing product quality risk, improving our monitoring processes, finding efficiencies in our IT and data systems, and optimizing our receiving inspection methods.
Due to COVID-19, audits that we would typically conduct onsite were completed virtually.
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY Diversity and community intersect in our supply chain, where we spend billions of dollars with historically underrepresented business owners.
We diversify our supply chain by providing equal opportunities for businesses owned by women, ethnically diverse groups, people with disabilities, LGBTQ+ individuals, and veterans, among others.
Our Supplier Diversity team, Supplier Diversity Steering Committee, and Executive Management team oversee this program, guiding our strategy and establishing goals.
For more than 12 years, Medtronic has partnered  with JIT Energy Information Services to reduce  our environmental impact globally.
JIT enables  Medtronic to effectively manage our global  energy and water consumption, delivering  efficiencies by using data and technology that result in cost savings, sustainable impacts,   and progress toward our environmental  performance goals.
Located near our U.S. headquarters in Minneapolis,  Minnesota, JIT is also one of our largest African  American-owned supplier partners.
The company  was established in 1991 by Jaimie Aragon, and later  acquired by Ravi Norman.
Since its founding, JIT has  earned an Energy Efficiency Partner Award and   other recognition for their effectiveness in reducing energy consumption and environmental impact in  key geographies.
PARTNERING   FOR IMPACT WITH DIVERSE-OWNED FIRMS CASE   STUDY“We believe diversity drives better  business results.
This includes creating  a diverse supply chain — one that  delivers exceptional quality while also  benefiting the patients and physicians  we serve and the broader communities  in which we operate.
Furthermore, we  gain a competitive advantage through  the product innovation and flexibility  delivered by a diverse supplier base.” GEOFF MARTHA  MEDTRONIC CEO  OUR SUPPLIER DIVERSITY POLICY  RECOGNIZES AND SUPPORTS  10 DIVERSE SUPPLIER TYPES,  INCLUDING:      Small businesses     Businesses certifiabl y  owned by women, ethnically  diverse groups, people with disabilities, LGBTQ+ individuals, or veterans     Disad vantaged businesses  and those located in historically underutilized business zonesMEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT  >   W ORKING  RESPONSIBL Y>   SUPPL Y CHAIN  RESPONSIBILITYSupplier diversity provides shared value for Medtronic  and our communities.
We gain excellent partners and access a broader pool of talent, unique perspectives, and community connections.
By expanding the breadth of our supplier base and partnering with small businesses, our supply chain becomes more innovative, resilient, and agile.
In FY20, we directed about $627 million of our U.S. supplier spend to diverse-owned companies, an increase of more than 10% compared to the prior year .
We recognize the opportunity to expand our Supplier  Diversity program beyond the United States.
In FY20, we began laying the groundwork for a global expansion by building systems to identify and track our spend with diverse suppliers internationally.
In FY21, we will formally launch an International Diverse Supplier program.
An early objective is to increase our procurement with women-owned businesses, and we are working with an experienced third party to identify potential suppliers.
This initiative aligns with UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 8, to foster the full participation of women in the economy, including as business owners.
More information on our contribution to the SDGs is available here.
We also aim to support the economies in which we   operate by using local suppliers where possible.
For example, in FY20, our U.S. corporate office in Minneapolis spent $796 million with suppliers within the state of Minnesota.
Of this total spend, 31% was with small and diverse suppliers.U.S. DIVERSE SUPPL Y CHAIN SPEND BY CA TEGORY49   FY18 FY19 FY$ U.S.   spend$ U.S.   spend %$ U.S.   spend$ U.S.   spend %$ U.S.   spend$ U.S.   spend % Small business $1,341 m 22% $1,144 m 17% $1,760 m 24% Veteran-owned business $69 m 1.1% $133 m 1.9% $112 m 1.6% Minority-owned business  enterprise $270 m 4.4% $245 m 3.7% $270 m 3.7% Women-owned business enterprise$122 m 2.0% $177 m 2.6% $171 m 2.4% 49     T his table includes U.S. addressable spend, which totaled approximately $7.2 billion in FY20.
Non-addressable spend includes employee-related benefits, health  insurance, taxes, and royalties.
Due to overlap between different categories of small and diverse suppliers, figures in this table do not add up to the total annual figures  for spend with small and diverse companies.
IN FY20, THE WOMEN’S BUSINESS  ENTERPRISE NA TIONAL COUNCIL RANKED MEDTRONIC IN THE  TOP 75 AMONG THE FORTUNE 500 FOR ITS SUST AINED COMMITMENT TO WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES.
$2.4b Purchases from   small and diverse businesses $4.1b Economic  production  activity 24,257 jobs Jobs supported at small and diverse suppliers, lower-tier suppliers, and community businesses$1.4b Wages and  benefits $1.3b U.S. federal, state, and local taxes generated SUPPLIER DIVERSITY ECONOMIC IMPACTAnnually, we undertake a detailed assessment of our impact with diverse suppliers in the United States   and Puerto Rico.
Our FY20 impact is shared below:  50     Data r epresents spend on diverse suppliers in United States and Puerto Rico only.MEDTRONIC       INTEGRA TED PERFORMANCE  REPORT ABOUT   THIS REPORTNON-GAAP AND OTHER FINANCIAL MEASURES This report was prepared in accordance with the   Global Reporting Initiative Standards Core guidelines —  an internationally recognized framework for  sustainability reporting.
The content is also informed by the reporting guidelines  set forth by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Medical Equipment and Supplies industry standard and the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Detailed information is available in the ESG Disclosure Index.
Scope and data Unless otherwise stated, all performance reporting covers our fiscal year 2020 (FY20) from April 27, 2019, through April 24, 2020.
This report includes data from Medtronic plc and all its  consolidated subsidiaries.
Environmental, health, and safety data are from our manufacturing and research and development facilities.
Our FY19 health and safety data, shared on page 46, has been assured by a third party.All reported data are best estimates.
Medtronic subsidiaries whose impact on overall data is less than 10% have been omitted.
All financial information is reported in U.S. dollars.
Forward-looking statements Any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those found in our periodic reports on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.
We welcome your views as a valued stakeholder .
T o provide  feedback or request further information, please email integratedreport@medtronic.com.
>   ABOUT   THIS REPORTMEDTRONIC PLC GAAP TO NON-GAAP RECONCILIA TIONS (UNAUDITED)FY20 FY19 FYNet cash provided by operating activities $7,234 m $7,007 m $4,684 m       – Additions to property, plant, and equipment ($1,213 m) ($1,134 m) ($1,068 m)  Free Cash Flow52 $6,021 m $5,873 m $3,616 m 51   In vestors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for , financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S.  GAAP .
52  Free cash flow represents operating cash flows less property, plant, and equipment additions.
MEDTRONIC PLC WORLDWIDE REVENUE: GEOGRAPHIC  (UNAUDITED)Fiscal Y ear Constant currency FY20 FY19 Growth Current    impact54FY20 Growth U.S. $14,919 m $16,194 m (7.9)% – $14,919 m (7.9)% Non-U.S. Developed $9,287 m $9,631 m (3.6)% $(261 m) $9,548 m (0.9)% Emerging Markets $4,707 m  $4,732 m (0.5)% $(156 m) $4,863 m (2.8)% T otal $28,913 m $30,557 m (5.4)% $(418 m) $29,331 m (4.0)% 53     U .S.
includes the United States and U.S. territories.
Non-U.S. developed markets include Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Canada, and the countries of  Western Europe.
Emerging Markets include the countries of the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and the countries of Asia that are not included in the non-U.S. developed markets, as previously defined.
54    T he currency impact to revenue measures the change in revenue between current and prior year periods using constant exchange rates.ESG DISCLOSURE  INDEX  2020   MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX 202069MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX 3 42CONTENTS GLOBAL REPORTING   INITIA TIVE (GRI) T ASK FORCE ON   CLIMA TE-RELA TED  FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURES  (TCFD)EMPLOYEE DA T A SUMMARYSUST AINABILITY  ACCOUNTING  ST ANDARDS BOARD (SASB)  Our FY20 Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG)  Disclosure Index references disclosures for our 15 material issues that align with reporting standards from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and guidelines from the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Page numbers and links correspond to the Medtronic Integrated Performance Report 2020   found on pages 1-68 of this document.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX ACCESS Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Ensuring product/therapy is accessible to patients — once it is available — through capacity building, training and education programs, infrastructure  improvement, attention to legal and regulatory restrictions, and innovations in accessibility such as remote diagnosis or treatment.
Includes efforts to  expand access in emerging markets.
Access, and our related impacts, are relevant for our customers, patients, and those who are not yet customers or patients but could benefit from our   products or therapies.
The management approach and its components (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topic We are guided by our Mission: to contribute to human welfare by application of biomedical engineering in the research, design, manufacture, and sale of  instruments or appliances that alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life.
Efforts to increase access to healthcare are embedded in the day-to-day operations of our entire company.
The Medtronic board of directors and Executive  Committee have primary responsibility for ensuring that we are maximizing our ability to reach patients who can benefit from our products and therapies.
Each business unit and region reports to the board regularly.
Each business unit develops new products, therapies, and programs to extend life-changing care to more people.
We work with strategic partners and   explore emerging technologies to develop innovative solutions for unmet healthcare needs — including conditions that disproportionately affect people in emerging markets.
The Medtronic Foundation also expands access to healthcare by working in partnership with local nonprofits and governments to invest in impactful healthcare  projects aimed at improving access for underserved communities.
The Medtronic Foundation is led by a board of directors that includes senior leaders from across Medtronic, including Geoff Martha, president and CEO of Medtronic plc.
Our efforts to increase access to our products and therapies are supported by our focus on innovation, affordability, and integrated care.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach The accessibility of our products and solutions is critical to our Mission and our business success.
Making our therapies accessible to people everywhere is  inherent in our growth strategy.
We view access to healthcare as a human rights issue and support the principle of universal access to health.
Our Mission drives us to contribute to human  welfare by improving health outcomes, and our access strategy is a key element of this.
Through business and philanthropic activities, we assess local, unmet healthcare needs.We tailor new or existing products, solutions, and therapies to overcome barriers to care and reduce health inequity.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  We develop strategies, programs, and business activities designed to maximize the value of our products and solutions and increase access to healthcare.
These include:    Our range of programs focused on integrated care    Patient Access Acceleration — identifying market-level barriers to access    Patient Access Insights — identifying local barriers to access    Capacity building — upskilling healthcare professionals and patients    Public-private partnerships — addressing gaps in healthcare systems    Engagement with governments and other organizations to advocate for systemic, sustainable changes to healthcare systems    Medtronic LABS, our social impact business, funded in part by the Medtronic Foundation — expanding access to healthcare for underserved patients    Medtronic Foundation programs — scalable, sustainable solutions that deliver lasting impact for underserved communitiesGLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialMEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX Evaluation of the  management approach  (GRI 103-3) Increasing access to life-improving treatment is our constant focus.
The ultimate measure of our success is the number of patients benefiting from our  products and therapies, and our ability to continue to reach underserved communities with new products and healthcare models.
AFFORDABILITY Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Includes reimbursement strategy, differentiated pricing strategies, bottom-of-the-pyramid strategies, and patient assistance programs.
Includes efforts to  create new business models and drive value-based healthcare (VBHC) to improve the economic value and affordability of Medtronic products and therapies.
Affordability is relevant for our customers, patients, and those who are not yet customers or patients but could benefit from our products or therapies.
The management approach  and its components (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicT o increase affordability and value, we:     Off er a variety of pricing models, including volume pricing or rebate options for hospitals, adaptive pricing for treating long-term conditions, and programs   to assist new and existing patients     Off er a variety of price points across a given technology portfolio to match different affordability levels and different willingness to pay for the same  technology We define pricing strategies for our products and therapies considering the value delivered to our patients and healthcare systems, the type and level of service  embedded in the agreement, and the innovation as well as the natural market forces in each market.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach Our goal is to make medical technology available to any patient in the world.
With that mindset, we develop specific pricing programs and policies to enable   that aspiration.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  We leverage all relevant potential communication channels and technologies with customers and business partners to provide detailed, accurate price  information across the world.
We take a VBHC approach — combining products, services, and solutions that improve patient outcomes per dollar spent in the healthcare system.
Value is  measured by long-term patient outcomes rather than short-term transactions.
T o accelerate the transformation of healthcare systems toward VBHC, we collaborate with others and advocate the advantages of this model.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3) Each Medtronic region is responsible for developing and delivering its own VBHC activities, engaging with group-level VBHC councils for support with decision- making, investments, and specific programs.
Our Global VBHC Council — including leaders from divisions, regions, and functions — steers our overall direction and ensures alignment of approach across all VBHC activities.
We monitor our VBHC partnerships on a case-by-case basis — tracking patient outcomes and efficiencies.
CLIMA TE RISK AND RESILIENCE Definition and boundaries (GR1 103-1)A holistic strategy for mitigating climate risks and for enhancing resilience inside the company, across the supply chain, and within vulnerable communities.
Climate risks include both physical risks (e.g., extreme weather events, rising temperatures, rising sea levels) and transition risks (e.g., global regulations impacting energy costs and availability, shift in consumer preferences toward lower-carbon products).
Also includes disaster response.
Climate risk and resilience are relevant to our company, communities, patients, and customers.GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialMEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialThe management approach  and its components (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicWe acknowledge the challenges to global business posed by climate change, particularly those that can impede our ability to maintain operations that bring  life-enhancing medical technology to patients around the world.
Adapting to a changing climate requires us to build business resilience, and we are leveraging the recommendations of the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to demonstrate our understanding of climate-related risks and opportunities specific to our business.
Our approach to managing climate risk and building resilience includes strong governance, integration into enterprise risk management processes,   development of business strategies within our functional global operations areas, and finally, assessment of our performance against companywide environmental targets.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach Understanding our climate risks and opportunities allows us to proactively engage in risk mitigation and resilience planning designed to minimize business  disruptions and related financial impacts.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  The relevant policies, programs, governance, and commitments related to this topic are shown in detail in our T ask Force on Climate-related Financial  Disclosure Report and in the Promoting Environmental Stewardship section of this report.
In FY20, we set ambitious new FY25 environmental targets focused on energy, emissions, water , and waste and also set a FY30 carbon neutrality goal for our operations.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3) We have established companywide environmental targets since 2007, with a focus on reductions in energy use and GHG emissions throughout our operations.
In 2020 we met our latest long-term target and achieved a total GHG emissions reduction of 15% compared to a 2013 baseline.
We announced new targets through 2030 that call for additional GHG reductions and introduce our first long-term renewable energy target.
Corporate Environmental, Health and, Safety (EHS) leads quarterly meetings with vice presidents of operations from our business groups that support active  monitoring of the status of environmental targets/goals.
CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Unethical business practices that violate state, federal, or international laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, anti- competitive practices, and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The risk of corruption is relevant to employee interactions, including those with customers, healthcare professionals, and patients.
The  management  approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicT o reduce the risk of corruption, we articulate our expectations through policies and principles, provide communication and training to employees at all levels of  the organization, and proactively monitor our business transactions for unethical behavior .
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach Our approach reduces the risk to Medtronic and ensures a consistent culture of ethics that is integral to maintaining our reputation.
When our people act with  integrity, they protect the best interests of patients and our company.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  Our policies related to ethics in sales and marketing include: the Medtronic Code of Conduct, Global Business Conduct Standards Policy, Code of Ethics for  Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors, Physician Collaboration Policy, and Distributor Code of Conduct.
Employees must also adhere to the AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals.
The Medtronic Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC) provides oversight of our Ethics program.
The OEC provides an annual ethics brief for the board of  directors, supplemented by quarterly briefings for the board’s Audit and Executive committees.
The OEC is responsible for our policies and programs related to ethics, including our global risk assessment process.
The OEC also processes and thoroughly investigates all reported concerns of alleged misconduct.
If we uncover an ethical issue, we swiftly investigate and remediate it through our streamlined review process.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialOur communication and training measures are designed to prevent ethical issues from occurring, and we provide job-specific training to minimize corruption  risk.
We implement anti-corruption training to make internal and external stakeholders aware of regulations and to explain how to address ethically challenging scenarios.
We cover anti-corruption practices in our required Code of Conduct training cycle.
When employees require ethical guidance or have concerns about potential violations, we strongly encourage them to speak up through the Voice your Concern  Line, Human Resources, their manager , Legal or Compliance representatives, the board of directors email inbox, and exit interviews.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3)We invite all Medtronic employees to provide feedback on our Ethics program through annual surveys.
Every three years, we issue a dedicated ethics and  compliance survey.
These results help us assess our management approach and identify areas for improvement.
Our communication and training measures are designed to prevent ethical issues from occurring.
We are aware that even our comprehensive program cannot  completely eliminate the risk of unethical behavior , so we also proactively monitor our business.
Our annual risk assessment process includes the OEC’s rigorous review of internal and external inputs, such as regulatory or enforcement actions, hotline reporting, audit findings, and investigations.
This review is coupled with internal auditing and data analysis to identify high-risk areas for investigation and remediation.
The OEC also processes and thoroughly investigates all reported concerns of alleged misconduct.
If our investigations confirm any employee misconduct,   we take corrective actions including coaching, discussion during performance reviews, changes in job responsibilities (such as a demotion), or in serious  cases, dismissal.
DA T A PRIVACY AND SECURITY Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Implementing appropriate physical, technical, and administrative safeguards to protect business and personal data from unauthorized access.
Includes  avoidance or mitigation of large breaches, effective electronic data privacy practices, employee training and education, and compliance with existing and emerging regulations such as HIPAA and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Data Privacy and Security is relevant to those who entrust us with their data, including employees and customers.
Protecting data privacy and security is  relevant to all Medtronic employees, contingent workers, and vendors.
The  management approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicOur global cybersecurity and privacy programs are designed to protect data in the ever-evolving technology and cybersecurity landscape.
Our companywide  approach drives consistency across our organization and compliance with global standards.
Vendors and newly acquired companies are integrated to our standards.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach We invest in data privacy and security to comply with regulations, build investor confidence, retain customer trust, and respect the patients who benefit from  our products and therapies.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  Our Global Cybersecurity program is aligned to the National Institute of Standards and T echnology Cybersecurity Framework and the ISO/IEC27001 standard.
We drive consistency across our organization with companywide security policies, standards, and procedures.
We comply with international privacy regulations including state, federal, and, where applicable, international breach notification requirements.
We use  technology to scan our operational environment for risks, and we assess the risks of third-party projects and initiatives.
Recognizing the crucial role employees play in safeguarding data, we deliver annual, localized privacy and security training.
T o advance data security practices,  we collaborate with third-party organizations such as the Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center and AdvaMed.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3)Based on various regional requirements, Medtronic systems are regularly assessed or audited or a rolling, periodic basis (i.e. for HIPAA or GDPR compliance) by  both the Privacy and Security teams, along with Corporate Audit.
Additionally, the Global Security program at Medtronic is assessed every 18–24 months by a third-party.
MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialETHICS IN SALES AND MARKETING Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Upholding ethical behavior in the sales and marketing of Medtronic products, including the truthful, nonmisleading promotion of products to customers,  medical professionals, and the broader scientific community.
This includes active oversight of distributors and effective management of off-label promotion.
Ethics in sales and marketing is relevant to all Medtronic employees, healthcare providers, industry partners, patients, distributors, investors, regulators, and  governments.
The  management approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicT o responsibly market our products, we articulate our expectations for employees through policies and principles, provide communication and training to  employees in high-risk roles, and proactively monitor our business transactions for unethical behavior .
In some cases, we partner with third-party entities to distribute our products to customers.
We ensure our distributors and partners uphold our ethical standards in the sales and marketing of our products through our Distributor Code of Conduct and a related compliance program.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach Maintaining the trust of customers, patients, industry partners, healthcare providers, investors, regulators, governments, and employees is critical to our  success.
Our customers depend on our medical products, services, and therapies, and we must promote them factually, lawfully, and in a way that supports their approved or cleared use.
Promoting our products ethically protects patient safety and preserves our reputation.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  We promote our products based on their approved labeling, and promote and sell our products through accurate and truthful communications about their  efficacy, quality, safety, and price.
Our guiding policies and principles include: Code of Conduct, Global Business Conduct Standards Policy, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors, Physician Collaboration Policy, and Distributor Code of Conduct.
Employees must also adhere to the AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals.
The Medtronic Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC) provides oversight for our Ethics program and is responsible for our policies and programs related to  ethics, including our global risk assessment process.
The OEC processes and thoroughly investigates all reported concerns of alleged misconduct, including those related to sales and marketing practices.
If we uncover an ethical issue, we swiftly investigate and remediate it through our streamlined review process.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3)We invite all Medtronic employees to provide feedback on our Ethics program through annual surveys.
These results help us assess our management approach  and identify areas for improvement.
Our annual risk assessment process includes the OEC’s rigorous review of internal and external inputs, such as regulatory or enforcement actions, hotline  reporting, audit findings, and investigations.
This review is coupled with internal auditing and data analysis to identify high-risk areas for investigation and remediation.
We conduct root cause analysis on confirmed ethical issues and take appropriate corrective action to prevent recurrence.
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Employing a workforce that includes adequate representation of women and people from diverse ethnic backgrounds.
Includes treating all employees fairly,  without discrimination, providing equal professional opportunities and equitable compensation for work, irrespective of gender and ethnicity.
Inclusion and diversity (I&D) is relevant to our employees, suppliers, and communities.
The  management  approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicT o increase the representation of women and ethnically diverse people in our workforce, we build a culture of inclusion to attract and retain diverse talent.
We  take a multifaceted approach to ensuring that our work environment is free from discrimination, including companywide policies and mechanisms to report concerns regarding discrimination.
We are working toward racial and gender pay equity by analyzing our pay practices and adjusting compensation to be more equitable if we identify discrepancies.
MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialB.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach I&D strengthens our workplace culture, drives innovation, and ultimately helps us meet global health needs.
By hiring and developing diverse talent, creating a  culture of inclusivity, and measuring our performance on key indicators, we strengthen our company.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  Our policies related to I&D include the Medtronic Code of Conduct and the Global Human Rights and Labor Standards Policy.
Our program is overseen by our Chief Inclusion and Diversity Officer who evaluates and strengthens our I&D strategy, working to enhance our workplace culture  and increase our diverse talent acquisition, retention, and promotion.
We engage employees in I&D through ongoing training and communication as well as Employee Resource Groups and Diversity Networks.We use our diversity scorecard to track the diversity of teams along with changes in representation compared to the prior year .
T o increase representation of  diverse talent in director and above roles, we include diverse talent in every candidate pool and review hiring decisions with a panel of diverse employees.
T o ensure that we achieve appropriate representation, we leverage external data to monitor diversity and employment trends at the global, national, industry, and company level.
Nondiscrimination, workforce equality, and fair employment are addressed in our companywide policies.
We follow employment law by ensuring that an  objective party investigates all claims of discrimination.
We have a zero-tolerance policy and respond to all confirmed claims with disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3) We develop and test potential new solutions through a rigorous process of design, development, and preclinical and clinical studies.
Our development processes include predictive technology to enhance our understanding of how a product will work in the field.
We generate cost-effective  evidence using advanced statistical methodology and modeling simulations while also bringing promising innovations to clinical trials.
Our focus, though, remains on safety and effectiveness, always with the patient experience and outcomes at the center .
INNOVA TION Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Innovating to increase the availability of treatments that address significant disease burden through research and development (R&D) of new technologies,  products, and therapies; new application/treatment or enhanced clinical outcomes with existing technologies; new processes and tools; and/or scientific cooperation/partnership.
Innovation is relevant for our customers, patients, and those who are not yet customers or patients but could benefit from our products or therapies.
The management approach  and its components (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicWe innovate and increase the availability of our treatments by maintaining a strong product pipeline, focusing on new and emerging solutions alongside novel  applications of existing technology.
Through a program of preclinical and clinical trials, we bring promising new solutions to market.
We partner with others at the product development and launch  stages of new Medtronic products to address customer needs.
Once our products are launched, our work to increase access furthers the availability of essential treatment to healthcare providers and patients.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach Our Mission drives us to innovate and find new solutions to unmet health needs.
We invest in R&D to maintain a strong product pipeline and continually improve  the availability of essential treatments.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  Our R&D program is the foundation of our efforts to increase availability of treatments.
We monitor emerging and promising technologies, focusing our  investments where they can make the most difference.
Our product development process ensures we keep safety, quality, and effectiveness at the heart of our efforts to increase availability.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialEvaluation of the  management approach  (GRI 103-3) We develop and test potential new solutions through a rigorous process of design, development, and preclinical and clinical studies.
Our development processes include predictive technology to enhance our understanding of how a product will work in the field.
We generate cost-effective  evidence using advanced statistical methodology and modeling simulations while also bringing promising innovations to clinical trials.
Our focus, though, remains on safety and effectiveness, always with the patient experience and outcomes at the center .
INTEGRA TED CARE Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Efforts to partner with others to create medical technologies and new business models that improve patients' lives.
Bringing together inputs, delivery,  management, and organization of services related to diagnosis, treatment, care, rehabilitation, and health promotion.
Includes patient-centered care design and innovation.
Integrated care partnerships and systems are relevant for our customers, patients, and those who are not yet customers or patients but could benefit from our  products or therapies.
The  management approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicWe partner with others to find and extend innovative solutions to global healthcare challenges.
This starts at the innovation and new product development stage, where we collaborate with peers, innovators, and academics.
Through VBHC partnerships,  we work with health systems to improve long-term patient outcomes per dollar spent.
And we partner with others across healthcare pathways to develop new business models that improve patient outcomes.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach Health systems are complex.
Through partnership and collaboration, we can find innovative solutions to tackling these complexities — improving efficiency of  care and patient outcomes.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  Ongoing programs and activities to expand integrated care include:    Hub-and-spoke model — connecting communities with effective healthcare systems in areas with limited resources and infrastructure     Integr ated Health Solutions — helping healthcare facilities in Europe, the Middle East, and Asia optimize clinical and operational processes, improving  efficiency and patient access to care    VBHC partnerships — partnering with healthcare providers globally to implement VBHC programs    Medtronic Care Management Services — remote patient monitoring solutions Evaluation of the  management approach  (GRI 103-3)Integrated care is a key component of our overall approach to increasing global access to our products and services.
We monitor and adjust each program and  partnership on a case-by-case basis — tracking patient outcomes and efficiencies and applying what we learn to enable continuous improvement.
PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Manage product quality as it relates to all key stakeholders — patients, physicians, hospital administrators, and Medtronic businesses.
Includes design,  reliability, manufacturability; supplier quality; and global compliance and corrective action.
Also includes investments in personnel, training, IT tools,  and automation.
Product quality is relevant across the entire product life cycle.
Within Medtronic, we manage product quality in research and development (R&D), manufacturing  and production, sales, distribution, post-market surveillance, compliant handling, and corrective action planning.
Product quality is relevant to external groups including customers — the medical professionals and patients who rely on our products and therapies.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialThe  management  approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicAt Medtronic, product quality is everyone’s responsibility.
We reinforce our “Quality Begins With Me” culture through regular communications and training, and  use the Medtronic Corporatewide Assessment for Regulatory Excellence (MCARE) to foster continual improvement in our quality systems.
Our Medical Safety Council promotes a culture of safety across Medtronic, and they partner with other functions such as quality and clinical to help ensure  patient safety is protected.
We adhere to regulatory requirements, such as those set by the U.S. FDA, and we update our procedures in line with emerging regulations and standards.Clinical trials are often the final test of effectiveness and safety for our products.
We conduct clinical trials to the highest standards required by international and  national regulations, regardless of where the trial is conducted.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach We take our responsibility to the people using and benefiting from our products very seriously — safety is always our first priority.
We will only launch new  products when we have confirmed their safety and effectiveness.
Product quality covers each stage of our value chain, including design, manufacturing, preclinical and clinical trials, and post-market surveillance.
Quality and reliability are important to ensure the safety of all the patients who depend on our products and therapies for their health and well-being.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  Our global quality strategy takes a patient-centered approach and ensures that we deliver consistent companywide quality.
Specific policies, processes and  programs under our strategy include:     The "Quality Begins With Me" program that empowers employees and suppliers to promote excellence and show individual ownership and leadership   of quality.
Our Design, R eliability, Manufacturability (DRM) methodology that ensures product quality, safety, and reliability throughout new product design   and development.
The Medtronic Operating System that improves manufacturing and supplier quality by building continuous improvement principles into production through  Lean Six Sigma.
The First- Time Quality methodology that teaches employees to see the potential for error , develop strong controls, and identify where improvements can  have the biggest impact on quality.
The Supplier Optimization and Risk Reduction program that enables strategic suppliers to identify and mitigate risks and design products and processes  correctly.
The ISO 13485 standard that sets out requirements for quality management systems specific to medical devices.
The ISO14971 standard that establishes the framework and requirements for effectively managing and reducing product risks and ensuring that our product  and therapy benefits outweigh residual risks.
Our Policy Regarding the Use of Animals.
Internal guidance to support clinical trials.
We share our quality requirements with suppliers via our Supplier Quality Excellence Manual.
We help suppliers meet our standards through:    Regular quality audits based on product and supplier risk    Continuous improvement programs, facilitated onsite at supplier manufacturing locations    Collaboration with suppliers to improve the design, reliability, and manufacturability of components and products     Support of supplier business continuity management planning initiatives — building their capability to proactively identify and mitigate global   operational risksMEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialEvaluation of the  management approach  (GRI 103-3)We use our “Quality Begins With Me 2.0” assessment model to score individual sites and functions for quality culture, identify root causes, and evaluate  improvement year-on-year .
External assessments by regulatory agencies play an essential role in our sector .
They ensure we remain accountable and alert to regulatory priorities and  implement changes to our policies and procedures where needed.
We share learnings or changes resulting from these assessments via our Knowledge Management process.
We track product use and collect patient outcome data to measure and improve safety and to inform future design.
We engage with global regulators and  industry stakeholders to seek feedback and improve our post-market surveillance processes.
When alerted to any regulatory or field safety issue with one of our products, we take prompt action.
We assess the situation and implement corrective  measures, including voluntary product recalls, when appropriate.
T o prevent recurrence, we work to understand and resolve underlying issues or root causes.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Developing and introducing innovative products and packaging with the goal of improving patient and community health and reducing life cycle environmental  impacts.
Involves ecodesign, circularity concepts, and recyclability to meet regulations and customer requirements, including the elimination of materials of concern, where possible.
Product stewardship is relevant for our customers, the patients who benefit from our products, the communities where we operate, as well as the employees in  operations, supply chain, research and development, regulatory, and quality.
The  management approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicOur Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) program advances our product stewardship initiatives across the product life cycle to meet customer needs and  expectations.
We also have a standardized approach to help us meet regulatory requirements for products and product communications.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach Above all, our product stewardship initiatives help us protect patient safety with a focus on quality, sterility, and compliance.
They also help us align with our  Mission and meet our customers’ expectations by demonstrating environmental stewardship across the life cycle of our products.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  The Medtronic Corporate EHS Product Stewardship team oversees our program standards for all businesses and regions.
Product Stewardship supports compliance with regulations designed to protect patient safety, such as California Proposition 65 and the E.U. Directive on  Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS).
Our corporate program management team supports our environmental compliance efforts and our Hazardous Substance team — comprising personnel from Corporate and other businesses — analyzes regulations, provides instructions for compliance, develops detailed implementation plans, and evaluates the effectiveness of our Compliance program.
Product Stewardship involves mitigating impacts from materials of concerns in our products and production activities across the life cycle of our products.
The Medtronic Sustainable Packaging Working Group is focused on reducing the environmental impact of our packaging.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3)Medtronic established working groups across the businesses and regions, including regulatory, quality, EHS, legal, supply chain, and operations, to address  ongoing changes to product content requirements.
Corporate EHS has instituted numerous education and training programs, metric tracking, and the development of internal systems to address product content tracking and management as well as enable compliance with product stewardship goals and requirements.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialRESPONSIBLE SUPPL Y MANAGEMENT Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Managing the social and environmental impacts of our supply chain and improving the sustainability performance of our suppliers.
Includes setting expectations  and requirements, increasing supplier transparency, monitoring performance, and building long-term relationships with partners to ensure they uphold human rights and labor standards, and reduce their environmental impact.
Responsible sourcing is relevant to our suppliers, customers, and local communities.
The  management  approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topic Our Responsible Supply Management (RSM) program strives for supplier excellence, including responsible business practices.
Through formal policies, we  communicate our expectation that suppliers demonstrate respect for human rights, labor standards, and the environment.
Our Global Supplier Standards Compliance program is our mechanism for identifying and mitigating the potential risks in our supply chain.
Additionally, our Supplier Diversity program expands our supplier base and supports our communities by building economic partnerships with historically  underrepresented business owners.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach Our global supply chain is central to our ability to provide high-quality, life-improving products and services.
Our RSM program strives for supplier excellence,  which includes responsible business practices that protect workers and the environment.
This approach helps us meet regulatory requirements and ensure our supply chain conforms with customer expectations.
Through our Supplier Diversity program, we gain excellent partners that drive better business results through innovative solutions and increased flexibility and  resilience.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  Our policies related to responsible supply management include our Global Supplier Standards, Global Human Rights and Labor Standards Policy, Global Anti- Human T rafficking and Forced Labor Policy, Conflict Minerals Policy, and Code of Conduct.
We expect our suppliers to:    Follow applicable laws related to governance, environmental responsibility, workplace health and safety, and human rights    Meet the minimum social, ethical, and environmental requirements described in our Global Supplier Standards We ensure our top suppliers and employees who manage our supply chain understand our requirements through ongoing communication and training  initiatives.
Through our Global Standards Compliance program, we identify and remediate social and environmental risks in our supply chain.
The program focuses on a  portion of our supply chain composed of top-spend or high-risk direct material suppliers and contract manufacturers.
We engage suppliers in self-assessment questionnaires, then review responses to identify instances of noncompliance.
Each supplier is assigned a risk score and is required to repeat the self-assessment on a frequency determined by the risk score.
We require suppliers to responsibly manage and disclose any materials of concern used in our manufacturing processes, final products, or packaging.
We also  provide a Conflict Minerals Report to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, based on an annual supplier survey.
Our Supplier Diversity team, Supplier Diversity Steering Committee, and Executive Management team oversee our Supplier Diversity program.
We promote  inclusive sourcing through employee training, business unit annual plans, and sponsorship of organizations that develop and promote small and diverse suppliers in the United States.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3) We evaluate the effectiveness of our RSM program through our Global Standards Compliance program.
We measure success by the number of self-assessment  questionnaires completed as well as noncompliances identified and resolved.
In the future, we will expand our program to include onsite audits.
We also conduct an annual supplier survey to identify red flag smelters linked to conflict minerals.
The results help us evaluate the effectiveness of our Conflict  Minerals program and are reported annually to the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission.
Key performance indicators tracked for our Supplier Diversity program include the number of diverse suppliers included in bids for new business and the   amount of spend occurring with small and diverse suppliers.
These metrics are maintained for each of the 10 diverse and small supplier types detailed at  www.medtronic.com/supplierdiversity.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialT ALENT Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)The recruitment, retention, and development of Medtronic employees.
This includes employee training, career management and promotion, and leadership  development, as well as compensation and benefits practices.
Our approach to talent is relevant to current and prospective employees.
The  management approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topic Our business is knowledge-based, and our success is dependent on attracting, developing, and retaining talent.
We support our growing workforce through  global career development and training programs, career advancement opportunities, competitive benefits and compensation practices, as well as programs that promote health and safety.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach We recognize the personal worth of all employees by providing an employment framework that allows personal satisfaction in work accomplished, security,  advancement opportunity, and a means to share in the company’s success.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  Our Human Resources department has established programs and policies to attract, develop, and retain talented employees.
Our chief human resource officer  serves on the Executive Committee and has primary responsibility for talent and culture-related initiatives.
The Medtronic Compensation Committee assists the board of directors in overseeing and evaluating employee benefit plans and stock programs.
It is in our best interest to ensure employees succeed in their jobs and are prepared for new, challenging roles.
We spend more than $72 million on professional  development, making more than 20,000 learning resources available to employees.
We offer a variety of leadership development programs to employees at various levels of the organization to strengthen the capabilities of our people managers and promote career advancement.
We reward employees for channeling their talent and ingenuity into the Medtronic Mission.
Our competitive approach to compensation reflects industry  benchmarks and local market standards.
Our programs include annual and long-term incentives that provide the means to share in the company’s success.
T o attract the best leaders, we offer competitive benefits, cash, and equity incentives.
The same programs and principles govern our executive and nonexecutive compensation.
Our retirement, health, and other benefits are designed to help employees thrive.
They are flexible, affordable, and competitive within our industry.
We honor  employee efforts through recognition programs that reward achievements, celebrate milestones, share appreciation, and sustain our culture.
We apply a highly disciplined approach to protect the health and safety of our employees — from offices to manufacturing sites.
We set annual internal  Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) goals, proactively identify and manage risks, implement training and compliance programs, monitor regulatory trends, conduct audits, and report opportunities for improvement to senior management.
We continue to operate Healthier T ogether , our Global Wellness program to support the physical, emotional, social, and financial well-being of Medtronic employees.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3)Medtronic monitors the effectiveness of talent programs through internal feedback mechanisms, including our annual Organizational Health Survey and  performance evaluations.
The Medtronic Voice Y our Concern Line is a website and toll-free hotline operated by a third party that provides employees as well as anyone operating on  behalf of Medtronic a place to report and voice concerns.
The Medtronic Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC) evaluates all reported concerns and escalates  as necessary.
We collect data through our Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) information systems to evaluate and improve our Health and Safety program.
We monitor  data including hazard and near-miss reports as well as our injury incident rate and lost/restricted workday case rates.
MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialTECHNOLOGY AND DEVICE SECURITY Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Manage security of products in use, including real-time monitoring of released products and software engineering to protect against device hacking.
Includes  prevention of hacking IT systems that connect Medtronic devices to hospital systems.
Device security is relevant across the entire product life cycle.
Within Medtronic, we manage product quality and security in research and development,  manufacturing and production, sales, and distribution.
Device security is relevant to external groups including customers, patients, and the medical professionals who rely on our products and therapies.
The  management  approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicMedtronic engages with external organizations and experts to maintain best practice and to provide feedback on developing global product security-related  standards.
We collaborate with organizations such as the U.S. FDA, the National Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center , and the Advanced Medical T echnology Association.
We also follow recognized standards such as ISO 27001 and NIST standards.
Employees and vendors play an important role in protecting data and privacy and are required to complete annual privacy training.
Vendors must also adhere  to our data privacy and security standards, and we review privacy and security risks as part of our vendor assessment process.
When we acquire a company, we conduct privacy and security due diligence, implement policies and procedures, and deliver employee training.
Our Product Security program aligns with regulatory standards, protect patients, and ensure the highest levels of product security and usability.
The Medtronic  Corporate Quality organization manages our Product Security program in close collaboration with the Global Security Office.
Subject matter experts within each business unit ensure security considerations are integrated throughout the product life cycle.
We regularly engage with employees and industry partners — including regulators, peers, healthcare organizations, and security researchers — to keep track of current security practices and emerging risks.
We invite anyone with questions or concerns, or who believes they have identified a potential security vulnerability in one of our products or services, to contact  us via Medtronic.com/security.
Our Product Security team actively tracks, investigates, and responds to these inquiries.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach Device security and any other potential threats to patient safety are taken very seriously at Medtronic.
Protecting information is critically important for  Medtronic, our customers, and, most importantly, the patients who use our products.
We have designed our security and privacy programs to safeguard data in a rapidly evolving environment.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  The Medtronic Corporate Quality organization manages our Product Security program — including relevant initiatives and policies — in close collaboration with  the Global Security Office.
Medtronic has a formally approved companywide Global Product Security Policy that provides guidance on integrating security into product development.
This  policy governs the overall Product Security program.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3)The Quality Committee and the T echnology and Value Creation Committee of the board of directors monitors and evaluates our quality systems and processes  on an annual basis.
Full details of committee responsibilities are available in the committee charters on the corporate governance portion of our website.
The security research community brings an important and independent perspective to our work.
Our Medtronic.com/security webpage recognizes independent  security researchers who have demonstrated ethical behavior by following coordinated disclosure processes or advancing product security.
We invite anyone with questions or concerns, or who believes they have identified a potential security vulnerability in one of our products or services, to contact  us via Medtronic.com/security.
Our Product Security team actively tracks, investigates, and responds to these inquiries.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INDEX (GRI) DISCLOSURE ON  MANAGEMENT  APPROACH TO  MA TERIAL ISSUES    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialTRANSPARENCY Definition and boundaries  (GR1 103-1)Disclosure of financial and sustainability performance, including material risks and opportunities.T ransparency is central to all our interactions within and outside our business — including with employees, investors, healthcare professionals, suppliers,  regulators, and other stakeholders.
The  management approach and its components  (GRI 103-2)A.
An explanation of how the organization manages the topicWe identify our material sustainability issues, track expectations and performance against them, and regularly report our progress and ongoing challenges  through our annual Integrated Performance Report and 10-K filing.
This includes reporting our key risk and opportunity areas.
We engage with our key stakeholders to keep them up to date with relevant activities and performance and to inform our strategy.
Our Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) guides our companywide approach to sustainability, and we embed sustainability throughout our operations  through a number of key roles and reporting lines.
B.
A statement of the purpose of the management approach T ransparent communication and collaboration enable us to meet challenges more effectively and amplify the positive impact of our business.
Engaging openly  with our stakeholders helps us to understand what’s expected of us and holds us accountable for our actions.
C.
A description of the policies, commitments, goals, responsibilities, resources, grievances, processes, programs, and initiatives associated with the  management approach  Our Mission is the roadmap for managing all of our ongoing sustainability activities and for dealing with new or unexpected issues.
It ensures we focus our  efforts and resources where we can make the greatest difference.
Evaluation of the management approach  (GRI 103-3)We undertake regular reviews to keep track of our most significant sustainability issues, periodically updating our list of material issues by engaging with a broad  range of internal and external stakeholders.
We use external frameworks and benchmarks to guide our sustainability strategy and reporting and to learn where we can do better .
These include CDP , Global  Reporting Initiative, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, and UN Sustainable Development Goals.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GRI-100    UNIVERSAL   Indicator Disclosure requirement Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organization Medtronic Public Limited Company 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Company Overview  2020 Form 10-K 102-3 Location of headquarters 20 Lower Hatch Street, Dublin 2, Ireland 102-4 Location of operations Company Overview2020 Form 10-K 102-5 Ownership and legal form Medtronic plc is a publicly traded company on the New Y ork Stock Exchange Inc.
under the ticker symbol MDT 102-6 Markets served Company Overview  2020 Form 10-K 102-7 Scale of the organization Company Overview The Economic Impact of our Business 2020 Form 10-K 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Employee Data Summary 102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain Responsibility  102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Company OverviewSupply Chain Responsibility 2020 Form 10-K 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Product Quality Promoting Environmental Stewardship Sustainability Strategy and Reporting  102-12 External initiatives Corporate Governance  Supporting a Global Workforce  Ethics in Sales and Marketing  Promoting Environmental Stewardship  Data Privacy and Security  Sustainability Strategy and Reporting Supply Chain Responsibility  Product Quality GLOBAL   REPORTING  INITIA TIVE  (GRI)    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialMEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INITIA TIVE  (GRI)    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialIndicator Disclosure requirement Disclosure 102-13 Membership of associations  Corporate Governance   Promoting Environmental Stewardship  Supply Chain Responsibility  Product Quality    102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from our CEO 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Sustainability Strategy and Reporting  102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Corporate Governance  Ethical Business ConductEthics in Sales and Marketing  Data Privacy and Security  Promoting Environmental StewardshipSupply Chain Responsibility Product Quality    102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethical Business ConductEthics in Sales and Marketing   102-18 Governance structure  Corporate Governance Corporate Governance WebsiteSustainability Strategy and Reporting 102-19 Delegating authority  Sustainability Strategy and Reporting 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Sustainability Strategy and Reporting 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance  Sustainability Strategy and Reporting   102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees  Corporate Governance   Corporate Governance Website 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body  Corporate Governance   Corporate Governance Website 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body  Corporate Governance   Corporate Governance Website  102-25 Conflicts of interest  Corporate Governance Website 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Governance   102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Sustainability Strategy and Reporting  102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Sustainability Strategy and Reporting 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Sustainability Strategy and Reporting  102-33 Communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance Website 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Supporting a Global Workforce Proxy StatementMEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INITIA TIVE  (GRI)    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Uni versal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialIndicator Disclosure requirement Disclosure 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance  Supporting a Global WorkforceProxy Statement 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration  Proxy Statement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Corporate Governance Sustainability Strategy and Reporting  102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Medtronic complies with global laws regarding freedom of association and collective  bargaining agreements, including participation in work councils.
Approximately 35% of our European workforce is represented by work councils and roughly half is covered by collective bargaining agreements with trade unions.
Our U.S. workforce is not unionized.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders  Sustainability Strategy and Reporting  102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Corporate Governance  Sustainability Strategy and Reporting 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainability Strategy and Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Company OverviewAbout This Report 2020 Form 10-K 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries  Sustainability Strategy and ReportingAbout This Report  102-47 List of material topics  Sustainability Strategy and ReportingDisclosure on Management Approach  102-48 Restatements of information Any restatements of information are noted in the relevant sections of our 2020  Integrated Performance Report.
102-49 Changes in reporting Shared throughout our 2020 Integrated Performance Report 102-50 Reporting period  About This Report  102-51 Date of most recent report Our FY19 report was published in November 2019.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual  102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This index has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Core Standard.
102-55 GRI content index Global Reporting Initiative Index  102-56 External assurance This report has not been independently verified except for our FY19 environmental, health, and safety data.
We have practices in place to internally validate the data.
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Disclosure on Management Approach  103-2 The management approach and its components Disclosure on Management ApproachMEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INITIA TIVE  (GRI)    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Universal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialGRI-200    ECONOMIC   Indicator Disclosure requirement Disclosure Identified omissions Explanation for omissions 201-1 Direct economic value generated and  distributedThe Economic Impact of our Business Philanthropy  2020 Form 10-K 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and  opportunities due to climate change Climate Change Risk and Resilience Sustainability Strategy and Reporting  201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other  retirement plansSupporting a Global Workforce  203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported The Economic Impact of our Business Global Healthcare Access  Philanthropy  Supply Chain Responsibility 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Global Healthcare Access Supply Chain Responsibility 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers  Supply Chain Responsibility Percentage of the total procurement  budget used for significant locations of operation spent on suppliers local to that operation.The information is currently unavailable.
At this time, we do not collect full data on the percentage of the total procurement budget used for significant locations of operation spent on suppliers local to  that operation.
Medtronic collects total procurement  spend at significant locations of operation.
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Ethics in Sales and Marketing  205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Ethics in Sales and Marketing 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Ethics in Sales and Marketing  2020 Form 10-KConfirmed incidents of corruption and  actions taken.The information is currently unavailable.
Medtronic currently tracks the total number of employees terminated for ethics- and compliance-related lapses.
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior , anti-trust, and monopoly practices 2020 Form 10-KMEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INITIA TIVE  (GRI)    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Universal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialGRI-300    ENVIRONMENT AL   Indicator Disclosure requirement Disclosure Identified omissions Explanation for omissions 301-3 Reclaimed products and their   packaging materialPromoting Environmental Stewardship 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Promoting Environmental Stewardship 302-3 Energy intensity Promoting Environmental Stewardship 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Promoting Environmental Stewardship 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements  of products and servicesMedtronic products consume relatively low energy as is, and safety requirements prevent us from reducing a product's energy use.
303-2 Water sources significantly affected  by withdrawal of water  Promoting Environmental Stewardship 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Promoting Environmental Stewardship 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2)  GHG emissionsPromoting Environmental Stewardship 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Promoting Environmental Stewardship 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Promoting Environmental Stewardship 307-1 Noncompliance with environmental   laws and regulationsPromoting Environmental Stewardship  308-1 New suppliers that were screened  using environmental criteria Supply Chain Responsibility  308-2 Negative environmental impacts in  the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain Responsibility MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INITIA TIVE  (GRI)    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Universal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialGRI-400    SOCIAL   Indicator Disclosure requirement Disclosure Identified omissions Explanation for omissions 401-1 New employee hires and employee  turnoverEmployee Data Summary   401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or  part-time employees Supporting a Global Workforce  401-3 Parental leave Supporting a Global Workforce  403-2 T ypes of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of  work-related fatalities Supporting a Global Workforce  404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills  and transition assistance programs Supporting a Global Workforce  404-3 Percentage of employees receiving  regular performance and career development reviews Supporting a Global Workforce  405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Corporate Governance  Supporting a Global Workforce 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration   of women to menSupporting a Global Workforce 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions takenT otal number of incidents of  discrimination and corrective  actions takenThe information is currently unavailable.
At this time, we do not track discrimination incidents for our suppliers.
We do not plan to collect this specific information but expect our suppliers to follow local laws and regulations.
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at riskSuppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated  or at significant riskThe information is currently unavailable.
Through our Global Supplier Standards Compliance program, we plan to track this information for our suppliers in the future.
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child laborSuppliers at significant risk for incidents  of child laborThe information is currently unavailable.
Through our Global Supplier Standards Compliance program, we plan to track this information for our suppliers in the future.
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory laborSuppliers at significant risk for incidents  of forced or compulsory laborThe information is currently unavailable.
Through our Global Supplier Standards Compliance program, we plan to track this information for our suppliers in the future.
MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INITIA TIVE  (GRI)    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Universal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialIndicator Disclosure requirement Disclosure Identified omissions Explanation for omissions 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights  policies or proceduresSecurity personnel trained in human  rights policies or proceduresThis information is not applicable to Medtronic.
Security practices are relevant to the business as it relates to product security.
412-2 Employee training on human rights  policies or procedures Supply Chain Responsibility  412-3 Significant investment agreements  and contracts that include human  rights clauses or that underwent  human rights screening Supply Chain Responsibility  413- Oper ations with local community  engagement, impact assessments,  and development programs  Global Healthcare Access   The Economic Impact of our BusinessPhilanthropy Percentage of operations with  implemented local community engagement, impact assessments,  and development programs.
The information is currently unavailable.
At this time, we do not quantify local community engagement activities as a percentage of operations and do not have plans to do so.
Our products and therapies are available to patients all over the world.
Our efforts to increase access through business and philanthropy are global.
In addition, our philanthropic activities focus on where we have the largest employee presence as well as medically underserved communities where we believe we can reduce barriers to care.
We collaborate with local governments, health systems, companies, and nonprofit organizations to assess local needs and develop locally appropriate healthcare solutions.
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Supply Chain Responsibility  414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply  chain and actions taken Supply Chain Responsibility  415-1 Political contributions Corporate Governance  Corporate Governance Website 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety  impacts of product and service  categoriesProduct Quality 416-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning  the health and safety impacts of products and servicesOf the 233 inspections that occurred across Medtronic in FY20, there were  22 total findings across 11 sites.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX GLOBAL   REPORTING  INITIA TIVE  (GRI)    Disclosur e on management   approach to material issues    GRI-100: Universal    GRI-200: E conomic    GRI-300: En vironmental    GRI-400: S ocialIndicator Disclosure requirement Disclosure Identified omissions Explanation for omissions 417-1 Requirements for product and service  information and labelingPromoting Environmental Stewardship Ethics in Sales and Marketing  417-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning  product and service information and labelingEthics in Sales and Marketing  417-3 Incidents of noncompliance concerning marketing communications Ethics in Sales and Marketing   418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses  of customer data  Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses  of customer dataThis information is unavailable due to confidentiality constraints regarding the sensitive nature of this data.
In all relevant regions Medtronic adheres to state, federal, and, where applicable, international data breach notification requirements.
419-1 Noncompliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 2020 Form 10-KMEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES AFFORDABILITY AND PRICING SASB Code Metric Response HC-MS-240a.1 Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases (for all products) to the annual  increase in the U.S. Consumer Price IndexMonth Medtronic relative to all Medtronic relative to medical care commodities Apr-19 -330% -150% May-19 -310% -60% Jun-19 -290% 20% Jul-19 -310% -90% Aug-19 -330% -170% Sep-19 -330% -130% Oct-19 -340% -260% Nov-19 -340% -190% Dec-19 -360% -380% Jan-20 -380% -300% Feb-20 -280% -230% Mar-20 -200% -180% HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information (such as average and median) for each product is disclosed to customers or their agents (e.g., group purchasing organizations or consultants)Partially reported in Adding Value to Society > Expanding Global Healthcare Access.
Medtronic leverages all relevant potential communication channels and technologies  with customers and business partners to provide detailed, accurate price information across the world.
PRODUCT SAFETY SASB Code Metric Response HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled Reported in Product Quality.
In FY20, we had 77 recalls, affecting approximately 2.2 million units.
HC-MS-250a.2 List of products listed in the FDA ’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical  Products databaseReported in Product Quality FDA ’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and  User Facility Device Experience We report all necessary data as required by the FDA.
This information is  available here.
HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current  Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeIn FY20 Medtronic received:    6 Form 483s    0 Warning Letters    0 Seizures    27 Recalls (limited to reportable recalls)    0 Consent decreesSUST AINABILITY   ACCOUNTING ST ANDARDS  BOARD (SASB)   MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES   Affordability and pricing   Product safety   Ethical marketing    Product design and life cycle   management   Supply chain management   Business ethics   Activity metricMEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX SUST AINABILITY   ACCOUNTING ST ANDARDS  BOARD (SASB)   MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES   Affordability and pricing   Product safety   Ethical marketing    Product design and life cycle   management   Supply chain management   Business ethics   Activity metricETHICAL MARKETING SASB Code Metric Response HC-MS-270a.1 T otal amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with  false marketing claimsEthics in Sales and Marketing  HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products Ethics in Sales and Marketing  PRODUCT DESIGN AND LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT SASB Code Metric Response HC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human health  considerations associated with chemicals in products and meet demand for  sustainable productsIn FY20, we launched our new Materials of Concern (MOC) Policy to streamline the way Medtronic manages MOCs in products.
Our activities included developing working teams to address a variety of ongoing product content matters and developing web portals to facilitate access to information.
HC-MS-410a.2 T otal amount of products accepted for takeback and reused, recycled, or donated, broken down by: (1) devices and equipment and (2) suppliesProduct Stewardship SUPPL Y CHAIN MANAGEMENT SASB Code Metric Response HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers' facilities participating in third-party audit programs for manufacturing and product qualityAll Medtronic contract manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers  are audited by regulators.
Additionally, many of our direct material suppliers are  ISO certified (ISO9001 or ISO13485) and go through certification audits.
Medtronic also subscribes to MedAccred — an industry-managed supply chain  oversight program.
This third-party accreditation focuses on improving process repeatability while reducing nonconformances.
We have shared details of the program with suppliers and encourage them to pursue accreditation.
In FY20, 100% of Medtronic manufacturing facilities were audited by external parties.
HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the distribution chain Medtronic maintains traceability within the manufacturing and distribution chain  through either serial or batch control of finished products.
We:      Le verage product identification technologies such as barcoding and radio- frequency identification to track identifying information of products     Utili ze enterprise resource planning (ERP) solutions to support identification and  control of products once they leave manufacturing sites — including supporting specific patient tracking if required.
Our ERP solutions ensure compliance with regulatory, quality, and customs control requirements.
Our ERP solutions ensure compliance with regulatory, quality, and customs control requirements.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX SUST AINABILITY   ACCOUNTING ST ANDARDS  BOARD (SASB)   MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES   Affordability and pricing   Product safety   Ethical marketing    Product design and life cycle   management   Supply chain management   Business ethics   Activity metricHC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of   critical materialsUnexpected events can cause both everyday and exceptional supply disruptions  to materials critical to Medtronic.
T o protect and enable the Medtronic Mission, the company has developed and deployed a comprehensive supply risk management approach — including methodology, tools, and governance — to proactively identify, assess, prioritize, and mitigate supply risk.
Supply risk management is a critical part of overall Medtronic business continuity,  crisis management, and supply management strategies.
Materials critical to Medtronic are routinely identified via a risk assessment of  suppliers and components required to make the finished product.
Medtronic continually monitors external risks such as natural disasters, operational  risk, political risk, and sustainability, and internal risks such as single/sole-sourced  suppliers, single manufacturing location, investigation of sub-tier suppliers, quality and delivery data, and capacity assessments.
Once risks ar e identified, Medtronic proactively implements mitigation strategies  including identification of alternate suppliers, adding additional supplier manufacturing locations, increasing inventory levels, and partnering with suppliers to improve quality and delivery.
BUSINESS ETHICS SASB Code Metric Response HC-MS-510a.1 T otal amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated   with bribery or corruptionReported in Ethics in Sales and Marketing HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with healthcare professionals Reported in Ethics in Sales and Marketing   Reported in Ethical Business Conduct ACTIVITY METRIC SASB Code Metric Response HC-MS-000.A Number of units sold by product category Not disclosed MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX T ASK FORCE ON   CLIMA TE-RELA TED  FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURES  (TCFD)    Go vernance    Risk management    Strategy    Metrics and targetsGOVERNANCE Disclose the organization’s governance around   climate-related risks and opportunities a)    D escribe the board’s oversight of climate- related risks and opportunities b)    D escribe management’s role in assessing  and managing climate-related risks and  opportunitiesMedtronic operates in a complex, dynamic, highly competitive, and regulated environment.
The business and affairs of the company are governed by a board of directors.
Our approach to governance is detailed at https:/ /www.medtronic.com/us-en/about/corporate-governance/overview.html.
The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Medtronic board of directors oversees the company’s environmental, social, and  governance (ESG) practices and has featured ESG at each of its regularly scheduled quarterly meetings during FY20.
In addition, other committees (such as the Audit Committee) engage in climate-related discussions as appropriate.
Climate-related issues that pose a significant risk to the company’s ability to meet our strategic goals and financial targets are escalated  to the Medtronic board through our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework as well as through the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee’s oversight of ESG.
At the management level, embedding and evolving a strong sustainability strategy requires coordinated leadership and broad organizational  participation in identifying and addressing sustainability priority issues, including climate-related risks and opportunities.
Our Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) oversees our corporate approach to sustainability, including strategic plans related to ESG  performance, risk, engagement and disclosure, and recognition.
Among other responsibilities, the SSC participates in the identification of material ESG issues and oversees the company’s performance related to those issues, including establishing or monitoring metrics, commitments, and performance aspirations/targets.
For example, the SSC contributes to our corporate environmental strategy, including our long-term targets for energy use/greenhouse gas emissions reduction, renewable energy, and water conservation.
The executive sponsor of the SSC is our Chief Financial Officer , who serves on the company's Executive Committee and is responsible for  leading the Medtronic Global Finance organization and key supporting functions, including T reasury, Controller , T ax, Internal Audit, Investor Relations, Corporate Strategy, ERM, and Business Development.
The SSC membership also includes other Executive Committee members and senior leaders of key operations and business functions who provide a range of perspectives and expertise for risk management, finance, legal, government affairs, investor relations, compliance, corporate governance, human resources, communications, philanthropy, quality, procurement, operations and business services, and environmental, health, and safety.
Our Enterprise Sustainability program, led by our Vice President of Corporate Governance and Privacy and our Director of Sustainability,  collaborates with the SSC and leaders from across the organization to conduct regular reviews of our ESG strategies, identify emerging trends, and monitor performance related to  the company’s material ESG issues.
Routine reporting to the SSC includes progress on goals and targets, changes in the regulatory landscape, and updates on programs/operations designed to address key ESG issues, including those that are climate related.
Senior leaders from across the organization participate in the Enterprise Risk Council that liaises with the Executive Committee, groups,  regions, and functions to enable risk identification, develop tolerances, establish key metrics to evaluate risk, escalate risk topics based on criticality, and drive mitigation plans for upcoming threats/weaknesses.
Participants include, among others, the Vice President of Corporate Governance and Privacy, who leads the company Sustainability program, and the Vice President, Global Operational Risk & Facilities, who leads multiple functions that address climate-related risks including Business Continuity Management (BCM), Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), Global Energy, and Facilities.
Functional leadership within EHS, BCM, Facilities, and Global Energy all report directly to the Senior Vice President of Global Operations and  provide routine reporting on risk issues, projects, and results.
Additionally, EHS leads quarterly meetings with vice presidents of operations from our business groups that support active monitoring of the status of environmental targets/goals including for energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, regulated and nonregulated waste, and water use.
MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX T ASK FORCE ON   CLIMA TE-RELA TED  FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURES  (TCFD)    Go vernance    Risk management    Strategy    Metrics and targetsRISK MANAGEMENT Disclose how the organization identifies,  assesses, and manages climate-related risks.
a)    D escribe the organization’s processes for  identifying and assessing climate-related  risks.
b)    D escribe the organization’s processes for  managing climate-related risksMedtronic Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) uses a structured risk identification and assessment process that incorporates both quantitative and qualitative factors that support organizational alignment in risk scoring and prioritization of identified risks.
The process assesses enterprise risks based on scored criteria that include the potential negative impact to Medtronic, the likelihood of  occurrence, the preparedness of the organization to address the potential risks, and the velocity or speed of onset at which Medtronic will realize the impact of the risk event.
Each of these focus areas includes specific evaluation criteria that lead to an overall score.
For example, although the impact score includes  ratings based on financial impact, other considerations are integrated into the risk review, including: organizational impacts relating to reputational/brand, quality, regulatory/legal/compliance, operations, and ability to achieve strategic objectives.
Climate-related risks surface through this review process and are evaluated in the same manner as other enterprise risks.
Based on the outcome of the ERM review, natural disasters such as hurricanes and wildfires have been identified as a risk for Medtronic.
Additionally, The Medtronic Business Continuity Management (BCM) team conducts an enterprisewide Business Impact Risk Assessment (BIRA) annually to quantify the potential impact of a business interruption at key locations.
The BIRA determines top business continuity risks — including physical climate risks resulting from natural disasters — and aligns on  recovery time, gaps, mitigation options, and prioritization.
This assessment incorporates a risk evaluation model based on the number of employees at the site, type of operation, uniqueness of the operation, and revenue impact.
Identified risks are prioritized based on their critical business impact, and preparedness and resilience practices are implemented as appropriate.
For example, a hurricane readiness program has been implemented.
The Enterprise Sustainability program also leads periodic risk assessments conducted by external experts to identify priority sustainability/ ESG issues based on input from internal leadership, external customers, investors, NGOs, and industry associations.
The most recent risk assessment was completed in late 2019 and included identification of a broad range of potential risk issues that could impact our long-term business success — including climate risk and resilience.
Each identified issue was individually scored based on inputs from interviews, surveys, and the external experts’ analysis and insights.
Factors assessed included importance to business based on revenue generation, operational efficiency / cost savings, regulatory risk, credibility, trust or reputation, innovation and growth, and employee productivity, hiring, or retention.
This assessment focused on both sustainability risks and opportunities.
We identify and address transitional climate risks through routine monitoring of carbon regulations, including carbon taxes and greenhouse  gas emissions data.
Our Government Affairs, Human Resources, Environmental, Health, and Safety, and Procurement groups monitor relevant regulations   in the global market — including regulations relating to climate change such as emissions limits.
Our Legal and Compliance teams oversee compliance with those regulations.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX T ASK FORCE ON   CLIMA TE-RELA TED  FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURES  (TCFD)    Go vernance    Risk management    Strategy    Metrics and targetsSTRA TEGY Disclose the actual and  potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material.
a)    D escribe the climate- related risks and  opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term.
b)    D escribe the impact of  climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization's businesses, strategy,  and financial planning.
c)    D escribe the resilience  of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a  2°C or lower scenario.The World Economic Forum’s annual Global Risks Report (2020) listed climate-related risks and environmental issues as the top five risks in terms of likelihood and impact.
Climate events and natural disasters are Included in these top five issues.
Climate-related Risks      Significant physical climate risks to Medtronic are consistent with with these findings and center on long-term risks associated with natural disasters such as hurricanes and wildfires, which can cause significant business disruption.
For example, Hurricane Maria shut down four Medtronic facilities and negatively impacted sales as production across all business lines was interrupted.
Additional costs were incurred to restore operations in Puerto Rico and provide humanitarian aid to Medtronic employees.
Medtronic global operations identifies climate-related risks and opportunities based on short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons.
Short-term horizons are  1-2 years and specifically center on annual financial planning within global operations.
Medium-term is 3-5 years and is primarily focused on operational footprint planning within global operations.
Our long-term horizon is 5-10 years and primarily relates to operational footprint and global market risks and opportunities.
We address climate-related risk predominantly through business strategies within our enterprise functional global operations areas including Facilities;  Environmental, Health, and Safety; Business Continuity Management; and Global Energy.
For example, our hurricane readiness program prioritizes investments at potentially affected facilities and operations to ensure continued delivery of products  and services.
This has resulted in investments in energy and water efficiency projects, renewable and clean energy sources, onsite energy installations, and capital investments that improve facility resilience.
The enterprise annual financial planning process prioritizes enterprise and functional expenditures related to these types of projects.
Medtronic has a dedicated budget for energy efficiency projects that can be utilized by all operations for qualified projects.
Climate-related Opportunities  Physical climate opportunities are identified and addressed through a structured Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) management process that includes goal setting and strategic objectives.
Through this process Medtronic has identified multiple climate-related opportunities relating to energy sources, resilience, and product development.
Medtronic operates numerous renewable energy installations including solar , cogeneration, and fuel cell technologies totaling over 50,000 MWh of electricity.
As the carbon markets mature, the environmental attributes of these installations grow, making the existing installations financially more attractive and future installations more feasible.
We view investments in onsite renewable and alternative energy such as solar , fuel cells, and cogeneration plants as strategic for building business resilience  because of their potential to decrease interruptions to operations and reduce company dependence on utility providers.
Medtronic continues to consider these installations as part of its overarching manufacturing footprint strategy and invests in them accordingly.
Scenario Analysis  Water scarcity was identified in 2019 by the World Economic Forum as one of the largest global risks in terms of potential impact over the next decade.
Assessing this risk allows us to identify the significance and potential impact to our business.
During FY20, we took an initial step toward incorporating scenario analysis into our climate-related strategies by conducting a water stress assessment using the  World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas.
With the Aqueduct online tool, we were able to assess current and future water stress — through 2040 — at Medtronic locations around the globe.
The assessment, which was limited to Medtronic facilities that use five million gallons of water or more annually, leveraged the Aqueduct Risk Atlas’ “optimistic,” “business as usual,” and “pessimistic” scenarios that are based on specific global temperature pathways.
We conducted a similar analysis of our top five contract manufacturers, scoping the assessment to locations relevant to Medtronic.
This analysis will support our understanding of the impacts of water stress on our business and the associated business strategies to address any significant  issues.
Results will be shared with internal stakeholders responsible for our business operations resilience strategies and investments and with our ERM organization.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX T ASK FORCE ON   CLIMA TE-RELA TED  FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURES  (TCFD)    Go vernance    Risk management    Strategy    Metric s and targetsMETRICS AND T ARGETS Disclose the metrics and targets used to   assess and manage relevant climate-related  risks and opportunities where such information is material.
a)    Disclose the metrics used b y the   organization to assess climate-related   risks and opportunities in line with its  strategy and risk management process.
We have established companywide environmental targets since 2007, with a focus on reductions in energy use and greenhouse gas emissions throughout our operations.
In 2020 we met our latest long-term target and have achieved a total GHG emissions reduction of  36% since 2013.
We are announcing new targets through FY30 that call for carbon neutrality across our owned and operated facilities and introduced our first long-term renewable energy target.
Information about our emissions targets and progress made against those targets, other climate targets, emission reduction initiatives,  details of how we collect activity data, calculate emissions, and other relevant information is included in our metrics and targets disclosure  as part of our annual CDP submission.
Details are available on pages 30-33 of this report and in our 2020 CDP disclosure.MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX EMPLOYEE DA T A SUMMARY 55   All c ounts are based on average calculations for the fiscal year ,  therefore there are instances of rounding that can cause the  total count to vary by a small amount.
Employee population data expressed here may vary from our 10-K form depending on the time of year when the data was gathered.
Some data may be restated from our FY18 Integrated Performance Report and our original FY20 report publication due to updated data parameters.
56  75 records do not specify gender .
57  57 records do not specify gender .
58  53 records do not specify gender .
59  75 employees do not have a job category designation.
60  57 employees do not have a job category designation.
61  27 employees do not have a job category designation.
62  Management = managers and above.
MEDTRONIC GLOBAL WORKFORCE55   FY1856FY1957FYT otal 91,109 90,108 92,Female 44,874 44,674 46,Asia-Pacific 12,873 12,653 13,Female 5,568 5,404 5,Canada 1,417 1,286 1,Female 806 745 Europe/Central Asia/Middle East/ Africa 17,763 18,377 18,Female 8,883 9,216 9,Latin America 17,293 16,920 17,Female 10,800 10,661 11,United States and Puerto Rico 41,763 40,872 41,Female 18,817 18,648 19,EMPLOYMENT TYPE55   FY1859FY1960FYSupport staff 39,459 37,061 38,   Female 23,339 22,088 22,Professional 41,339 42,472 43,   Female 17,872 18,664 19,Management629,789 10,041 10,   Female 3,520 3,772 4,VPs and higher 524 535    Female 143 150 161MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX EMPLOYEE DA T A SUMMARY 63   All c ounts are based on average calculations for the fiscal year ,  therefore there are instances of rounding that can cause the  total count to vary by a small amount.
Employee population data expressed here may vary from our 10-K form depending on the time of year when the data was gathered.
Some data may be restated from our FY18 Integrated Performance Report and our original FY20 publication due to updated data parameters.
64   0 r ecords have out-of-bounds values so are not included in age  breaks.
75 records do not specify gender .
65   1 r ecord has out-of-bounds values so is not included in age breaks.
57 records do not specify gender .
The age sub categories do not add up to the total due to rounding.
66   0 r ecords have out-of-bounds values so are not included in age  breaks.
9 records do not specify gender .
67  Numbers by region are based on female employees only.
68   0 r ecords have out-of-bounds values so are not included in age  breaks.
0 records do not specify gender .
69   0 r ecords have out-of-bounds values so are not included in age  breaks.
0 records do not specify gender .
70   0 r ecords have out-of-bounds values so are not included in age  breaks.
0 records do not specify gender .
GLOBAL FULL- TIME63   FY1864FY1965FYT otal 89,231 88,258 90,24 and under 5,323 5,330 5,25-39 41,339 41,070 42,40-54 32,801 32,111 32,55-69 9,631 9,594 10,70+ 137 154 Female6743,290 43,129 44, Asia-Pacific 5,451 5,330 5, Canada 785 732  Europe/Central Asia/Middle East/ Africa 7,704 7,998 8, Latin America 10,799 10,660 11, United States and Puerto Rico 18,552 18,411 18,GLOBAL PART - TIME63   FY1868FY1969FYT otal 1,879 1,850 1,24 and under 32 21 25-39 617 611 40-54 951 957 55-69 274 257 70+ 6 5 Female671,584 1,545 1, Asia-Pacific 117 74  Canada 21 14  Europe/Central Asia/Middle East/ Africa 1,180 1,218 1, Latin America 1 2  United States and Puerto Rico 266 238 207MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX EMPLOYEE DA T A SUMMARY 71   All c ounts are based on average calculations for the fiscal year ,  therefore there are instances of rounding that can cause the  total count to vary by a small amount.
Employee population data expressed here may vary from our 10-K form depending on the time of year when the data was gathered.
Some data may be restated from our FY18 Integrated Performance Report and our original FY20 publication due to updated data parameters.
Voluntary turnover excludes individuals that retired or were part  of a divestiture.
72   0 r ecords have out-of-bounds values (e.g., age=0).
407 records do not specify gender .
73   1 r ecord has out-of-bounds values (e.g., age=0).
72 records do not specify gender .
74   0 r ecords have out-of-bounds values (e.g., age=0).
49 records do not specify gender .
75  Numbers by region are based on female employees only.
76   T urnover calculated with average headcount for the FY .
Employee  population data expressed here may vary from our 10-K form depending on the time of year when the data was gathered.
Some data may be restated from our FY18 Integrated Performance Report due to updated data parameters.
77   0 r ecords have out-of-bounds values (e.g., age=0).
204 records do not specify gender .
78   1 r ecord has out-of-bounds values (e.g., age=0)   91 records do not specify gender .
79   0 r ecords have out-of-bounds values (e.g., age=0)   33 records do not specify gender .NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES71   FY1872FY1973FYT otal 18,166 17,545 18,24 and under 4,363 4,586 4,25-39 10,004 9,559 10,40-54 3,221 2,927 2,55-69 565 453 70+ 13 19 Female759,211 9,226 9, Asia-Pacific 1,085 1,220 1, Canada 127 217  Europe/Central Asia/Middle East/ Africa 1,261 1,225 1, Latin America 3,847 4,123 4, United States and Puerto Rico 2,891 2,441 2,EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (VOLUNT ARY AND INVOLUNT ARY)76   FY1877FY1978FYT otal employee turnover rate 16% 15% 16% 24 and under 3,426 2,652 2,25-39 6,974 7,225 7,40-54 3,268 3,376 3,55-69 610 659 1,70+ 10 13 Voluntary employee turnover rate 12% 12% 12% Female755,385 5,616 5, Asia-Pacific 849 678  Canada 68 75  Europe/Central Asia/Middle East/ Africa 747 743  Latin America 2,195 2,819 3, United States and Puerto Rico 1,526 1,301 1,267MEDTRONIC       ESG DISCLOSURE INDEX EMPLOYEE DA T A SUMMARY 80   Calculated as a verage headcount for the FY .
United States only,  excluding Puerto Rico.
Some data may be restated from our FY18  Integrated Performance Report due to updated data parameters.
81  Includes records coded as Do No Want to Disclose or Blank.GLOBAL AND U.S. LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY   FY18 FY19 FYCEO and CEO direct reports who are women 25.0%   25.0%   37.5% CEO and U.S. CEO direct reports who are ethnically diverse 16.0% 15.4% 15.9% U.S. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS80   FY18 FY19 FYAmerican Indian or Alaska Native 145 138 Asian 5,616 5,504 5,Black or African American 2,680 2,206 2,Hispanic or Latino 3,173 3,101 3,Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander 145 140 White 23,820 21,965 20,T wo or more races 667 710 Unspecified8113,521 15,829 8,950