Engineering impact
Medtronic 2022 Integrated Performance ReportContents
About this report  4
Letters to our stakeholders  5The year at a glance  7Our business  9Our impact: Employee  
stories  13Material issues and targets  16 
 Sustainability 
governance  18 
Stakeholder engagement  20 
 C
ontribution to the UN 
Sustainable Development  
Goals  23 FY22 environmental sustainability highlights  27
Climate risk and resilience  28Reducing our operational 
footprint  30
Product stewardship  37FY22 social impact highlights  41Global healthcare access  42Philanthropy  51 Inclusion, diversity, and  
equity  57 Supporting a global  
workforce  64 
Patient safety and product 
quality  72  
Data privacy and security  78 Supply chain responsibility  80FY22 governance and  
accountability highlights  87
Corporate governance  88 
 
Ethical business conduct  
91 
 
Ethics in sales and mark
eting  95
Our economic impact  98Global Reporting  
Initiative index  102
 Sustainability 
Accounting 
Standards Board index  125
Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures  128
World Economic Forum 
Stakeholder Capitalism  Metrics  133
Employee data summary  138Governance and 
accountabilityESG disclosure index
 Social impact Environmental sustainabilityESG strategy Introduction
2022 Integrated Performance Report 2 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
Introduction
In a time of significant global challenge and change, we 
remain dedicated to our Mission to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life — guided by environmental, social, and governance (ESG) priorities that put people first. Our 95,000+ full-time employees share our vision to boldly attack the most challenging health problems facing humanity through innovative technological solutions. Together, we engineer the extraordinary.
About this report  4
Letters to our stakeholders  5The year at a glance  7Our business  9Our impact: Employee stories  13
2022 Integrated Performance Report 3 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
2022 Integrated Performance Report 4 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
About this report
The Medtronic 2022 Integrated Performance 
Report reflects the Medtronic material environmental, social, and governance (ESG) topics in alignment with leading reporting frameworks and standards, including the Global Reporting Initiative; the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board; the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures; and the World Economic Forum Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics, which are detailed in our ESG disclosure index.
Unless otherwise stated, all performance reporting 
covers our fiscal year (FY) 2022 (FY22), which was May 1, 2021 through April 29, 2022.
This report includes data from Medtronic plc and its 
consolidated subsidiaries. Environmental, health, and safety data are from our manufacturing and research  and development facilities. A third party, ERM CVS, has assured our FY20, FY21, and FY22 health and safety data as well as our FY22 greenhouse gas and water data.
In some instances, reported data may be best estimated 
or rounded.  All financial information is reported in  U.S. dollars.This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, including risks related to difficulties and delays inherent in the development and implementation of plans to achieve our environmental sustainability and social impact goals and objectives; government regulation and general economic conditions; and other risks and uncertainties described in our periodic reports. These reports are on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. In some cases, you can identify the forward-looking statements by words or expressions, such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “looking ahead,” “may,” “plan,” “possible,” “potential,” “project,” “should,” “going to,” “will,” and similar words or expressions, the negative or plural of such words or expressions, and other comparable terminology. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. We do not update our forward-looking statements or any of the information contained in this report, including updates to reflect future events or circumstances.
To provide feedback or request further information, 
please email integratedreport@medtronic.com. 2022 Integrated Performance Report 5 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
Letters to our stakeholders
Chairman and CEO address 
The Medtronic Mission — to alleviate pain, restore health, 
and extend life — unites a diverse, global team of more than 95,000 people whose work transforms the lives of two people every second. And despite the challenges faced over the past year – war in Ukraine, climate change, supply chain disruption, and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic – we maintained our steadfast commitment to carrying out the Mission and increasing our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) efforts. 
I am proud to share our FY22 ESG progress and 
performance, which recaps our work across important areas, including accelerating patient access and equity; creating life-transforming healthcare; fostering inclusion, diversity, and equity (ID&E); and furthering our environmental sustainability.
Accelerating patient access and equity
In the past year, Medtronic therapies improved the lives of more than 76 million people, yet many communities around the world still lack access to care. We use data and technology to address this global crisis of health inequity, streamlining detection, diagnosis, and treatment to fill the gap between the number of people who need care and the number of practitioners who offer it. This democratizes healthcare and enables healthcare workers to reach more patients with a more personalized approach while increasing accessibility throughout the world. In service of this effort, we dedicated more than $69 million to healthcare capacity training in FY22, reaching 350,000+ global medical professionals who drive access to quality care in their communities. Creating life-transforming healthcare
As a global healthcare technology leader, we use the power of advanced computing, smallest-size-solutions, and hyper-personalization to address unmet patient needs. Our life-transforming technologies treat and diagnose 70 conditions in the areas of cardiovascular, medical surgical, neuroscience, and diabetes care. The past two and a half years have highlighted the challenges facing healthcare systems, but also the opportunities for technology to play a role in a better path forward.  Today, we’re integrating powerful tech capabilities like data science, machine learning, and AI into our devices and solutions to collect data to help clinicians and patients make more informed decisions and drive better outcomes.
To continue evolving our product portfolio, in FY22, we 
invested an all-time high of $2.7 billion in research and development, a 10% increase compared to the previous fiscal year. 
Fostering ID&E is key to innovation
Innovation is a people-powered business. An inclusive workforce unites diverse experiences and perspectives in an environment where they are valued and shared — driving technology forward and empowering all to reach their highest potential. 
A convergence of backgrounds and experiences allows 
us to create life-saving products and therapies that benefit all patients while expanding the number of conditions we can treat. Diversity in leadership is key to this. In FY22, women held 42% of manager-and-above positions globally and people from ethnically diverse groups held 27% of manager-and-above positions in  the United States, which is strong progress toward our FY26 goals of 45% and 30%, respectively.
Furthering environmental sustainability 
A healthy planet is essential to human health and we’re setting bold new goals and steadily marching toward them. Our environmental sustainability efforts directly advance our Mission to be a good corporate citizen while also supporting our sustainable business growth. In FY22, we joined forces with the National Academy of Medicine’s Grand Challenge on Climate Change and the United Kingdom National Health Service to work with organizations around the world to transform systems, such as healthcare, that contribute to, and are impacted by, climate change by building resiliency and minimizing carbon footprints. Last fall, we announced our ambition to achieve net zero emissions across our value chain by FY45. In FY22 alone, we reduced our operational greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 35% compared  to our FY20 baseline. 
Looking forward
At Medtronic, we are engineering the extraordinary for patients around the world. It’s a tremendous opportunity and responsibility we carry. The impact we’re making across all areas of our work inspires me every day as  we push for even more progress. While I know we  have a long way to go, I’m proud of the meaningful progress we’re making. We boldly endeavor to create  a healthier, brighter future for millions. I invite you to  join us on the journey. 
Geoff Martha Chairman and CEO, MedtronicA message from our CFO 
Our employees share our vision to boldly tackle the 
most challenging health problems facing humanity while upholding our reputation as a company of dedication, honesty, integrity, and service. Our ESG priorities directly reflect our vision and values.
The Medtronic Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) 
embeds ESG priorities throughout our operations. As the leader of the SSC, I see our social and environmental progress firsthand. In last year’s report, I announced that we set a number of new ESG performance targets. I’m proud to share our progress toward these targets throughout this report, along with our plans to continue driving progress in FY23 and beyond.
Remaining transparent on our ESG progress and 
performance is key to the success of our ESG priorities and preserving shareholder confidence. In addition to reporting on all of our ESG material topics, we also supply responses to best practice reporting frameworks in the ESG Disclosure Index. These frameworks include the Global Reporting Initiative, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, and the World Economic Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics.
Our Mission empowers insight-driven care and better 
outcomes for our world. Our ESG efforts support us in this and in our long-term business success by ensuring we deliver results the right way. I am inspired by the progress our employees made in FY22 and look forward to sharing their continued progress in next year’s report.
2022 Integrated Performance Report 6 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
Letters to our stakeholders
Karen L. Parkhill Executive Vice President and  Chief Financial Officer, Medtronic30 %
of board members were 
women at the end of FY22; this 
increased to 36% following a 
new appointment in June 2022 
20 %
of board members were from 
ethnically diverse backgrounds 
at the end of FY22; this 
increased to 27% following a 
new appointment in June 2022$31.7B 
revenue generated and 92% 
of free cash flow returned to 
shareholders
$1.7B
total strategic investment  
and acquisition spend
Includes acquisitions, additions to property, plant and 
equipment, and net purchases of investments.Net
zero
announced our ambition 
to balance our greenhouse 
gas emissions produced and 
removed from the atmosphere across Scopes 1,2, and 3 by FY45
35 %
reduction in our operational 
greenhouse gas emissions 
intensity compared to our FY20 
baseline, toward our goal of  
50% by FY25 $2.7B
invested in research and 
development, a 10% increase 
compared to FY21 
$97. 1M
combined philanthropic  
investment by Medtronic and  
the Medtronic Foundation9%
reduction in our energy intensity 
compared to our FY20 baseline, 
toward our goal of 20% by FY25
16,500 
MWh of energy and $2.9M in operating costs saved annually 
through energy efficiency 
projects 100 %
ethnically diverse and gender 
pay equity achieved in the  
U.S. and 99% gender pay  
equity globally
36 %
of our U.S. supplier spend, 
totaling nearly $2.7 billion,  
went to small and diverse- 
owned companiesGovernance and accountability Social impact Environmental sustainability
2022 Integrated Performance Report 7 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
The year at a glance2022 Integrated Performance Report 8 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
FY22 RECOGNITION 
Organization Awards
3BL Media 2022 100 Best Corporate Citizens: 41st
Asia Society (2020 Asian 
Corporate Survey, awarded in FY22)Winner — Outreach and Inclusion to Asian Pacific American (APA) Employees during the COVID-19 Crisis; Outreach and Inclusion to APA Employees related to Racial Equity & Social Justice; Supporting the Development of Workforce Skills of APA Employees Under 40; Most Innovative Employer
Runner-up — Overall Best Employer for Asian Pacific Americans
Best Place to Work and 
Great Place to Work® awards
Multiple awards in the United States and globally, including  Fast Company 2021 Best Workplaces for Innovators, Forbes Best Employer for New Graduates, various Great Place to Work® awards, and Glassdoor Best Places to Work in 2022 — see a full list here
DiversityInc 2022 Top 50 Companies for Diversity: Top 10 for the first time
2022 Top Companies for Supplier Diversity: 5th 2022 Top Companies for Environmental, Social, and Corporate Governance: 11th
Dow Jones Sustainability 
Indices (DJSI)DJSI World Index 
DJSI North America Composite Index
Forbes 2021 World’s Best Employers2022 America’s Best Employers for Diversity
Fortune Most Admired Companies
Human Rights Campaign 2022 Corporate Equality Index
Just Capital 2022 America’s Most JUST Companies
Secretary of Defense 2021 Employer Support Freedom AwardTHE YEAR AT A GLANCEWe are a global medical technology leader, 
boldly tackling the world’s most challenging healthcare problems with groundbreaking innovation. Our Mission — to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life — empowers our diverse global team to develop healthcare technologies that transform the lives of two people every second of every hour of every day.We work to solve unmet patient and healthcare needs by engineering extraordinary solutions and therapies that improve or redefine outcomes for more than 70 conditions. We combine a deep understanding of the human body with the power of advanced computing, the smallest-size solutions, and hyper-personalization to develop a range of consumable and implantable products, together with innovative tools and services. As the world continues to grapple with new and evolving healthcare challenges and a growing crisis of health inequity, our commitment is steadfast: create life-transforming technology; empower patient-centric, insight-driven care; and provide experiences that put people first to deliver better outcomes for our world.
Who we are What we do
2022 Integrated Performance Report 9 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
Our business    In pursuit of our Mission, we act across six interrelated tenets:
1
  T
o contribute to human welfare by application 
of biomedical engineering in the research, 
design, manufacture, and sale of instruments or appliances that alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life.
2
  T
o direct our growth in the areas of biomedical 
engineering where we display maximum strength and ability; to gather people and facilities that tend to augment these areas; to continuously build on these areas through education and knowledge assimilation; to avoid participation in areas where we cannot make unique and worthy contributions.
3
  T
o strive without reserve for the greatest 
possible reliability and quality in our products; to be the unsurpassed standard of comparison and to be recognized as a company of dedication, honesty, integrity, and service. 
   4
  T
o make a fair profit on current operations to 
meet our obligations, sustain our growth, and reach our goals.
        5
  
To recognize the personal worth of all 
employees by providing an employment framework that allows personal satisfaction in work accomplished, security, advancement opportunity, and means to share in  the company’s success.
        6
  
To maintain good citizenship as a company.For more than 60 years, we have been guided by our Mission to alleviate pain, 
restore health, and extend life. The Medtronic Mission
2022 Integrated Performance Report 10 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
GLOBAL FOOTPRINT
FY22 net sales to customersOur structure, footprint, 
and strategy 
Our corporate structure consists of three 
portfolios, each containing a range of operating units focused on different disease states or physician specialties, alongside the standalone diabetes operating unit. This structure is designed to enable autonomous decision-making and promote innovation, leading to timely delivery of effective therapies. Our operating unit presidents play a critical role in driving the development of new therapies and solutions and overseeing the work of each business.
2022 Integrated Performance Report 11 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
$11.4 B
Cardiovascular portfolio
$16.1 B
United States
(51%)
Includes the United States  
and U.S. territories.$5.4B
Emerging markets
(17%)
Includes the countries of Africa, Eastern Europe,  
the Middle East, Latin America, and the  
countries of Asia not included in the non-U.S. 
developed markets, as defined right.$10.1B
Non-U.S. developed markets
(32%)
Includes Australia, Canada, Japan, Korea,  
New Zealand, and the countries  
of Western Europe.$2.3B
Diabetes operating unit
$9.1B
Medical surgical portfolio$31.7B
Total net FY22 sales
$8.8B
Neuroscience portfolioMEDTRONIC OPERATING STRUCTURE AND NET FY22 SALES†
InPen requires a 
prescription and proper settings, or you could experience highs/lows. See bit.ly/InPen-Risks.
† T otals do not add up due to rounding.Across every operating unit, we encourage 
and enable our employees to share diverse perspectives, bold thinking, and  a desire to win.
We leverage our business structure to:
•
  Acceler
ate innovation-driven growth —  
by delivering technology and services that 
better address patient needs.
•
  Bring our technologies to emer
ging markets 
— by providing targeted support, along with broad autonomy for regional teams to respond quickly to local needs.
•
  Cr
eate better experiences for patients, 
customers, and employees — by listening more closely to understand challenges and using that insight to shape solutions.
•
  T
urn data, artificial intelligence, and 
automation into action — by tailoring therapies in real time, facilitating remote monitoring and care delivery, and bringing robotics to more surgical suites around the world.
2022 Integrated Performance Report 12 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
OUR COMPANY — FY22 SNAPSHOT
76M+
patients served150+
countries
95,000+
full-time employees239
active clinical trials
$2.7B
invested in R&D49,000+
patents in our portfolioInspired to expand healthcare access 
Karen Shehade, a long-time Physician Assistant, marvels at the 
groundbreaking innovation engineered at Medtronic and is proud to work for a company that improves lives at scale. But the global crisis of health inequity, where many around the world lack access to needed technologies and healthcare, troubles her. She channeled her concern into action by taking on a new role designed to marshal Medtronic resources and address the crisis. As part of her responsibility as senior director of medical affairs in the Americas region, she chairs the newly formed Medtronic Health Equity Advisory Committee (HEAC) in the United States. 
Karen oversees the HEAC in its community-focused approach to 
improving health equity, accelerating access, and overcoming structural and social barriers to quality care. A key part of this work involves gathering robust data on equity of access and outcomes so we can prioritize our efforts, take effective action, and measure our impact. Karen has the clinical experience and skills to help  the HEAC interpret the data and translate learnings into  actions to create a more equitable world.
Read more about the HEAC in Global healthcare access. “Improving patient access and equity 
is pivotal to fulfilling our Mission. 
I’m confident that the work we’re 
undertaking as the HEAC will set a 
foundation for others to use to drive 
equity in quality care and ensure that 
our life-saving technology is accessible 
to all who need it.” 
Karen Shehade 
Chair of the Medtronic Health Equity Advisory Committee 
Senior Director of Medical Affairs, Americas“I feel good being a woman community 
healthcare worker because I start from 
my own family and then go into the 
community. Empower one woman, 
and you empower the entire nation.”
Jane Muthoni 
Patient Engagement Lead,  
Medtronic LABS
 Leading new approaches to patient-first 
healthcare tech
Jane Muthoni, Patient Engagement Lead for Medtronic LABS in 
Kenya, knows firsthand the importance of empowering patients to learn about their conditions and access healthcare services. She has lived with type 1 diabetes since she was six years old and made it her life’s work to educate others living with the disease.
Channeling this passion into her career, Jane works to improve 
health outcomes for people living with non-communicable diseases. She is helping to train more than 300 community health workers (CHWs) — nearly all of whom are women — to screen patients for hypertension and diabetes. 
The training includes use of LABS’ digital health platform, SPICE, 
which was designed for CHWs and healthcare providers operating in low-resource settings. The platform is the first of its kind to track health outcomes and overall population health indicators in real time. Most importantly, it helps to drive sustainable patient outcomes through technology features such as: 
•
  Da
ta-driven patient engagement via SMS, WhatsApp, and more.
•
 T
ele-counseling and telemedicine for remote follow-ups.
•
  P
atient education and care journeys customized for every patient.
The power of CHWs lies in their ability to develop one-on-one 
relationships with patients and providers. Pairing this patient-first approach with the power of tech amplifies the positive impact Jane and the people she trains can have in underserved communities.
Read more about Medtronic LABS in Global healthcare access.
2022 Integrated Performance Report 13 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
Our impact: Employee stories
Our employees are the heart of our company. Their 
diverse backgrounds and perspectives bring passion to our work, spark innovation, and drive opportunity. They empower one another to reach their highest potential and create positive change — helping us fulfill our Mission. Here, we share stories from employees who are at the forefront of our efforts  to enable healthier people and a healthier planet  by engineering the extraordinary.
Catalyzing environmental sustainability 
Driven by a passion for the environment, Shona Kamps, a business process improvement 
analyst for Medtronic Canada, set out to join a group of like-minded colleagues to bolster the company’s sustainability efforts. But when she realized no such organization existed, she and two coworkers founded the employee-led Medtronic Environmental Action Group (EAG). 
Within seven months, the group grew from the three cofounders to more than 1,000 
Medtronic employees globally, and it continues to expand. The EAG is a space for employees to foster environmental sustainability at work and in their personal lives. Volunteers organize events, projects, and workshops on various topics, such as designing more sustainable products and packaging solutions and curtailing digital waste. The global group also collaborates with local Medtronic environmental employee groups around the world, like Ireland‘s Parkmore Eco Team and the Central and Eastern Europe team Together We Care. The EAG is powered by a dedicated core team of volunteer employees who work together across countries and functions to inspire and engage fellow employees to make integrating sustainability a priority within and beyond Medtronic.   
Shona illustrates the power of each individual employee. Her idea and her energy made the EAG 
a reality. The work of its members plays an important part in Medtronic’s sustainability efforts. Turning barriers into 
opportunities
Sarah Nieters has faced barriers in her career 
in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) that are all too common for underrepresented groups. She knows how it feels to be the only woman at a conference for information technology (IT) executives, and she watched a high school advisor dismiss her daughter’s desire to apply to a top engineering school. These experiences might have left her dispirited, but instead, she was inspired. 
Sarah — an IT vice president at Medtronic — 
was instrumental in developing an internship partnership with Genesys Works — a nonprofit that expands career pathways for talented high school students from underrepresented groups.
Veronica Venegas is one of many who have 
found the internship pivotal. After completing her IT internship, she was the first in her family to graduate college and will soon begin a full-time position at Medtronic. 
To date, more than 300 high school students 
have completed IT internships at Medtronic. In FY22, 57% were women and 98% were Black, Indigenous, and people of color. Learn more  about Sarah’s contribution here.“One of the real barriers 
that I see is access. Once 
the door is opened, it’s 
up to the student to take 
advantage of that, and 
you can see that they do.”
Sarah Nieters 
Medtronic executive sponsor of  
the Genesys Works partnership 
IT Vice President
 
“This kind of experience 
is life-changing to 
students like me. I think 
that it’s an awesome  
way to get students of 
color and women into 
STEM fields.”
Veronica Venegas 
previous participant in the  
Medtronic IT internship program“The Environmental Action Group gives Medtronic 
employees a launching pad to learn about environmental 
sustainability and empower their ideas for impact within 
our company and their work. The global engagement 
we are seeing showcases the shift in culture needed 
to integrate environmental sustainability in the core of 
businesses in every industry.”
Shona Kamps 
EAG cofounder, Business Process Improvement Analyst, Medtronic Canada
2022 Integrated Performance Report 14 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Introduction
OUR IMPACT: EMPLOYEE STORIES
ESG strategy
Our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) strategy defines and 
drives our sustainability efforts. We prioritize action on our most material issues, supported by robust governance, risk assessment, accountability,  and ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders.
Material issues and targets  16 
 Sustainability governance  
18 
Stakeholder engagement  20 
 C
ontribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals  23 
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 15 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
Our material issues
We focus our ESG strategy on the issues that:
•
 Ar
e aligned with our Mission.
•
 Ar
e important to our stakeholders.
•
  Have potential to significantly affect our business 
gr
owth, finances, or reputation.
We regularly review material issues1 by monitoring 
and assessing internal and external expectations. 
During our most recent materiality assessment in FY19, we consulted with key stakeholders to update and prioritize our list of material issues. These stakeholders included Medtronic leaders, investors, policymakers, governments, customers, industry association representatives, and nongovernmental organizations. 
Our materiality assessment highlighted three significant 
areas where we can drive positive change: innovation and healthcare access; patient safety and product quality; and inclusion, diversity, and equity (ID&E).  Each area has a senior executive who sets companywide performance objectives and collaborates internally to monitor and advance progress.
The following table shows how our full list of material 
issues aligns with the tenets of our Mission.MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES AND OUR MISSION 
Mission Material issue
Tenet 1: Contribute to human welfare by alleviating pain, 
restoring health, and extending life
Tenet 2: Direct growth in areas of biomedical engineering 
through education and knowledge assimilation•
 Innova
tion and access
•
 Integr
ated care
Tenet 3: Strive without reserve for the greatest possible reliability and quality in our products and recognition as a company of dedication, honesty, integrity, and service•
 P
atient safety and product quality
•
 T
echnology and device security
•
 Da
ta privacy and security
•
 Ethics in sales and mark
eting
•
 C
orruption and bribery
•
 T
ransparency
Tenet 4: Make a fair profit by meeting our obligations, sustaining our growth, and reaching our goals•
 Affor
dability and fair pricing
•
 Clima
te risk and resilience
•
 R
esponsible supply management
•
 P
roduct stewardship
Tenet 5: Recognize the personal worth of all employees by advancing opportunity•
 ID&E
•
 T
alent
Tenet 6: Maintain good citizenship as a company As a good corporate citizen, we use all of our resources, including philanthropy and community investment, to address our material ESG issues.
1  T hroughout this report, we use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) definition of 
materiality, which is different from the definition used for filings with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC). Topics identified as material for purposes of this report may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes.Material issues and targets
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 16 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
In early FY22, we set new ESG performance targets to 
drive progress on our material issues. We also announced a new ambition to be net zero across our value chain by FY45.
Alongside the targets listed here, we have two product 
stewardship targets focused on packaging:
•
  By FY25,
 reduce packaging waste by 25% for targeted 
high-volume products (tied to weight, material 
selection, and sourcing) compared to an FY21 baseline.
•
  By FY27,
 minimize the impact of Instructions for  
Use through a 35% paper reduction, compared to an FY21 baseline.
These targets are quantitative but require us to achieve qualitative milestones first to enable accurate measurement of progress. We will begin reporting on progress toward these targets in future reports. Read more about our packaging efforts in Product stewardship.ESG TARGETS AND PROGRESS
Category Target Baseline 
dateEnd 
dateCurrent status 
toward target
Climate risk and resilience Reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 50% FY20 FY25 35%
Innovation and access 20% of Medtronic revenue will flow from products and 
therapies released in the prior 36 monthsPrior 36  
monthsFY25 19%
Innovation and access Serve 85 million patients annually N/A FY25 76.3 million
Patient safety and  
product qualityAchieve 10% reduction in aggregate product 
complaint rate for identified product families†FY20 FY25 10%
ID&E 45% of global manager-and-above positions held by womenN/A FY26 42%
ID&E 30% of U.S. manager-and-above positions held by ethnically diverse talentN/A FY26 27%
Responsible supply 
managementAssess suppliers representing 80% of our annual 
managed spend on sustainability performanceN/A FY26 66%
Responsible supply 
managementGrow our procurement with U.S. diverse-owned 
suppliers by 5% year-over-year through FY26 FY22 FY22 29%
†  The goal covers the following products: Transcatheter Aortic valves and delivery systems, Venous Closure Systems, Spinal Cord Stimulation systems, Mazor Robot, SigniaTM handles, Puritan BennettTM 980 ventilator, and Diabetes NGP pumps and sensors.  
We are focusing on these product families because they represent strategic opportunities to positively influence complaint rate and patient experience through new product introductions and post-release changes. We continuously evaluate opportunities  
to reduce complaints and improve the patient experience. As opportunities are identified we may expand the scope of this commitment in future years. This target is an aggregate percent reduction from FY20 to FY25. Therefore, annual progress toward  this target prior to FY25 does not represent achieving or missing the target.MATERIAL ISSUES AND TARGETS
Net zero
In FY22, we announced a new 
ambition to be net zero across  
our value chain by FY45.
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 17 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
Robust governance structures and processes underpin our sustainability strategy:
•
  T
he Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our board of 
directors oversees our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices 
and regularly reviews ESG topics that are a priority for the company, as do other board committees, as appropriate. 
•
  Our 
Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) works to embed sustainability 
throughout our operations. Led by our chief financial officer, the SSC comprises executive committee members from across the company who oversee our ESG progress and performance, alongside vice presidents  who lead ESG focus areas or whose work is informed by ESG.
•
  An 
SSC subcommittee governs ESG disclosures and strengthens data  
controls to aid more robust and effective reporting.
We also partner with external organizations working to strengthen  sustainability governance, data, and disclosure practices. In FY22, for example, we participated in an Enterprise Data Management Council project on best practices in ESG data management and were part of the working group  drafting a white paper on the same topic.
In FY22, we enhanced our remuneration practices to link executive  
compensation to inclusion, diversity, and equity (ID&E) performance.  Read more here. 
Managing risks and creating opportunities
By continually monitoring emerging sustainability issues, we can anticipate business risks and create value from opportunities. The following tables summarize our current key ESG risk and opportunity areas, along with  our response.
More detail about our most significant business risks is included in our  
2022 Form 10-K and quarterly 10-Q filings with the U.S. Securities and  Exchange Commission.MANAGING RISK THROUGH ESG 
Risk Response 
Patient safety and  
product quality issuesAligned with our commitment to produce safe and effective healthcare technologies for patients, we examined end-to-end quality performance and are making sustainable improvements to ensure we deliver on our Mission.
In FY22, we launched an updated cross-functional, enterprise quality plan established to drive improvement 
and enhance our quality performance — including driving consistency and increased rigor across the areas  of risk assessment, product design, and quality systems.
Climate risk and resilience We manage transitional risks by monitoring climate change regulation and treaties, as well as regulations on carbon emissions (including carbon taxes), and continue to install renewable and alternative energy sources as they become more cost-effective and readily available. In preparation for the global transition to a zero-carbon economy, we announced a new ambition to be net zero across our value chain by FY45.
We manage physical location risks through business continuity management, including hurricane readiness 
planning, infrastructure improvement, and risk-exposure analyses that encompass hurricanes, earthquakes, and water stress impacts.
Business impact of unforeseen ethical,  social, and environmental regulationsOur Government Affairs; Human Resources; Communications; Environmental, Health and Safety; and Procurement groups monitor relevant regulations in global markets. Our legal and compliance teams advise on compliance. We share our perspectives with industry organizations and regulators and prepare for potential and emerging regulations.
Failure to meet stakeholder  or regulatory expectations  of our ESG performance We strive to meet or surpass expectations and requirements of our ESG and sustainability performance.  We actively solicit input from stakeholders concerning our performance related to product stewardship, human rights, ethical conduct, environmental responsibility, climate change, healthcare access, ID&E,  and more.
Annual and transparent communications on our ESG performance are key to meeting stakeholder 
expectations. During the development of our annual Integrated Performance Report, we assess our  ESG disclosures for alignment with best practice and evolving stakeholder needs. We are enhancing our  data collection and reporting processes in preparation to meet emerging regulatory expectations. Sustainability governance
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 18 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
DRIVING VALUE THROUGH ESG 
Opportunity Response 
Leading the industry in meaningful 
innovation, patient-centered, insight-driven healthcare, value-based partnerships, and business efficiencyWe stay alert to emerging technological innovations and invest in research and development to bring effective, value-driven products and services to market.
We work across healthcare pathways to develop efficient, effective systems and business models.We combine scientific and medical intelligence to advance innovation that impacts patients’ lives.We continue to increase our operational efficiency, sharing our learning with partners and suppliers.
Increasing accessibility and availability  
of our products and servicesWe form bold, impactful partnerships with local, national, and international organizations to accelerate global access to lifesaving therapies.
We invest in programs to improve healthcare infrastructure and educate patients and healthcare professionals.
Deepening support and expanding 
growth opportunities for our employeesWe make robust and broad-ranging professional development programs available to all employees, and we champion ID&E throughout our organization and in our communities.
We recognize and reward employees’ talents and dedication through competitive pay and comprehensive benefits. 
These efforts help us attract and retain diverse top talent so we can continue to offer innovative healthcare solutions.
Capturing cost savings and building organizational resilience through environmentally responsible operationsWe work to increase the proportion of our operational energy supply from renewable sources and on-site generation. Doing so delivers cost savings, reduces our carbon footprint, and makes our business more resilient  to external shifts in energy pricing and supply.
We implement new programs and improved practices targeting water conservation and reducing the amount of 
waste generated by our manufacturing and commercial locations.
Maintaining open engagement with community organizations, nonprofits, patients, and health systemsWe work to open the dialogue across our value chain to listen, learn, and adapt our response to what is right for the community and address issues of inequity worldwide.
Our new Health Equity Advisory Committee (HEAC) in the U.S. shares best practices on customer engagement and 
collaborates to help shape strategy and solutions that will be scalable and sustainable and have a measurable impact.
Meeting customer demand for more sustainable products and servicesWe prioritize product quality, safety, and reliability and seek opportunities to reduce product environmental  footprint at every life cycle stage. 
We align our product stewardship activities with relevant standards and regulations, including working to minimize 
the use of materials of concern as defined under a variety of global regulatory requirements.SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 19 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
Collaboration and communication are essential to 
carrying out our Mission. We talk to, work with, and learn from our stakeholders and peers in several ways to amplify our impact, understand and share expectations, and be held accountable for our actions and outcomes. Specifically, we:
•
  Shar
e information, hold ourselves accountable, and 
seek feedback on our approach and performance.
•
  C
ommunicate our expectations and standards to 
employees, suppliers, and partners.
•
  Shar
e expertise and knowledge through training and 
capacity building.
•
  P
rovide support through Medtronic Foundation 
programs, volunteerism, giving, disaster relief, and 
other channels.
•
  W
ork with others to develop new products and 
broaden healthcare access.
The following tables share examples of stakeholder engagement in FY22 and resulting outcomes. Further examples are provided throughout this report.KEY FY22 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
Stakeholder Activities Outcomes 
Healthcare professionals  
and administratorsInvested $69 million in healthcare professional training Trained more than 350,000 medical professionals
Trained physicians on our life-saving technologies, even 
when travel was restricted, with Medtronic Mobile Labs
Patients and patient  advocacy groupsSpent $6.7 million on education for patients
Launched the Medtronic Discovery app, designed to recruit 
participants, communicate with them, and collect data throughout large-scale clinical studies conducted remotelyHelped patients stay up to date with current treatments and technology to help them achieve better outcomes
Shareholders Held quarterly calls about business health, including updates to our innovation pipeline and ongoing response to global issues
Conducted ongoing dialogue with many of our institutional 
investors and held specific conversations regarding input on governance, executive compensation, and strategic issues
Hosted our inaugural ESG Investor Briefing event, where 
Medtronic leaders discussed key ESG areas important to the company and its investors Incorporated feedback into our decision-making processes
Suppliers and distributors Became a member of CDP Supply Chain, a consortium of global companies working to help 40,000 suppliers quantify their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and other components of their environmental sustainability measures
Piloted a new Supplier Risk Mapping technology tool that allows 
us to analyze suppliers on risks related to their geographic location, industry, and the amount we spend with them annually Involved 46 suppliers and 21 category managers in inaugural CDP Supply Chain training programs
Evaluated and assigned inherent risk scores to 6,000 of our  
Tier 1 suppliers Stakeholder engagement
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 20 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
KEY FY22 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
Stakeholder Activities Outcomes 
Employees Developed flexible working models for employees
Invested $49 million in employee learning and 
development, up from $45 million in FY21
Created Environmental Action Group led by 
employees to educate and share resources on individual behaviors and systemic changes that can improve our environmental footprint
Supported learning, community events, and tailored 
development activities for all dimensions of diversity through our ERGs and Diversity Networks, with  34,000 employees engaged across 75 countriesOffered hybrid-working arrangements to employees as  offices reopen
Provided employees access to 32,000 learning resourcesAchieved world class scores for employee engagement  
and inclusion
Received survey feedback that 90% of responding employees 
feel proud to work at Medtronic
Registered 1,000 Environmental Action Group members in 
seven months
Government regulators and policymakersParticipated in FDA Sterilization Master File  Pilot Program
Continued working with governments, peers, and 
other stakeholders to help shape the digital health policy landscape and inform public policies aimed  at narrowing disparities in healthcare access
Signed a memorandum of understanding with  
the Vietnam Ministry of Health to elevate healthcare professionals’ clinical skill sets in ICU departments and centers, with the aim to train more than  4,000 healthcare professionals in 12 months
Participated in a meeting about the Cancer  
Moonshot initiative launched by U.S. President BidenReceived FDA approval to implement new ethylene oxide process at Steri-Tech site in Puerto Rico
Helped with the treatment of over 500,000 patients annually 
through our partnership with the National Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases in Pakistan
Nongovernmental organizationsMedtronic and the Medtronic Foundation partnered with others to support COVID-19 relief efforts and respond to needs arising from the conflict in Ukraine Impacted more than 2.2 million people positively through the distribution of over 34 million items of medical supplies, equipment, and personal protective equipment (PPE) to support COVID-19 relief efforts with Medtronic Foundation partners
Contributed $97.1 million, including $6.7 million to support 
Ukraine, through Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 21 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
KEY FY22 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
Stakeholder Activities Outcomes 
Local communities Continued to cocreate healthcare 
delivery with local stakeholders and underserved communities through Medtronic LABS
Drove equity within our communities 
through Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation partnerships and initiatives led by our employee resource groups (ERGs)
Developed a pipeline for STEM 
careers in local communities through investments in OneTen, the Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF), Multiple Pathways Initiative (MPI), and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
Enabled employee volunteerism 
through the Medtronic Foundation
Became members of MedTech Color 
to expand diversity in clinical trialsExpanded Medtronic LABS Empower Health program throughout Kenya, nearly doubling its current patient  impact in the country
Created new internship opportunities 
and removed four-year degree requirements for some STEM careers
Peers and partners Partnered with peers, academics,  and others to increase access to,  and security of, vital therapies  and solutions 
Teamed with Optum, Boston 
Scientific, and Abbott Laboratories to help launch the new Center for Medical Device Cybersecurity at the University of Minnesota, which will serve as a hub for discovery, outreach, and workforce trainingLaunched a pilot with Mpirik and Vizient to help more female  and ethnically diverse patients receive preventative treatment for cardiac issues
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 22 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
Contribution to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals
We align our ESG efforts to the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) where we can make the greatest impact. Highlights of FY22 ESG initiatives relevant to the SDGs are shared throughout the report and summarized in the tables.KEY FY22 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SDGs
SDG What we do Our FY22 impact
We create breakthrough medical 
outcomes for patients and health systems and improve access to vital treatments and therapies, transforming the lives of  
two people every second  
of every hour of every day. Our efforts transform standards of quality care, drive economic value, and dismantle structural and social barriers to health equity.•
  Served mor e than 76 million patients, helping to address some of the world’s most complex noncommunicable diseases
•
  Spent $69 million on educa
tion for medical professionals, training more than 350,000 individuals on cardiovascular disease, cancer, 
diabetes, respiratory disease, and more
•
  Scr
eened more than 1.2 million patients globally since FY16 through Medtronic LABS, working to diagnose and treat  
chronic conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, and ear disease
•
  Advoca
ted for universal healthcare coverage by participating in the UHC2030 Private Sector Constituency and UHC2030  
Steering Committee 
•
  Developed a pr
ogram with Mpirik and Vizient to help more female and ethnically diverse patients access preventative treatment  
for cardiac issues
We innovate to improve the health of all women through our therapy design and research. We support female talent through our hiring practices and in our broader ID&E efforts.•
  Achieved 42% women r epresentation in global manager-and-above positions in FY22, toward our goal of 45% by FY26
•
  Achieved 100% ethnically diverse and gender pay equity in the U
.S. and 99% gender pay equity globally 
•
  Had 30% women r
epresentation on our board of directors at the end of FY22; this increased to 36% following a new appointment  
in June 2022 
•
 R
eceived employee engagement scores of 81% for women and 80% for men on our Organizational Health Survey
•
  Had 20% ethnically diverse r
epresentation on our board of directors at the end of FY22; this increased to 27% following 
a new appointment in June 2022
•
  Held inaugur
al Medtronic Supplier Diversity Conference with more than 200 attendees and approximately 150 one-to-one  
sessions between diverse-owned suppliers and Medtronic sourcing managers
•
 Suppor
ted retention of women leaders through third cohort of VP Women’s Sponsorship program
•
 Alloca
ted 70% of Medtronic Foundation grants to diverse-led nonprofit partners
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 23 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
KEY FY22 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SDGs
SDG What we do Our FY22 impact
We work to eliminate 
economic inequities by contributing to sustainable economic growth. We employ and develop talent from underrepresented communities, protect human rights in our supply chain, support diverse suppliers, and extend our economic impact through volunteerism.•  Spent $2.7 billion with small and diverse-owned suppliers in th e United States and Puerto Rico, 
supporting more than 29,000 jobs and generating $4.9 billion in economic production activity
•
  Employed 95,000+ people full-time in mor
e than 150 countries, adding more than $6.3 billion in salary 
and wages to local economies
•
  Achieved 27% ethnically diverse talent in global manager
-and-above positions in the United States, 
toward our goal of 30% by FY26
•
  C
ontinued to bring greater attention and a more powerful voice to our employees from underserved 
populations through our Diversity Networks — in FY22, one in three Medtronic employees were part of a Diversity Network or ERG
•
  P
rovided Responsible Supply Management training to more than 1,300 employees on topics that 
included labor, human rights, human trafficking, and slavery
•
  Audited select high-risk suppliers against our labor standar
ds, including wages and health and safety
•
  Joined the 
Minnesota Business Coalition for Racial Equity to support Black Minnesotans  
in the workplace
•
  Cr
eated internships and removed barriers to STEM careers through investments in OneTen, MPI, TMCF, 
and SHPE
We partner with community experts to build cutting-edge healthcare technologies and promote inclusive and sustainable local innovation. The infrastructure we invest in contributes to a resilient, sustainable health system and fosters the next generation of talent in emerging markets.• Invested $2.7 billion in R&D
•
  Invested in a new innova
tion campus in Colorado, United States that will bring together 1,100 employees 
to further expand our R&D capabilities
•
  R
eceived Best in Show at the 2021 Medical Design Excellence Awards for the LINQ IITM Insertable 
Cardiac Monitoring (ICM) System, and the Medical Device and Diagnostic Industry Readers’ Choice award for the CareLink SmartSync Device Manager
•
  Signed a memor
andum of understanding with the Vietnam Ministry of Health to elevate healthcare 
professionals’ clinical skill sets in ICU departments and centers, with the aim to train more than 4,000 healthcare professionals in 12 months
•
 Advanced our pr
oduct pipeline with 200-plus product regulatory approvals in major geographies†
•  Developed a pr ogram with Mpirik and Vizient to help more female and ethnically diverse patients access 
preventative treatment for cardiac issues
† Major geographies include China, Europe, Japan, and the United States.
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 24 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
KEY FY22 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SDGs
SDG What we do Our FY22 impact
We strive to maximize 
patient safety and reduce the environmental footprint of our operations, product design, and manufacture.•
   C ollected more than 6.2 million products and diverted 280 metric tons of product 
waste from landfill
•
  Empower
ed each facility to set and achieve their own energy reduction goals  
in line with overall corporate goals
•
 Launched Sustainability Development C
enter to reduce packaging waste 
•
  F
ormed a new Patient Safety and Risk Board — composed of senior medical,  
quality, and regulatory corporate leaders — to evaluate and advise on safety  and quality issues
We recognize the connection between a healthy planet and human health, and we work to find innovative ways to reduce our carbon footprint.•
  Set new ambition to be net zer o across our value chain by FY45
•
  Developed a Decarboniza
tion Roadmap to plan for carbon reductions over time
•
  R
educed operational carbon emissions intensity 35% compared to our  
FY20 baseline
•
  C
ontinued working toward carbon neutrality in our operations by FY30, including 
sourcing 16% of our energy from renewable and alternative sources compared to  our FY20 baseline
To drive greater collective change inside and outside the health system, we partner with businesses, the UN, health systems, and local governments. •
   C ontinued using the UN Economic Commission for Europe self-assessment tool 
for “people first” public-private partnerships to help us evaluate our partnerships against key issues, such as access and equity, fiscal and environmental sustainability, replicability, and stakeholder engagement
•
  Engaged in par
tnerships with nonprofits and governments via Medtronic 
Foundation to improve lives for underserved and underrepresented populations worldwide and supported communities in which Medtronic employees live and give, including the investment of $16 million to address racial disparities and advance social justice in the United States
•
  C
ontinued partnering with peers, innovators, healthcare systems, and others 
globally to deliver solutions matched to local need and develop new approaches to increasing access to our treatments, for example, our affiliation with MedTech Color through which we foster racial and ethnic diversity in Medtronic clinical trials 
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 25 Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 ESG strategy
Environmental
 sustainability
Staying true to our Mission to improve human welfare depends on a healthy environment 
that can sustainably support human life. We are committed to doing our part to reduce our environmental impact by setting ambitious goals to achieve net zero emissions and minimize our natural resource consumption. Our facilities and sustainability programs streamline our operational resource use. Externally, we are working with our suppliers to help them measure and reduce their emissions. 
FY22 environmental sustainability highlights  27
Climate risk and resilience  28Reducing our operational footprint  30Product stewardship  37
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 26 ESG strategy Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Environmental sustainability
Net zero
announced our ambition to balance our 
greenhouse gas emissions produced and 
removed from the atmosphere across 
Scopes 1,2, and 3 by FY45
35 %
reduction in our operational greenhouse gas 
emissions intensity compared to our FY20 
baseline, toward our goal of 50% by FY25 
9%
reduction in our energy intensity compared  
to our FY20 baseline, toward our goal of  
20% by FY25 14 %
reduction in our water use intensity  
compared to our FY20 baseline,  
achieving our goal of 15% by FY25 
15 %
reduction in our waste intensity  
compared to our FY20 baseline, nearing  
our goal of 15% by FY25 
16,500 
MWh of energy and $2.9M in operating costs saved annually through energy efficiency projectsAssurance 
completed by a third-party of our FY22 greenhouse gas and water data
18
completed contracts for new renewable generation projects that will provide  
an additional capacity of 56,700 MWh  per year
6M+
products taken back, diverting  more than 280 metric tons of  
waste from landfillsScope 3 
emissions management and tracking  
by joining the CDP Supply Chain,  
a consortium of global companies  aimed at helping quantify the  
environmental footprint of suppliers
Partnered with England’s National Health 
Service and the U.S. National Academy 
of Medicine to find ways to reduce the 
healthcare industry’s carbon emissions
Launched the Sustainability Development 
Center to lead efforts to reduce waste and 
eliminate targeted chemicals of concern in 
product packagingFY22 highlightsENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
27 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexClimate risk 
and resilience
Adding business value
Understanding the potential impacts of climate change helps us 
adapt as global circumstances evolve and prepare for possible business disruption, making us more resilient in the long term. At the same time, we are committed to doing our part to combat climate change. We are working to reduce emissions and have set an ambition to be net zero by FY45. Through identifying the most efficient roadmap to net zero, we can reduce the cost of this transition to our business while continuing to develop life-saving technologies.ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Image taken by Andrew Juelich in Torres Del Paine, Chile. Andrew is an EHS Specialist at 
Medtronic and winner of our Environmental Action Group Earth Week photo contest. Medtronic serves over 150 countries around the 
world, addressing pervasive health problems with our innovative technologies. The acceleration of climate change poses serious threats to communities worldwide and exacerbates poor health outcomes. These include disease, migration, and food scarcity caused by more extreme droughts, floods, storms, and fires. In its most recent Global Risks Report, the World Economic Forum found that “climate action failure” ranked as the most severe global risk throughout the next 10 years.
To reduce our environmental footprint and 
mitigate these risks to our business, we adopted an enterprise strategy to drive coordinated action across the company to help address climate change.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
28 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexAs a global healthcare technology leader committed 
to delivering better outcomes for patients around the world, we are mindful of how climate change can affect our business, the healthcare industry, and the millions of patients we serve, both today and in the future. Limiting our impact on the environment is a priority.
In FY22, we announced our ambition to achieve net 
zero emissions across Scopes 1, 2, and 3 by FY45. This decision was driven, in part, by our partnerships with England’s National Health Service and the U.S. National Academy of Medicine to help reduce the healthcare industry’s impact on the environment. To achieve this ambition, we created a Decarbonization Roadmap that outlines our focus areas — operations, supply chain, and logistics — where we intend to set reduction targets through the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Read more about the roadmap and the steps we are taking to reduce our emissions on page 31.
To learn more about our climate-related risks and 
opportunities, read our FY22 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) report, 2022 CDP Climate disclosure, and Corporate Climate Change Statement.CLIMATE RISK AND RESILIENCE
Leading for a greener healthcare industry
Globally, the healthcare industry is responsible for 4.5% of carbon emissions, and that percentage 
jumps to 8.5% in the United States. Recognizing the need to be part of a collaborative solution, Medtronic partnered with England’s National Health Service (NHS) and the U.S. National Academy of Medicine (NAM) in FY22 on initiatives to reduce carbon emissions in the healthcare industry. Through our memberships in the International Leadership Group for a Net Zero NHS and the NAM Action Collaborative to Decarbonize the U.S. Health Sector, we are actively fostering climate ambitions and sharing learnings that drive broader greenhouse gas emissions reductions.
Net zero
In FY22, we announced our 
ambition to achieve net zero 
emissions across Scopes 1,2, 
and 3 by FY45.
Lord Prior (left) and Geoff Martha,  
Medtronic Chairman and CEO (right)
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
29 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index35 %
reduction in operational greenhouse  
gas (GHG) emissions intensity  
compared to our FY20 baseline,  
toward our goal of 50% by FY25
9%
reduction in energy intensity  
compared to our FY20 baseline,  
toward our goal of 20% by FY2514 %
reduction in water use intensity  
compared to our FY20 baseline, nearly 
achieving our goal of 15% by FY25
16,500 
MWh of energy saved per year  
through our energy reduction  
efforts, reducing our annual  operating costs by $2.9M Reducing our 
operational footprintAdding business value
Proactively managing our carbon footprint 
and natural resource use enables us to manufacture products more efficiently; increase the resiliency of our supply chain; and meet the expectations of our global stakeholders on environmental issues.ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
We are committed to implementing policies 
and responsible practices to minimize operational impacts on the environment and play our part in safeguarding the planet. Guided by our Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Policy and EHS management system, our Global EHS and Energy teams lead our coordinated enterprise strategy focused on using resources responsibly and reducing the energy, emissions, water, and waste footprints of our operations.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
30 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexPROGRESS TOWARD OUR GOALS 
(Compared to FY20 baseline†) 
FY22  
progressFY25 
goal
Reduction in GHG 
emissions intensity‡ 35% 50%
Reduction in  energy intensity9% 20%
Energy sourced from renewable and alternative sources
16% 50%
Reduction in  waste intensity15% 15%
Reduction in water usage intensity14% 15%
†   FY20 baselines ar e: GHG emissions intensity 10.67 metric tons CO 2e/$ million 
revenues; energy use intensity 29.43 MWh/$ million revenues; energy sourced from 
renewable and alternative sources 121 MWh/14% (excluding RECs/offsets); total waste intensity 1,170 metric tons/$ billion revenues; and water use intensity 65 cubic meters/$ million revenues.
‡  T he percent reduction includes actual reductions and purchased credits, normalized 
by revenue.
Note: In FY22, we adjusted our FY20 GHG baseline from 9.60 metric tons CO 2e/$ 
million to 10.67 metric tons CO 2e/$ million to reflect the corrections found during our 
program assessment and assurance review. Our FY22 data was assured by ERM CVS.REDUCING OUR OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT
Environmental goals
We continue to pursue our FY25 performance goals 
to reduce our environmental footprint. Our goals are focused on the areas of GHG emissions, energy, water, and waste intensities – measured against an FY20 baseline. Curbing emissions and energy use
Net zero and decarbonization 
In FY22, we announced our ambition to achieve net  zero GHG emissions across our value chain by FY45. This aspiration builds on the goals we set in FY20 to be carbon neutral in our owned and operated facilities by FY30. Our FY30 carbon neutral goal covers our Scope 1 emissions (facility and fleet fuel use) and Scope 2 emissions (operational electricity consumption), while our FY45 net zero ambition includes the Scope 1 and 2 emissions plus the Scope 3 emissions generated by activities outside our direct control that are related  to our business. 
A coordinated enterprise strategy to meet our net 
zero ambition is in development, guided by our Decarbonization Roadmap. Established in FY22, this roadmap aims to reduce emissions across our value chain through three focus areas:
1.
 
 Oper
ational carbon neutrality by FY30 – we plan  
to neutralize our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
increasing energy efficiency and transitioning to cleaner electricity.
2.
 
 Supply chain GHG emissions r
eduction – we will 
reduce our Scope 3 emissions by establishing science-based targets, adjusting purchasing criteria, collaborating with suppliers through CDP Supply Chain, and more.
3.
 
 Ongoing logistics impr
ovements – we will reduce our 
Scope 3 emissions through innovation in packaging, shipping, fuels, and vehicles and by working with aligned carriers.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
31 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
SCOPE 1, 2, AND 3 EMISSIONS
l  Scope 1 
  All dir
ect GHG emissions from 
fuels and refrigerants
l  Scope 2 
  Indir
ect GHG emissions from 
consumption of purchased 
electricity, heat, or steam 
 Sour
ce: Greenhouse Gas  
(GHG) Protocoll  Scope 3 
  Other indir
ect emissions, such 
as the extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels, procured transport-related services, electricity-related activities (e.g., T&D losses) that are not covered in Scope 2, outsourced activities, waste disposal, etc.electricity, 
steam, 
heating and 
cooling for 
own usecompany
facilities
company 
vehicles
Upstream activities Reporting company Downstream activitiespurchased 
goods 
and servicesfuel and
energy
relatedtransportation
and 
distributionwaste
from
operationsbusiness
travelemployee
commutingleased
assetsScope 3
indirectScope 2
indirectScope 1
directCH 2N2O
SF 6PFCsHFCs
CO 2Scope 3
indirect
capital
goodsprocessing
of sold
productstransportation
and 
distribution
use of
sold
productsend-of-life
treatment
of sold
productsleased
assetsfranchises investmentsl Energy efficiency
l On-site renewables
l  Electric utility renewables
l  e-green certified credit (electric)
l Carbon offset (fuel)
l Virtual power-purchase agreements
l Fossil fuel energyFY25100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
FY20Percent of our total energy use
FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 FY30REDUCING OUR OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT
GHG emissions
Our combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG for FY22 were 
approximately 285,000 MT CO2e — a nearly 5% absolute 
decrease from last year and approximately a 10% decrease in intensity over the same period. FY22 is the first year our emissions data has been externally assured by ERM CVS.
Supply chain
In FY22, we became members of CDP Supply Chain, a consortium of more than 280 global companies, representing a combined spend of $6.4 trillion, working to help 40,000 suppliers quantify their GHG emissions. We asked our top 101 suppliers by managed spend to measure and disclose their GHG emissions through CDP , with support from CDP and Medtronic. The CDP membership will help us better understand our Scope 3 emissions related to our suppliers and inform the development of our science-based targets. The  process will also help suppliers identify climate risks  and opportunities to reduce their climate impact.  More broadly, it will improve supply chain transparency and encourage broader GHG emissions disclosure  and reduction.
In early FY23, we held training webinars to support 
suppliers as they began the CDP disclosure process. The next steps in the process include calculating and disclosing emissions, setting reduction targets, and facilitating collaboration between suppliers and customers to reduce emissions. We look forward to sharing more about this initiative as it develops. To learn more about how we assess the environmental footprint of our suppliers, read Supply chain responsibility.GHG emissions  
(absolute)†
MT CO 2e (thousands)
l  Scope 1  
(natural gas, fuels, refrigerants)‡ 
l  Scope 2  (electricity, district cooling)299.0
284.7308.6
FY20 FY21 FY2292.1
94.989.8
206.9189.8218.79.9
9.010.7
FY20 FY21 FY223.1
3.03.1
6.96.07.6
†  Totals may not add up due to rounding. 
FY22 data has been externally assured by ERM CVS.
‡  FY20 and FY21 da ta has been recast due 
to improvements in how we track and calculate our GHG emissions.35 %
reduction in GHG emissions  
intensity compared to  
our FY20 baselineGHG emissions  
(intensity)†
MT CO 2e/$ million revenue
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
32 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
OUR PATH TO CARBON NEUTRALITYENERGY CONSERVATION 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Energy conservation projects (#) 79 82 63
Energy conservation savings (MWh/year) 20,920 18,450 16,500 
GHG emissions avoided (MT) 14,791 12,657  11,972
Savings from energy rebates ($ million) 1.1 0.9 0.7
Operating cost savings ($ million) 2.8 2.2  2.9 Medtronic Switzerland 
turns water into energy
Our facility in Tolochenaz, Switzerland, 
completed and launched its aquathermal energy project in FY22. Medtronic partnered with an energy firm and the municipality to carry out the highly sophisticated project, which involved installing a complex system of underwater and underground pipes. The system pumps water from a nearby lake through the pipes to provide renewable heating and cooling to Medtronic facilities.Powering up in Galway
One of our newest on-site renewable projects launched at our Mervue facility in Galway, Ireland. The facility boasts 1,000 solar panels, a rooftop array that will generate 340 MWh of electricity annually — enough to cover approximately 20% of the site’s total electricity demand.
REDUCING OUR OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT
Energy management
We continuously look for opportunities to improve 
energy efficiency, identifying ways to reduce energy use across operations globally. In FY22, we completed more than 60 energy efficiency projects, including updating HVAC systems and chilled water pumps and installing variable frequency drive pumps to more efficiently power pumps and fans in our buildings. These projects resulted in an annual savings of 16,500 MWh of energy and $2.9 million in operating costs. 
As our energy management work has matured, we 
have completed many near-term priority efficiency projects. We are now turning our focus to longer-term projects, leveraging the wealth of data we collect on our operational energy use. Teams on-site at our facilities include energy reduction in their overall site goals, informed by monthly scorecards they receive on their energy usage. The Global Energy and Corporate EHS teams oversee the program, providing each facility with guidance on best practices and sharing success stories. We expect this data-driven phase to deliver significant efficiency gains over time.Renewables and on-site generation
Our long-standing commitment to sourcing and generating renewable energy predates our net zero strategy and forms a key component of our path to carbon neutrality. We have adopted a diversified portfolio of low-carbon energy sources by purchasing green electricity from the grid, generating our own renewable electricity on-site, leveraging renewable energy credits and carbon offsets, and pursuing virtual power-purchase agreements (VPPAs). 
In FY22, we used more than 136,600 MWh of renewable 
electricity — accounting for nearly 26% of our total electricity usage. One of our newest on-site renewable projects in Galway, Ireland, generates roughly 20% of its total energy demand through a rooftop solar array. In FY22, we completed contracts for 18 new renewable generation projects that will go live in FY23, providing an additional capacity of 56,700 MWh per year. We also generated more than 70,000 MWh of energy on-site,  a decrease of 13% compared to FY21. This decrease  is primarily due to the temporary retirement of our North Haven, Connecticut, cogeneration capability while it is updated to increase the site’s power resiliency. Our carbon offset and renewable energy credit purchases amounted to more than 25,600 MT CO
2e 
and 108,200 MWh, respectively. 
We continue to deepen our commitment to clean energy 
through longer-term projects, such as funding larger on-site renewable projects and accelerating our transition to PPAs and VPPAs. In FY22, we added a new approach to our sourcing strategy: transitioning fossil-fuel-powered equipment, like HVAC and refrigeration systems, to electric power.
Energy use
MWh (thousands)
888.4 901.6 896.7
FY20 FY21 FY2212.3% 15.2% 12.1%   Percent of total 
energy that is renewable electricity
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
33 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexOn-site energy 
generation
MWhOperating on-site energy generation
MWh – by source
80,999
  76,100† 76,250
FY20 FY21 FY22
†  The decrease in on-site energy 
generation from FY21 to FY22 is primarily a result of the temporary retirement of our North Haven, Connecticut, cogeneration capability.  We are currently repurposing these units to increase the site’s energy resiliency and  reduce power disruptions.
United StatesIreland
ItalySwitzerland
MexicoPuerto Rico
Dominican RepublicREDUCING OUR OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT
OPERATING ON-SITE ENERGY CAPABILITIES 
Type of 
projectInstallation dateEnergy 
generated 
(per year) 
(MWh)Location
Cogen 2011 3,723 Athlone, Ireland
Cogen 2012 2,234 Mirandola, Italy
Trigen 2020 8,322 Mirandola-Bellco, Italy
Solar 2013 286 Santa Rosa, CA
Solar 2018 112 Tijuana, Mexico
Solar 2018 130 Mirandola-Bellco, Italy
Solar 2020 29 Galway, Ireland
Solar 2020 130 Tolochenaz, Switzerland
Solar 2020 585 Mystic, CT
Solar 2020 7,500 Juncos, Puerto Rico
Fuel cell 2013 3,329 Santa Rosa, CA
Fuel cell 2017 12,483 Northridge, CA
Fuel cell 2018 4,161 North Haven, CT
Fuel cell 2020 17,520 North Haven, CT
Aquathermy 2022 9,986 Tolochenaz, SwitzerlandUNDER CONSTRUCTION OR IN DEVELOPMENT,  
ON-SITE ENERGY CAPABILITIES 
Type of projectInstallation dateEnergy 
generated 
(per year) 
(MWh)Location
Trigen 2022 7,446 Juncos, Puerto Rico
Trigen 2022 7,446 Humacao, Puerto Rico
Trigen 2022 7,446 Villalba, Puerto Rico
Trigen 2022 7,446 Ponce, Puerto Rico
Solar 2022 1,300 Mounds View, MN
Solar 2022 260 Tolochenaz, Switzerland
Solar 2022 455 Galway, Ireland
Solar 2022 1,300 Fridley, MN
Solar 2022 450 San Isidro, 
Dominican Republic
Solar 2022 2,600 Rice Creek, MN 
(On-site gardens)
Solar 2023 1,300 North Haven, CT
Solar 2023 1,350 Santa Ana, CA
Solar 2023 650 Danvers, MA
Solar 2024 1,500 Humacao, Puerto Rico
Solar 2024 1,500 Villalba, Puerto Rico
Solar 2024 3,000 Ponce, Puerto Rico5,900
Cogen
37,500
Fuel cells
8,700
Solar
10,000
Aquathermy
8,300
Trigen
Cogen: Cogeneration plants produce electricity and heat, creating two useful 
forms of energy from a single fuel source.
Trigen: Trigeneration plants function similarly to cogen, but additionally channel 
energy into cooling. Also called combined chilling, heat, and power.
Fuel cell: A fuel cell converts the energy from a chemical reaction into electricity.Aquathermy: Aquathermy systems use thermal energy from bodies of water to 
heat or cool.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
34 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexRecycling e-waste in Australia 
Medtronic ANZ partnered with Hoxton Industries,  
an e-waste recycler and social enterprise that employs disadvantaged individuals to safely dismantle and repurpose obsolete Medtronic equipment. In our first  full year, we diverted over 220 metric tons of equipment from landfill through the partnership.Total waste generated  
Metric tonsTotal water use
Cubic meters 
(thousands)
1,763 1,7602,092
FY20 FY21 FY2230,33031,97233,824
FY20 FY21 FY22
Note: Nonregulated waste 
accounts for nearly 90% of total waste, so in FY20, Medtronic moved to a total waste reduction goal by FY25. Note: FY22 water data was externally assured by ERM CVS. REDUCING OUR OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT
Water use and waste
We are always looking for ways to reduce water use and 
waste footprints by focusing on efficiency, minimization, and infrastructure projects across our operations. 
Conserving water
Although our operations are not generally water intensive, we recognize the global issue of water scarcity and the potential for water availability to become a critical issue in some regions. For this reason, we track water use at all our owned sites. In FY22, we used  1.76 million cubic meters (m
3) of water, achieving a  
14% reduction in water use intensity compared to  our FY20 baseline toward our goal of 15% by FY25. FY22 is the first year our water data has been externally assured by ERM CVS.
To help us focus our water conservation efforts in the 
locations with the highest water risk, we conduct a biennial water stress assessment using WRI’s Aqueduct tools to identify locations that may be impacted by water stress now or in the future. In FY22, we conducted our third assessment on sites that use three million or more gallons of water per year. The results of this assessment were shared with relevant internal stakeholders from facilities, EHS, and business continuity and risk management for planning purposes. All of our manufacturing facilities have set water reduction goals.
More detail on our water use is available in our  
2022 CDP water disclosure. Reducing waste
We continue to follow all local, regional, and national laws and regulations governing the management of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. In FY22, we generated approximately 32,000 MT of waste, a 15% reduction in waste intensity compared to our FY20 baseline, reaching our FY25 goal. 
Although we made significant progress toward 
our FY20 waste intensity goal, our absolute waste increased 5.4% over FY21. The increase is primarily due to manufacturing locations continuing to operate throughout the pandemic with increased frequency of cleaning activities and the added use of personal protective equipment. Our recycling rate remained consistent in FY22 compared with the previous year,  at 49% of the total waste generated.
We proactively manage hazardous waste to prevent 
negative impact to the environment and reduce liability risks. For example, our Australia and New Zealand (ANZ) region recently partnered with an e-waste recycler to repurpose obsolete equipment. To ensure our vendors meet or exceed our standards, we monitor their waste management processes before contracting and throughout our relationship. 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
35 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexREDUCING OUR OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT
Environmental sustainability assurance 
As part of our efforts to drive continuous improvement 
and provide transparency, Medtronic retained an accredited and competent independent organization, ERM CVS, to assess and verify the environmental sustainability data in our FY22 Integrated Report,  our FY22 CDP Water Security disclosure report,  and our FY22 CDP Climate Change disclosure report.
The assessment revealed previously undisclosed  
GHG emissions sources and long-standing accounting errors pertaining to our calculation of GHG emissions.  Subsequently, Medtronic has upgraded our sourcing data and changed our calculation methodology to reassess our FY20 baseline and FY22 GHG emissions data. These changes are accurately reflected in this FY22 Medtronic Integrated Performance Report and have been amended in our FY22 CDP Climate Change disclosure. Despite these changes having a slightly negative impact on our GHG reduction progress, we remain on track to achieve our FY25 goal to reduce operational GHG emissions intensity by 50% from  our FY20 baseline.  
Having successfully completed this assessment, we 
proudly acknowledge the first-time receipt of Letters  of Assurance from ERM CVS for the following:
• 
 FY22 Integr
ated Performance Report – EHS
• 
 FY22 CDP 
Water Security report
• 
 FY22 CDP Clima
te Change amended report  Regulatory compliance
Aligned to our commitment to environmental, health, 
and safety compliance at our sites, we completed several milestones in FY22, beginning with earning ISO 14001 certification for 13 manufacturing sites and earning ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001 certification for two manufacturing sites. We also enhanced our audit program to ISO standards to ensure that all our locations comply with the Medtronic environmental performance management system and local, regional, and national regulations. Audits are conducted on-site and virtually every three or more years, depending on the site’s activities. In FY22, we launched a new self-assessment audit program designed to equip site leads with tools to identify and correct potential cases of noncompliance.
We also underwent 28 environmental compliance 
inspections by relevant authorities. While there were no findings in 27 of the inspections, one agency review resulted in a notice of noncompliance for minor violations that were corrected on-site with no downtime. 
We continue to manage 26 cleanup sites where 
remediation is required due to historical discharges that were permissible during past operations. Two of these sites are included in our ongoing operations, though many result from historical acquisitions. Twenty-two are multiparty sites, meaning Medtronic entities are one of multiple potentially responsible parties addressing site remediation under the applicable state or federal program. Nine have been designated as Superfund sites. 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
36 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexE.U. Registration, 
Evaluation, 
Authorisation,  
and Restriction  
of Chemicals  
(REACH)E.U. Medical  
Device Regulation 
(MDR)Waste  
Framework  
Directive  
requirements for 
substances of very  
high concern,  
via the SCIP 
database
EXTERNAL PRODUCT STANDARDS
We align our product stewardship activities with the following standards and regulations:
California  
Proposition 65,  
see Medtronic 
disclosuresE.U. Directive  
on Restriction  
of Hazardous  
Substances 
(RoHS)Product 
stewardshipAdding business value
By achieving the highest standards of quality, 
safety, and environmental performance in our products, we enhance our reputation and minimize the risk of events that may damage it. With customer focus on product sustainability increasing, we are committed to reducing the environmental footprint of our products and packaging. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Product development at Medtronic 
prioritizes quality, safety, and full compliance with frequently changing regulations. We also seek to minimize the environmental impact and increase the circularity of our products and packaging to meet stakeholder expectations and our environmental protection goals.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
37 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexAward-winning packaging reduction
The packaging development team in our Cranial and Spinal 
Technologies operating unit won the Medtronic 2021 EHS Sustainability Award for innovative reductions to waste on three  spinal care products. The improvements included shifting from  paper to electronic instructions, using fewer standardized components, and enabling product stackability for ease of shipping and storage. The combined environmental savings correspond to a reduction of 143 metric tons of GHG emissions every year.
†  FY20 and FY21 data has been recast due to an update in how we calculate product weights and track 
the number of products collected.  PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Sustainability Development Center 
In FY22, we launched the Sustainability Development 
Center (SDC). With an aim to reduce waste and eliminate targeted materials of concern, the center focuses on streamlining packaging for high-volume products.  The center has already established a core team, set a project roadmap, and began identifying waste and packaging solutions — a firm foundation for its planned continued growth.
The SDC is pursuing two product stewardship targets  
in FY22:
•
  By FY25,
 Medtronic will complete packaging 
improvements to reduce packaging waste by 25% 
for targeted high-volume products (tied to weight, material selection, and sourcing) compared to a  FY21 baseline.
•
  By FY27,
 Medtronic will minimize the impact of 
Instructions for Use (IFUs) through a 35% paper reduction compared to a FY21 baseline. 
By the end of FY22, the SDC had selected five  product families to target for packaging waste  reduction toward our FY25 goal.
1 Minimizing product impacts
Our goal is to lessen the impact of our products throughout their lifetimes. Although the SDC is our center for packaging innovations, our operating units also devote their expertise to creatively reduce impacts from the products they design. 
Where feasible, we collect certain products at their 
end-of-use so they can be safely recycled, refurbished, or reprocessed, as shown in the table right. In FY22, we took back more than 6.2 million products, saving raw materials through remanufacture and diverting more than 280 metric tons of waste from landfill.PRODUCTS COLLECTED THROUGH TAKEBACK  
FY20 FY21 FY22
Number of 
productsMetric  
tonsNumber of 
productsMetric  
tonsNumber of 
productsMetric 
tons
Nellcor sensors
Remanufactured 1,782,368 40.0 2,458,752 49.6 4,791,039 130.1
Recycled 3,950,200 87.4 1,174,553 32.3 1,226,952 33.9
Cardiac Rhythm Management 
patient monitors and accessories†
Refurbished and redeployed 101,737 77.5 150,058 109.6 182,344 101.2
Advanced energy project  zero collections program for  surgical technology
Energy from waste incineration 341,331 40.7 354,193 41.1 94,814 24.5
Annual totals 6,175,636 245.6 4,137,556 232.64 6,295,149 289.7
1  T he product families include: Tri-Staple; Polysorb; Absorbatack; Spinal Implants; 
and Pulse Oximeter. 280+
metric tons collected 
through takeback in FY22 
and diverted from landfills
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
38 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexLowering the impact of device sterilization
We participated in the FDA’s Sterilization Master File Pilot Program to explore 
new ways to sterilize medical devices that reduce the environmental impact of ethylene oxide (EtO). Through innovations developed during the program, we established a process that requires lower levels of EtO. We have received FDA approval to implement this new process at our sterilization site in Puerto Rico for devices used for diabetes and cardiac care. To read more about our approach to using EtO, visit our website.Reducing waste for diabetes products
Products made for diabetes treatment can result in large quantities of waste for facilities and patients. To reduce the waste generated, we streamlined the packaging of several of our diabetes products. 
•
  Our InP
en™ reusable smart insulin pen lasts up to one year, replacing  
1,000 or more disposable plastic syringes.
•
  T
he Medtronic Extended infusion insulin tubing set is now designed  
to be worn for twice as long as a standard set, saving an average of around 
three to four pounds of plastic per patient every year.
•
  T
he MiniMed™ 770G System insulin management software allows 
for software upgrades that obviate the need for a physical pump change.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Materials of concern 
We closely adhere to global regulations governing 
the use of materials of concern, as defined under a variety of global regulatory requirements. Materials of concern include substances with the potential – if not managed correctly – to negatively impact people or the environment. Our Materials of Concern policy guides our approach to evaluating and managing materials of concern. We also participate in collaborative programs to find alternatives to, and reduce our use of, materials of concern, such as our involvement in the FDA’s Sterilization Master File Pilot Program to reduce the impact of ethylene oxide.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
39 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
MiniMed™ 770G System 
is for type 1 ages 2 and over. Prescription required. WARNING: Do not use SmartGuard™ Auto Mode for people who require less than 8 units or more than 250 units of insulin/day. For details, see http://bit.ly/770gRisks.
 
InPen requires a prescription 
and proper settings, or you could experience highs/lows. See bit.ly/InPen-Risks.Social impact
Medtronic engineers the extraordinary — life-transforming technology, insight-driven 
care, and experiences that put people first. Our work makes us a global healthcare technology leader, with the ability and desire to boldly attack the most challenging health problems facing humanity and deliver better outcomes for our world. 
To do this, we accelerate access to innovative treatments for underserved 
communities and invest in capacity building for healthcare professionals and patients. Our philanthropic contributions address inequities in healthcare and education, and we work to promote greater diversity and inclusion among our employees and suppliers. To deliver patient-first healthcare solutions to those who need them most, we work with a resilient and innovative pool of trusted partners.
FY22 social impact highlights  41
Global healthcare access  42Philanthropy  51Inclusion, diversity, and equity  57 Supporting a global workforce  64 Patient safety and product quality  72Data privacy and security  78 Supply chain responsibility  80
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 40 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
 Social impact
$2.7B
invested in research  
and development 
$97.1M
combined philanthropic  
investment by Medtronic and  
the Medtronic Foundation$69M
invested in healthcare  
capacity building, reaching 
350,000+ medical professionals
36 %
of our U.S. supplier spend,  
totaling nearly $2.7 billion,  
went to small and diverse-owned 
companies100 %
ethnically diverse and gender  
pay equity achieved in the  
U.S. and 99% gender pay  
equity globally
$50M  
spent on employee learning  
and developmentFY22 highlightsSOCIAL IMPACT
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
41 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexSOCIAL IMPACT
Global 
healthcare accessAdding business value
Inspired by our Mission and 
powered by our diverse knowledge, insatiable curiosity, and desire to help all those who need it, we deliver innovative technologies that transform lives. This contributes to our global business growth while also improving clinical, economic, and community-level outcomes for patients worldwide, with a focus on underserved and underrepresented communities.
The global crisis of health inequity can 
only be solved by accelerating access to healthcare technologies that put people first. We have the pipeline, data, and technology to help solve many of the world’s biggest health issues. By leveraging the power of advanced computing, smallest-size solutions, and hyper-personalization, we can increase access to innovative treatments tailored to unique patient needs.
1   Major geogr aphies include China, Europe, Japan, and the United States.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
42 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
$2.7B
invested in research and development (R&D)
200+
product regulatory approvals in  
major geographies1 
239
active clinical trials
350,000+
medical professionals reached through  
our healthcare capacity building efforts
51,000
patients received better clinical and  
social outcomes since Medtronic LABS  
was established on April 14, 2016Technology innovation 
Our total R&D expenditure in FY22 was $2.7 billion, 
more than 8% of our annual revenue. We make this investment to understand and develop a vast range  of leading-edge technologies with potential to improve our products and treatments and create new ones.  These include:
•
  Emer
ging technologies such as edge computing  
and pressure sensing, and innovations in areas like 
sensors and biomaterials.
•
  E
volving trends in areas such as regenerative 
medicine, 3D printing, and augmented reality.
•
  New applica
tions for data analytics, artificial 
intelligence (AI) and machine learning, robotics, simulation, and modeling. 
Our knowledge of evolving and established technologies enables us to deliver life-transforming technology and insight-driven care to tackle the most challenging health problems facing humanity. We also use these technologies to aid research and training.  For example, in FY22:
•
  W
e increased use of digital twin technology —  
virtual representations of devices, physiology, or 
systems that use real-time data, simulation, and machine learning to aid our decision-making on potential innovations.
•
  W
e continued to use virtual reality to bring employees 
and customers together, reduce the need for business travel, and simplify training through use of more than 900 Oculus headsets. One project enables clinicians to practice finding and accounting for all surgical sponges used during a procedure. Other programs bring physicians together with sales representatives in a virtual operating room to learn to use our products and surgical techniques.
Our Healthcare Innovation team, located at our Innovation Lab, supports our global innovation efforts. This group of technologists, strategists, and designers help Medtronic teams across every operating unit turn innovative ideas into practical solutions, with a focus on human-centered design, high-quality deliverables, and hands-on learning. Each year, the team completes approximately 65 projects, carries out more than 200 user interviews, and trains more than 1,000 Medtronic employees in new skills and creative methodologies.
GOALS TO EXPAND GLOBAL HEALTHCARE ACCESS 
FY21 FY22
By FY25, 20% of Medtronic revenue will flow from products and 
therapies released in the prior 36 months (vitality index).17% 19%
By FY25, 85 million patients will be served annually through our increased access strategies.GLOBAL HEALTHCARE ACCESS
OUR INNOVATION PIPELINE 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Total R&D investment ($ billions) 2.3 2.5 2.7
Clinical studies completed 54 49 51
Active clinical trials during the fiscal year†247 244 239
Product regulatory approvals in major geographies‡– – 200+
†  In FY22,  we updated this metric from ongoing clinical trials at the end of the fiscal year to active clinical trials during the fiscal year to provide a more 
meaningful picture. "Active" refers to any study that is recruiting subjects or is in the follow-up phase (all subjects have been recruited, follow-up visits 
are ongoing) during the fiscal year.
‡  FY22 is the first ye ar Medtronic is disclosing this metric. Major geographies include China, Europe, Japan, and the United States.
Medical design excellence
At the 2021 Medical Design Excellence Awards, we received Best in Show for the  
LINQ II™ Insertable Cardiac Monitoring (ICM) system and the Medical Device and Diagnostic Industry Readers’ Choice award for the CareLink SmartSync™ device manager.
72  
million 76.3 
million
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
43 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
See the device manuals for 
detailed information regarding the implant procedure, indications/intended use, contraindications, warnings, precautions, and potential complications/adverse events. For further information, please call Medtronic at 800-328-2518 (Technical Services), 800-551-5544 (Patient Services), and/or consult the Medtronic website at medtronic.com. 
Caution: Federal law (USA) 
restricts this device to sale by or on the order of a physician.GLOBAL HEALTHCARE ACCESS
Research and clinical trials
Our rigorous process of design and development 
enables us to tailor products and services to unique patient needs. Predictive engineering supported by advanced statistical methodology helps us understand how a product will work in the field, while the use of digital twin systems allows us to model different use scenarios.
We take our most promising innovations through 
systematic preclinical or clinical trials, always taking a human-centered approach. Throughout the development process, we prioritize safety, effectiveness, patient experience and diversity, and clinical outcomes. 
FY22 R&D highlights include:
•
  Launch of
 the Medtronic Discovery™ app, designed 
to recruit participants, communicate with them, and 
collect data throughout large-scale clinical studies conducted remotely. 
•
  C
ompletion of participant enrollment for the 
Global Pivotal trial of the PulseSelect™ Pulsed Field Ablation system (PULSED AF) — a global, pre-market, multicenter clinical study that will evaluate this novel breakthrough technology for treating atrial fibrillation.
Launched last year, our technology development centers (TDCs) have continued to grow, providing critical R&D innovation for our operating units. We now have seven TDCs established, advancing technology for the future  in the areas of microelectronics, batteries, cardiac  and neuromodulation implantables, textiles, robotics, and image-guided navigation. New regulatory approvals
In FY22, we had more than 200 product regulatory approvals in major geographies. Highlights include:
•
  T
he Hugo™ RAS (robotic-assisted surgery) system 
received the CE mark in Europe for urologic and 
gynecologic procedures, which make up the majority of robotic procedures in Europe, and we completed the first general surgery procedures in Latin America and India (below right).
1
•  T he Prevail™ drug-coated balloon (DCB) catheter 
received the CE mark in Europe and is used during percutaneous coronary intervention procedures to treat narrowed or blocked coronary arteries in patients with coronary artery disease (below).
•
  T
he NuVent™ Eustachian tube dilation balloon is 
a manually controlled balloon catheter system that enables surgeons to deliver treatment of chronic, obstructive Eustachian tube dysfunction in an outpatient or office setting.
Read more about our new FY22 approvals in the Medtronic Newsroom.Innovative partnerships 
To advance our Mission, we partner with peers, innovators, healthcare systems, and others to deliver solutions matched to local need and develop new approaches to increase access to our treatments.
New FY22 partnerships included:
•
  P
ublic-private partnership (PPP) with Pioneers 
Technical Systems and Vision 3030 in Saudi Arabia to 
produce up to 6,000 Puritan Bennett™ 560 (PB560) ventilators annually in Saudi Arabia. These will be the first ventilators and first pieces of capital medical equipment made in the Kingdom.
•
  C
ollaboration with Rockley Photonics to develop the 
next generation of wearable healthcare monitoring devices. This was achieved by adding Rockley’s Bioptx™ biomarker-sensing platform to Medtronic offerings for use across a range of healthcare settings.In FY22, we launched our first Open Innovation Platform (OIP) with support from the Government of Singapore and the Singapore Economic Development Board, enabling multistakeholder strategic collaboration in healthcare technologies. The first OIP initiative was the Medtronic APAC Innovation Challenge (MAIC), which invited innovative startups and businesses across the Asia-Pacific region to submit proposals for medtech and digital health solutions. There were more than 320 ideas submitted across 46 countries. The top five winners are now partnering with Medtronic for a commercial pilot.
Investment in innovative companies is another route 
to increasing access to treatments and therapies. Read about our approach to acquisitions.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
44 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
Risks may include 
mild bleeding, pain and/or tissue trauma.
1  T he Medtronic Hugo™ RAS system is commercially available in certain 
geographies. Regulatory requirements of individual countries and regions will determine approval, clearance, or market availability. In the EU, the Hugo™ RAS system is CE marked. In the U.S., the Hugo™ system is an investigational device not for sale.GLOBAL HEALTHCARE ACCESS
Affordable healthcare
Our pricing approach
The Medtronic Mission calls us to engineer the 
extraordinary — products and solutions that can alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life, but engineering alone cannot make them accessible; they must also  be affordable. Our Mission-driven pricing programs  and policies account for local circumstances and  market dynamics, as well as the product’s value to the healthcare system. 
The principles of fairness and sustainability underpin 
all our pricing models, which are aligned with local market environments. Our Healthcare Economics Policy and Reimbursement (HEPR) function oversees our reimbursement strategy and systems across all our portfolios. HEPR allows us to adapt to local needs by ensuring close coordination and cooperation across operating units and markets.Value-based healthcare
We focus on delivering value-based healthcare  (VBHC) models that improve patient outcomes while reducing the overall cost of care. Rather than receiving  payment for a volume of product or therapy, we collaborate with partners to integrate products and services into long-term solutions that elevate clinical  and economic outcomes.
Our VBHC collaborations enable practitioners at 
healthcare systems globally to apply the right therapy at the right time to patients who will benefit most. 
For example, last year the Medtronic Diabetes operating 
unit and two longtime health plan partners, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota, achieved an industry first by moving the supply of insulin pumps to the same process used for prescription medications. In the United States, patients pay an average of $800 out of pocket for an insulin pump while waiting a month or more for approval of an insurance claim. Now, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota members with Prime Therapeutics as their pharmacy benefits manager get a prescription from their doctor and pay an average of just $50 for a MiniMed™ 670G or MiniMed™ 770G system. This has the potential to significantly lower costs for people living with diabetes, reduce paperwork, and make life easier for physicians.
In FY22, we launched a two-year strategic collaboration 
with GE Healthcare, working with ambulatory surgery centers and office-based labs to help them meet evolving patient needs cost effectively and efficiently. The collaboration features a flexible custom rebate program that enables direct rebates to be earned on Medtronic products and associated capital.Demonstrating the value of monitoring  
opioid treatment
Last year, we shared the results of our PRODIGY trial, which was designed to assist 
clinicians in the identification of high-risk patients receiving opioids and reduce the likelihood of complications from respiratory depression.
In FY22, we shared new data from the trial that added an indication of potential 
economic benefit of continuous capnography and pulse oximetry monitoring of high-risk patients. The model suggested a potential $535,531 annual savings for a median-sized U.S. hospital and a cumulative patient length of stay decrease of 103 days per year, assuming respiratory depression is decreased by 20%. 
Our model suggests that a reduction of just 1.5% in the incidence of respiratory 
depression would allow hospital systems to recover costs associated with the investment in monitoring.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
45 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexGLOBAL HEALTHCARE ACCESS
Addressing healthcare disparities
To reduce disparities across global healthcare 
systems, we work to increase access to life-changing technologies. We develop programs and foster relationships to scale access to our products and services — focusing on prevention, detection, and treatment of noncommunicable diseases in underserved communities.
In FY22, we established the Medtronic Health Equity 
Advisory Committee (HEAC) in the United States, comprising representatives from across our operating units, Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), and U.S. functions. The HEAC’s purpose is to:
•
  Shar
e best practices and ensure consistency of 
customer engagement on health equity.
•
  W
ork collaboratively to help shape strategy and 
solutions that will be scalable and sustainable and 
have a measurable impact.
•
  Align on he
alth equity definitions and consistent 
language, craft a common framework, and maximize data analysis models to promote health equity opportunities.
To date, the HEAC has focused on developing ways to engage and support healthcare customers. This includes agreeing on a common framework to help customers take a community-focused approach designed to address health equity, accelerate access, and remove structural and social barriers to quality care.
Some of our current activities to improve equitable 
identification, engagement, interventions, and measurement include:
•
  Educa
tion and awareness campaigns on inequities in 
diabetes care through our Aquire some knowledge  
(ASK) program.•  Dona tions through the Medtronic Health Equity 
Assistance Program for colon cancer screening —  see case study right.
•
  C
ollaborations with Virtua Health, the Cherry Hill Free 
Clinic, and Medtronic LABS that work to improve healthcare access and health outcomes. This is achieved by disrupting and reimagining traditional healthcare models with technology for underserved patient communities with chronic conditions in southern New Jersey.
•
  P
artnerships with four local health systems in the 
U.S. to explore root causes of disparities in access to transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) among people of color — based on the lessons learned from these local programs, we have defined a roadmap and resources to support a broader base of customers who want to address similar disparities in their local markets.
•
  C
ollaboration between Medtronic, Mpirik, and Vizient 
to pilot electronic health record screening for the identification of sudden cardiac arrest risks, regardless of race or gender.
•
  Affilia
tion with MedTech Color, along with internal 
efforts, to foster racial and ethnic diversity in Medtronic clinical trials.
•
  R
eaffirmation of our commitment to quality  
outcomes through our memberships with the National Quality Forum and the National Committee for Quality Assurance. 
Our philanthropic activities also help reduce inequities across healthcare systems and in STEM education.Reducing inequities in cancer detection
Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer, excluding 
skin cancers, and third deadliest cancer among adults in the United States.
1 Black adults are more likely to be diagnosed and 
subsequently die from the disease. There are also disparities in screenings among different groups, including adults in rural communities. When caught early the survival rate for colorectal cancer is around 90%.
In FY22, Medtronic began a partnership with the American 
Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE), with support from Amazon Web Services, to provide colorectal cancer screening technologies in low-income and underserved communities across the United States. The Medtronic Health Equity Assistance Program for colon cancer screening includes a donation of  130 Medtronic GI Genius
TM intelligent endoscopy modules  
(left) to endoscopy centers across the country. These devices  aid endoscopists in the detection of polyps that can lead to colorectal cancer.
Deployment of the devices could impact more than 500,000 
patients over three years by increasing early detection and diagnosis in underserved communities.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
46 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
The device shall not be used as a 
stand-alone diagnostic device and is not intended to replace clinical decision making.1  J anuary 12, 2022, American Cancer Society, Key Statistics for Colorectal CancerGLOBAL HEALTHCARE ACCESS
Medtronic Care Management Services
Medtronic Care Management Services (MCMS) offers 
at-home remote patient monitoring to help healthcare providers manage patients for chronic conditions, post-surgery or post-hospitalization. The monitoring combines patient engagement technology, clinical monitoring software, care management services, data analytics, and reporting. 
In FY22, MCMS increased accessibility and flexibility 
in its programs by adding bring-your-own-device capabilities
1 to its remote monitoring product portfolio 
and expanding options for use of peripheral devices. MCMS also began testing digital program enrollment approaches designed to allow patients to get started quickly on their own. 
In addition, MCMS is piloting a new comorbid disease 
management program that allows clinicians to more closely monitor people with diabetes who also have continuous glucose monitoring devices. The aim is to empower patients with self-management education and help clinicians identify hypoglycemic episodes and potentially intervene.
MCMS plans to continue developing a suite of modular, 
personalized digital health solutions that are integrated into patients’ everyday lives and providers’ workflows.Care access 
In developed and emerging markets, we identify barriers to access and quantify treatment needs using our Patient Access Acceleration (PAA) methodology.
This data-driven approach guides our market 
development strategy and helps identify investment opportunities to remove barriers to access. For example, access may be improved by generating more evidence or expanding economic coverage; capacity building, training, and education; or disease and therapy awareness. Each year, we combine data from thousands of PAA assessments across countries and therapies. We use our learning to improve planning and reduce risks associated with future market development investments. Specifically, we are integrating machine learning models to help predict how many patients could be treated by our therapies and technologies.
Our Patient Access Insights (PAI) consulting service 
identifies local needs and barriers to access. Around the world, we partner with hospitals to apply PAI to specific services and pathways of care, helping them develop appropriate solutions based on our findings.
Helping surgeons flourish
Following discussions with surgeons about the challenges they face in their surgery 
businesses, a member of our Obesity and Metabolic Health team launched an innovative business model to help address the issues of top-line growth, profitability, and operational efficiency.
As part of the Bariatric Business Consulting service, Medtronic diagnoses the surgeon’s 
business challenges. We then develop and help implement customized solutions, which may include solutions like new digital marketing techniques, improved patient pathways, and various kinds of staff training. As the surgeons’ businesses grow and treat more patients, we grow with them. Already in 18 countries, the model has helped double our market share in key European, Middle East, and African markets, and we continue to scale it globally.
1  P atients can use their own iOS and Android devices.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
47 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexGLOBAL HEALTHCARE ACCESS
CAPACITY BUILDING
FY20 FY21 FY22
Education for medical professionals ($ million) $145.4 $69.9†$69.1
Education for patients ($ million) $18.9 $7.8‡$6.7
Medical professionals reached 62,889 974,914§354,175
Capital investment ($ million) – $3.7Ω$33.3
†  Spend on educa tion for medical professionals decreased in FY21, largely due to the shift to online training.
‡  Spend on educa tion for patients decreased in FY21, partly because of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the shift to using more 
internal training resources.
§  T he number of medical professionals reached increased in FY21, partly due to the shift to online training and partly due to additional time available 
when many medical professionals were not allowed to operate during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Ω  In FY21,  we began reporting capital investments, such as funding toward internal systems like the Medtronic Academy.Capacity building
We help patients and healthcare professionals stay up 
to date with current treatments and technology to help them achieve better outcomes and increase access to our products and services. Increasing the number of practitioners employing our therapies, particularly, but not only, in emerging markets, radically expands healthcare access and allows patients to receive treatment in their home countries.
Our global Innovation Centers, with locations in South 
Korea, Turkey, and beyond, provide specialist training to healthcare professionals wanting to expand and update their skills and knowledge. This year, we opened our newest innovation center in Sichuan Province, China. Within five years of operation, we expect to train approximately 7,000 healthcare professionals annually  at this new center.
Other FY22 highlights:
•
  Medtr
onic mobile lab trucks continued to host training 
events for U.S. healthcare professionals in rural regions 
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.
•
  Medtr
onic patients with diabetes in Europe, the 
Middle East, and Africa can now access Sara — a virtual assistant with an online chat service available at any time of day to answer questions about our products  or services.
•
  Our new sur
gical skills lab in India, the result of a 
partnership between Medtronic India and the Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, is training and developing young surgeons in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.
•
  T
he Medtronic Surgical Robotics Experience Center, 
our first in the Asia-Pacific region, has started to enable clinicians in Gurugram, India, to experience and train on robotic-assisted surgery (RAS) technology from Medtronic, with a focus on the Hugo RAS system —  a modular, multiquadrant platform designed for a broad range of soft-tissue procedures (right).
Expanding remote monitoring 
In FY22, Medtronic formed new partnerships to expand the benefits and capabilities of remote monitoring for patients and healthcare professionals, including: 
•
  C
areLine Solutions in France — integrating data 
transmitted by Medtronic cardiac-implanted electrical 
devices (pacemakers and defibrillators) into the CareLine monitoring platform.
•
  Cloud D
X in Canada — providing world-class virtual 
healthcare to patients across Canada through exclusive access to Cloud DX’s remote patient monitoring technology and services.
•
  S
tasis in India — expanding access to the state-of-the-
art Stasis Monitor, a bedside monitoring system that automates and digitizes monitoring, documentation, and communication of critical patient information in hospital settings.
$69.1M
education for medical professionals  
in FY22
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
48 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
The Medtronic Hugo™ RAS 
system is commercially available in certain geographies. Regulatory requirements of individual countries and regions will determine approval, clearance, or market availability. In the EU, the Hugo™ RAS system is CE marked. In the U.S., the Hugo™ system is an investigational device not for sale.GLOBAL HEALTHCARE ACCESS
MEDTRONIC LABS IMPACT
Cumulative since April 14, 2016
FY20 FY21 FY22
Patients screened (cumulative) 850,000+ 960,000+ 1,214,000+
Health workers trained (cumulative) 1,500+ 2,400+ 3,200+
Patients with better clinical and social outcomes (cumulative) 23,000+ 38,000+ 51,000+
Medtronic LABS operational sites 90 120+ 250+Medtronic LABS
Medtronic LABS is a health systems innovator that 
develops community-based, tech-enabled solutions for underserved patients, families, and communities around the world.
An independent, public benefit corporation funded 
by Medtronic, Medtronic LABS combines hyper-local services with cutting-edge technology, providing sustainable and localized healthcare solutions that produce measurable patient outcomes.
The Medtronic LABS approach integrates three  
core elements:
•
  Digital technology 
— software solutions designed for 
patients, community health workers, and healthcare 
providers operating in low-resource settings.
•
  F
ield operations — community-based teams integrated 
with health systems to expand screening, diagnosis, treatment, and patient engagement.
•
  P
artnerships — collaboration with health systems, 
governments, local innovators, multinationals, and funders to drive sustainable system-level transformation.Since its inception, Medtronic LABS has reached more than 1 million patients. Key activities in FY22 included:
•
  R
elease of a new cutting-edge technology platform 
and expansion of its impact in seven new countries. 
The innovative Medtronic LABS SPICE software platform is designed to support community-based population health at scale by offering end-to-end patient services. The platform was launched with new features that enhance customizability, interoperability, and flexibility. 
•
  Establishment of
 landmark partnerships for 
technology-enabled, community-based chronic disease management. Programs launched in Tanzania, Sierra Leone, Rwanda, Bhutan, the Philippines, Cambodia, and the United States. In Kenya and Ghana, LABS programs are poised for national scale, and in India, Medtronic LABS grew in both the private and public sectors. 
Public-private partnerships (PPPs) with governments to strengthen public health systems is key to sustainable population health impact. Medtronic LABS is building a track record of partnering with national, state, and local governments to deliver impacts aligned with government priorities and patient needs. For example: 
•
  Medtr
onic LABS and the Kenyan Ministry of Health are 
partnering to expand the Empower Health program, 
powered by the Medtronic LABS SPICE platform, across Kenya. The program is expected to roll out over the next four years and will fully integrate into the country’s digital health ecosystem. The nationally scaled program will manage hypertension and diabetes for over 300,000 people across Kenya’s  47 counties, tripling current patient impact and becoming the largest scale chronic disease  program in Africa.•  In Ghana,  Medtronic LABS is partnering with the 
German Development Agency and the Christian Hospital Association of Ghana, the second largest health system in the country. The Akoma Pa program will manage over 60,000 patients with hypertension and diabetes and is already one of the largest NCD programs in West Africa. Expansion to the public sector is expected next year. 
•
  In Bhutan,
 Medtronic LABS is collaborating with  
United Nations Technology Bank, the Ministry of Health, UNICEF, and MedEl to deploy the Shruti program model to reach every child in Bhutan over the next three years. 
Looking ahead, Medtronic LABS is focused on expanding into new clinical areas to strengthen patient outcomes at the primary care level, and deepening impact through health system partnerships.
1 .2M+
patients screened through  
Medtronic LABS since 2016
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
49 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexGLOBAL HEALTHCARE ACCESS
Partnering for impact
Advocacy
Improving access to treatment in underserved 
populations requires appropriate policy frameworks that support and enable equitable healthcare systems and pathways. We work with peers and partners to advocate for public policy that enables increased access to vital treatment. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to advocate for access to biomedical technologies based on equity and fairness — and where individuals can access technologies for the highest level of care.
In FY22, we participated in a meeting about the Cancer 
Moonshot initiative launched by U.S. President Biden. The discussion focused on the role that medical technology plays at every stage of the cancer diagnosis and care continuum, as well as the importance of fully utilizing innovative technologies that can prevent and detect cancer. 
Our CEO also joined with other business leaders, 
the U.S. President, and key representatives of the administration to call on Congress to take swift action and deliver competition legislation, like the Bipartisan Innovation Act, to the President’s desk. Of particular concern were current shortages in semiconductor supplies affecting the medical technology sector.
To enable procurement of medical equipment to 
address country-level needs, we continue to talk and cooperate with the United States, other governments, and international organizations, such as multilateral development banks and UN agencies.Public-private partnerships
We develop long-term partnerships with national, regional, and municipal governments and health systems in underserved communities to understand and address local needs and challenges. We work through these partnerships to expand access to healthcare knowledge and technology.
Our aim is to create sustainable, scalable projects in  
four areas:
•
 R&D
•
 Manufacturing for mark
et access
•
 Clinical tr
aining and education
•
 He
alth system strengthening
Our Public-Private Partnership Council guides our 
efforts. The council uses a United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) self-assessment tool  for “people first” public-private partnerships to evaluate our partnerships against key issues, such as access.
For example, in FY22, Medtronic Vietnam signed a 
memorandum of understanding with the Vietnam Ministry of Health to elevate healthcare professionals’ clinical skill sets in ICU departments and centers. The aim is to train more than 4,000 healthcare professionals in  12 months, including a train-the-trainer program to create a board of trainers with 30 doctors and in-depth training for key hospitals. Progress toward this goal is underway, and several key milestones have already  been achieved.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
50 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexPhilanthropySOCIAL IMPACT
Adding business value
Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation engage in 
philanthropic activities to further the Medtronic Mission. By giving our time, resources, and skills, we address inequities and improve lives in underserved communities around the world. Partnerships with local, national, and international organizations amplify the impact of our activities and benefit our business by building trust and long-term social capital.Global challenges, including the COVID-19 
pandemic, climate change, and conflict, continue to exacerbate inequities in communities and in healthcare access. Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation work together to improve the lives of underserved and underrepresented populations around the world. Our philanthropic actions combine financial investments, skills-based volunteerism, and strategic advice to deliver long-term, sustainable change. $97.1M
combined philanthropic 
contributions by Medtronic  
and the Medtronic Foundation
144K+ 
Medtronic employee hours 
volunteered in communities
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
51 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexOur contributions
In FY22, Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation 
contributed more than $97.1 million globally in combined philanthropic investments through four key mechanisms:
•
  C
ash contributions — funding medical professionals 
and fellowship positions, clinical research grants,  
third-party-sponsored health education programs,  and other health-related activities.
•
  Medtr
onic Foundation grants — improving the lives  
of underserved populations worldwide and supporting communities in which Medtronic employees live and give.
•
  P
roduct donations — supporting disaster recovery 
and access to care through monetary and product donations distributed to nonprofit organizations  and in-country clinics.
•
  Y
ear-round employee volunteering and giving 
opportunities — giving time, skills, and resources to  the communities in which Medtronic employees  live and work.TYPE OF PHILANTHROPIC CONTRIBUTIONS 
($ million)
FY20 FY21 FY22
Corporate cash donations†$56.4 $48.9 $50.5
Medtronic Foundation giving total $34.2 $36.4 $30.3‡
Product donations $10.2 $13.2 $12.5
Value of volunteering $4.3 $4.6 $4.0§
Total givingΩ$ 105.1 $ 103.0 $97.1
† The changes in cash contributions year over year reflects our strategy to focus on impacts and outcomes rather than dollar amount. 
‡  Medtronic Foundation matches are usually made on a 1:1 basis up to $5,000. In response to COVID-19, Medtronic Foundation matches were increased to 2:1 from April 1 
through October 30, 2020. The reduction in Medtronic Foundation giving in FY22 reflects the return to 1:1 giving, as well as the separation of Medtronic Global Health from the Medtronic Foundation this year. Medtronic Global Health is now part of Medtronic LABS (see page 48). Medtronic LABS data are not included in the Medtronic Foundation giving total.
§  Calculated with an hourly rate of $29.95, provided by Independent Sector. Volunteer hours reflect hours that are self-reported by Medtronic employees and represent hours of volunteerism during normal business hours.
Ω Row totals may not add up due to rounding.$97.1M
combined philanthropic  
contributions by Medtronic  
and the Medtronic FoundationPHILANTHROPY
†  Total does not add up to 100% due to rounding.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
52 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
31.2 %
Medtronic Foundation grants68.7 %
Medtronic plcSPLIT OF PHILANTHROPIC CONTRIBUTIONS† Continued support during COVID-19
In FY22, Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation 
continued to support communities and healthcare systems impacted by COVID-19, partnering with organizations that have diverse leadership representative of local communities. Together, Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation committed an additional $3 million for COVID-19 relief efforts in FY22 focused on underserved areas of India, Brazil, the United States, and other global regions. 
The Medtronic Foundation partnered with key 
organizations distributing COVID-19 relief funds and resources — including, but not limited to, Americares Foundation Inc., Direct Relief, Healthcare Ready, International Medical Corps, and Project HOPE.  Together, these efforts:
•
  Served approximately 564,000 patients  
in 1,074 communities.
•
  T
rained more than 45,500 community health  
workers and reached more than 1.6 million  
community members with messages to address vaccine hesitancy.
•
  Suppor
ted health facilities in underserved areas  
and supplied vital medical supplies, equipment,  and PPE. Together, Medtronic Foundation and Medtronic provided more than 34 million items, protecting more than 16,000 health workers and supporting 955 health facilities. 
MEDTRONIC FOUNDATION FY22 
COVID-19 CONTRIBUTIONS 
($ million)
Health grants $2.1
Community grants $0.5
Employee-matched giving/assistance†$9.5
Total contribution $12.1
† Amount represents estimated matched donations supporting COVID-19 relief efforts.PHILANTHROPY
Supporting India’s COVID-19 response
India has been hit hard by COVID-19, recording 
more than half a million deaths since the start of the pandemic and seeing the unemployment rate climb to a 45-year high. Research suggests existing gender inequities in education, health, and employment have also worsened. 
In FY22, Medtronic and the Medtronic 
Foundation continued to contribute to the COVID-19 response in India to help alleviate  the impact and address healthcare inequities:
•
  Medtr
onic completed delivery of 25,000 
oxygen concentrators and committed to 
coordinating the shipping and distribution  of more than 1,000 Medtronic ventilators.•
   Medtr onic led vaccine procurement, import, 
and distribution efforts for employees and household family members in India.
•
  Medtr
onic CEO Geoff Martha was a member 
of the Global Task Force on Pandemic Response as part of the Business Roundtable to address COVID-19 response in India.
•
  T
he Medtronic Foundation committed  
$2.1 million via key partner organizations  to distribute medical supplies, set up temporary treatment and quarantine facilities, train frontline health workers, and support vaccine rollout. 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
53 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
COVID-19 RELIEF FROM MEDTRONIC  
FOUNDATION PARTNERS 
2.2M+
patients, community members, and  
health workers positively impacted
34M+
items of medical supplies, equipment,  
and PPE donatedMedtronic Foundation programs
Medtronic plc is the sole funder of Medtronic 
Foundation, whose focus is on improving lives for underserved and underrepresented populations worldwide and supporting communities in which Medtronic employees live and give. The work of the Medtronic Foundation complements the global work of Medtronic LABS to address healthcare disparities. In FY22, the Medtronic Foundation updated its focus, targeting philanthropic work in three strategic areas:
•
  Equity-based youth pr
ograms — removing barriers 
to quality education and supporting health and 
well-being for underserved and underrepresented students, including growing the representation of underserved and underrepresented populations in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) studies and jobs.
•
  Employee 
engagement — supporting communities 
in which more than 95,000 Medtronic employees live and give through sustainable year-round, hands-on, and skills-based volunteerism, alongside matching grants and volunteer grants. Read more about Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation’s work to engage with employees through volunteering.
•
  Global disaster r
elief — strengthening the capacity 
and resiliency of communities to prepare for, and recover from, global disasters and humanitarian crises, including COVID-19. Read more about Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation’s work to support the pandemic response.Advancing STEM equity 
Investment in STEM education to advance diversity across career pathways contributes to vital research and innovation. By addressing these inequities early, the Medtronic Foundation is contributing to a more diverse pipeline of talent for medical technology and other sectors, while also advancing more equitable economic opportunities for underrepresented populations. The work of the Medtronic Foundation complements the Medtronic effort to facilitate a more diverse talent pipeline. Read more about Medtronic’s approach to inclusion, diversity, and equity in the workplace.
In FY22, the Medtronic Foundation continued to develop 
health and education partnerships to address racial disparities and advance social justice in the United States, as part of the $16 million investment announced in FY21.
For example, in FY22, the Medtronic Foundation 
launched a new STEM partnership program with the aim of serving more than 60,000 underserved and underrepresented students. The two-year program will invest nearly $4 million in 13 partnerships with leading organizations in Minnesota, Northern California, and Puerto Rico. These locations have been prioritized based on evidence of racial and economic disparities in communities where Medtronic employees have the greatest footprint and capability to drive social change. A second round of partnerships will be announced  mid-FY23.
In addition, Medtronic employee volunteers will  
partner with each organization to mentor students and facilitate other skilled volunteerism focused on strengthening systems of care and helping deliver  more sustainable outcomes. PHILANTHROPY
Children’s heart care
Every child with congenital heart disease deserves access to quality 
pediatric heart care. In late FY21, the Medtronic Foundation launched a $2.5 million, three-year partnership with Children’s HeartLink® to increase access to care in Brazil, China, and India. In FY22, the partnership provided training for more than 2,300 clinicians and enabled more than 45,000 outpatient visits and 2,295 essential surgeries.Encouraging STEM careers
As part of the Medtronic Foundation’s partnership with the Northside Achievement Zone in Minneapolis, Minnesota, members of the Minnesota Vikings football team joined Medtronic employees for a unique STEM event at the Bakken Museum.
Inspired by a lesson on simple machines 
from the inventor of the Super Soaker, teammates and scientists worked with 50 students to find creative ways to turn simple household items into extraordinary contraptions. The goal was to motivate students toward careers in STEM and introduce them to professionals in the field who share similar backgrounds.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
54 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexEmployee volunteering
The Medtronic Foundation offers Medtronic employees 
a range of options to donate their time, talent, and resources to support causes close to their hearts.
Project 6 is the Medtronic Foundation’s annual global 
kickoff campaign for hands-on volunteerism. Employees are encouraged to engage in year-round volunteering, with the Medtronic Foundation offering a variety of opportunities through an online portal that matches  skills to available opportunities. These include skilled service opportunities through programs like the  Global Innovation Fellows and consulting sprints.  In FY22, the Medtronic Foundation engaged employees to implement 20 skills-based volunteer projects with  32 international organizations across 10 countries. 
To amplify employees’ efforts, the Medtronic  
Foundation offers:
•
  Ma
tched giving — the Medtronic Foundation matches 
employee and retiree donations made to any eligible 
nonprofit, up to $5,000 per calendar year.
•
  V
olunteer grants — employees can volunteer with 
eligible nonprofits to earn money for causes important to them. For every 10 volunteer hours an employee works with a qualified nonprofit, Medtronic will donate $200 ($20 per volunteer hour). Employees can generate a maximum donation of $1,000 by volunteering 50 hours per calendar year.PHILANTHROPY
Other FY22 initiatives include:
•
  Medtr
onic and the Medtronic Foundation partnered 
with the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers 
(SHPE) to launch a new college program designed to remove barriers for Hispanic and Latino students studying STEM. A combined commitment of more than $3 million over the next four years will help fund scholarships, internships, and mentorship opportunities for SHPE students.
•
  Medtr
onic and the Medtronic Foundation partnered 
with the Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF) to foster stronger relationships with Historically Black Colleges and Universities and diversify the pipeline of STEM talent through both internships and scholarships. Through the partnership, Medtronic hired 41 summer interns of African descent in FY22 — an increase from 8% in 2020 to 20% in 2021.
•
  Medtr
onic held its first STEM consulting sprints — 
two days of skilled volunteering with more than 100 employees largely from across the United States, in partnership with Taproot Foundation. Teams of four to six employees supported one of 22 STEM-focused organizations to solve current challenges or problems by matching employee skills with nonprofit needs. GRANTS AND EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM 
FY20 FY21 FY22†
Year-round volunteerism
Volunteers 14,000 12,200 11,283
Countries 49 61 84
Total volunteer events‡– – 4,943
Total volunteer hours 170,000 174,000 144,329
Volunteer grantsVolunteer grants 1,271 689 1,975
Volunteer grants ($ raised) $635,500 $450,000 $1,700,000
Global matching grantsMedtronic Foundation match of employee contributions ($ million)
§$8.1 $13.6 $9.2
† Year-round volunteerism and volunteer hours data are based on reported FY22 data, correct as of July 12, 2022.
‡ In FY22, we began reporting total volunteer events in place of employee-led projects.
§  Medtronic Foundation matches are usually made on a 1:1 basis up to $5,000. In response to COVID-19, Medtronic Foundation matches were increased to 2:1 from  
April 1 through October 30, 2020.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
55 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexDisaster response
Together with ongoing efforts to contribute to COVID-19 
response, Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation continue to respond to global challenges that impact the health of communities — including conflicts, natural disasters, and extreme weather. We focus on establishing long-term partnerships with local and global organizations that can aid recovery. 
Medtronic employees also can take five days of paid 
time off each year to support relief and recovery efforts by volunteering with nonprofits and nongovernmental organizations. The Medtronic Employee Emergency Assistance Fund (MEEAF) also offers financial support when employees’ own communities are impacted.
In FY22, the Medtronic Foundation was awarded 
the Project HOPE Global Health Partner Award in recognition of its support for over three decades, including becoming the first corporate partner to support Project HOPE’s Emergency Response and Preparedness Fund.
Response to the Ukraine conflict
Upon outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine, Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation began monitoring and assessing support and response needs.
We have experienced strong attendance at employee 
sessions covering topics such as support for employees and managers directly impacted, those with family in Ukraine, and employees across Europe. To date, more than 600 employees have attended 27 sessions hosted in nine languages. Two types of MEEAF grants are available for Ukrainian employees; in FY22, 30 employees applied for these. As of May 26, 2022, Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation donated a total of $6.7 million to support Ukraine via direct relief grants, employee donations,  and product donations. This includes:
•
 $4.9 million in pr
oduct donations.
•
  $607,000 in Medtr
onic local giving and Medtronic 
Foundation Direct Relief Grants to global partners 
Project Hope, International Medical Corps,  and Americares.
•
  $1.14 million total in employee dona
tions, including 
matched giving. To date, 2,133 employees have contributed, and donations continue to roll in. Read more about employee volunteering efforts relating  to Ukraine.
Natural disasters
To address healthcare provision for children and families following hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, the Medtronic Foundation continued to develop its partnership with the island’s public health trust. The partnership focuses on increasing access to care and future resiliency for underserved populations, improving health outcomes for chronic conditions, and involving Medtronic employees in executing these programs.
In response to the FY22 wildfires in Louisville, Colorado, 
Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation provided employee and community support and resources, including assisting 10 employees whose homes were lost or suffered heavy fire damage.PHILANTHROPY
DISASTER RELIEF†
($ million)
FY20 FY21 FY22
Contributions $2.2 $2.1 $3.1
†  C ontributions vary year over year depending on the number and nature of disasters requiring response.  
Figures do not include contributions relating to the COVID-19 pandemic or the war in Ukraine.
$6.7M
to support Ukraine via direct relief 
grants, employee donations,  
and product donations 
Employee support for Ukraine
The conflict in Ukraine has triggered a humanitarian crisis, devastating communities across 
the country and beyond. Medtronic employees have stepped up to help colleagues and their families in this time of need.
Dozens of employees in Poland and Central Eastern Europe have provided free 
accommodation, food, clothes, and transport from the Ukrainian border. Further west, one Medtronic employee in Switzerland, supported by more than 200 volunteers, set up an operation to distribute clothes and food to refugees fleeing Ukraine.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
56 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index50 % 
42 %
39 %
27 %
Inclusion, 
diversity, and equitySOCIAL IMPACT
Adding business value
We prioritize creating an environment 
where everyone feels included, all contributions are valued, and the playing field is level. These attributes help us recruit and retain the best talent and develop products and therapies that serve more people worldwide. 
Our approach to inclusion, diversity, and equity 
(ID&E) is holistic. We integrate ID&E principles throughout our company to ensure every operating unit, team, and leader recognizes and celebrates the value of diverse experiences and backgrounds. Developing an inclusive, diverse, and equitable workforce empowers us to reach our highest potential in our business and in our communities. of our global 
workforce are women
of our global 
managers are women
of our U.S. workforce 
are ethnically diverse
of our U.S. managers 
are ethnically diverse
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
57 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexID&E at Medtronic 
Our ID&E strategy is organized under three pillars:
•
  Individual
 – being accountable role models of ID&E  
in our daily work 
•
  C
ompany – ingraining ID&E into our DNA through 
training, policies, and practices
•
  C
ommunity – amplifying our ID&E impact beyond  
our walls
This strategy makes promoting ID&E a collective 
responsibility — as an organization and as individual employees. In so doing, we can extend our positive impact from the company to the communities in which we operate, hire from, and live.Our progress 
Accelerating the pace of change to advance inclusion, diversity, and equity requires new approaches and ways of thinking. We have taken several strategic actions to help us move faster toward zero barriers to equity. This includes shifting to a leader-led model for ID&E, building stronger accountability across our organization, setting new five-year organizational diversity representation goals, measuring beyond representation, and being even more transparent publicly about our progress.  Our approach helped us surpass the corporate benchmark for inclusion, where our FY22 inclusion  rating achieved world-class levels,
1 it also earned us  
a top-ten spot on DiversityInc’s 2022 Top 50 Companies for Diversity.
In FY22, we made progress on our goals to have more 
women and people from ethnically diverse groups in management positions, and we increased hiring rates for women and ethnically diverse talent. Our total population of woman employees remained stable  while our total population of ethnically diverse employees slightly increased. 
FY26 LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY GOALS
FY15 baseline FY22 progress FY26 goal
Manager-and-above positions globally held  
by women32% 42% 45%
Manager-and-above positions in the United States held by people from ethnically diverse groups17% 27% 30%INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, AND EQUITY
Our ID&E commitment
Our unwavering commitment to 
ID&E means we are working toward zero barriers to opportunity within Medtronic and toward a culture where all employees belong, are respected, and feel valued for who they are and the life experiences they contribute.ID&E STRATEGIC PILLARS
1  T his benchmark was derived via internal historical OHS data and externally published 
reports from highly reputable survey vendors and through professional judgment.  
We have also compared survey results against a global normative database and leveraged data collected through a panel vendor to inform the benchmarks.Strategic Pillars
Individual
Be accounta ble role 
models for inclusion 
and diversityCompany
Ingrain inclusion and 
equity into our DNACommunity
Amplify our impact 
beyond Medtronic
Desired Outcomes
Culture of 
belongingEquity in 
opportunity  
and payMeasurable 
social impactWorld-class 
diverse talent 
destinat ionour global 
communities
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
58 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexLeadership’s role in ID&E 
ID&E is a business priority, and we believe that driving 
progress begins with our leadership. In FY22, we focused on ensuring accountability for meeting ID&E goals by tying executive compensation to ID&E results. Up to  15% of annual incentive compensation for senior Medtronic executives
1 now depends on their 
performance against ID&E objectives. In FY22, we also rolled out a new Board Diversity Policy providing guidelines for diversity criteria when considering the composition of our board. 
We also set new FY26 goals for diverse representation 
in management positions after meeting our FY20 goals. We aim for 45% of manager-and-above roles globally to be held by women and for 30% of those roles in the United States to be held by people from ethnically diverse groups. By the end of FY22, women held 42% of manager-and-above roles globally and people from ethnically diverse groups held 27% of those in the United States. 
To progress toward our goals, vice presidents (VPs) and 
other senior executives develop individualized plans to drive ID&E in their operating unit, region, or function. Doing so acknowledges the unique context and needs of each team and equips leaders to drive progress in a locally relevant way. Additionally, the CEO and members of the executive team conduct a Quarterly Diversity Review to evaluate ID&E progress, integrating best practices from external partners, internal leaders, and diversity networks. These reviews serve as a mechanism to hold our top leaders accountable and help them learn and grow.
Read more about our work on ID&E in our Global ID&E 
2021 Annual Report.WOMAN TALENT GLOBALLY
FY20 FY21 FY22
Woman employees 49% 50% 50%
Manager-and-above positions held by women 39% 40% 42%
Management positions in revenue-generating functions (i.e., sales) 
held by women 32% 32% 34%
U.S. ETHNICALLY DIVERSE TALENT† 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Ethnically diverse employees 37%
 38%
 39%
Manager
-and-above positions held by people from ethnically  
diverse groups23%
 25%‡27%
† United States, excluding Puerto Rico (excludes blank, no data, or did not disclose). 
‡  T his number is based on fiscal year 2021 and therefore is different than the number reported for our calendar year 2020 target, where we achieved 24% ethnically diverse 
talent in manager-and-above positions. 
NEW HIRES† 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Woman (global) 51%‡ 50%§52%Ω
Ethnically diverse (U.S.) 52%  46%  47%
† Employee popula tion data expressed here may vary from our 10-K form depending on the time of year in which the data was gathered. 
‡ Z ero records have values out-of-bounds (e.g., age=0). 49 records do not specify gender. 
§ Z ero records have values out-of-bounds (e.g., age=0). 34 records do not specify gender. 
Ω Z ero records have values out-of-bounds (e.g., age=0). 24 records do not specify gender. 
BOARD DIVERSITY 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Woman 25%
 25% 30%
Ethnically diverse 17%
 17%
 20%INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, AND EQUITY
1   T his includes our C-suite and their direct reports, including 160 leaders at the vice 
president-level and above.50 %
of Medtronic employees  
were women in FY22
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
59 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexINCLUSION, DIVERSITY, AND EQUITY
DIVERSITY NETWORKS AND  
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
In FY22, we had eight  ERGs  
and five  Diversity NetworksEquity week
In its second year, our Action for Equity program expanded 
to include a week of activities designed to empower and enable employees to make their greatest contributions to equity within and beyond Medtronic. Over 6,000 employees participated in our FY22 Week of Action for Equity, which included activities like interactive group learning sessions, fireside chats on allyship, and exploration of our resource toolkit containing helpful articles, podcasts, and more. Afterwards, employees reported feeling inspired to do more.
“We decided as a team to 
hold each other accountable 
quarterly. We are turning  
allyship into action!” 
Equity Week attendeeIndividual’s role in ID&E 
Creating an environment where everyone feels safe 
and valued for who they are requires all Medtronic employees to be accountable role models for ID&E. 
Our Diversity Networks and Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs) help strengthen a sense of belonging across our company. These groups ensure everyone has a platform to share their voice and the voice of the community, collaborate across functions and levels, and advance programs and initiatives in the areas of talent, education and community, and partnerships. In FY22, more than 34,000 employees in 75 countries were members of a Diversity Network or ERG.
Diversity Networks
Diversity Networks provide a platform for employees from underrepresented populations to connect and provide feedback to our leadership. Each of our five Diversity Networks has two co-chairs and an executive sponsor who reports directly to the CEO. 
Employee Resource Groups 
Our ERGs are grassroots affinity groups for employees with shared identities, backgrounds, and interests, as well as for allies. They provide a safe community to share, learn, and support one another. In FY22, we added a new ERG, Medtronic Seasoned Professionals (MSP), bringing our total number of ERGs to eight. MSP aims to develop a culture of inclusion and recognition for mature workers and leverage their experience to benefit all of Medtronic. 1in3
Medtronic employees were part 
of a Diversity Network or ERG 
in FY22 across 300+ hubs in 
75 countries.Awareness 
Benefiting 
Leadership and 
Employees about 
Disabilities 
(ABLED) American  
Indian  
Employee  
Resource  
GroupAsian Impact  
at Medtronic 
Network  
(AIM)
Medtronic  
Young  
ProfessionalsPRIDE  
NetworkAfrican  
Descent  
Network  
(ADN) 
Medtronic  
Jewish  
CommunityMedtronic 
Women’s  
Network  
(MWN) Christian  
Employee  
Resource  
GroupHispanic  
Latino  
Network  
(HLN)
Medtronic 
Seasoned 
Professionals  
(MSP)Muslims  
and  
Friends
Veterans  
Employee  
Resource  
Group
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
60 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexEmployee engagement 
Our Diversity Networks are just one avenue for diverse 
employees to share their feedback with us. In our annual Organizational Health Survey (OHS), we ask employees to rate their sense of belonging and engagement so that we can better understand their experiences and needs. We use this feedback to adjust our communications and programs to provide employees with better support. 
Our overall rates of survey completion remain high. In 
FY22, our survey was completed by 83% of employees, with employees who regularly participate in a Diversity Network or ERG twice as likely to be engaged compared with those who do not. We also saw strong engagement scores across gender, achieving 81% for women and 80% for men. Of the employees who completed the survey, 84% reported feeling they belong at Medtronic and 92% felt that Medtronic embraces cultural differences. In addition, 85% reported feeling that Medtronic fosters a workplace that allows them to  be themselves.
We underscore the importance of individual 
accountability by celebrating our ID&E champions through recognition of their actions with honors like our annual Global Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity (GIDE) Awards. Read more about several of our 2021 award winners in our Global ID&E 2021 Annual Report.Company’s role in ID&E 
ID&E considerations are integrated into our corporate business strategies and are incorporated companywide through training and the adoption of research-informed practices to ensure we meet our ID&E goals. This includes building inclusive environments globally and developing workforce diversity through hiring, training, and mentorship.
Policies
Our robust human rights policies provide a framework  to protect the dignity of, and ensure equal opportunities for, each Medtronic employee. Our Code of Conduct, Global Human Rights and Labor Standards Policy,  Global Inclusion and Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, and others safeguard employees from discrimination, harassment, retaliation, and more while protecting their right to fair compensation. We continuously monitor changes in the local, national, and international regulatory environment to ensure our policies remain up to date. Read more about these and our other human rights policies. 
Pay equity
At Medtronic, we address pay equity through equitable employment policies and practices. In addition, we conduct an annual pay equity audit in the United States and several other countries to continue to improve equity. 
In FY22, we achieved 100% gender pay equity and 
ethnically diverse pay equity in the United States. Our current analysis shows that globally, gender pay equity is at 99%. We continue to work toward reaching 100%.Practices
We drive diverse representation at all levels through outreach to diverse candidates, training to support diverse promotions, and mentorship to help diverse leaders overcome barriers to continued growth. We partner with leading external organizations to learn and adopt best practices for creating work environments where employees from diverse backgrounds and identities can thrive. 
Diverse recruitment
We aspire for our teams to better reflect the communities they serve. We partner with our Diversity Networks and ERGs to help us create relationships with organizations aligned with our ID&E hiring goals, such as OneTen, and others, including: 
•
  Multiple P
athways Initiative – Led by the Business 
Roundtable, this initiative is a multiyear effort to 
eliminate internal and external barriers to advancing diversity in STEM. As part of our pilot year, we replaced degree requirements with skills requirements for five IT job families, representing 25% of our  IT roles. 
•
  Medtr
onic Advancement Pathways and Skill Building 
(MAPS) - Research shows that underrepresented groups historically have limited access to a four-year college degree, so we set out to remove financial barriers to college education. We implemented a pilot at seven U.S.-based locations where we provided tuition for employees pursuing online undergraduate degrees. Following the success of the pilot, in FY23 we will launch the program across the United States and Puerto Rico.INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, AND EQUITY
ID&E award
Federico Gavioli, our VP , Diabetes for Europe, 
Middle East, and Africa, received the 2021 GIDE Award for his ID&E contributions to our Diabetes operating unit. His team established the Mindset Awards to recognize actions that foster adoption of the Medtronic Mindset and give visibility to diversity. Federico and his team also launched a campaign to raise awareness, mitigate bias, and increase inclusion in diabetes care. 
$4.8M
contributed to ID&E non-profit partners  
including SHPE, TMCF, OneTen, and more.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
61 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
Federico Gavioli 
VP , Diabetes for EMEA
•  T hurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF) –  
We partnered with TMCF to cultivate a pipeline of 
talent from Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Through the partnership, we hired 41 summer interns of African descent in FY22 – an increase from 8% in 2020 to 20% in 2021.
•
  Society of
 Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) – 
Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation partnered with SHPE to help remove barriers to Hispanic and Latino students studying STEM subjects. The Medtronic Foundation has committed more than  $3 million over the next four years for scholarships and Medtronic now offers internships and mentorship opportunities to SHPE students. 
We also hold Diversity Career Events to connect with diverse candidates through professional societies, like SHPE. In FY22, we held 14 virtual Diversity Career Events for different demographic groups to hire for roles in sales, engineering, software, and more.Empowering diverse leaders
To increase representation of diverse employees in leadership roles, we offer several training and mentorship programs to promising talent. Our programs are tailored to address the specific barriers employees from underrepresented groups face, such as a lack of access to professional networks. 
Our programs include:
•
  LIFT
 – a nine-month development program for high-
potential managers with sponsorship and mentorship 
from senior executives. In FY22, the number of LIFT participants increased by over 60% and the program achieved a 93% retention rate among participants.
•
  Efficacy
 – a cohort-based leadership development 
program designed for Diversity Network and ERG members. In FY22, Efficacy trained 389 participants and received an average score of 97% on participant satisfaction. 
•
  Impact 
– a year-long mentorship program for high-
potential individual contributors from historically INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, AND EQUITY
underrepresented populations. Thirty-two percent of the FY22 participants received a promotion, of which nearly 100% were ethnically diverse.
•
  Acceler
ate – a new program that pairs directors and 
emerging talent of African descent with a VP-level sponsor. We look forward to sharing the results of this program upon the completion of its first year.
•
  VP W
omen’s Sponsorship – a year-long program 
in which 15 female VPs are paired with a high-level Medtronic executive as their sponsor. Our third  cohort will launch in FY23.
ID&E beyond Medtronic
To facilitate lasting change, we believe in amplifying our impact beyond our walls by investing in our local communities. Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation partner with nonprofit organizations and business alliances to advance equity broadly across society. For example, as a founding member of OneTen, Medtronic is spearheading efforts in Minnesota to hire Black Americans for skilled jobs, with opportunities for advancement at Medtronic and across our home state. We also leverage the scale of our company by working with women- and minority-owned suppliers. To read more about our approach to supplier diversity, see Supply chain responsibility.
STEM careers
Black and Hispanic workers continue to be underrepresented in STEM fields. With the rate of STEM job growth set to outpace non-STEM job growth by 2030, encouraging diverse students to enter STEM careers will be a key opportunity to meet hiring needs. Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation are investing in opportunities to support students from underserved and underrepresented communities to pursue STEM education. The initiative has committed to support students from kindergarten through graduate programs across North America by covering tuition fees, providing internship and mentorship opportunities, and offering practical skill-building experiences. In FY21, we also partnered with TMCF to provide $10 million in scholarship funding over the next 5 years to support  250 students.
Advancing diversity in STEM
OneTen's mission is to hire, promote, and advance 1 million Black individuals who do not have a 
four-year degree into family-sustaining careers over the next 10 years. 
As a founding member of OneTen, along with nearly 30 other companies, Medtronic has committed 
to advance OneTen's mission by working to close the “opportunity gap” faced by Black Americans without a four-year college degree. We are approaching this challenge with a skills-first model, creating new career pathways at Medtronic.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
62 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexINCLUSION, DIVERSITY, AND EQUITY
ID&E recognition
We are proud to be recognized for our commitment 
to making our workplaces and communities more equitable. In May 2022, we were named as one of the top 10 Companies for Diversity by DiversityInc. Some of our other awards for ID&E are shown in the table.
Top 10
In May 2022, we were named  
as one of the top 10 Companies  
for Diversity by DiversityInc
Date Award
2022 Ranked as #4 for mentoring; #5 for supplier diversity;  
#11 for environmental, social, and governance; and #13 for sponsorship by DiversityInc
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality and top score of  
100 on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index
Campus Forward Award
Brandon Hall Human Capital Management Award Gold Medal 
in the category Best Learning Program that Supports and Promotes ID&E for our Inclusive Leader Training
2021 Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award
 Society of
 Women Engineers Diversity & Inclusion Award
 Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion and top score of 100 on the Disability Equality Index, a joint initiative of the American Association of People with Disabilities and Disability:IN
America’s Best Employers for Diversity by Forbes
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
63 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index5,000
new tools and resources for  
learning and training added
$49M+
spent on learning and  
development — roughly  
$500 per employeeWorld-classWorld-class
levels of employee engagement,  
as gauged by our Organizational 
Health Survey
9%
decrease in near misses reported 
compared to the previous year, 
despite an increase in overall incident 
reporting due to our new automated 
hazard reporting systemAdding business value
Safeguarding the well-being of our employees gives 
them the peace of mind to fully engage with their work. Our well-rounded employee support — at work and at home — results in higher productivity, engagement, and retention and lower rates of absenteeism. 
We further expanded our robust 
benefit offerings, including enhanced 
fertility and family planning coverageSupporting 
a global workforceSOCIAL IMPACT
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
64 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
Our global and diverse employees make 
innovation possible. We strive to take the same care with their health, safety, and well-being as we do for our patients – both on-site and at home. Our EHS system, a robust suite of health and wellness benefits, and fair and equitable pay foster employee health, safety, and well-being and inspire employees to engineer the extraordinary. We empower employees in their careers at Medtronic with regular performance reviews and training programs to build skills and celebrate their contributions. Development and engagement
We design our learning and development programs 
to attract and retain world-class talent from global and diverse populations, sparking innovation and driving opportunity. Our investments in development help our talent embody the Medtronic Mindset, giving them the tools to act boldly, compete to win, move with speed and decisiveness, foster belonging, and deliver results. Employees at every level have access to training opportunities in multiple formats, meeting individual learning needs and enabling employees to grow in their career. As a global healthcare technology leader, we ensure programs are available at every Medtronic location and in languages relevant to our employees. In addition to our formal programs, we offer on-demand digital courses and resources for employees who want to direct their own learning or focus on a particular skill. We partner with several platforms to deliver digital learning to employees, including Degreed, Harvard ManageMentor, getAbstract, Cornerstone OnDemand, Adeption, and others.
In FY22, we delivered most of our professional 
development courses virtually due to the ongoing pandemic. We continued to grow our offerings in  FY22, providing more than 32,000 learning resources,  an increase of more than 5,000 tools and courses  over the previous year. Some of the new learning  tools we launched in FY22 include:
•
  Skills Lab
 – a new technology platform, powered 
by our partner Degreed, that enables employees to 
target and develop specific skills.
•
  Mind G
ym – a set of tools based on behavioral 
science principles to help leaders solve problems more effectively.In FY22, we spent more than $49 million on learning and development — an average of nearly $500 per employee. Our employees completed an average of 33 hours of training per person, enabled by these additional virtual resources. As employees return to the office, we plan to shift to a hybrid learning model, retaining many of these virtual tools while also returning to in-person training. 
$49M+
spent on learning and development in FY22, 
an average of nearly $500 per employeeSUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE
Another successful Grow Your Career Week!
In FY22, we hosted our third annual Grow Your Career Week (GYCW), a series of events 
held globally to inform employees about the wide variety of leadership, learning, and career development opportunities offered at Medtronic. Features of GYCW include interactive workshops, panel discussions, podcasts, and a dedicated Yammer channel for networking. During our FY22 GYCW, over 97,000 learning activities occurred companywide — 40% more than the previous year — and included 60+ live sessions  and 7,000+ digital interactions.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
65 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexLeadership development
A good relationship between employee and manager 
is central to job satisfaction, retention, and promotion. We focus on identifying and promoting high-potential employees into managerial roles and equipping managers with the right leadership skills to engage and develop their team members. 
We offer targeted leadership development programs for 
employees at different levels, including:
•
  Edge
 – teaches leadership skills for all managers 
focused on the Medtronic Mindset
•
  Eleva
te – prepares manager-level leaders for the  
next career step
•
  Emer
ge – accelerates professional development  
for emerging leaders
•
  Ignite
 – prepares director-level leaders to  
become executives
•
  Internal C
oaching Certification – trains leaders to 
become certified coaches
•
  VP 
Welcome – supports new vice presidents as  
they make their career transition
We also offer dedicated programs to support employees 
from underrepresented groups to overcome barriers to career growth. An inclusive, diverse, and equitable workforce empowers everyone to reach their potential, enabling our success. Read more about these  programs in Inclusion, diversity, and equity.Career growth
Sharing feedback and providing guidance and support to employees is a key component of promoting our performance-driven culture in which everyone is motivated to perform and achieve organizational success. Employees meet with their managers three to six times per year to review goals and discuss performance, and managers hold themselves and their team accountable to goals by measuring results and impact. In FY22, 98% of employees participated in an annual performance review. 
In FY22, in response to employee and manager 
feedback, we made two notable adjustments to our formal evaluation and check-in process. We changed the timeline for goal setting and mid-year career development conversations, holding both conversations earlier in the year. Based on feedback, we also  separated conversations on performance from those  on development and inclusion to clarify achievements and improvement areas.
We employ a forward-looking approach to career 
development through our Organization and Talent Planning (OTP) process, a critical program that enables us to achieve Tenet 5 of our Mission through the identification and development of our future leaders. This proactive process helps us plan for future talent needs and deliver on business outcomes. OTP has three key components that all people leaders are expected to follow:
•
  Assess the potential,
 retention risk, and career 
development actions for all direct reports.
•
  Mitiga
te business risk through the identification of 
successors for intentional talent movement.
•
  Ensur
e that focused development actions aligned 
to our talents’ potential are executed for career and 
development growth.
In addition to our OTP process, we formally integrated Strategic Workforce Planning with our annual business strategic planning process in FY22. This framework ensures that we are proactively identifying the capabilities needed to deliver companywide strategies in partnership with the business and finance teams. Through this application and our OTP process, we will continue to advance leadership skills to more proactively assess and plan for organizational talent needs.
We also support employees’ career ambitions by 
tracking our rates of internal hiring. Hiring from within not only encourages retention by providing internal pathways for career growth, but also helps us retain institutional knowledge. We maintain this emphasis on internal hiring in conjunction with our hiring initiatives that bring in external talent to fuel innovation and add more perspectives to our company culture.SUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE
INTERNAL HIRING
FY20 FY21 FY22
Total roles filled with internal candidates 34% 31% 29%
VP roles filled with internal candidates 91% 91% 79%
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
66 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexRecognition
Recognizing a job well done is essential. Managers are 
encouraged to acknowledge employee achievements during formal evaluations and general check-ins. They may also reward notable contributions through our Recognize! Platform, which enables managers and employees to celebrate the achievements, accomplishments, and milestones of team members. 
We also have a formal awards program to recognize 
exceptional achievements in technology, quality, leadership, and ethics, including:
•
  Bakk
en Fellowship – honors employees who have 
made multiple technical contributions to the company 
and to the biomedical device industry.
•
  C
ompass Award – recognizes employees who  
live out the Medtronic Mission by demonstrating  high-integrity behavior that champions our Code  of Conduct.
•
  Global Inclusion,
 Diversity, and Equity Leadership 
Award – recognizes VPs who champion an inclusive work environment.
•
  S
tar of Excellence – acknowledges quality and 
innovation of the highest level.
•
  EHS 
Sustainability Award – celebrates projects that 
exemplify the many ways Medtronic contributes to a sustainable business, workforce, and environment.
•
  W
allin Leadership Award – recognizes leaders 
who actively foster an inclusive and diverse work environment and successfully develop leadership talent to enable superior business outcomes.Employee engagement
Effective feedback must include a two-way dialogue.  We solicit input from employees through our internal social media channels and our Organizational Health Survey (OHS), which we conduct annually.
1 In FY22,  
a record 83% of full- and part-time employees responded to the OHS.
The survey indicated that 90% of employees who 
completed the survey feel proud to work at  Medtronic and 93% feel Medtronic has a positive  impact on the world.
To continuously improve the employee experience, 
we use OHS results and other employee feedback to adjust how we operate and interact with one another. For example, only 60% of respondents rated their stress levels as being reasonable. With this information, we  are taking steps to support employees and lessen  work-related stress, including:
•
  Intr
oducing the Four Weeks from Anywhere program.
•
 F
acilitating uninterrupted, protected work time.
•
  F
ocusing on task prioritization and meeting 
management. 90 %
of employees report that they 
feel proud to work at Medtronic 
and 93% said they feel Medtronic 
has a positive impact on the 
world, according to our FY22 
Organizational Health SurveySUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE
ORGANIZATIONAL HEALTH SURVEY RESULTS 
(excerpt)
FY20 FY21†FY22
Employee engagement score 77% – 80%
Percent of employees who reported feeling proud  
to work at Medtronic 89% – 90%
Percent of employees who reported actively looking  for ways to improve their work91% – 94%
Percent of employees who reported feeling Medtronic  has a positive impact on the world
‡NA NA 93%
†  Our all-employee OHS was postponed in FY21 due to the pandemic. Instead, we distributed an online pulse survey to employees with access to a Medtronic email address.
‡ This question first appeared in our FY22 survey; data is not available for FY20 or FY21.
1  Our all-employee OHS was postponed in FY21 due to the pandemic. Instead,  
we distributed an online pulse survey to employees with access to a Medtr onic  
email address.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
67 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexHealth and safety
Our industry-leading healthcare technologies are 
developed and produced through harnessing the expertise of each employee. A safe and healthy work environment enables our workforce to innovate insight-driven care and experiences that put people first, driving better outcomes for our world.
Our approach
Medtronic is committed to a safe, healthy work environment that is in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Through our Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Policy and our EHS Management System (EHS MS), we establish enterprise-wide standards, objectives, and processes for health and safety risk evaluation, compliance, continual improvement, verification, communication, and education. 
EHS management and performance systems
Our EHS MS is aligned with industry best practices including ISO 14001 (environmental management) and ISO 45001 (occupational health and safety management). The management system helps us assess EHS impacts and risks in our organization by providing a: 
•
  S
ystematic method for managing EHS and  
improving performance.
•
  S
tructure to address the impacts of the  
company’s products, services, and processes on  
the environment.
•
  S
tandard for allocating resources, establishing 
responsibilities, and evaluating practices, procedures, and processes.
All employees are expected to develop a proactive, cooperative attitude toward health and safety. Our Environmental, Health, and Safety Performance System (EHS PS) helps us drive a culture of safety through the careful monitoring of our recordable incident rate, safety standards, employee training, and auditing. The EHS PS provides each employee with the practices and tools to reduce risks and employ the competencies and safe behaviors necessary to succeed. It also exemplifies the actions and behavior expectations to be displayed by leadership and employees alike and provides a heightened awareness and sense of ownership in EHS. 
Our progress
In FY22, we maintained our best-in-class level of safety across our global operations and supply chain. Our overall safety record improved with rates of high-consequence work-related injuries and lost workdays declining compared to the previous two years. Our overall injury incident rate increased slightly in FY22, to 0.21 compared to 0.20 in FY21, primarily due to an increase in slips, trips, and falls. In response, we published and communicated slip, trip, and fall campaigns across all sites, improved outdoor walking surfaces and lighting where deficiencies were identified, emphasized use of stair rails while ascending or descending stairways, and promoted heightened awareness while walking on our premises. 
To bring rapid companywide attention to hazards, we 
launched a Global Alert program. The program provides summary communications to relevant businesses of a high-risk or significant EHS incident that has the potential to result in, or has resulted in, major injury, illness, environmental release, or property damage. We also  introduced our own EHS PS, including reducing  high-consequence injury rates and increasing rates of hazard reporting.SUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE
SAFETY RECORD†‡§ 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Employee injury incident rateΩ0.26 0.20 0.21
Employee lost/restricted workday case rate††0.15 0.13 0.12
Fatalities 1§§1§§0
High-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities) 5 5 1
† Our safety records include all employees as well as contingent workers working at Medtronic facilities.
‡ Safety data has been verified by an external third party. 
§ FY22 injury incident, lost/restricted workday case rate, and fatalities have been verified by ERM CVS.
Ω The number of work-related injuries or illnesses serious enough to require treatment beyond first aid, per 100 employees working a full year.
††  The number of work-related injuries or illnesses serious enough to cause an employee to miss one or more workdays or to have one or more workdays of restricted duty,  
per 100 employees working a full year.
§ § Motor vehicle collision.
FY22 Health and Safety Recognition
All four of our Puerto Rico manufacturing sites received environmental and safety 
performance awards from the Puerto Rico Manufacturers Association (above). 
Nine Medtronic sites in the state of Minnesota received the Governor’s Safety Award —  
recognizing these sites for their exceptional safety performance and program compared to national industry averages.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
68 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexContinuous improvement
Employee involvement and feedback improves safety 
programs and performance. We provide several opportunities for employees to be involved in their personal, team, and company safety, as well as methods to provide feedback. 
For example, our online hazard reporting system allows 
employees to identify and report hazards and support action to mitigate or eliminate the associated risks. We also encourage employees to report potential hazards, such as water leaks or fire risks, along with near-miss incidents. In FY22, our employees reported more than 57,000 potential hazards and 486 near misses, an increase of 66% and decrease of 9%, respectively, compared to FY21. Hazard reporting increased year  over year due to wider companywide adoption of  our new reporting tools. 
As part of our annual corporate-wide Organizational 
Health Survey (OHS), we solicit feedback on workplace safety. Of the 83% of full- and part-time employees who responded to the FY22 survey, more than 90% reported feeling that:
•
  Medtr
onic provides a safe and healthy work 
environment and encourages safe working behaviors.
•
  T
hey felt comfortable reporting safety concerns and 
injuries at work.
Continued safety amid COVID-19
As an essential business during COVID-19, keeping 
our employees and customers safe while fulfilling our Mission was and continues to be a top priority. The protective measures we implemented, combined with the new ways of conducting business during this SUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE
COVID-19 controls
Include:
•
 Cr
oss-functional COVID-19 Safety team 
•
  C
entralized COVID-19 Assessment Team and 
intake process
•
 R
evised global pandemic standard
•
  Risk
-based assessment tool to determine 
adequacy of site-level controls•   Utiliza tion database tool to quickly 
communicate site cases
•
 Hybrid R
eturn to Office Policy and program
•
 V
entilation efficiency and filtration upgrades
•
 Employee V
accination Programunprecedented event, reduced COVID-19 related risks 
and impacts to our organization.
Our multifaceted approach to navigating the COVID-19 
pandemic involves cross-functional efforts across the organization. Our Medical Affairs staff provides factual, science-based information to guide our decisions and actions. This internal guidance, paired with governmental requirements, enhances our governance approach, helping us create the necessary framework to direct  our practices.
To maintain safe and healthy work environments amid 
the pandemic, we established cleaning protocols,  paired with stringent facility-entry requirements.  We also implemented a global system to manage  and track employee COVID-19 cases and assist with  case investigations. To keep employees informed  and vigilant throughout the pandemic, we used communication campaigns, facility signage,  employee trainings, and educational sessions, as well as strongly encouraging vaccinations and holding on-site vaccination clinics. 
Health and safety assurance 
As part of our efforts to drive continuous improvement and provide transparency, Medtronic retained an accredited and competent independent organization, ERM CVS, to assess, verify, and certify our FY22 health, safety, and environmental sustainability data. We proudly acknowledge the receipt of the following Letters of Assurance for Health and Safety data from ERM CVS: 
•
  L
etter of Accreditation for Medtronic’s FY22 Health & 
Safety program  
•
  L
etter of Assurance for Medtronic’s FY22 Integrated 
Performance Report
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
69 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexCompensation, benefits, and wellness
We support our 95,000+ passionate employees from 
onboarding through retirement with compensation, benefits, and wellness programs. Providing robust benefits and equitable compensation packages helps us attract and retain the industry-leading talent necessary to engineer the extraordinary. We continuously seek ways to improve our compensation and benefits offerings to be more inclusive and support a greater diversity of needs. 
Compensation
We design our compensation framework to support  a culture of performance and to recognize and reward our employees in more than 80 countries for their ongoing commitment. Our competitive compensation plans include base salary, cash incentives based on a variety of performance measures, retirement contributions, a stock purchase plan, and, for nominated employees, equity in the company. Our compensation  is comparable with industry benchmarks and local market standards. We apply the same methodology  to determining executive compensation, overseen by  the board of directors’ Compensation Committee.  To learn more about executive compensation, see  our Proxy Statement.
We conduct pay gap analyses in the United States and 
10 other countries and adjust to close any gaps not based on job-related factors. In FY22, we achieved 100% gender and ethnically diverse pay equity in the United States. Globally, gender pay equity is at 99%. Read more about pay equity in Inclusion, diversity, and equity.Benefits
We round out our compensation plans with robust health and lifestyle benefits. Our benefits package provides care for employees and their families and, in many locations, includes:
•
 He
alth, dental, disability, and life insurance.
•
 P
aid time off.
•
 P
aid volunteer time.
•
 Medtr
onic Employee Assistance program. 
•
 Sick and family car
e leave.
•
 R
etirement plans.
•
 Access to our employee stock pur
chase plan.
We update our benefit package regularly by enhancing 
existing offerings and providing additional or improved benefits to meet the diverse needs of our employees. In the United States, we expanded our value-based health plan offering to provide lower-cost options. We also enhanced our fertility and family planning benefits to cover additional treatments and increased coverage for adoption, donor, and surrogacy reimbursement. 
We continue to focus on embedding inclusion and 
diversity considerations into our global benefits portfolio. We are currently defining an essential health standard for all employees that considers topics such  as access to vaccines, maternity care, mental health,  and more. Employees in select countries can review  their rewards package at any time through our online portal, MyRewards.SUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE
Supporting growing families
We provide our employees with a suite of health services to support family planning. In FY22, 
we added several new and expanded services for U.S. employees, including personalized health coaching for new parents and fertility and parenthood articles through the LGBTQ+-inclusive Ovia Health app. We also increased our Adoption, Donor, and Surrogacy Reimbursement Program benefit to include donor egg and sperm expenses, including legal and adoption fees.Work flexibility
As our teams return to the office, we want to retain the lessons learned from our extended work-from-home period. To support work-life balance and continue the flexibility offered by remote work, we instituted a new hybrid work model — a combination of working on- and off-site by flexing between a Medtronic facility and an approved remote location. The program is dependent on the nature of the role and, to be eligible, employees must ensure business and customer needs are met. Due to the pandemic, in FY22, most employees continued working from home. The program will likely go into full effect in FY23.
Employees can also take advantage of our 4 Weeks from Anywhere program which allows 
them to work from anywhere in the world for one month out of the year, as long as business and customer needs can be met.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
70 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexWellness
Our wellness benefits promote a holistic approach to 
good health. Our Healthier Together program, available to nearly 100% of employees globally, supports the physical, emotional, social, and financial well-being of our employees. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, we expanded the program’s virtual offerings to provide wellness support to employees working from home. Virtual resources included activities such as guided meditation, yoga, and workout sessions. Access to additional offerings is available to employees  through our YouTube channel. 
The program offers a wide range of services for 
employees. For example, in the United States, we  offer a blood pressure management program through Hello Heart that helps members monitor their blood pressure and track medications. At office locations, we also provide on-site gyms with live classes to help employees stay fit.
In FY22, through our Healthier Together initiative, we 
held Rhythms That Move You, a wellness challenge to help employees build community and healthy habits together. Nearly 3,500 participants joined the challenge and nearly 54% of those engaged developed social connections as a result. Additionally, over 18,000 digital coaching sessions were completed.
Healthier Together members report high rates of success 
using the program. Of participants with high-risk health issues, 62% reported being more active. In addition to Healthier Together, we offer  employees access to two additional health and  well-being programs:
•
  Medtr
onic Employee Assistance program – 
supplements our existing health and wellness benefits 
with services such as financial and legal advice and mental health counseling.
•
  Medtr
onic Employee Emergency Assistance Fund – 
supports employees in times of personal crisis, such as a serious illness or natural disaster. Donations to the fund are made by employees and matched dollar-for-dollar by the Medtronic Foundation.SUPPORTING A GLOBAL WORKFORCE
Welcoming Ginger
In FY22, we added a new global benefit to our Medtronic Employee Assistance Program: 
Ginger, on-demand emotional health support. Ginger provides users with access to trained behavioral health coaches, licensed therapists and psychiatrists, and clinically validated resources. For U.S.-based employees, the first six counseling sessions are included with standard coverage and additional sessions are available based on medical benefits.Stepping into better health
The COVID-19 pandemic was a wake-up call for Medtronic employee Riddhi Gandhi.  “It helped me realize that my health is as much a priority as my family and my work,” she said. That’s when she decided to join the Wondr program through Healthier Together. Wondr helps participants achieve a healthier weight through behavioral changes. The program encouraged her to adopt healthy habits, like taking daily  walks and staying hydrated. Riddhi lost 30 pounds, her weight loss goal, after one year in the program.“The resources we have at 
Medtronic through Healthier 
Together are truly there for our 
benefit. We are lucky to have 
such resources at hand.” 
Riddhi Gandhi 
Medtronic employee
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
71 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexPatient safety and 
product qualitySOCIAL IMPACT
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
72 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
Adding business value
Delivering safe and effective products is our 
responsibility as a global healthcare technology  leader and is essential to our business success.  We devote meticulous attention to product quality  to keep patients safe, and, in turn, we maintain the  trust of our stakeholders and uphold our reputation among patients and healthcare professionals.Our innovative technologies transform 
the lives of two people every second. Ensuring the quality, safety, and reliability of our products and therapies is essential to the well-being of those who depend on them. We extend our high standards for quality across our value chain to every employee, partner, and distributor. 2,000
employees dedicated to  
ensuring our clinical trials  
are robustly designed and 
efficiently conducted
78 %
of new products in our pipeline 
are achieving high-maturity 
implementation of design, 
reliability, manufacturability methodologyOur approach to patient safety and 
product quality 
We prioritize the needs and well-being of patients in 
all facets of our product quality initiatives. The safety of our patients is inextricably linked to the quality of our technology, and we consider the weight of this responsibility through every stage of development. 
Patient safety
We take our safety commitment to patients, their families, and their clinicians seriously. We are committed to producing safe and effective healthcare technologies and advancing a culture of patient-centricity and quality.
Our operating units collaborate with the new Patient 
Safety and Risk Board — composed of senior medical, quality, and regulatory corporate leaders — to evaluate and advise appropriate action on safety and quality issues that pose risks to patients or users.
In FY22, we reorganized our Medical Safety group under 
the supervision of a new chief medical safety officer. The group matches teams of dedicated medical safety experts with various operating units and therapy areas. These internal experts use their clinical experience to assess the risk, benefit, and safety concerns throughout the product life cycle. They also engage with external practitioners in formalized panels to incorporate up-to-date, real-world data and expertise into how we evaluate safety issues.
We will continue to enhance our commitment to safety 
through Put Patients First, an imperative launching in FY23 that will further ensure quality and patient safety are embedded in our culture. Put Patients First will inspire and require employees to work with a sense  of purpose and ownership, knowing there is a human  life on the other side of every decision.
Product quality 
In FY22, we launched a cross-functional, enterprise-wide product quality plan to drive consistency and accountability across the company, ensuring we deliver on our Mission to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life. The plan focuses on increasing consistency and rigor across the quality systems, including the areas of risk management and product design.
We monitor compliance with our quality standards at 
every point in a product’s life cycle, from design and manufacturing through product testing and post-market surveillance. Our risk management process is aligned  to the ISO 14971 standard for medical devices and enables us to rapidly identify and escalate potential issues. We also align our quality management systems with relevant regulations and international standards, including 21 CFR Part 820 and ISO 13485, and we regularly communicate with and train employees to reinforce our Put Patients First imperative.
Oversight
Our board and executive leadership ultimately oversee quality matters. The board’s Quality Committee supervises risks relating to product quality and safety, cybersecurity, and research. Our chief quality officer  sits on the executive committee and reports directly  to the CEO. Product development
Design, reliability, manufacturability
Our design, reliability, manufacturability (DRM) framework is a set of best practices that drive product quality, safety, and reliability for all types of Medtronic medical devices, including standalone software products and those that include software. We work to embed  DRM in every stage of the product design and development process through: 
•
  Applica
tion of predictive engineering in the 
development of devices.
•
  A
 mandate from our company leadership for  
DRM accountability.
•
  Customized DRM tr
aining and certification for  
project development teams as well as progressive 
training and certification companywide.
•
  P
roject assessments to ensure consistent use across 
our project portfolio.
•
  K
ey performance indicators to help evaluate  
DRM progress.
•
  Annual assessments and impr
ovement plans at 
product development locations.
•
  Skills and capability development for k
ey functions 
such as Research and Development, Operations, Quality, Medical Safety, Regulatory, and Marketing.
DRM sits at the heart of our predictive engineering process, which our engineers use to simulate  product use, forecast performance, and pinpoint potential improvements. At the end of FY22, 78% of  new products in our pipeline are achieving high- maturity implementation of design, reliability, manufacturability methodology.Manufacturing and supplier quality
Our standardized manufacturing quality programs promote a consistent approach across product manufacturing processes. These programs include our First Time Quality (FTQ) methodology and our Supplier Optimization and Risk Reduction (SOAR) process.
FTQ instills quality awareness across the workforce, 
strengthens risk identification skills, and embeds a  “Do Not Make Defects” mentality across the product  life cycle. FTQ delivers a 90% reduction of high- business-impact risks and quality instabilities on  targeted workflows.
In FY22, we expanded FTQ into the workflows of our new 
product development and other transactional processes across our business to further reduce the potential for errors. We also:
•
  Acceler
ated FTQ coach training to make the program 
self-sustainable at key manufacturing sites.
•
  Developed a new FT
Q portal to track event execution 
and risk mitigation, as well as coach development.
•
  Established FT
Q Communities of Practice to share 
knowledge, recognize top performance, and 
strengthen quality culture.
SOAR is a continuous improvement strategy that uses predictive and preventive risk assessments to reduce risk and optimize our supply base to avoid product supply disruptions. Through the program, we partner with our suppliers to identify potential hazardous situations and implement best-in-class processes and tools to prevent these hazards from becoming issues.PATIENT SAFETY AND PRODUCT QUALITY
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
73 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexFacility compliance
We assess quality management systems at our 
manufacturing, design, and distribution centers through global internal audits and corporate excellence assessments. These focus on maintaining consistently high-quality management levels and complying with evolving regulatory requirements.
External regulatory audits help to keep us accountable, 
aware of regulatory priorities, and focused on making necessary changes to policies and practices. We share the findings and actions from these activities across the enterprise via our knowledge management process. In FY22, 95% of external regulatory inspections at Medtronic facilities globally resulted in no findings.
We received an average of 0.38 findings per regulatory 
inspection overall and 2.6 findings per U.S. FDA inspection in FY22. These figures were partially affected by an increase in FDA inspections after the lifting of COVID-19 restrictions. We expect the number of external inspections to remain high in FY23 and are working to ensure all of our sites are operating in a manner that will produce positive regulatory inspection outcomes.Product security
We work proactively to identify, address, and minimize vulnerabilities in our products that could expose them to cyberattacks or other potential risks. 
Our Product Security Office manages our rigorous 
approach to security — including vulnerability testing, updates, and remediation — as well as impact assessment for device functionality and patient safety. We monitor current practices and emerging risks by engaging with employees, regulators, peers, healthcare delivery organizations, clinicians, and security researchers. 
As part of our global quality management system, 
subject matter experts within each operating unit are responsible for integrating security considerations throughout the product life cycle. In FY22, we established new leadership groups to advise the Product Security Office on the execution of our Enterprise Product Security Strategy, which comprises three pillars: A mindset of excellence, industry participation, and pre- and post-market maturity. We also trained 450 employees on product security best practices in FY22.
In FY22, we publicly disclosed six security vulnerabilities, 
which included security bulletins, updates to previous bulletins, and security notices responding to third-party risks that may not be applicable to Medtronic but helped address customer inquiries. Also, we became a CVE Numbering Authority, which allows us to move more rapidly and decisively in the coordinated disclosure process.
We publicly recognize the work of independent  
security researchers who have demonstrated ethical 
behavior and followed coordinated disclosure  processes to advance our product security. If anyone believes they have identified a potential security REGULATORY INSPECTIONS AND INTERNAL ASSESSMENTS AT OUR FACILITIES
FY20 FY21 FY22
External regulatory inspections at Medtronic sites globally 237 242 284 
External regulatory inspections globally that resulted in no findings 95% 99% 95% 
Average findings per external regulatory inspection 0.09 0.02 0.38
Average findings per FDA inspection 0.17 0.02 2.6
Internal assessments and supported improvements 46 21 28 PATIENT SAFETY AND PRODUCT QUALITY
95 %
of external regulatory 
inspections at our  
facilities globally  
resulted in  
no findings
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
74 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexvulnerability in any of our products or services or has 
questions or concerns, we encourage them to contact  us via Medtronic.com/security.
Our product security strategy includes a focus on pre- 
and post-market product security rigor and engagement in industry activities to help shape regulations, standards, technology, and practices. In FY22, we joined Optum, Boston Scientific, Abbott Laboratories, and others to help launch the new Center for Medical Device Cybersecurity (CMDC) at the University of Minnesota. We also serve on the steering committee for the center, which is a hub for discovery, outreach, and workforce training in the device security field.
Additionally, we participate in several industry bodies, 
including the Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center (H-ISAC), the National Capital Region Threat Intelligence Consortium, and the Medical Device Innovation Consortium. Many of our team members lead initiatives in these groups to help advance product security for the entire industry.Preclinical research
Preclinical research lets us examine how potential new treatments will function in practice, prior to evaluating them in clinical trials. Our biomedical research sometimes involves human cadaver and modeling work, animal-related research, and the use of animal-derived stem cells, but does not involve use of human embryonic stem cell lines.
Animal-related research
Animal research and testing is sometimes a regulatory requirement for the development of new medical products. We use animals in research activities only  when no acceptable alternatives exist, as described in our Policy Regarding the Use of Animals. The policy applies to:
•
  R
esearch that contributes significantly to patient 
welfare.
•
  W
ork specifically mandated by regulatory agencies to 
ensure patient safety or effectiveness.
Any animal-related research or testing is first externally 
approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. We comply with the U.S. Animal Welfare Act and other relevant standards and requirements set by the National Academy of Sciences' Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.
We are committed to a respectful, humane approach and 
take the welfare of animals used in research seriously. Our work with scientists, veterinary surgeons, and other experts helps refine our methods, always aiming to alleviate or minimize harm and distress.PATIENT SAFETY AND PRODUCT QUALITY
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
75 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexAlternatives to animal-related research
Where possible, we reduce the use of animals and 
replace animal-related research with other methods, including:
•
  Submit
ting research findings to inform the work of the 
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
on a standard for the testing of human skin cell-based irritation without the use of animals.
•
  Investing in our C
orporate Research Group’s 
fundamental modeling work to potentially reduce the number of animals used in future research.
Clinical trials
As a key part of the product development process,  we conduct clinical trials to provide the necessary evidence on product and therapy safety and effectiveness. We also conduct clinical trials to support market access activities after products are launched. More than 2,000 employees in our Clinical Research  and Medical Science functions collaborate to ensure  the trials are robustly designed and efficiently  conducted in accordance with appropriate regulations and ethical practices. 
Increasing diversity in clinical trials is a critical element 
of working within the current regulatory and social landscape to reduce health inequities and improve outcomes for a broader, more inclusive patient population. We are committed to developing sustainable solutions that overcome barriers to achieving diverse representation across our clinical trials. This effort includes: 
•
  Assessing r
ace and gender representation  
across indications. 
•
  S
tandardizing collection of demographics  
across Medtronic.
•
  Establishing an enr
ollment target methodology  
for targeted indications.
•
  Identifying oppor
tunities to increase access to 
underrepresented patient populations.
•
  Developing pr
ocesses and tools to reduce specific 
health equity gaps.
Amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we continue 
to implement new approaches to increase both patient engagement and efficiency in clinical trials. This includes continued deployment of remote technologies, as well as the use of apps and wearable devices for direct-to-patient data collection.
Our Code of Conduct, Global Business Conduct 
Standards Policy, and strict data privacy standards  guide our approach to clinical trials. We adhere to all relevant laws and regulations, including the E.U. Medical Device Regulation and ISO 14155:2020 standard for clinical research.Collaboration, engagement, and data sharing
The advancement of medical research depends upon transparent data sharing and collaboration. We continue to share knowledge by:
•
  Disclosing informa
tion on applicable trials to the 
U.S. Clinical Trials Registry — a database of more than 
422,000 research studies. 
•
 P
ublishing trial findings in peer-reviewed journals. 
•
  C
ollaborating with research scientists, institutions, and 
physicians to advance our clinical trials practice. 
•
  C
ontributing to the advancement of clinical 
standards by working with the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation, the Clinical Trials Transformation Initiative, the Medical Device Innovation Consortium, the National Evaluation System for Health Technology Coordinating  Center, and the Digital Health Measurement Collaborative Community.
•
  P
articipating in the MedTech Color Collaborative as we 
advance patient diversity in clinical trials at Medtronic.PATIENT SAFETY AND PRODUCT QUALITY
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
76 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexProduct use and performance
Once we launch a product, we monitor its use and 
performance to measure and improve safety and inform future designs.
Post-market surveillance
Through our post-market surveillance process, we  collect patient outcome data in partnership with hospitals, physicians, clinics, governments, and third parties. We also gather data from:
•
  P
ost-market clinical studies on specific products  
and therapies.
•
  Customer feedback analyzed via our global complaint 
handling system — now consolida
ted into a single 
companywide organization to improve our ability to quickly detect and resolve product performance issues.
We also collect post-market surveillance data via an extensive internal Product Surveillance Registry that captures patients’ real-world experiences and outcomes with many of our products. Data from the registry is increasingly used to generate evidence to ensure continued market access through routine reporting shared with global regulators. We also use this valuable data to engage with payers and other stakeholders on maintaining access to critical products and therapies for the patients we serve.
We develop standardized models to measure and 
improve patient safety and clinical outcomes. In  addition, we regularly engage the U.S. FDA and other regulators to make sure we meet their post-market surveillance expectations.Caring for patients
We work to improve the patient experience through many avenues, including how patients interact with our products and the outcomes they experience.
Complaint rates are an important indicator of patient 
experience and product quality and we continuously strive to reduce this rate. Previously, our efforts resulted in a more than 40% decline in customer-reported complaints for our pacemaker/defibrillator devices  and lead systems. 
To further enhance product quality and patient 
experience, we are targeting a 10% reduction in aggregate product complaint rate by FY25, compared with a FY20 baseline, for key product families.
1 As of 
FY22, we are on track to achieve a 10% aggregate reduction by FY25.
Product-related actions
The safety and well-being of patients is our paramount concern. Any time product performance is called into question, we act swiftly to engage in transparent communications, reduce risk, and ensure optimal patient management.
We take prompt action whenever we are alerted to 
regulatory or field-safety issues with a Medtronic product. Our corrective actions include voluntary product recalls when needed. We examine underlying issues and root causes and work to resolve them to avoid recurrence.
Our Design Quality Center of Expertise supports our 
operating units in implementing quality and reliability improvements via our product-development process, including incorporating lessons learned from post-PATIENT SAFETY AND PRODUCT QUALITY
U.S. FDA RECALLS
FY20 FY21 FY22
FDA Class I recalls 6 10 9
FDA Class II recalls 25†46†46
Annual recall ratio normalized by revenue (FDA Class I and II recalls 
per $1 billion in revenue)1.07†1.86†1.74
†  The data has been recast from our 2021 Integrated Performance Report due to recalls that occurred in a select fiscal year but were not confirmed until after the report  
was published.
U.S. FDA WARNING LETTERS
FY20 FY21 FY22
Open FDA warning letters 4 1 2 
Open FDA warning letters resolved during the year 3 0 0 
market surveillance. Our Risk Management Center of 
Expertise provides oversight of the post-market safety process, ensuring consistency of decision-making across Medtronic.
In FY22, nine Medtronic products were subject to 
voluntary Class I recalls. This represents 0.005% of product models offered by Medtronic in FY22. Our ratio of recalls classified by FDA as either Class I or II per  $1 billion in revenue declined to 1.74 in FY22 compared with 1.86 in FY21.
With each recall, we focus on correcting safety issues but 
also conduct rigorous root-cause investigations focused on the product and our processes. More detail on recalls is available on the FDA List of Device Recalls.
Further detail on calendar-year recalls are provided in 
our ESG disclosure index.
1  The goal covers the following products: Transcatheter Aortic valves and delivery 
systems, Venous Closure Systems, Spinal Cord Stimulation systems, Mazor Robot, Signia
TM handles, Puritan BennettTM 980 ventilator and Diabetes NGP pumps, 
and sensors. We are focusing on these product families because they represent strategic opportunities to positively influence complaint rate and patient experience through new product introductions and post-release changes. We continuously evaluate opportunities to reduce complaints and improve the patient experience. As opportunities are identified we may expand the scope of this commitment in future years. This target is an aggregate percent reduction from FY20 to FY25. Therefore, annual progress toward this target prior to FY25 does not represent achieving or missing the target.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
77 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexData privacy 
and securitySOCIAL IMPACT
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
78 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
Adding business value
By investing in information security, product security, and data privacy,  
we comply with regulations, build investor confidence, retain customer  trust, and respect patients.Today, more patients and providers are turning to connected 
devices than ever before. And we’ve seen an unprecedented volume and scale of ransomware attacks and vulnerability disclosures across many sectors over the past year. It’s critically important that we safeguard information, assets, and systems  in the ever-evolving data and cybersecurity landscape.
Our programs are designed to protect data and systems, 
comply with global regulations, and maintain the safety and privacy of the patients who use our products.Privacy and security approach
Our Global Cybersecurity program operates under 
strong governance, risk, and compliance processes that are aligned with the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST), the ISO/IEC 27001 standard, and other relevant international security standards. The Audit Committee of the Medtronic board of directors has oversight of cybersecurity risk within our organization and our companywide security policies, standards, and procedures ensure consistency across our organization. We continuously scan our operational environment for cyber risks and vulnerabilities, and we also assess the risks of third-party partners, projects, and initiatives. We secure information, including intellectual property and personal data, with a suite of physical, technical, and administrative controls.
To advance data security practices, we collaborate with 
third-party organizations such as the Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center (H-ISAC), AdvaMed, and the European Union Agency for Cybersecurity. We also contribute to global product security and cybersecurity standards in collaboration with the U.S. FDA and other regulatory advocacy groups. We have processes in place for coordinated disclosure of potential security vulnerabilities when they are identified by third parties, and for notification or other remediation regarding vulnerabilities when necessary.
Our data privacy policies, standards, and procedures 
define our principles and approach for stewardship of personal data. They are aligned to common and evolving privacy principles derived from privacy laws such as HIPAA and the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This approach provides a high level of data protection for our patients, participants in clinical trials, customers, employees, vendors, and partners. We also meet local data privacy requirements where those are stricter than our Medtronic-wide standards.
As with any company, Medtronic employees and 
contingent workers play a crucial role in safeguarding data. We train all employees and contingent workers on security and privacy so they understand how to identify, protect, and preserve sensitive data and prevent cyber intrusions. We continue to expand and improve our global training programs to raise employee awareness of privacy and security obligations. Our annual training includes:
•
 A
wareness around International Privacy Day.
•
  P
rivacy and security training for global employees and 
contingent workers.
•
  U
.S. privacy law training for U.S. employees,  
including supplemental California Consumer Privacy 
Act training.
•
  Gener
al Data Protection Regulation training for select 
global corporate employees, as well as noncorporate E.U. employees.
•
  China privacy law tr
aining for Medtronic employees in 
China.
•
  R
egion-specific privacy training for Medtronic 
employees in Latin America. 
•
  P
rivacy by Design training for employees in key global 
functions, such as Legal and IT, as well as the vast majority of E.U. employees.Additionally, we expect our vendors to adhere to our data privacy and security standards, and we evaluate these risks as part of our vendor assessment process. When we acquire a company, we conduct privacy and security due diligence and implement an integration plan that includes training as well as policy and procedure standardization. 
With regard to data breach reporting, Medtronic  
adheres to state, federal, and, where applicable, international data breach notification requirements. As an example, in accordance with HIPAA-related data breach requirements, Medtronic self-reports incidents involving loss of, or inappropriate access to, patient information to the Office for Civil Rights of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Looking ahead, we are focused on reducing risks related 
to data security, product security, and privacy by raising the ’data and security intelligence’ of employees and continuously improving:
•
  P
rocesses and technology for threat detection and 
response.
•
  P
rocesses and technology for privacy risk assessments 
and data subject request execution.
•
  Guidelines and tr
aining on data security, product 
security, and privacy.
For more information on product security, see  
Patient safety and product quality.DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
79 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index$13.5B
spent with more than 
63,800  
partners across 
130 
countriesSupply chain 
responsibilitySOCIAL IMPACT
Adding business value
In the past year, Medtronic 
therapies improved the lives of  76 million people. Responsibly managing our global supply  chain makes that possible.  By continuously improving our supply chain resiliency and engaging with a diverse pool  of innovative partners, we are better able to create and deliver high-quality, life-improving products and services while  also minimizing disruptions  and quality issues.Our ability to boldly tackle the most 
challenging health problems facing humanity depends on a responsible, resilient supply chain. By enforcing  strong policies, monitoring and mitigating risk, performing supplier due diligence, and disclosing and reporting appropriate matters, we ensure that our innovative technologies are manufactured and delivered responsibly and disruptions are managed effectively. In addition to streamlining our supply chain operationally, we also reinforce human rights, environmental stewardship,  and ethical behavior. 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
80 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexSustainability and responsibility 
As a global healthcare technology leader, we attract and 
cultivate relationships with responsible, reliable suppliers who enable our delivery of high-quality products to customers and patients. We procure materials and services from more than 63,800 partners across 130 countries, spending more than $13.5 billion with suppliers globally in FY22. Our long-standing commitment to sustainable and socially responsible supply management practices came to the forefront in the face of this year’s global challenges. Our commitment to excellence and persistent work with suppliers allowed us to remain strong and manage disruption amid the ongoing pandemic; global raw material constraints in key commodities, including semiconductors, resins, and metals; labor and energy shortages; rising inflation; and the war in Ukraine.
For years, our Global Supply Management team has 
developed relationships with suppliers, instilling our high standards for excellence and good citizenship. This team oversees our Responsible Supply Management program, which integrates responsible business practices into processes such as supplier selection and supplier performance management.
Our suppliers understand that Medtronic expects them 
to respect human rights, labor standards, business ethics, and the environment. Formal company policies are foundational to their understanding; they include:
•
  Global Supplier S
tandards — describes the minimum 
social, ethical, and environmental requirements and 
expectations for our suppliers.
•
  Global Human Rights and Labor S
tandards Policy 
— guides how we should conduct business to demonstrate respect for internationally recognized human rights and the dignity of all people.•  Global Anti-Human Trafficking and Forced 
Labor Policy — outlines our commitment to a work environment free from human trafficking, slavery, unlawful child labor, and forced labor of any kind.
•
  C
ode of Conduct — states our companywide standard 
for behavior and applies to employees, officers, directors, and anyone conducting business on our behalf, including contractors, consultants,  and distributors.
Our Responsible Supply Management program aligns with international standards and guidelines, including those from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
Training and collaboration
To ensure a responsible supply chain, we provide comprehensive Responsible Supply Management training for employees in our procurement, sourcing, and supplier quality groups. Trainings focus on environmental and social topics such as greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions, labor conditions, human rights, human trafficking, and modern slavery. In FY22, more than 300 employees participated in our Responsible Supply Management training program, bringing the  total number of employees trained since FY21 to  more than 1,300.
We expect suppliers to implement their own human 
rights and labor standards and also comply with our Global Supplier Standards, which are included in supplier agreements and purchase order terms and conditions. All new suppliers must agree to these standards before working with us.SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY
SUPPLY CHAIN SPEND† 
($ million)
FY20 FY21 FY22
Australia $67.3 $54.1 $63.3
Canada $126.8 $118.9 $121.0 
China $465.7 $596.5 $556.4
France $188.0 $204.7 $171.1
Germany $285.5 $270.7 $290.9
Ireland $272.9 $408.2 $328.3
Israel $65.9 $133.9 $185.4 
Japan $176.7 $178.8 $231.0
Mexico $156.2 $191.1 $187.3 
Netherlands $252.8 $266.2 $279.9 
Singapore $122.2 $176.0 $161.5 
Switzerland $251.5 $114.3 $113.2 
United States $8,754.8 $8,040.4 $8,863.0 
Total for locations listed $11,186.3 $10,753.8 $11,552.3 
Total spend $12,835.6 $12,536.9 $13,527.6 
† Totals may not add up due to rounding.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
81 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexSuppliers that do not fully comply with our Global 
Supplier Standards must undergo additional training. During FY22, we held 26 one-on-one training  sessions on our standards and expectations. These suppliers also received sample policies to integrate  into their operations.
To enhance supplier environmental sustainability, in 
FY22, we joined CDP Supply Chain, a consortium of global companies working to help 40,000 suppliers quantify their GHG emissions and other components of their environmental footprint. Our Responsible Supply Management and Environmental, Health, and Safety functions collaborate in the CDP Supply Chain membership, which will help us better understand our Scope 3 emissions and inform the development of science-based targets. This membership will also  help our suppliers identify climate risks and reduce  their environmental impact. We launched our CDP Supply Chain training program in FY22 and invited  101 suppliers to participate in the first year. As part of  the launch, we provided training to 46 suppliers and  21 category managers. Learn more about our work  with CDP in Reducing our environmental footprint.
We collaborate with peers on issues that affect our 
industry, which in turn help us learn and benchmark our progress. Our collaboration in FY22 included engagements with the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council and the Conference Board’s Responsible Sourcing Council. We also participated in MedTech Europe working groups to discuss emerging human rights and environmental due-diligence laws.Monitoring compliance and 
performance
Setting strong standards is a good start, but  
meaningful monitoring and enforcement is necessary  for our approach to be effective. Our Supplier Sustainability Assessment program monitors suppliers’ compliance and performance against our standards, prioritizing suppliers where we have the highest spend and those deemed to be highest risk. To ensure suppliers’ participation, we expanded this program in FY22 to involve our category managers in the assessment process.
In FY21, we set a FY26
1 target to assess the sustainability 
performance of suppliers representing at least 80% 
of our annual managed spend. In FY22, we exceeded previous years by completing sustainability assessments of 186 suppliers. This brings our total assessments of suppliers to 66% of our annual managed spend, keeping us on track to achieve our FY26 goal.
Using self-assessment surveys and on-site audits, 
we determine supplier risk in four areas: labor and human rights; environment; ethics; and sustainable procurement. Our risk determination dictates the frequency of a supplier’s self-assessment. Low-risk suppliers complete assessments every three years,  while medium- and high-risk suppliers complete assessments every two years and annually, respectively. We issue corrective action requests to all suppliers identified as a medium- or high-risk, and we expect them to promptly address high-priority incidents of noncompliance. We also conduct on-site workplace conditions inspections and audit the business practices of the majority of high-risk suppliers.SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY
1  Managed spend, also known as addressable spend, is the spend that Medtronic 
actively manages through a category management process.2  The risk score yielded by the algorithm is used to identify suppliers that require escalation to other sustainability programs.RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY MANAGEMENT FROM THE BOTTOM UPNUMBER OF SUPPLIERS COMPLETING SELF-ASSESSMENTS
FY20 FY21 FY22
170 128 186
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
82 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index
Audits
Highest-risk 
suppliers are subject  
to on-site workplace  
conditions audits
Sustainability  
performance score
Third-party assessment of Medtronic’s 
highest-risk and highest-spend suppliers
Supplier risk mapping
An algorithm produces inherent risk score 
across all of Medtronic’s Tier 1 suppliers2In FY22, we piloted a new Supplier Risk Mapping tool 
to analyze suppliers for risks related to their geographic location and industry, taking into consideration the amount we spend with them annually. This new tool incorporates a methodology for systematic analysis of all our Tier 1 suppliers and helps prioritize which suppliers should undergo third-party assessments and audits. During the pilot phase, we evaluated and assigned inherent risk scores to 6,000 of our Tier 1 suppliers. 
Supplier audits
In FY22, we worked with a third party to conduct on-site audits of six suppliers and three follow-up audits. Because COVID-19 limited the number of audits we could perform, we prioritized audits of suppliers that had received high-risk scores on their online assessment surveys. The scope of these audits included labor, wages, and hours; health and safety; management systems; environment; and business practices.
For certain suppliers that received a high-risk score from 
their online assessment, we accepted another third-party provider’s audit report as an alternative to our own to help reduce supplier auditing fatigue.
We also encourage our suppliers to report publicly 
on their environmental and social performance. Every two years, we assess the sustainability reporting of our top suppliers by spend. In FY21, we assessed the top 200 suppliers and confirmed that 37% published sustainability reports, 8% had sustainability goals published online, and 26% had information relating to sustainability on their website. In total, seven suppliers published inaugural sustainability reports, two suppliers shared new goals, and five suppliers shared new information on sustainability in the past year.Conflict minerals
Some of our products contain tin, tungsten, tantalum, or gold. In the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries, mining and processing of these metals have been linked to funding armed conflict.  To promote the use of responsibly sourced minerals,  we continue to:
•
  Suppor
t the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, which  
requires companies to disclose the use of any  
such conflict minerals.
•
  R
equire suppliers to comply with the law and  
uphold responsible sourcing practices.
•
  R
eference conflict minerals in supplier agreements 
and purchase orders.
•
  P
articipate as a member of the Responsible  
Minerals Initiative.
•
  F
ollow the Organization for Economic Cooperation 
and Development (OECD) guidance on conflict minerals — including surveying suppliers to collect data on smelters in their supply chains.
We report our supplier survey results to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission annually in a dedicated Conflict Minerals Report. For calendar year (CY) 2021, 56 of our suppliers reported red-flag smelters or refineries in their supply chain, an increase of 125% compared with CY20. This increase occurred because a single, large gold refiner was added to the red-flag category in CY21. In such instances, we request that the supplier work to eliminate red-flag smelters from their supply chain.
More information on our approach is available in our 
Conflict Minerals Policy.SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
83 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexSupplier quality management
Because suppliers are our essential partners, we clearly 
communicate our quality expectations and specifications and provide support through our Supplier Quality Excellence Manual.
In addition, we help suppliers meet our stringent 
standards through:
•
  C
ontinuous improvement programs, facilitated on-site 
at supplier manufacturing locations.
•
  C
ollaboration with suppliers to improve the design, 
reliability, and manufacturability of components 
and products.
Supplier diversity
Our growing base of high-quality, diverse-owned suppliers strengthens our ability to deliver on our Mission to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend life. We gain a competitive advantage through the different perspectives and innovations that diverse-owned suppliers provide. Improving our supplier diversity performance also stimulates long-term economic benefits; creates jobs and opportunities for communities; and builds more innovative, resilient, and agile supply chains. To further our commitment, in FY22 we stated our ambition to join the Billion Dollar Roundtable and have established a roadmap to achieve this goal. 
Our Supplier Diversity program aligns with the 
companywide approach to inclusion, diversity, and equity (ID&E) and Global Supply Management. Our VP , chief inclusion and diversity officer (CIDO) serves on the Supplier Diversity Steering Committee, which, together with our Supplier Diversity and Global Supply Management leaders, governs our Supplier Diversity program, strategy, and goals. The CIDO highlights our supplier diversity performance as part of the Quarterly Diversity Report to our CEO and executive leadership.  In addition, our chief procurement officer leads visibility of the initiative within the Global Operations and  Supply Chain organization. 
The Supplier Advisory Board (SAB), composed of our 
strategic suppliers, is instrumental to the success of the Supplier Diversity program. The 12-member SAB includes two diverse-owned suppliers who, along with fellow members, inform our global sourcing strategy  and our approach to supplier partnerships. 
In FY22, we directed $830 million to companies owned 
by people from diverse backgrounds. When combined with nondiverse small businesses, this figure reaches $2.7 billion, approximately 36% of our total U.S.  supplier spend. Medtronic operating units drive our  performance and are expected to support diverse-owned businesses, which include those owned by women, people from ethnically diverse groups, people with disabilities, LGBTQ+ individuals, veterans, and those located in historically underutilized or disadvantaged business zones.
In FY22, we surpassed our annual goals to increase 
spending with diverse-owned suppliers by a minimum of 5% year over year, and to increase, year over year, the percentage of Medtronic requests for proposal that include a diverse-owned supplier, which ensures inclusion across the majority of sourcing events. Through these strategies, in FY22, we increased spend with diverse-owned firms by 29% compared with  the previous year. 
SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY
$830M
directed to companies owned by  
people from diverse backgrounds in 
FY22. When combined with nondiverse 
small businesses, this figure reaches  
$2.7 billion, approximately 36% of  
our total U.S. supplier spend.
5th
DiversityInc. ranked 
Medtronic 5th on its list 
of 2022 Top Companies 
for Supplier Diversity 
and 11th among the 
overall 2022 Top 
Companies for ESG. 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
84 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexBecause ID&E is essential to our ongoing innovation, 
we work hard to increase supplier diversity globally. We expanded our International Supplier Diversity program in FY21, with a focus on engaging women-owned businesses in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and Latin America. In FY22, supplier diversity leadership from the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region drove the adoption of goals to grow diverse spend within the region and ensure the inclusion of diverse-owned suppliers in new bid opportunities. These efforts led to new partners being added to our supply chain, including:
•
  Adwise Iletisim
 — a marketing communications agency 
in Turkey and a certified Women Business Enterprise 
that provides digital marketing services to Medtronic. 
•
  Masoom 
Training Solutions — a human resources 
training company and a certified Black Economic Empowerment and Women Business Enterprise that provides training for Medtronic in South Africa.
During our inaugural Medtronic Supplier Diversity Conference, held virtually in November 2021, more  than 200 attendees joined for two days of knowledge sharing, training, and business networking. The event culminated in approximately 150 one-on-one sessions between diverse-owned suppliers and Medtronic sourcing managers. 
In FY22, we also launched an Early Payment Program  
for Diverse Suppliers in partnership with a global provider of working capital solutions. This offering helped ease cash-flow pressures by accelerating more than $19 million in payments to over 540 participating diverse-owned suppliers within the first six months of  the program. SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY
U.S. DIVERSE SUPPLY CHAIN SPEND 
($ million by category)
FY20 FY21 FY22
$ U.S.  
spend% U.S.  
spend$ U.S.  
spend% U.S.  
spend$ U.S.  
spend% U.S.  
spend
Small business 
enterprise$1,896 26.2% $1,776 27.2% $1,706 23.0%
Veteran-owned business enterprise$113 1.6% $133 2.0% $136 1.8% 
Minority-owned business enterprise $273 3.8% $265 4.1% $320 4.6%
Women-owned business enterprise$172 2.4% $172 2.6% $498 7.2%
Impact of diverse-owned firms
LGBTQ+-owned  Reason Research provides the "voice of the customer” to help us better 
understand the needs of
 patients and physicians so we can more quickly make our technologies 
accessible. Reason Research also amplifies diverse voices in its own operations by participating 
in the Diversity Alliance for Science, an organization that helps small and/or diverse businesses drive inclusive procurement practices in the life science and healthcare industries.
“Supplier diversity signals that companies 
aren’t just talking about inclusion, they’re 
doing it beyond their own walls.”
Gary White 
CEO, Reason Research
$2.7B
purchased from small and  
diverse-owned businesses
$4.9B
in economic production activity
$1.8B
in wages and benefits through  
supported jobs
29 ,303
small and diverse supplier jobs  
supported in the United StatesSUPPLIER DIVERSITY  
ECONOMIC IMPACT
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
85 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexGovernance and 
accountability
We uphold robust corporate governance practices and instill principles 
of ethical behavior across our business as essential drivers of Medtronic’s financial success and responsible growth. Our uncompromising standard of accountability sets the foundation for investors’ confidence and underpins our stakeholder engagements.
FY22 governance and accountability highlights  87
Corporate governance  88 
 
Ethical business conduct  
91 
 
Ethics in sales and mark
eting  95 
 
Our economic impact  
98
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 86 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact ESG disclosure index
 Governance and accountability
FY22 highlightsGOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY
30 %
of board members were women,  
and following the June 27, 2022 
appointment of Lidia Fonseca as  a new director, 36% of board  members are women
20 %
of board members were from  ethnically diverse backgrounds,  
and following the June 27, 2022 appointment of Lidia Fonseca as  a new director, 27% of board members  are from ethnically diverse backgrounds ~100 %
nearly all U.S. employees  
certified as having read and  
understood our Code of Conduct
$31.7B 
revenue generated and 92% of free  
cash flow returned to shareholders
$1.7B1
total strategic investment and  
acquisition spend
1      Includes acquisitions,  additions to property, plant and equipment, 
and net purchases of investments. 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
87 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexOUR BOARD’S SIX STANDING COMMITTEES
each composed of independent directorsAudit
Nominating 
and Corporate 
GovernanceCompensation
QualityFinance and 
Financial Risk
Science and 
TechnologyCorporate governance
Our principled approach to 
corporate governance is defined through clear policies and procedures. Independent oversight of the company strengthens our financial health and ethical accountability and enables us to fulfill our Mission.
Adding business value
Strong corporate governance upholds our 
company values, safeguards us against risks, and maintains our stakeholders’ trust — which is essential to the continuing success of our business. GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
88 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexCORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board of directors 
We are governed by a board that comprises nine 
independent directors and our CEO, Geoff Martha,  during FY22. Martha serves as Chairman of the Board,  and Craig Arnold serves as lead independent director.
Our board has six standing committees, each composed  
of independent directors. The committees are:
•
 Audit
•
 C
ompensation
•
 F
inance and Financial Risk
•
 Nomina
ting and Corporate Governance
•
 Quality
•
 Science 
and Technology
Our board members have diverse experience, skills,  
and backgrounds essential to understanding and responding to stakeholder needs and enhancing the  quality of discussions and decisions. At the end of FY22, 30% of our board members were women, and 20% of members were from ethnically diverse backgrounds.  With the addition of new director Lidia Fonseca in early FY23, 36% of board members are women and 27% are  from ethnically diverse backgrounds.
When evaluating director candidates, we consider a  
variety of factors, including diversity of skills, experience, and community involvement. Our Board Diversity Policy  and Principles of Corporate Governance outline the principles and processes through which the Nominating  and Corporate Governance Committee assesses the appropriate mix of board diversity and evaluates  candidates for directorship.The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee also oversees our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance. More detailed information on our  ESG governance is shared in ESG strategy.
Enterprise risk and continuity management
Unexpected events, such as COVID-19, political turmoil, extreme weather, and civil unrest can disrupt our business and prevent us from serving those who need our products and therapies. Our Enterprise Risk & Continuity team helps us remain resilient in the face of uncertainty.
We stay nimble and prepared through three key programs:
•
  Enterprise risk management (ERM)
 — Our overarching 
approach helps ensure risk management activities are 
consistent across Medtronic. In FY22, we continued to embed our ERM framework within our strategic planning and other core business processes and functions to continue to sharpen our focus on risk mitigation.
•
  Business continuity management
 — We prioritize critical 
products and services based on patient impact and our strategic priorities. End-to-end mapping of our value stream enables us to quickly identify and effectively manage key operational risks, with a strong focus on resiliency.
•
  Crisis management (CM)
 — The CM team prioritizes and 
coordinates our response, including resource allocation, to crises that affect our people, operations, and/or reputation. The executive committee sponsors the CM program, with more support provided from the Medtronic Global Command Center and leadership.
Read more about the philanthropic support provided by Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation during global crises and natural disasters.CRISIS MANAGEMENT PROCESS
Corporate
Corporate functions and business groups  
provide strategic guidance and coordinated 
support to countries and sites.
Regional
Regional crisis action teams provide  
consistent and timely corporate support  
during crisis events.
Local/site
Teams provide coordinated response  
for events impacting an area of  
significance to Medtronic.Monitor
Notify
Lessons learnedManage eventActivate
Deactivate and hand offCrisis management teams Crisis management structure
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
89 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexCORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Public policy
We believe that through our public policy efforts, we can 
help produce long-term societal benefits by improving healthcare access, quality, efficiency, and outcomes for all patients. 
Our Government Affairs, Health Economics, Policy and 
Reimbursement, and Regulatory Affairs teams work with governments, industry peers, and other stakeholders to:
•
 R
ealize the potential of digital health technology.
•
 Enable technology innova
tions.
•
 F
acilitate access to lifesaving therapies and devices.
•
  Gener
ate economic value for healthcare system 
stakeholders.
•
 P
romote outcome-driven and value-based healthcare.
•
  Harmonize and coor
dinate international regulatory 
requirements.
Digital health remains among our top public-policy 
priorities. We are helping to shape the digital health policy landscape on issues that include device security, data privacy and security, access to data for research  and development, product regulatory issues, and coverage and reimbursement.
We also seek to inform public policies aimed at 
narrowing disparities in healthcare access and promoting equitable patient care. For example, we provide resources and tools that help emergency medical service personnel more quickly and effectively assess and treat patients suffering an acute stroke. Medtronic makes contributions to candidates for  federal office that align with our company values,  and we comply with all relevant laws regarding  political contribution disclosures. Read more about  our Political Contribution Policy.
Collaborations
Our Mission inspires Medtronic to partner with others to expand equitable access to quality, affordable healthcare.
Our partners in these efforts span patients, physicians, 
treatment facilities, health system administrators, government officials, public policymakers, nonprofits, nongovernmental organizations, and advocacy groups. Like us, they have a direct interest in improving healthcare and overcoming industry challenges.
A growing number of nations are implementing universal 
health coverage (UHC) to provide everyone access to health services without risk of financial ruin. According to the World Health Organization, countries with UHC have less poverty and stronger economic development, as well as improved health indicators.
1
Medtronic is well-positioned to support governments as they work toward UHC, and we seek broader ways to contribute to this progress. For example, Medtronic LABS is part of the UHC2030 Private Sector Constituency and served on the UHC2030 Steering Committee in FY22. Also, our CEO, Geoff Martha, is a co-chair of the B20 Health & Life Sciences Task Force within the G20 forum for international economic cooperation.We continue to promote value-based healthcare conversations in policy discussions, including meetings of G20 health officials. We also promote policies to increase access to care and innovation, including the application of digital technology to improve diagnosis, therapy, and care management.
We also participate in business and MedTech industry 
trade organizations working to advance global health. We share expertise and advocate for a more sustainable healthcare model through forums in the United States and elsewhere. This includes serving on the boards of industry organizations such as AdvaMed, APACMed,  and MedTech Europe.
1        Arguing for Universal Health Coverage Report, The World Health Organization,  
page 10.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
90 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexEthical business 
conduct
Our commitment to “Delivering 
Results The Right Way” includes empowering our employees to think critically and equipping them with the insights and support they need  to make ethical decisions.
Adding business value
Our lasting success relies on maintaining strong 
trust among those with whom we work and the patients benefitting from our products and therapies. By ensuring our people act with integrity, we safeguard our reputation, protect the best interests of patients, and minimize our exposure to risks.GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY
99% 
of employees received 
Code of Conduct 
training in FY22
~100% 
nearly all U.S. employees 
certified as having read and 
understood the Code of 
Conduct in FY22
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
91 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT
Building an ethical culture
Our Office of Ethics & Compliance (OEC) is responsible 
for ethics policies and programs. The OEC provides an annual ethics report for the board of directors, supplemented by quarterly briefings for the board’s Audit Committee. Our chief ethics and compliance officer also has an independent reporting line directly  to the Audit Committee.
In addition, the OEC processes and thoroughly 
investigates reported concerns of alleged misconduct. As part of the process, a disciplinary action committee reviews the details to help ensure fair and equitable treatment of employees. The committee includes representatives from the OEC, HR, employee relations, and business leaders.
Code of Conduct and Business 
Standards
We articulate our expectations for ethical behavior 
through policies and principles that are accessible, explicit, and relevant to employees’ day-to-day work.  Our Code of Conduct anchors this approach. To ensure every employee understands and is accountable for upholding our Code, we:
•
  P
rovide the Code in 22 languages so that 99% of 
employees can read it in their first language.
•
  Deliver multilingual C
ode training for new employees 
and those joining Medtronic through acquisitions.
•
  R
etrain employees in multiple languages on the 
Code annually and require everyone at Medtronic — 
including our board — to certify their understanding  of its contents.We regularly refresh the training on our Code to stay current with emerging issues. In FY22, our updates included making the training more interactive and incorporating new ethical conduct scenarios. FY22 trainings also reinforced our expectation and support for employees to freely speak up about ethical concerns without fear of retaliation. Additional core training modules include conflicts of interest, anti-harassment, fair competition, and insider trading.
Our Global Business Conduct Standards Policy governs 
how employees interact with healthcare professionals and other stakeholders who are able to influence purchasing decisions. The policy aligns with industry best practices and the high ethical standards established by AdvaMed, including its recently updated Code of Ethics; MedTech Europe; and APACMed, the leading global medical device trade associations. We also embed an ethics and compliance review into our due diligence and integration processes for all mergers and acquisitions.
99 %
of employees received 
Code of Conduct 
training in FY22ENSURING COMPLIANCE WITH OUR CODE OF CONDUCT
FY20 FY21 FY22
Employees receiving Code of Conduct training and certification 90% 69%†99%
Employees terminated for ethical and compliance-related infractions‡194 270 201
†  In-person trainings at manufacturing facilities were suspended in FY20 and FY21 due to COVID-19 restrictions, leading to a decrease in the number of employees who 
completed training.
‡ Based on calendar years 2019, 2020, and 2021.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
92 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexExcellence in ethical practices
Each year, our Compass Awards honor a select group of employees who exemplify the Medtronic 
Mission through actions that demonstrate high integrity and who champion our Code of Conduct.  In FY22, a panel of leaders and peers from across Medtronic evaluated numerous nominations, from which they selected three individuals and two teams to receive our Compass Award.
The recipients included eight members of our Diabetes Operating Unit, who were recognized  
for their efforts to safeguard patient privacy and consent as the team rolled out marketing information for a new project. Team members balanced the need to move quickly and  decisively with a staunch commitment to putting the interests of our patients first.ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT
Employee ethics
Our Medtronic Mindset of “Delivering Results the 
Right Way” is a fundamental element of our ethics communications. We continuously expand and improve our ethics touch points and learning opportunities to strengthen employees’ understanding and adherence.
In FY22, we introduced a new approach that ingrains 
ethics conversations into regular team meetings at our global manufacturing facilities. At least monthly, supervisors lead a discussion on a select aspect of ethical behavior. Supervisors can use one of our prepared discussion guides or tailor their conversations to address team-specific issues and interests. We are averaging more than 1,000 ethics conversations a month since this practice began in February 2022.We also build awareness and engagement on ethics through initiatives such as:
•
  Ethics and Integrity 
Week — our annual event featuring 
educational activities and resources for employees 
companywide. A key theme for FY22 was enhancing trust across our interactions with patients, customers, employees, and healthcare professionals.
•
  Ethics Cir
cles — a year-round series that brings small 
groups of employees together to discuss hypothetical scenarios, as well as their personal experiences. FY22 topics included ethical requirements in foreign business practices, sexual harassment, and pressure to perform.To better understand employees’ perspectives on ethics, we include targeted questions in our annual Organizational Health Survey. In FY22, 86% of survey respondents gave a positive rating for Medtronic’s ethical culture — our highest-ever score in this category.
In addition, we periodically conduct a dedicated all-
employee ethics survey to gauge our progress toward setting an unsurpassed standard for integrity. Our last ethics survey, conducted in FY20, identified four opportunity areas in which we can enhance our ethical culture: tone at the top; comfort speaking up; openness of communication; and trust and team cohesion. Our CEO appointed two members of the executive committee to address this feedback, resulting in new tools, resources, and approaches. We will reevaluate our performance in FY23. 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
93 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT
Risk assessment and monitoring
While we design our communication and training to 
prevent unethical situations from occurring, even a comprehensive program cannot eliminate all risk of unethical behavior. Therefore, we proactively assess our risks and monitor our activities and processes. When we uncover an issue, we investigate and remediate through a formal, consistent, and fair review process. Our annual risk-assessment process includes a rigorous review of internal and external data and trends. Components of this review include regulatory enforcement actions, hotline reporting, investigations, internal auditing, and data analyses to identify high-risk areas for investigation and remediation. We conduct root-cause analyses on confirmed issues and take appropriate corrective action to prevent recurrences.
Encouraging a speak up culture
When employees need ethical guidance or have concerns about potential violations, we strongly encourage them to speak up, even anonymously  if they choose, through one of the following channels:
•
 T
heir manager
•
 Human R
esources
•
 L
egal or Compliance representatives
•
  T
he board of directors’ email inbox, which is 
monitored by staff who bring pertinent matters to  
the board’s attention
•
 V
oice Your Concern Line
•
  Exit interviews,
 in which departing employees are 
invited to share ethical concernsOur chief counsel of global compliance investigations is responsible for supporting these processes across Medtronic. Partnering with our colleagues in Employee Relations, we also maintain an Organizational Justice program to enhance consistency in our internal processes around alleged misconduct, including how we remediate misconduct globally. Our anonymity rate is below external benchmarks and is trending down over time, evidencing a positive “speak up” culture.
Employees globally can access our Voice Your Concern 
Line at any time to report potential ethics issues or seek guidance, and we updated our reporting portal to simplify access in local languages. Of the concerns received in FY22, 87% were deemed mild risk, 12% were moderate risk, and 1% were elevated risk. The most common inquiries pertained to workplace misconduct (63%), followed by general questions or concerns (14%). We closely monitor the number of days between reporting and closure to help ensure timely review of  all concerns.
Corrective actions
If an investigation confirms employee misconduct, we take corrective action, which may include coaching, discussion during performance reviews, changes in job responsibilities (such as a demotion), or, in serious cases, dismissal. We also review root causes to assess for broader improvement actions. During calendar year 2022, 201 employees were terminated for ethical and compliance-related infractions, down from 270 in calendar year 2021.VOICE YOUR CONCERN LINE 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Number of inquires 972 789  873
Mild risk 84% 84% 87% 
Moderate risk 14% 14% 12%
Elevated risk 2% 2% 1%
INQUIRIES BY ISSUE† 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Workplace conduct 63% 56% 63%
Concerns or questions 15% 21% 14%
EHS concerns 7% 8% 8%
Quality/regulatory 4% 4% 3%
Fraud and accounting 4% 3% 4%
HCP interactions 4% 3% 3%
Patient relations 1% 3% 2%
Privacy/security 2% 1% 2%
Antitrust/fair dealing 1% 1% 0%
Theft 0% 0% 0%
Import/export‡0% 0% N/A
Security concerns‡N/A N/A N/A
† Some columns may not add up to 100% due to rounding.
‡ N/A denotes 0 inquiries whereas 0% represents a near zero percent of inquiries.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
94 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index179
employees (full-time equivalent) 
supporting anti-corruption efforts in FY22
99 %
third-party distributors received  
anti-corruption training in FY22
99.5 % 
marketing and sales employees trained 
on ethical product promotionEthics in 
sales and marketing
We advance patient safety as our top priority 
by upholding the highest standards of integrity in our sales and marketing practices. Our uncompromising approach to ethical responsibility extends from how we label and promote Medtronic products to the ways our sales and marketing teams interact with healthcare professionals.Adding business value
Ethical sales and marketing practices are 
paramount in building and maintaining trust with our stakeholders, safeguarding our reputation, and reducing legal and regulatory risk.GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
95 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexETHICS IN SALES AND MARKETING
Responsible marketing
All Medtronic employees are required to adhere to  
the sales and marketing practices outlined in our  Code of Conduct and our Global Business Conduct Standards Policy. We also expect employees to comply with industry codes of ethics and to follow all local  laws and regulations.
We continually evolve our responsible marketing 
practices in line with current and emerging market trends. This commitment helps shape our approach to ethics in marketing-related areas, such as social media communications, virtual interactions with customers, and off-label use of Medtronic products.
Ethical interactions
We work with healthcare professionals to expand patient access to our products and therapies. Our Code of Conduct incorporates companywide principles and standards governing employee interactions with healthcare professionals.
Our policies include a strong focus on appropriate 
interactions and transparency around those interactions, including payments to physicians, physician-owned entities, and healthcare organizations. Through diligent adherence to ethical requirements, we preserve the integrity of physician-patient relationships and avoid conflicts of interest.Our physician interactions include:
•
 C
ollaborating to develop new devices and therapies.
•
 Developing educa
tional materials and campaigns.
•
 P
artnering on clinical research.
•
  P
roviding training on how to use our devices and 
therapies.
All physician collaboration requires a verified legitimate 
business purpose. We follow a rigorous process to assess physician collaboration opportunities and ensure that any consulting payments reflect fair market value for services performed.
Our actions in FY22 included providing an updated 
mobile app to help our employees comply with spending limits on business meals with healthcare professionals. We also launched the Capital Equipment Optimization Project, which delivers consistent training and other guidance on appropriate practices governing capital equipment arrangements.
We transparently disclose transfers of value to healthcare 
professionals in each country where required by law. In the U.S., we publish our payment disclosures on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services open payments site. Beginning with our calendar year 2021 disclosure, we expanded our U.S. reporting to include Physician Assistants and Advance Practice Registered Nurses and consolidated reporting under one entity to help reinforce our commitment to transparency.
Finally, we also ensure adherence to appropriate 
marketing practices through routine audits, monitoring, and our investigative processes.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
96 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexETHICS IN SALES AND MARKETING
Countering corruption
The Medtronic board of directors oversees our anti-
bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC) program. We strengthen this program by periodically incorporating information from regulators, third-party audits, benchmarking, and best practices. We have 179 full-time equivalent employees supporting ABAC efforts.
Our Code of Conduct and ABAC policy prohibit bribery 
or facilitation payments and, in most countries, prohibits gift exchange. We clearly communicate these and other ethical standards to our full-time and part-time employees, as well as to contractors, through Medtronic policies, guidelines, and training programs. 
We train internal and external stakeholders on ABAC 
to make them aware of applicable regulations and to help them address ethically challenging scenarios. All newly hired sales employees receive in-depth training on our ethical sales practices within their first 60 days, with multiple, focused touch points throughout their first year.
Additionally, in FY22, we rolled out expanded global 
training on fair competition practices for all Medtronic personnel who interact with customers and for employees in supporting roles. 
Distributors and partners
When partnering with third-party entities to distribute our products to customers, we hold these partners to our high standards and require them to implement their own anti-corruption programs. We also share resources such as a best-practices toolkit, which we co-developed with AdvaMed and has been translated into nine languages to enable consistent industry standards.As a condition of working with Medtronic, all distributors must formally adopt a code of conduct that aligns with our ethical standards. We provide a sample code of conduct that distributors may use as a template, as well as other online resources in 13 languages to help distributors implement their own compliance program.
To further ensure that distributors adhere to our ethical 
standards, we:
•
  R
equire an annual commitment to abide by their 
adopted code of conduct.
•
  R
equire that they complete anti-corruption training  
at least every two years and implement their own  
anti-corruption programs.
•
  Suppor
t and monitor compliance, including 
conducting on-site monitoring of distributors.
•
  Assess corruption potential prior to r
enewing or 
entering contracts.
Our internal commercial Distributor Relationship Owners (DROs) are responsible for holding distributors accountable to ABAC requirements. Distributors must assign a senior leader from their management team to oversee their organization’s ethical practices, conduct employee training, ensure compliance with their code of conduct, and address Medtronic-specific reporting requirements.
DROs also meet regularly with distributors to discuss 
and certify their understanding of ethical requirements. In FY22, we held numerous training and communication activities involving distributors and their respective DROs on various topics, such as accounting transparency.
We continue to expand our direct sales infrastructure 
in specific markets to reduce our reliance on third-party distributors, decrease risk, and improve customer service.COUNTERING CORRUPTION  
FY20 FY21 FY22
Employees (full-time equivalent) supporting  
anti-corruption efforts214 215 179†
Third-party distributors receiving anti-corruption training 98% 99% 99%
Third-party distributors receiving on-site monitoring  (life of program)12% 13% 15%
†  Beginning in FY22,  we removed nonlegal/compliance employees from this count, leading to a decrease from prior years. 
RESPONSIBLE MARKETING TO CUSTOMERS AND PATIENTS 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Fines or settlements related to improper marketing  or sales of products
†0 1‡0
Fines or settlements paid by Medtronic related to noncompliance with anti-corruption laws (#)
§– – 0
Marketing and sales employees trained on  product promotion18,753 18,416 18,615
† Fines noted represent the year the fine was paid.
‡ $9.2 million settlement related to the interaction between sales employees and a neurosurgeon in South Dakota.
§ FY22 is the first year for which Medtronic is reporting on this category.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
97 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure index95,000+
full-time employees in more than  
150 countries
$31.7B
in revenue in FY22 Our economic 
impact
Medtronic creates rewarding jobs and 
expands economic opportunity in local communities through our global operations. We deliver direct economic benefit to individuals and communities through the wages and taxes we pay, and indirect benefit through our business with suppliers. Our strong business track record and continued growth enables us to increase the dividends we return to shareholders.
Adding business value
Growing businesses need healthy economies to thrive. 
Our continued financial success fuels broader long-term prosperity for our employees, suppliers, communities, and shareholders, which collectively contribute to the wider economic health of society.GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
98 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexOUR ECONOMIC IMPACT
Financial performance
In FY22, we continued to increase our revenue and 
market share while contending with global supply chain issues and other ongoing impacts of COVID-19, including a revenue decline in our China operations due to recent lockdowns. Although these challenges had an impact on our financial performance, we maintained strong support for customers, employees, and communities in more than 150 countries.
Our FY22 revenue totaled nearly $31.7 billion — an 
increase of approximately 5.5% on an organic basis, compared to FY21 — which excludes the $75 million negative impact of foreign currency translation. Revenue from emerging markets comprised 17% of our total revenue and increased 13% on an organic basis compared to FY21.
Our non-GAAP , currency-adjusted operating profit of 
$8.7 billion increased by nearly 22% compared to FY21, and we grew adjusted earnings per share by 26% in FY22. Our research and development (R&D) investments grew to an all-time high of $2.7 billion in FY22 — a 10% increase compared to the previous fiscal year — which reflects our continued focus on innovation as the engine of our long-term revenue growth. For example, we are investing in capabilities such as renal denervation, surgical robotics, and additional breakthroughs in data and artificial intelligence.
We have set long-term goals to continue growing our 
annual organic revenue by 5% or more, return at least 80% of our free cash flow to shareholders, and increase our adjusted earnings per share by 8% annually.
See our 2022 Form 10-K for more detail on our financial 
performance.Return to shareholders
Our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $5.55 in FY22 represents a 26% increase compared to FY21.  We paid dividends of $2.52 per share in FY22, marking our 44th consecutive year of dividend increases. Out of our more than $6.0 billion total free cash flow in FY22, we returned $5.5 billion — or 92% — through dividends and net share repurchases.92 %
of free cash flow 
returned to  
shareholders in FY22
44
years of consecutive 
dividend increases in 
the S&P 500 Dividend 
Aristocrats Index13 %
increase in emerging 
market revenue on an 
organic basis compared 
with the previous yearDIVIDENDS PER SHARE  
($ dollars)  
FY20 FY21 FY22
2.16 2.32 2.52
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
99 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexOUR ECONOMIC IMPACT
Employment and compensation
We design our compensation framework to  
reward our 95,000+ full-time employees in more than 150 countries for their ongoing commitment and to drive a high-performance culture. We align our employment and compensation support with the values expressed in Tenet 5 of the Medtronic Mission — to recognize the worth of all employees.
Read more about our approach to pay equity  
and compensation and benefits.Investment, expenditures, and taxes 
We deliver direct economic benefit to individuals and communities through the wages and taxes we pay, and indirect benefit through our business with suppliers. We sustain this positive impact through ongoing capital investments and operating outlays. Our commitment to maintaining good corporate citizenship includes paying taxes in every country in which we operate, as detailed in our Tax Policy statement. 
In FY22, Medtronic paid more than $2.2 billion in taxes. 
Our total tax contribution to governments on a global basis, including taxes collected from customers and employees related to the products we sell and the employment we provide, was $6.0 billion in FY22. 
Acquisitions and divestitures
We invest in or acquire other healthcare technology companies to access innovative solutions, strategic skills, and expertise aligned with our Mission. When appropriate, we use divestitures to ensure our portfolio remains focused on our strategic priorities. In FY22, we did not divest any significant business operations or finalize any significant acquisitions. We expect to finalize a number of acquisitions in FY23, and we continue to evaluate additional venture investing opportunities. 
Our total strategic investment and acquisition spend 
in FY22 was $1.7 billion.
1 Our investments included 
funding a new innovation campus in Colorado, United States, which will bring together 1,100 employees to further expand our R&D capabilities. In addition, we started work on our first core manufacturing facility in China to develop new cardiovascular device production lines in the Shanghai free trade zone.EMPLOYEES† 
(thousands) 
FY20 FY21 FY22
92.7 94.9 101.2‡
†   Number includes full-time and part-time employees. All counts are based on average 
calculations for the fiscal year; therefore, instances of rounding can cause the total count to vary by a small amount. Employee population data expressed here may vary from our form10-K depending on the time of year we gathered data.
‡  W e communicate “more than 95,000 full-time employees” publicly, including in this 
report, as a general statement of the employee population, which is always evolving.
EMPLOYEE SALARY AND WAGES† 
($ million)  
FY20 FY21 FY22
5,628 6,003 6,334
†  FY20 and FY21 da ta has been recast due to a change in how we report employee salary 
and wages. 
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS† 
($ million) 
FY20 FY21 FY22
467 668 459
†  Employee R etirement Benefits spend fluctuates based on several factors, including a 
variable 401(k) match component that is incremental to the standard 401(k) match.TOTAL EMPLOYEE COSTS  
($ million) 
FY20 FY21 FY22
9,366 10,105 10,193
1   Includes acquisitions,  additions to property, plant and equipment, and net purchases 
of investments.TAX PAYMENTS IN FY22† 
($ billion) 
Type of tax Taxes paid by 
MedtronicAdditional taxes 
collected by Medtronic
Corporate income, franchise, excise1.1 N/A
Payroll, social insurance0.8 2.4
Other
‡0.3 1.4
Total tax payments 2.2 3.8
Total tax contribution   $6.0
†  The tax information contained in this section is intended to provide the reader with an 
overview of all taxes paid by Medtronic plc. It should be read in conjunction with the Company’s tax information filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including in the most recently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Report on Form 10-K. This tax information is supplemental to, and not a substitute for, the information reported in the Company’s SEC filings. Taxes paid in a year can represent amounts accrued or owed related to prior tax years and paid in the current year, or prepayment of taxes that relate to a subsequent year.
‡  Includes VAT, Sales & Use, Property, Customs/Duties, dividend withholding, Municipal/Local, and Stamp taxes.
95K+
full-time employees  
at Medtronic in FY22
2022 Integrated Performance Report      
100 Introduction ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability ESG disclosure indexESG disclosure  
index
Global Reporting Initiative index  102
 Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board index  125
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures  128
World Economic Forum Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics  133Employee data summary  138Our FY22 environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure index 
references disclosures for our material issues that align with reporting frameworks and standards from the Global Reporting Initiative; Sustainability Accounting Standards Board; Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures; and the World Economic Forum Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics.
2022 Integrated Performance Report Introduction 101 ESG strategy Environmental sustainability Social impact Governance and accountability
 ESG disclosure index
GRI 3-3: EVALUATION OF THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Access
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsGlobally, too many people do not have access to the life-saving products, treatments, and services that are readily available for others1 
— particularly with respect to the prevention, detection, and treatment of noncommunicable diseases. The global health inequity 
crisis can only be solved by accelerating access to healthcare technologies that put people first. The accessibility of our products and solutions is critical to our Mission and our business success. 
B.
 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsA negative impact is created when those who need our products and therapies cannot access them or cannot use them. One of the many ways in which we are addressing this is by increasing the diversity in clinical trials and in the mix of healthcare professionals and others with whom we collaborate. Doing so informs our product development and innovation so we can create solutions that work for patients around the world.
C.
 
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic See policies and commitments in Global healthcare access.
D. 
 Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. 
 Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. 
 Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsOur actions to manage the potential positive impacts toward access are shared in Global healthcare access.
E. 
 R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken 
a. 
 P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. 
 Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. 
 T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresThe ultimate measures of our success are the number of patients globally who benefit from our products and therapies as well as our ability to continue to reach underserved communities with new products and healthcare models. Medtronic has a goal that 85 million patients will be served annually through our increased access strategies by FY25. In FY22, we served more than 76 million patients. 
F.
 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how 
it has informed whether the actions have been effectiveWe partner with peers, innovators, healthcare systems, governments, and others to deliver solutions matched to local needs and develop new approaches to increase access to our treatments. Read more in Global healthcare access.
1 World Health Organization, 2017.Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 102 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataAffordability
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsWe view access to healthcare as a human rights issue. One of the central levers for increasing access to life-saving products and 
solutions is affordability.
B. 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsAffordability of healthcare products and solutions is an industry-wide challenge. Too often, the traditional systems of payment for a volume of product or therapy do not incentivize value and tend to be based on short-term transactions rather than long-term results. Additionally, affordability can be impacted by whether or not a product or therapy is approved to be covered by an insurance provider, and therefore reimbursed to the patient. 
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic Read about our policies and commitments in Global healthcare access.
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for 
or cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsW
e take a VBHC approach — integrating products and services into solutions that improve patient outcomes while reducing the cost 
of care. Value is measured by long-term patient outcomes rather than short-term transactions. To accelerate the transformation of healthcare systems toward VBHC, we collaborate with others and advocate the advantages of this model.
We also leverage all relevant communication channels and technologies with customers and business partners to provide detailed, 
accurate price information across the world.
Medtronic offers a variety of pricing models based on the principles of fairness, sustainability, and value aligned with the local market 
environment; these include volume pricing or rebate options for hospitals, adaptive pricing for treating long-term conditions, and programs to assist new and existing patients and customers.
E.
 R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresWe monitor our VBHC partnerships on a case-by-case basis — tracking patient outcomes and efficiencies.
Read more about VBHC in Global healthcare access.
F. 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effectiveOur VBHC collaborations enable practitioners at healthcare systems globally to apply the right therapy at the right time to patients who 
will benefit most. Rather than receiving payment for a volume of product or therapy, we work with healthcare providers to integrate products and services into long-term solutions that elevate clinical and economic outcomes.
Read more in Global healthcare access.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 103 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataClimate risk and resilience
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsSocieties globally are threatened by the accelerating impacts of climate change, such as severe weather events, droughts, flooding, 
wildfires, disease, migration, and food scarcity. Globally, the healthcare industry is responsible for 4.5% of carbon emissions, and that percentage jumps to 8.5% in the United States.
2
B.  R eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsThe business activities that enable us to develop leading medical technologies also carry environmental impacts. These impacts include energy demand and emissions across our value chain, from supplier impacts during product manufacture, to our operations, to product end of life.
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic Read about our policies and commitments in Reducing our operational footprint and Climate risk and resiliency.
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsOne way we manage our climate risk and resilience is through our Decarbonization Roadmap, which includes pursuing science-based targets for the following: 
•
 Achieving carbon neutr
ality in our operations by FY30. 
•
 Engaging suppliers to r
educe their emissions.
•
 Ex
ecuting ongoing logistics improvements.
E. R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresWe have the following goals to guide our climate progress:•
  R
educe operational greenhouse gas emissions intensity 50% by FY25 compared to a FY20 baseline. In FY22, we achieved  
a 35% reduction compared to FY20. 
•
 R
educe energy intensity by 20% by FY25 compared to a FY20 baseline. In FY22, we achieved 9% reduction compared to FY20. 
•
 Achieve carbon neutr
ality in our operations by FY30 and achieve net zero across our value chain by FY45.
F. 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effectiveMedtronic communicates to all stakeholders on its approach to climate risk and resilience through our annual Integrated Performance 
Report and Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) report. In FY22, we partnered with England’s National Health Service and the U.S. National Academy of Medicine to find ways to reduce the healthcare industry’s carbon emissions. Additionally,  our ongoing engagement with investors and customers informed our climate goals and ambitions.
Read more on our stakeholder engagement in Reducing our operational footprint, Climate risk and resilience, and 
Stakeholder engagement.
2 P ichler PP , Jaccard IS, Weisz U, Weisz H. International comparison of healthcare carbon footprints. Environ Res Lett. 2019;14(6):064004.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 104 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataCorruption and bribery
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsUnethical business practices that violate state, federal, or international laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-
kickback laws, anticompetitive practices, and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act can result in economic, environmental, and societal disservices, among other impacts. 
B.
 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of 
its business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsPotential negative impacts could result from the actions of employees or our third-party distributors as it relates to the sale of our products and therapies, including interactions with healthcare professionals. 
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic To reduce the risk of corruption, we articulate our expectations through policies and principles, provide communication and training to employees at all levels of the organization, and proactively monitor our business transactions for unethical behavior. 
See our policies and commitments in Ethical business conduct and Ethics in sales and marketing.
D.
 Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide 
for or cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsT
o reduce the risk of corruption, we:
•
 Ar
ticulate our expectations through policies and principles.
•
 P
rovide communication and training to employees at all levels of the organization.
•
 P
roactively monitor our business transactions for unethical behavior.
•
 P
rohibit bribery or facilitation payments and, in most countries, prohibit gift exchange.
•
 Incorpor
ate information from regulators, third-party audits, and best practices into our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption programs.
•
 P
rovide annual ethics report for the board of directors and quarterly briefings for the board's Audit Committee.
•
  T
ake corrective actions for any employee misconduct, including coaching, discussion during performance reviews, changes in job 
responsibilities (such as a demotion), or in serious cases, dismissal.
•
 R
equire distributors to formally adopt a code of conduct that aligns with our ethical standards.
•
  Shar
e resources, such as a best-practices toolkit, co-developed with AdvaMed and translated into nine languages, that all industry 
companies can provide to their distributors.
•
 Encour
age employees to speak up through our Voice Your Concern Line.
E. R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresThe following metrics illustrate the effectiveness of our actions and highlight our progress toward our goals and targets:•
 179 employees (full-time equivalent) suppor
ting anti-corruption efforts in FY22. 
•
 99% thir
d-party distributors receiving anti-corruption training in FY22. 
•
 99.5% mark
eting and sales employees trained on ethical product promotion.
Through our annual risk assessment process, we also: •
 R
eview internal and external inputs, such as regulatory or enforcement actions, hotline reporting, audit findings, and investigations.
•
 P
erform internal auditing and data analysis to identify high-risk areas for investigation and remediation.
Read more about our goals and tracking in Ethical business conduct.
F. 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how 
it has informed whether the actions have been effectiveWe invite all Medtronic employees to provide feedback on our Ethics program through annual surveys. Employees globally can also 
access our Voice Your Concern Line at any time to report potential ethics issues or seek guidance, and we updated our reporting portal to simplify access in local languages. Read more about our stakeholder engagement on ethical issues in Ethical business conduct.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 105 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataData privacy and security
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsWe are in a time of rapid adoption of connected data devices and powerful data analysis that is contributing to innovative products, 
therapies, and delivery modalities, as well as faster research. In parallel, there has been an unprecedented increase in ransomware attacks and vulnerability announcements across sectors. It is essential that we safeguard information, assets, and systems in the  ever-evolving data and cybersecurity landscape.
B.
 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsNegative impacts related to data privacy and security could result from business activities and business relationships, but are continuously monitored and risk mitigations are applied.
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic Read about our policies and commitments in Data privacy and security.
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsOur Global C
ybersecurity and privacy programs are designed to protect data in the ever-evolving technology and cybersecurity 
landscape. We take the following actions to address and mitigate impacts related to data privacy and security:
•
 Use technology to scan our oper
ational environment for risks.
•
 Assess the risk
s of third-party projects and initiatives.
•
  T
rain all employees and contingent workers on security and privacy so they understand how to identify, protect, and preserve 
sensitive data and prevent cyber intrusions.
•
  R
equire our vendors to adhere to our data privacy and security standards, and evaluate these risks as part of our vendor 
assessment process.
•
 Supervise risk
s relating to cybersecurity with our board’s Audit Committee.
•
 C
ollaborate with third-party organizations, such as the Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center and AdvaMed.
•
 C
onduct ongoing privacy and security due diligence of IT systems and apply appropriate risk mitigations.
E. R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresWe continuously scan our operational environment for cyber risks and vulnerabilities, and we also assess the risks of third-party 
partners, projects, and initiatives. 
We closely track our performance across data privacy and security to identify where programs are succeeding and areas of 
opportunity. We also collaborate externally to understand how others are addressing similar challenges and to find new solutions to implement.
F.
 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effectiveTo advance data security practices, we collaborate with third-party organizations, such as the Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center (H-ISAC), AdvaMed, and the European Union Agency for Cybersecurity. We also contribute to global product security and cybersecurity standards in collaboration with the U.S. FDA and other regulatory advocacy groups.
 W
e also monitor current practices and emerging risks by engaging with employees, regulators, peers, healthcare delivery 
organizations, clinicians, and security researchers.
Read more about how we engage with stakeholders in Data privacy and security.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 106 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataEthics in sales and marketing
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsMaintaining the trust of customers, patients, industry partners, healthcare providers, investors, regulators, governments, and employees 
is critical to our ability to provide life-transforming care. Our customers depend on our medical products, services, and therapies, and promoting them factually and lawfully supports their delivery to patients with intended outcomes. Promoting our products ethically protects patient safety. Unethical behavior could have a negative impact on patient safety and equitable health outcomes.
B.
 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsPotential negative impacts resulting from sales and marketing include misleading promotion of products to customers, medical professionals, and the broader scientific community and noncompliance with anti-corruption or anti-bribery laws.
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic We promote our products based on their approved labeling and promote and sell our products through accurate and truthful communication of their efficacy, safety, and price. 
Read about our policies and commitments in Ethics in sales and marketing.
D.
 Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsT
o maintain our high level of ethics in our sales and marketing practices, we:
•
 Investiga
te all reported concerns of alleged misconduct through our Office of Ethics and Compliance (OEC).
•
 R
emediate ethical issues swiftly through our streamlined review process.
•
 Upda
te our mobile app to help our sales teams ensure they comply with spending limits on meals with healthcare providers.
•
  Deliver tr
aining and guidance on ethics policies governing sales of capital equipment through the Capital Program  
Optimization Project.
•
 P
rovide training and guidance on promoting our products based on their approved labeling. 
•
 Hold distributors accountable to anti-corruption r
equirements through our Distributor Relationship Owners.
•
 R
equire distributors to certify their understanding of ethical requirements.
E. R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresOur annual risk assessment process includes the OEC’s rigorous review of internal and external inputs, such as regulatory or 
enforcement actions, hotline reporting, audit findings, and investigations. 
The following metrics illustrate the effectiveness of our actions and highlight our progress toward our goals and targets:•
 179 employees (full-time equivalent) suppor
ting anti-corruption efforts in FY22. 
•
 99% thir
d-party distributors receiving anti-corruption training in FY22. 
•
 99.5% mark
eting and sales employees trained on ethical product promotion.
F. 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effectiveWe invite all Medtronic employees to provide feedback on our Ethics program through annual surveys and to express any concerns to 
our Voice Your Concern Line. 
Learn more about our engagement on ethics in Ethics in sales and marketing.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 107 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataInclusion, diversity, and equity 
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsWomen and minority groups have historically been underrepresented in the science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) 
workforce and in positions of influence across sectors. At Medtronic, we believe that diversity makes us stronger, so we work hard to treat employees and prospective employees equitably.
Beyond our workforce, we recognize that there are historical and ongoing inequities in healthcare. These inequities continue to be 
exacerbated by global challenges, including the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change, and conflict. Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation are working to expand economic opportunities, improve access to vital treatment, and build fairer healthcare systems and communities. We also actively invest in our communities – advancing diversity in STEM education and careers and promoting local economies and jobs through our supplier diversity program. Internally, our ERGs and Diversity Networks encourage employee engagement, an outcome of our concerted ID&E efforts. 
B.
 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsWe are not aware of specific negative impacts related to our ID&E strategies.
C. Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic Read about our policies and commitments in Inclusion, diversity, and equity. 
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsOur ID&E strategy takes into consideration Medtronic’s responsibility, as a collective organization and as individual employees, to promote ID&E in all of our spheres of influence. Hence, we account for our ability to positively impact the communities we operate in, hire from, and live in as well as the impact we can have internally within our company.
In FY22:•
  T
he Medtronic Foundation donated over $9 million to nonprofits, many of which address racial and social justice issues, through 
employee matches, volunteer grants, and program grants.
•
 W
e tied 15% of executive compensation to ID&E results.
•
 W
e offered Being an Inclusive Leader training to all U.S.-based managers.
•
  W
e built out a new, best-in-class operating mechanism to address social justice and societal issues management, called the 
Reputation Issues Management team.  
•
  W
e directed $2.7 billion of U.S. supplier spend to small and diverse-owned companies, approximately 36% of our total  
U.S. supplier spend.
You can read more about the actions we’ve taken in Inclusion, diversity, and equity.
E. R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresWe have set goals to monitor our progress on ID&E:•
 45% of
 global manager-and-above roles held by women by FY26.
 –
  FY22 pr
ogress: 42% of global manager-and-above roles were held by women.
•
 30% of
 U.S.-based manager-and-above roles held by ethnically diverse talent by FY26.
 –
  FY22 pr
ogress: 27% of U.S.-based manager-and-above roles held by people from diverse groups. 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 108 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataInclusion, diversity, and equity (continued)
F. 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effectiveTo further our ID&E goals, we engage with:
•
  V
ice presidents and other senior executives by requiring them to develop individualized plans to drive ID&E in their business, 
region, or function. 
•
 Employees thr
ough our Diversity Networks, Resource Groups, and our annual all-employee survey.
•
  New talent thr
ough our annual Diversity Career Events, where we engage with diverse candidates to hire for roles in sales, 
engineering, software, and more.
•
 External diversity le
aders, such as DiversityInc, by participating in surveys and integrating shared knowledge into our approach.
Read more about how we engage stakeholders in ID&E in Inclusion, diversity and equity and Stakeholder engagement.
Innovation
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsMaintaining a strong pipeline of innovative treatments and services is central to our Mission and supports the universal human right 
to healthcare. Our products and therapies help patients achieve positive health outcomes.
B. 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsWe are not aware of specific negative impacts related to our innovation strategies. Innovation focused on just the consumer without looking at human rights and the environment can have negative impacts. At Medtronic, we are driven by our mission to be patient-centric while focusing on sustainability and economic equity.
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic Read about our policies and commitments in Global healthcare access.
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsW
e foster innovation through our actions, including:
•
 Maintaining a str
ong product pipeline, focusing on new and emerging solutions alongside novel applications of existing technology.
•
 T
ailoring products and services to the unique needs of each patient.
•
 T
aking our most promising innovations through systematic preclinical or clinical trials, always taking a human-centered approach.
•
 L
everaging the power of advanced computing and hyper-personalization to increase access to treatments.
•
 P
rioritizing hiring diverse talent to spur innovation by broadening our perspective, backgrounds, and experiences.
•
 P
artnering with, investing in, or acquiring other healthcare technology companies to provide broader access to innovative technology.
Today, Medtronic LABS is an independent Medtronic-funded nonprofit organization that accelerates healthcare access for underserved communities around the world through technology.
E.
 R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresWe have the following target in place:
•
  By FY25,
 20% of Medtronic revenue will flow from products and therapies released in the prior 36 months as a measure of the 
vitality of our innovation efforts.
 –
  FY22 pr
ogress: 19% of Medtronic revenue flowed from products and therapies released in the prior 36 months.
Through our tracking of product impacts and waste management, we identified that we could make improvements to our packaging.  
So, we have committed dedicated resources to innovations in packaging through our Sustainability Development Center.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 109 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataInnovation (continued)
F. 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effectiveOur healthcare innovation team, a group of technologists, strategists, and designers, engages with Medtronic teams across every 
operating unit to turn innovative ideas into practical solutions, with a focus on human-centered design, high-quality deliverables, and hands-on learning.
 W
e partner with peers, innovators, healthcare systems and others stakeholders to deliver solutions matched to local needs and 
develop new approaches that increase access to our treatments.
Read more about our stakeholder engagement in Global healthcare access and Stakeholder engagement.
Integrated care
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsHealthcare systems are complex, and siloed approaches to care can result in higher costs and unsatisfactory outcomes for patients.
B. 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsOur activities to develop integrated care focus on partnerships with others to create healthcare technologies and new business models 
that improve patients' lives. Through these partnerships, we bring together inputs, delivery, management, and organization of services related to diagnosis, treatment, care, rehabilitation, and health promotion.
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic Read about our policies and commitments in Global healthcare access.
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsW
e partner externally to find and extend innovative solutions to global healthcare challenges. This starts at the innovation and new 
product development stage, where we collaborate with peers, innovators, and academics. Through VBHC partnerships, we work with health systems to improve long-term patient outcomes per dollar spent. We partner with healthcare organizations to develop new business models that improve patient outcomes and address healthcare disparities.
E.
 R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresIntegrated care is a key component of our overall approach to increasing global access to our products and services. We monitor and adjust each program and partnership on a case-by-case basis — tracking patient outcomes and efficiencies and applying what we learn to enable continuous improvement.
Read more about our actions in Global healthcare access.
F.
 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effectiveEngagement with peers, innovators, healthcare systems, and governments forms the foundation for our actions to develop integrated 
healthcare solutions. We work with these stakeholders to identify local needs and create effective solutions.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 110 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataPatient safety and product quality
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsOur products and therapies provide vital healthcare services to our patients. By ensuring the quality, safety, and reliability of our 
products, we elevate positive impacts and reduce negative outcomes.
B. 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of 
its business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsAny positive or negative effects of our products are predominantly the result of our business activities but could also extend to the suppliers that manufacture our products. 
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic See our policies and commitments in Patient safety and product quality.
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide 
for or cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsOur approach to patient safety and product quality takes a patient-centered approach and ensures that we deliver consistent companywide quality. Our processes and programs are described in Patient safety and product quality.
E.
 R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresWe monitor compliance with our quality standards at every point in a product’s life cycle. We track quality and safety by:
•
 E
valuating actual and potential safety issues, harm, and health risks to patients or users of Medtronic products and therapies.
•
 Simula
ting product use, forecasting performance, and pinpointing potential improvements.
 –
  FY22 pr
ogress: assessed more than 87% of all new products in our pipeline using this approach.
•
  Using pr
edictive and preventive risk assessments to reduce risk and optimize our supply base to avoid product supply disruptions 
through SOAR.
•
  Under
going external regulatory audits helps to keep us accountable, aware of regulatory priorities, and focused on making 
necessary changes to policies and practices.
 –
  FY22 pr
ogress: 95% of external regulatory inspections at Medtronic facilities globally resulted in no findings. 
We have the following goal in place for product quality and patient safety improvements:•
 10% r
eduction in aggregate product complaint rate by FY25, compared with a FY20 baseline, for identified product families.
 – 
 FY22 pr
ogress: 10% reduction in complaint rates compared to FY20.
F. 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effectiveThe advancement of medical research depends upon transparent data sharing and collaboration. We continue to share knowledge 
with the greater medical community. We also engage with regulatory bodies like the FDA to inform our quality systems and shape our approach in line with current guidelines.
Learn more about how we engage stakeholders in Patient safety and product quality and Stakeholder engagement.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 111 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataProduct stewardship
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsOur business of developing and delivering products supports local economies through the taxes we pay, the people we employ, the 
suppliers we partner with, and the patients we serve. We recognize that although our products provide a social benefit by improving patient health and well-being, they also have environmental impacts across their life cycle.
B.
 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsThe majority of our product impacts occur within Medtronic during product design, with our suppliers during product manufacture, and with customers when they dispose of the product. These effects include, but are not limited to, raw material extraction, energy demand, transportation emissions, and disposal.
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic Read about our policies and commitments in Product stewardship.
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsT
he positive impacts of our business are reflected in the improved quality of life for those using our products or therapies. We aim to 
maintain and amplify these positive outcomes while minimizing our product environmental footprint.
•
  In FY22,
 we launched the Sustainability Development Center (SDC) to focus on eliminating waste and materials of concern from our 
packaging.
•
  W
e also continued our product takeback program — in FY22, we recycled or refurbished more than six million products, diverting 
more than 280 metric tons of waste from landfills.
E. R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresWe have two product stewardship targets:•
  R
educe packaging waste by 25% for targeted high-volume products (tied to weight, material selection, and sourcing)3 by FY25 
compared to a FY21 baseline.
•
 Minimize the impact of
 Instructions for Use through a 35% paper reduction by FY27 compared to a FY21 baseline.
F. 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effective We engage with customers, suppliers, and industry associates to shape our strategy for product stewardship. We have held meetings 
and symposiums as a means to open dialogue on this issue, and we have established the Sustainability Development Center and identified packaging waste reduction as a priority in response to these engagements.
Read about how we engage stakeholders in Stakeholder engagement.
3 T he product families include: Tri-Staple; Polysorb; Absorbatack; Spinal Implants; Pulse Oximiter.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 112 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataResponsible supply management
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsBy continuously improving our supply chain resiliency and engaging with a diverse pool of innovative partners, we are better able to 
create and deliver high-quality, life-improving products and services while also minimizing disruptions and quality issues. Partnerships within our supply chain stimulate economic benefits by the wages and taxes paid by suppliers as a result of our business with them. 
We also collaborate to mitigate potential negative impacts, such as the environmental impacts associated with manufacturing, and the 
human and labor rights concerns that are associated with supply chains.
B.
 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of 
its business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsOur ability to improve lives hinges on the quality of our products. We share this responsibility for quality and the associated impacts of product manufacture with our suppliers. 
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic Read more about our policies and commitments in Supply chain responsibility.
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsTo maintain our high standards for excellence and citizenship with our suppliers, we: 
•
  Adher
e to our Responsible Supply Management program, which integrates responsible business practices into processes, such as 
supplier selection and supplier performance management.
•
  C
ommunicate our expectations and specifications to suppliers through our Global Supplier Standards and Supplier Quality 
Excellence Manual.
•
 Engage suppliers on me
asuring and reporting their greenhouse gas emissions and other impacts through CDP Supply Chain.
•
 Monitor supplier compliance and performance thr
ough our Supplier Sustainability Assessment.
•
  R
equire suppliers to responsibly manage and disclose any materials of concern used in our manufacturing processes, final 
products, or packaging.
•
 C
omply with U.S. Dodd-Frank Act on Conflict Minerals.
•
 C
onduct an annual supplier survey to identify red flag smelters linked to conflict minerals.
•
  P
iloted a new Supplier Risk Mapping tool to analyze suppliers for risks related to their geographic location, industry, and the 
amount we spend with them annually.
E. R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresWe have the following goal in place: •
  Assess the sustainability performance of
 suppliers representing at least 80% of our annual managed spend by FY26. In FY22, we 
assessed the sustainability performance of suppliers representing 66% of our annual managed spend. 
F. 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how 
it has informed whether the actions have been effectiveWe are dedicated to collaborating with peers on issues that impact our industry, which in turn helps us grow our knowledge and 
benchmark our progress. Our collaboration in FY22 included engagements with the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council and the Conference Board’s Responsible Sourcing Council. We also participated in MedTech Europe working groups to discuss emerging human rights and environmental due diligence laws.
Learn more about how we engage with our stakeholders in Supply chain responsibility and Stakeholder engagement.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 113 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataTalent
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsOur ability to offer innovative products and therapies that serve two people every second is a direct result of our employees. We 
support our 95,000+ employees by offering competitive compensation and benefits and building a workplace where everyone is respected and offered development opportunities that allow them to thrive. Through these positive impacts, we aim to reduce potential negative effects on our employees, such as lack of engagement, low productivity, financial uncertainty, stress, and burnout.
B.
 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsOur impacts on talent stem from our own operations and how we support, promote, and empower our employees. 
C. Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic Read about our policies and commitments in Inclusion, diversity and equity and Supporting a global workforce.
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsW
e work hard to attract and retain world-class talent. For example:
•
 In FY22,
 we spent more than $49 million on learning and development — an average of $496 per employee. 
•
 W
e offer robust healthcare and benefit plans. 
•
  T
he Healthier Together program, available to nearly 100% of employees globally, supports the physical, emotional, social, and 
financial well-being of our employees.
•
  W
e design our compensation framework to support a culture of performance and to recognize and reward our employees in more 
than 150 countries for their ongoing commitment.
E. R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
 
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresWe value employee safety and satisfaction and monitor the effectiveness of our actions.
•
 In FY22,
 a record 83% of full- and part-time employees responded to our Organizational Health Survey.
 –
  FY22 pr
ogress: 90% of employees who took the survey reported that they feel proud to work at Medtronic and 93% of 
respondents indicated that they feel Medtronic has a positive impact on the world.
F. 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effectiveWe engage with our employees to shape our approach to attracting and retaining talent through:•
 F
ormal evaluation and check-in processes.
•
 C
areer development conversations.
•
 Our Or
ganizational Health survey.
You can read more about how we engage in Supporting a global workforce.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 114 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataTechnology and device security  
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsWe work to identify, address, mitigate, and minimize vulnerabilities in our products that could potentially expose them to cyberattacks 
that could impact device security, patient data, or the effectiveness of our products.
B. 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipsOur Product Security Office works to minimize the potential for negative impacts associated with product security matters that may stem from our business activities or those of our suppliers and directly or indirectly impact our products. 
C.
 Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic Read about our policies and commitments in Patient safety and product quality and Data privacy and security.
D. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for or 
cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsTo avoid or mitigate technology and device security issues, we:
•
 Build security into our pr
oducts and stay current on external cybersecurity factors that could impact our products.
•
 P
erform vulnerability testing, updates, remediation, and impact assessment for device functionality and patient safety.
•
 Integr
ate security considerations throughout the product life cycle.
•
 E
valuate our quality systems and processes on an annual basis through our Quality Committee and Technology and Value Creation Committee.
•
  P
articipate actively in external working groups and forums with companies like Joined Optum, Boston Scientific, Abbott Laboratories, GE, 
J&J, Becton-Dickinson, and others to help to collaborate on industry topics that could impact product security in the healthcare industry.
•
 C
ontribute to global product security and cybersecurity standards in collaboration with the U.S. FDA and other regulatory advocacy groups.
•
  R
ecognize independent security researchers who have demonstrated ethical behavior and followed coordinated disclosure 
processes to advance our product security.
•
 T
rain employees on product security best practices.
•
 P
ublicly disclose security vulnerabilities through our Coordinated Disclosure Process. 
E. R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d. 
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresIn FY22, we publicly disclosed six security vulnerabilities, which included security bulletins, updates to previous bulletins, and security 
notices responding to third-party risks that may not be applicable to Medtronic but helped address customer inquiries.
The Audit Committee of the Medtronic board of directors has oversight of cybersecurity risk within our organization and our 
companywide security policies, standards, and procedures ensure consistency across our organization. We continuously scan our operational environment for cyber risks and vulnerabilities, and we also assess the risks of third-party partners, projects, and initiatives.
F.
  Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken and how it 
has informed whether the actions have been effectiveWe engage with many stakeholders on technology and device security, including:
•
  Employees,
 regulators, peers, healthcare delivery organizations, and security researchers to monitor current practices and emerging 
risks through our product security program.
•
  U
.S. FDA, the Health Information Sharing and Analysis Center, the Advanced Medical Technology Association, the Health Sector 
Coordinating Council Cyber Working Group, and several others.
•
  He
alth Information Sharing and Analysis Center (H-ISAC), the National Capital Region Threat Intelligence Consortium, and the 
Medical Device Innovation Consortium.
Read more about how we engage with stakeholders in Patient safety and product quality, Data privacy and security,  
and Stakeholder engagement.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 115 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataTransparency 
A. 
 Describe actual and potential nega
tive and positive impacts on economy, environment, 
and people, including impacts on their human rightsWe maintain a proactive approach to transparency to avoid the negative impacts associated with limited disclosures, and we believe 
transparent communication and collaboration enable us to mitigate risks, meet challenges more effectively, and amplify the positive impact of our business.
B.
 
 R
eport whether negative impacts are created through its activities or as a result of its 
business relationships, and describe the activities or business relationshipWe work within our business activities and our partnerships to minimize negative impacts stemming from limited transparency.
C. Describe policies or commitments r
egarding the material topic We remain committed to meeting best practices on ESG transparency, which is an area of continuous improvement for many companies due to the evolving landscape of ESG disclosures. 
We use external frameworks and benchmarks to guide our sustainability strategy and reporting and to learn where we can do better. 
These include:
•
 CDP
•
 Global R
eporting Initiative
•
 Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board
•
 T
ask Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
•
 W
orld Economic Forum
•
 UN Sustainable Development Goals
D
. Describe actions tak
en to manage topics and related impacts, including
a. Actions to pr
event or mitigate potential negative impacts
b. 
 Actions to addr
ess actual negative impacts, including actions to provide for 
or cooperate in their remediation
c. Actions to manage actual and potential positive impactsDuring the development of
 our annual Integrated Performance Report, we assess our ESG disclosures for alignment with best practice 
and evolving stakeholder needs. We are enhancing our data collection and reporting processes in preparation to meet emerging 
regulatory expectations.
E. R
eport on tracking the effectiveness of actions taken
a. P
rocesses used to track the effectiveness of the actions
b. Goals,
 targets, and indicators used to evaluate progress
c. T
he effectiveness of the actions, including progress toward the goals and targets
d.  
 L
essons learned and how these have been incorporated into the organization’s 
operational policies and proceduresTransparency is central to all our interactions within and outside our business — including with employees, investors, healthcare professionals, suppliers, regulators, and other stakeholders. Although we do not have external goals on transparency, we strive to meet stakeholder expectations related to sustainability/ESG disclosure and to comply with all related disclosure regulations.
F.
 
 Describe how engagement with stak
eholders has informed the actions taken 
and how it has informed whether the actions have been effectiveWe undertake regular reviews to keep track of our most significant sustainability issues, periodically updating our list of material issues by engaging with a broad range of internal and external stakeholders. Our annual disclosures are centered on our identified material ESG issues. In addition, we receive feedback on the quality and usefulness of our annual Integrated Performance Report during engagements with key stakeholders, such as investors, which informs our reporting.
Learn more about how we engage with stakeholders in Stakeholder engagement.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 116 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataGRI 1: FOUNDATION 2021
Disclosure number Disclosure Location
GRI 1 Statement of use In accordance
GRI 1 used GRI 1 foundation 2021
Applicable GRI Sector Standards NA
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2021
Disclosure number Disclosure Location
2-1 Organizational details Medtronic Public Limited Company
20 Lower Hatch Street, Dublin 2, IrelandOur business2022 Form 10-KMedtronic plc is a publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange Inc. under the ticker symbol MDT.
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting
2022 Form 10-KAbout this report
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point
About this report
2-4 Restatements of information Any restatements of information are noted in the relevant sections of our 2022 Integrated Performance Report.
2-5 External assurance This report has not been independently verified except for our FY20-FY22 environmental, health, and safety data and our FY22 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions data. We have practices in place to internally validate the data included in this report.2022 GRI Index
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 117 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataDisclosure number Disclosure Location
2-6 Activities, value chain, and other business relationships 2022 Form 10-K
Our businessOur economic impactSupply chain responsibility
Omission
Item omitted: Report the total number and the nature of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body 
during the reporting period.
Reason: We consider this information confidential. 
2-7 Employees
2022 Form 10-KOur businessOur economic impactEmployee data summary
2-8 Workers who are not employees
Employee data summary
2-9 Governance structure and composition Corporate governanceCorporate governance websiteESG strategy
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
Corporate governanceCorporate governance website
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
Corporate governanceCorporate governance website
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the 
management of impactsCorporate governance
ESG strategy
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts ESG strategy
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting ESG strategy
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 118 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataDisclosure number Disclosure Location
2-15 Conflicts of interest Ethics in sales and marketing
Corporate governance website
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Corporate governance website
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body ESG strategy
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body ESG strategy
2-19 Remuneration policies Inclusion, diversity, and equity2022 Proxy statement
2-20 Process to determine remuneration
Inclusion, diversity, and equity2022 Proxy statement
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
2022 Proxy statement
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Letters to our stakeholders
2-23 Policy commitments ESG strategyPatient safety and product qualitySupply chain responsibilityEthical business conductEthics in sales and marketingCorporate governanceData privacy and security
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
ESG strategyPatient safety and product qualitySupply chain responsibilityEthical business conductEthics in sales and marketingCorporate governanceData privacy and security
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
Evaluation of the management approach
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Ethical business conduct
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 119 SASB TCFD WEF Employee data Disclosure number Disclosure Location
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 2022 Form 10-K
Ethics in sales and marketingReducing our operational footprint
2-28 Membership associations
Climate risk and resilienceReducing our operational footprintGlobal healthcare accessSupply chain responsibilityPhilanthropyInclusion, diversity, and equity
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement
ESG strategyCorporate governance
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Medtronic complies with global laws regarding freedom of association and collective bargaining agreements, including 
participating in work councils. In FY22, approximately 9% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements or independent trade unions where applicable.
GRI 3: MATERIAL TOPICS 2021
 Disclosure number Disclosure Location
3-1 Process to determine material topics ESG strategy
3-2 List of material topics ESG strategy
3-3 Management of material topics Evaluation of the management approach
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 120 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataTOPIC STANDARDS
Disclosure number Disclosure Location
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2022 Form 10-K
Our economic impactPhilanthropyCompensation, benefits, and wellness
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 
climate change
ESG strategy
Climate risk and resilience
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Compensation, benefits, and wellness
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported PhilanthropySupply chain responsibilityGlobal healthcare accessESG strategyOur economic impact
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts
Evaluation of the management approachSupply chain responsibility
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
Supply chain responsibility
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Ethics in sales and marketing
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies  
and proceduresEthics in sales and marketing
Ethical business conduct
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Ethics in sales and marketingEthical business conduct
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practices2022 Form 10-K
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Product stewardship
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Reducing our operational footprint
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Reducing our operational footprint
302-3 Energy intensity Reducing our operational footprint
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 121 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataDisclosure number Disclosure Location
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Reducing our operational footprint
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Most Medtronic products consume relatively low energy as is, and safety requirements often prevent us from reducing a product's 
energy use.
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource CDP Water Disclosure
Reducing our operational footprint
303-5 Water consumption CDP Water DisclosureReducing our operational footprint
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Reducing our operational footprint
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Reducing our operational footprint
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Reducing our operational footprint2022 TCFD
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
Reducing our operational footprint
306-3 Waste generated Reducing our operational footprint
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Product stewardship
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supply chain responsibility
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 
and actions takenSupply chain responsibility
Evaluation of the management approach
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Employee data summary
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employeesSupporting a global workforce
401-3 Parental leave Supporting a global workforce
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Supporting a global workforce
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Supporting a global workforce
403-3 Occupational health services Supporting a global workforce
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety Supporting a global workforce
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 122 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataDisclosure number Disclosure Location
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Supporting a global workforce
403-9 Work-related injuries Supporting a global workforce
403-10 Work-related ill health Supporting a global workforce
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Supporting a global workforce
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 
programSupporting a global workforce
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Supporting a global workforce
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Corporate governance
Inclusion, diversity, and equity
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Inclusion, diversity, and equity
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Omission Topic omitted: Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken.Reason: The information is currently unavailable
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right of freedom of 
association and collective bargaining may be at risk
Global Human Rights and Labor Policy Program Report
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents  of child labor Global Human Rights and Labor Policy Program Report
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Supply chain responsibility
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Global healthcare access
PhilanthropyOur economic impact
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
Supply chain responsibility
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supply chain responsibilityEvaluation of the management approach
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 123 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataDisclosure number Disclosure Location
415-1 Political contributions Corporate governance
Corporate governance website
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 
service categoriesPatient safety and product quality
416-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and servicesOf inspections that occurred across Medtronic in FY22, 95% resulted in no findings.
417-1 Requirements for product and service
Ethics in sales and marketing
417-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning product and service information and labeling Ethics in sales and marketing
417-3 Incidents of noncompliance concerning marketing communications Ethics in sales and marketing
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer  privacy and losses of customer dataThe company investigates all potential breaches and takes corrective and preventive action in order to ensure customer privacy 
and data protection and reduce potential risks.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 124 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataMEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
AFFORDABILITY AND PRICING 
SASB code Metric Response 
HC-MS-240a.1 Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases (for all 
products) to the annual increase in the U.S. Consumer Price IndexThe U.S. Consumer Price Index measures the average change over time in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market basket 
of consumer goods and services, such as food, energy, and housing. In contrast, pricing at global medical technology companies that provide a breadth of therapies to health systems around the world moves on innovation, competition, and value.
Consequently, Medtronic offers a variety of pricing models based on the principles of fairness, sustainability, and value aligned with 
the local market environment — these include volume pricing or rebate options for hospitals, adaptive pricing for treating long-term conditions, and programs to assist new and existing patients and customers.
HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information (such as average and 
median) for each product is disclosed to customers or their agents (e.g., group purchasing organizations or consultants)
Global healthcare access
PRODUCT SAFETY
SASB code Metric Response 
HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled Patient safety and product quality 
In FY22, we had 55 total Class I and II recalls and retrieved approximately 35,506 recalled units. Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) index 
U.S. FDA recalls by fiscal year FY20 FY21 FY22
FDA Class I recalls 6 10 9
FDA Class II recalls 25 46†46
†  The data has been recast from our 2021 Integrated Performance Report due to recalls that occurred in a select fiscal year but were not confirmed until after the report was published.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 125 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataSASB code Metric Response 
HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled
HC-MS-250a.2 List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for 
Human Medical Products databaseSee the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database.
HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience We report all necessary data as required by the U.S. FDA. This information is available here.
HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP),  by typeIn FY22, Medtronic received: 
•
 1 
Warning letter
•
 0 Seizur
es
•
 0 C
onsent decrees
ETHICAL MARKETING
SASB code Metric Response 
HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with false marketing claimsEthics in sales and marketing
HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products Ethics in sales and marketing
PRODUCT DESIGN AND LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT 
SASB code Metric Response 
HC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human health considerations associated with chemicals in products and meet demand for sustainable products Product stewardship
HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for takeback and reused, recycled, or donated, broken down by: (1) devices and equipment and (2) supplies Product stewardship
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
SASB code Metric Response 
HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers' facilities participating in third-party audit programs for manufacturing and product qualityAll Medtronic contract manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers are annually audited by regulators. Additionally, many 
of our direct material suppliers are ISO certified (ISO9001 or ISO13485) and go through certification audits. Medtronic is also a member of MedAccred — an industry managed, consensus-driven approach to ensuring critical manufacturing process quality throughout the medical device supply chain.U.S. FDA recalls by calendar year CY20 CY21 CY22†
FDA Class I recalls 6 12‡8
FDA Class II recalls 34‡52‡23
†  Data as of September 12, 2022.   
‡  The data has been recast from our 2021 Integrated Performance Report due to recalls that occurred in a select calendar year but were not confirmed until after the report was published.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 126 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataSASB code Metric Response 
HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the 
distribution chain Medtronic maintains traceability within the manufacturing and distribution chain through either serial or batch control of finished 
products. We:
•
  L
everage product identification technologies, such as barcoding and radiofrequency identification, to track identifying 
information of products.
•
  Utilize enterprise r
esource planning (ERP) solutions to support identification and control of products once they leave 
manufacturing sites — including supporting specific patient tracking if required. Our ERP solutions ensure compliance with 
regulatory, quality, and customs control requirements.
HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated with the use 
of critical materialsUnexpected events can cause both everyday and exceptional supply disruptions to materials critical to Medtronic. To protect and 
enable the Medtronic Mission, the company has developed and deployed a comprehensive supply risk management approach —including methodology, tools, and governance — to proactively identify, assess, prioritize, and mitigate supply risk.
•
  Supply risk management is a critical par
t of overall Medtronic business continuity, crisis management, and supply management 
strategies.
•
  Supply critical to Medtr
onic is routinely identified via risk assessment of suppliers and components required to make the 
finished product.
•
  Medtr
onic continually monitors external risks, such as natural disasters, operational risk, political risk, and environmental and 
social risks, and internal risks, such as single/sole-sourced suppliers, single manufacturing location, investigation of sub-tier 
suppliers, quality and delivery data, and capacity assessments.
 –
  Once risk mitiga
tions are approved, Medtronic proactively implements mitigation strategies, including identification of 
alternate suppliers, adding additional supplier manufacturing locations, increasing inventory levels, and partnering with suppliers to improve quality and delivery.
BUSINESS ETHICS 
SASB code Metric Response 
HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with bribery or corruptionEthics in sales and marketing
HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with healthcare professionals Ethics in sales and marketing
Ethical business conduct
ACTIVITY METRIC
SASB code Metric Response 
HC-MS-000.A Number of units sold by product category Not reported
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 127 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataTask Force on Climate-Related  
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Category and recommended disclosure Medtronic disclosure
Governance
Disclose the Organization’s 
governance around climate-related risks and opportunities
a)
  Describe the boar
d’s oversight  
of climate-related risks and 
opportunities
b)
  Describe management
’s role in 
assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunitiesMedtronic operates in a complex, dynamic, highly competitive, and regulated environment. The business and affairs of the Company are governed by a board of directors. Our approach to governance is detailed at https://www.medtronic.com/us-en/about/corporategovernance/overview.html.
Although the full board of directors maintains ultimate risk oversight responsibilities, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Medtronic board of directors is the lead 
committee responsible for environmental, social, and governance (ESG) oversight and regularly reviews ESG topics that are a priority for the company. In addition, other committees (such as the Audit Committee) engage in climate-related discussions as appropriate.
Medtronic includes the assessment and ranking of potential impacts associated with transitional and physical climate risks on Medtronic as part of our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
program. This allows us a standard mechanism to elevate the most significant risks identified to Executive Management and the Medtronic Board of Directors, which recently completed a risk prioritization survey that included a number of climate-related risks identified through this process.
Climate-related issues that pose a significant risk to the company’s ability to meet our strategic goals and financial targets are escalated to the Medtronic board through our ERM 
framework as well as through the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee’s oversight of ESG topics.
At the management level, embedding and evolving a strong sustainability strategy requires clear leadership and broad organizational participation. Coordinated leadership oversight and 
support for identifying and addressing sustainability priority issues, including climate-related risks and opportunities, are embedded into our organization. 
Our Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC), which meets quarterly, oversees our sustainability program, including strategic plans related to ESG performance, risk, engagement and 
disclosure, and recognition. Among other responsibilities, the SSC participates in the identification of material ESG issues and oversees the company’s performance related to those issues, including establishing or monitoring metrics, commitments, and performance aspirations/targets. For example, the SSC contributes to our corporate environmental strategy, including our long-term targets for energy use/greenhouse gas emissions reduction, renewable energy, and water conservation. 
The executive sponsor of the SSC is our Chief Financial Officer, who serves on the company's Executive Committee and ERM Steering Committee, and is responsible for leading the 
Medtronic global finance organization and key supporting functions, including Treasury, Controllership, Tax, Internal Audit, Investor Relations, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, Portfolio Management, and IT. The SSC membership also includes other executive committee members and senior leaders of key operations and business functions who provide a broad range of perspectives and expertise in risk management; finance; legal; government affairs; investor relations; compliance; corporate governance; human resources; communications; philanthropy; quality; procurement; operations and supply chain; and environmental, health, and safety. 
Our Enterprise Sustainability Program, led by our Director of Enterprise Sustainability, who reports to our Vice President, Chief Counsel Corporate Governance, collaborates with the SSC and leaders from 
across the organization to conduct regular reviews of our ESG strategies, identify emerging trends, and monitor performance related to the company’s material ESG issues. Routine quarterly reporting to the SSC includes progress on goals and targets, changes in the regulatory landscape, and updates on programs and operations designed to address key ESG issues, including those that are climate related.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 128 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataCategory and recommended disclosure Medtronic disclosure
Governance (continued)
Risk Management
Disclose how the organization 
identifies, assesses and manages  climate-related risks. 
a)
  Describe the or
ganization’s 
processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks.
b)
  Describe the or
ganization’s 
processes for managing  climate-related risks
c)
  Describe how pr
ocesses for 
identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.Our ERM function works with senior leaders across the organization to enable risk identification, develop risk tolerances, establish key metrics to evaluate risk, escalate risk topics based on criticality, and drive risk mitigation plans. Quarterly, ERM summarizes and creates a report on critical risks to present to the ERM Steering Committee. This committee has ultimate responsibility for risk monitoring and is made up of seven direct reports to the CEO: EVP and CFO, EVP Global Operation and Supply Chain, Chief Quality Officer, General Counsel, EVP and EMEA and APAC Regional President, Chief Clinical and Regulatory Officer, EVP and President for Medical Surgical Portfolio. Additionally, functional leadership within Environmental, Health and Safety, Enterprise Risk and Continuity, Facilities, and Global Energy all report directly to the Vice President of Enterprise Risk and Facilities, who oversees reporting on risk issues, projects, and other risk-related results to the ERM Steering Committee. 
Medtronic Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) uses a structured risk identification and assessment process that incorporates both quantitative and qualitative factors to score and prioritize 
identified risks. 
Medtronic ERM assesses established and emerging enterprise risks based on scoring criteria that includes the potential for negative impacts to Medtronic, the likelihood of risk 
occurrence, the preparedness of the organization to address potential risks, and the velocity or speed of onset for which Medtronic will realize the potential impact(s) of the risk event. Each of the scoring criteria include supporting evaluation elements that, when considered collectively, produce an overall inherent score as well as a residual risk score after considering the effectiveness of Medtronic’s preparedness and risk mitigation plans. 
For example, although the impact score includes ratings based on financial impact, there are other considerations that drive risk assessments, including organizational impacts relating to 
reputational/brand, quality, regulatory/legal/compliance, operations, and the ability to achieve strategic objectives and maximize beneficial outcomes based on managed risks. Examples of risk themes/areas aligned to ERM processes include: Capacity for Innovation, Product Safety, Market Disruptions, Global Political and Regulatory Shifts, and Operations Interruption.  ESG risks — inclusive of climate-related risks — are included in Medtronic’s ERM processes and are assessed consistently with other enterprise and emerging risks. As an example, physical and transitional climate risks were included in a recent ERM risk survey distributed to our ERM Steering Committee and other key Medtronic business and functional leaders. 
Medtronic’s Business Continuity Management (BCM) program focuses on operational risk — the risk of loss resulting from interruptions of critical processes, supply, people, and systems 
or from internal or external events — including climate risks associated with natural disasters, such as hurricanes and wildfires. The BCM program prioritizes Medtronic's critical products and services end-to-end value streams, focusing on resiliency and the identification and effective management of key operational risks. Product and service criticality is evaluated based on patient and commercial market impact. The program includes an annual risk assessment to determine and prioritize top risks and align on mitigation options and business continuity and resiliency strategies. During FY22, Medtronic began integrating physical climate risk into its BCM risk assessment platform. 
The BCM Program is governed by the ERM Steering Committee (comprising Executive Committee leaders) and the Audit Committee of the board of directors. It is the collective 
responsibility of these groups to ensure that Medtronic's critical operations are resilient and that key operational risks are being effectively assessed and managed.
The Enterprise Sustainability Program leads periodic risk assessments conducted by external experts to identify priority sustainability/ESG issues based on input from internal leadership, 
external customers, investors, NGOs, and industry associations. The most recent risk assessment was completed in FY19 and included identification of a broad range of potential risk issues that could impact Medtronic’s long-term business success — including climate risk and resilience. Each identified issue was individually scored based on input from interviews, surveys, and the external expert’s analysis and insights. Factors assessed included importance to business based on revenue generation, operational efficiency/cost savings, regulatory risk, credibility, trust or reputation, innovation and growth, and employee productivity, hiring, or retention and impact on stakeholders. This assessment focused on both risks and opportunities. We plan on conducting our next sustainability/ESG risk assessment during FY24. 
We identify and address transitional climate risks through routine monitoring of carbon regulations, including carbon taxes and greenhouse gas emissions data. Our Government Affairs; Human Resources; Environmental, Health, and Safety; and Procurement groups monitor relevant regulations in global markets — including regulations relating 
to climate change, such as emissions limits.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 129 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataCategory and recommended disclosure Medtronic disclosure
Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential 
impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material.
a)
  Describe the impact of
 climate-
related risks and opportunities 
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term.
b)
  Describe the impact of
 climate-
related risks and opportunities on the organization's businesses, strategy and financial planning.
c)
  Describe the r
esilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.In the World Economic Forum’s 2022 Global Risks Report, climate action failure was identified as the most severe global risk over the next 10 years, followed by extreme weather and biodiversity loss. Human environmental damage and natural resource crises were ranked seventh and eighth.
Climate-Related Risks
Significant climate-related risks to Medtronic are consistent with these findings and center on transition risks, including rapid changes in customer and investor preferences, policy and 
regulations, such as those around carbon emissions and climate disclosure, and physical risks associated with natural disasters, such as hurricanes and wildfires, which can cause significant business disruption. For example, in 2017, Hurricane Maria shut down four Medtronic facilities and negatively impacted sales as production across all business lines was interrupted. Additional costs were incurred to restore operations in Puerto Rico and provide humanitarian aid to Medtronic employees. An analysis of potential physical climate risks at the company’s highest impact sites also identified potential risks related to increased temperatures/heat stress, drought, and water stress.
Medtronic global operations identifies climate-related risks and opportunities based on short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons. Short-term horizon is 1-3 years and specifically 
centers on annual financial planning within global operations. Medium-term horizon is 3-10 years and is primarily focused on operational footprint planning within global operations. Our long-term horizon is 10 years and beyond and primarily relates to operational footprint and global market risks and opportunities. 
We address climate-related risk predominantly through business strategies within our enterprise global operations functions, including Facilities; Environmental, Health, and Safety; 
Business Continuity Management; and Global Energy. 
For example, recent climate adaptation investments have included simple things, such as landscape design at a Colorado facility, to mitigate wildfire exposure or generator power for 
locations in Puerto Rico with hurricane exposure. We also invest in energy and water efficiency projects, renewable and clean energy sources, on-site energy installations, and capital investments that improve facility resilience. The enterprise annual financial planning process prioritizes enterprise and functional expenditures related to these types of projects. Medtronic has a dedicated budget for energy efficiency projects that can be utilized by all operations for qualified projects.
Applying our ERM framework, we have identified two additional climate risks:•
  R
eputation: Stakeholder concern or negative feedback regarding our climate impacts and strategy could result in unfavorable perceptions that could reduce shareholder investment 
and lead to a reduction in capital availability that allows Medtronic to execute on long-term business strategy. It could also affect the company’s position as a preferred supplier with 
customers.
•
  Incr
eased pricing of greenhouse gas emissions: Medtronic operates globally, and in many countries where policy changes are under consideration, increased pricing could have an 
immediate impact on operating costs.
Climate-related opportunities
Physical climate opportunities are identified and addressed through structured EHS and Global Energy management processes that include goal setting and strategic objectives. 
Through this process, Medtronic has identified multiple climate-related opportunities relating to energy sources, resilience, and product development, manufacturing, and distribution.
Medtronic operates numerous renewable and alternative energy installations, including solar, cogeneration, and fuel cell technologies, totaling over 70,000 MWh of electricity. As the 
carbon markets mature, the environmental attributes of these installations grow, making the existing installations financially more attractive and future installations more feasible.
We view investments in on-site renewable and alternative energy, such as solar, cogeneration plants, and geothermal, as strategic for building business resilience because of their potential 
to decrease interruptions to operations and reduce company dependence on utility providers. Medtronic continues to consider these installations as part of its overarching manufacturing footprint strategy and invests in them accordingly.
We see potential for innovations in sustainable product and packaging design and manufacturing network design to yield additional climate-related opportunities. During FY22, 
we established a Sustainability Development Center to pursue packaging waste reductions aligned with our public targets.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 130 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataCategory and recommended disclosure Medtronic disclosure
Strategy (continued)
Disclose the actual and potential 
impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material.
a)
  Describe the impact of
 climate-
related risks and opportunities 
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term.
b)
  Describe the impact of
 climate-
related risks and opportunities on the organization's businesses, strategy and financial planning.
c)
  Describe the r
esilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.Scenario analysis
Medtronic leverages a third-party system to perform scenario analysis on natural hazards (tropical cyclone, extra-tropical cyclone, tornado, hail, wildfire, and flood). As an example, short-
term wildfire is assessed with an exposure rating based on climatic condition and vegetation data linked with historical data. Long-term scenarios add heat stress, which could exacerbate or reduce the overall threat of wildfire. This allows us to prepare immediate climate adaptation based on the changing risk associated with the latest weather patterns and to understand where our exposure is changing over time. 
Water stress continues to be among the largest global risks in terms of potential impact over the next decade. Changes in precipitation patterns and extreme variability in weather patterns 
can result in chronic increased temperatures, decreased water availability, and elevated operations costs from increased cooling and restricted water use. We know that water stress and scarcity is a growing global concern, and Medtronic is preparing our business for a time when water resources are critically challenged in some regions. Assessing this risk allows us to identify the significance and potential impact to our business. 
We leverage our biennial operational water stress analysis to integrate scenario analysis into our climate-related strategies. Our FY22 analysis, which uses data from the World Resources 
Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, yielded information about current and future water stress (through 2040) at key Medtronic locations around the globe that use three million or more gallons per year. Assessment of future stress aligned with three specific temperature pathways: optimistic, business as usual, and pessimistic. In FY22, we expanded the scope of our assessment from Medtronic facilities that use five million gallons of water or more annually to Medtronic facilities that use three million gallons of water or more annually. We conducted a similar analysis of our top five contract manufacturers, scoping the assessment to locations relevant to Medtronic. 
Each outcome of these scenarios is included in risk assessments that support our Business Continuity Program. This program is leveraged to prioritize site investment in climate adaptation 
and risk mitigation, which led to the implementation of water conservation objectives at additional Medtronic sites in Mexico. In addition, the longer-term risks are incorporated into our global manufacturing network strategy beginning in FY23. This includes key contract manufacturers that have been assessed as high risk based on their location and shared conservation and preparedness strategies. 
Climate action
Our response to identified climate risks and opportunities includes strategic initiatives around achieving carbon neutrality in our operations and net zero across our value chain. In FY20, 
Medtronic announced an ambition to be carbon neutral in our owned and operated facilities by FY30. Our approach includes a continued focus on energy efficiency, on-site renewable and clean energy installations, and purchases of renewable energy credits (RECs) and carbon offsets, which should transition to virtual power purchase agreements (VPPAs) by FY25. 
In 2021, we announced our ambition to be net zero across our value chain by FY45. Our Decarbonization Roadmap provides a high-level overview of our strategy, which includes 
announcing science-based greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction targets by FY25 in three key areas: operational carbon neutrality, supply chain GHG emissions reduction, and ongoing logistics improvements. We plan to work with the Science-based Targets initiative (SBTi) to ensure alignment with the Paris Agreement.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 131 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataCategory and recommended disclosure Medtronic disclosure
Metrics and Targets
Disclose the metrics and targets  
used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.
a)
  Disclose the metrics used by 
the or
ganization to assess climate-
related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. 
b)
  Disclose Scope 1,
 Scope 2, and if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks.
c)
  Describe the tar
gets used by the 
organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.We have established companywide environmental targets since 2007, with a focus on reductions in energy use and GHG emissions throughout our operations. In FY20, we reached the end of our second set of long-term targets based on an FY13 baseline and exceeded all of them. We set new targets through FY25, which include a 50% reduction in GHG intensity, 20% reduction in energy intensity, sourcing 50% of our energy from renewable and alternative sources, and 15% reduction in water and waste intensity from a FY20 baseline. We evaluate progress toward our environmental performance goals on an annual basis.
Our new emission and energy goals move us toward our ambition of being carbon neutral in our operations by 2030. We aim to reduce nearly 250,000 tons of emissions annually. 
Over the next decade, these reductions will be approximately equal to emissions generated by 80,000 U.S. homes over the same time period. 
As part of our aspiration to be net zero across our value chain by FY45, in FY22, we began engaging our top 100 suppliers on GHG emissions measurement, disclosure, and reduction 
through CDP Supply Chain, which will help us establish baseline and move toward Scope 3 emissions targets. Medtronic also engaged our top five logistics partners around emissions reduction and partnered with one on a project to analyze order consolidation.
Our annual CDP submission provides additional information about our GHG emissions targets and progress, emission reduction initiatives, and other climate-related activities. 
Other relevant information about how we collect data and calculate emissions is included in the metrics and targets disclosures in our 2022 CDP submission and on pages 30-34 of this report.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 132 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataGOVERNANCE 
Theme Disclosure Response 
Governing purpose The company’s stated purpose, as the expression of the means by which a business proposes solutions to 
economic, environmental, and social issues. Corporate purpose should create value for all stakeholders, including shareholders.Material issues and targets
Corporate governance
Quality of governing body Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: competencies relating to economic, 
environmental, and social topics; executive or nonexecutive; independence; tenure on the governance body; number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments; gender; membership of under-represented social groups; stakeholder representation.Sustainability governance
Corporate governance2022 TCFD
Stakeholder engagement A list of the topics that are material to key stakeholders and the company, how the topics were identified and how 
the stakeholders were engaged. Material issues and targets
Ethical behavior 1. 
 T
otal percentage of governance body members, employees and business partners who have received training 
on the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures, broken down by region.
2. 
 a)   T
otal number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed during the current year, but related to 
previous years.
 b)  
Total number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed during the current year, related to this year.
3. 
 Discussion of
 initiatives and stakeholder engagement to improve the broader operating environment and 
culture in order to combat corruption.Nearly 100% of governance body members and employees have received training on our anti-corruption policies across all regions. 
We had zero incidents of corruption during the current 
year related to previous year, and zero incidents of corruption during the current year related to this year. 
Read Ethics in sales and marketing for how we engage 
stakeholders to combat corruption. 
A description of internal and external mechanisms for:
1.
 Seeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior and or
ganizational integrity; and
2. R
eporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior and lack of organizational integrity.Ethical business conduct World Economic Forum (WEF)  
Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 133 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataRisk and opportunity oversight Company risk factor and opportunity disclosures that clearly identify the principal material risks and opportunities 
facing the company specifically (as opposed to generic sector risks), the company appetite in respect of these risks, how these risks and opportunities have moved over time and the response to those changes. These opportunities and risks should integrate material economic, environmental and social issues, including climate change and data stewardship.2022 Form 10-K
Sustainability governance
PLANET 
Theme Disclosure Response 
Climate change For all relevant greenhouse gases (GHG), e.g. carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, F-gases etc., report in 
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO2e) GHG Protocol Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Estimate 
and report material upstream and downstream (GHG Protocol Scope 3) emissions where appropriate.Reducing our operational footprint
In FY22, we joined the CDP Supply Chain, a consortium 
of more than 280 global companies, working to help 40,000 suppliers quantify their environmental impact. Our membership will help us better understand our Scope 3 emissions and inform the development of our science-based targets. 
Fully implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). If necessary, disclose a timeline of at most three years for full implementation. Disclose whether you have set, or have committed to set, GHG emissions targets that are in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement – to limit global warming to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C – and to achieve net-zero emissions before 2050.
2022 CDP Climate Disclosure 
2022 TCFDIn FY22, we announced our ambition to reduce our 
carbon emissions to net zero across Scopes 1, 2, and 3 by FY45. To achieve this ambition, we created a Decarbonization Roadmap that outlines our focus areas — operations, supply chain, and logistics — where we intend to set reduction targets through the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi). 
Nature loss Report the number and area (in hectares) of sites owned, leased or managed in or adjacent to protected areas and/or key biodiversity areas (KBA).We are currently evaluating methods for tracking and reporting our adjacency to key biodiversity areas. 
Freshwater availability Report for operations where material: megalitres of water withdrawn, megalitres of water consumed and the percentage of each in regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress, according to WRI Aqueduct water risk atlas tool. Estimate and report the same information for the full value chain (upstream and downstream) where appropriate. 
2022 CDP Water Disclosure
Reducing our operational footprint
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 134 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataPEOPLE 
Theme Disclosure Response 
Dignity and equality Percentage of employees per employee category, by age group, gender and other indicators of diversity  
(e.g., ethnicity).Employee data summary
Additional information about ethnicity by employee 
category for U.S. employees is available in our EEO1 report on medtronic.com.
Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration for each employee category by significant locations of operation for priority areas of equality: women to men, minor to major ethnic groups, and other relevant equality areas.
Inclusion, diversity, and equity
Supporting a global workforce 
Global gender pay equity by region (adjusted for job title)
Region Pay equity as of 
August 2022
Asia-Pacific 101%
Europe, Middle East, Africa 98%
Latin America 97%
North America and Puerto Rico 100%Global gender pay equity by level (adjusted for country 
and job title)
Level Pay equity as of 
August 2022
Professional and management 99%
Support 100%
U.S. ethnically diverse pay equity by level (adjusted for 
job title)
Level Pay equity as of 
August 2022
Professional and management 101%
Support 99%
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 135 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataPEOPLE
Theme Disclosure Response 
Dignity and equality (continued) 1. R
atios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage.
2. 
 R
atio of the annual total compensation of the CEO to the median of the annual total compensation 
of all its employees, except the CEO.Our CEO-to-employee annual total compensation ratio is 
disclosed in our 2022 Proxy statement.
An explanation of the operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labor, forced or compulsory labor. Such risks could emerge in relation to:
 a)
 type of
 operation (such as manufacturing plant) and type of supplier; and
 b)
 countries or geogr
aphic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk.Supply chain responsibility 
Global Human Rights and Labor Policy Program Report
Health and well-being The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; high-consequence work-related injuries 
(excluding fatalities); recordable work-related injuries; main types of work-related injury; and the number of hours worked. 
An explanation of how the organization facilitates workers’ access to non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services, and the scope of access provided for employees and workers.Supporting a global workforce
In FY22, the most common work-related injuries were:slip, trip, or fall (19.3%); injury through manual handling 
or lifting (12.6%); struck by/cut by sharp object (11.4%); and hit against something fixed or stationary (6.3%). 
In FY22, we maintained our best-in-class level of safety 
across our global operations. Our overall safety record improved with high-consequence work-related injuries and lost workdays declining compared to the previous two years. We experienced zero work-related fatalities. 
Skills for the future 1.
 
 A
verage hours of training per person that the organization’s employees have undertaken during the reporting 
period, by gender and employee category (total number of hours of training provided to employees divided by the number of employees).
2.
 
 A
verage training and development expenditure per full-time employee (total cost of training provided to 
employees divided by the number of employees).Supporting a global workforce
We do not currently track all training by gender and 
employee category. We are exploring solutions for tracking this information companywide in the future. 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 136 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataPROSPERITY
Theme Disclosure Response 
Employment and wealth  
generation1. 
 T
otal number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender, other 
indicators of diversity and region.
2. 
 T
otal number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender, other 
indicators of diversity and region.Employee data summary
Inclusion, diversity, and equity
1. 
 Dir
ect economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D), on an accrual basis, covering the basic 
components for the organization’s global operations, ideally split out by:•
 r
evenue
•
 oper
ating costs
•
 employee wages and benefits
•
 payments to pr
oviders of capital
•
 payments to government
•
 community investment
2
  F
inancial assistance received from the government: total monetary value of financial assistance received by the 
organization from any government during the reporting period. 2022 Form 10-KOur economic impact At this time, we do not disclose financial assistance 
received from the government. 
1.
 
 T
otal capital expenditures (CapEx) minus depreciation, supported by narrative to describe the company’s 
investment strategy.
2. 
 Shar
e buybacks plus dividend payments, supported by narrative to describe the company’s strategy for returns 
of capital to shareholders.2022 Form 10-K
SEC Filings FY22 capital expenditures less depreciation were 
$394 million (CapEx additions of $1.368 billion; less depreciation of $974 million). Our capital investment strategy is focused on supporting revenue generation, R&D, and margin expansion initiatives. Our priority is to continue to fund critical strategic growth investments, such as product development and capacity expansion, while executing on existing initiatives.
Innovation of better products and services Total costs related to research and development.
2022 Form 10-K
Global healthcare access 
Community and social vitality The total global tax borne by the company, including corporate income taxes, property taxes, non-creditable 
VAT and other sales taxes, employer-paid payroll taxes, and other taxes that constitute costs to the company, by category of taxes.2022 Form 10-K
Our economic impact
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 137 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataEmployee data summary
GLOBAL AND U.S. LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY
FY20†FY21 FY22
CEO and global CEO direct reports who are women 22% 22% 24%
CEO and U.S. CEO direct reports who are ethnically diverse 19% 25% 33%
GLOBAL FEMALE TALENT REPRESENTATION
FY20 FY21 FY22
Woman employees 49% 50% 50%
Manager-and-above positions held by women 39% 40% 42%
Management positions in revenue-generating functions  
(i.e., sales) held by women32% 32% 34%
U.S. ETHNICALLY DIVERSE TALENT REPRESENTATION†
FY20 FY21 FY22
Ethnically diverse employees 37% 38% 39%
Manager-and-above positions held by ethnically diverse talent 23% 25%‡27%
NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES†
FY20 FY21 FY22
Woman (global) 51%‡ 50%§52%Ω
Ethnically diverse (U.S.) 52% 46% 47%†  At FY20 year-end, we went through a transition 
phase and had two acting CEOs. Calculation was completed by capturing retiring CEO and Direct Reports. Calculation also includes our new CEO (who had reported to the retiring CEO) and his Direct Reports. Some employees were transitioned from the retiring CEO to the new CEO.
†  United States, excluding Puerto Rico (excludes blank, no data, or did not disclose).
‡  This number is based on fiscal year 2021 and therefore is different than the number reported for our calendar year 2020 target, where we achieved 24% ethnically diverse talent in  manager-and-above positions.
†  Employee population data expressed here may vary from our 10-K form depending on the time of year in which the data was gathered.
‡   Zero records have values out-of-bounds (e.g., age=0). Forty-nine records do not specify gender.
§  Zero records have values out-of-bounds (e.g., age=0). Thirty-four records do not specify gender.
Ω  Zero records have values out-of-bounds (e.g., age=0). Twenty-four records do not specify gender.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 138 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataMEDTRONIC GLOBAL WORKFORCE  
FY20†FY21‡FY22§
Total 93,919 95,612 101,157
Woman 46,460 47,844 51,007
Asia-Pacific 13,619 13,728 14,967
Woman 5,923 6,200 6,893
Canada 1,366 1,316 1,293
Woman 801 788 767
Europe/Central Asia/Middle East/Africa 18,983 18,890 20,010
Woman 9,516 9,391 10,019
Latin America 18,222 20,126 21,306
Woman 11,013 12,375 13,100
U.S. and Puerto Rico 41,729 41,552 43,581
Woman 19,207 19,090 20,228†  Forty-five records do not specify gender.
‡  Thirty-eight records do not specify gender.
§  Thirty-four records do not specify gender.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 139 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataEMPLOYMENT TYPE 
FY20†FY21‡FY22§
Support staff 38,325 39,118 40,601
Woman 22,362 23,026 23,881
Professional 44,393 45,387 48,482
Woman 19,749 20,357 22,061
ManagementΩ10,664 10,551 11,514
Woman 4,183 4,284 4,872
VPs and higher 537 556 560
Woman 166 177 193
GLOBAL FULL-TIME 
FY20†FY21 FY22§
Total 89,703 93,763 99,217
24 and under 5,588 6,118 6,679
25-39 41,523 42,898 45,544
40-54 32,452 34,142 35,564
55-69 9,980 10,479 11,268
70+ 160 126 162
Woman‡44,904 46,329 49,451
Asia-Pacific 5,844 6,123 6,821
Canada 789 772 750
Europe/Central/Asia/Middle East/Africa 8,235 8,131 8,710
Latin America 11,021 12,374 13,100
U.S. and Puerto Rico 19,015 18,929 20,070†  F orty-five employees do not have a job category 
designation.
‡  Thirty-eight employees do not have a job category 
designation.
§  Thirty-eight employees do not have a job category designation.
Ω Management = managers and above.
†  Zero records have out of bound values, so are not included in age breaks. Twenty-six records do not specify gender.
‡  Numbers by region are based on female  employees only.
§  Thirty-four records do not specify gender. 
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 140 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataGLOBAL PART-TIME 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Total 1,853 1,849 1,940
24 and under 19 25 38
25-39 592 513 517
40-54 958 974 999
55-69 278 333 379
70+ 6 4 7
Woman†1,555 1,515 1,556
Asia-Pacific 79 77 72
Canada 11 16 17
Europe/Central/Asia/Middle East/Africa 1,277 1,260 1,309
Latin America 1 1 0
U.S. and Puerto Rico 187 161 158
NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES 
FY20†FY21‡FY22§
Total 18,452 14,874 21,431
24 and under 4,784 4,373 5,097
25-39 10,334 7,876 12,283
40-54 2,843 2,251 3,409
55-69 478 368 634
70+ 13 6 8
WomanΩ9,465 7,470 11,126 
Asia-Pacific 1,177 1,031 1,577
Canada 103 94 70
Europe/Central/Asia/Middle East/Africa 1,193 680 1,565
Latin America 4,562 3,757 4,395
U.S. and Puerto Rico 2,430 1,908 3,519†   Numbers by region are based on female employees 
only.
† Forty-nine records do not specify gender.
‡ Thirty-four records do not specify gender.
§ Twenty-four records do not specify gender.
Ω  Numbers by region are based on female  employees only.
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 141 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataGLOBAL EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (VOLUNTARY AND INVOLUNTARY) 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Total employee turnover rate (total employees/# employee turnovers) 16% 16% 16%
24 and under 2,864 3,029 3,187
25-39 7,149 6,943 8,194
40-54 3,399 2,931 3,343
55-69 1,325 2,018 1,313
70+ 46 98 26
Voluntary employee turnover rate (total employees/# voluntary employee turnovers) 13% 13% 15%
Woman†7,488 7,399 8,140
Asia-Pacific 872 907 858
Canada 95 125 110
Europe/Central/Asia/Middle East/Africa 997 747 943
Latin America 3,411 3,413 3,830
U.S. and Puerto Rico 2,113 2,207 2,399
U.S. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS† 
FY20 FY21 FY22
American Indian or Alaska Native 138 133 150
Asian 5,664 5,647 6,060
Black or African American 2,109 2,208 2,437
Hispanic or Latino 3,010 3,169 3,141
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 125 131 127
White 20,486 19,863 20,419
Two or More Races 751 812 861
Unspecified‡5,377 5,520 10,386†  Numbers by region are based on female employees 
only.
†  Calculated actual headcount at the end of the FY21. United States only, excluding Puerto Rico.
‡  Includes records coded as “Do Not Want to Disclose,” “Unspecified,” or “Blank.”
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 142 SASB TCFD WEF Employee dataU.S. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (VOLUNTARY AND INVOLUNTARY) BY RACE AND ETHNICITY 
FY20 FY21 FY22
Total U.S. employee turnover rate (total employees/# employee turnovers) 11% 12% 10%
American Indian or Alaska Native 11% 16% 9%
Asian 10% 12% 11%
Black or African American 14% 13% 13%
Hispanic or Latino 13% 13% 10%
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 19% 8% 11%
White 11% 11% 9%
Two or more races 15% 9% 13%
Unspecified†16% 14% 11%†  Includes records coded as “Do Not Want to 
Disclose,” “Unspecified,” or “Blank.”
2022 Integrated Performance Report      GRI 143 SASB TCFD WEF Employee data