Environmental 
Report
2020Table of contents
Our approach
3 EXECUTIVE LETTER: Our third decade of climate action
6	 Performance 	highlights 	and targets
11	 Mission 	and	values
14	 Our	priorities
Designing efficient data centers
21 Introduction
21	 Energy 	efficiency
24	 Embedding 	circularity
24 E conomic impact
25 C arbon-neutral cloud
28 SPOTLIGHT: Developing 	a	carbon-intelligent 	computing 	platform
Advancing carbon-free energy
30 Introduction
30	 Our	energy	journey
36	 Investing 	in	renewable 	energy
37 Our carbon footprint
42 SPOTLIGHT: Boosting 	the	value	of	wind energy
Creating sustainable workplaces
44 Introduction
44	 Healthy 	ecosystems
46	 Green 	buildings
48	 Office 	op erations
52 SPOTLIGHT: Designing 	a	net-zero 	carbon workplace
Building better devices and services
54 Introduction
55	 Consumer 	hardware 	devices
56	 Circular 	materials
58	 Energy 	savings
59	 Partnerships
62 SPOTLIGHT: Making	energy	savings	easy	with	Nest
Empowering users with technology
64 Introduction
64	 Mapping 	our	world
68	 AI	f or 	 social 	 good
70	 Tools 	f or 	 everyone
72 SPOTLIGHT: Expanding 	climate	insights 	Down	Und er
Appendix
74	 Environmental 	data
77	 About 	G oogle
78	 Endnotes	
1
Google Environmental Report 2020Our approach
2
Google Environmental Report 2020Executive 	letter
Our third decade of  
climate action
Sustainability is one of our core values at Google, and we have been a leader 
on climate change since the company’s founding over 20 years ago. These are some of our key achievements to date:
In 2007,	we	became 	the	fir st 	 major 	 company 	 to 	 become 	 carbon 	 neutral, 	 
and	in	2019,	we	achieved 	13	consecutive 	years	of	carbon	neutrality.
In 2017,	we	became 	the	fir st 	 major 	 company 	 to 	 match 	 100% 	 of 	 our 	 annual	
electricity 	use	with	renewable 	energy,	which	we’ve	done	f or 	 three 	 consecutive 	
years.	W e 	 are 	 the 	 world’s 	 largest 	 annual 	 corporate 	 purchaser 	 of 	 renewable 	 energy.
In 2020,	we	neutralized 	our	legacy	carbon	f ootprint 	 since 	 our 	f ounding, 	 
making	G oogle 	 the 	fir st 	 major 	 company 	 to 	 be 	 carbon 	 neutral 	f or 	 its 	 entire	
operating 	history.
In 2020,	we	issued	$5.75	billion	in	sustainability 	bonds,	the	largest	sustainability 	
or	green	bond	issuance 	by	any	company 	in	history,	to	f und 	 ongoing 	 and 	 new 	
environmentally 	or	socially	responsible 	projects.
We know there is much more to be done, so we challenged ourselves  
to set bolder goals. That’s why, in September 2020, we were proud to launch our third decade of climate action with a new set of audacious commitments 
(see Figure 1).
Our planet, as seen via Google Earth 
©2020 Landsat / Copernicus
3
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachBy	2030,	we	aim	to:
Become 	the	fir st 	 major 	 company 	 to 	 operate 	 on 	 carbon-free 	 energy 	 24 	 hours 	 a 	 day,	
seven	d ays 	a 	w eek, 	365 	d ays 	a 	y ear. 	This 	will 	me an 	e very 	em ail 	s ent 	t hrough 	Gm ail,	
every	question 	asked	to	G oogle 	Se arch, 	 every 	Y ouTube 	 video 	 watched, 	 every 	 route	 
taken	using	G oogle 	 Maps, 	 and 	 every 	 workload 	 run 	 on 	G oogle 	C loud 	 will 	 be 	 powered 	
by	data	centers	that	are	supplied 	by	clean	energy	every	hour	of	every	day.
Enable	5	gigawatts 	of	new	carbon-free 	energy	across	our	key	manufacturing 	
regions	through 	investment. 	W e 	 expect 	 this 	 to 	 spur 	 more 	 than 	 $5 	 billion 	 in 	 clean	
energy	investments, 	avoid	emissions 	equivalent 	to	taking	more	than	1	million	
cars	off	the	road	each	year,	and	create	more	than	8,000	clean	energy	jobs.
Help	more	than	500	cities	and	local	governments 	reduce	an	aggregate 	of	1	gigaton	 
of	carbon	emissions 	annually—equivalent 	to	the	annual	emissions 	of	Japan	
(home	to	126	million	people).
And, because being helpful to our users is at the heart of everything we 
do, we set a near-term goal to offer 1 billion people new ways to live more 
sustainably via our core products by 2022.
To build a carbon-free future for everyone requires each of us playing our 
part—and that’s how we are approaching our work. We are focusing on our own  
operations as well as how we can support our partners and consumers globally  
to make more sustainable choices and drive more sustainable outcomes. 
As a data-driven company, we believe it is critical to regularly track 
progress toward our commitments and share updates with our stakeholders. For example, we began calculating our annual carbon footprint in 2006,  
and every year since 2009, we’ve publicly reported the results to CDP.  
We’re proud that for seven consecutive years we’ve earned a spot on  
CDP’s Climate Change A List, which recognizes top reporting companies.Figure	1	
GOOGLE’S 	THIRD 	 DECADE 	OF 	CLIMA TE 	A CTION
24/7 carbon-free energy
Become the first major company  
to operate on carbon-free energy  
24 hours a day, seven days a week,  
365 days a year.500 cities
Help more than 500 cities  
and local governments reduce  
an aggregate of 1 gigaton of  
carbon emissions annually.5 gigawatts
Enable 5 gigawatts of new  
carbon-free energy across our  
key manufacturing regions  
through investment.We’re helping build a carbon-free future for everyone
By	2030,	we	aim	to:
4
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachIn our 2020 Environmental Report, which covers progress in our 2019 fiscal 
year as well as some notable achievements from 2020, we are pleased to 
share how we are driving positive environmental impact throughout our value 
chain in five key ways:
Designing 	efficient 	data	centers: 	W e’ve	worked 	 to 	 make 	 our	
cloud	the	cleanest 	in	the	industry 	and	our	data	centers	some	
of	the	most	efficient 	in	the	world	by	designing, 	building, 	and	
operating 	each	one	to	maximize 	efficient 	use	of	energy,	water,	
and	materials.
Advancing 	carbon-free 	energy:	W e’re	purchasing 	 renewable 	
energy	f or 	 our 	 operations 	 and 	 helping 	 to 	 drive 	 wide-scale 	
adoption 	of	clean	energy	through 	investments, 	such	as	in	 
our	manufacturing 	regions.
Creating 	sustainable 	workplaces: 	W e’re	striving 	 to 	 enable	 
healthy	spaces	and	places	by	addressing 	the	carbon	impacts 	
associated 	with	our	offices,	advancing 	circularity, 	and	 
cultivating 	healthy	indoor	and	outdoor 	environments.
Building 	better	devices 	and	services: 	W e’re	designing 	 our	 
devices 	to	maximize 	recycled 	content 	wherever 	possible, 	
neutralizing 	carbon	emissions 	fr om 	 shipping 	 Made 	 by 	G oogle 	
hardware 	products 	to	and	fr om 	 our 	 direct 	 customers, 	 and	
helping	consumers 	save	energy	in	their	homes.
Empowering 	users	with	technology: 	W e’re	de veloping 	
technologies 	to	help	measure 	and	monitor 	the	planet	in	real	 
time,	using	artificial 	intelligence 	to	address 	environmental 	
challenges, 	and	building 	tools	that	empower 	individuals 	to	
reduce	their	personal 	environmental 	impact.
To learn more about how we’re collaborating with stakeholders across our 
supply chain to minimize our environmental impact and improve the lives of 
people who make our products, see our 2020 Supplier Responsibility Report. 
For more information about our overall corporate responsibility initiatives, 
see our Sustainability  and Commitments websites.
We believe that every business has the opportunity and obligation to 
protect our planet. At Google, we remain steadfast in our commitment to 
sustainability, and we’ll continue to lead and encourage others to join us in 
improving the health of our planet. We’re proud of what we’ve achieved in our first two decades, and as we embark on our next decade of climate action, we’re energized to help move the world closer to a carbon-free future for all.
Ruth	P orat
Senior Vice President and  
Chief Financial OfficerUrs	Hölzle
Senior Vice President of  Technical Infrastructure
5
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachPerformance highlights 
and targets
The following section provides a snapshot of our performance as 
of the end of 2019 and our targets going forward—demonstrating how we’re strengthening our business by reducing the environmental impact 
of our operations and working to empower people everywhere to live 
more sustainably. 
For a more complete overview of our performance over time, see the 
environmental data table in the appendix.
2019	PERFORMANCE 	HIGHLIGHTS
DESIGNING 	EFFICIENT 	DATA	CENTERS
Energy Waste
2x 
as	energy	efficient7x 
as	much	computing 	power1.1 0
average 	annual	PUE90% 
of	waste	diverted
On average, a Google data center 
is twice as energy efficient as a typical enterprise data center. 
Page	22Compared with five years ago, we now deliver around seven times as much computing power with the same amount of electrical power.
Page	22In 2019, the average annual PUE for our global fleet of data centers reached a new record low of 1.10, compared with the industry average of 1.67—meaning that Google data centers use about  six times less overhead energy. 
Page	22In 2019, we diverted 90% of waste from our global data center operations away from landfills. 
Page	24
Waste	(continued) GHG	emissions
19% 
of	components 	refurbished9.9 million 
components 	resold98% 
emissions 	reduction0 
net	carbon	emissions
In 2019, 19% of components used for server upgrades were refurbished inventory. 
Page	24In 2019, we wiped clean and resold nearly 9.9 million components into the secondary market for reuse  
by other organizations. 
Page	24A business using Gmail can reduce the GHG emissions impact of its email service by up to 98% compared with running email  
on on-premises servers. 
Page	26Whether someone is using  Google at home or as part of  an organization running Google Cloud or Google Workspace,  all products in our Cloud are  carbon neutral. 
Page	26
6
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachADVANCING 	CARBON-FREE 	ENERGY
Energy
5.5	GW 
of	renewable 	energy100 % 
renewable 	energy40	milli on	MWh 	 
of	renewable 	energy$2.7  billion  
in	investment 	commitments
From 2010 to 2019, we signed 
52 agreements totaling nearly 
5.5 GW of renewable energy, 
representing a commitment  
of approximately $4 billion 
through 2034.  
Page	30In 2019, we matched 100% of  
the electricity consumption  
of our operations with renewable 
energy purchases for the third 
consecutive year.
Page	30Google is the world’s largest  
annual corporate purchaser  
of renewable energy, based on 
renewable electricity purchased in 
MWh. As of the end of 2019, we’d purchased a total of more than 40 million MWh of renewable energy 
through PPAs, via on-site generation,  
and from the electric grids where  
our facilities are located.
Page	3 1From 2010 to 2019, we made commitments to invest nearly 
$2.7 billion in renewable energy 
projects with an expected 
combined capacity of approximately 4.6 GW. 
Page	36
GHG	emissions
59%	decrease 	in	
cumulative 	GH G 	 emissions86%	de crease 	 
in	carbon	intensity13 years	 
of	carbon	neutrality40   
carbon	offset	projects
Since 2011, we’ve reduced our cumulative Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 59% by procuring renewable energy. 
Page	38Since 2011, our carbon intensity per unit of revenue hasdecreased by 86%. 
Page	38Google has been carbon neutral since 2007. Because of our renewable energy and carbon offset programs, our net operational carbon emissions during this period were zero.
Page	40Since 2007, we’ve partnered with more than 40 carbon offset projects to offset more than 20 million tCO
2e emissions. 
Page	40
CREATING 	SUSTAINABLE 	WORKPLACES
Certifications Water Waste
15	million	ft2  
LEED-certified29% 
LEED Platinum22	million	gallons	 
of	water	use	avoided71%
	landfill	diversion
Since 2009, over 1.4 million square meters (15 million square feet) of Google office facilities have achieved LEED certification. 
Page	4629% of our LEED-certified square footage has achieved a Platinum  rating and 56% a Gold rating. 
Page	46In 2019, we achieved a 6.5% reduction in potable water intensity at our Bay Area offices, against a 2017 baseline—
equivalent to avoiding the  
use of more than 85 million  
liters (22 million gallons) of 
potable water. 
Page	48In 2019, we reached a 71% landfill diversion rate for waste from our 
offices globally.
Page	49
Waste	(continued) Commuting
9.2	million	lbs	 
of	f ood	waste 	 prevented 	3,400 electric  
vehicle	charging 	ports43,000  tCO2e 
emissions 	saved
Since 2014, we’ve prevented 
nearly 4.2 million kilograms  
(9.2 million pounds) of waste in our cafés globally by tracking pre-consumer food waste.
Page	49To date, we’ve installed more  than 3,400 electric vehicle charging ports at our offices in the United States and Canada.
Page	50In 2019, by using Google shuttles  in the Bay Area, we saved more  
than 43,000 tCO
2e emissions—
equivalent to taking 9,342 cars  
off the road every workday.
Page	50
7
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachBUILDING 	BETTER 	DEVICES 	AND	SERVICES
GHG	emissions Materials Energy
100 %  
of	shipments 	are	
carbon neutral
As of October 2019, shipments  
of Made by Google products  to and from direct customers  
are carbon neutral.
Page	5433%  
emissions 	reduction 	 
per unit
From 2017 to 2019, we reduced 
total transportation emissions  of Google hardware products  
by 33% per unit.
Page	56100 %  
of	Nest	products 	contain	
recycled 	p lastics
In 2019, 100% of the Nest products 
we launched, including Nest Mini and Nest Wifi, were built with 
recycled plastics. 
Page	5610%–15% 
energy	savings
On average, Nest thermostats 
have proven energy savings of 10%–12% for heating and 15% for 
cooling, which means they pay  
for themselves in under two years. 
Page	58
Energy	(continued)
47billion	kWh	 
of	energy	savings
By the end of 2019, Nest thermostats 
had helped customers cumulatively 
save more than 47 billion kWh of 
energy—enough to power all of San 
Francisco’s electricity consumption 
for over eight years.
Page	5817	b illion	kWh 	 
of	energy	savings
In 2019 alone, Nest thermostats 
helped customers save more than  
17 billion kWh of energy—more 
energy than Google used in 2019.
Page	58$150	milli on	investment 	
into	renewable 	energy	projects
We’ve committed to invest  
approximately $150 million into 
renewable energy projects in  
key manufacturing regions.  
Our investment commitment,  
alongside those of our partners,  
aims to catalyze roughly $1.5 billion  
of capital into renewable energy.
Page	60
EMPOWERING 	USERS	WITH	TECHNOLOGY
Products Tools
1	billion	km 
of	transit	results	
Google Maps provides, on 
average, more than 1 billion kilometers’ (621 million miles’) 
worth of transit results per day, 
helping to limit carbon emissions 
by giving people access to mass transit options, bike routes,  
and traffic information.
Page	65120	milli on	km 	 
carpooled  
In 2019, Waze drivers and riders carpooled more than 120 million kilometers (75 million miles), 
offsetting more than 26,000 tCO
2e 
emissions—equivalent to planting 
more than 400,000 trees.
Page	6525	petabytes 	of	fr eely 	
available 	geospatial 	data	
Earth Engine has enabled tens  
of thousands of active users  
around the world to easily 
analyze over 25 petabytes 
of freely available geospatial 
information, resulting in a deeper understanding of the planet.
Page	64100	ci ties	empowered 	
with	environmental 	insights 	
In 2019, we expanded the Environmental Insights Explorer to more than 100 cities worldwide, 
empowering city planners and 
policymakers with data to help 
develop climate action plans.
Page	66
Tools	(continued)
170	milli on	rooftops 	
mapped 	with	solar	data300,000   
environmental 	pledges
By the end of 2019, Project  
Sunroof contained data for  
more than 170 million rooftops  
across 21,500 cities, helping  
users estimate the impact  
and potential savings from  
installing solar panels.
Page	6 7By the end of 2019, Your Plan, Your Planet had documented more than 300,000 pledges to reduce environmental impact through individual behavior changes.
Page	71
8
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approach2019	PROGRESS 	AGAINST 	TARGETS
Target Deadline 2019	progress Status
DESIGNING 	EFFICIENT 	DATA	CENTERS
Energy
Maintain or improve average annual fleet-wide 
PUE across Google data centers year over year.2019 (Annual)The average annual PUE for our global fleet of data centers reached a new record low of 1.10. Since 2012, our average annual fleet-wide PUE has stayed at or below 1.12, even as 
demand for our products has dramatically risen.
Page	22
Certifications
Maintain ISO 50001 energy management system 
certification for Google-owned data centers that meet certain operational milestones.2019 (Annual)
We were the first major Internet company to achieve a multi-site energy management system certification to  
ISO 50001, which we’ve maintained from 2013 to 2019.
Page	22
Waste
Achieve Zero Waste to Landfill for our global  data center operations.Not applicableOur global landfill diversion rate for data center  operations was 90%.
Page	24
ADVANCING 	CARBON-FREE 	ENERGY
Energy
Match 100% of the electricity consumption of our operations with renewable energy purchases.2019 (Annual)Our purchases of renewable energy, from sources such as wind and solar deals, produced enough renewable energy to match 100% of the electricity consumption of our data 
centers and offices for the third consecutive year.
Page	30
Operate on carbon-free energy 24/7 by 2030. 2030 This target was set in 2020.
Page	30
Enable 5 GW of new carbon-free energy in our  
key manufacturing regions by 2030. 2030 This target was set in 2020.  
Page	36
GHG	emissions
Maintain carbon neutrality for our operations. 2019 
(Annual)We purchased enough renewable energy and high-quality carbon offsets to bring our net operational carbon emissions to zero. Google has been carbon neutral  
since 2007—for 13 consecutive years.
Page	40
CREATING 	SUSTAINABLE 	WORKPLACES
Water
Reduce potable water intensity at our Bay Area offices by 5%, against a 2017 baseline, by the end of 2019.2019
In 2019, against a 2017 baseline, we achieved a 6.5% reduction in our Bay Area potable water intensity.
Page	48
 Achieved    In progress    Missed 
9
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachTarget Deadline 2019	progress Status
Commuting
Reduce single-occupancy vehicle commuting 
at our Bay Area headquarters to 45% of workers commuting on any given day.Not applicableFor our Bay Area headquarters, we’re on track to meet this commuting goal.
Page	49
Provide electric vehicle charging stations 
for 10% of total parking spaces at our  Bay Area headquarters.Not applicable
We’ve achieved a design standard of approximately  10% of parking spaces for the majority of new development projects at our Bay Area headquarters, 
and we continue to work toward achieving this  
standard for total parking spaces.
Page	49
BUILDING 	BETTER 	DEVICES 	AND	SERVICES
GHG	emissions
Achieve carbon neutrality for 100% of shipments of Made by Google products to and from Google’s direct customers by 2020.2020 As of October 2019, shipments of Made by Google products to and from direct customers are carbon neutral. 
Page	54
Publish product environmental reports for 
100% of flagship consumer hardware products launching in 2020 and beyond.2020
We published product environmental reports for each  of our flagship products in 2019.
Page	55
Materials
Use recycled or renewable material in at least  50% of plastic used across our consumer hardware product portfolio by 2025.2025
This target was set in 2020.
Page	54
Eliminate plastic from packaging and make 
packaging 100% recyclable by 2025.2025 This target was set in 2020.
Page	54
Include recycled materials in 100% of Made 
by Google products launching in 2022 and every year after.2022
In 2019, 100% of the Nest products we launched were  built with recycled plastics.
Page	56
Waste
Achieve UL 2799 Zero Waste to Landfill certification at all final assembly  
manufacturing sites by 2022. 2022
This target was set in 2020.
Page	54
EMPOWERING 	USERS	WITH	TECHNOLOGY
Tools
Help more than 500 cities and local governments globally reduce an aggregate of 1 gigaton of carbon emissions annually by 2030.2030
This target was set in 2020.
Page	6 7
Products
Offer 1 billion people new ways to live more sustainably via our core products by 2022.2022
This target was set in 2020.
Page	71
 Achieved    In progress    Missed 
10
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachMission and values
Our mission is to organize the world’s information and make it universally 
accessible and useful. Fulfilling this mission and bringing the benefits of information not just to the more than 3 billion people who are already online 
but also to the next 4 billion requires us to use resources ever more efficiently.
1 
Sustainability has been a core value from the time of Google’s founding 
in 1998, and since then, we’ve strived to build sustainability into everything we do. We have a long-standing commitment to climate action. By the end 
of our first decade, we were the first major company to be carbon neutral  
in our operations. By the end of our second decade, we were the largest annual corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the world and the first 
major company to match 100% of the annual electricity consumption of our 
global operations with purchases of renewable energy. As of the end of 2019, we’d matched 100% of our electricity consumption with renewable energy purchases for three years in a row. Our third decade of climate action will be our most ambitious yet: We’re committed to operating on carbon-free energy 
around the clock and aim to get there by 2030. 
We kicked off our third decade with an exciting achievement: As of 
September 14, 2020, we’d neutralized our entire legacy carbon footprint  
since our founding, making Google the first major company to be carbon neutral for its entire operating history.The Googleplex in Mountain View, California
11
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachIn our next decade of climate action, we’ll steadily advance toward our 
carbon-free energy goal while maintaining our current operational carbon 
neutrality commitment. We’ll test and iterate new technologies and sustainable 
tools at Google, then offer them to our partners in businesses, communities, 
and governments. We’ll also explore new ways for our products to help people make more sustainable choices.
These ambitions are reflected across our value chain. Our data centers lead 
the industry in energy efficiency by being twice as efficient as the industry average for enterprise data centers. We’ve been carbon neutral since 2007, and for the third year in a row, we’ve matched 100% of the electricity our operations use with purchases of renewables. This same ethos carries over to our workplaces, with over 1.4 million square meters (15 million square feet) of 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certified offices, and 
to our products. Whether someone is using Google at home or as part of an 
organization running Google Cloud  or Google Workspace , all the products in 
our Cloud are carbon neutral. We’re on a journey to make our tools, technology, and Made by Google consumer hardware products work for people and do 
more for the planet.
Our tools are built to help everyone reduce their environmental impact, 
understand the planet, and take sustainable action. By mapping the world’s 
forests and fisheries, our technology is making it easier for policymakers, 
researchers, and nonprofits to monitor the pulse of the planet. We’re also 
making it easier for everyone to make sustainable choices. For instance, we provide, on average, more than 1 billion kilometers (km) (621 million miles) of alternative transit options through Google Maps every day. Additionally, we’re 
helping people reduce their home energy consumption with Nest thermostats, 
which helped customers cumulatively save more than 50 billion kilowatt-hours 
(kWh) of energy by the end of March 2020—enough to light up the entire  
planet for five days. 
A global challenge
Humanity is consuming natural resources at an astonishing rate. During the 20th century, global raw material use rose at about twice the rate of population 
growth.
2 Every year, humanity consumes far more than what the planet can 
naturally replenish. In 2020, global demand for resources was 1.6 times what 
the earth’s ecosystems can regenerate in a year.3
These statistics highlight the need to rethink the “take-make-waste” economic 
model—in which we take a natural resource, make a product from it or burn it for fuel, and eventually send what remains to the landfill as waste—that human 
societies have followed since the Industrial Revolution. The consequences of this 
model have contributed to significant global challenges such as climate change, extreme weather events, and plastic pollution. We’ve been carbon 
neutral since 
2007 . 
12
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachClimate change is one of the most urgent and critical collective challenges 
facing the world today. The science behind this is clear, and recent reports 
continue to stress the urgency of the issue. In 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) released a special report addressing the 
need for rapid transition and widespread action by 2030 if we’re going to limit 
global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius and prevent the worst consequences of climate change.
4 We’re already feeling those impacts today, from historic 
wildfires in the United States and Australia to devastating flooding in many parts of the world. Given this pressing time horizon, it’s now more important 
than ever for governments, businesses, and individuals around the world 
to take immediate and ambitious action on climate change at a global scale. Meeting this challenge will require businesses, cities, and nations to decarbonize in only 10 years. 
At Google, we’ve always viewed a challenge as an opportunity to be helpful 
and make things better for everyone. However, we know that no company, no matter how ambitious, can solve a challenge like climate change alone. That’s why we’re committed to action far beyond our own operations, creating tools and investing in technologies to help build a carbon-free future for everyone. 
We believe that our scale, resources, and technological expertise can help the 
world meet its energy and resource needs in a responsible way that drives innovation and growth.A view of our planet from Google Earth
©2020 Landsat / Copernicus
13
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachOur priorities
In 2018, we undertook an assessment to identify and prioritize content for our 
environmental report that considered Google’s impacts on sustainability, the importance of environmental sustainability issues to our business strategy, 
and the perspectives of a diverse range of external stakeholders. The topic 
areas that were found to be of greatest relevance include our data centers, workplaces, users, water stewardship, circular economy strategy, and supply chain. Cutting across these priorities is the importance of engaging in public 
policy—at local, state, federal, and international levels—to support the 
success of sustainable business models. 
Google uses energy, natural resources, and products and services from 
our suppliers to build our workplaces, data centers, networking infrastructure, and consumer hardware. The software products and services that our 
customers and users rely on are powered by our data centers and networking 
infrastructure (see Figure 2). We’re driving positive environmental impact throughout our value chain in five key ways: designing efficient data centers, advancing carbon-free energy, creating sustainable workplaces, building 
better devices and services, and empowering users with technology.
Figure	2	
GOOGLE 	V ALUE 	CHAIN
Google Cloud,  
Google Workspace,  
Products, and ToolsData Centers and 
Networking InfrastructureOffices and  
Research/Development SitesConsumer Hardware, 
Devices, and Services Energy
Natural 
ResourcesManufacturing,
Construction, and
Services
Customers and Users Employees and Communities Suppliers and Communities
Ecosystems
14
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachThrough our Supplier Responsibility program, we collaborate with 
stakeholders across our supply chain to uphold our high standards for 
protecting workers and the environment. Our Supplier Code of Conduct  
builds upon Google’s core values and beliefs and incorporates key elements from the Google Code of Conduct and international human rights, safety, 
and environmental standards. We require the highest ethical standards throughout our supply chain and are working to drive positive impacts 
in the communities in which we operate.
Taking action
With millions more people coming online every month, the demand for 
computing power continues to skyrocket, and data center capacity continues to expand to meet this need. But despite this growth, the total amount of electricity used by data centers has remained relatively constant. While the amount of computing done in data centers increased by about 550% between 2010 and 2018, the amount of energy they consumed only grew by 6% during the same period.
5 As mobile device use increases and more 
IT users transition to public clouds, we believe our industry can and must do better than just holding the line on energy use. We can actually lower it, 
serving more users while using fewer resources.
Google’s energy consumption drives our biggest impact on the 
environment. As a result, we’re working toward our biggest sustainability 
moonshot yet: to source 24/7 carbon-free energy for all of our data centers 
and office campuses around the world. This means that we’ll evolve from 
matching our annual energy consumption with renewable energy to sourcing round-the-clock carbon-free energy. By 2030, we aim to run our business  on carbon-free energy everywhere, at all times. 
In 2017, we developed a climate resilience strategy , with the goal of 
enabling our business and the communities we’re part of to thrive despite the effects of climate change. This strategy is focused on a people-centric framework that’s robust, integrated, diverse, and designed with unique locations, scalability, and longevity in mind. We used this framework to 
conduct a climate-scenario analysis, assess the future resilience of our current locations, and evaluate the climate resilience of new developments. 
We report our exposure to climate-related risks over multiple time horizons  
in Alphabet’s annual CDP Climate Change Response, which we believe  
reflects the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related  
Financial Disclosures.We’re working toward 
our biggest sustainability 
moonshot yet: to source  
24/7   
carbon-free energy.
15
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachBeyond Google, we’ve long been a vocal advocate for the decarbonization 
of electrical grids worldwide. We support public policies that strengthen 
global climate action efforts through the Paris Agreement, G20, and other 
multilateral forums, as well as policies that establish emissions-reduction 
targets and technology-neutral pathways to achieve a carbon-free economy in line with the IPCC guidance and scientific consensus. We also support policies that ensure the clean energy economy provides economic growth 
for all, spurs a new generation of green jobs, benefits the communities most 
impacted by a changing climate, and leaves no one behind in the transition.  In Europe, we’re committed to supporting the EU Climate Pact, recognizing that technology will have a critical role to play in making the EU Green Deal vision a reality.
Through Google.org, we’ve funded numerous initiatives and organizations  
to support climate action, access to clean energy, and conservation.  
In 2019, Google.org launched a $4 million fund in collaboration with ICLEI,  
a global network of local governments committed to sustainability, to support nonprofits and academic institutions in Europe and Latin America that  
are leading data-driven climate action efforts. Google.org also provided  
a $500,000 grant to Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA) in the  
United States and a €500,000 grant to RE-Source in Europe to help fund the development of new purchasing models, provide training and resources 
for consumers, and enable more widespread access to clean power. In 2020, 
we launched the Google.org Impact Challenge on Climate, which commits 
€10 million to fund bold ideas that aim to use technology to accelerate Europe’s progress toward a greener, more resilient future. 
As part of our efforts to protect and restore natural ecosystems, in 2020,  
we launched a science-based reforestation program, which will plant trees on degraded lands in Australia, Spain, and the United States (California and Texas). We’re also supporting the Crowther Lab at ETH Zurich in developing a global restoration platform in collaboration with a wide network of environmental 
organizations and scientists. To further support this work, Google.org 
committed $1 million in funding to develop tools that will help increase the 
likelihood of success for ecosystem restoration projects around the world. 
Google’s AI for Social Good program and Crisis Response platforms are also 
using our technology to enhance flood-forecasting models whose predictions help individuals in affected areas better prepare and stay safe. 
We see the circular economy as a complex yet inspiring information 
challenge that, once unlocked, will lead to a world of abundance where human, environmental, and economic systems can thrive. That’s why we’re leveraging 
our scale, resources, technological expertise, and close partnerships—with 
organizations such as the Ellen MacArthur Foundation and other leading 
16
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachcompanies—to accelerate the transition to a circular economy and help 
the world meet its resource needs. In 2019, Google became a technology  
partner to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New Plastics Economy initiative 
to help support organizations in reaching the goal of ending plastic waste 
and pollution through packaging redesign and new delivery models. We also worked with Closed Loop Partners on its report that includes guidance and information on how companies can better support the recycling of plastics.
Our ambition is to maximize the reuse of finite resources across our 
operations, products, and supply chains and enable others to do the same. We’re applying our circular economy principles to design out waste, keep products and materials in use, and promote healthy materials and safe  
chemistry . We strive to embed these principles across our infrastructure, 
operations, and products—from how we manage servers in our data centers 
to how we design our consumer hardware to the materials we select to build 
and furnish our offices. As we work toward this, we’ll continue exploring the role of technology and artificial intelligence (AI) in accelerating our transition to becoming a circular Google that contributes to a sustainable world. 
Water is another top priority. The United Nations predicts that by 2025,  
two-thirds of the world’s population could live in water-stressed conditions, and with the existing climate change scenario, almost half the world’s population will be living in areas of high water stress by 2030.
6 As a global 
company headquartered in drought-prone California, we’ve established a set of water principles to guide our approach to water use and ensure business 
Colorful pipes send and receive water to 
cool our data center in The Dalles, Oregon.
17
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachcontinuity, especially in the places where we have the greatest potential risk. 
Under these principles, we’re working to utilize water efficiently, exploring ways to incorporate circularity, and engaging in partnerships that use Google 
technology to raise awareness of water-related risks and opportunities 
and to create platforms that help everyone study and understand global water challenges. 
Our sustainability goals, such as committing to match the electricity use 
for our operations with 100% renewable energy, not only are good for the environment but also make good business sense. By purchasing electricity from renewable sources like wind and solar via long-term contracts, we can reduce emissions while keeping energy costs known and manageable. 
In 2020, we issued $5.75 billion in sustainability bonds—the largest 
sustainability or green bond issuance by any company in history—to fund  
new and ongoing projects that are environmentally or socially responsible.  
As outlined in Alphabet’s Sustainability Bond Framework, our sustainability 
bonds will support investment in environmental and social initiatives, including energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular 
economy and design, affordable housing, commitment to racial equity, and  
support for small businesses and COVID-19 response. Although a number of companies have issued green bonds (directed solely to environmental uses), sustainability bonds differ in that their proceeds support investment in both 
environmental and social initiatives. Such bonds are an emerging asset class, 
and we hope this transaction will help develop this new market.
Looking toward future opportunities
We believe that global businesses like Google should lead the way in improving people’s lives while reducing or even eliminating our dependence on raw materials and fossil fuels. And we believe this can be done in a way 
that makes business sense, providing economic returns alongside societal 
benefits and positive environmental impacts. 
Planning for the future, we’ve established a five-year strategy that 
will enable us to continue building sustainability into everything we do 
(see Figure 3). Our strategy focuses on three key pillars: accelerating the transition to carbon-free energy and a circular economy, empowering 
everyone with technology, and benefiting the people and places where we operate. We continue to work to decouple our business growth from the 
growth of material use and carbon intensity. We want Google technologies, 
platforms, products, and services to enable everyone to tackle major sustainability problems and drive net-positive impact through carbon-emissions reductions, energy savings, and sustainable resource use.  
We also want to ensure that we’re implementing practices to add value  
to the communities of our facilities, users, partners, and suppliers.In 2020, we issued 
$5.75 billion   
in sustainability bonds— 
the largest sustainability  
or green bond issuance  by any company in history.
18
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachCreating Google tools that help people measure the planet’s health 
and take action is a key part of our long-term strategy. Applications of AI 
and machine learning are increasingly enabling not only Google but also 
scientists and practitioners to create sustainable solutions and turn data into 
the insights and knowledge needed to guide better decision-making. We’re excited to continue exploring how these technologies and applications can be used to create a more sustainable future for generations to come, 
and we’re committed to responsibly using these technologies. 
Changing the course on climate will require collective determination to act. 
We’re optimistic that by harnessing new technologies, investing in the right 
infrastructure and tools, and empowering partners, nonprofits, and people, this can be the most decisive decade for climate action yet. The next 10 years 
will provide the springboard for further progress. We’re proud to do our part 
and help move the world closer to a carbon-free future for all. 
LEARN	MORE
• Website: 	Alphabet 	Investor 	Relations: 	S ustainability 	 and 	 Related 	 Information
• Website: 	Google’s 	Mission, 	V alues 	 & 	C ommitments
• Website: 	Google’s 	Mission, 	V alues 	 & 	C ommitments: 	 Reports
• Website: 	Supplier 	Responsibility
• Website: 	Sustainability
• Website: 	Sustainability: 	ReportsFigure	3	
FIVE-YEAR 	SUS TAINABILITY 	S TRATEGY 	O VERVIEW
We strive to build sustainability into everything we do
Empower 	with	 
technology
Tackle major sustainability problems 
and drive net-positive impact using 
Google technologies, platforms, 
products, and servicesAccelerate carbon-free  
and circular 
Decouple business growth 
from the growth of carbon 
intensity and material use Benefit	people	 
and	places
Share benefits with the  
communities of our facilities,  
users, partners, and suppliers
19
Google Environmental Report 2020 Our approachDesigning 
efficient 
data centers
20
Google Environmental Report 202020 Google Environmental Report 2020Introduction
Google’s data centers are the heart of our company, powering products  
like Gmail, Google Cloud, Search, and YouTube for billions of people around 
the world, 24/7. At the end of 2019, we had 19 operational campuses across  
21 data center locations7 on four continents, as well as 20 Google Cloud 
regions . We continue to add new sites to better serve our users and 
customers. By investing in our data center locations, we help support the  local communities where we operate, providing economic development,  
job creation, educational programs, and environmental and cultural projects.
Each data center is a campus where the majority of our facilities, servers, 
networking equipment, and cooling systems are designed from the ground up for maximum efficiency and minimal environmental impact. For more 
than a decade, we’ve worked to make Google data centers some of the most efficient in the world, improving their environmental performance even as demand for our products has dramatically risen. We’ve done this by designing, building, and operating each one to maximize efficient use 
of energy, water, and materials. 
These efforts have made our cloud the cleanest, most energy efficient 
in the industry. This means that customers who migrate to Google Cloud  
can take advantage of advanced computing technologies while reducing their operations’ environmental impact via our carbon-neutral cloud,  
helping them to achieve their own sustainability goals. 
Energy efficiency
A study published in 2020 showed that while the amount of computing 
done in global data centers increased by about 550% between 2010 and 2018, the amount of energy consumed by data centers grew by only 6%  
during the same period.
8 So while data centers now power more applications 
for more people than ever before, they still account for about 1% of global electricity consumption—the same proportion as in 2010.
9 
Our long-standing data center efficiency efforts are more important 
than ever because our data centers represent the vast majority of our 
electricity use. To reduce energy use, we strive to build the world’s most 
energy-efficient computing network by squeezing more out of every watt of power we consume. First, we outfit each data center with high-performance servers that we’ve custom-designed to use as little energy as possible. 
We improve facility energy use by installing smart temperature and lighting 
controls and redesigning how power is distributed to reduce energy loss.  BY	THE	NUMBERS
2X
as energy efficient
On average, a Google data center 
is twice as energy efficient as a 
typical enterprise data center.
1.10  
average annual PUE
In 2019, the average annual PUE 
across our global fleet of data 
centers reached a new record  
low of 1.10, compared with  
the industry average of 1.67—
meaning that Google data  
centers use about six times  
less overhead energy.
7X 
as much  
computing power
Compared with five years ago,  
we now deliver around seven 
times as much computing  
power with the same amount  
of electrical power. 
90 % 
of waste diverted
In 2019, we diverted 90% of 
waste from our global data center 
operations away from landfills.
21
Google Environmental Report 2020 Designing efficient data centersWe employ advanced cooling techniques, relying primarily on energy-efficient 
evaporative cooling, and use non-potable water at some sites. At some sites, we also reuse waste heat generated by our servers to heat our data center office  
spaces and other on-site facilities. Finally, we’re applying machine learning to drive energy efficiency even further and automatically optimize cooling.
Our efforts have paid off: On average, a Google data center is twice as 
energy efficient as a typical enterprise data center.
10 Compared with five  
years ago, we now deliver around seven times as much computing power with the same amount of electrical power. Much of this improvement has 
come from new innovations with accelerators, such as our Tensor Processing 
Units (TPUs)—highly efficient computer chips we designed specifically for machine learning applications.
In 2019, the average annual power usage effectiveness (PUE)
11 for our global 
fleet of data centers reached a new record low of 1.10, compared with the industry average of 1.67
12—meaning that Google data centers use about six 
times less overhead energy (10%) for every unit of IT equipment energy (see Figure 4). We aim to maintain or improve our average annual fleet-wide PUE 
across Google data centers year over year. Our average annual fleet-wide  
PUE has stayed at or below 1.12 since 2012 (see Figure 5).
13 
In 2013, we became the first company in North America—and the only 
major internet company—to achieve a multi-site energy management system certification to ISO 50001, a voluntary third-party standard. Our energy Google’s data center in Hamina, Finland
22
Google Environmental Report 2020 Designing efficient data centersmanagement system covers select Google-owned data centers once 
they meet certain operational milestones. As of 2020, we have maintained our ISO 50001 certification for our operational European data centers.
Google has saved more than $1 billion through our energy-efficiency 
initiatives and hundreds of millions more through resource efficiency. By sharing our findings and best practices and supporting research and collaborations, we hope to help other companies realize their own 
savings and promote ever-greater data center sustainability worldwide. 
We’ll also continue to develop and commercialize new software, such as machine learning tools and carbon-intelligent computing, that can help better match real-time carbon-free energy supply with energy demand.10%Figure	4
OVERHEAD 	ENERGY 	USE 	 IN 	GO OGLE 	 DATA 	CENTERS
  Overhead energy as % of IT energy
2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20191520PERCENT
010
Figure	5
FLEET-WIDE 	PUE	A CROSS 	GO OGLE 	 DATA 	CENTERS
     Quarterly PUE        Trailing 12-month PUE
1.10
1.09
2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020PUE1.24
1.20
1.16
1.12
1.08
0
23
Google Environmental Report 2020 Designing efficient data centersEmbedding circularity
We’re also working to design out waste by embedding circular economy 
principles into our server management and reusing materials multiple times. In 2019, 19% of components used for machine upgrades were refurbished 
inventory. When we can’t find a new use for our equipment, we completely 
erase any components that stored data and then recycle or resell them. In 2019, we resold nearly 9.9 million units into the secondary market for reuse by other organizations. 
We’re committed to achieving Zero Waste to Landfill for our global data 
center operations by reducing the amount of waste we generate and finding better disposal options. In 2019, we diverted 90% of waste from our global data center operations away from landfills. Our approach is based on the UL Environmental Claim Validation Procedure for Zero Waste to Landfill,  
which stipulates that when waste leaves our operating data centers, none  of it goes to a landfill—100% is diverted to more sustainable pathways, with no more than 10% going to a waste-to-energy facility unless waste to energy can be proved more valuable than alternative diversion paths. Some waste 
cannot be diverted away from landfills for regulatory reasons.
As part of our water stewardship efforts, we’re working to utilize water 
more efficiently and exploring ways to incorporate circularity. We have a 
site-specific approach where we work within the constraints of the local hydrological environment to find the best solutions. Examples of sustainable 
water management practices in our data centers include the use of innovative 
cooling options where possible, such as seawater in Finland, industrial canal water in Belgium, and recycled wastewater in the United States at our site in Douglas County, Georgia. In Ireland, we optimize water use by employing 
cooling using outside air. We also recirculate water within our system multiple 
times to get more out of every drop we use.
Economic impact
Google’s investment in digital infrastructure, such as data centers, supports sustainable growth and creates economic opportunity. In 2016, Google’s U.S. data centers generated $1.3 billion in economic activity, $750 million in labor 
income, and 11,000 jobs.
14 In 2019, we announced a $600 million investment in 
our data center in Pryor, a town in Mayes County, Oklahoma.
From 2007 to 2018, Google’s data center investments in Europe supported 
economic activity, with €730 million per year in gross domestic product (GDP) 
and 9,600 full-time equivalent (FTE) jobs per year, on average.15 In Finland, our In 2019, we diverted
90 % of waste 
from our global data 
center operations 
away from landfills.
24
Google Environmental Report 2020 Designing efficient data centersdata center has brought €1.2 billion in investment and supported 1,700 jobs 
every year since 2009.16 During construction of our Denmark data center, we 
spent over €600 million and supported 2,600 jobs,17 and in the Netherlands, 
we’ve directly invested €2.5 billion since 2014.18 We’ve long worked with local 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in our data center communities and have donated millions to important initiatives in Europe, including skills 
training in cooperation with local colleges and universities.
In the next five years, we expect to anchor €2 billion in new carbon-free 
energy generation projects and green infrastructure in Europe, helping to 
develop new technologies to make round-the-clock carbon-free energy 
cheaper and more widely available. We’re proud to invest in Europe’s digital 
infrastructure, contribute to the local communities we operate in, and support Europe’s green transition.
Carbon-neutral cloud
Google operates the cleanest, most energy-efficient hyperscale cloud services in the industry. This is a result of our ongoing energy-efficiency efforts, matching 100% of our electricity with purchases of renewable energy 
since 2017, and our carbon neutrality commitment. Google Cloud is the only 
major cloud provider to purchase enough renewable energy to cover our entire operations. And in 2020, we set our most ambitious energy goal yet: to run our business on carbon-free energy everywhere, at all times, by 2030. 
We’re the first cloud provider to make this commitment, and we intend to  
be the first to achieve it.
A look behind the server aisle at our data 
center in Mayes County, Oklahoma
25
Google Environmental Report 2020 Designing efficient data centersAs the pace of digital transformation has accelerated, organizations 
have migrated infrastructure and applications to the cloud to achieve cost 
efficiencies, improve performance, and reduce environmental impact.  
Google Cloud and Google Workspace products like Gmail, Docs, and Drive are enabling millions of businesses to shift their computing needs from self-managed data centers or colocation facilities to Google Cloud’s highly efficient computing infrastructure, which includes 100% renewable energy matching. 
Businesses that switch to cloud-based products like Google Workspace 
(formerly G Suite) have reported reductions in IT energy use and carbon emissions up to 87%,
19 and a business using Gmail can reduce the greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions impact of its email service by up to 98%, compared with running email via on-premises servers.
20 Individual users also benefit, 
since providing an active user with one month of Google services creates 
fewer GHG emissions than driving a car one mile—and these emissions 
are neutralized as part of our operational carbon neutrality commitment. 
Whether someone is using Google at home or as part of an organization running Google Cloud or Google Workspace, all products in our Cloud are carbon neutral. This means that our Google Cloud customers benefit from a net-zero operational carbon footprint associated with running their 
workloads on our infrastructure, and everyone using our products can rest 
assured that our data centers have caused net-zero carbon emissions  
for our planet.
Supporting partners
Switching to Google Cloud can help customers accelerate progress  
toward their own sustainability targets. We’re developing tools to help our customers measure the impact of migrating to Google Cloud, report on their 
emissions, and reduce them. For example, National Geographic Partners 
migrated its entire image library application from its data center to Google Cloud to improve the security and management of the collection. Moving to Google Cloud reduced energy and emissions of the image collection by 
approximately 62%.
Google Cloud is working with customers to help everyone get closer 
to achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We’ve 
partnered with customers to use Google technology to minimize wasteful  
packaging, detect damage  in annual wind turbine inspections, and analyze  
camera trap images to make faster decisions on wildlife conservation efforts.
As organizations work to improve the environmental impact of their 
operations, Google Cloud technologies can help them innovate. For instance,  
customers have used BigQuery to reduce food waste by analyzing product  
demand and optimizing supply. Others have leveraged BigQuery, BigQuery GIS,  All products in our Cloud are 
carbon neutral.
26
Google Environmental Report 2020 Designing efficient data centersand Google Cloud to enable hyperlocal air-quality sensing on municipal 
vehicles and have used Google Cloud to design routing software, reducing fuel consumption.
We also work with partners to use our technology to improve lives and 
do more for the planet. In 2019, Google Cloud partnered with SAP to host Circular Economy 2030—a sustainability contest for social entrepreneurs—  
and announced the five finalists during the Google Cloud Next ’19 conference. 
Google Cloud technology has also been used to measure environmental  
impact and help create an environmental data platform to enable more 
responsible sourcing decisions in the fashion industry. 
In 2020, we collaborated on the first commercial application of Google   
Cloud and Google Earth Engine for sustainable commodity sourcing. Through 
the Google Cloud Public Datasets  Program and the U.S. National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Big Data Program, Google Cloud 
will host 5 petabytes of NOAA’s environmental data across our products—including BigQuery, Cloud Storage , Google Earth Engine, and Kaggle —to help 
researchers, innovators, and organizations analyze data to tackle a range of 
environmental challenges. 
We’re exploring ways to scale up AI and machine learning efficiency 
solutions for buildings, data centers, and facilities. Google Cloud and 
DeepMind have developed an Industrial Adaptive Controls platform to deliver 
machine learning–enabled energy savings on a global scale by autonomously 
controlling heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems in commercial buildings, data centers, and industrial facilities. We’re making these solutions available to the largest industrial enterprises and building-management software providers. 
These are just a few examples of the many organizations leveraging 
Google Cloud technology to do more for the planet. Millions of partners use this technology and other Google services. We’re humbled by this unique opportunity to enable universal action and offer organizations the information 
and solutions they need to create a sustainable future.
LEARN	MORE
• 2016	case	study:	Circular 	Economy 	at	W ork 	 in 	G oogle 	 Data 	C enters
• 2018	spotlight: 	Once	Is	Never	Enough
• 2018	spotlight: 	Positive 	Energy:	Belgian	Site Becomes 	First	G oogle   
Data Center t o Add On-site	Solar
• 2018	spotlight: 	Putting	Down	Local	Roots	Wher e 	G oogle’s 	 European   
Data	C enters 	Ar e 	G rowing
• Website: 	Google	C loud: 	Sustainability
• Website: 	Google	C loud 	 Next: 	S ustainability 	Sho wcase
• Website: 	Google	Data	C enters: 	 Efficiency
27
Google Environmental Report 2020 Designing efficient data centersSpotlight
Developing a carbon-intelligent 
computing platform
Our data centers deliver our products to billions of people around the world 
every day. To achieve our 24/7 carbon-free energy goal, our data centers  
need to work more closely with carbon-free energy sources like solar and  
wind. However, wind and solar power don’t work in all places at all times,  
and the intermittency creates complex challenges for optimization. 
To tackle this problem, a small team of engineers at Google developed 
a carbon-intelligent computing platform, which we announced in April 2020.
This  first-of-its-kind system was deployed at our hyperscale data centers to 
shift the timing of many non-urgent compute tasks—creating new filter features on Google Photos, processing YouTube videos, or adding new words to Google Translate—to times when low-carbon power sources, like wind and solar,  
are most plentiful. 
Early results demonstrate that carbon-aware load shifting works, and our pilot 
suggests that by shifting compute jobs, we can increase the amount of lower-carbon energy we consume and reduce the electrical grid’s carbon footprint.
Looking to the future of the platform, the team is already thinking about 
how to shift compute load in both time and location to maximize the reduction 
in grid-level carbon emissions and complete more work when and where doing 
so is more environmentally friendly.
We hope that our findings inspire other organizations so that together we 
can continue to accelerate innovation in energy technologies and enable 
the  transition to carbon-free electricity worldwide.
Modular cooling units at Google’s data 
center in Mayes County, Oklahoma
28
Google Environmental Report 2020 Designing efficient data centersAdvancing 
carbon-free 
energy
29
Google Environmental Report 2020Introduction
Running our business requires us to use a lot of electricity to power our data 
centers, offices, and other infrastructure. And combating climate change requires the world to transition to a clean energy economy. So we’ve made 
it a top priority to become more energy efficient and to annually match 
every unit of energy we consume at our facilities around the world with an equivalent unit of energy from renewable sources, such as wind and solar. Now we’re going even further: By 2030, we’re aiming to run our business 
on carbon-free energy everywhere, at all times. 
We want to work toward a world where everyone has access to renewable 
energy, including our suppliers and their communities. Our renewable energy 
investments help increase access to clean energy while bringing benefits in the form of jobs and economic activity to communities where the projects 
are developed and built.
Our support for clean energy goes hand in hand with reducing our carbon 
footprint. By improving the efficiency of our operations and buying both 
renewable power and high-quality carbon offsets, we’ve been carbon 
neutral since 2007.
Our energy journey
Google is the world’s largest annual corporate purchaser of renewable 
energy, based on renewable electricity purchased in MWh. From 2010 to 2019, we signed 52 agreements to purchase nearly 5.5 gigawatts (GW)  
of renewable energy capacity that’s new to the grid (see Figure 6).  
This represents a commitment of approximately $4 billion to purchase  
clean energy through 2034.
Matching 100% renewable energy
In 2012, we set a long-term goal to purchase enough renewable energy  
to match all the electricity we consume globally on an annual basis. In 2017, we achieved it, becoming the first company of our size to match  our total 
annual electricity consumption with purchases of energy from sources like solar and wind. In 2018, we did it again. In 2019, for a third consecutive year, we matched 100% of the annual electricity used by our global operations—including offices, data centers, and networking infrastructure—with 
renewable energy (see Figure 7). This amounted to more than 12 million 
megawatt-hours (MWh) of energy in 2019 alone—more electricity than  
the state of Maine uses annually.
21 BY	THE	NUMBERS
5.5 GW 
of renewable energy
From 2010 to 2019, we signed 
52 agreements totaling nearly 
5.5 GW of renewable energy, 
representing a commitment 
of approximately $4 billion 
through 2034.
100 % 
renewable energy
In 2019, we matched 100% of 
the electricity consumption of 
our operations with renewable energy purchases for the third consecutive year.
$2.7 billion  
in investment 
commitments
From 2010 to 2019, we made 
commitments to invest nearly 
$2.7 billion in renewable 
energy projects with an expected combined capacity  of approximately 4.6 GW.
13 years  
of carbon neutrality
Google has been carbon 
neutral since 2007. Because 
of our renewable energy and carbon offset programs, our net operational carbon emissions during this period were zero. 
30
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energy  Wind       Solar400 MW
MW 200 
MW 100 
In 2019, we took another big step by making the biggest corporate 
purchase  of renewable energy at the time.22 This purchase was made up of a 
1.6 GW package of agreements and featured 18 new energy deals spanning 
the globe, including investments in Chile, the United States, and Europe. 
Together, these deals increased our worldwide portfolio of wind and solar agreements by more than 40%. As of the end of 2019, we’d purchased a cumulative total of more than 40 million MWh of renewable energy. As of September 2019, Google’s more than 50 long-term contracts to purchase 
renewable energy had resulted in more than $7 billion in new capital 
investment in renewable energy projects worldwide.
23
We achieved our 100% renewable energy match primarily by buying 
renewable electricity directly from new wind and solar farms via long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) on the grids where we operate, as well as 
by buying renewable power through utilities via renewable energy purchasing 
models that we helped create. With our PPAs, we’re purchasing physical renewable energy, which includes the electrons bundled with renewable energy certificates. Figure	6	
RENEWABLE 	ENERGY 	FOR	GO OGLE’S 	OPERA TIONS
From 2010 to 2019, Google signed 52 agreements 
across four continents to purchase nearly 5.5 GW of renewable energy that is new to the grid.
31
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energyWe’re the first company of our size to achieve a 100% renewable energy 
match three years running.24 While we’re still drawing power from the grid, 
some of which is from carbon-emitting resources, we’re purchasing enough 
renewable energy to match every megawatt-hour of electricity our data 
center and office operations consume annually on a global basis. We procure 
renewable energy through our PPA contracts, via on-site renewable energy generation, and from renewable energy in the electric grids where our facilities are located.
25 Our ultimate vision is to create a world where everyone, 
including our suppliers and their communities, has access to clean energy.
Increasing access to clean energy
Even though our data centers use a lot of energy, Google as a whole consumes a very small percentage of global electricity. Thus, in addition to focusing on our own energy efficiency and clean energy usage, we're also 
working to help others do the same. By pioneering new energy purchasing 
models that others can follow, we’ve helped drive wide-scale adoption of clean energy. For example, we joined forces with Walmart, Target, and Johnson & Johnson in Georgia to help build a state-approved program that 
allows companies to buy renewable energy directly through the state’s Figure	7
RENEWABLE 	ENERGY 	PURCHASING 	C OMPARED  
WITH	T OTAL 	 ELECTRICITY 	USE
  Total electricity consumption       Renewable energy %   TERAWATT-HOURS
2012 201135%
201337%
201448%
201561%
2016100%
2017100%
201812.2
100%
2019  10 —
  8 —
  6 —
  4 —
  2 —  12 —
034%
32
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energylargest utility. The program is the first of its kind in Georgia and has paved the 
way for the construction of two solar energy projects with a total capacity of 177 megawatts (MW), 78.8 MW of which will be procured for Google.
Also in the Southeast region of the United States, we worked with the   
Tennessee Valley Authority to sign a utility-based agreement in which Google will purchase the output of several new solar farms, totaling 413 MW of power from 1.6 million solar panels—equivalent to the combined size of 
65,000 home rooftop solar systems. Thanks to the abundant solar power generated by these new farms, electricity consumed by our new data centers  
in Tennessee and Alabama was matched in 2019 with 100% renewable energy from the outset. And in 2019, we signed a contract for the world’s largest  
solar-plus-storage project with Nevada utility NV Energy.
Our renewable energy initiatives in the United States earned Google a 
2019 Green Power Leadership Award as Green Power Partner of the Year from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Also in 2019, Alphabet ranked number one on the Carbon Clean 200, a list of publicly traded companies leading the transition to a clean energy future. 
We’re also helping to green the power grid by advocating for clean  
energy policies and supporting renewable energy procurement programs.  For example, we worked with business and government stakeholders in Taiwan to share our experience with the benefits of corporate renewable 
energy purchasing and to support the creation of new purchasing channels for companies. We were pleased to see that Taiwan passed a law in January 2017 to allow end users to directly purchase renewable energy for their operations. In January 2019, we announced our inaugural renewable energy  
deal  in Asia, the first such corporate PPA in Taiwan. We’ll purchase the output 
of a 10 MW solar array, which is part of a larger solar farm, in Tainan City.  It will deploy 40,000 solar panels across commercial fishing ponds, maximizing land-use efficiency and benefiting local aquaculture workers.  
This will boost the carbon-free profile of our local data center. 
We continue to experiment with a broader array of new models to simplify 
and expand renewable energy purchasing. In 2019, we ran our first-ever 
reverse auctions  for wind and solar projects in an attempt to streamline 
our renewable energy procurement process. As we move toward our own long-term aspiration of sourcing round-the-clock carbon-free energy, 
we anticipate using similar innovative approaches to source a variety of carbon-free energy products at scale. 
For example, in January 2020, Google forged a partnership with Sembcorp 
Industries to purchase energy generated from rooftop solar installations of 
nearly 500 public housing blocks in Singapore. Under a private collaboration 
with Sembcorp’s power retail arm, Sembcorp Power, and its solar-development arm, Sembcorp Solar, the excess solar power generated from these rooftop In 2019, we announced our
1st renewable  
energy deal  
in Asia, the first such 
corporate PPA in Taiwan.
33
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energyinstallations is exported into the national grid, which then goes into the 
electricity supply of our operations. This deal pioneers the seamless integration of solar power directly into an existing power supply, which we 
hope will contribute to making carbon-free energy more widely accessible 
in Singapore and beyond. 
Creating a carbon-free energy system in which any organization has 
access to a simple and cost-effective marketplace is achievable only 
through large-scale, coordinated action—and we know we can’t do it alone. 
In 2019, Google helped lead the establishment of REBA, the world’s largest organization of corporate renewable energy buyers. As a founding member of REBA, we’re leading an effort to bring together more than 200 renewable energy buyers, developers, and service providers to pave the way for any 
company to access and purchase renewable energy. Collectively, this group 
has committed to purchasing 60 GW of renewable energy by 2025; that’s 
approximately three times the amount of solar and wind capacity installed in the United States in 2019. Google currently chairs the Board of REBA. 
In Europe, we helped launch the RE-Source Platform, a broad coalition 
of companies and NGOs working to accelerate corporate purchasing of renewables. In 2019, the European Commission published a case study  on 
Google’s renewable energy purchasing in Europe—where, as of June 2019, we’d signed 24 PPAs totaling 1.7 GW of wind and solar power capacity, 
enabling more than €2.3 billion in investment.
26 This case study helps 
demonstrate corporate PPAs’ important contribution to achieving climate 
and energy goals, and we’ll continue working toward accelerating Europe’s  
clean energy transition. 
24/7 carbon-free energy
In 2018, we announced a new long-term ambition: sourcing carbon-free 
energy for our operations 24/7. This means that we’ll evolve from matching our annual energy consumption with renewable energy to sourcing carbon-
free energy around the clock. For example, we matched 100% of our annual 
global electricity consumption with renewable energy in 2019, but on an hourly basis, only 61% of our data center electricity use was matched with 
regional carbon-free sources.
As one step toward this goal, in 2018, DeepMind and Google started   
using machine learning to make wind power more predictable and valuable.   
We used machine learning to optimize 700 MW of wind power capacity 
in the Central United States that’s part of our global fleet of renewable 
energy projects. By predicting wind power output 36 hours ahead of actual 
generation, our model recommends how to make optimal hourly delivery commitments to the power grid a full day in advance. This is important Google’s renewable energy 
purchasing in Europe has 
enabled more than  
€2.3 billion  
in investment.
34
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energybecause energy sources that can deliver a set amount of electricity at  
a set time are more valuable to the grid. Machine learning has boosted the 
value of our wind energy by roughly 20%, compared with a baseline scenario  
of no advance commitments to the grid.
In 2020, building on what we’d learned and due to the transformation 
underway in the global energy system, we set a deadline for our carbon-free energy goal: By 2030, Google intends to run on carbon-free energy 24/7—
everywhere, at all times. We aim to bring clean energy to all our data centers 
and office campuses around the world in a way that eliminates our emissions and accelerates a global energy transition. This is our biggest sustainability moonshot yet, with enormous practical and technical complexity (see Figure 8). We’re the first major company to commit to sourcing 24/7 carbon-free energy 
for our operations, and we aim to be the first to achieve it.
To get there, we need to integrate new technologies, such as battery 
storage, into our portfolio. In Belgium, we’ll soon install the first-ever  
battery-based system for replacing generators at a hyperscale data center. 
In the event of a power disruption, the system will help keep our users’ 
searches, emails, and videos on the move—without the pollution associated 
with burning diesel. Our project in Belgium is a first step that we hope will lay the groundwork for a big vision: a world in which backup systems at data centers go from climate change problems to critical components in carbon-
free energy systems.
Figure	8	
GOOGLE’S 	THREE 	 DECADES 	OF 	CLIMA TE 	A CTION
Carbon neutrality
In 2007, we achieved carbon  
neutrality by purchasing enough 
renewable energy and high-quality 
carbon offsets to bring our net 
operational emissions to zero, which 
we’ve maintained each year since. FIRST	DECADE
Since	2007
100% renewable energy
Starting in 2017, we’ve procured 
enough renewable energy to match 
every megawatt-hour of electricity our 
operations consume annually, though 
we’re still drawing some carbon-
emitting power from the grid.SECOND 	DECADE
Since	2017
24/7 carbon-free energy
By 2030, we aim to source carbon-free 
energy from the same regional grids 
where we operate—24 hours a day, 
seven days a week, 365 days a year.THIRD	DECADE
By	2030
CHALLENGING MOST	CHALLEN GING
35
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energyInvesting in renewable energy
Along with being the world’s largest annual corporate purchaser of renewable 
energy, Google is also one of the largest corporate investors in renewable energy. From 2010 to 2020, Google made commitments to invest nearly 
$3.3 billion in renewable energy projects with an expected combined capacity 
of approximately 8.7 GW. These targeted investments are beyond our own operational footprint and are expected to result in more than $15 billion of investment in renewable energy projects when including capital invested 
by partners (both equity and debt). 
As of December 2019, we’d made commitments to invest nearly $2.7 billion 
in renewable energy projects with an expected combined capacity of 4.6 GW.  
In 2020, we made the commitment to invest in and help deploy 5 GW of 
new clean energy by 2030 in our key supply chain regions (which includes 
our previous commitments  of renewable energy in our key manufacturing 
regions), bringing our combined commitments to 8.7 GW. Once online, this  
5 GW supply chain commitment will avoid global emissions equivalent to taking 
more than 1 million cars off the road each year and catalyze the additional 
investment of more than $5 billion in new wind, solar, and other clean energy 
technologies. Our long-term vision is for all our suppliers, direct and indirect, and their communities to have access to reliable, cost-effective, carbon-free energy—but we can get there only through significant global investment in new  
wind, solar, and other clean energy capacity as well as more robust grid systems. 
Investment is a scalable approach to drive system-level change and grid 
decarbonization and to enable greater access to carbon-free energy. This is especially impactful in markets where credible carbon-free energy procurement mechanisms and available capital are both limited. 
Investing in renewable energy also makes good business sense, given that 
the cost of renewable power has dropped precipitously, while its scale has grown dramatically. From 2009 to 2019, levelized costs for utility-scale wind and solar energy decreased by 70% and 89%, respectively.
27 In 2015, wind 
and solar energy became the world’s largest source of new installed power capacity,
28 and in 2019, 75% of net new power capacity globally came from 
renewable energy.29 Renewables are expected to account for 95% of the net 
increase in global power capacity through 2025.30 
Increasing the share of renewables on the grid will produce many positive 
impacts. For example, doubling renewables by 2030 is expected to increase 
global GDP by as much as 1.1%, improve global welfare by 3.7%, and employ 
more than 24 million people in the renewable energy sector.31 Greening the 
energy supply by 2035 in the United States alone would avoid over $1.2 trillion in  
health and environmental costs through 2050.32 At Google, we’ll continue to  
work to accelerate the transition to clean energy and a more prosperous future.From 2010 to 2020,  
Google made commitments  
beyond our own operational 
footprint to invest nearly  
$3.3 billion  
in renewable energy projects.
36
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energyOur carbon footprint
We began calculating our annual carbon footprint in 2006. Every year since 
2009, we’ve publicly reported the results to CDP, a global organization that asks companies to disclose information on their GHG emissions performance 
and management. For seven consecutive years, we’ve earned a spot on CDP’s 
Climate Change A List, which recognizes top reporting companies—in 2020, only 5% of companies scored by CDP made the A List.
In 2019, our total Scope 1 and 2 (location-based) GHG emissions
33  
were nearly 5.2 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e),34 
but because of our renewable energy purchases, our total Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) GHG emissions were reduced by 4.3 million tons to 860,000 
tCO
2e. This reduction due to procuring renewable energy lowered our total 
operational emissions from over 5.7 million tCO2e (location-based) to  
1.4 million tCO2e (market-based) (see Figures 9 and 10). Growth in our 
business led to a 16% increase in operational emissions over the past year.35 
After accounting for our high-quality carbon offset purchases, our net 
operational carbon emissions were zero.
  Scope 1       Scope 2 (location-based)       Scope 2 (market-based)       Scope 3 (business travel and commuting)
  Total (location-based)       Total (market-based)Figure	10
GHG	EMISSIONS 	WITH 	 RENEWABLE  
ENERGY 	PURCHASES
 2011    2012  2013 2014  2015  2016     2017  2018  20191.4Figure	9
GHG	EMISSIONS 	WITH OUT 	 RENEWABLE 	 
ENERGY 	PURCHASES
 2011   2012  2013  2014  2015  2016    2017    2018 20195.7MILLION tCO2e
0246
37
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energySince 2011, our renewable energy purchasing has resulted in emissions 
savings of over 15 million tCO2e—a cumulative 59% reduction in our Scope 1 
and 2 emissions over this period (see Figure 11). This is equivalent to taking 
more than 3 million cars off the road for a year, or the carbon sequestered by 
more than 19.6 million acres of U.S. forests in a year.36 In 2019, our operational 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions were 83% lower due to our renewable 
energy procurement.
Because of our emissions-reduction efforts, our carbon intensity has   
steadily decreased even as our company has grown and our energy use  
has correspondingly increased. Since 2011, our carbon intensity per unit of revenue decreased by 86% (see Figure 12), our carbon intensity per FTE 
employee decreased by 85% (see Figure 13), and our carbon intensity of  
total energy consumed dropped by 87%.
37 This means we’re delivering our 
products and services with reduced carbon impacts even before using  
carbon offsets to reach neutrality.
Carbon neutrality
In 2007, Google committed to being carbon neutral, and we’ve met this goal 
every year since then. We reach carbon neutrality via three steps. First, we work to reduce our total energy consumption by pursuing aggressive energy-
efficiency initiatives. Second, we match 100% of the electricity consumption of 
our operations with purchases of renewable energy. Third, we buy high-quality carbon offsets for any remaining emissions we haven’t yet eliminated.
38El Romero solar farm in Chile (80 MW for Google)
38
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energyFigure	13
CARBON 	INTENSITY 	PER	FTE	EMPLOYEE
  Carbon intensity      Average number of FTE employees
108.2
7.96tCO2e / FTE
THOUSAND FTEs— 100 
— 75 
— 50 
— 25 
 0 — 125 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20194060
020Figure	11
IMPACT 	OF 	 RENEWABLE 	 ENERGY 	 PURCHASES 	ON 	CUMULA TIVE 	SC OPE 	 1 	AND 	SC OPE 	 2 	GH G 	 EMISSIONS
  Without renewable energy      With renewable energyMILLION tCO2e25.7
10.7
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 201902030
10
Figure	12
CARBON 	INTENSITY 	PER	UNIT 	OF 	 REVENUE
  Carbon intensity      Total revenuestCO2e / BILLION US$
BILLION US$
0 161.9
5.32
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20190203040
10
050100150200
39
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energyWhen we committed to carbon neutrality, we saw high-quality carbon 
offsets as an interim solution. As we work to reduce our emissions, our need 
for offsets will continue to decrease. We reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
by improving energy efficiency and procuring renewable energy. We reduce  
our operational Scope 3 emissions by minimizing the need for business travel  
through encouraging the use of videoconferencing tools, like Google Hangouts   
and Google Meet, and facilitating sustainable employee commuting options 
such as public transit, shuttles, carpools, or electric vehicles.
When we do purchase carbon offsets, we follow stringent principles. 
We procure high-quality, third-party-verified offsets, including landfill and industrial gas projects. All our offsets are additional, meaning that the projects reduce GHG emissions that wouldn’t be reduced through other 
incentives. We also ensure that the projects from which we procure offsets 
are permanent sources of carbon reduction, rather than temporary solutions. 
Finally, whenever possible, we procure for the long term, which offers project owners and developers the financial stability they need to continue operating.
Google has been carbon neutral for 13 years. In that time, we’ve partnered 
with more than 40 carbon offset projects to offset more than 20 million tCO
2e 
emissions, in addition to the emissions reduced by our renewable energy PPAs. One of our long-standing project partners is Oneida-Herkimer Solid 
Waste Authority, a landfill gas project in upstate New York. By enabling us 
to reduce our carbon footprint while reducing local air pollution, improving waste management, and increasing local revenue streams, each of these collaborations is a win for both Google and our communities. 
Wells capture methane gas at Oneida-Herkimer 
Regional Landfill—one of Google’s carbon offset partners—in New York.
40
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energyGoogle began operating in 1998, nine years before we first became 
carbon neutral. That history deserves to be included in our carbon neutrality 
commitment. Therefore, as of September 14, 2020, we’d neutralized our entire 
legacy carbon footprint since our founding by procuring high-quality carbon 
offsets and applying the same methodology used over the last 13 years. This makes Google the first major company to achieve carbon neutrality for its entire operating history.
We’re also looking for new ways to sequester carbon from the atmosphere; 
protecting existing natural ecosystems, such as forests, is one of the most cost-effective and reliable ways to do so. However, we also need to restore degraded ecosystems and forests. That’s why, in 2020, we launched a carbon sequestration program, starting with science-based reforestation. Our 
reforestation pilot kicked off with plantings on degraded lands in Australia, 
Spain, and the United States (California and Texas).
We continue to improve our products to enable others to reduce their 
own carbon impact, and we’re also committed to meaningfully supporting 
communities and partners in new ways. We believe that Google can play 
a key role in building a carbon-free future by enabling partners to improve 
everyone’s lives through our technology.
LEARN	MORE
• 2011	white	paper:	Google’s 	C arbon 	Off sets: 	C ollaboration 	 and 	 Due 	 Diligence
• 2013	white	paper:	Google’s 	G reen 	 PPAs: 	Wh at, 	 How, 	 and 	Wh y
• 2016	white	paper:	Achieving 	Our 	 100% 	 Renewable 	 Energy 	 Purchasing 	G oal 	 and  
Going	Beyond
• 2017	white	paper:	10	Y ears 	 of 	C arbon 	 Neutrality
• 2018	white	paper:	Moving	T oward 	 24x7 	C arbon-Free 	 Energy 	 at 	G oogle 	 Data  
Centers :	Progress 	and	Insights
• 2019	case	study:	Accelerating 	Renewable 	Energy	Purchasing 	through 	A uctions
• 2020	white	paper:	Realizing 	a	C arbon-Free 	 Future: 	G oogle’s 	Thir d 	 Decade 	 of 
Climate Action
• 2020	white	paper:	24/7	by	2030:	Realizing 	a	C arbon-Free 	 Future
41
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energyCaption TBD
Spotlight
Boosting the value of 
wind energy
Google has long been committed to carbon-free energy. We recognize 
that decarbonizing our energy consumption is a key step to mitigate climate change. Over the past decade, wind farms have become an 
important source of carbon-free electricity as the cost of turbines has 
plummeted and adoption has surged. However, the variable nature of wind makes it an unpredictable energy source—not always as useful as one that can reliably deliver power at a set time.
In search of a solution to this problem, in 2018, DeepMind and Google 
started applying machine learning algorithms to 700 MW of wind power capacity that’s part of Google’s global fleet of renewable energy projects. By predicting wind power output 36 hours ahead of actual generation, our 
model recommends how to make optimal hourly delivery commitments 
to the power grid a full day in advance. This is important because energy 
sources that can be scheduled (i.e., can deliver a set amount of electricity at a set time) are often more valuable to the grid. 
To date, machine learning has boosted the value of our wind energy 
by roughly 20%, compared with the baseline scenario of no time-based 
commitments to the grid. Increasing the value of renewable energy 
makes it easier for us to continue to procure renewable energy to match electricity use across our business. 
In 2020, we set our most ambitious energy goal yet: to run our business 
on carbon-free energy everywhere, at all times, by 2030. Our partnership with DeepMind to make wind power more predictable and valuable is a concrete step toward that aspiration.
Minco II wind farm in Oklahoma 
(101 MW for Google)
42
Google Environmental Report 2020 Advancing carbon-free energyCreating 
sustainable 
workplaces
43
Google Environmental Report 2020Introduction
At Google, we strive to enable healthy spaces and places that enhance  
the well-being of Googlers, our communities, and the natural environment. 
We focus on the many types of communities around the world—from 
neighborhoods to ecosystems and watersheds—that we call home. 
Our sustainability priorities for workspaces are guided by Google’s company-wide sustainability values and are applied everywhere we operate—from our Bay Area headquarters to our offices in more than 
170 cities spanning over 50 countries. 
These priorities include accelerating our carbon-free transition by taking 
bold action to address the carbon impact associated with our operations, 
through pioneering innovations like building and vehicle electrification, natural refrigerants, and 24/7 carbon-free electricity; advancing circularity 
by transitioning from our current linear systems toward circular systems in 
which natural resources and technical materials are reused; and cultivating healthy indoor and outdoor environments. 
Healthy ecosystems
We take a science- and community-driven approach to managing land use on our campuses, aiming to positively impact the places where we operate by designing and building our offices with local ecology and landscape resilience  
in mind. We’re focused on creating healthy ecosystems that are great for people, provide animal habitat, support biodiversity, and can adapt to a changing climate.
Google has a thriving egret rookery in the middle of our Mountain View, 
California, campus. Since 2013, the Santa Clara Valley Audubon Society (SCVAS) and Google have worked together to provide conservation guidance and educational programming for the nesting area. Conservation efforts include limiting vehicular traffic during the breeding season, establishing   
a protocol for collecting and caring for injured and orphaned egrets, and 
installing signage. Additionally, the SCVAS organizes “Egret Office Hours,” 
attracting hundreds of Googlers, community members, North Bayshore company employees, nature enthusiasts, school groups, and others to  
learn about the rookery.BY	THE	NUMBERS
15 million ft2 
LEED-certified
Since 2009, over 1.4 million 
square meters (15 million square 
feet) of Google office facilities 
have achieved LEED certification.
71%
landfill diversion
In 2019, we reached a 71% landfill 
diversion rate for waste from our 
offices globally. 
9.2 million lbs  
of food waste prevented
Since 2014, we’ve prevented 
nearly 4.2 million kilograms  
(9.2 million pounds) of waste in 
our cafés globally by tracking  
pre-consumer food waste.
43,000
tCO2e emissions saved
In 2019, by using Google shuttles 
in the Bay Area, we saved more 
than 43,000 tCO2e emissions—
equivalent to taking 9,342 cars off the road every workday.
44
Google Environmental Report 2020 Creating sustainable workplacesWe’ve developed science-based Habitat Design Guidelines, which we 
apply to our Bay Area campus design process. By the end of 2019, we’d 
implemented these guidelines across our headquarters, resulting in the 
planting of over 2,000 new native trees and the creation of over a dozen 
acres of new site-appropriate habitat. Areas once defined by expanses of monotonous lawn and hedges now host vibrant colonies of native California wildflowers, shrubs, and trees teeming with bees and butterflies. We’ve also 
partnered with local environmental organizations to make our Habitat Design 
Guidelines available as a public resource .
As part of these habitat expansion efforts, we’ve been a leader in “re-oaking” 
Silicon Valley, bringing back lost native oak ecosystems. We’ve incorporated science-based re-oaking guidelines into our design guidelines for our Bay 
View and Charleston East campuses to promote wildlife biodiversity, habitat 
connectivity, and ecosystem function and catalyzed community efforts with 
partner organizations across Silicon Valley to do the same. 
To measure our impact, we’ve partnered with local environmental 
scientists to study and monitor these new habitats. Results from our campus 
biodiversity-monitoring program suggest that sites with native landscaping 
can support up to two times more bird species than sites with conventional landscaping. This monitoring program is a unique effort to measure the impact of native landscaping on corporate campuses and will help inform future 
design decisions at Google and other organizations. 
Native landscaping helps enhance ecological 
resilience at Google’s Bay Area headquarters. 
45
Google Environmental Report 2020 Creating sustainable workplacesGreen buildings
This all starts with a strong foundation of sustainability standards applied to 
the design, construction, and operation of our workplaces. These standards help us achieve sustainability at scale, while defining measurable metrics 
to track progress and success. We also leverage industry-leading green 
building certifications such as LEED and the Living Building Challenge (LBC), a standard administered by the International Living Future Institute (ILFI). By the end of 2019, over 1.4 million square meters (15 million square feet) 
of Google office facilities had achieved LEED certification, with 29% of our 
LEED-certified square footage achieving a Platinum rating and 56% a Gold rating (see Figure 14). In addition to receiving a LEED Platinum rating, our London office at 6 Pancras Square was the first building project in Europe to be fully certified by ILFI as well as the first in the world to receive ILFI 
Zero Carbon Certification, demonstrating that the building was designed, 
constructed, and operates with a net-zero carbon impact.
At both of our Bay View and Charleston East campuses under construction 
in Mountain View, California, we’re pursuing different LBC certifications 
tailored to each campus’s specific sustainability goals. At Bay View, we’re 
building a closed-loop water system to protect our local watershed. At Charleston East, we’re vetting every material to avoid toxic ingredients and diverting nearly all of our construction waste from the landfill. When finished, 
Figure	14
CUMULATIVE 	LEED-CERTIFIED 	OFFI CE 	SP ACE
  Cumulative total     Certified and Silver     Gold     Platinum
  1.5M —
  1.0M —
  0.5M —1.4M
2012 2011 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20190SQUARE METERS
46
Google Environmental Report 2020 Creating sustainable workplacesBay View will be the largest facility ever to receive the ILFI LBC Water Petal 
certification, and Charleston East will be the largest facility ever to receive 
the ILFI LBC Materials Petal certification. Our Bay View campus will also have the largest ground-source heat pump system installation in North America, 
using geothermal heat to power the building’s climate control.
39
As part of our 24/7 carbon-free energy strategy, we continually pursue 
energy-efficiency initiatives to reduce our energy consumption. In 2011, 
our Google-occupied building spaces in New York City committed to the 
NYC Carbon Challenge—a voluntary, public-private partnership with the 
mayor’s office in which organizations strive for a 30% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions per FTE employee by 2030. After meeting the 30% reduction goal, we committed to a 50% reduction by 2025. In 2018, we 
exceeded this goal—seven years early. By the end of 2019, we had reduced 
GHG emissions by 56% per FTE employee at our New York City office—primarily due to various energy-efficiency and emissions-reduction projects. Looking forward, we’re launching our NYC 2030 Carbon Strategy, which is intended to guide our next generation of action, including alignment with 
Local Law 97, an ambitious, industry-leading building emissions regulation. 
Our strategy will include a portfolio-wide audit, regulatory assessment, and strategic planning for retrofit and design opportunities, aiming to support the achievement of our 24/7 carbon-free energy goal by 2030. Inside a Google office in Sunnyvale, California
47
Google Environmental Report 2020 Creating sustainable workplacesWe also have a strong focus on the impacts associated with the selection, 
production, transportation, use, serviceability, and recycling of the building 
materials used for our spaces. We work to ensure that these products are 
safe for humans and the environment throughout their life cycles. We’ve been 
practicing deconstruction and salvage for our tenant interior construction since 2012, and we have a program in place to refurbish and reuse as much furniture as possible. In 2019, Google co-authored a white paper with the 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation, illustrating the opportunity to deconstruct 
commercial buildings to reuse materials for an increasingly sustainable and circular built environment. The most sustainable building is the one that already exists, so we look for opportunities to utilize existing spaces such as our Spruce Goose office  in the Los Angeles area, which uses a converted 
airplane hangar, and our Fulton Market office in Chicago, which was a  
cold-storage warehouse. We’re now working on scaling our deconstruction and salvage efforts for the benefit of not only Google but also the broader building industry.
In 2019, we refocused our Healthy Materials Program to build on our 
successes and the lessons we’ve learned, integrating targeted purchasing 
guidance more fully across the design, construction, and operation of Google spaces. While an industry-wide transition to safe chemistry and healthy materials has begun, making this the new norm will require collective action 
across sectors, increased access to high-quality data that assesses chemical 
hazards, demand signals (from buyers like Google) to material and product manufacturers, and advancements in recycling technology and infrastructure.
Office operations
When it comes to our office operations, we support our sustainability priorities with initiatives focused on topics such as water, waste, food, and transportation, and we advance these priorities at global events and through 
employee engagement.
We reduce our water footprint by installing water-saving technologies and 
using reclaimed water wherever possible. In 2018, we set a target to reduce 
potable water intensity at our Bay Area offices by 5% by 2019, compared with 
a 2017 baseline. In 2019, we achieved this target by reducing our Bay Area 
potable water intensity by 6.5%—equivalent to avoiding the use of more than 85 million liters (22 million gallons) of potable water. Our current approach to global goal-setting focuses on the highest-impact opportunities. We’re now 
targeting our work at Google offices in highly water-stressed locations. In 2019, we reduced 
our Bay Area potable 
water intensity by  
6.5 %. 
48
Google Environmental Report 2020 Creating sustainable workplacesIn 2020, we were the first major tech company to achieve Alliance for Water 
Stewardship certification for our office operations, certifying our campuses in Mountain View and Los Angeles, California, and Dublin, Ireland.
40
We implement strategies to minimize contamination in our office waste  
streams and identify diversion pathways that keep the waste we do generate   
out of landfills. In 2019, we reached 71% landfill diversion for our offices globally.
Our cafés and Food Spots offer nutritious, responsibly sourced meals, 
snacks, and beverages.41 We make thoughtful choices in the products we 
buy and the suppliers we buy them from. We prioritize sustainability by preventing food waste, encouraging the use of reusable drinking containers, 
avoiding air-shipped food whenever possible, and promoting low-carbon, 
plant-forward offerings—all of which help reduce our environmental impact and support human health and well-being.
We constantly devise inventive solutions to repurpose food and to compost 
and donate leftovers wherever we’re legally able to do so. However, we’ve 
learned that the best way to reduce food waste is to prevent it in the first 
place by tracking data and making adjustments. In 2019, in our cafés around 
the world, this sort of data-driven optimization helped Google prevent more than 1.1 million kilograms (kg) (2.5 million pounds) of pre-consumer food waste 
(which includes items that are expired, over-produced, or spoiled), totaling 
nearly 4.2 million kg (9.2 million pounds) of food waste prevented since 2014. 
We also set 2018 and 2019 targets to reduce single-use beverages per 
seated headcount at our top 25 offices by 20% and 35%, respectively, relative to a 2017 baseline. By the end of 2019, 23 of our top 25 office sites 
had attained the 20% target, and 16 of them had achieved more than a 
35% reduction. 
Our transportation team plans, implements, and operates mobility 
solutions to support Google’s global growth. We set ambitious goals for 
helping Googlers transition to shuttles, carpooling, public transit, biking, 
and walking. There is also a growing number of electric vehicles in our Google-owned and -operated commuter program fleet, with the majority of the nonelectric vehicles using renewable diesel. In 2019, our Bay Area 
headquarters remained on track to meet our long-term goal of reducing 
single-occupancy vehicle commuting to 45%. We also have a target to provide electric vehicle charging stations for 10% of the total parking spaces at our Bay Area headquarters. To date, we’ve achieved this design standard for the majority of new development projects and continue to work toward We’ve prevented  
9.2 million lbs  
of food waste since 2014.
49
Google Environmental Report 2020 Creating sustainable workplacesachieving it for all parking spaces. We’ve installed more than 3,400 electric 
vehicle charging ports at our offices in the United States and Canada. In 2019, our Google shuttle buses in the Bay Area produced savings of more than 
43,000 tCO
2e emissions—the equivalent of avoiding more than 173 million 
vehicle km (107 million vehicle miles) per year or taking 9,342 cars off the 
road every workday.42
Events
Our events are public-facing spaces with many opportunities to embed sustainability principles beyond their programming, primarily through reducing waste and emissions. We’re experimenting with recycled and 
recyclable materials, custom-built shipping crates, and modular conference 
booth designs to do more with less at Google-hosted events like the 
Geo for Good Summit and at global conferences like the CES and the 
GREENTECH FESTIVAL. For example, design efficiencies for our 2020  
CES Google Assistant conference space allowed us to achieve more than 
a 50% reduction in waste compared with our 2019 build. We’re working on 
reducing emissions via air travel by hosting hybrid satellite events—a mix of watch parties and local networking and learning experiences. 
Because sustainability is part of our culture, we give our employees 
opportunities to engage on environmental issues and put their passions into practice at work. Our Bay Area headquarters and many of our global 
Google’s booth at the 2019 Greentech Festival in 
Berlin, Germany, reused wood from shipping pallets.
50
Google Environmental Report 2020 Creating sustainable workplacesoffices celebrate Earth Day and World Environment Day by hosting annual 
events where we share how Googlers can be sustainable on campus, at home, and in their communities. We also host an annual employee 
recognition program to recognize Googlers around the world who are 
driving sustainability across the company. Throughout the year we also invite thought leaders and experts to speak on the latest trends, achievements, and challenges related to sustainability, some of which are posted on the 
Talks at Google YouTube channel. With most of the world sheltering in place, 
working remotely, or both at some point in 2020, Google has helped everyone, especially our employees, learn sustainable living tips for life at home.
Our employees constantly reinvigorate our determination to build a better   
future. As we continue to explore sustainability strategies, we’re committed 
to sharing what we learn with other companies to help foster the growth of 
more productive, environmentally friendly businesses. 
LEARN	MORE	
• 2018	case	study:	The	Role	of	Sa fe 	C hemistry 	 and 	 Healthy 	 Materials 	 in 	Unl ocking  
the	C ircular 	 Economy
• 2018	case	study:	Seeding 	Resilience 	with	Ecology :	Implementing   
Science-Based 	Ur ban 	 Ecological 	 Design 	 in 	G oogle’s 	So uth 	 Bay 	C ampuses
• 2019	spotlight: 	The	J ourney 	T oward 	 Healthier 	 Materials
• 2020	white	paper:	Accelerating 	the	C ircular 	 Economy 	 through 	C ommercial  
Deconstruction 	and	Reuse
51
Google Environmental Report 2020 Creating sustainable workplacesSpotlight
Designing a net-zero 
carbon workplace
Our pathway to a carbon-free future by 2030 starts with our own operations, 
a key aspect of which is radically accelerating carbon emission reductions in buildings. That’s why we apply industry-leading green building practices 
and pursue third-party green or healthy-building certifications for our office 
projects whenever possible.
Our 6 Pancras Square office building in London was the first building  
project  in the world to receive ILFI Zero Carbon Certification, meaning that 
it was designed, constructed, and operates with a net-zero carbon impact. 
This building is also certified LEED Platinum and BREEAM (Building Research 
Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) Excellent. 
During construction, we used approximately 22% less energy than 
standard practice, had no timber waste generated on-site, and diverted 
98% of construction waste from landfills. Flexible design strategies—such 
as modular, demountable systems for meeting rooms—were implemented to accommodate changing tenants and adaptable working requirements, with the goal of reducing future carbon emissions and renovation needs. By maximizing recycled content, sourcing local and low-carbon materials, 
and reusing existing building materials, we helped ensure the project had  
a net-zero carbon impact. 
The long-term goal is to design, construct, and operate buildings that  
are truly regenerative. We want future buildings to store more carbon  
in their materials than what is spent producing them, to be powered by  
24/7 carbon-free energy, and to positively impact their surrounding  
ecology and community. 
The interior of our office at 
6 Pancras Square in London
52
Google Environmental Report 2020 Creating sustainable workplacesBuilding better 
devices and 
services
53
Google Environmental Report 202053 Google Environmental Report 2020Introduction
Google’s consumer hardware product area was formed just over four 
years ago. Our ambition is to create products that leave people, the planet, and our communities better than we found them. 
In 2019, we shared our initial sustainability commitments for Google 
hardware and services, demonstrating how we’re thinking about sustainability every step of the way—from design and manufacturing to shipping and reuse. One of our commitments was that by 2020, 100% of all shipments 
going to and from customers would be carbon neutral. We hit this target 
early: As of October 2019, 100% of all shipments of Made by Google products  
going to and from direct customers are carbon neutral.
43 
Another goal is that by 2022, 100% of Made by Google products will include 
recycled materials, with a drive to maximize recycled content whenever 
possible. Based on our progress to date, we’re updating our original goal 
and raising the bar by committing to using recycled or renewable material44 
in at least 50% of all plastic used across all our hardware products by 2025, prioritizing recycled plastic everywhere we can.
45 
The next steps on our journey to sustainable hardware include committing 
to achieving UL 2799 Zero Waste to Landfill certification at all final assembly 
manufacturing sites by 2022 and making our product packaging 100% 
plastic-free and 100% recyclable by 2025. 
We’re at the start of a journey of reimagining how even better hardware 
and hardware experiences are created. Looking ahead, we know there’s 
more work to be done. We’ll continue working to design energy-efficient 
products and to extend the useful life of our products by making them more serviceable. And we’ll continue ensuring that our products are accessible for as many people as possible. We’ve invested in integrating sustainability into our products, operations, and communities. Our new commitments are the 
next step, and we plan on pushing ourselves and the industry forward even 
more in the coming months and years. BY	THE	NUMBERS
100 %  
of shipments are 
carbon neutral
As of October 2019, shipments  
of Made by Google products to  
and from direct customers are 
carbon neutral.
100 %  
of Nest products contain recycled 
plastics
In 2019, 100% of the Nest products 
we launched, including Nest Mini 
and Nest Wifi, were built with 
recycled plastics.
47  billion kWh
of energy savings
By the end of 2019, Nest 
thermostats had helped 
customers cumulatively save 
more than 47 billion kWh of 
energy—enough to power all 
of San Francisco’s electricity consumption for over eight years.
$150  million  
investment into 
renewable energy 
projects
We’ve committed to invest 
approximately $150 million 
into renewable energy projects in key manufacturing regions. 
Our investment commitment, 
alongside those of our 
partners, aims to catalyze 
roughly $1.5 billion of capital 
into renewable energy.
54
Google Environmental Report 2020 Building better devices and servicesConsumer hardware devices
Over the past few years, we’ve been steadily growing our family of Google 
hardware products. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful, make life easier, and improve over time by combining the best of Google’s AI, 
software, and hardware. This is reflected in our latest generation of consumer 
hardware products. In 2019, we launched Pixel 4, Pixel Buds, Nest Mini, Nest Wifi , Pixelbook Go, and the Stadia Controller . In 2020, we launched Pixel 5, 
Pixel 4a (5G), Pixel 4a, Nest Audio , Chromecast with Google TV, and a new 
Nest Thermostat, among other products. 
In 2018, we began publishing product environmental reports for our  
flagship products to help people understand the sustainability attributes of our products. Each report provides an overview of that device’s environmental impact in areas such as material composition, life cycle 
GHG emissions, and energy efficiency. We hold ourselves to the highest 
environmental standards and strive to ensure that Google products are designed, manufactured, and disposed of sustainably. This applies to how  we think about materials, manufacturing processes, energy efficiency,  
and packaging. Collaborating on the design 
of Nest Wifi and Nest Mini
55
Google Environmental Report 2020 Building better devices and servicesWe consider sustainability throughout a device’s entire life cycle, including  
its design, production, transportation, use, and end of life. Our product life  
cycle assessments give us insight into our largest opportunities for reducing 
the environmental impact of a given product. For example, GHG emissions 
from shipping are an important contributor to our products’ environmental impact. To achieve carbon neutrality for shipping, we have a two-step approach: The first step is carbon reduction. Our goal is to work with shipping 
partners to reduce shipping emissions. We achieved a 33% reduction in total 
transportation emissions per unit for Google hardware products from 2017  
to 2019. For the emissions that remain, our second step is to purchase  
high-quality carbon offsets. As of October 2019, shipments of Made by  
Google products to and from direct customers are carbon neutral.
46  
We support greener electronics standards and certifications, including 
UL 110, IEEE 1680.1, and the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment 
Tool (EPEAT).47 In the mobile phone category, we’ve achieved EPEAT Gold 
registration for all current models of the Pixel phone, starting with the Pixel 3  
in 2018 and most recently with the Pixel 5 in 2020.48 In the computer and 
display category, Pixelbook Go and Pixel Slate achieved EPEAT Silver 
registration when launched.49 
We also strive to make our products as energy efficient as possible. 
For example, Google Pixelbook incorporates power-management software to 
reduce energy consumption during use. This allowed it to attain ENERGY STAR® 
certification, which means it has energy performance among the top 25% of similar products. In February 2017, the Nest Learning Thermostat became the first smart thermostat to achieve ENERGY STAR certification by the EPA.
50 
Other products with ENERGY STAR certification include Pixelbook Go,  
Pixel Slate, Nest Thermostat E, and the new Nest Thermostat.
Circular materials
Google has a goal to increase the sustainability and circularity of our  
consumer hardware products, operations, and communities. By decreasing 
our use of new materials, we’ll reduce our waste per device while signaling our 
demand for a more circular economy. 
To accelerate the transition to a circular economy, it’s critical to create 
demand for recycled materials. We aim to design products and services for circularity and to reuse materials at their highest environmental and social 
value. Our original goal was to include recycled materials in 100% of Made  
by Google products, starting in 2022. We hit that goal early: In 2019, 100% of 
the Nest products we launched were built with recycled plastics, and in 2020,  all new Pixel and Nest products were also designed with recycled materials.  As of October 2019, 
shipments of Made by 
Google products to and 
from direct customers are  
carbon neutral.
56
Google Environmental Report 2020 Building better devices and servicesTo raise the bar, we’re now committing to using recycled or renewable 
material in at least 50% of all plastic used across all our hardware products  
by 2025, prioritizing recycled plastic everywhere we can.
The Nest Mini’s external enclosure is made from 41% post-consumer 
recycled plastic , and its fabric covering is made from recycled plastic 
bottles. In fact, one half-liter bottle can make enough textiles for two Nest Mini speakers. The same sustainable fabric was used for the Nest Audio 
speaker enclosure, and in the Pixel 4a case and Pixel 5 case, all of which 
are made from 70% recycled materials. Two recycled plastic bottles can provide enough knitted outer fabric for five cases. These processes provide a second use for plastic bottles so that they don’t end up in oceans or landfills. Also, the aluminum used in the back housing enclosure of the Pixel 5 
is 100% recycled. This is our first phone to incorporate recycled aluminum, 
which lowers the carbon footprint of manufacturing the enclosure by 35% compared with using mined aluminum.
Incorporating recycled plastic into consumer electronics is very challenging, 
so we’ve spent years building partnerships with top-tier materials suppliers willing to invest in producing high-quality materials and innovation. Going forward, we’re committed to expanding the use of sustainable materials across our product portfolio. Google’s focus on incorporating recycled materials into our hardware design not only supports our sustainability One plastic water bottle creates enough 
fabric for two Nest Mini enclosures.
57
Google Environmental Report 2020 Building better devices and servicescommitments but also enables our supply chain partners to confidently 
invest in and develop these types of materials so that the wider consumer electronics industry can use them too.
We want to ensure that the materials and substances used for our  
products are safe for people and the environment, can be reused to create future products, and retain economic value. One of the keys to unlocking the circular economy is safer chemistry from the start, so in 2017, we published 
our Restricted Substances Specification to ensure the use of safer materials 
across our products.
We’re also making it easier for people to give their old devices a second 
life. Customers can responsibly recycle devices for free—whether made by Google or not—via our take-back program, which expanded in 2020 and is 
available in 32 countries, and via our U.S. and Canada Pixel trade-in program, 
which allows customers to earn credit toward a new Pixel purchase.
Energy savings
Our products, such as Nest thermostats, enable customers to be more 
thoughtful about their individual environmental impact. Connected homes can help streamline a customer’s daily decisions about resource 
consumption, making sustainable choices easier for busy households.
For example, smart thermostats can play a critical role in addressing climate  
change  by automatically saving energy and helping customers be more aware 
of their energy usage. These savings benefit customers, as well as the utilities 
generating and delivering the energy, while reducing energy use and  
GHG emissions.
Nest thermostats help control residential heating and cooling systems—
which can make up around half of a home’s energy consumption. Some  
Nest thermostats also use AI and machine learning to reduce energy 
consumption and achieve collective savings as they learn how and when  
to keep customers comfortable, while optimizing for energy efficiency.  
On average, Nest thermostats have proven energy savings of 10%–12% for heating and 15% for cooling,
51 which means they pay for themselves in under 
two years as a result of those savings.52 By the end of 2019, Nest thermostats 
had helped customers cumulatively save more than 47 billion kWh of energy 
(see Figure 15), based on average savings studies—enough energy to power 
all of San Francisco’s electricity consumption for more than eight years.  
In 2019 alone, Nest thermostats helped customers save over 17 billion kWh  
of energy—more energy than Google used in 2019.  In 2019 alone, Nest thermostats 
helped customers save over  
17 billion kWh   
of energy—more energy than 
Google used in 2019.
58
Google Environmental Report 2020 Building better devices and servicesPartnerships
As part of our commitment to make technology that puts people first and 
expand access to the benefits of technology, our teams have explored a range of approaches, including the use of ultrasound sensing to make 
Nest displays more accessible and collaborative partnerships with energy 
companies and service providers to help customers save energy and money. 
Nest’s Rush Hour Rewards program works in partnership with energy 
providers to reduce energy use during times of peak demand by harnessing 
the power of customer engagement—acting as a leader in demand response 
programs for energy customers. Where there are extreme weather events and power outages, such programs—including one announced in 2020 in California—have helped keep the lights on.
53 In 2018, Nest and partners also 
pioneered residential gas demand response programs. In a world of gas shortages and increasing weather variability, these programs are proving 
their capability to manage demand spikes and increase system flexibility.Figure	15
CUMULATIVE 	HOUSEHOLD 	ENERGY 	S AVED 	 BY	 
NEST	THERM OSTAT 	CUS TOMERS
  Cumulative savings
  20 —
  10 —  30 —  40 —  50 —BILLION kWh
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 201847.0
20190
59
Google Environmental Report 2020 Building better devices and servicesWe also work with energy, government, nonprofit, and manufacturing 
partners to expand access to the benefits of technology through income-
qualified programs. Nearly one in four U.S. households struggle with a high   
energy burden, with up to 20%–50% of household income going to energy bills.
54 In 2018, we launched the Nest Power Project, which aims to install   
1 million energy- and money-saving Nest thermostats in homes that need 
them most by 2023. As of November 2020, we had worked with partners to 
provide more than 300,000 Nest thermostats to households in need.
Stadia , Google’s gaming platform, joined the Playing for the Planet Alliance 
in 2019 and will work closely with the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) 
to support various gaming-related sustainability initiatives in the coming years. 
Stadia is powered by Google Cloud, which means it’s carbon neutral.
Our commitments go beyond the consumer hardware products we make. 
We’re committed to minimizing our environmental impact and improving 
the lives of people who make our products. We want to work toward a world where everyone has access to renewable energy, including our 
suppliers and their communities. As a part of this, in 2019, we committed 
to invest approximately $150 million into renewable energy projects in key 
manufacturing regions. Our investment commitment, alongside those of our partners, aims to catalyze roughly $1.5 billion of capital into renewable energy. Some of Google’s consumer hardware products: Pixel 5, Pixel 4a with 5G, 
Pixelbook Go, Stadia Controller, Nest Wifi router, Nest Wifi point, and Nest Mini
60
Google Environmental Report 2020 Building better devices and servicesWith these investments, we expect to help generate renewable energy  
that is equivalent to the amount of electricity used to manufacture our 
Google consumer hardware products.
LEARN	MORE
• 2015	white	paper:	Energy	Sa vings 	fr om 	 the 	 Nest 	 Learning 	Thermo stat:  
Energy	Bill	An alysis 	 Results
• 2018	report:	Circular 	C onsumer 	 Electronics: 	An 	 Initial 	 Exploration
• 2020	report:	Supplier 	Responsibility 	Report
• Guidelines: 	Alphabet’s 	C onflict 	 Minerals 	 Policy 	 and 	 2019 	C onflict   
Minerals 	Report
• Guidelines: 	Policy	A gainst 	 Modern 	Sl avery  and 2019	S tatement 	A gainst  
Modern 	Sl avery
• Guidelines: 	Restricted 	S ubstances 	Spe cification
• Website: 	Google	S tore 	S ustainability
• Website: 	Product 	Environmental 	Reports
• Website: 	Supplier 	Responsibility
61
Google Environmental Report 2020 Building better devices and servicesSpotlight
Making energy savings  
easy with Nest
In our next decade of climate action, we’re focused on helping 1 billion people 
live more sustainably. This means ensuring our products enable everyone to connect with the right tools, information, and guidance to take action. 
People want to use less energy at home, whether to save money or help 
the environment. With the new Nest Thermostat, that’s now easier than ever. As of March 2020, Nest thermostat owners had saved over 50 billion kWh  
of energy since we first introduced the device nearly a decade ago—that’s 
enough energy to light up the entire planet for five days. 
Nest thermostats are designed to bring more energy savings to more 
people. The Savings Finder and Seasonal Savings features act like personal 
energy monitors, suggesting small optimizations and making schedule 
tweaks—sometimes by just a fraction of a degree each day—using the  
Home app. These little changes through the Seasonal Savings feature can  add up: The average customer sees 3%–5% in energy savings on their home’s heating and cooling systems. 
The new Nest Thermostat is also helping customers monitor their heating 
and cooling systems, detecting and sending alerts about potential issues 
early on. To avoid heating or cooling an empty house, Nest thermostats  
use sensors to automatically set themselves to an Eco temperature  
when no one’s home.
Setting the temperature with 
the new Nest Thermostat
62
Google Environmental Report 2020 Building better devices and servicesEmpowering 
users with 
technology
63
Google Environmental Report 202063Introduction
A global challenge requires a global response. We want to leverage our 
scale, resources, and technological expertise to meet the vast challenge posed by climate change and work to empower everyone—businesses, 
governments, nonprofits, communities, and individuals—to use Google 
technology to help create a more sustainable and resource-efficient world.
For more than a decade, many of our technologies have helped to 
measure, monitor, and visualize the planet in real time. We’re using artificial 
intelligence to find new ways to address environmental challenges—such 
as predicting natural disasters and preventing wildlife trafficking—and to improve people’s lives through crisis response. Our vision is to leverage our mapping, cloud, and machine learning technologies to create a living, breathing dashboard of our planet.
We’re building products and tools that empower billions of people to 
better understand and reduce their personal environmental impact. We’ve already started this journey by enabling sustainable transit via Google Maps and Waze , including carbon emissions data in Google Flights, and 
adding sustainability filters in Google Shopping. Over the next two years, 
we’ll continue to build features like these that connect people with more sustainable options and offer actionable information at the right time.  
Our goal is to find new ways that our core products can help 1 billion  
people make more sustainable choices by 2022.
Mapping our world
Millions of people around the globe use Google Earth to explore and 
understand our ever-changing planet. In 2019, Google Earth introduced new tools to help users create maps  about places that matter to them, 
shared audio recordings from more than 50 Indigenous language speakers,  
and developed guided tours  through 31 U.S. national parks. 
While Google Earth is for exploration, storytelling, and raising awareness, 
Google Earth Engine gives researchers access to Google’s massive cloud 
and computational capabilities for planetary-scale geospatial analysis. 
Newly integrated with Google Cloud’s AI Platform, Google Earth Engine 
included over 25 petabytes
55 of freely available geospatial data  as of the  
end of 2019. Between updates and expansions to existing datasets and new data additions  in 2020, the catalog grows at a rate of approximately 
1 petabyte per month. Whether it’s a teenager monitoring mangroves   
with NASA, a cartographer visualizing tsunamis, or Indian citizens mapping  
invasive species, tens of thousands of people around the world use  BY	THE	NUMBERS
25  petabytes
of freely available 
geospatial data
Earth Engine has enabled tens 
of thousands of active users 
around the world to easily 
analyze over 25 petabytes 
of freely available geospatial 
information, resulting in a deeper 
understanding of the planet. 
1 billion km  
of transit results
Google Maps provides, on 
average, more than 1 billion 
kilometers’ (621 million miles’) 
worth of transit results per 
day, helping to limit carbon emissions by giving people 
access to mass transit options, 
bike routes, and traffic 
information.
100 cities  
empowered with 
environmental insights
In 2019, we expanded the 
Environmental Insights Explorer  
to more than 100 cities worldwide, 
empowering city planners and 
policymakers with data to help 
develop climate action plans.
170 million  
rooftops mapped  
with solar data
By the end of 2019, Project 
Sunroof contained data for 
more than 170 million rooftops 
across 21,500 cities, helping 
users estimate the impact and 
potential savings from installing 
solar panels.
64
Google Environmental Report 2020 Empowering users with technologyGoogle Earth Engine to create new knowledge that’s fundamentally changing 
what we know about Earth’s natural resources and how to manage them.
Google Maps helps limit carbon emissions by giving people access to mass 
transit options, bike routes, and traffic information. It has transit information for nearly 11,000 agencies running through more than 4.3 million transit stations in over 100 countries and provides, on average, more than 1 billion kilometers’ (621 million miles’) worth of transit results per day. Whether traveling in a 
new city or planning a daily commute, Google Maps makes it easier to weigh 
every transportation option with real-time information. Users can view live  
traffic delays for buses, public transit crowdedness predictions , bikeshare  
information , scooter availability , and first- or last-mile transit directions  paired 
with biking and ridesharing. At the end of 2019, Google Maps contained nearly 
142,000 electric vehicle charging port locations globally.
Launched in the Bay Area in 2016, Waze Carpool is also tackling the issue of 
too many cars on the road by encouraging Waze users to commute together,  
saving time and money while reducing the strain on transportation infrastructure and the environment. In 2019, Waze drivers and riders carpooled more than 
120 million km (75 million miles), offsetting more than 26,000 tCO
2e emissions, 
which is the equivalent of planting more than 400,000 trees.56 By the end of 
2019, Waze Carpool was available nationally throughout Brazil, Israel, Mexico, and the United States. Cities also use Waze’s data, now on Google Cloud, to 
inform mobility projects and policies and to share their own information about street closures or construction directly with residents on a daily basis.Google Earth image of Yellowstone 
National Park in the United States ©2020 Maxar Technologies
65
Google Environmental Report 2020 Empowering users with technologyThrough Google Earth Timelapse—a global, zoomable video released in  
2013 that lets us see how the world has changed over the last 35 years—  
we can watch as cities grow, forests disappear, glaciers recede, and lakes  
dry up. For example, one researcher used Timelapse in 2019 to illustrate  
India’s rapid urbanization and monitor the regrowth of mangrove forests  
on India’s eastern coastline.
Technology for the planet
We put Google technology to work helping others study and respond to 
environmental challenges. Our Google Earth Outreach team collaborates with 
numerous research and nonprofit organizations to map the world’s forests, 
fisheries, watersheds, and air quality. We then work on getting that information 
into the hands of decision-makers. 
For example, in 2018, we launched the Environmental Insights Explorer  
(EIE). This online tool uses exclusive data sources and modeling capabilities in a freely available platform to help cities measure emission sources, run 
analyses, and identify strategies to reduce emissions. By analyzing Google’s 
comprehensive global mapping data together with standard GHG emission factors, EIE estimates city-scale building and transportation carbon emissions and renewable energy potential, leading to more globally consistent baselines 
from which cities can measure, plan, act upon, and track progress toward 
emissions reductions. While EIE had officially published data for 100 cities by the end of 2019, the EIE team has processed climate-relevant data across a sample of 3,000 cities to produce emissions insights from approximately 95 million buildings and nearly 3 trillion km traveled. We worked  with the Global 
Researchers use Google Earth 
Timelapse to monitor mangrove forest regrowth in Kansardia, Odisha, India.©2020 Google / Landsat / Copernicus
66
Google Environmental Report 2020 Empowering users with technologyCovenant of Mayors for Climate & Energy and ICLEI, a global network of local 
governments committed to sustainability, to review and validate the tool, and in 2019 we launched EIE Labs, which currently hosts climate-focused 
datasets on air quality and tree canopy . The cities of Hamburg, Germany; 
Hartford , Connecticut, United States; Kyoto , Japan; and Melbourne, Australia, 
are just a few leading examples of how access to innovative data sources for 
measuring and tracking impacts of GHG emissions helps cities act in a timely, 
effective way. In 2020, we committed to helping more than 500 cities and 
local governments reduce an aggregate of 1 gigaton of carbon emissions per  
year by 2030, using EIE to support local climate action planning.
Launched in 2014, Proje ct Air View measures air quality data by using 
Google Street View cars equipped with air quality sensors. In 2019, Project Air 
View increased its air quality mapping efforts, expanding beyond the United 
States to map air quality in Copenhagen , Denmark; London , United Kingdom; 
and Amsterdam , the Netherlands. And we’re enabling 50 more Street View cars  
with Aclima’s mobile air sensors. 
We’re also helping users explore whether they should go solar with Project  
Sunroof , launched in 2015. This online tool analyzes high-resolution aerial 
mapping and 3D modeling of residential roofs to sun positions, historical weather patterns, shadows cast by nearby objects, and typical electricity consumption. By the end of 2019, Project Sunroof contained data for more 
than 170 million mapped rooftops across 21,500 cities. Policymakers can use 
Sunroof data to make bold renewable energy commitments. For example, A map of Copenhagen’s 
hyperlocal air quality data available through EIE Labs  
Map data ©2020 
67
Google Environmental Report 2020 Empowering users with technologythe cities of San José, California, and Houston, Texas, have both used the 
data for city-wide solar assessments as part of their climate action plans. In addition to city climate plans, Sunroof data is being used by some of the 
world’s largest utilities, such as Engie and E.ON, to provide customers with 
the option to power their homes with solar energy. The data has also been used to develop a tool to design solar power systems on residential roofs. And the tool was used in recovery efforts in Puerto Rico after the devastating 
Hurricane Maria in 2017.
Our technology is used to monitor and promote sustainable resource 
management with tools like Global Fishing Watch (GFW), which launched 
in 2016. Powered by Google Cloud’s machine learning algorithms, GFW 
monitors  the planet’s fisheries by tracking the locations and behaviors 
of commercial fishing fleets and making the data freely available and 
transparent. The research community has released 13 new top-tier journal  
publications  in the last two years alone, with over 25 total since 2016. Using 
GFW’s near-real-time satellite-tracking data in the Pacific Ocean, there 
was a threefold increase in boardings and an eightfold increase in violation 
detections by the United States Coast Guard in 2019. Seeing the value of 
transparency, governments from Chile, Costa Rica, Namibia, and Panama are joining Canada, Indonesia, Japan, and Peru in new commitments and programs using GFW insights. 
In collaboration with UNEP and the European Commission Joint Research 
Centre, Google launched a new platform  enabling all countries to freely 
measure and monitor when and where surface water is changing. The Freshwater Ecosystems Explorer provides statistics for every country’s  
annual surface water and shows changes from 1984 through 2019 via 
interactive maps, graphs, and full-data downloads. Previously, 80% of the 
roughly 200 UNEP member countries were unable to measure national water statistics; now, more than 160 countries plan to use this platform to officially report on the targets set out in the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goal for clean water and sanitation.
AI for social good
In 2018, Google AI announced its AI for Social Good program, which applies 
core Google research and engineering efforts to projects that help address 
social, humanitarian, and environmental challenges. Additionally, the program 
provides tools and resources through initiatives like the Google AI Impact  
Challenge , which was an open call for nonprofits, academics, and social 
enterprises from around the world to submit proposals on how they could 
use AI to help address some of the world’s greatest problems. For example, 160  
countries   
plan to use the 
Freshwater Ecosystems 
Explorer to officially 
report on United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goal 
water targets.
68
Google Environmental Report 2020 Empowering users with technologyWattTime, a 2019 Google AI Impact Challenge grantee, is using satellite 
images and processing algorithms to monitor global power plant emissions. 
In 2020, WattTime and its partners announced Climate TRACE (Tracking 
Real-time Atmospheric Carbon Emissions), a new coalition applying similar techniques to build the world’s first tool to trace all major sources of human-caused GHG emissions to their source anywhere in the world in real time.
Google’s AI for Social Good program and Crisis Response teams launched  
a flood-forecasting pilot in Patna, India, in 2018. To help keep people safe 
during floods, we’re using AI to create better forecasting models that predict when and where floods will occur. The predictions are made using a combination of machine learning, satellite imagery, and physics-based simulations. The predictions are then shared with affected individuals via 
Google Public Alerts. In 2019, we expanded our flood-forecasting coverage  
area  in India by 12 times, improved our tracking accuracy notification 
infrastructure, sent over 800,000 alerts to individuals in affected areas, 
and developed key partnerships with local governments, international organizations, the academic community , and operational experts. In 2020,  
we further expanded in India and brought our flood warnings and services  to Bangladesh , which experiences more flooding than any other country in  
the world. Through services such as flood forecasting, wildfire mapping,  
and earthquake detection, we continue to find new ways for technology  
to be helpful at the most critical times.
AI can also aid in wildlife conservation. Twenty-one companies joined 
Google in launching the Coalition to End Wildlife Trafficking Online in 2018, 
collectively creating a wildlife policy framework for online trade and an 
In 2020, we launched a new wildfire 
boundary map in the United States.
69
Google Environmental Report 2020 Empowering users with technologyindustry-wide approach to reduce online wildlife trafficking. The coalition 
has now grown to 36 companies, uniting the tech industry to standardize prohibited wildlife policies, better detect illicit wildlife products, enhance 
automated detection filters, and empower users to report suspicious listings. 
In 2019, Google joined a number of partners in launching the Wildlife Insights  
platform, developing custom AI models to automatically identify species in wildlife camera trap images so that conservationists can act more quickly 
to help recover global wildlife populations. Google’s AI for Social Good 
program also partnered with the NOAA Pacific Islands Fisheries Science Center to train an AI model on its vast collection of whale songs , helping 
scientists better protect endangered whales.
Using TensorFlow , Google’s open-source machine learning platform, 
we’re enabling thousands of companies, nonprofits, researchers, developers, and students to apply machine learning to help fight illegal deforestation, 
predict forest fires , combat crop pests, keep cows healthy , save the world’s  
bees , and sort recyclable waste. TensorFlow is also being used along with 
Google Cloud to help farmers reduce food-crop loss. 
In 2019, we launched the Google for Startups Accelerator focused on the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, to help build and scale viable social impact companies to solve the world’s biggest problems with the best of Google, including our advanced technology. We selected 11 startups from 
almost 1,200 applications from across Africa, Europe, and the Middle East 
that are using technology to work toward at least one of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
In 2020, we partnered with other institutions to advance weather and  
climate prediction, forecasts, and technology. We’re working with NOAA  
to explore the benefits of AI and machine learning to amplify environmental monitoring, weather forecasting, and climate research using Google Cloud infrastructure. Google was also a founding member of the AI Institute for Research on Trustworthy AI in Weather, Climate, and Coastal Oceanography, 
which is developing trustworthy AI technology to address concerns related 
to weather, climate, and coastal hazards. 
Tools for everyone
At Google, we know that individual actions can collectively make a big difference. We’re continuously looking for ways to help support everyone  
on their journey to a more sustainable life.
In 2018, Google teamed up with the California Academy of Sciences  
to launch Your Plan, Your Planet, an award-winning interactive tool to help 
people understand their environmental impact as it relates to food, energy, 
70
Google Environmental Report 2020 Empowering users with technologyand water, while demonstrating simple, science-based ways to improve it.  
For example, individuals can learn tips to use at home, such as that food lasts longer when stored in the right spot in the fridge or that dishwashers use less 
energy and water than washing dishes by hand. In 2019, we expanded the 
tool to include a section on the circular economy and how people can extend the life of their stuff, and we released an education component as a tool for teachers. As of the end of 2019, Your Plan, Your Planet had documented more 
than 300,000 individual pledges for people to take action to reduce their environmental impact.
Google Assistant can help people go green by incorporating actions  
to save energy, materials, and water into day-to-day life. For example, they can set daily routines that can help automate a more sustainable lifestyle. 
In 2019, we partnered with Earth 911 to bring better recycling information to 
the Google Assistant in North America, helping people make better, more 
informed decisions about what to recycle based on their location. The Google Assistant will respond to queries about where to recycle with an address and  
a map showing the fastest way to get there.
We now offer carbon emissions data and the capability to sort flights by 
least carbon-intensive option in Google Flights in select European countries. As of October 2019, we began offsetting all GHG emissions from shipping Buy on Google orders to customers, making Google Shopping carbon neutral 
in the United States and France. And sustainability filters and zero-plastic 
packaging options for stores in Google Shopping in the United States offer new functionality to enable users to make sustainable choices .
We believe our core mission of organizing the world’s information plays 
a key role in connecting people with sustainable choices for products, 
services, and actions. We want to make it easier for people to help the planet 
in their daily lives, by reducing the friction between good intentions and taking action. We’re committed to offering 1 billion people new ways to live more sustainably with the help of our core products like Search and Google 
Maps, and we’ll continue to look for more ways for our products to enable 
sustainable choices for a carbon-free world.
LEARN	MORE
• 2017	report:	Cities	in	the	C ircular 	 Economy: 	The 	 Role 	 of 	 Digital 	T echnology
• Website: 	Google	AI: 	AI 	f or 	Soci al 	G ood 	Gui de
• Website: 	Google	Earth	Ou treach: 	T ools
• Website: 	Sustainability: 	T echnology 	T oolsWe’re committed  
to offering   
1 billion  
people new ways to 
live more sustainably 
with the help of our 
core products by 2022.
71
Google Environmental Report 2020 Empowering users with technologySpotlight
Expanding climate insights 
Down Under
Over 70% of global carbon emissions come from cities. City leaders around 
the world have pledged climate action and better air quality for their residents, but identifying the source of emissions—buildings, cars, or public transport—
and measuring how much each is contributing is complex.
As part of Google’s most ambitious decade of climate action, we’re making 
a commitment to help more than 500 cities and local governments reduce 
an aggregate of 1 gigaton of carbon emissions per year by 2030. To do this, 
we’ll empower city planners and policymakers with the Environmental Insights 
Explorer (EIE) to make it easier for cities to measure progress against their 
climate action plans.
Melbourne, Australia, was one of five pilot cities included in the EIE launch 
in 2018, and Australian cities Adelaide , Canberra, and Sydney  were added in 
2019. In 2020, we expanded EIE data access to thousands of cities worldwide, 
including more than 100 Australian councils.
To scale data access to local governments, policymakers, and community 
groups, we’re developing partnerships with Australian organizations, councils, and climate change experts. This includes a partnership with Ironbark 
Sustainability and Beyond Zero Emissions to make EIE transportation data 
available in Snapshot—a free climate tool that calculates major sources of carbon emissions, including stationary energy, transport, waste, agriculture, and land-use change. Integrating EIE data into Snapshot provides updated 
GHG profiles and enables local government policy decision-making for more 
than 86% of the country’s population, putting councils on a fast track to deliver climate commitments, build local resilience, and ensure economic recovery.
The Environmental Insights Explorer tool 
provides city-level carbon emissions data.  
©2020 CNES / Airbus, Landsat / Copernicus, Maxar Technologies
72
Google Environmental Report 2020 Empowering users with technologyAppendix
73
Google Environmental Report 202073Environmental data
The following table provides an overview of our performance over time and  
includes both environmental data for our global operations (including our data centers, offices, networking infrastructure, and other facilities) and data beyond 
our operations (including our investments and technology). The majority of our 
environmental data covers Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Google LLC. All reported data is global and annual unless otherwise specified. 
We obtain third-party assurance from an independent, accredited auditor 
for specific environmental data as part of our Independent Accountants’ Review , including select energy, emissions, and water metrics, indicated in  
the table below. 
For more information on our 2019 energy use and GHG emissions, see 
Alphabet’s 2020 CDP Climate Change Re sponse . 
Key	performance 	indicator	Assur ed	 
for 201958,59 Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
OUR	OPERATIONS
GREENHOUSE 	G AS	E MISSIONS
Emissions 	inventory60 
Scope 1 tCO2e 66,991 66,218 66,549 63,521 66,686
Scope 2 (market-based)61 tCO2e 1,384,427 1,518,643 509,334 684,236 794,267
Scope 2 (location-based) tCO2e 2,450,438 2,902,554 3,301,392 4,344,686 5,116,949
Scope 3 (total)62 tCO2e 1,234,683 1,292,268 2,719,024 12,900,467 63,6411,669,000
Scope 3 (business travel and commuting) tCO2e 297,789 314,028 356,060 463,467 542,000
Scope 3 (other) tCO2e 936,894 978,240 2,362,964 12,437,0006511,127,000
Total (Scope 1, 2 [market-based], and 3 [total]) tCO2e 2,686,101 2,877,129 3,294,907 13,648,224 66,6712,529,953
Operational 	emissions68 
Scope 1, 2 (market-based), and 3  
(business travel and commuting)tCO2e 1,749,207 1,898,889 69 931,943 1,211,224 1,402,953
Scope 1, 2 (location-based), and 3  (business travel and commuting) tCO2e 2,815,218 3,282,800 3,724,001 4,871,674 5,725,635
Emissions 	reduced 	and	neutralized
Total emissions reduced by renewable energy  PPAs and neutralized by carbon offset projectstCO
2e –3,752,112 –3,282,800 –3,724,001 –4,871,674 –5,725,635
Emissions reduced by renewable energy PPAs tCO2e –1,066,011 –1,383,911 –2,792,058 –3,660,450 –4,322,682
Emissions neutralized by carbon offset projects tCO2e –2,686,101 –1,898,889 –931,943 –1,211,224 –1,402,953
Net operational carbon emissions70 tCO2e 0 0 0 0 0
Carbon	intensity71 
Carbon intensity per unit of revenue tCO2e/ 
million US$19.4 17.6 5.19 5.47 5.32
Carbon intensity per full-time equivalent employee tCO2e/ 
FTE25.0 23.4 7.60 8.36 7.96
Carbon intensity per megawatt-hour of  energy consumed
72 tCO2e/ 
MWh0.262 0.243 0.0717 0.0707 0.0675Fiscal	year57
74
Google Environmental Report 2020 AppendixKey	performance 	indicator	Assur ed	 
for 2019 Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
ENERGY
Energy	use
Energy consumption73  MWh 5,533,433 6,513,719 8,029,409 10,572,485 12,749,458
Total electricity consumption MWh 5,221,476 6,209,191 7,609,089 10,104,295 12,237,198
Electricity consumption (U.S.) MWh 3,779,280 4,522,314 5,533,783 7,085,620 8,489,242
Electricity consumption (international) MWh 1,442,196 1,686,877 2,075,306 3,018,675 3,747,956
Energy	efficiency
Average annual fleet-wide power usage 
effectiveness across Google data centers  PUE 1.12 1.12 1.11 1.11 1.10
Renewable 	energy
Renewable energy contracts (cumulative) MW 2,121 2,611 2,960 3,837 5,401
Total renewable electricity purchased74MWh 2,531,157 3,770,571 7,609,089 10,104,295 12,237,198
Renewable electricity (PPAs and on-site) MWh 2,083,474 2,817,913 6,244,788 8,246,508 9,721,283
Renewable electricity (grid) MWh      447,683 952,658751,364,301 1,857,787 2,515,915
Electricity purchased from renewable sources76 % 48 61 77100 100 100
WASTE
Waste	generated
Waste generated t 50,050 43,058 53,363 57,113 51,617
Waste	diversion
Total landfill diversion rate78 % — 81 83 80 76
Landfill diversion rate (data centers) % 84 86 91 87 90
Landfill diversion rate (offices) % 78 78 78 76 71
Pre-consumer food waste prevented in cafés 
(cumulative)kg 269,292 980,291 1,990,868 3,019,252 4,152,872
Hardware 	refurbishment 	and	reuse
Components used for machine upgrades that were refurbished inventory% 52 22 11 19 19
Components resold into the secondary market Million 
components2.0 2.1 2.1 3.4 9.9
WATER79 
Operational 	water
Water withdrawal80 Million 
gallons— 2,500 3,071 4,170 5,161
Water consumption81 Million 
gallons— — — — 3,412
Water discharge82 Million 
gallons— — — — 1,749Fiscal	year
75
Google Environmental Report 2020 AppendixKey	performance 	indicator	Assur ed	 
for 2019 Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
WORKPLACES
Green	building 	certification
LEED-certified office space (cumulative) m2711,625 865,493 1,034,875 1,294,161 831,438,257
Platinum (cumulative) % 31 34 28 29 29
Gold (cumulative) % 58 54 56 57 56
Certified and Silver (cumulative) % 11 12 16 14 15
Sustainable 	commuting
Electric vehicle charging ports installed at offices in 
the United States and Canada (cumulative)84 Ports 1,382 1,646 2,077 2,722 3,419
Emissions avoided due to employee electric vehicle commuting in the United States and Canada
85 tCO2e 1,489 2,142 2,891 4,103 6,258
Employee shuttle commuting trips in the Bay Area Million trips 3.5 3.7 3.8 4.0 4.3
Employee shuttle riders in the Bay Area (peak daily) Unique riders 8,500 9,000 10,000 11,000 11,900
Emissions avoided due to employee shuttle trips in the Bay AreatCO
2e 28,901 33,656 33,241 40,309 43,242
Urban	ecology
Native trees planted on our Bay Area campuses (cumulative)Trees 96 96 1,411 1,602 2,191
Native habitat restored and created on our  
Bay Area campuses (cumulative)Acres 1 1 7 9 12
BEYOND 	OUR	OPERATIONS
INVESTMENTS   
Equity	investments 	in	renewable 	energy86 
Equity investments (cumulative)87 GW 3.7 3.7 3.7 3.7 3.7
EMPOWERING 	USERS	WITH	TECHNOLOGY
Tools
Rooftops mapped for solar potential by Project 
Sunroof (cumulative)Million 
rooftops43 60 67 107 170
Cities covered by Project Sunroof (cumulative) Cities — 7,300 8,900 21,500 21,500
Cities covered by the Environmental Insights Explorer (cumulative)Cities — — — 5 117
Products
Household energy saved by Nest thermostat customers, in gigawatt-hours (cumulative)GWh 5,717 10,270 17,480 29,894 47,020Fiscal	year
76
Google Environmental Report 2020 AppendixAbout Google
As our founders explained in their first letter to shareholders, Google’s goal 
is to “develop services that significantly improve the lives of as many people  
as possible.” We believe in technology’s potential to have a positive impact 
on the world. We also believe we’re just scratching the surface. Our vision  
is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that uses our 
technical expertise to tackle big problems.
Google’s core products and platforms—Android, Chrome , Gmail,  
Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Play , Search, and YouTube—each 
have more than 1 billion monthly active users. Our data centers help power all of those products, along with a broader set of cloud-based products and services, including Google Workspace business productivity apps, like Calendar and Docs, and satellite mapping and analysis platforms like 
Google Earth. Our consumer hardware devices include Google Nest home  
products , Pixelbooks, Pixel phones, and other devices.
We generate revenues primarily by delivering both performance 
advertising and brand advertising. We’re a wholly owned subsidiary 
of Alphabet Inc., which as of December 31, 2019, had 118,899 full-time 
employees. Revenues for the fiscal year ended on December 31, 2019, were more than $161 billion, over 99% of which came from the Google segment, which includes ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube.
88
Google’s global headquarters are located in Mountain View, California, 
United States. We also have significant operations in Sunnyvale and other cities throughout the San Francisco Bay Area, including San Francisco,  
San Bruno, and Palo Alto. In this report, “Bay Area headquarters” refers to  
our operations in both Mountain View and Sunnyvale, and “Bay Area offices” refers to all of our operations in the San Francisco Bay Area. We own and  lease office and building space, as well as research and development sites, 
across more than 170 cities. We have 21 data center locations across four 
continents, as well as more than 20 Google Cloud regions .
77
Google Environmental Report 2020 AppendixEndnotes  
Our approach
1. “Internet Users by Region and Country, 2010–2016,” International Telecommunication Union, accessed 2020.
2. M athy Stanislaus, “A Virtuous Circle,” The Environmental Forum, September/October 2016.
3. “Earth Overshoot Day Is August 22, More Than Three Weeks Later Than Last Year ,” Global Footprint Network, June 5, 2020.
4. V alérie Masson-Delmotte et al., eds., Summary for Policymakers. Global Warming of 1.5°C: An IPCC Special Report on the Impacts of Global Warming of 1.5°C above Pre-industrial Levels 
and Related Global Greenhouse Gas Emission Pathways, in the Context of Strengthening the Global Response to the Threat of Climate Change, Sustainable Development, and Efforts to 
Eradicate Poverty, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, October 2018.
5. E ric Masanet et al., “ Recalibrating Global Data Center Energy-Use Estimates,” Science, February 28, 2020.
6. “International Decade for Action ‘Water for Life’ 2005–2015: Water Scarcity ,” United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, accessed 2020. 
Designing efficient data centers
7. So me of our locations have more than one data center campus, and others were not yet operational during 2019.
8. Se e note 5 above. 
9. Se e note 5 above. 
10. A ccording to Google’s own analysis of our more efficient servers, power infrastructure, and cooling systems, compared with data center industry averages.
11. PUE is a s tandard industry ratio that compares the amount of non-computing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power distribution) to the amount of energy used to 
power IT equipment. A PUE of 2.0 means that for every watt of IT power, an additional watt is consumed to cool and distribute power to the IT equipment. A PUE closer to 1.0 means 
nearly all the energy is used for computing.
12. A ccording to the Uptime Institute’s 2019 Data Center Survey , the global average PUE of respondents’ largest data centers was around 1.67.
13. T railing 12-month PUE consists of the average PUE for the previous 12 months, and it’s graphed quarterly in this figure. The trailing 12-month PUE reported for Quarter 4 is equivalent to 
the average annual PUE, as it covers the time period from January to December.
14. Google Data Centers: Economic Impact and Community Benefit, Oxford Economics, April 2018. 
15. Bruno Ba salisco et al., Google’s Hyperscale Data Centres and Infrastructure Ecosystem in Europe: Economic Impact Study, Copenhagen Economics, September 2019. 
16. Bruno Ba salisco et al., Inside Finland: Google’s European Hyperscale Data Centres and Infrastructure Ecosystem, Copenhagen Economics, November 2020.
17. Bruno Ba salisco et al., Inside Denmark: Google’s European Hyperscale Data Centres and Infrastructure Ecosystem, Copenhagen Economics, November 2020.
18. M att Brittin, “Our Data Centers Support Europe’s Green Economic Recovery ,” The Keyword (blog), December 14, 2020.
19. E ric Masanet et al., The Energy Efficiency Potential of Cloud-Based Software: A U.S. Case Study, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, June 2013.
20. The annu al carbon footprint of a Gmail user is about 1/80th that of a small business with locally hosted email servers. Larger organizations show smaller, though still impressive,  
efficiency gains. “ Google’s Green Computing: Efficiency at Scale,” Google, 2011.
Advancing carbon-free energy
21. “State Electricity Profiles: Data for 2019 ,” U.S. Energy Information Administration, accessed 2020. 
22. “Corporate Clean Energy Buying Leapt 44% in 2019, Sets New Record,” BloombergNEF, January 28, 2020.
23. Es timates of project-level capital investment are sourced from Google’s renewable energy project partners.
24. G oogle is the largest organization, in terms of electricity consumption, to achieve a 100% renewable energy match.
25. WRI’ s market-based Scope 2 methodology requires the use of residual grid mixes, which represent the mix of resources generating electricity in a region after accounting for those 
designated for specific customers via contractual instruments like PPAs. Current residual mix data is available only in the EU.
26. Se e note 15 above. 
27. Lazard’s Levelized Cost of Energy Analysis—Version 13.0, Lazard, November 2019.
28. Medium-Term Renewable Energy Market Report 2016, International Energy Agency, October 25, 2016.
29. Renewables 2020 Global Status Report, REN21, June 2020.
30. Renewables 2020: Analysis and Forecast to 2025, International Energy Agency, November 10, 2020.
31. R abia Ferroukhi et al., Renewable Energy Benefits: Measuring the Economics, International Renewable Energy Agency, January 2016.
32. The 2035 Report: Plummeting Solar, Wind, and Battery Costs Can Accelerate Our Clean Electricity Future, Goldman School of Public Policy, University of California Berkeley, June 2020.
33. Sc ope 1 emissions are direct emissions from sources we own or over which we have operational control, such as company vehicles or generators at Google’s offices and data centers.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the production of electricity we purchase to run our operations and the production of space heating for our offices. The location-based category reflects the average carbon intensity of the electric grids where our operations are located and, thus, where our energy consumption occurs. The market-based category 
incorporates our procurement choices, i.e., our renewable energy purchases via contractual mechanisms like PPAs. Scope 3 emissions are indirect emissions from other sources in our 
value chain, such as business travel or our suppliers.
34.
 CO2e is a quantity that describes, for a given mixture and amount of GHG, the amount of carbon dioxide that would have the same global warming potential (GWP), i.e., the ability of a gas to trap heat in the atmosphere when measured over a specified timescale (generally, 100 years). Some GHGs are more potent than others, as measured by their GWP. Carbon 
dioxide is the baseline and thus has a GWP of 1.
78
Google Environmental Report 2020 Appendix35. Our o perational emissions include our Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-based), and Scope 3 (business travel and employee commuting).
36. “Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator ,” U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, accessed 2020.
37. C arbon intensity metrics are based on gross global combined Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissions.
38. C arbon offsets are reductions in GHG emissions made to compensate for emissions that occur elsewhere. For each metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent reduced, one carbon 
offset is created.
Creating sustainable workplaces
39. A dele Peters, “ Google’s New Office Will Be Heated and Cooled by the Ground Underneath,” Fast Company, October 24, 2017.
40. The Alliance for Water Stewardship, “ Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) North America Announces Google Achieves AWS Certification—the First Major Tech Company to Pursue the 
Industry-Leading Water Standard for Its Campuses,” CSRWire, August 12, 2020.
41. “F ood Spots” is an umbrella term covering Google’s MicroKitchens, Hubs, and Hydration Stations.
42. Se e note 36 above. 
Building better devices and services
43. W e offset the carbon emissions from all Google-owned shipments of consumer hardware, including to and from retail partners, distributors, and Google Store customers.
44. R enewable material consists of plastic made from bio-based material.
45. Minimum per centage of recycled or renewable plastic content calculated as a percentage of total plastic (by weight) in all products manufactured in 2025. The following may be 
excluded from the calculation of percentage: printed circuit boards, labels, cables, connectors, electronic components and modules, optical components, electrostatic discharge 
components, electromagnetic interference components, films, coatings, and adhesives.
46. Be cause shipping devices to customers falls outside the scope of Google’s operations, these efforts go beyond Google’s long-standing commitment to operational carbon neutrality.
47. UL 110 and IEEE 1680.1 are multi-attribute, consensus-based sustainability standards for mobile phones and for computers and displays, respectively. Google uses a third party to 
validate conformance and independently certify to these standards. 
48. “EPEAT Registry: Mobile Phones,” Green Electronics Council, accessed 2020.
49. “EPEAT Registry: Computers & Displays,” Green Electronics Council, accessed 2020.
50. M ary H.J. Farrell, “Nest Becomes First Smart Thermostat to Get Energy Star ,” Consumer Reports, March 2, 2017.
51. Energy Savings from the Nest Learning Thermostat: Energy Bill Analysis Results, Nest Labs, February 2015.
52. Ind ependent studies showed that Nest saved people an average of 10% to 12% on heating and 15% on cooling. Using typical energy costs, we’ve estimated average savings of $131 to 
$145 a year. That means the Nest Learning Thermostat can pay for itself in under two years. Individual savings are not guaranteed.
53. Darr ell Proctor, “ Companies Announce New Residential VPP for California,” POWER, December 7, 2020.
54. “Energy Savings Are for Everyone,” Nest Power Project, accessed 2020.
Empowering users with technology
55. O ne petabyte is 1015 bytes, or 1 million gigabytes, of digital information. It’s equal to approximately 2.5 months of uninterrupted, uncompressed, high-definition (1920 x 1080 pixels)  
video data.
56. Se e note 36 above. 
Appendix
57. Alp habet’s fiscal year runs from January 1 to December 31.
58. E rnst & Young LLP reviewed select quantitative performance indicators for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. See their related Independent Accountants’ Report. 
59. W e had another provider verify the following metrics in prior years: Scope 1 emissions, Scope 2 (market-based) emissions, Scope 2 (location-based) emissions, Scope 3 (business 
travel and commuting) emissions, and biogenic emissions. For more information, see our prior annual Environmental Reports.
60. GH G emissions are calculated according to WRI’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For more information on our methodology, including a breakdown of Scope 3 categories,  
see Alphabet’s 2020 CDP Climate Change Response.
61. Sinc e 2010, we’ve procured renewable energy for our operations, and in 2012, we began publishing how this reduces our overall carbon footprint. Up until 2015, there was no guidance 
from WRI on how to account for these emissions reductions, so we developed our own methodology, whereby on an annual basis we assigned renewable electricity procured against 
electricity consumed (in megawatt-hours) in the closest data center to the renewable energy project. In 2015, WRI released new guidance for market-based Scope 2 accounting, 
which we adopted, starting with 2015 data. Our pre-2015 methodology differs from WRI’s in the use of residual mixes, which avoid double-counting of claimed renewable energy 
attributes.
62. Se e note 60 above.
63. In 20 18, to align with industry best practices for Scope 3 reporting, we extended our reporting boundaries to include emissions associated with food served in our offices, hardware 
manufacturing emissions beyond Tier 1 suppliers (full upstream to the point of extraction), use of sold products, and end-of-life treatment of sold products. Google’s hardware 
includes data center servers, networking equipment, and consumer hardware products. These extended categories have been reported annually from 2018 onward.
64. W e’ve restated our 2018 Scope 3 (other) emissions due to changes in our calculation methodology and improvements in data quality, resulting in a corresponding restatement of our 
2018 Scope 3 (total) and 2018 Total (Scope 1, 2 [market-based], and 3 [total]) emissions.
65. Se e note 64 above.
66. Se e note 63 above.
79
Google Environmental Report 2020 Appendix67. Se e note 64 above.
68. W e calculate total operational emissions as the sum of Scope 1, Scope 2 (location-based or market-based), and Scope 3 (business travel and employee commuting) emissions, which 
have been third-party assured by Ernst & Young LLP as shown in their 2019 Independent Accountants’ Review .
69. In 20 16, we adopted the industry practice of including only operational emissions in our carbon neutrality commitment. The operational emissions included in our carbon  
neutrality commitment include Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-based), and Scope 3 (business travel and employee commuting). For more information, see our 2017 white paper  
10 Years of Carbon Neutrality.
70. Se e note 69 above.
71. Se e note 37 above.
72. In 20 19, we updated our megawatt-hour carbon intensity metric to include all of our gross Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissions divided by our total energy consumption, 
rather than limiting this intensity figure to our data centers.
73. T otal energy consumption represents Scope 1 fuel use, Scope 2 electricity consumption, and Scope 2 purchased heating.
74. W e’ve restated our 2015 and 2016 data for total renewable electricity purchased due to quality assurance improvements in our data collection and calculations.
75. W e’ve restated our 2016 data for renewable electricity (grid) due to quality assurance improvements in our data collection and calculations.
76. P ercentage of renewable energy is calculated on a calendar-year basis, comparing the volume of renewable electricity (in megawatt-hours) procured for our global operations  
(i.e., renewable energy procured through our PPA contracts, on-site renewable energy generation, and renewable energy in the electric grids where our facilities are located) with the total volume of electricity consumed by our operations. This metric includes all renewable energy purchased, regardless of the market in which the renewable energy was consumed.
77.
 T o align with the method outlined in note 76 above, starting in 2016, we adapted our methodology for calculating total electricity obtained from renewable sources. Prior to 2016,  
we were not accounting for the residual renewable electricity purchased through grid electricity.
78. W aste diverted to a more sustainable pathway than landfill or incineration without energy recovery.
79. In 20 19, we aligned our water reporting with industry standards to disclose three water indicators: withdrawal, consumption, and discharge.
80. In 20 16, 2017, and 2018, water withdrawal was reported as water consumption. Starting in 2019, the 2016, 2017, and 2018 values are now reported as water withdrawal.
81. 20 19 is the first year for which we’re disclosing gross global water consumption and gross global water discharge data; therefore, we do not publish data from any prior years.
82. Se e note 81 above.
83. 20 18 LEED data has been restated based on a refinement of Green Business Certification Inc.’s methodology.
84. N umber of ports for ChargePoint stations in the United States and Canada, which represent the majority of our electric vehicle charging ports in those countries. We began installing 
electric vehicle charging ports in Canada in 2017.
85. E missions avoided are estimated using data from the reported ports for ChargePoint stations in the United States and Canada only.
86. In a ddition to our renewable energy contracts, Google also invests in renewable energy projects around the world that are not used to offset our carbon footprint.
87. C umulative gigawatts represent the expected combined capacity of renewable energy projects in which we have an equity investment, even if we’re a minority owner.
88. See Alphabet Inc.’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019.
80
Google Environmental Report 2020 AppendixGoogle	Environmental 	Report	2020
December 2020
On	the	cover:	
A Google Earth image of Tabuaeran, Kiribati, a low-lying island nation in the Pacific Ocean that is expected 
to become the first country submerged by sea level rise as a result of climate change.  ©2020 Maxar Technologies
Our	approach:
Golden Hills wind farm in California (43 MW for Google)
Designing 	efficient 	data	centers:
A closer view of backup tapes in our Berkeley County, South Carolina, data center tape library
Advancing 	carbon-free 	energy:
Maevaara wind farm in Sweden (a total of 105 MW for Google)
Creating 	sustainable 	workplaces:
A Googler rides a GBike around our Bay Area headquarters.
Building 	better	devices	and	services:
The Pixel 4a case is made from 70% recycled materials, including recycled plastic bottles.
Empowering 	users	with	technology:
Google Earth image of Greater London, United Kingdom ©2020 Bluesky, Getmapping plc, Infoterra Ltd & Bluesky, Maxar Technologies, The GeoInformation Group