Environmental 
Report
2018Google Environmental Report 2018
2 Environmental sustainability at Google
3 About Google
4	 About	this	report
Our approach
6   Mission and values
13	 	Performance	highlights	and	targets
Designing efficient data centers
18  Overview
22  SPOTLIGHT:	Positive	energy:	Belgian	site	becomes	 first	Google	 
data	center	to	add	on-site	solar
Advancing renewable energy
24  Overview
29	 	Our	carbon	 footprint
32  SPOTLIGHT:	 Unlocking	access	to	corporate	renewable	energy	 
purchasing	in	 Taiwan
Creating sustainable workplaces
34  Overview
38  SPOTLIGHT: Ecologically	 focused	landscapes	are	coming	 
to	life	on	 Google	campuses
Empowering users with technology
40  Overview
45  SPOTLIGHT: Transparency	unleashed:	How	 Global	Fishing	 Watch	 
is	transforming	 fishery	management
Appendix
47  Environmental data
50  Endnotes
1
Google Environmental Report 2018Environmental sustainability  
at Google
Since our early days, Google has focused on developing services that 
significantly improve the lives of billions of people while operating our 
business in an environmentally sustainable way.
We’ve come a long way in 20 years: maintaining carbon neutrality since 
2007, matching 100% of the 2017 electricity consumption of our global 
operations with renewable energy purchases, leading the industry in data 
center energy efficiency, creating over 11 million square feet of LEED-certified 
office space, and diverting more than 75% of our waste from landfills.
We’re encouraged by what we’ve accomplished and are energized by how 
much more there is to do. Creating a clean and healthy planet is a shared 
responsibility, and not something that can be solved in a day. That’s why we’re 
excited about the great work being done across Google, as well as through 
long-term, innovative partnerships.  
Matching 100% renewable energy is just the beginning. We’re enabling 
3 gigawatts of new renewable energy around the world and engaging 
policymakers to unlock opportunities for corporate renewable-energy 
procurement. We’ve also taken a science-based approach in designing our 
buildings to be as healthy as possible and to add value to the communities 
around them. Through collaborative partnerships, we’re leveraging our 
technology to provide insights that empower decision-makers to protect 
both people and the planet. 
Our commitment to a zero-carbon future drives us to build sustainability 
into everything we do, and we’ll continue using our technology for good 
in order to help people around the world make smarter use of the earth’s 
resources and drive positive environmental impact.
Ruth Porat
Senior Vice President and  
Chief Financial Officer
Alphabet and GoogleUrs	Hölzle
Senior Vice President of  
Technical Infrastructure 
Google
Google Environmental Report 2018
2About Google
As our founders explained in their first letter to shareholders, Google’s goal  
is to “develop services that significantly improve the lives of as many people 
as possible.”1 We believe in technology’s potential to have a positive impact 
on the world. We also believe we’re just scratching the surface. Our goal as  
a company is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that 
uses our technical expertise to tackle big problems.
We generate revenue primarily through online advertising. Google’s core 
products— Search, Android, Maps , Chrome , YouTube, Google Play , and 
Gmail—each have more than 1 billion monthly active users. 
We also offer a broad collection of cloud-based products and services, 
including G Suite business productivity apps like Docs, Drive, and Calendar 
and satellite mapping and analysis platforms like Google Earth and Google 
Earth Engine. In recent years we’ve expanded into consumer electronics  
with products including Google Pixel, Google Pixelbook, Google Home,  
and Chromecast .
We’re a wholly owned subsidiary of Alphabet Inc., which also includes 
companies such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X.  
As of December 31, 2017, we had more than $110 billion in total revenues  
and 80,110 full-time employees.
Google’s headquarters are located in California, in the San Francisco Bay 
Area, United States. In this report the term “Bay Area headquarters” refers to 
our operations in both Mountain View and Sunnyvale. We own and lease office 
and building space, research and development labs, and sales and support 
offices across more than 160 cities, primarily in North America, Europe,  
South America, and Asia, and we own and operate 14 data centers across  
four continents.
3
Google Environmental Report 2018About this report
The annual data in this report covers our 2017 fiscal year (January 1 to 
December 31, 2017). The spotlights also include data and stories from prior 
years to provide context, as well as some of our progress in 2018. Unless 
otherwise specified, all environmental performance data included in this 
report applies to Google LLC. The primary exception is our greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions and energy use data, which covers the combined 
operations of Google and our parent company, Alphabet Inc., and has been 
third-party verified. 
For more information about our environmental sustainability initiatives, 
including case studies, white papers, and blogs, please see our Sustainability 
website  and our 2017 Environmental Report. Additional information about 
Google’s commitment to corporate responsibility can be found in the 
resources listed below:
Alphabet’s	2018	 CDP	Climate	 Change	Report
Responsible Supply Chain website
Investor Relations website
Google.org website
Crisis Response website
Diversity	&	Inclusion	website
Accessibility 	website
Transparency	Report
Digital	Wellbeing	website
Privacy	&	 Security	website
4
Google Environmental Report 2018Our approach
5Google Earth image of New Caledonia, Australia
©CNES / Astrium, DigitalGlobe
5
Google Environmental Report 2018Mission and values
Our mission is to organize the world’s information and make it universally 
accessible and useful. Fulfilling this mission and bringing the benefits of 
information not just to the more than 3 billion people who are already online  
but to the next 4 billion requires us to use resources ever more efficiently.2 
The path to a cleaner, healthier future begins with the small decisions  
we make each day. That’s why we’re committed to building sustainability into 
everything we do, making smart use of the earth’s resources, and creating 
products with the planet in mind. We constantly look for ways to have a 
positive environmental impact and be even more responsible in our use of 
energy, water, and other natural resources—and we want to empower others 
to do the same. 
Our operations are designed to get the most out of technology, while 
also being mindful of our use of resources. That’s why Google is the world’s 
largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy (see Figure 5 on page 25), 
and it’s what’s driven us to be carbon neutral since 2007. Our data centers 
also lead the industry in energy efficiency, using 50% less energy than the 
industry average. This same ethos carries over to our workplaces, with over 
1 million square meters (11 million square feet) of Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) certified offices and the diversion of more than 
three-quarters of our waste from landfills. The Googleplex in Mountain View, California
6
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approachOur tools are built to help us all reduce our environmental impact, 
understand the planet, and take sustainable action. One hundred percent of 
the electricity our operations use is matched with renewables, so whether 
someone is using Google at home or as part of an organization running 
Google Cloud  or G Suite, the net carbon emissions directly associated with 
those workloads is zero. By mapping the world’s forests and fisheries, our 
technology also makes it easier for researchers and nonprofit groups to 
monitor the pulse of the planet. For those looking to take sustainable action, 
the 1 billion kilometers (621 million miles) of alternative transit options we share 
in Google Maps every day , the tens of millions of rooftops we’ve mapped 
for solar potential, and the over 17 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) we’ve helped 
households save through Nest  make it easier to do so. And as we continue to 
grow our Made by Google consumer hardware business, we’re on a journey  
to make consumer electronics that work for people and the planet. 
Addressing a global challenge
Humanity is consuming natural resources at an astonishing rate. During  
the 20th century, global raw material use rose at about twice the rate of 
population growth.3 Every year humanity consumes far more than what  
the planet can naturally replenish. In 2017, global demand for resources  
was 1.7 times what the earth can support in one year.4
These statistics highlight the need to rethink the “take-make-waste” economic 
model that human societies have followed since the Industrial Revolution, in 
which we take a natural resource, make a product from it or burn it for fuel, and 
eventually send what remains to the landfill as waste. A major consequence of 
this model is climate change, one of the most significant challenges of our time. 
We believe that Google’s scale, resources, and technological expertise can help 
the world meet its energy and resource needs in a way that drives innovation and 
growth while reducing GHG emissions and the use of virgin materials and water. 
Taking action
Demand for computing power continues to skyrocket, with millions more 
people coming online every month, and data center capacity continues 
to expand to meet this need. But despite this growth, the total amount 
of electricity used by U.S. data centers has remained constant. Annual 
consumption increased by 90% from 2000 to 2005, but only by 4% from  
2010 to 2014, largely due to data centers’ ability to improve their efficiency 
as they scale.5 As the use of mobile devices increases and more IT users 
transition to public clouds, we believe our industry can and must do better 
than just holding the line on energy use. We can actually lower it, serving  
more users while using fewer resources.Google Maps  
provides more than  1 billion  
kilometers’ worth of 
alternative transit results  
per day.
7
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approachGoogle’s energy consumption drives our biggest impact on the environment, 
and we’re focused on tackling it through a threefold strategy for carbon 
neutrality. First, we pursue aggressive efficiency initiatives. Second, we 
match 100% of the electricity consumption of our operations with purchases 
of renewable energy. Third, we buy carbon offsets for any remaining 
emissions we haven’t yet eliminated.
We’ve long been a vocal advocate for greening electrical grids worldwide. 
We’ve supported strong clean-energy and climate-change policies 
committed to adding clean power to the grid, and we’re partnering with 
governments and nongovernmental organizations to use Google technology 
and computing power to model the effects of climate change on both a 
global and a local level. Today, we have contracts to purchase 3 gigawatts 
(GW) of output from renewable energy projects, and these contracts have 
led to over $3 billion in new capital investment in projects around the world.6
We’re also working to incorporate a climate-resilience strategy into our 
operations that will enable our business and the communities we are part  
of to thrive despite the effects of climate change. We’ve developed a set  
of principles that serve as the foundation for our strategy, which focuses 
on a people-centric framework that is robust, integrated, diverse, and 
designed with unique locations, scalability, and longevity in mind.7 We used 
this framework to conduct a climate exposure and vulnerability analysis 
that enabled us to assess the future resilience of our current locations and 
evaluate the climate resilience of new developments.
Google Earth image of Santa Cruz Province, Argentina
© CNES / Astrium, DigitalGlobe
8
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approachWater is another top priority. The United Nations predicts that by 2025, 
two-thirds of the world’s population could live in water-stressed conditions, 
and with the existing climate change scenario, almost half the world’s 
population will be living in areas of high water stress by 2030.8 As a global 
company headquartered in drought-prone California, we’re working to 
efficiently utilize water, particularly in our data centers, where we regularly 
redesign and enhance our cooling technologies. We’re also using Google 
technology to help researchers study global water challenges and awarding 
millions of dollars in grants to promising water-conservation solutions.9
Finally, we’re changing how we think about waste. In October 2016 we 
announced that we’re committed to achieving Zero Waste to Landfill for 
our global data center operations by reducing the amount of waste we 
generate and finding better disposal options. In 2017, we diverted 91% of 
waste from our global data center operations away from landfills, and we’re 
always looking for new ways to reduce waste in our journey to sustainably 
manage resources across Google. As a Global Partner of the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation, we’re also working with other leading companies to help  
bring initiatives like these to scale, thereby accelerating the transition to  
a circular economy.
We’re applying circular economy principles to design out waste, keep 
materials in use, and regenerate natural systems. We strive to embed these 
approaches into everything Google does, from how we manage servers in 
our data centers to the materials we select to build and furnish our offices. 
We have also been exploring the role of technology in advancing the circular 
economy, and we continue to look for opportunities to embed circular 
principles into the fabric of our infrastructure, operations, and culture.In 2017, we diverted 
91 % 
of waste from our global  
data center operations away  
from landfills.
Assembling a unit using partly refurbished and salvaged parts 
9
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approachLooking toward future opportunities 
We believe global businesses like Google should lead the way in improving 
people’s lives, while reducing or even eliminating our dependence on virgin 
materials and fossil fuels. And we believe this can be done in a way that makes 
business sense, providing economic returns alongside societal benefits and 
positive environmental impacts.
Our end goal is to get to a point where renewables and other carbon-free 
energy sources power our operations every hour of every day. This means 
empowering all energy users with cheap, clean, zero-carbon energy sources like 
wind and solar and developing new policies, technologies, and tools that help 
users, businesses, and activists drive change. 
Google tools are helping people measure the planet’s health. More and more, 
machine learning and artificial intelligence applications are enabling scientists 
and practitioners to create sustainable solutions and to turn the data we have 
into the insights and knowledge needed to guide better decision-making. Today 
anyone who is online can view Timelapse on Google Earth Engine and see the 
world change over recent decades, watching as cities grow, forests disappear, 
glaciers recede, and lakes dry up. We continue to work with research and 
nonprofit organizations all over the world to monitor these changes. Our vision 
is to leverage our mapping, cloud, and machine learning technologies to create a 
living, breathing dashboard of our planet that can help inform everyday decisions 
for individuals, organizations, and nations—today and for generations to come— 
and we are committed to using these technologies in a responsible way.10
Snapshot of Google Earth Engine timelapse  
over Miami, Florida
10
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approachSetting our priorities
This year we undertook an assessment to identify and prioritize content for 
our environmental report. This assessment took into consideration Google’s 
impact on sustainability, the importance of environmental sustainability issues 
to Google’s business strategy, and the perspectives of a diverse range of 
stakeholders outside of Google. 
The issue areas that were found to be of greatest relevance include our 
data centers, workplaces, users, water stewardship, circular economy 
strategy, and supply chain (see Figure 1). Cutting across these priorities is 
the importance of engaging on public policy—at local, state, federal, and 
international levels—to support the success of sustainable business models.Designing 
energy-efficient	
data	centers 
and advancing 
renewable 
energy. Embedding 
circular	economy 
principles into 
everything we do. Providing 
sustainable 
workplaces  and 
engaging our 
employees in 
our sustainability 
programs. Managing water 
stewardship and 
increasing the 
climate	resilience 
of our operations. Empowering 
users with 
technology	
that helps 
address global 
sustainability 
challenges. Figure	1
OUR	PRIORITIES
Engaging our 
supply	chain  
on human rights, 
safety, and the 
environment.
Aerial view of Google’s data center in Dublin, Ireland
11
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approachGoogle uses energy, natural resources, and products and services 
from our suppliers to build our workplaces, data centers, networking 
infrastructure, and consumer electronics. The software products and 
services that our customers and users rely on are powered by our data 
centers and networking infrastructure (see Figure 2). We’re driving positive 
environmental impact throughout our value chain in four key ways: by 
designing efficient data centers, advancing renewable energy, creating 
sustainable workplaces, and empowering users with technology.Google Cloud Platform and  
G Suite ProductsData Centers and 
Networking InfrastructureOffices and Labs Consumer Electronics Energy
Natural 
ResourcesManufacturing,
Construction, and
Services
Customers and Users Employees and Communities Suppliers and Communities
EcosystemsFigure	2 
GOOGLE	 VALUE	CHAIN
12
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approachPerformance highlights  
and targets
The following three pages include highlights of the environmental initiatives 
discussed in this report. They provide a snapshot of our performance  
to date and our targets going forward. Together, they demonstrate how  
we’re strengthening our business by reducing the environmental impact  
of our operations and working to empower people everywhere to live  
more sustainably. 
For a more complete overview of our performance over time, see the 
environmental data table on page 47.
A view from Google Earth
13
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approachDesigning efficient data centers
Energy Certifications
50% 
less energy7x 
computing	power1.1 1
PUEISO 50001  
certification
On average, a Google data center 
uses 50% less energy than a typical 
data center.
Page 18Compared with five years ago, we 
now deliver around seven times as 
much computing power with the 
same amount of electrical power.
Page 18The average annual power usage 
effectiveness (PUE) for our 
global fleet of data centers was 
1.11, compared with the industry 
average of 1.58—meaning that 
Google data centers use about 
five times less overhead energy.
Page 19We maintained ISO 50001 
(energy management) 
certification for 12 of our 14 
Google-owned and -operated 
data centers globally, which 
together represented more  
than 96% of our IT energy use.
Page 20
Waste
18% 
of	servers	 
remanufactured2.1 million  
components	resold100 %
landfill	diversion91% 
waste	diverted
18% of the servers Google deployed 
were remanufactured machines.
Page 20Over 2.1 million components 
were wiped clean and resold into 
secondary markets.
Page 20Six of our operating data  
centers have achieved 100%  
landfill diversion.11
Page 20We diverted 91% of waste from  
our global data center operations 
away from landfills.
Page 20
Advancing renewable energy
Energy GHG	emissions
3 GW
of	renewable	energy100 %  
renewable energy$2.5 billion  
in	equity	commitments87%
decrease	in	carbon	 
intensity
Google is the world’s largest 
corporate purchaser of renewable 
energy. We’ve signed 26 agreements 
totaling nearly 3 GW of renewable 
energy—generating emissions 
savings equivalent to taking more 
than 1.3 million cars off the road  
per year.
Page 24We matched 100% of the  
electricity consumption of  
our operations with purchases  
of renewable energy.
Page 24Since 2010, we’ve committed  
to invest nearly $2.5 billion in 
renewable energy projects  
with a total combined capacity  
of 3.7 GW.
Page 27Over the past six years, our 
carbon intensity per unit of 
revenue decreased by 87%.
Page 29
GHG	emissions	(continued)
11 years
of	carbon	neutrality40
carbon	offset	projects
Google has been carbon neutral 
since 2007. Because of our 
renewable energy and carbon 
offset programs, our net operational 
carbon emissions during this period 
were zero.
Pages 29 and 30Since 2007, we’ve partnered with 
more than 40 carbon offset projects 
to offset more than 17 million metric 
tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(tCO2e). 
Page 312017 performance highlights
14
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approachCreating sustainable workplaces
Certifications Water Waste
11.1  million	square	 feet	 
LEED-certified28% 
LEED Platinum 29 million gallons
avoided78%
landfill	diversion
Over 1 million square meters  
(11.1 million square feet) of Google 
office facilities have achieved LEED 
certification.
Page 3428% of our LEED-certified square 
footage has achieved a Platinum 
rating and 56% a Gold rating.
Page 34We achieved a 15% reduction  
in potable water intensity at our  
Bay Area headquarters, which  
is equivalent to avoiding the  
use of over 109 million liters  
(29 million gallons) of potable water.
Page 35We reached a 78% landfill 
diversion rate for our offices 
globally.
Page 35
Waste	(continued) Transportation
2.3 million pounds 
of	food	waste	avoided	33,000 tCO2e 
savings
Google avoided more than 1 million 
kilograms (2.3 million pounds) 
of waste in our cafés globally by 
tracking pre-consumer food waste 
and using this data to inform future 
production levels.
Page 36By using Google shuttles in the 
Bay Area, we saved 33,000 tCO2e 
emissions—equivalent to taking 
6,500 cars off the road every day for 
a year or avoiding 152 million vehicle 
kilometers (95 million vehicle miles) 
per year.
Page 36
Empowering users with technology
Cloud-based 	products Enabling	technologies
0
net	carbon	emissions	98%
emissions	reduction 1month  = 1mile17billion	kWh 
of	energy	savings
Organizations that move IT 
infrastructure and collaboration 
applications from a self-managed 
data center or colocation facility  
to Google Cloud reduce the net 
carbon emissions of their  
computing to zero.
Page 40A business using Gmail can reduce 
the GHG emissions impact of 
its email service by up to 98% 
compared with running email on 
local servers. 
Page 40Providing an active user one month 
of Google services creates about 
the same amount of GHG emissions 
as driving a car 1 mile.
Page 40Nest Thermostats have helped 
customers save more than  
17 billion kWh of energy 
combined, based on average 
savings studies—enough energy 
to power all of San Francisco’s 
electricity consumption for  
three years. 
Page 42
Enabling	technologies	(continued)
1	billion	km  
of	transit	results67 million  
mapped	rooftops  70,000  
vessels monitored20 petabytes  
of	geospatial	data	
Google Maps provides more than  
1 billion kilometers’ (621 million miles’) 
worth of transit results per day, 
helping limit carbon emissions  
by giving people access to mass  
transit options, bike routes, 
and traffic information.
Page 43Since 2015, Project Sunroof has 
mapped more than 67 million 
rooftops in the United States and 
Germany. More than 2 million users 
have accessed the tool to make 
informed decisions about solar  
panel installation.
Page 43Global Fishing Watch, powered by 
Google Cloud Platforms’ machine 
learning algorithms, monitors the 
planet’s fisheries and provides the 
first view over space and time, 
covering more than 70,000 of the 
largest commercial fishing vessels.
Page 43Earth Engine has enabled over 
80,000 scientists around the 
world to easily analyze 20 
petabytes of freely available 
geospatial information, resulting 
in a deeper understanding of  
the planet.
Page 442017 performance highlights
15
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approachProgress against targets
Target Deadline 2017 progress Status
Designing efficient data centers
Energy
Maintain or improve quarterly PUE at each Google data  
center, year over year.Annual The average annual PUE for our global fleet of data centers was 1.11. 
Our fleet-wide PUE has stayed at or below 1.12 since 2013.
Waste
Achieve Zero Waste to Landfill for our global data  
center operations.None We increased our global landfill diversion rate for data center 
operations by 5%—from 86% in 2016 to 91% in 2017.
Certifications
Maintain ISO 50001 energy management system 
certification for all Google-owned data centers that  
meet certain operational milestones.Annual We maintained ISO 50001 certification for 12 of our 14 operating  
data centers, which together represented more than 96% of our IT 
energy use. In 2017, our two newest facilities in the Netherlands and 
Chile successfully passed external audits to the ISO 50001 standard.
Advancing renewable energy
Energy
Match 100% of the electricity consumption of our  
operations with renewable energy purchases. 2017 Our wind and solar deals produced enough renewable energy to  
match 100% of the electricity consumption of our data centers  
and offices in 2017.
GHG	emissions
Maintain carbon neutrality for our operations. Annual We purchased enough renewable energy and high-quality carbon 
offsets to bring our net operational carbon emissions to zero. Google 
has been carbon neutral since 2007.
Creating sustainable workplaces
Certifications
Pursue third-party green or healthy-building certifications for 
office projects, such as LEED, WELL Building Standard, and 
Living Building Challenge.Annual Over 1 million square meters (11.1 million square feet) of Google office 
facilities have achieved LEED certification, with 28% achieving a 
Platinum rating and 56% a Gold rating.
GHG	emissions
Reduce single-occupancy vehicle commuting at our Bay Area 
headquarters to 45% of those commuting on any given day.None For our Bay Area headquarters, we’re on track to meeting this 
commute goal.
Provide electric vehicle charging stations for 10% of parking 
spaces at our Bay Area headquarters.None We have achieved a design standard of approximately 10% for new 
construction and tenant improvement projects in the Sunnyvale  
portion of our Bay Area headquarters.
Waste
Reduce landfill waste per Googler at our Bay Area 
headquarters by 10% in 2017, compared with a three-year 
average baseline (2014–2016).2017 We achieved a 4% reduction in landfill waste per Googler at our Bay 
Area headquarters. 
Set regional waste-reduction targets for our offices in 2017. 2017 We revised our strategy to focus on the highest-impact waste 
opportunities within our office portfolio. In 2017, we focused on 
collecting representative and robust waste audit data from our  
global offices. This effort is the foundation for understanding  
waste-performance opportunities based on office purchases,  
waste generation, and supportive local infrastructure.
Water
Reduce potable water intensity at our Bay Area headquarters 
by 10% by the end of 2017, against a three-year average 
baseline (2014–2016).122017 We exceeded this target, achieving a 15% reduction in our Bay Area 
potable water intensity. This equates to over 109 million liters  
(29 million gallons) avoided.
Set regional water-reduction targets for our offices in 2017. 2017 We revised our strategy to focus on the most water-stressed regions 
within our portfolio. In 2017, we collaborated with the World Resources 
Institute (WRI) to understand our water risk profile using the WRI 
Aqueduct tool. This effort is the foundation for understanding shared 
risk and opportunity within and outside of our global operations. 
 Achieved       On track       Ongoing       Missed 
16
Google Environmental Report 2018 Our approach17
Google Environmental Report 2018Designing 
efficient  
data centers91% 
waste diverted
In 2017, we diverted 91% of 
waste from our global data 
center operations away  
from landfills.Overview
Google’s data centers are the heart of our company, powering products like 
Search, Gmail, and YouTube for billions of people around the world, 24/7. 
We own and operate 14 data centers on four continents and continue to add 
new sites to better serve our customers. Each data center is a large campus 
where the vast majority of our facilities, servers, networking equipment, and 
cooling systems are designed from the ground up for maximum efficiency 
and minimal environmental impact.
For more than a decade, we’ve worked to make Google data centers some 
of the most efficient in the world, improving their environmental performance 
even as demand for our products has dramatically risen. We’ve done this 
by designing, building, and operating each one to maximize efficient use of 
energy, water, and materials. 
To reduce energy use, we strive to build the world’s most energy-efficient 
computing network by squeezing more out of every watt of power we 
consume. First, we outfit each data center with high-performance servers 
that we’ve custom designed to use as little energy as possible. We improve 
facility energy use by installing smart temperature and lighting controls and 
redesigning how power is distributed to reduce energy loss. We employ 
advanced cooling techniques, relying primarily on energy-efficient evaporative 
cooling, and use nonpotable water at some sites. Finally, we're applying 
machine learning to drive energy efficiency even further.
Our efforts have paid off: On average, Google data centers use 50% less 
energy than typical data centers use.13 Compared with five years ago, we now 
deliver around seven times as much computing power with the same amount 
50%
less energy
On average, a Google data 
center uses 50% less energy 
than a typical data center.DATA	CENTERS:	BY	 THE	NUMBERS
1.11  
PUE
In 2017, the average annual 
PUE for our global fleet of data 
centers was 1.11, compared 
with the industry average  
of 1.58—meaning that Google  
data centers use about five 
times less overhead energy.ISO 50001 
certification
We maintained ISO 50001  
(energy management) 
certification for 12 of our  
14 Google-owned and  
-operated data centers  
globally, which together 
represented more than 96%  
of our IT energy use in 2017.
18
Google Environmental Report 2018 Designing efficient data centersof electrical power. Much of this improvement has come from new innovations 
with accelerators, such as our Tensor Processing Units (TPUs)—highly efficient 
computer chips we designed specifically for machine learning applications.
In 2017, the average annual PUE (power usage effectiveness)14 for our global 
fleet of data centers was 1.11, compared with the industry average of 1.5815—
meaning that Google data centers use about five times less overhead energy 
for every unit of IT equipment energy (see Figure 3). Our fleet-wide PUE has 
stayed at or below 1.12 since 2013 (see Figure 4).
Generating electricity requires water, so the less energy we use to power 
our data centers, the less water we use as well. The source of energy matters 
too: Wind and solar energy require considerably less water to produce than 
do coal and nuclear energy. In 2017, matching our data center electricity 
consumption with renewable energy reduced our embedded water use by 
86% on average compared with buying grid power.
Figure	3	
OVERHEAD	ENERGY	 USE	IN	GOOGLE	DATA	 CENTERSPERCENT15 —
10 —20 —lOverhead energy  
    as % of IT energy
11%
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Figure	4
AVERAGE	PUE	FOR	 ALL	DATA	 CENTERSPUE1.22 —
1.18 —
1.14 —
1.10 —1.26 —Trailing 12-month (TTM) PUE
Quarterly PUE
1.101.11
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
19
Google Environmental Report 2018 Designing efficient data centersIn 2013, we became the first company in North America—and the only 
major internet company—to achieve a multi-site energy management system 
certification to ISO 50001, a voluntary third-party standard. Our energy 
management system covers all of our owned data centers globally once 
they meet certain operational milestones. In 2017, we maintained ISO 50001 
certification for 12 of our 14 Google-owned and -operated data centers, 
which together represented more than 96% of our IT energy use, and our two 
newest facilities in the Netherlands and Chile successfully passed external 
audits to the ISO 50001 standard.
We’re also working to design out waste, embedding circular economy 
principles into our server management by reusing materials multiple times. 
In 2017, 18% of Google’s newly deployed servers were remanufactured 
machines, and 11% of components used for machine upgrades were 
refurbished inventory. When we can’t find a new use for our equipment,  
we completely erase any components that stored data and then resell them. 
In 2017, we resold over 2.1 million units into the secondary market for reuse by 
other organizations.
We’re committed to achieving Zero Waste to Landfill16 for our global data 
center operations by reducing the amount of waste we generate and finding 
better disposal options. Six of our operating data centers have achieved 100% 
landfill diversion.17 In 2017, we diverted 91% of waste from our global data 
center operations away from landfills.Google’s repairs process at our 
data centers enables longer life 
expectancy of servers.
20
Google Environmental Report 2018 Designing efficient data centersIn addition to driving efficiency in our data center operations, we also 
consider supply chain impacts. Through the efforts of our Responsible Supply 
Chain program, we collaborate with stakeholders across our supply chain to 
uphold our high standards for protecting workers and the environment. Our 
Supplier Code of Conduct builds upon Google’s core values and beliefs and 
incorporates key elements from our internal employee Code of Conduct, 
international human rights standards, health and safety standards, and 
environmental standards.
Google has saved more than $1 billion through our energy-efficiency 
initiatives and hundreds of millions more through resource efficiency.  
By sharing our best practices and supporting research and collaboration,  
we hope to help other companies realize their own savings and promote 
ever-greater data center sustainability worldwide.
Google’s investment in digital infrastructure, such as data centers, also 
supports sustainable growth and creates economic opportunity. In 2016, 
Google’s U.S. data centers generated $1.3 billion in economic activity,  
$750 million in labor income, and 11,000 jobs.18 From 2007 to 2017, Google’s 
data center investments in Europe supported economic activity with 
€490 million per year in gross domestic product (GDP) and 6,600 full-time 
equivalent (FTE) jobs per year, on average.19 
LEARN	MORE
2016	case	study:	 Circular	Economy	at	 Work	in	 Google	Data	 Centers
2016 spotlight: Machine	Learning	Finds	New	 Ways	for	Our	Data	 Centers	to	 Save	Energy
2018 spotlight: Once	Is	Never	Enough
2018 spotlight: Putting	Down	Local	Roots	 Where	Google’s	European	Data	 
Centers Are Growing
2018	report:	European	Data	 Centers:	Economic	Impact	and	 Community	Benefit
2018	report:	 U.S.	Data	 Centers:	Economic	Impact	and	 Community	Benefit
Google Data Centers website: Efficiency:	How	 We	Do	It
Website: 	Responsible Supply ChainGoogle’s data center investments 
in Europe supported economic 
activity with 
€490
million per year in GDP.
21
Google Environmental Report 2018 Designing efficient data centersOn-site solar facility at Google’s data center  
in Saint-Ghislain, BelgiumSpotlight
Positive energy: Belgian site 
becomes first Google data 
center to add on-site solar
What do you do when your data center is devoted to increasing energy 
efficiency, but it’s already one of the most energy efficient in the world? 
Start creating your own energy, of course.
This was the conclusion reached by Google data center engineers in 
Saint-Ghislain, Belgium, who in 2016 proposed constructing an on-site solar 
facility. While Google is already the world’s largest corporate purchaser of 
renewable energy—in 2017, we matched 100% of electricity use from our 
operations with renewable energy purchases—the Saint-Ghislain solar plant 
is the first solar plant we’ve built on a data center site.
Launched in October 2017, the solar plant’s 10,665 photovoltaic panels 
generate 2.9 gigawatt-hours (GWh) of clean, reliable, renewable energy 
each year, reducing electricity demand from the Belgian electrical grid  
and shrinking the site’s carbon footprint. Even though the plant meets  
a relatively small percentage of the site’s total power needs, “anything  
we can do to reduce our consumption of utility energy is significant,”  
says Alain Deprez, facility manager for the Saint-Ghislain site. 
In advocating for the solar project, the engineers promoted the role that 
small-scale renewable projects can play in local communities. The best way 
to move forward is to continually ask, What’s next?
Read	about	 Saint-Ghislain’s	on-site	solar	project
22
Google Environmental Report 2018 Designing efficient data centers23
Google Environmental Report 2018Advancing 
renewable 
energyRENEWABLE	ENERGY:	BY	 THE	NUMBERSOverview
Running our business requires us to use a lot of electricity to power our data 
centers, offices, and other infrastructure. And combating climate change 
requires the world to transition to a clean energy economy. So we’ve made 
it a top priority to become more energy efficient and to match every unit 
of energy we consume at our facilities around the world with an equivalent 
unit of energy from renewable sources, such as wind and solar. Our support 
for clean energy goes hand in hand with reducing our carbon footprint. By 
improving the efficiency of our operations and buying both renewable power 
and high-quality carbon offsets, we’ve been carbon neutral since 2007.
Google is the world’s largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy20 
(see Figure 5). Since 2010, we’ve signed 26 agreements to purchase a total  
of nearly 3 GW of renewable energy that is new to the grid (see Figure 6)— 
generating emissions savings that are equivalent to taking more than 1.3 
million cars off the road per year. And in 2012, we set a long-term goal to 
purchase enough renewable energy to match all the electricity we consume 
globally on an annual basis.
In 2017, we achieved it: Google’s total purchase of energy from sources like 
wind and solar exceeded the amount of electricity used by our operations 
around the world, including offices and data centers (see Figure 7). While 
we’re still drawing power from the grid, some of which is from fossil fuel 
resources, we’re purchasing enough wind and solar energy to match every 
megawatt-hour (MWh) of electricity our data center and office operations 
consume annually.
3 GW   
of renewable energy
Google is the world’s largest 
corporate purchaser of 
renewable energy. We’ve 
signed 26 agreements totaling 
nearly 3 GW of renewable 
energy—generating emissions 
savings equivalent to taking 
more than 1.3 million cars off 
the road per year.11 years
of carbon neutrality
Google has been carbon 
neutral since 2007. Because 
of our renewable energy and 
carbon offset programs, our net 
operational carbon emissions 
during this period were zero.100 %
renewable energy
In 2017, we matched 100% of 
the electricity consumption of 
our operations with purchases 
of renewable energy.$2.5 billion
in investment commitments
Since 2010, we’ve committed 
to invest nearly $2.5 billion in 
renewable energy projects 
with a total combined capacity 
of 3.7 GW.
24
Google Environmental Report 2018 Advancing renewable energyFigure	5	
CUMULATIVE	 CORPORATE	RENEWABLE	ENERGY	PURCHASING* 	
*In Europe, the United States, and Mexico, as of December 31, 2017. Google total also includes one 80 MW project in Chile.
Source: Bloomberg New Energy Finance0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000Google LLC
Amazon
Microsoft Corp
Apple Inc
Norsk Hydro ASA
Facebook
ACT Government
U.S. Department  
of Defense
Vivens
Walmart
Dow Chemical
Equinix
Ikea Group Corp
General Motors Co
Alcoa Corp
Kaiser Permanenten Solar 
n Wind
n Biomass  
n Fuel cells 
n Small hydro 
Minco II wind farm in Oklahoma (101 MW for Google)
MW
25
Google Environmental Report 2018 Advancing renewable energyWe achieved our 100% renewable energy target much faster and at much 
greater scale than we thought possible when we set this goal six years ago. 
We met it primarily by buying renewable electricity directly from new wind 
and solar farms via long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) on the 
grids where we have operations, as well as by buying renewable power 
through utilities via renewable energy purchasing models that we helped 
create. In addition, a small portion of our utility energy purchases include 
renewable sources as part of the utility’s grid mix.21 With our PPAs, we’re 
purchasing physical renewable energy, which includes the electrons bundled 
with renewable energy certificates (RECs).
By pioneering new energy purchasing models that others can follow, 
we’ve helped drive wide-scale adoption of clean energy. For example, we 
joined forces with three leading Dutch companies—AkzoNobel, DSM, and 
Philips—to source power from two new wind projects in the Netherlands. 
Our long-term collaboration offers a successful and replicable model 
for how companies can save time and money and meet ever-growing 
sustainability targets in a scalable way by jointly sourcing renewable  
power. Our efforts earned Google two 2017 Green Power Leadership 
Awards: one in Green Power Market Development from the Center for
Figure	6	
RENEWABLE	ENERGY	FOR	 GOOGLE’S	 OPERATIONS
Since 2010, Google has signed  
26 agreements to purchase a total  
of nearly 3 GW of renewable energy 
that is new to the grid.
26
Google Environmental Report 2018 Advancing renewable energyResource Solutions and one in Excellence in Green Power Use from the  
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
We’re also helping to green the power grid through our advocacy of 
clean energy policies and our support for renewable energy procurement 
programs. For example, we worked with business and government 
stakeholders in Taiwan to share our experience with the benefits of corporate 
renewable energy purchasing and to support the creation of new purchasing 
channels for companies. We were pleased to see that Taiwan passed a law in 
January 2017 to allow end-users to directly purchase renewable energy for 
their operations.
Along with being the world’s largest corporate purchaser of renewable 
energy, Google is also one of the world’s largest corporate investors in 
renewable energy. Since 2010, we’ve committed to invest nearly $2.5 billion 
in large-scale renewable energy projects and residential solar rooftop funds 
with a combined capacity of 3.7 GW. These targeted investments go beyond 
our own operational footprint, enabling renewable energy deployment at  
a larger scale while generating attractive risk-adjusted returns.ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (TWh)Figure	7	
RENEWABLE	ENERGY	PURCHASING	 COMPARED	 WITH	TOTAL	ELECTRICITY	 USE
6 —7 —
5 —
4 —
3 —
2 —
1 —n Total electricity  
consumption (TWh)
n Renewable energy %34%35%37%48%61%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20178 —100 %
27
Google Environmental Report 2018 Advancing renewable energyThe cost of renewable power has dropped precipitously, while its scale 
has grown dramatically. Over the past eight years, levelized costs for wind 
and solar energy have decreased by 67% and 86%, respectively.22 In 2015, 
wind and solar energy became the world’s largest source of newly installed 
power capacity,23 and in 2017, 70% of net new power capacity globally came 
from renewable energy.24 Renewables have become a mainstream source of 
affordable electricity for millions of people.
Increasing the share of renewables on the grid will produce many positive 
impacts. For example, doubling renewables by 2030 is expected to increase 
global GDP by as much as 1.1%, improve global welfare by 3.7%, and employ 
more than 24 million people in the renewable energy sector.25 In fact,  
Google’s renewable energy purchasing contracts have led to over $3 billion  
in new capital investment around the world.26 At Google, we’ll continue 
doing our best to help accelerate the transition to clean energy and a more 
prosperous future.
LEARN	MORE
2016 white paper: Achieving	 Our	100%	Renewable	Energy	Purchasing	 Goal	and	 Going	Beyond
2016 spotlight: Greening	the	 Grid:	How	 Google	Buys	Renewable	Energy
2017 spotlight: Northern	Exposure:	How	 Our	Nordic	Renewable	Deals	 Are	Reaping	Rewards
2018 blog post: Meeting	 Our	Match:	Buying	100	Percent	Renewable	Energy
Minco II wind farm in Oklahoma (101 MW for Google)
28
Google Environmental Report 2018 Advancing renewable energyFigure	8	
GROSS	 GHG	EMISSIONS  
(WITHOUT	RENEWABLE	ENERGY	PURCHASES)Figure	9	
NET	GHG	EMISSIONS  
(WITH	RENEWABLE	ENERGY	PURCHASES)MILLION t CO2e
n Scope 1 
n Scope 2 (location)
n Scope 2 (market)27
n Scope 3
lTotal location-based  
GHG emissions
lTotal market-based  
GHG emissions
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20176,086,962  tCO2e
3,294,905  tCO2e6 —7 —
5 —
4 —
3 —
2 —
1 —
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017Our carbon footprint
We began calculating our annual carbon footprint in 2006. Every year since 
2009, we’ve publicly reported the results to CDP, a global organization that 
asks companies to disclose information on their GHG emissions performance 
and management. Our report received an A score from CDP for the past four 
years, and for the past three years, we earned a spot on CDP’s Climate A List, 
which recognizes top reporting companies.
In 2017, our gross GHG emissions were 6.1 million tCO2e, but because  
of our renewable energy purchases, our net GHG emissions were reduced  
to 3.3 million tCO2e (see Figures 8 and 9). Our Scope 3 emissions doubled 
in 2017 due to an increase in our capital expenditures and our hardware 
business. After accounting for our carbon offset purchases, our net 
operational carbon emissions were zero.
Because of our emissions-reduction efforts, our carbon intensity has 
steadily decreased even as our company has grown and our energy use has 
correspondingly increased. Over the past six years, our carbon intensity per unit 
of revenue decreased by 87% (see Figure 10), our carbon intensity per full-time 
29
Google Environmental Report 2018 Advancing renewable energyFigure	11	
CARBON	INTENSITY	PER	FTE	EMPLOYEEtCO2e/FTE40 —60 —
20 —
THOUSANDS — 60 — 80
 — 40l Carbon intensity
lAverage FTE  
    employees
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20177.675,750Figure	10
CARBON	INTENSITY	PER	 UNIT	OF	REVENUEtCO2e/MILLION US$30 —40 —50 —
20 —
10 —
BILLION US$ — 83 — 120
 — 47
l Carbon intensity
lTotal revenue
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20175.2$110.9 
billionequivalent employee decreased by 85% (see Figure 11), and our carbon 
intensity for electricity used at our data centers dropped by 91%. This means 
we’re delivering our products and services with decreased carbon impacts, 
even before using carbon offsets to reach neutrality.
A decade of carbon neutrality
In 2007, Google committed to being carbon neutral, and we’ve met this goal 
every year since then. We reach carbon neutrality via three steps. First, we 
work to reduce our total energy consumption by pursuing aggressive energy-
efficiency initiatives. Second, we match 100% of the electricity consumption 
of our operations with purchases of renewable energy. Third, we buy carbon 
offsets for any remaining emissions we haven’t yet eliminated.28
30
Google Environmental Report 2018 Advancing renewable energyWhen we committed to carbon neutrality, we saw carbon offsets as an 
interim solution. As we further improve our energy efficiency and procure 
more renewable energy, our need for carbon offsets will continue to decrease.
When we do purchase carbon offsets, we follow stringent principles. 
We invest in high-quality, third-party-verified offsets, including landfill gas 
projects and animal waste management systems. All our offsets are additional, 
meaning that the projects reduce GHG emissions that wouldn’t be reduced 
through other incentives. We also ensure that the projects we invest in 
are permanent sources of carbon reduction or sequestration, rather than 
temporary solutions. Finally, whenever possible, we invest for the long term, 
which offers owners and developers the financial stability they need to 
continue operating.
Google has been carbon neutral for more than a decade, and in that time, 
we’ve partnered with more than 40 carbon offset projects to offset more 
than 17 million tCO2e.29 We look forward to continuing to work toward net  
zero carbon in the decade to come.  
LEARN	MORE
2011 white paper: Google’s	 Carbon	 Offsets:	 Collaboration	and	Due	Diligence
2017 white paper: 10	 Years	of	 Carbon	Neutrality
2017 spotlight: Capturing	 Value	from	Waste	in	 Upstate	New	 York
El Romero solar farm in Chile (80 MW for Google)
31
Google Environmental Report 2018 Advancing renewable energyFlares destroy methane gas at Oneida-Herkimer Regional Landfill in New 
York.
Google’s data center in Singapore,  
one of our two sites in AsiaSpotlight
Unlocking access to corporate 
renewable energy purchasing 
in Taiwan
In many markets around the world, electricity providers don’t offer 
renewable energy options to their customers. You’re stuck with whatever 
kind of electricity they provide.
In 2015, Google began asking for something dramatically different for 
our data center in Taiwan—the opportunity to buy renewable energy 
directly from a specific generating facility. We did this both to mitigate 
our carbon footprint and because renewable energy makes good business 
sense. By purchasing electricity from renewable sources like wind and 
solar, which have no fuel inputs, we can set a long-term fixed price  
for power and gain access to an increasingly cost-competitive source  
of electricity. 
In January 2017, after two years of careful consideration, the Taiwanese 
government amended its Electricity Act to allow direct renewable energy 
purchasing for customers. The first of its kind in Asia, the legislation 
represents a potentially seismic shift in Taiwan’s approach to energy— 
and opens the door for companies looking to expand infrastructure while 
advancing a clean energy future. 
It’s also a prime example of how we champion clean energy policies and 
market solutions around the world.
Read	how	we’re	laying	the	groundwork	 for	a	clean	energy	 future
32
Google Environmental Report 2018 Advancing renewable energyCentral staircase in Google’s Fulton Market 
office in Chicago, Illinois
33
Google Environmental Report 2018Creating 
sustainable 
workplacesOverview
Americans spend roughly 90% of their time indoors, and much of that time 
is spent at work.30 At Google, just as we focus on users when it comes to 
designing our products, we also focus on users when creating healthy and 
sustainable workplaces—from our Bay Area headquarters to our offices in 
more than 160 cities spanning nearly 60 countries around the world. To do 
so, we look for innovative ideas that deliver measurable results and can be 
implemented at scale.    
We start by applying industry-leading green building standards wherever 
possible. By the end of 2017, over 1 million square meters (11.1 million square 
feet) of Google office facilities had achieved LEED certification, with 28%  
of our LEED-certified square footage achieving a Platinum rating and 56%  
a Gold rating (see Figure 12). 
We also have a strong focus on the material selections for our spaces 
and work to ensure that they are safe for humans and the environment 
throughout their life cycle. We believe an industry-wide transition to healthier 
materials is on the horizon. Making safer materials the new norm will require 
collective action across sectors, increased access to high-quality data that 
assesses chemical hazards, a demand signal (from buyers like Google) 
to material and product manufacturers, and advancements in recycling 
technology and infrastructure.
We take a science- and community-driven approach to managing our 
campuses, with the aim of restoring the local ecology while improving access 
to the outdoors for Google employees and the surrounding community.  
By the end of 2017, we had implemented our science-based Habitat Design 
Guidelines on 84 acres across our Bay Area headquarters.
11.1 million
square feet LEED-certified
By the end of 2017, over  
1 million square meters  
(11.1 million square feet) of 
Google office facilities had 
achieved LEED certification.SUSTAINABLE	 WORKPLACES:	BY	 THE	NUMBERS
33,000
tCO2e savings
By using Google shuttles in 
the Bay Area in 2017, we saved 
33,000 tCO2e emissions—
equivalent to taking 6,500 cars 
off the road every day for a year 
or avoiding 152 million vehicle 
kilometers (95 million vehicle 
miles) per year.29 million
gallons avoided
In 2017, we achieved a 15% 
reduction in potable water 
intensity at our Bay Area 
headquarters, which is equivalent 
to avoiding the use of over  
109 million liters (29 million 
gallons) of potable water.78%
landfill diversion 
In 2017, we reached a 78% 
landfill diversion rate for our  
offices globally. 
34
Google Environmental Report 2018 Creating sustainable workplacesFigure	12	
CUMULATIVE	LEED-CERTIFIED	 OFFICE	 SPACEMILLION SQUARE METERS (m2)
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20170.8 —1     —1.2 —
0.6 —
0.4 —
0.2 —n Platinum 
nGold
nCertified and Silver28%
56%
16%1,034,876 m2 
We reduce our water footprint by installing water-saving technologies 
and using reclaimed water wherever possible. In 2017, we achieved a 15% 
reduction in potable water intensity at our Bay Area headquarters, which is 
equivalent to avoiding the use of over 109 million liters (29 million gallons) of 
potable water. We also collaborated with WRI to analyze our water risk profile 
using the WRI Aqueduct tool. Over the past year, we’ve evolved our approach 
to global goal setting to focus on the highest-impact opportunities. We’re 
now targeting our work at Google offices in highly water-stressed locations 
and in offices that are supported by recycling and composting infrastructure.
We implement strategies to minimize contamination in our office waste 
streams and identify diversion pathways that keep the waste we do generate 
out of landfills. In 2017, we reached 78% landfill diversion for our offices 
globally and reduced landfill waste per Googler by 4% at our Bay Area 
headquarters. We tracked waste generation for global offices that represent 
42% of Google’s total headcount. 
35
Google Environmental Report 2018 Creating sustainable workplacesOur cafés and Food Spots offer nutritious, responsibly sourced meals, 
snacks, and beverages.31  We make thoughtful choices in the products we 
buy and the suppliers we buy them from. Our sustainability priorities include 
food waste prevention, sustainable hydration initiatives to encourage the 
use of reusable vessels for drinking water, and promoting balanced, plant-
forward offerings—all of which help reduce our environmental impact and 
support the well-being of our users. We compost and donate leftover food 
wherever we’re legally able to do so, but we’ve learned that the best way to 
reduce food waste is to prevent it in the first place by tracking data and using 
it to make adjustments. In 2017, this sort of data-driven optimization helped 
Google avoid more than 1 million kilograms (2.3 million pounds) of food waste 
in our cafés around the world. 
Our Transportation team works to make commuting and campus mobility 
a stress-free part of every employee’s day. We set ambitious goals for 
helping Googlers transition to shuttles, carpooling, public transit, biking, and 
walking. In 2017, our Bay Area headquarters remained on track to meet our 
long-term goal to reduce single-occupancy vehicle commuting to 45%. We 
also achieved a design standard of providing approximately 10% of parking 
with electric vehicle charging stations for new construction and tenant 
improvement projects in the Sunnyvale portion of our Bay Area headquarters. 
Our Google shuttle buses in the Bay Area produced savings of more than 
33,000 tCO2e emissions—the equivalent of taking 6,500 cars off the road 
every day for a year or avoiding 152 million vehicle kilometers (95 million 
vehicle miles) per year. 
In 2017, we avoided  
more than
1million
kilograms of food waste  
in our cafés around  
the world.
Google has installed more than 2,000 electric vehicle 
charging ports at our offices in the United States.
36
Google Environmental Report 2018 Creating sustainable workplacesBecause sustainability is part of our culture, we give our employees 
opportunities to engage on environmental issues and put their passions 
into practice. Our Bay Area headquarters and many of our global offices 
host annual events to celebrate Earth Day and World Environment Day, 
where we share how Googlers can be sustainable at work, at home, and in 
their communities. We also host an internal awards ceremony to recognize 
Googlers around the world who are driving sustainability across the company. 
Throughout the year we invite thought leaders and experts to speak on the 
latest trends, achievements, and challenges related to sustainability, some 
of which are posted on the Talks at Google YouTube channel. Our employees 
constantly reinvigorate our determination to build a better future. As we 
continue to explore sustainability strategies, we’re committed to sharing what 
we learn with other companies in order to help foster the growth of more 
productive, environmentally friendly businesses.
LEARN	MORE	
2018	report:	 The	Role	of	 Safe	Chemistry	and	Healthy	Materials	in	 Unlocking	the	
Circular	Economy
YouTube	channel:	 Talks	at	 GoogleGooglers learn about sustainable 
transportation at Google Environment Day.
37
Google Environmental Report 2018 Creating sustainable workplacesSpotlight
Ecologically focused 
landscapes are coming to  
life on Google campuses
In 2013, we started work on our first major urban ecology project— 
a planned bike and pedestrian trail system on our Mountain View campus 
called the Green Loop. We incorporated cutting-edge science and 
data to create a landscape rich with ecological potential. Our team of 
internal designers and external partners—including ecologists, landscape 
architects, planners, and nongovernmental organizations—worked hand  
in hand to identify and select the right mix of native plant species. In total, 
we planted 1.4 acres of native vegetation that created or enhanced habitat 
for birds and other wildlife.
In the years since, we’ve launched other urban ecology projects across 
our Mountain View campus. We’ve designed the projects to work in 
concert, carefully selecting every flower, tree, shrub, and structure for  
its additive value to our campus ecology and local ecosystems. 
Individually, the projects are improving diversity of species and  
expanding valuable habitats. Together, they’re helping create a more 
resilient ecosystem that can endure and evolve with the changing 
climate—part of our efforts to incorporate resilience science across 
Google’s outdoor spaces. 
Learn	how	 Google	is	using	resilience	science	to	transform	 
our	campus	landscapesCharleston Retention Basin on 
the edge of Google’s campus 
in Mountain View, California
38
Google Environmental Report 2018 Creating sustainable workplaces39
Google Environmental Report 201839Empowering 
users with 
technologyOverview
A global challenge requires a global response. We strive to meet the vast 
challenge posed by climate change by working to empower everyone—
businesses, governments, nonprofit organizations, communities, and 
individuals—to use Google technology to help create a more sustainable  
and resource-efficient world.
Google Cloud Platform and G Suite products like Gmail, Docs, and Drive 
are enabling millions of businesses to shift computing needs to Google 
Cloud’s highly efficient, renewable energy–based computing infrastructure. 
By moving IT infrastructure and collaboration applications from a self-
managed data center or colocation facility to Google Cloud, the net carbon 
emissions directly associated with those workloads is zero. Businesses that 
switch to cloud-based products like G Suite have reported reductions in IT 
energy use and carbon emissions up to 85%,32 and a business using Gmail 
can reduce the GHG emissions impact of its email service by up to 98%, 
compared with running email via on-premises servers.33 Individual users 
also benefit, since providing an active user one month of Google services 
creates about the same amount of GHG emissions as driving a car 1 mile.34
Google has made it a company-level goal to increase the sustainability 
and circularity of our consumer electronic products, operations, and 
communities. In October 2017, we launched a suite of new Google-branded 
products, including the Google Pixel 2 and Google Pixel 2 XL, Google Home, 
Google Home Max and Google Home Mini, Google Pixelbook, and Google 
Daydream View . For many of these products, we released a report that 
provides an overview of the product’s environmental impact in areas such 
as material composition, life cycle GHG emissions, and energy efficiency. 
0  
net carbon emissions
Organizations that move IT 
infrastructure and collaboration 
applications from a self-
managed data center or 
colocation facility to Google 
Cloud reduce the net carbon 
emissions of their computing 
to zero. TECHNOLOGY:	BY	 THE	NUMBERS
20 petabytes
of geospatial data
Earth Engine has enabled over 
80,000 scientists around the 
world to easily analyze 20 
petabytes of freely available 
geospatial information, resulting 
in a deeper understanding of  
the planet.17 billion kWh 
of energy savings
Nest Thermostats have helped 
customers save more than 17 
billion kWh of energy combined, 
based on studies of average 
savings—enough energy to 
power all of San Francisco’s 
electricity consumption for  
three years. 1 billion km  
of transit results
Google Maps provides more 
than 1 billion kilometers’  
(621 million miles’) worth of 
transit results per day, helping 
limit carbon emissions by giving 
people access to mass transit 
options, bike routes, and traffic 
information.
40
Google Environmental Report 2018 Empowering users with technologyWe also support greener electronics standards and certifications, including 
UL110, IEEE 1680.1, and the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment  
Tool (EPEAT).35
We want to ensure that the materials and substances used for our Google-
branded products are safe for people and the environment, can be reused to 
create future products, and retain economic value. One of the keys to unlocking 
the circular economy will be safer chemistry from the start, so for the first 
time we published our Restricted Substances Specification to ensure the use of 
safer materials across our products. To date, we’ve shipped millions of devices 
made with post-consumer recycled plastic. Products like the Nest Thermostat E, 
Google Home, and Chromecast  all contain parts with 20%–75% post-consumer 
recycled plastic content. We think it’s critical to create demand for recycled 
materials to accelerate the transition to a circular economy. Going forward, 
we are committed to expanding the use of sustainable materials across our 
portfolio of products. We’re also making it easier for customers to responsibly 
recycle devices for free via our U.S. take-back program for all products and via 
our U.S. Pixel trade-in program.Google Home Max uses machine learning 
to match the acoustics of the room. 
41
Google Environmental Report 2018 Empowering users with technologyOur products also enable customers to be more thoughtful about their 
impact. The Nest Learning Thermostat controls residential heating and 
cooling systems, reduces home energy consumption, and helps achieve 
collective savings. By the end of 2017, Nest Thermostats had helped 
customers save more than 17 billion kWh of energy combined  
(see Figure 13), based on average savings studies—enough energy  
to power all of San Francisco’s electricity consumption for three years.  
That’s equivalent to avoiding 5.7 million tCO2e of emissions.
Nest’s Rush Hour Rewards program works in partnership with utilities 
to reduce energy use during times of peak demand. During the 2017 solar 
eclipse, Nest launched a special Rush Hour program with an opt-in feature 
that allowed Nest Thermostats to automatically pre-cool customers’ homes, 
reducing demand on the grid at a time when solar energy production dropped 
by thousands of megawatts. More than 750,000 Nest Thermostats worked 
together across the United States to reduce energy demand by 700 MW.36 
Our commitments go beyond the consumer electronic products we make.  
Our Responsible Supply Chain program works with suppliers across our 
supply chain to protect workers and the environment. Our Supplier Code of 
Conduct articulates our expectations for suppliers and is based on Google’s 
employee Code of Conduct and on international human rights standards, 
safety standards, and environmental standards. 
42
Google Environmental Report 2018 Empowering users with technologyFigure	13	
HOUSEHOLD	ENERGY	 SAVED	BY	NEST	 THERMOSTAT	 USERSTHOUSAND GWh
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20174 —5 —6 —
3 —
2 —
1 —7 ,210 GWh  
7 —8 —
nSavings per yearGoogle Maps provides more than 1 billion kilometers’ (621 million miles’) 
worth of transit results per day, helping limit carbon emissions by giving 
people access to mass transit options, bike routes, and traffic information. 
We also put Google technology to work helping others study and respond 
to environmental challenges. Our Geo team is working with numerous 
research and nonprofit organizations to map the world’s forests, oceans, 
watersheds, and air quality—and even to create a global database of  
power plants. We then work on getting that information into the hands of 
decision-makers. 
In 2017, Project Sunroof expanded coverage beyond the United States 
into Germany, mapping 67 million rooftops across 8,900 cities, which 
enabled over 2 million users to make informed decisions about solar panel 
installation. For three regions in California, Project Air View released heat 
maps with hyper-local air quality information that contained hundreds of 
millions of ambient air quality data points measured by the Google Street 
View cars equipped with air quality sensors. Global Fishing Watch (GFW)  
scaled to process over 60 million automatic identification system messages  
per day, enabling the number of fishing vessels displayed on the platform  
to reach 70,000. Insights gleaned from the GFW platform were leveraged to 
help create five marine protected areas. These tools—along with  
Global Surface Water Explorer , Global Forest Watch, the DiSARM platform  
for malaria risk mapping, and PowerExplorer —were built with close partners 
and experts in the field to provide critical information and solutions to 
global challenges. 
Rooftop solar provides renewable energy to a 
community in Manchester, England. Project Sunroof 
expanded coverage to the United Kingdom in 2018.In 2017, Project Sunroof mapped
67 million
rooftops across 8,900 cities in the 
United States and Germany.
43
Google Environmental Report 2018 Empowering users with technologyGoogle Earth was launched in 2017 as a web and mobile application, 
after nearly 10 years as a desktop application, and it’s used globally 
by millions to explore the planet. With a specific focus on education, 
the new Google Earth is helping tell stories and raise awareness of our 
planet and environment with a much broader audience. While Google 
Earth is for exploration, Google Earth Engine is focused on analysis and 
creating new knowledge. Earth Engine provides researchers with simple 
access to Google’s massive cloud and computational capabilities for 
large-scale geospatial analysis; it includes 20 petabytes’ worth of freely 
available geospatial data that provide valuable information to scientists, 
environmental organizations, and communities working to devise more 
informed solutions.
LEARN	MORE
2017	report:	 Cities	in	the	 Circular	Economy:	 The	Role	of	Digital	 Technology
2018	report:	 Circular	 Consumer	Electronics:	 An	Initial	Exploration
2018	reports:	Product	Environmental	reports
Guidelines: Restricted	 Substances	 Specification
Websites: 	Google Cloud Environment and Google Cloud Renewable Energy
Google Earth image of Naples, Florida
© DigitalGlobe
44
Google Environmental Report 2018 Empowering users with technologySpotlight
Transparency unleashed: 
How Global Fishing Watch 
is transforming fishery 
management
Home to one of the world’s richest arrays of sharks, giant manta rays, 
and humpback whales, Mexico’s Revillagigedo Archipelago is also a hub 
of Mexico’s commercial tuna fishing industry—or so the industry has long 
claimed in arguments against protecting the surrounding waters. 
In 2017, Global Fishing Watch (GFW) put that claim to the test. The 
cutting-edge transparency platform uses Google technology to track the 
locations and behaviors of commercial fishing fleets, helping to create an 
accurate picture of global fishing activity. Using the GFW platform and 
vessel tracks for the region, the National Geographic Pristine Seas program 
and other researchers found that Revillagigedo accounted for only 4% of 
Mexico’s tuna catch, far less than the 20% cited by the industry.  
“Using GFW was a game changer for us because, for the first time, 
we were able to bring transparent data to the negotiating table,” says 
Enric Sala, who fights to protect the ocean’s last wild places as executive 
director of National Geographic’s Pristine Seas. 
From helping establish “no-take” marine reserves like Revillagigedo—
now the largest marine protected area in North America—to cracking 
down on illegal fishing in Indonesian waters, researchers, governments, 
and fishery organizations have started using the GFW platform and data  
in historic new ways. The goal is nothing short of revolutionary: harness 
the power of data transparency to protect our oceans.  
Read	how	 GFW	is	bringing	data	transparency	to	the	high	seas
The Revillagigedo Archipelago in Mexico  
was officially designated a 57,000-square-mile  
no-take National Park in 2017.
Photo: Enric Sala / National Geographic
45
Google Environmental Report 2018 Empowering users with technology46
Google Environmental Report 201846AppendixKey	performance	indicator Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions38
Scope 1*, †tCO2e 37,187 41,373 51,802 66,991 66,218 66,549
Scope 2 (market-based)*, †, 39tCO2e 1,149,988 1,245,253 1,460,762 1,384,427 1,518,643 509,334
Scope 2 (location-based)*, †tCO2e 1,654,645 1,831,142 2,198,821 2,450,438 2,902,554 3,301,392
Scope 3*, †tCO2e 332,612 479,388 980,783 1,234,683 1,292,267 2,719,022
Total (Scope 1, 2 [market-based], and 3) tCO2e 1,519,787 1,766,014 2,493,347 2,686,101 2,877,128 3,294,905
Emissions neutralized by carbon  
offset projectstCO2e–1,519,787 –1,766,014 –2,493,347 –2,686,101 –1,898,889 -931,942
Net operational carbon emissions40tCO2e 0 0 0 0 0 0
Carbon intensity41
Carbon intensity per unit of revenue tCO2e/million 
US$25.8 23.2 22.9 19.4 17.6 5.19
Carbon intensity per full-time 
equivalent (FTE) employeetCO2e/FTE 33.8 31.9 31.0 25.0 23.4 7.6
Carbon intensity per megawatt-hour 
(MWh) of electricity consumed at  
data centerstCO2e/MWh 0.337 0.325 0.316 0.242 0.227 0.049Environmental data
The following table provides an overview of our performance over time and 
includes environmental data for our global operations, including our data 
centers, offices, and other facilities.
Data for GHG emissions and energy use covers Alphabet Inc. and all of  
its subsidiaries, including Google LLC. The exceptions are the figures for  
data center energy efficiency and renewable energy, which cover Google 
only. All other data applies only to Google and is global unless otherwise 
specified. 
For more information on our energy use and GHG emissions data and 
initiatives, see Alphabet’s 2018 CDP Climate Change Report.
Fiscal	year37
47
Google Environmental Report 2018 AppendixKey	performance	indicator Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Energy use
Total energy consumption42MWh 3,547,045 3,970,438 4,702,387 5,533,433 6,513,719 8,029,409
Electricity consumption* MWh 3,324,818 3,712,865 4,434,390 5,221,476 6,209,191 7,609,088
U.S. MWh 2,326,210 2,562,688 2,985,108 3,779,280 4,522,314 5,533,782
International MWh 998,608 1,150,177 1,449,282 1,442,196 1,686,877 2,075,306
Data	center	energy	efficiency
Trailing 12-month (TTM) power usage 
effectiveness (PUE)43 TTM PUE 1.12 1.12 1.12 1.12 1.12 1.11
Data center sites included in  
ISO 50001 certificate# 0 9 9 12 12 12
% of IT energy use represented by 
data centers included in ISO 50001 
certificate% – – – – 98 96
Renewable energy
Total cumulative renewable energy 
contracts, in megawatts (MW)MW 263 634 1,147 2,121 2,611 2,960
% of total electricity obtained from 
renewable sources44% 34 35 37 48 6145, 46 100
Waste generation
Total waste generated annually Tons – – – 50,050 45,705 56,575
Waste	diversion
Annual landfill diversion rate 
for data centers47%– – –84 86 91
Annual landfill diversion rate for offices % – – – 78 78 78
Annual food waste prevented in cafés Kilograms – – – 229,971 702,865 1,060,456
Hardware	refurbishment	and	reuse
Servers deployed that were 
remanufactured machines% – – – 19 36 18
Components used for machine 
upgrades that were refurbished 
inventory48% – – – 52 22 11
Components resold into the  
secondary market# – – – 2,000,000 2,100,000 2,114,567
Unsellable hard drives crushed and 
sent to recycler% – – – 100 100 100
Water consumption
Total annual water consumption49Million gallons – – – – 2,500 3,071Fiscal	yearEnvironmental data
48
Google Environmental Report 2018 Appendix*  Indicates verified data. Scope 1, 2, and part of Scope 3 emissions are verified by an independent, accredited verifier. Our electricity use is also part of our  
Scope 2 verification. 
†  Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from sources we own or control, such as company vehicles or generators at Google’s offices and data centers.
 Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the production of electricity we purchase to run our operations. The location-based category reflects the average carbon 
intensity of the grids where our operations are located and thus where our energy consumption occurs. The market-based category incorporates our procurement 
choices, i.e., our renewable energy purchases via contractual mechanisms like PPAs.
 Scope 3 emissions are indirect emissions from other sources in our value chain, such as business travel or our suppliers. Key	performance	indicator Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Sustainable workplaces
Offices
Cumulative LEED-certified  
office space, in square meters (m2)m2156,894 313,209 462,395 711,626 865,494 1,034,876
Gold % 75 63 59 58 54 56
Platinum % 19 23 26 31 34 28
Commuting
Cumulative electric vehicle (EV) 
charging ports installed at Google 
offices in the United States50Ports 415 601 988 1,382 1,646 2,077
Estimated annual emissions avoided 
due to employee EV commuting in  
the United StatestCO2e 148 483 929 1,489 2,142 2,891
Total annual employee shuttle 
commuting trips in the Bay AreaTotal trips 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 3,500,000 3,750,000 3,800,000
Peak daily employee shuttle riders in 
the Bay AreaUnique riders 5,000 6,000 7,500 8,500 9,000 10,000
Annual emissions avoided due to 
employee shuttle trips in the Bay AreatCO2e 7,858 10,065 18,856 28,901 33,656 33,241
Equity investments in renewable energy projects51
Cumulative commitments,  
in gigawatts (GW)GW 1.9 2.4 2.7 3.7 3.7 3.7
Empowering users with technology
Household energy saved by Nest 
Thermostat users, in gigawatt-hours 
(GWh)GWh 142 1,004 1,749 2,822 4,553 7,210
Rooftops mapped for solar potential  
by Project SunroofMillions – – – 43 60 67
Cities covered globally  
by Project Sunroof# – – – – 7,300 8,900
Cumulative air quality measurements 
captured by Project Air View# – – 13,771,873 37,867,975 121,663,079 281,744,820
Cumulative cities covered globally by 
Project Air View52# – – – 10 27 41
Number of fishing vessels displayed on 
Global Fishing Watch# – – – – 35,000 70,000Environmental data
Fiscal	year
49
Google Environmental Report 2018 Appendix1. Read our 2004 Founders’ Initial Public Offering Letter at https:/ /abc.xyz/investor/founders-letters/2004/ipo-letter.html.
Our approach
2. “Internet Users by Region and Country, 2010–2016,” International Telecommunication Union, accessed 2018, http:/ /www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Statistics/Pages/stat/
treemap.aspx. 
3. Mathy Stanislaus, “A Virtuous Circle,” The Environmental Forum, September/October 2016, https:/ /www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2016-08/documents/
stainislaus_a_virtuous_circle_2016_final.pdf .
4. “Earth Overshoot Day,” Global Footprint Network, accessed 2018, https:/ /www.overshootday.org/newsroom/past-earth-overshoot-days/. 
5. Arman Shehabi et al., United States Data Center Energy Usage Report, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, June 2016, https:/ /eta.lbl.gov/publications/
united-states-data-center-energy . 
6. Bruno Basalisco et al., European Data Centres: How Google’s Digital Infrastructure Investment Is Supporting Sustainable Growth in Europe, Copenhagen 
Economics, February 2018, https:/ /static.googleusercontent.com/media/www.google.com/en/ /about/datacenters/eustory/report/Google_EU-DCs_Report.pdf .
7. Alicia Seiger, Kate Brandt, and Kate Randolph, “Connecting Climate Resilience to the Bottom Line,” Stanford Social Innovation Review, May 1, 2017, https:/ /ssir.
org/articles/entry/connecting_climate_resilience_to_the_bottom_line. 
8. “International Decade for Action ‘Water for Life’ 2005–2015,” United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, accessed 2016, http:/ /www.un.org/
waterforlifedecade/scarcity.shtml. 
9. Jacquelline Fuller, “Water Organizations Using Tech to Make an Impact,” The Keyword  (blog), March 22, 2016, https:/ /www.blog.google/outreach-initiatives/
google-org/world-water-day . 
10. Read about Google’s AI principles at https:/ /www.blog.google/technology/ai/ai-principles.
11. Our data centers that have achieved 100% landfill diversion have a current waste-to-energy contribution greater than 10%, meaning they haven’t yet achieved 
Zero Waste to Landfill. 
12. In previous years, we have reported our potable water-reduction target in terms of per-Googler consumption, but we will be using water intensity as the 
equivalent metric moving forward.  
Designing efficient data centers
13. According to Google’s own analysis of our more efficient servers, power infrastructure, and cooling systems, compared with data center industry averages.
14. PUE is a standard industry ratio that compares the amount of noncomputing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power distribution) to the 
amount of energy used to power IT equipment. A PUE of 2.0 means that for every watt of IT power, an additional watt is consumed to cool and distribute power 
to the IT equipment. A PUE closer to 1.0 means nearly all the energy is used for computing.
15. According to the Uptime Institute’s 2018 Data Center Industry Survey, the global average PUE of respondents’ largest data centers was around 1.58.
16. At Google, Zero Waste to Landfill means that when waste leaves our operating data centers, none of it goes to a landfill—100% is diverted to more sustainable 
pathways, with no more than 10% going to a waste-to-energy facility, unless waste to energy can be proved more valuable than alternative diversion paths.  
Our approach is based on UL’s Environmental Claim Validation Procedure for Zero Waste to Landfill.
17. See note 11 above.
18. Google Data Centers: Economic Impact and Community Benefit, April 2018, Oxford Economics, https:/ /static.googleusercontent.com/media/www.google.com/
en/ /about/datacenters/usstory/full-report/full-report.pdf . 
19. See note 6 above.
Advancing renewable energy
20. Bloomberg New Energy Finance database for wind and solar energy PPAs, as of December 31, 2017.
21. WRI’s market-based Scope 2 methodology requires the use of residual grid mixes, which represent the mix of resources generating electricity in a region after 
accounting for those designated for specific customers via contractual instruments like PPAs.
22. Lazard’s Levelized Cost of Energy Analysis—Version 11.0, Lazard, November 2017, https:/ /www.lazard.com/media/450337/lazard-levelized-cost-of-energy-
version-110.pdf .
23. Medium-Term Renewable Energy Market Report 2016, International Energy Agency, October 25, 2016, https:/ /www.iea.org/Textbase/npsum/MTrenew2016sum.pdf .
24. Renewables 2018 Global Status Report, REN21, June 2018, http:/ /www.ren21.net/gsr-2018.
25. Renewable Energy Benefits: Measuring the Economics, International Renewable Energy Agency, 2016, http:/ /www.irena.org/DocumentDownloads/Publications/
IRENA_Measuring-the-Economics_2016.pdf .
26. See note 6 above.
27. Since 2010, we’ve procured renewable energy for our operations, and in 2012, we began publishing how this reduces our overall carbon footprint. Up until 
2015, there was no guidance from WRI on how to account for these emissions reductions, so we developed our own methodology, whereby on an annual basis 
we assigned renewable electricity procured against electricity consumed (in MWh) in the closest data center to the renewable energy project. In 2015, WRI 
released new guidance for market-based Scope 2 accounting, which we adopted, starting with 2015 data. Our pre-2015 methodology differs from WRI’s in the 
use of residual mixes, which avoid double-counting of claimed renewable energy attributes.
28. A carbon offset is an investment in an activity that reduces carbon emissions. The reduction in carbon emissions is represented by a carbon credit. The credit, 
usually verified by a third party, signifies that GHG emissions are lower than they would have been had no one invested in the offset. One credit equals 1 metric 
ton (1,000 kilograms or 2,204 pounds) of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) prevented from being released into the atmosphere.
29. Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) is a quantity that describes, for a given mixture and amount of GHG, the amount of carbon dioxide (CO2) that would have the 
same global warming potential (GWP), i.e., the ability of a gas to trap heat in the atmosphere when measured over a specified timescale (generally, 100 years). 
Some GHGs are more potent than others, as measured by their GWP. Carbon dioxide is the baseline and thus has a GWP of 1.Endnotes
50
Google Environmental Report 2018 AppendixEndnotes
Creating sustainable workplaces
30. Neil E. Klepeis et al, “The National Human Activity Pattern Survey: A Resource for Assessing Exposure to Environmental Pollutants,” Journal of Exposure 
Analysis and Environmental Epidemiology, 2001, http:/ /www.readcube.com/articles/10.1038/sj.jea.7500165.
31. “Food Spots” is an umbrella term covering Google’s MicroKitchens, Hubs, and Hydration Stations.
Empowering users with technology
32. Eric Masanet et al., The Energy Efficiency Potential of Cloud-Based Software: A U.S. Case Study, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, June 2013,  
https:/ /www.osti.gov/scitech/servlets/purl/1171159 .
33. The annual carbon footprint of a Gmail user is about 1/80th that of a small business with locally hosted email servers. Larger organizations show smaller, 
though still impressive, efficiency gains. “Google’s Green Computing: Efficiency at Scale,” Google, 2011, https:/ /static.googleusercontent.com/media/www.
google.com/ /en/green/pdfs/google-green-computing.pdf .
34. Google emits less than 8 grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per day to serve an active Google user—defined as someone who performs 25 searches and 
watches 60 minutes of YouTube a day, has a Gmail account, and uses our other key services. 
35. UL110 and IEEE 1680.1 are multi-attribute, consensus-based sustainability standards for mobile phones, computers, and displays. Google uses a third party  
to validate conformance and independently certify to these standards. 
36. Ben Bixby, “Solar Eclipse, Meet the Nest Thermostat,” Inside Nest (blog), August 10, 2017, https:/ /nest.com/blog/2017/08/10/solar-eclipse-meet-the-nest-
thermostat.
Appendix
37. Alphabet’s fiscal year runs from January 1 to December 31. Unless otherwise specified, reported data is global.     
38. GHG emissions are calculated according to WRI’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For more information on our methodology, see Alphabet’s 2018 CDP Climate  
Change Report. 
39. See note 27 above.      
40. In 2016, we adopted the industry practice of including only operational emissions in our carbon neutrality commitment. Our 2016 operational emissions 
include Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-based), and Scope 3 (business travel and employee commuting). For more information, see our 2017 white paper  
10 Years of Carbon Neutrality. 
41. Carbon intensity figures are based on our combined Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissions, with the exception of electricity consumption intensity, 
which is calculated using only market-based Scope 2 at the data centers.        
42. Total energy consumption represents total Scope 2 electricity consumption plus total Scope 1 fuel use.
43. Power usage effectiveness (PUE) is an industry-recognized ratio to measure data center efficiency. For more information on our PUE and how we calculate 
it, see “Efficiency: How We Do It” on our website.     
44. Percentage of renewable energy is calculated on a calendar-year basis, comparing the volume of renewable electricity (in MWh) purchased for our 
operations (i.e., renewable energy procured through our PPA contracts, on-site renewable energy generation, and residual renewable electricity delivered 
directly through the grid) with the total volume of electricity consumed by our operations.
45. To align with the method outlined in note 44 above, starting in 2016, we adapted our methodology for calculating total electricity obtained from renewable 
sources. Prior to 2016, we were not accounting for the residual renewable electricity purchased through grid electricity. 
46. We have restated our 2016 data for the percentage of total electricity obtained from renewable sources due to quality assurance improvements in our data 
collection and calculations.    
47. Waste diverted to a more sustainable pathway than landfill or incineration without energy recovery.      
48. Decommissioning (decom) activity decreased in 2017 and 2018 because most of the decom returns in this period were from an older generation of 
technology, which did not qualify for redeployment. We might expect to see a higher percentage of refurbished parts in upgrades for 2019.
49. Includes all water (both recycled and potable) consumed at offices and data centers.       
50. Number of ports for ChargePoint stations in the United States only, which represent the majority of our electric vehicle charging ports in the United States. 
Emissions avoided are estimated using data from these ports only.
51. In addition to our renewable energy contracts, Google also invests in renewable energy projects around the world that have an attractive risk-adjusted 
financial return. These projects are not used to offset our carbon footprint. 
52. Of the cities mapped by Project Air View in 2017, one city was measured for methane, while 13 were measured for other air pollutants. This brings the total 
cities mapped to date to 16 cities measured for methane and 25 cities measured for other air pollutants (e.g., particulate matter, ozone, nitrogen dioxide).
51
Google Environmental Report 2018 AppendixGoogle	Environmental	Report	2018
Published September 10, 2018
On	the	cover: 
Researchers used data provided by Global Fishing Watch to help  
create North America’s largest fully protected marine reserve around 
Mexico’s Revillagigedo Archipelago.
Photo: Enric Sala / National Geographic
Designing	efficient	data	centers:
Servers in a Google data center
Advancing	renewable	energy:
Minco II wind farm in Oklahoma (101 MW for Google)
Creating	sustainable	workplaces:
Through Google’s Ecology program, we select flowers and other plants  
for their additive value to local ecosystems.
Empowering	users	with	technology:
Materials used to make Google Daydream View