European Union 
NFRD Report
 2021
Published June 2021Contents
1	 Reporting	principles
2 Google’s	business	model
2	 Environmental	initiatives
4	 Employee	matters
6	 Social	impact
8	 Respect	of	human	rights
13	 Anti-corruption	and	bribery	matters
15	 Conclusion
Reporting principles
We are issuing this report pursuant to the European Union (EU) non-financial 
reporting directive (NFRD) 2014/95/EU. This report covers the global 
operations of Google and all its subsidiaries. Google LLC itself is a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Alphabet Inc. In 2021, Google Sweden AB—a Swedish 
limited liability company—is the only entity required to report under Directive 
2014/95/EU, according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554)  
(Sw.Årsredovisningslagen).
This report includes summary information on Google’s environmental 
initiatives, employee matters, social impact, respect of human rights,  
and anti-corruption and bribery matters. When available, such as for  
diversity and inclusion data, data covers our 2020 fiscal year (January 1 to 
December 31, 2020). When 2020 data is not yet available, such as for most 
of our environmental data, data covers our 2019 fiscal year (January 1 to 
December 31, 2019).
For more detailed information on any of these topics, see Google’s 
Commitments page, which highlights our work across five areas: Protecting 
users, Expanding opportunity, Including all voices, Responding to crises,  
and Advancing sustainability. Our Reports database contains our public 
reports pertaining to each of these five areas. Additional information about  
our commitment to corporate responsibility can be found on Alphabet’s 
Investor Relations page.
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021
1Google’s business model
Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and make it universally 
accessible and useful. Alphabet is a collection of businesses—the largest  
of which is Google—which we report as two segments: Google Services 
and Google Cloud.
Our Google Services and Google Cloud segments together represented 
approximately 99% of our consolidated revenues in 2020. Our Google Services 
segment generates revenues primarily by delivering both performance 
advertising and brand advertising. We continue to look to the future and are 
making long-term investments that will grow revenues beyond advertising, 
including Google Play, hardware, and YouTube non-advertising services. Our 
Google Cloud segment generates revenues primarily from fees received for 
Google Cloud Platform services and Google Workspace collaboration tools. 
For more information on Google’s business model, see Alphabet’s 2020 
Annual Report.
Environmental initiatives
Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time, 
and we’ve long been committed to improving our energy consumption. 
Operating Google’s business in an environmentally sustainable way has been  
a core value since our founding.
We’re focused on tackling our energy consumption through a threefold 
strategy for carbon neutrality. First, we work to reduce our total energy 
consumption by pursuing aggressive energy efficiency initiatives. Second,  
we match 100% of the electricity consumption of our operations with 
purchases of renewable energy; we’re the largest annual corporate purchaser 
of renewable energy in the world. Third, we buy high-quality carbon offsets 
for any remaining emissions we haven’t yet eliminated.
Google has been carbon neutral since 2007, and in 2020, we purchased 
enough renewable energy to match 100% of the electricity we consumed 
for our global operations for the fourth consecutive year. From 2010 to 2019, 
Google has signed more than 50 power purchase agreements totaling more 
than 5 gigawatts of renewable energy that is new to the grid, representing 
a commitment of approximately $4 billion through 2034. These deals have 
resulted in over $7 billion in investments in renewable energy projects  
across the globe. We have agreements in place to purchase energy from  
four continents.
In 2020, building on what we’d learned and due to the transformation 
underway in the global energy system, we set a new goal: By 2030 we aim to 
run our business on carbon-free energy everywhere, at all times. This means 
that we will evolve from matching our annual energy consumption with 
renewable energy to sourcing round-the-clock carbon-free energy.
2
Google European Union NFRD Report 20212Google’s data centers are the heart of our company, powering products 
like Search, Gmail, and YouTube for billions of people around the world, 24/7. 
For more than a decade, we’ve worked to make Google data centers more 
efficient and have striven to improve their environmental performance even 
as demand for our products has dramatically risen. On average, a Google 
data center is twice as energy efficient as a typical enterprise data center. 
In 2020, the average annual PUE (power usage effectiveness) for our global 
fleet of data centers was 1.10, compared with the industry average of 1.59—
meaning that Google data centers use about six times less overhead energy 
for every unit of IT equipment energy.
At Google, just as we focus on users in designing our products, we focus 
on our employees in creating healthy workplaces, from our San Francisco Bay 
Area headquarters to Google offices at diverse sites in more than 170 cities 
around the world. At the end of 2019, over 1.4 million square meters (15 million 
square feet) of Google office facilities had achieved Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) certification.
We also put Google technology to work helping others study and respond 
to environmental challenges. We’re working with numerous research and 
nonprofit organizations to map the world’s forests, oceans, watersheds, and 
air quality, then helping to get that information into the hands of decision-
makers. We do this by working with partners to build tools like Global Forest 
Watch, Global Fishing Watch, Project Sunroof, Project Air View, Global Surface 
Water Explorer, Freshwater Ecosystems Explorer, and the DiSARM platform  
for malaria risk mapping.
Through Google.org, we’ve funded numerous initiatives and organizations 
to support climate action, access to clean energy, and conservation. For 
example, in 2020, we launched the Google.org Impact Challenge on Climate, 
which commits €10 million to fund bold ideas that aim to use technology to 
accelerate Europe’s progress toward a greener, more resilient future.
The highest level of direct responsibility for climate change rests with the  
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google,  
who is responsible for overseeing climate-related issues as she has visibility  
across all of the company's operations. The Audit and Compliance Committee  
of Alphabet’s Board of Directors oversees and monitors Alphabet’s major 
risk exposures, including financial, operational, data privacy and security, 
competition, legal, regulatory, compliance, civil and human rights, sustainability, 
and reputational risks, and the steps Alphabet takes to prevent, detect, monitor, 
and actively manage such exposures. Primary responsibility for managing 
climate-related issues is delegated to our Google Sustainability Officer, who 
leads sustainability across Google’s worldwide operations, products and 
supply chain and ensures alignment of our climate strategy across different 
business units. 
3
Google European Union NFRD Report 20213For more information about our environmental sustainability initiatives, risk 
assessments, and key performance indicators, see our 2020 Environmental 
Report  and our 2020 CDP Climate Change Response. Alphabet has earned 
a position on CDP’s Climate Change A List, which recognizes leadership on 
climate action and transparency, for seven consecutive years.
Employee matters
We recognize that our employees are our best assets and critical to our 
continued success. We invest heavily in hiring talented individuals, and we 
seek to hire people with diverse backgrounds and perspectives. 
Google’s Code of Conduct provides a guide as to how our employees are 
expected to put Google’s values into practice as they pursue the company’s 
mission. This includes respect for one another and for our users. Employees 
are expected to create and preserve a workplace culture that is free of 
harassment, intimidation, bias, and unlawful discrimination. Code of Conduct 
training is provided to all Google employees at all levels of the organization, 
and we offer unconscious bias training.
In an effort to accelerate our commitments to be a representative, equitable, 
and respectful workplace, we are increasing transparency around Googlers’ 
concerns and how we handle them, as well as increasing support for people 
who raise concerns. In 2019, we updated our Internal Investigations Report 
to include a section that provides detail about internal sexual harassment 
investigations as well as expanded sexual harassment scenarios that 
reflect examples of the types of conduct that may result in termination of 
employment. In 2019, we also publicly shared our Policy on Harassment, 
Discrimination, Retaliation, Standards of Conduct, and Workplace Concerns,  
as well as our processes and channels for raising and investigating concerns.
In 2020, we announced new workplace commitments that continue to  
build on our efforts to handle concerns with care and foster respect in the 
workplace. This reflects the Alphabet Board’s agreement on a series of 
industry-leading principles and improvements that incorporated input from 
both employees and stockholders, including the creation of a new Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Advisory Council, which comprises internal 
senior executives and external DEI experts. The Board also will review the 
effectiveness of our sexual harassment and retaliation prevention programs 
and proposed changes.
Building diversity, equity, and inclusion into our workplace, products, and 
programs is at the heart of creating a more helpful Google for everyone. 
When we get this right, we ensure that everyone feels like they belong at 
Google and beyond. We believe the greatest contribution we can make is 
sustained action within our company, our communities, and the world.
4
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021We continue to focus on developing, progressing, and retaining women  
and employees from underrepresented communities at all stages of their 
careers. For example, in 2019, Google hosted five Women of Color summits 
with a combined total attendance of nearly 1,500 women of color from over 
20 countries. In 2020, we widened our lens to include all women of color 
across the company by hosting our first Women of Color summit for over 
20,000 Googlers across more than 100 cities.
We are also proud to support the Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)  
that provide additional support and community for underrepresented 
employees and their allies. Collectively, more than 35,000 employees across 
more than 50 countries actively participate as members of our 16 ERGs. 
These Googler-initiated networks are passionate about promoting 
diversity, equity, and inclusion at Google.
Our work in hiring and retaining underrepresented communities at Google 
is having an impact for women in tech all over the world and for Black+ 
and Latinx+ people in the U.S. For example, since we began reporting, 
representation of women in tech roles at Google has grown from 16.6%  
in 2014 to 24.6% of our global tech workforce in 2020.
During the summer of 2020, in the wake of widespread racial unrest in 
the U.S., and in partnership with Black employees, we made new commitments  
to do our part to increase racial equity, within the company and in the wider 
world in which we operate and live. Among other commitments, we set a 
goal to improve leadership representation of underrepresented groups by 
30% by 2025. We also announced a $175 million+ economic opportunity 
package to support Black business owners, startup founders, job seekers, 
and developers, in addition to YouTube’s $100 million fund to amplify Black 
creators and artists. 
Over the last year we have seen progress in a number of areas. Since 2018, 
we’ve continued to increase representation for women globally, and for Black+ 
and Latinx+ employees in the U.S. We saw the largest increase in our hiring of 
Black+ technical employees that we have ever measured. 
For more information on our diversity efforts, see Google’s Diversity  
Annual Report.
When someone joins Google, we seek to provide resources to help them 
achieve their personal and professional success and well-being, and Google’s 
efforts in these areas are widely known. In fact, in Universum’s 2020 ranking 
of the World’s Most Attractive Employers, Google was ranked the number 
one employer for the 11th consecutive year, as well as number one for 
Engineering/IT.
We aim to empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their 
role or function within the company, and we provide training that helps 
them develop the skills to do so. We have an e-learning curriculum and 
conduct “Googler-to-Googler” training sessions, where people learn new 
5
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021skills from their colleagues. Google subsidizes outside studies related to 
an employee’s job responsibilities and—because we believe that fostering 
curiosity is key to success—also for employees to engage in external training 
unrelated to their function.
In terms of physical resources, we build our offices with the goal of providing 
our employees with a first-rate work environment, and we engage in a process 
of continuous re-evaluation with respect to design and functionality to meet 
the needs of our people.
Employee health is extremely important; we want our employees to live 
happy and healthy lives, both in and out of work. Our benefits programs are 
designed to give employees control over their health and well-being and to 
make it easy for them to take care of themselves and their families. Globally, 
new parents, regardless of gender, receive a minimum of 12 weeks of fully 
paid leave to bond with their child (birth parents receive an additional 10–12 
weeks of pregnancy recovery time).
In addition, all new parents globally benefit from a two-week gradual return 
policy (ramping back to work part-time at full-time salary). Google also 
supports all employees (including parents) in availing themselves of flexible 
working options such as part-time working and job sharing. We also provide 
baby-bonding benefits, which is a sum of money given to Googlers who are 
new parents to help pay for services that support them during the first period 
of being a parent (e.g., house cleaning, healthy take-out food) to allow them to 
maximize the time and energy they can spend with their new family member.
Social impact
We know that diversity and inclusion are values critical to our success and 
future innovation. We also know that challenging bias—inside and outside 
our organization—is the right thing to do. That’s why we continue to support 
efforts that fuel our commitments to progress. These commitments require 
us to look at bias through a wider lens: at Google, in the industry, and in 
society. And while progress takes time, our actions today will determine who 
we are in the future. 
Google has set company-wide goals to ensure that each of our products is 
highly accessible and to continue our emphasis on disability inclusion in our 
workforce. In 2019, we held our first ever Global Disability Alliance ERG summit. 
This gathering was an opportunity for employees from around the world to 
come together to collaborate and discuss strategies for disability inclusion at 
work and for improving accessibility in our products and workplace. 
In 2019, we participated for the first time in the Disability Equality Index, 
which serves as a comprehensive benchmarking tool for disability inclusion. 
We were proud to earn a perfect score on this index in 2019 and again in 2020, 
and we’re committed to making every Googler feel welcome and included. 
6
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021Around the world, Google engineers, designers, and marketers are working 
to understand the needs of communities that have been underrepresented in 
tech. Because we’re building for billions of users who may not look or act  
or think like the teams building them, we need to make sure we’re bringing 
different perspectives to the table at key points in the process. We are making 
sustained efforts to drive inclusion by design to enable inclusive products 
such as the Google Assistant. Launched in 2016 and now available in more 
than 90 countries and nearly 30 languages, Google Assistant helps more than 
500 million people every month to get things done across smart speakers 
and Smart Displays, phones, TVs, cars, and more. Before launch, the product 
team worked with our product inclusion team and ERGs to avoid stereotypes, 
historical biases, offensive language, and hate speech. 
We also work with external partners to provide digital skills training for  
everyone, aimed at helping people find jobs or grow their business and 
career. For example, our Grow with Google workshops are designed to help 
ensure that everyone is able to participate in the digital economy. Our training 
programs range from basic online skills, like how websites work and how to 
reach customers with email, to more advanced topics, like tracking results 
with analytics and international marketing.   
As part of International Women’s Day in 2020, Google supported the virtual 
networking event and information booth at the Women in Data Science (WiDS) 
Worldwide Conference. WiDS Worldwide hosted about 2,200 attendees 
representing 65 countries, 30% of whom visited our virtual Google booth. 
Throughout the rest of the year, 120 Women@Google global chapters from  
52 countries engaged tens of thousands of employees virtually to discuss 
career development and programs to improve our culture. 
In 2020, we partnered with women’s student organizations—as well as 
organizations focused on people with disabilities, ethnic minorities, Black+ 
and LGBTQ+ communities, and other underrepresented demographics—
across approximately 450 universities in North America and Europe to 
host over 350 events. Also in 2020, Google’s Women Techmakers program 
supported our external Ambassadors in hosting around 200 community-led 
events for International Women's Day to inspire and empower over 80,000 
women in tech globally. These events provide women with opportunities  
to develop their technical skills, celebrate their achievements through 
#IamRemarkable workshops, and continue to build networks in the tech 
industry. By the end of 2020, #IamRemarkable workshops had reached over 
185,000 participants in more than 15,000 workshops across 150 countries. 
Almost half (49%) of workshop participants reported experiencing growth in 
their jobs, their careers, or both, which they attributed to #IamRemarkable.
7
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021As a part of our aforementioned commitments to racial equity, Google.org 
pledged $12 million to support organizations working to advance racial justice. 
Among them were $1 million grants each to The Leadership Conference 
Education Fund, the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the NAACP Educational 
Fund’s Policing Reform Campaign, and the Center for Policing Equity.
To support nonprofits in 2020, we committed a total of $1 billion in Ad 
Grants. Since 2003, Ad Grants has provided nonprofits with up to $10,000 
per month in free Search ads to help them attract donors, recruit volunteers, 
and promote their missions. The increased funding went toward nonprofits 
tackling pressing issues like COVID-19 response and recovery—especially in 
hard-hit developing economies—and fighting racial injustice around the world.
In March 2021, Google.org launched the global $25 million Impact Challenge 
for Women and Girls to support nonprofits and social organizations around the 
world that are working to advance the economic empowerment of women and 
girls and create pathways to prosperity. Impact Challenge grantees will receive 
funding, mentoring from Googlers, Ad Grants, and additional support to bring 
their ideas to life. Over the last five years, Google.org has provided $55 million 
to nonprofit organizations supporting gender equity, and the Impact Challenge 
builds on this long-standing work. 
Respect of human rights
We are committed to respecting the human rights enumerated in the  
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its implementing treaties, as 
well as to upholding the standards established in the United Nations Guiding  
Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the Global Network 
Initiative (GNI) Principles.
Google conducts our work on civil rights and human rights through our 
Human Rights Program, a central function consisting of experts in the field 
supporting our efforts to ensure that we are meeting our commitment to 
the UNGPs, GNI Principles, and other civil and human rights instruments.  
The Human Rights Program develops and advances company-wide strategy 
on civil and human rights, advises product teams on potential civil and human 
rights impacts, conducts human rights due diligence, and engages external 
experts and stakeholders. 
Dedicated personnel are focused on product, regional, and functional areas, 
and they are responsible for the day-to-day operations of protecting our 
users and ensuring compliance with legal requirements. Senior management 
develops the strategy around and oversees the implementation of civil and 
human rights commitments and GNI Principles at Google and provides regular 
updates on relevant issues to the members of our Audit and Compliance 
8
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021Committee in accordance with its Charter, which was amended in 2020 to  
explicitly include risk oversight of civil and human rights issues. The Audit and 
Compliance Committee also provides pertinent reports to the full Board of 
Directors to ensure that it is apprised of these matters. 
As we grow as a company, we continue to enhance and evolve our 
implementation of our human rights commitments. For example, we have 
established a Human Rights Executive Council to provide oversight and 
guidance to our Human Rights Program on global human rights and domestic 
civil rights in the U.S. Council members represent key product areas and 
functions across Google and regularly hear from the leaders of the Human 
Rights Program. More information on our human rights commitments can be 
found at Google: Human Rights.
We are founding members of GNI, a multi-stakeholder nongovernmental 
organization working to advance free expression and privacy. The GNI 
Principles are informed by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights, and they concretize Information and Communication Technology 
companies’ responsibility to respect and promote the freedom of expression 
and privacy rights of their users. As part of GNI, we work to protect, 
promote, and support human rights, including through improved responsible 
decision-making, shared learning, and multi-stakeholder collaboration. 
Senior management oversees the implementation of the human rights and 
GNI Principles at Google and provides quarterly updates on relevant issues 
to the members of our Board of Directors. As a GNI member, Google is 
subject to a periodic assessment by an independent party to review how 
the company integrates GNI Principles into our governance, due diligence 
and risk management, and operational practices. GNI makes these company 
assessments publicly available.
At our foundation, Google’s Code of Conduct sets forth our expectations for 
employees regarding privacy, security, freedom of expression, discrimination, 
harassment, corruption, and compliance with all laws, including anti-modern 
slavery legislation. The Code encourages employees to raise questions or 
concerns about the Code and to report suspected violations. Employees failing 
to follow the Code can be subject to disciplinary action, including termination 
of employment. Failure of a Google contractor, consultant, or other covered 
service provider to follow the Code in connection with their services to 
Google can result in termination of their relationship with Google. Our Code 
of Conduct training reinforces the expectation that employees, temporary 
workers, and contractors (collectively, “our workers”) follow applicable laws 
and report concerns of illegal or unethical activity. 
We are committed to maintaining a culture that encourages employees 
and others to report concerns related to violations of our Code of Conduct, 
policies, or laws, including our human rights commitments. That is why we have 
adopted and promoted policies that strictly prohibit retaliation of any kind for 
9
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021raising such concerns or for participating in an investigation relating to such 
concerns. When we learn about a potential violation of our policies or Code 
of Conduct, we look into the concern consistent with our robust process for 
carefully investigating such allegations and then make appropriate remedial 
recommendations. Throughout this process, we keep information, including 
the identity of the individuals raising the concern, as confidential as possible, 
sharing only on a need-to-know basis. 
Our commitment extends beyond our own practices to those of our 
suppliers. We have a Supplier Code of Conduct (the “Supplier Code”), which is 
based on the Responsible Business Alliance (formerly the Electronic Industry 
Citizenship Coalition) Code of Conduct; international standards, such as 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights; and our own values. The Supplier Code sets 
standards designed to protect the health, safety, and treatment of workers; 
minimize their environmental impact; combat corruption; respect freedom  
of association and collective bargaining; comply with minimum wage 
laws; and prohibit any form of forced, bonded (including debt bondage), 
or indentured labor, involuntary prison labor, sex trafficking, and slavery or 
trafficking of people.
We expect our suppliers to source only from conflict-free smelters,  
such as those that are compliant with Conflict-Free Smelter Program 
assessment protocols, and work with suppliers to achieve conflict-free 
sourcing. Alphabet’s Conflict Minerals Policy directs suppliers to perform 
due diligence on the source and chain of custody of minerals used to 
manufacture products for Google.
We strive to protect our users’ privacy, free expression, and secure 
access to the web when they use Google products. We outline how we 
safeguard privacy and security on our safety site , give users control over their 
information through Google Account , and detail our efforts toward protecting 
online expression and access to information in our statements on freedom of  
expression . We’re also committed to complying with Europe’s General Data 
Protection Regulation. 
In 2018, we updated and improved our Privacy Policy , making it easier to  
understand, adding informative videos that explain our practices, and 
embedding key privacy controls directly in the text. We also updated the 
privacy and security settings in Google Account, which ensures users can easily 
see their data and set their preferences for how Google should store and use 
their information, including pausing or deleting Search or YouTube history or 
disabling personalized ads. In 2019, we introduced auto-delete controls, which 
give you the choice to have Google automatically and continuously delete  
your Location History, search, voice, and YouTube activity data after 3 months 
or 18 months. In 2020, we made auto-delete the default for our core activity 
10
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021settings and announced updates to many of our privacy tools, including Google 
Account controls directly from Search, easier access to Incognito mode, more 
proactive privacy controls, and others. We continue to develop and improve 
these and other tools to make them more robust and intuitive.
In June 2018, we announced the Google AI Principles: seven principles to 
guide the ethical development of our Artificial Intelligence work. In addition 
to these seven principles, we have identified AI applications we will not 
pursue, including designing or deploying AI in technologies whose purpose 
contravenes widely accepted principles of international law and human 
rights. These are concrete standards that govern our research and product 
development and impact our business decisions. We established a formal 
review structure to assess new projects, products, and deals for alignment 
with the principles. This diverse and inclusive group of Googlers includes 
senior executives, user researchers, social scientists, ethicists, human rights 
specialists, policy and privacy advisors, legal experts, and senior experts 
from a variety of other disciplines.
We believe restrictions on the freedom of expression should be consistent 
with international human rights laws or standards and the rule of law and  
be necessary and proportionate for the relevant purpose. We also believe  
that laws around government surveillance of user information should 
be narrowly tailored, transparent, and subject to oversight. We publish 
Transparency Reports, with the mission of sharing data that sheds light 
on how the policies and actions of governments and corporations affect 
privacy, security, and access to information.
We also continue to innovate around product-specific transparency with 
YouTube’s industry-leading transparency reporting on how it enforces the 
Community Guidelines. We are committed to tackling the challenge of quickly 
removing content that violates our Community Guidelines and reporting 
on our progress. That is why, in April 2018, we launched a quarterly YouTube 
Community Guidelines enforcement report. 
Recent examples of Google’s work on human rights issues include 
developments in content quality policies and facial recognition applications.  
On content quality, one of the most complex and constantly evolving areas 
we deal with is hate speech. In 2019, YouTube took a close look at its approach 
towards hateful content in consultation with dozens of experts in subjects  
like violent extremism, supremacism, civil rights, and free speech. Based on 
those learnings, YouTube made several updates to its hate speech policy 
including removing more hateful and supremacist content, reducing borderline 
content and raising up authoritative voices, and continuing to reward trusted 
creators and enforce monetization policies. Similarly, our ongoing work on 
information integrity led to the release of a white paper in 2019 detailing our 
work to tackle the intentional spread of disinformation across Google Search, 
Google News, YouTube, and its advertising systems.
11
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021In 2019, in collaboration with independent experts using the UN’s 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as a framework, Google 
commissioned a formal human rights impact assessment (HRIA) of the 
Celebrity Recognition tool and technology’s potential impact on human 
rights. The HRIA played an essential role in shaping the application program 
interface’s capabilities and the policies established around them, and we 
publicly released a summary of the HRIA. 
Our Chief Compliance Officer oversees a team focused on combating 
modern slavery in the company’s supply chains and business operations. 
The Chief Compliance Officer provides quarterly updates on the status of 
our Anti-Modern Slavery Program to our Compliance Steering Committee, 
composed of senior executives from across our business. In addition, our 
Chief Compliance Officer provides regular updates on our anti-modern 
slavery efforts to the Audit and Compliance Committee of Alphabet’s Board 
of Directors. Regular updates on the status of the Responsible Supply Chain 
Program—which includes addressing human rights risk, among many other 
areas—are provided to our Supplier Responsibility Steering Team, composed of 
our Chief Compliance Officer and leaders from Google’s direct and indirect 
supply chains.
Our Policy Against Modern Slavery prohibits knowingly engaging in or 
supporting human trafficking and child labor practices in our business 
operations. Any violation of our standards by a Google employee can result 
in disciplinary action, including termination of employment. Any violation by 
a supplier can result in contract termination. Recently, we published our fifth 
annual Statement Against Modern Slavery , which provides more detail on 
our efforts to ensure that modern slavery is not taking place in our supply 
chains and business operations.
We perform periodic independent third-party audits at hardware and  
non-hardware suppliers’ facilities. The audits include in-depth tours, meetings 
with management, worker interviews, document reviews, and assessments 
of related areas, such as dormitories, cafeterias, wastewater treatment 
facilities, and warehouses. The audit protocol is designed to assess suppliers’ 
performance in the areas covered by our Supplier Code, including human 
rights risk. We work with our suppliers to determine root causes and develop 
corrective action plans for any issues identified during the audit. While our 
audits are announced, our supplier managers are trained to report any 
concerns they might observe on an ongoing basis. In 2020, we published 
our fourth annual Supplier Responsibility Report. This report provides 
more detailed information about our above-mentioned audit and supplier 
engagement efforts.  
As part of our efforts to identify and mitigate human rights risks in our 
supply chain, we also conduct due diligence on our direct suppliers and 
vendors, which include both product and service suppliers, identified as 
12
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021having higher risk through our risk assessments. As part of the due diligence 
process, suppliers complete a self-assessment questionnaire about their 
working conditions and management systems. The due diligence process 
also includes background checks, examination of labor-related red flags that 
appear in publicly available databases and media sources, and a review of 
higher-risk suppliers’ names against human trafficking watch lists.
If we discover red flags, we remediate these issues and document them. 
In certain cases, we may decide to no longer pursue a relationship or to 
terminate our current relationship with a supplier. Our workers who manage 
relationships with higher-risk suppliers identified in our risk assessment receive 
supplemental in-person training. In addition, we have an online training course 
that covers all of the aspects of our Supplier Code for our workers in roles 
related to hardware supplier management. This training helps our workers 
identify human rights red flags, shares best practices, and instructs our workers 
to report human rights concerns.
Certain areas of our business, such as our hardware production, present 
human rights risks we’ve been working to eradicate; however, we appreciate 
that there are risks present in many aspects of our business that we must 
continue to work to understand and address. Working to mitigate human 
rights risk is an ongoing process, and we continually strive to assess this risk 
in all facets of our business. 
Finally, we seek to apply technological innovation to advance social good 
in the diverse communities and contexts in which we operate. Thus, we 
support technology-focused social impact projects and provide resources to 
help nonprofits tackle challenges such as human trafficking, education, and 
economic development through Google’s AI for Social Good program and  
AI Impact Challenge. 
Anti-corruption and 
bribery matters
Google recognizes that corruption adversely impacts economic growth 
and disproportionately harms the most vulnerable people and communities 
around the world.
As with our modern slavery efforts, Google’s Chief Compliance Officer 
oversees a legal team dedicated to preventing corruption in the company’s 
business operations and supply chain. The Chief Compliance Officer provides 
quarterly updates on the status of our anti-corruption compliance program 
to the Compliance Steering Committee, as well as the Audit and Compliance 
Committee of Alphabet’s Board of Directors.
Google’s Code of Conduct requires compliance with anti-bribery laws, 
such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. 
We also have an Anti-Bribery and Government Ethics Policy, which prohibits 
bribery and facilitation payments in our business operations and requires 
13
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021legal pre-approvals for certain types of government-related expenses.  
A Google employee, contractor, service provider, supplier, or vendor who 
directly or indirectly gives, offers, or promises anything of value to anyone, 
including government officials, with the corrupt intent to obtain or retain any 
improper advantage will be disciplined up to and including termination of 
employment or business relationship. 
We continually strive to assess corruption risk in all facets of our business. 
As with other companies in our industry, bribery and corruption risks posed by 
working with third parties and intermediaries remain a significant corruption 
risk to Google.
We undertake a number of efforts to mitigate the risk of bribery and 
corruption both in our company’s operations as well as in our supply chain. 
Below are a few key examples:
• We maintain an anti-bribery third-party due diligence program, where 
we conduct documented, risk-based due diligence pertaining to the 
engagement of third parties and channel partners.
• We routinely inform business partners of Google’s commitment to abide by 
anti-bribery laws and seek a reciprocal commitment from them by including 
anti-corruption compliance language in our contracts.
• We strive to provide risk-based anti-bribery training for employees in 
relevant functions at all levels of the company. Our Code of Conduct 
training, which is administered to all employees, contains an anti-bribery 
module. We also periodically supplement our online trainings with live 
instruction. In 2020, Google had a Code of Conduct training compliance 
rate of 98.55%.
• We conduct periodic reviews of the anti-bribery compliance program, 
taking into account relevant developments in the business and field, as  
well as evolving international and industry standards.
• We conduct periodic and documented testing of relevant controls and 
sampling of high-risk transactions. 
• We implement appropriate processes and due diligence procedures to 
analyze potential bribery risks associated with proposed mergers and 
acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and consortia.
• Finally, as previously mentioned, we maintain multiple reporting channels 
whereby employees can raise questions or concerns about the Code of 
Conduct or our anti-bribery policy and report suspected violations.
14
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021Conclusion
In their first letter to shareholders, our founders highlighted Google’s goal 
to “develop services that significantly improve the lives of as many people 
as possible.” This vision continues to guide all of us at Google. We believe 
in technology’s power and potential to have a profoundly positive impact 
across the world. There is much work that remains to be done, and we will 
continually strive to achieve this objective.
15
Google European Union NFRD Report 2021