2020 Health for 
Humanity Report
Progress in Sustainability
Contents
ABOVE: During the COVID-19 pandemic, 
community healthcare workers in Peru 
traveled door-to-door to reach children with 
VERMOX Chewable tablets for treatment of 
intestinal worms. The medicine is donated 
by Johnson & Johnson and implemented  
by INMED Partnerships for Children.  
Photo by INMED Partnerships for Children.
FRONT COVER: Jacquelyn W., Senior 
Warehouse Operator, celebrating the 
first outbound shipment of the Johnson & 
Johnson COVID-19 vaccine.
Report overview
This Report details the progress of the Johnson  & Johnson Family 
of Companies in sustainability. It is also our primary source of 
annual disclosure on environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) performance and should be reviewed in conjunction 
with disclosures on the ESG Policies & Positions  page. Data 
in this Report cover the period between January 1, 2020, and 
December 31, 2020, unless otherwise noted. Reporting on other 
matters specific to financial performance of the Company and its 
subsidiaries can be found in our 2020 Annual Report . For more 
information and the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking 
Statements, please see About this Report . 
To read this report online, visit healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com.Message from Our Chairman and CEO  
2020 Year in Brief  
Our Recognitions
Our Approach 
Health for Humanity Strategy & Goals  
Sustainability Governance   
Sustainability Priorities 
United in Defeating COVID-19  
Caring for Patients  
Supporting the Front Lines of Care  
Protecting Employees   
Supply Chain Resilience   
Better Health for All  
Innovation   
Global Public Health Strategy   
Access & Affordability  
Strengthening Health Systems 
Responsible Business Practices   
Ethics & Values   
Our People  
Product Quality & Safety  
Environmental Health   
Responsible Supply Base  
Reporting Hub  
ESG Summary  
Performance Data  
GRI Content Index  
GRI Culture of Health for Business Framework  
SASB Index  
TCFD  
UNGC Communication on Progress  
CDP Reports  
About this Report  
Independent Assurance Statements  
Glossary  
References3 
4 
5
6 
9 
13 
14
15 
17 
24 
25 
28
30 
31 
35 
45 
48
52 
53 
60 
74 
79 
90
98 
98 
98 
98 
98 
98  
98 
98 
98 
99 
101 
115 
116
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting HubTo Our Global Community: 
We all know from firsthand experience that 2020  
was a year of profound upheaval and uncertainty.  
It was also, however, a clarifying moment for us at 
Johnson & Johnson.
As we grappled with the wide-ranging impacts of  
the COVID-19 pandemic and the ongoing economic 
volatility that threw into stark relief the issues of racial 
injustice and health inequities, one thing was certain: 
when it comes to global public health, the stakes could 
not be higher. While solving the most pressing global 
health challenges is never easy, the once-in-a-generation 
confluence of these crises underscored the complexity 
that organizations like ours must navigate if we truly 
want to make the maximum positive impact on human 
health. 
At Johnson & Johnson, taking on even the most 
daunting healthcare challenges has been at the core 
of who we are for 135 years. And while living up to 
our commitments embodied in Our Credo  has always 
required constant evolution and innovation, the last year 
demanded that we embrace radically new ways of doing 
business and even greater heights of purpose-driven 
collaboration through public–private partnerships.
As we detail in this Report, the significant challenges of 
2020 did not deter us from accomplishing many of our 
key goals.
While much of the world’s attention was on our 
leadership in the fight against the COVID-19 
pandemic —culminating in the deployment of our 
Janssen COVID-19 vaccine this year—we also achieved 
our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals of fighting HIV and 
tuberculosis , as well as accelerating broader access to 
our Ebola  vaccine for those most in need. We brought 
this same agility to our work on behalf of our patients 
and customers in areas as diverse as advancing the 
science around the treatment of multiple myeloma , 
deploying technological innovations and application of 
data science to safeguard critically important supply chains , and launching a first-of-its-kind medical device 
for the management of persistent atrial fibrillation . 
Delivering on our responsibilities to a healthy planet, 
we made progress on reducing our carbon footprint, 
including achieving more than 50% use of renewable 
electricity globally .
Throughout 2020, bearing witness to the way the 
pandemic revealed weaknesses in our public health 
systems and pushed businesses to do more to create 
healthier, more equitable communities was sometimes a 
humbling experience—but it was also an inspiration. 
I’m pleased to be able to say that these challenges of 
2020 only enhanced our commitment to—and continued 
focus on—creating long-term value for all stakeholders 
by integrating social considerations, environmental 
sustainability and good governance into every aspect 
of our business. From launching the Our Race to 
Health Equity  platform to address the root causes of 
healthcare inequity in the United States, to deepening 
our commitments to address complex issues like 
smoking cessation, to environmental health innovations 
to make our packaging easier to recycle or reuse through 
the Healthy Lives  initiative from Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer Health, we have kept our sights firmly set on 
catalyzing lasting change. 
To help lead the world into a brighter post-COVID-19 
future where healthier families flourish in healthier 
societies on a healthier planet, we know we must 
capitalize on the incredible momentum we’ve unleashed 
at Johnson & Johnson this past year. 
Building on our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals—the 
successes and shortcomings of which are detailed in this 
Report—we are launching even more ambitious goals 
for 2025 that will enable us to continue living into Our 
Purpose as we make further contributions to 11 of the 17 
United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. 
Given how essential collaboration was to our shared 
progress in 2020, we’re actively expanding on many of 
our historic partnerships across the entire healthcare ecosystem to take on the challenges of tomorrow.  
And, as always, we will hold ourselves to a high level  
of transparency and accountability through reports  
such as this one and our annual Janssen U.S. 
Transparency Report. 
I know we will continue to do our part through  
whatever unknowable new challenges and upheavals  
lie ahead, because we will always be able to draw  
upon our ultimate strength: the remarkable people 
of Johnson & Johnson. In an extraordinary year, our 
136,000-plus global employees embraced radically 
new ways of working with greater agility than ever 
before. Each individual’s ingenuity and resilience are 
what allowed us to go above and beyond for all our 
stakeholders. I could not be prouder of what Johnson  & 
Johnson employees showed the world is possible—
or more optimistic about what their passion and 
perseverance will help us achieve in the future.
 
Alex Gorsky  
Chairman, Board of Directors  
and Chief Executive OfficerMessage from Our Chairman and CEO 
GRI 102-14
Alex Gorsky connecting with employees during a virtual visit  
to our Shanghai and Beijing offices.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
32020 Year in Brief
OUR NEW COMMITMENTS AND GOALS 
OUR IMPACT$100 million
committed over the next five years in the U.S. to help 
eliminate health inequities for people of color$800 million
committed through 2030 to advance our Healthy 
Lives Mission, to make our Consumer Health 
products more sustainable 
ambitious Health for Humanity 2025 Goals  
addressing pandemics and epidemics, global health 
equity, our people, planet and partners
People We Serve
21
Combating COVID-19  
Within a year, began manufacturing our single-shot 
COVID-19 vaccine, now authorized for emergency 
use by the U.S. FDA, granted a Conditional Marketing 
Authorization by the European Commission, and 
issued an Emergency Use Listing by the World Health 
Organization (WHO)
Expanding Access to MDR-TB Treatment  
Collaborated with the Stop TB Partnership’s Global 
Drug Facility to develop and implement a novel access 
framework  for SIRTURO (bedaquiline) for 135+ low- 
and middle-income countriesAdvancing Breakthrough Science for HIV   
Received European Commission Marketing 
Authorization for REKAMBYS (rilpivirine injection) to 
be used with ViiV Healthcare’s Vocabria (cabotegravir 
injection) as the first-ever complete, long-acting 
injectable HIV treatment regimen
Treating Atrial Fibrillation  
Received CE mark approval for QDOT MICRO 
Catheter, next-generation high-power, short-duration 
ablation catheter for the treatment of atrial fibrillationPreventing Future Ebola 
Outbreaks  
Received European Commission 
Marketing Authorization for  
Ebola vaccine regime11 for the 
prevention of Ebola Virus Disease
Partnering to Stop Smoking  
As part of the Access Initiative for Quitting Tobacco, 
launched by the WHO to reduce smoking rates around 
the world, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health 
donated nicotine replacement therapy patches
Photo by Rwanda 
Ministry of Health.
Employees
Over 100  
medically trained employees 
benefited from paid leave to serve 
patients in their communities 
during the COVID-19 pandemic
Living Wage  
assessment integrated into  
our standard human resources 
processesCommunities & Planet Shareholders
$12.2 billion
invested in R&D, an increase 
of 7% over 2019
59
consecutive years of 
dividends increases**
$7.3 billion
spent on acquisitions, creating value 
through innovation and partnerships$2.6 billion
contributed in products and 
cash for charitable purposes*
$50 million
additional funds committed to 
support frontline health workers 
battling COVID-19*
10.7% of total 
supplier spend
attributable to diverse suppliers54% of our 
electricity
is produced from 
renewable energy sources46%  
of management 
roles held by 
women globally
53%  
of new hires in 
2020 were women
93% participation rate 89% favorabilityOur Credo Survey  results showed an all-time high: 45% reduction
in CO2 emissions globally since 20102010 2020
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
4 * Funded entirely by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, a registered charity and a company limited by guarantee. The Foundation is a separate legal entity from the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies.
** Includes dividend declared in April 2021.Our Recognitions
Constituent of the FTSE4Good 
Index Series , designed to 
measure the performance  
of companies demonstrating 
strong ESG practices.
Named to Forbes 2020 
list as a Best Employer 
for Diversity  for the 2nd 
consecutive year.Johnson & Johnson 
Technology selected as 
a 2021 CIO 100 Award  
winner for wide-ranging 
contributions to bringing 
forward Johnson & 
Johnson’s COVID-19 
vaccine candidate.Named to Working Mother ’s 
annual 100 Best Companies  
list for the 35th consecutive 
year, and also recognized 
on the Best Companies 
for Dads  list for the third 
consecutive year.Received the EcoVadis 2021 
Sustainable Procurement 
Leadership Awards  in the 
Best Value Chain Engagement 
category.Named to the CDP supplier 
engagement leader board  for 
the fourth consecutive year. 
DiversityInc 2020 and 2019 Hall 
of Fame Company  for Diversity.Named to the 2020 CPA-Zicklin Index 
of Corporate Political Disclosure and 
Accountability for the third consecutive 
year with trendsetter status, indicating 
model corporate governance best practices.Ranked #2 for “social capital”  in  
new The Wall Street Journal  ranking 
of world's most sustainably managed 
companies.Ranked #3  on advancing access to 
medicines and technologies for people  
in low- and middle-income countries in  
the 2021 Access to Medicine Index.
Ranked #1  on 12th annual Gartner 
Healthcare Supply Chain Top 25 ranking.
A List ratings  from CDP in climate action for the 
third consecutive year and water security for the 
second consecutive year.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
5Our Approach
GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-16
Our Purpose
We blend heart, science and ingenuity to profoundly change the 
trajectory of health for humanity.
Our Values
We are driven by Our Credo , a set of values and principles that, since 
1943, has challenged and inspired us to put the needs and well-being 
of the people we serve first.
Our Business
We operate 90 manufacturing facilities, which are located in 
all major geographic regions of the world. Research facilities 
are located in the United States, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, 
Germany, India, Israel, the Netherlands, Poland, Singapore, Sweden, 
Switzerland and the United Kingdom, with additional R&D support in 
over 30 other countries.
Our global headquarters are in New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA. 
Johnson & Johnson has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
since 1944 under the symbol JNJ. For changes in our business during 
the reporting period, please visit page 83 of our 2020 Annual Report .
Pharmaceutical
Cardiovascular & 
Metabolism
Immunology
Infectious Diseases & 
Vaccines
Neuroscience
Oncology
Pulmonary HypertensionMedical Devices
Interventional Solutions
Orthopaedics
Surgery (General & 
Advanced)
VisionConsumer Health
Baby Care  
Oral Care  
OTC  
Skin Health/Beauty  
Women’s Health 
Wound CareAt Johnson & Johnson, we focus on the total health journey
Pharmaceutical
Medical 
DevicesConsumer 
Health
In this section, we share our progress in 2020 in the following areas:
Health for Humanity Strategy & Goals
Sustainability Governance
Sustainability Priorities
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
6Our Brands
Every day, we touch more than a billion lives with our products. Following are select 
brands that represent the diversity of the Johnson & Johnson product portfolio in our 
three business segments, spanning the broad continuum of healthcare.
Pharmaceutical Consumer Health Medical Devices
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
7Our Total Tax Contribution 1
Our Tax Responsibility: First published in 1943,  
Our Credo stipulates that paying taxes is our 
responsibility to the communities in which we live 
and work. Johnson & Johnson is committed to paying 
our fair share of taxes. Our tax footprint evolves 
over time and reflects our healthcare activities and 
investments, including in research and development and 
manufacturing. What has not changed or wavered is our 
commitment to good corporate citizenship, which we 
demonstrate through sustainable values and behaviors 
relating to tax governance, compliance, planning, 
risk management, relationships with governmental 
authorities and transparency; these are more fully 
described in our Johnson & Johnson Tax Policy . 
In 2020, Johnson & Johnson contributed approximately 
$12 billion in taxes and fees to governments and 
economies around the world. This Total Tax Contribution 
is made up of two components: Total Taxes Borne by the 
Company and Total Taxes Collected. Taxes Borne are a 
direct cost to the Company, whereas Taxes Collected 
are collected from customers and employees on behalf 
of governments and ultimately remitted to them.
Our intent is to provide a comprehensive view of total 
taxes paid around the world. Corporate Income Tax 
represents payments in all markets in which we operate 
and is the amount reported as Income Taxes Paid in the 
2020 Annual Report. Other taxes shown aggregate the 
Company’s data from 18 major markets representing the 
vast majority of our revenues. We aspire to include all 
markets in future years. 
Total Taxes Borne:  In 2020, Johnson & Johnson bore 
$6.7 billion in taxes around the world. The taxes include 
corporate income taxes, the Company’s share of payroll 
and social insurance taxes, and the Company’s share 
of sales and other taxes. Sales taxes include sales, use, 
and non-recoverable value-added tax. Other taxes 
are primarily composed of customs and other duties 
such as local taxes and special fees related to the 
pharmaceutical industry. Total Taxes Collected:  Additionally, in 2020 Johnson & 
Johnson collected $5.3 billion related to the commerce 
the Company generates. These collections were in the 
form of payroll and social insurance taxes for more than 
136,000 employees across the world, sales and use 
taxes and value-added taxes. These taxes are collected 
on behalf of governments, from employees, customers, 
and other business partners. Taxes Collected are an 
important part of the measure of the contribution made 
by Johnson & Johnson through job creation and business 
activities in the many countries in which we do business. 2020 Financial Results
Employees 136,400‡
R&D investment $12.2 billion
Total sales $82.6 billion
Net earnings $14.7 billion
Market price per share, 
year-end close$153.09
Number of consecutive 
years of dividend 
increases*59
‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants. 
* Includes dividend declared in April 2021.
Sales by Business Segment
Pharmaceutical $45.6 billion
Medical Devices $23.0 billion
Consumer Health $14.1 billion2020 Tax Contribution
Taxes  
BorneTaxes 
Collected
Corporate Income  
(billions)$4.6
Payroll and Social 
Insurance (billions)$1.3 $4.3
Sales/Use and Other  
(billions)$0.8 $1.0
Total (billions) $6.7 $5.3
Total Tax Contribution 
(billions)$12.0
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
8As the world’s largest and most broadly based 
healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson has a unique 
ability to apply its expertise and partnering power to 
solve some of the most difficult global health challenges. 
We focus our sustainability efforts where we believe our 
Company can achieve the greatest impact. These efforts 
are grounded in Our Credo  values, informed by our 
Company’s purpose to change the trajectory of health 
for humanity and based on our sustainability priorities 
identified through our Priority Topics Assessment . 
In those areas where we believe we can achieve the 
greatest impact we set goals and annually report our 
progress with independent assurance validation.
At Johnson & Johnson, our Health for Humanity 
sustainability approach means generating social, 
environmental and economic value for all of Our Credo 
stakeholders: patients, consumers, healthcare providers 
and all others we serve, employees, the communities  
in which we live and work, business partners, investors 
and society as a whole.
Our enterprise strategic framework provides clear 
guidance for both short-term and long-term decision-
making. It explains the philosophy behind how 
we operate and our response to global trends and 
societal shifts, and it identifies the levers that inform 
our response and actions. Through our enterprise 
principles—to remain broadly based in healthcare, 
use our reach and size for good, lead with agility and 
urgency, and invest for enduring impact—we frame 
the priorities for our business segments and enabling 
functions. And our growth drivers—creating life-
enhancing innovation, delivering excellence in execution, 
generating shared value through partnerships and 
empowering and inspiring our employees—facilitate and 
accelerate our ability to drive long-term value creation.
For our view and performance on environmental, social 
and governance, see our ESG Resources page  and our 
2020 ESG Summary .
  
Health for Humanity and UN SDGs 2020 
Performance Summaries
In 2016 we set an ambitious five-year plan to continue 
advancing better health for all, environmental 
stewardship and responsible business practices across 
our extended value chain by leveraging the power of our 
people, expertise and global partnerships. Our Health  
for Humanity 2020 Goals  are aligned with Johnson & 
Johnson's purpose and reflect the areas where we can 
make the greatest impact and where our stakeholders 
expect us to lead. Achieving our Health for Humanity 
Goals is integral to our commitment to create value for 
all stakeholders, and we consider them Key Performance 
Indicators of our environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) performance. Along with our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, we 
also announced our commitment in 2016 to support 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), the global framework for progress toward 
a more sustainable future for all, in the areas that 
reflect Johnson & Johnson's unique constellation of 
strengths: health workforce, women’s and children’s 
health, essential surgery, global disease challenges and 
environmental health. This Report reflects the final year 
of progress we made on our Health for Humanity Goals 
and UN SDGs Commitment and highlights how we 
envision living into Our Purpose through our Health  
for Humanity 2025 Goals.Health for Humanity Strategy & Goals
Our Foundation
Our Enterprise Principles
Be Broadly Based  
in Healthcare
Create Life-Enhancing 
InnovationUse Our Reach  
and Size for Good
Deliver Excellence  
in ExecutionLead with  
Agility and Urgency
Generate Value 
through PartnershipsInvest for  
Enduring Impact
Empower and Inspire 
Our EmployeesOur Global Growth DriversOur Credo
Our Purpose
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
9Health for Humanity 2020 Goals  
Progress Summary
We achieved significant progress in our final year 
of reporting against our Health for Humanity 2020 
Goals. Specifically, we achieved or exceeded 16 of the 
17 targets across the goal focus areas of: providing 
people with better health access and care, using 
fewer and smarter resources, and partnering to create 
a culture of health and well-being. The one target not 
fully achieved was enrolling suppliers covering 80% 
of our spend in our Supplier Sustainability Program. 
This was due to COVID-19 impacts experienced by 
Johnson & Johnson and by our suppliers.
This Scorecard provides an at-a-glance view of final 
progress made against our 2020 Goals. For full results, 
see our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress  
Scorecard .
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
10Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard At-A-Glance Status‡
1. Develop and deliver innovative, lifechanging solutions to address the world’s major health challenges.
Expand the database, documenting the effectiveness, efficacy, and safety profile of SIRTURO (bedaquiline) 
through collaborative efforts to further increase access.✓  Achieved
Collaborate on Phase 3 trials and make regulatory submissions for rilpivirine LA, the first all injectable depot 
regimen for HIV.✓  Achieved
2. Deliver innovative healthcare access and training programs that impact a billion lives in underserved areas.1
Produce and donate 1 billion doses of VERMOX (mebendazole) to treat >100 million children per year at risk for 
intestinal worms.+  Exceeded
Deliver HIV/AIDS therapy access to a cumulative 130,000 adults and 5,000 children. +  Exceeded
Deliver access to MDR-TB therapy to a cumulative 200,000 patients, potentially curing2  157,000 people3  with 
MDR-TB of the disease.+  Exceeded
Together with partners, train 30,000 skilled birth attendants to assist 6 million births. +  Exceeded
Support the delivery of 6 million vision screenings to underserved children and corrective treatments (spectacles) 
as needed to 100,000 underserved children.+  Exceeded
3. Collaborate with government, nonprofit and private sector to foster new models of health that improve economic well-being and 
healthcare in key emerging markets.
Activate signature partnerships/initiatives for five of our largest Consumer Health brands to promote the health 
and well-being of people in need around the world.✓  Achieved
Drive policy thought leadership and strategic engagements to expand healthcare access and coverage in at least 
three emerging markets (including Brazil, China and India), and lead three to five pilots to demonstrate the results 
of these efforts.4✓  Achieved
4. Fully integrate sustainable design solutions into our product innovation processes.
New and existing products representing 20% of Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved EARTHWARDS recognition 
for sustainable innovation improvements.+  Exceeded
Increase the recyclability of our Consumer Health product packaging to 90+% (on a weight basis) via design and 
partnerships in five key markets where mature recycling infrastructure exists (Canada, France, Germany, UK, and 
U.S.).5  In three other markets where recycling infrastructure is less mature engage in partnerships to advance 
material recovery and recycling efforts.✓  Achieved
5. Reduce our impacts on climate and water resources.
Reduce absolute carbon emissions 20% by 2020, and 80% by 2050. +  Exceeded 2020 Target
Produce/procure 35% of electricity from renewable sources by 2020; aspire to power all facilities with renewable 
energy by 2050.+  Exceeded 2020 Target
Conduct a comprehensive water risk assessment at 100% of manufacturing/R&D locations and implement 
resource protection plans at the high-risk sites.✓  Achieved
6. Collaborate with our suppliers to accelerate environmental and social improvements across the value chain.
Enroll suppliers covering 80% of our spend6  in our Supplier Sustainability Program.  Not Achieved 7
Consistently achieve benchmark spending with U.S. diverse suppliers and small suppliers and double the number 
of countries with established supplier diversity and inclusion programs.8+  Exceeded
7. Empower and engage the Johnson & Johnson family of employees to become the healthiest workforce.
Empower and engage employees toward a “personal best” in health and well-being via: training of at least 
100,000 employees in the principles of ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE;9  connecting at least 100,000 employees 
to their health via innovative digital health tools; and providing access to at least 100,000 employees to both fully 
implemented10 healthy eating and fully implemented healthy movement cultures.+  Exceeded‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data, 
have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statement by ERM 
CVS .
1 “Underserved” refers to populations that are disadvantaged because of ability 
to pay, ability to access care, ability to access comprehensive healthcare, or 
other disparities for reasons of race, religion, language. 
2 The cure rate is 87.8% for patients treated with bedaquiline containing 
regimens, based on The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, Volume 392, September 
2018, Pages 821-34.
3 As communicated through the product label, SIRTURO is taken for six months 
as part of a combination therapy with multiple other drugs; in total, a patient 
often requires up to two years of treatment to be cured.
4 Engagements are defined as contacts made between Johnson & Johnson’s 
Government Affairs & Policy and Global Public Health teams and the govern-
ments in each market. Pilots are defined as projects implemented among the 
population in markets to expand healthcare access and coverage.
5 In 2018 Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. signed the New Plastics Economy 
Global Commitment. By joining this global multi-stakeholder initiative, we set 
a new ambitious 2025 plastics packaging commitment, which supersedes our 
2020 target. Progress against the new 2025 commitment is reported in the 
Product Sustainability  section of this Report.
6 Based on spend data from prior calendar year.
7 The COVID-19 pandemic impacted both Johnson & Johnson’s capacity to 
perform supplier assessments and our suppliers’ ability to dedicate time and 
resources to meet the requirements of our Supplier Sustainability Program. As 
a result, we were unable to assess, and therefore unable to enroll enough of our 
supply base to achieve our 2020 target.  
8 Represents spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as 
products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to 
meet business goals. 
9 We count our 28,000 active employees who completed ENERGY FOR 
PERFORMANCE training prior to January 1, 2016, toward progress against this 
target.
10 Defined as 100% implementation of policies, programs and practices for both 
healthy eating and healthy movement.UN SDGs Commitment Progress Summary
The cumulative progress reported here is for the 
2016 – 2020 timeframe and represents an at-a-
glance view of final progress made against our initial 
SDG commitment. We exceeded four out of the five 
targets across the aspirations of health workforce, 
essential surgery, global disease challenges and 
environmental health. We did not fully achieve our 
target relating to women’s and children’s health due 
to a change in strategy (see footnote below). For 
additional details on progress see our full UN SDGs  
Commitment Progress Scorecard .
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
11UN Sustainable Development Goals Commitment Progress Scorecard  
At-A-GlanceProgress for 2016 – 2020‡ 
implementation years
Health Workforce: A world where the current and future healthcare workforce has the necessary competencies to deliver high-quality 
healthcare.
650,000 health workers will have received training to better deliver quality healthcare.902,000 healthcare providers (139% 
of overall goal achieved)  
+  Exceeded
Women’s & Children’s Health: A world where every woman and child survives and has the opportunity for a healthy future.
60 million women and children will have received support and tools to enable a healthy future.50.9 million women and children (85% 
of overall goal achieved)*
 Not Achieved
Essential Surgery: A world where safe, essential and timely surgical care can be accessed by all to save lives, prevent disability, promote 
economic growth, and reduce social marginalization.
50 million people will have had access to safe, essential and timely surgical care.74.9 million beneficiaries  
(150% of overall goal achieved)
+  Exceeded
Global Disease Challenges: A world where innovations and holistic health solutions  
prevent, control and eliminate global disease challenges and epidemics.
175 million individuals will have benefited from Johnson & Johnson solutions that prevent, control and 
eliminate global diseases.520 million beneficiaries (297% of 
overall goal achieved)
+  Exceeded
Environmental Health: A world where all people have healthy places to live, work and play.
60 million citizens living across 30 cities will have benefited from climate and air quality actions that 
have the potential to positively impact public health.74 million citizens across 30 cities 
benefited from climate and air quality 
actions through 2020
+  Exceeded
‡ Progress against our UN SDGs Commitment, and associated data, have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statement by ERM CVS .
* This five-year target is predominantly supported by Johnson & Johnson Foundation grants facilitated by the Global Community Impact organization. We are reporting 
the target as not achieved due to a shift in our strategy in 2019, which transitioned from programs primarily reaching consumer groups directly to programs targeting 
frontline health workers (i.e., nurses, midwives, and community health workers). We believe this transition will have greater, more far-reaching and sustainable impact 
on women’s and children’s lives in the longer term. The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the critical needs facing our frontline health workers and their unique 
ability to address the healthcare needs of our society, and in particular, the underserved. The new commitment we announced in early 2020 acknowledges the pivotal 
role that health workers play in providing essential services to these groups. As such, the programming and tracking toward the original goal transitioned, with fewer 
programs directly reaching women and children and more programs reaching the health workers who serve them. Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
Our new Health for Humanity 2025 Goals represent 
an ambitious next step in our journey to profoundly 
impact the trajectory of health for billions of 
people. Our Goals were informed by our Priority  
Topics Assessment , the SDGs and the trends and 
events of 2020. They were based on a collaborative 
cross-functional approach, supported by a clear 
governance and oversight structure including two 
Executive Committee sponsors, and informed by 
internal and external stakeholder feedback. The 
2025 Goals were reviewed and approved by our  
full Executive Committee and reviewed by the 
Board of Directors’ Science, Technology & 
Sustainability Committee. The 21 Goals reflect our 
commitment to advance a healthier world where 
people and communities can thrive so the next 
generation is healthier than the last. Through our 
Goals, we will actively contribute to 11 SDGs, which 
span global health, social justice, environmental 
stewardship and responsible business practices, 
while taking on two of the most fundamental health 
challenges of our time: pandemics and epidemics, 
and global health equity.
Our Goals progress in future years will be 
tracked and independently assured against Key 
Performance Indicators identified for each Goal. 
Our 2025 Goals are highlighted throughout this 
Report. 
Learn more: Health for Humanity 2025 Goals .
Johnson & Johnson strongly supports the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. Through our 
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals, we are contributing 
to the global effort to achieve a majority of the SDGs 
by supporting 11 of the 17, spanning the spheres 
of global health, social justice, environmental 
stewardship and responsible business practices.UN Sustainable Development GoalsOur PeopleGlobal Health  
Equity
Global Access Plans
Access to Tuberculosis Treatment
Support Frontline Health Workers
Access to HIV TreatmentAccess to Schizophrenia 
Treatment
Reduce Burden of Obstetric 
Fistula
Healthcare for Women
Women in Management
Ethnic/Racial Diversity  
in Management
Black/African Americans  
in Management
Healthiest Workforce Score
Women in STEM²DPandemics & 
Epidemics
Preventive Viral Vaccine 
Capabilities
Vaccination Monitoring Platform
Developing Tuberculosis 
Treatment
Our Planet
Renewable Electricity 
Carbon Neutrality for  
our Operations
Scope 3 Emissions ReductionsOur Partners
Supplier Sustainability Program
Global Supplier Diversity  
and Inclusion
Partnerships for Good
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
12Sustainability 
Governance
GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-26, 102-29, 102-32
Robust governance structures with clear chains 
of accountability enable us to deliver on both our 
commitments and stakeholder expectations. Our 
sustainability governance includes Board of Directors 
oversight, management accountability, corporate 
policies and management systems, and clearly stated 
public policies and positions on key environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) topics. We view effective 
management of these matters as a business fundamental 
and seek continuous improvement in these areas 
because they underpin the long-term success of 
our Company and our ability to deliver value for our 
stakeholders.
The Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Governance 
Council (EGC) serves as the primary governance 
body overseeing ESG  topics and supporting the 
implementation of the Company’s Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework. The EGC is comprised  
of senior leaders who represent our Pharmaceutical, 
Medical Devices and Consumer Health business 
segments and our global enterprise functions with 
oversight of these priority issues. 
In 2020, the EGC considered an assessment of its 
current governance structure and kicked off a project 
to optimize governance to reflect the evolving nature of 
management of ESG topics across the Company. The 
EGC also oversaw the work of the Enterprise Human 
Rights Governance Council, which reports to the EGC 
and is responsible for strengthening our approach to 
human rights due diligence and management. See our 
section on Human Rights . In addition to developing an 
ESG training program for EGC members and their teams 
launching in 2021, the EGC oversaw the process for 
setting our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals . The EGC 
also oversaw and supported the Company’s Priority  
Topics Assessment  (PTA) update undertaken in late 2020 
to better understand the impacts of the COVID-19pandemic and the social and racial injustice movement 
on stakeholder views regarding sustainability priorities 
for Johnson & Johnson. 
For more information, see our Position on Sustainability  
Governance .
Engaging with Our Stakeholders
GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44
As a global healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson 
interacts with numerous stakeholder groups at the 
global, national and local levels. Our Credo, written 
more than 75 years ago, embraces the diversity of 
stakeholders to whom we are responsible, and serves as 
our guide to creating long-term value for our Company 
and for society. Ongoing and proactive engagement 
with these groups makes our Company stronger and 
better informed. It helps us gain valuable insight into our 
stakeholders’ perspectives and the topics that matter 
to them. It enables us to develop products and services 
that are responsive to their needs. This engagement also 
allows us to share information about our Company’s 
strategy, practices and performance. The following are 
select examples of stakeholder engagements conducted 
in 2020.
Stakeholder engagement on ESG:  The PTA  is an 
important mechanism to engage with and understand 
the views of our key stakeholders on ESG topics that 
they believe are priority for Johnson & Johnson.  
In 2020, we conducted a PTA update that engaged 
Johnson & Johnson leaders spanning multiple functions 
and geographies, and external stakeholders including 
NGOs, partners, suppliers and customers.
Members of both our management team and the Board 
of Directors met virtually with many shareholders 
around the world to discuss our Health for Humanity 
sustainability approach and our progress in key ESG 
measures. In June 2020, we hosted our third Health for 
Humanity Report investor webcast to accompany the 
release of our annual Health for Humanity Report. It 
provided shareholders the opportunity to ask questions 
of leaders in Investor Relations, Quality & Compliance, 
Medical Safety, Global Public Health and Environmental 
Health, Safety & Sustainability.Participation in strategic initiatives: To support 
dialogue and efforts related to the role of business 
in society, we continued to participate in important 
initiatives like the Council for Inclusive Capitalism with 
The Vatican, Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose’s 
CEO Investor Forum and Business Roundtable (BRT). 
Johnson & Johnson’s Chairman and CEO, Alex Gorsky, 
serves as Chair of BRT's Corporate Governance 
Committee while Wanda Hope, Johnson & Johnson’s 
Chief Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Officer, chairs 
BRT’s Diversity and Inclusion Working Group. In 
December 2020, Johnson & Johnson was recognized 
as the first foreign-funded open innovation platform 
to have been accredited by the Shanghai Municipal 
People's Government, allowing Johnson & Johnson 
to support Shanghai in the development of globally 
influential scientific innovation centers. In September 
2020, Johnson & Johnson joined other life sciences 
companies and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 
signing an unprecedented communiqué  that outlined 
a commitment to equitable access to the innovations 
being developed to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.
Engaging with policymakers: As a global company, 
Johnson & Johnson works with patient groups, 
providers, governments, and other stakeholders 
worldwide to ensure patients have access to affordable, 
safe, quality healthcare. We work with health systems, 
so they may recognize and value medical innovation, 
and we support others who share our goals. We are 
committed to working with stakeholders so they have  
a better understanding of the positions we take, why  
we take them and how we work to advance them.
In 2020, we engaged in a variety of forums in the United 
States and around the world to advance policy related 
to the efficient and equitable access for COVID-19 
vaccines. Further, recognizing the pandemic’s impact 
on health inequities and the importance of addressing 
the needs of diverse populations, we supported the 
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of 
America’s release of industry-wide principles to address 
diversity in clinical trials and participated in a Women's 
Congressional Policy Institute briefing on “Childbirth 
Should Not be a Death Sentence: Global Maternal Health 
and the Impact of COVID-19.” We also advocated for key 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
13Increasing importance
Johnson & Johnson Perspective
(Impact on business)Increasing importanceExternal
Stakeholder
Perspective
(Degree of
stakeholder
concern)
Waste ManagementDisclosure
& TransparencyClimate, Energy Use
& EmissionsSustainable
Products
Pricing
Safe & Healthy
WorkforceResponsible
Supplier BaseDiversity, Equity
& InclusionStrengthening 
Health SystemsAdvancing
Public HealthConsumer &
Patient Safety
AccessProduct Quality
Ethics & 
Compliance
R&D Investment
Supply Integrity,
Counterfeit & 
Illicit TradeDigital Innovation
& Emerging TechnologiesWorkforce Attraction 
& DevelopmentCyber Risk
& PrivacyBioethics
Local Economic
Development
Intellectual PropertyWater ManagementHuman Rights
Governance
2020 Priority Topics Matrixpieces of legislation, including the Black Maternal Health 
Momnibus Act of 2020 in Congress and extending 
Medicaid’s postpartum insurance coverage for  
pregnant women from an arbitrary 60-day period  
to the 12 months following birth. As the founding 
knowledge partner and sponsor of All Policies for a 
Healthy Europe, in 2020 we helped develop numerous 
publications across thematic areas of the economy 
of well-being (covering COVID-19, health systems 
sustainability, value-based healthcare, mental health  
and cancer), digital health and environmental health. 
Please see our approach to Public Policy Engagement . 
Engaging with ESG standard setters: In 2020, the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in partnership with 
the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, published 
a new framework called the Culture of Health for 
Business (COH4B) , as part of a goal to stimulate private 
sector contribution to health through the practice 
of sustainability reporting. The publication followed 
two years of consultation and development, in which 
Johnson & Johnson participated as a member of the 
COH4B Advisory Committee. In this 2020 Health for 
Humanity Report, we report our performance against 
COH4B practices and metrics. Visit the Reporting Hub  
to see our COH4B Framework .
Improving our ESG Policies and Positions: As 
transparency and disclosure on ESG has become of 
increasing interest among various stakeholders, we have 
continued to improve our disclosure on key ESG topics 
in 2020 with separate positions on a discrimination-
free workplace, our innovative ecosystem, our efforts 
to strengthen health systems and our commitment 
to business continuity. For more information see ESG  
Policies & Positions .
Stakeholder engagement for this Report: Various 
internal stakeholders across Johnson & Johnson’s global 
teams provided their input for this Report. The Chairman 
and CEO, the Disclosure Sub-Committee and the 
Disclosure Committee reviewed the Report outline and 
new metrics, and the Disclosure Committee reviewed 
the full Report. The final content was reviewed by the  
full Executive Committee, including the Chairman and 
CEO. See also our Position on Stakeholder Engagement .Sustainability 
Priorities
GRI 102-47
Stakeholder expectations and the business environment 
in which we operate constantly evolve. Our PTA  process 
helps us identify and prioritize the environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) topics that matter most to our 
stakeholders and to our Company. The results inform 
and shape our sustainability priorities, public goal setting 
and reporting.We have been conducting PTAs every two to three years 
since 2008, with our most recent in-depth assessment 
conducted in 2019. In light of the global events of 
2020, we conducted an interim 2020 PTA update to 
understand if and how this pivotal year may have shifted 
the stakeholder perceptions regarding Johnson & 
Johnson’s ESG  priorities. The update showed evidence 
for increases in importance of 13 topics with the largest 
increases for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, Strengthening 
Health Systems and Access. A detailed description of 
the 2020 PTA process, methodology and definitions of 
topics can be found here .
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
14United in 
Defeating 
COVID-19
In late 2019, reports of a novel coronavirus sparked international 
concern among the scientific community. Within months, SARS-
CoV-2 had spread to nearly every continent, shutting down entire 
cities and countries and igniting a global effort to find a vaccine that 
could stop the virus from impacting more damage.  
Since then, the COVID-19 pandemic has stretched global healthcare 
systems and posed a critical challenge for governments, healthcare 
authorities, health professionals and the industries supporting the 
healthcare infrastructure. 
Whether directly or indirectly, COVID-19 has had a drastic and 
oftentimes devastating impact on the lives of people worldwide. 
Restrictions and isolation have placed people under great stress 
where limited access to healthcare continues to take a severe toll on 
mental health leading to increased anxiety and fear.
Throughout our more than 130-year history, Johnson & Johnson has 
a legacy of responding during crisis. We have actively engaged in 
fighting global outbreaks from tuberculosis to HIV and Ebola. Our 
knowledge and experience, successes and setbacks alike inform 
everything we have done to tackle COVID-19. 
Johnson & Johnson moved swiftly, mobilizing our research teams, 
establishing key partnerships and collaborations, and committing to 
put every resource at the Company's disposal to develop a vaccine 
to help combat the pandemic. In just over a year, our dedication 
came to fruition with the delivery of a COVID-19 vaccine candidate 
at a not-for-profit price that has been approved for emergency use 
as a single-dose injection in countries around the world. Taking into 
account issues of access, equity, supply chain infrastructure and the 
varied needs of a global population, we are providing an important 
component to a worldwide vaccination strategy for a virus unlike 
anything we’ve seen in a century.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
15Executive Committee
• Enterprise oversight, strategic direction and approvalsCOVID-19 Pandemic Governance: Structure and Roles
Global Pandemic Crisis Management Team
• 30 subject matter experts in relief and emergency supplies, employee well-being and support, 
travel and security, facility opening readiness, communications and clinical services
• Global guidance and governance
• Global standards for employee protection and business continuity
• Providing resources in support of our business and our people
Regional Subject Matter Experts
• Formed at a regional/country level to coordinate response and recovery
• Operational coordination and regional alignment
Local Leadership & Crisis Management Teams
• Local teams formed at site level to manage site responses to a business continuity question
• Pandemic plan execution
• Facilities management in accordance with global guidelines
• Local communications and leadership/employee engagement
• Local feedbackWhile our global efforts have focused on combating the COVID-19 
pandemic and ensuring care for those directly affected, the need to 
maintain healthcare for those with other medical conditions while 
also providing support for those feeling the social, economic and 
mental health impacts of the pandemic has been equally important. 
We have leveraged the full scale of our science, capabilities, 
expertise and team of more than 136,000 compassionate colleagues 
to address the many different facets of one of the most significant 
healthcare crises in our history.  
Structuring our COVID-19 response:  From the outset, Johnson & 
Johnson formed a dedicated Global Pandemic Crisis Management 
Team to combat and mitigate the negative impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic on our business. More than 50 global cross-functional 
teams with representation at all levels worked together to make 
the best decisions for their local geography while driving global 
alignment and consistency. 
See here  for the most recent updates on our continued efforts  
to address the COVID-19 pandemic.
In this section, we describe the main elements of how  
we are united in defeating COVID-19 under four themes:
Caring for Patients
Supporting the Front Lines of Care
Protecting Employees
Supply Chain Resilience
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
16Caring for Patients
During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have maintained 
a dual approach to caring for patients: 
First, we continued to meet the ongoing needs of 
patients and the continuity of supply of our lifesaving 
medicines, consumer health products and medical 
devices during these challenging times. 
Second, we leveraged our resources to accelerate  
the development of an effective COVID-19 vaccine 
and screened compounds in discovery and 
development within our organization to determine 
whether previously tested medicines can be used  
to help patients. 
Advancing a Vaccine  
Vaccines are key to eradicating the COVID-19 
pandemic. For years, Johnson & Johnson has 
invested in building state-of-the-art antiviral and 
vaccine capabilities, which we have used to develop 
and manufacture our Ebola vaccine regimen and 
construct our investigational Zika, RSV and HIV 
vaccine candidates. We have used these capabilities 
and facilities to accelerate our efforts to develop a 
COVID-19 vaccine, moving with the utmost urgency 
while ensuring quality, compliance and safety 
protocols are observed. Within a year, we began 
manufacturing our single-shot COVID-19 vaccine, 
authorized by the Food and Drug Administration for 
emergency use.
ABOVE: Wang D., a Senior Strategic Account Manager for Medical 
Devices at Johnson & Johnson China, helped coordinate Johnson   & 
Johnson’s donations of Company products and globally sourced 
personal protective equipment in Wuhan, where he lives with his 
family, during the pandemic.
LEFT: Laura G., Health Economics & Access Manager, Johnson  & 
Johnson Medical GmbH, is a former general nurse who used 
Johnson & Johnson’s COVID-19 Medical Personnel Leave 
Policy — which enabled medically trained employees worldwide 
to take a paid leave to provide medical services and help diagnose, 
treat and contribute to public health support for COVID-19 — to 
volunteer in the ICU at a hospital in Hamburg, Germany.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
17Timeline of Johnson & Johnson’s COVID-19 Vaccine Development (through March 31, 2021)
PRIOR TO COVID-19
More than 100 years  
of experience, research 
and development 
expertise in combating 
epidemics, pandemics 
and global pathogens 
that threaten public 
health. 
Johnson & Johnson 
introduced the epidemic 
mask in 1919 to help 
contain the Spanish Flu. 
Thereafter followed 
notable successes in 
vaccine technology for 
diseases such as Ebola, 
Zika and HIV, creating 
a strong foundation for 
the development of a 
vaccine that is effective 
in containing COVID-19.APRIL 2020
Cofounded the Pandemic  
Action Network  with 
the Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation, with support 
from additional global 
partners.   
This new advocacy and 
communications initiative 
aims to advocate for 
policy changes and 
increased resources to 
ensure countries are better 
prepared to prevent, detect 
and respond to future 
pandemic threats.FEBRUARY 2020
Formed an expanded 
collaboration on the 
vaccine program with 
BARDA .  
Together with BARDA , 
we committed to invest 
more than $1 billion to 
co-fund vaccine research, 
development, and clinical 
testing. JANUARY 2020
Initiated development 
of a vaccine candidate 
against COVID-19 and 
collaborations to screen 
a library of antiviral 
therapies that provide 
relief in advance of new 
therapy development.
Our vaccine program 
leverages Janssen’s ADVAC 
technology that was used 
in the development of 
our investigational Ebola 
vaccine, which is currently 
deployed in the Democratic  
Republic of the Congo and 
Rwanda , and also used to 
construct our investigational 
Zika, RSV and HIV  vaccine 
candidates.SEPTEMBER 2020
Joined biopharma 
companies in a 
#WeStandWithScience  
pledge to prioritize the 
safety and well-being  
of vaccinated individuals 
in the development of 
COVID-19 vaccines.  
The pledge, signed by 
Johnson & Johnson’s 
CEO and CEOs of 
eight major biopharma 
companies, outlines a 
united commitment to 
uphold the integrity of the 
scientific process as we all 
worked toward potential 
global regulatory filings 
and approvals of the first 
COVID-19 vaccines.
Johnson & Johnson  
epidemic mask during  
the 1918 flu pandemic.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
18FEBRUARY 2021
Received EUA from the 
FDA for our single-dose 
COVID-19 vaccine  to 
prevent COVID-19 in individuals 18 years of  
age and older. 
To learn more about our 
COVID-19 vaccine, see the Product Fact Sheet .DECEMBER 2020
Signed an Agreement in Principle with Gavi to supply our COVID-19 vaccine to lower-income countries in 2021.
We will provide up to 
500 million doses of our COVID-19 vaccine in 2021 and 2022 under our  
Agreement in Principle with  
The Vaccine Alliance (Gavi) , 
the leading multilateral organization responsible for equitable access to vaccines and coordination of COVID-19 vaccine distribution, including to lower-income countries,  
via the COVAX Facility.MARCH 2021
Received additional authorizations and approved listings  
for our single-dose COVID-19 vaccine.
Received Conditional 
Marketing Authorization (CMA) by the European Commission, Authorization under Interim Order by Health Canada for Emergency Use, and Emergency Use Listing (EUL) by World Health Organization. 2Read the full details of each of these milestone events in our vaccine development in our COVID-19 Media Center . 
We aim to make our 
vaccine available on a not-for-pro/f_it basis for emergency pandemic useVaccine Manufacturing, 
Supply and Access
Access to 
a Vaccine
J&J Works in Partnership
Johnson & Johnson is collaborating to help ensure our research platforms and 
outbreak expertise can be maximized to stem this pandemic. We have worked closely with clinical trial investigators and governments around the world, in addition to partnering with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC).
For more information on Johnson & Johnson's approach to help combat COVID-19, visit jnj.com/coronavirus.  
The Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine has not been approved or licensed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) but 
has been authorized by FDA through an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for active immunization to prevent Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in individuals 18 years of age and older.
The emergency use of this product is authorized only for the duration of the declaration that circumstances exist 
justifying the authorization of the emergency use of the medical product under Section 564(b)(1) of the FD&C Act, unless the declaration is terminated or authorization revoked sooner.
Please read Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) Fact Sheet for Healthcare Providers Administering Vaccine (Vaccination 
Providers) including full EUA Prescribing Information available at www.JanssenCOVID19Vaccine.com/EUA-factsheet.
The COVID-19 vaccine has also been granted a Conditional Marketing Authorization from the European Commission for 
use in 27 member states of the European Union (EU), plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, and has been issued an Emergency Use Listing by the World Health Organization.
i https:/ /www.fda.gov/consumers/consumer-updates/are-you-storing-food-safely 
This factsheet has been approved for U.S. use only. For use outside of the U.S., local reviews and approvals in the country must be conducted before use.© Johnson & Johnson
Last updated: May 2021Most refrigerators 
store food at or below4° C / 40° F and 
freezers clock in at or below -18° C  / 0° F
iThe C
ompany’s anticipated 
manufacturing timeline will enable it to meet its full year 2021 supply commitments, including those signed with governments and global organizationsOur vaccine is estimated to remain stable for two
years at -20°C / -4°F  and a maximum of three 
months of which can be at temperatures of 2-8° C / 36°–46° F
Transportation and storage of our vaccine is compatible with 
standard vaccine storage and distribution channels 
We plan to allocate up to 500 million vaccine doses to lower income countries17 countries have ongoing 
Phase 1, 2, 3 trials
ENSEMBLE Phase 3 topline data 
demonstrated that the vaccine candidate met 
primary endpoints~4 5,000 participants enrolled in 
o
ur single-dose Phase 3 ENSEMBLE trial   
Aiming for ~30,000 participants 
t
o be enrolled in our two-dose 
regimen Phase 3 ENSEMBLE 2 trial Timeline of Johnson & Johnson’s COVID-19 Vaccine Development (through March 31, 2021)
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
19Additional considerations and initiatives in our COVID-19 
vaccine program included: 
Resourcing for quality during COVID-19:  We joined our 
peer companies in signing a historic pledge to uphold the 
integrity of the scientific and manufacturing processes in 
developing an investigational COVID-19 vaccine. And, at 
Johnson & Johnson, we continue to ensure all aspects of 
our COVID-19 vaccine development program meet our 
safety and quality standards. This includes:
• Dedicating employees with deep expertise in 
infectious disease and vaccines to focus solely on 
vaccine development;
• Appointing a senior Quality Leader to serve in a newly 
created role focused on the execution of vaccine 
development, manufacturing, storage and distribution; 
• Creating a new website to enable customer access 
to product information and up-to-date expiry date of 
COVID-19 vaccines under EUA ; and• Supporting our manufacturing collaborators with 
on-site personnel and expertise in quality, safety, 
manufacturing technical operations and compliance.
Quality and compliance in the development of our 
COVID-19 vaccine:  We maintain a strong focus on 
quality, compliance and excellence  in our COVID-19 
vaccine program through a dedicated Quality & 
Compliance team to ensure compliance readiness at all 
levels; collaborating with regulatory agencies including 
the FDA  and EMA , and enlisting an independent Data 
and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) made up of clinical 
research experts, physicians, and statisticians to monitor 
safety data and clinical trial progress.
Commitment to safety in COVID-19 vaccine clinical 
trials:  We set up an independent, external expert Safety 
Advisory Board for advice on post-authorization safety 
planning through our COVID-19 vaccine clinical trial 
program. We have partnered with external independent 
safety panels, health authorities, institutional review 
boards and cross-industry consortia. We have also 
published  our statistical approaches and clinical trial 
protocols, an unprecedented step in our commitment to 
transparency throughout clinical development. Further, we are collaborating with other companies developing 
COVID-19 vaccines to enable the sharing of and access 
to datasets relevant to vaccine safety surveillance and 
the development of a registry to monitor vaccine safety 
in pregnancy.
Assuring cyber protection for vaccine development: 
Our Information Security & Risk Management (ISRM) 
team launched a COVID-19 Vaccine Cybersecurity 
Program, dedicated to the security of our vaccine 
development, manufacturing and distribution. The 
program included targeted protection for key personnel 
or those with a public or media presence, detection and 
response activities, securing collaboration methods with 
internal and external partners, raising user awareness 
of secure methods for data sharing, enhancing security 
measures through focused security monitoring, 
conducting security assessments of critical partners 
and vendors, and deploying advanced threat detection 
and protection capabilities. We also collaborated with 
government agencies, industry groups, and key partners 
to share threat intelligence. See also our Positions on 
Information Security  and Data Privacy .
Diverse representation in COVID-19 vaccine trials: 
As part of our commitment to the communities most 
impacted by COVID-19, we have ensured a diverse and 
representative group of study volunteers in our vaccine 
clinical trials. Such representation helps us learn how 
differences like age, race and ethnicity may impact 
the efficacy and safety of our vaccine candidate. The 
ENSEMBLE Phase 3 clinical trial for our single-dose 
COVID-19 vaccine enrolled approximately 45,000 
participants from eight countries, with volunteers 
representing age and ethnic/racial diversity. 
Approximately 45,000 enrolled participants
globally across eight countries
34%66% Asian
GlobalBlack/African American
Hispanic/Latinx
Native American
White/Caucasian3%
6%
19%
13%
45%
15%
59%
74%9%
1%
USAge 60+
Interim data as of 27 January 2021, 
subject to changeAge 18-59We are harnessing our deep scientific expertise, 
collaborations and global reach to keep the public 
informed on the latest scientific developments 
relating to COVID-19 and vaccines. We raised  
the bar for transparency with the introduction of 
The Road to a Vaccine , an educational video series 
hosted by Lisa Ling, which examines the latest 
efforts to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic  
and breaks down the complex process of 
developing a vaccine. The series also shares the 
latest developments on the work underway by  
many to bring access to a vaccine to billions  
around the world.We are committed to our 
high-quality, safety and 
ethical standards each and 
every day, and the quality of 
our investigational vaccine 
candidate is no different; we 
will never compromise quality 
and safety for speed.
Carol Montandon , Worldwide Vice 
President, Global Chief Quality Officer, 
Johnson & Johnson“
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
20Leveraging real-world data to support COVID-19 
vaccine development:  Our teams from Epidemiology, 
Research & Development, Data Sciences, Global Clinical 
Organization and scientists across the United States 
collaborated to analyze data to predict the optimal 
locations for our vaccine trials, enabling enrollment of 
people with a higher likelihood of developing COVID-19, 
thereby enhancing the design of the clinical trials for 
our COVID-19 vaccine candidate. This data-driven 
prioritization of participants at high risk of symptomatic 
infection based on demographics, occupation,  
and/or underlying health conditions involved extensive 
collaboration with local healthcare systems leaders  
in different regions. Our Johnson & Johnson Office  
of the Chief Medical Officer ( OCMO ) team also  
co-led the COVID19 Rapid Collaboration Call with the 
European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN)  
in spring 2020 to provide financial and technical support 
for harmonizing data to the Observational Medical 
Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) common data model,  
to help facilitate more rapid open science on COVID-19. 
Solving critical COVID-19 questions with health 
data science:  In March 2020, Johnson & Johnson 
co-led the Observational Health Data Sciences and 
Informatics (OHDSI) four-day Virtual Study-A-Thon 
to generate immediate RWE  on prioritized questions 
shared by national governments and other healthcare 
organizations and design COVID-19-specific studies that 
can be validated when such data are available. Eighty-
eight hours of collaboration between more than 350 
participants from 30 countries resulted in innovative 
studies aimed to generate new findings to aid decision-
making in response to the pandemic. The studies 
were published in The Lancet Rheumatology , Nature  
Communications  and The Lancet Digital Health . 
Partnering to accelerate response to health threats: 
We announced the first companies to participate in  
BLUE KNIGHT™, our joint initiative with BARDA . This 
joint initiative aims to stimulate innovation and incubation 
of technologies that improve health security and response through companies focused on public health 
threats and emerging infectious diseases. Blue Knight 
companies continue to be selected on a rolling basis 
and include those working to fill gaps in the current set 
of potential COVID-19 solutions, as well as solutions for 
future health threats.  
Helping Eradicate Health Inequities 
While developing a safe and effective vaccine against 
COVID-19 has been a major focus since the start of 
the pandemic, we have placed equal importance on 
addressing the disproportionate effect of the pandemic 
on ethnically diverse communities. Through Our Race  
to Health Equity initiative, we seek to help eradicate 
health inequities for people of color, many of which have 
emerged or been exacerbated by the COVID-19 crisis. 
We are working directly with many branches of 
government and partnering with advocates, NGOs 
and leadership bodies like the U.S. Congressional 
Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF) to lend our voice 
and expertise to improving health outcomes in Black 
communities. In 2020, we supported as a title sponsor 
CBCF's “Policy for the People” webinar series with 
experts, prominent thought leaders and CBC members, 
debating issues of public policy related to COVID-19. In 
February 2021, we partnered with CBCF to deliver the 
2021 Health Equity Summit  addressing the impact of the COVID-19 vaccine on the Black community and mental 
health realities for Black America.
Advocating for health equity:  In the context of the AIDS 
2020 conference, Macaya Douoguih, Head, Janssen 
Clinical Development and Medical Affairs, Vaccines, 
published an open letter on systemic racism and health  
disparities , in which she urged all to understand that 
COVID-19 causes substantially more morbidity and 
mortality in underserved, underrepresented populations 
and that more must be done to drive equity in our global 
approach to managing through the pandemic.
Promoting Black maternal health:  In 2020, our Health 
of Women team within OCMO  prioritized two maternal 
health issues: understanding COVID-19 in pregnancy and 
addressing the Black maternal health crisis in the United 
States. Colleagues from Health of Women introduced a 
“No Patient Safety Without Equity ” campaign to educate 
women about the relationship between COVID-19 and 
maternal health. They worked with our Worldwide 
Government Affairs & Policy team and other partners to 
advocate for key pieces of legislation, including the Black 
Maternal Health Momnibus Act of 2020 in Congress and 
extending Medicaid’s postpartum insurance coverage 
for pregnant women from an arbitrary 60-day period  
to the 12 months following birth.  Because we never stopped 
putting the world’s most 
vulnerable and underserved 
populations at the heart of 
everything we do, we have 
never been in a better position 
to secure their health.
Martin Fitchet, M.D., Global Head,  
Global Public Health, Johnson & Johnson“
Dr. Douoguih noted:  No single organization 
can solve the full range of these challenges. 
However, together as a community we must 
step up and act. At Johnson & Johnson, our 
actions are focused in three areas that we 
believe are essential to drive change:
1. Strengthening data and insights on 
COVID-19 health disparities;
2. Driving health education and awareness, to 
accelerate the development of solutions and 
strategies to address health disparities; and
3. Supporting community leaders and frontline 
health workers with the resources they 
need to improve the health and vitality of 
underserved communities.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
21Addressing Patient Needs
Our initiatives addressing broader patient needs in the 
context of the COVID-19 pandemic include providing 
tools to help people through the pandemic, developing 
solutions to health issues exacerbated by COVID-19, 
and securing the availability of urgent equipment and 
products. Examples are:
Leveraging our innovation platforms:  In May  
2020, Johnson & Johnson GPH  and JLABS  together 
launched the DR-TB Lifeline QuickFire Challenge ,  
a hackathon-style initiative aimed at finding creative, 
community-based solutions to help ensure continuity 
of care for drug-resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB)  
patients in high-burden countries in the midst of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. These solutions will be critical 
in addressing the serious disruptions in DR-TB care 
caused by COVID-19, which has weakened already-
fragile health systems. Infrastructure typically used to 
diagnose and provide in-patient care for DR-TB patients 
has been reallocated to the fight against COVID-19. 
Lockdowns have made it difficult for DR-TB patients 
to access face-to-face care, putting efforts to ensure 
treatment adherence and prevent the development 
of drug resistance at risk. The five winning innovators 
received grant funding from a total of $250,000 and 
the opportunity to engage with experts from Johnson & 
Johnson to help bring their ideas to life. 
Engaging nurses in COVID-19 innovation: The  
Johnson & Johnson Nurses Innovate QuickFire 
Challenge Series invites nurses worldwide to develop 
and share novel treatment approaches that have the 
power to profoundly change human health. Nurse 
innovators with the best ideas receive up to $100,000 
in grant funding, access to mentoring from Johnson  & 
Johnson and access to our JLABS  ecosystem to 
help bring their ideas to life. In 2020, we launched 
two challenges directly related to COVID-19, one 
relating to COVID-19 patient care , and one relating 
to mental health . Both challenges received hundreds 
of submissions. Additionally, Johnson & Johnson 
partnered with SONSIEL, Microsoft and dev up  to 
launch the NurseHack4Health virtual hackathon series  
to encourage nurses and technology specialists to find tech-based solutions for the most pressing COVID-19 
healthcare challenges. More than 500 hackers joined 
the first NurseHack4Health event in May 2020 and over 
650 participated in the second event in November 2020. 
View the video here .  
Doubling access to ventilators: In March 2020, Ethicon, 
a part of JJMDC , and Prisma Health collaborated to 
deliver an urgently needed ventilator expansion device 
called the VESper™ Ventilator Expansion Splitter . 
VESper was authorized by the FDA  for emergency use, 
allowing a single ventilator to be fitted with the Ventilator 
Splitter to enable two rescuable COVID-19 patients to 
receive ventilatory support until individual ventilators 
could be made available. The innovative collaboration 
used 3D printing technology to bring the splitter rapidly 
from prototype to launch in just 10 days. Leveraging 
our key supplier relationships, we manufactured and 
distributed thousands of VESper units at no cost to 
healthcare providers in the United States. In March 
2021, Johnson & Johnson earned a Gartner, Inc. Power 
of the Profession Award in the category of “Customer 
or Patient Innovation of the Year” recognizing VESper’s 
contribution.
Helping patients prioritize healthcare:  Following 
a survey conducted by The Harris Poll on behalf of 
Johnson & Johnson, 3 in which it was found that 68% 
of Americans said they or someone in their household 
delayed or canceled healthcare services due to 
COVID-19, JJMDC  introduced My Health Can’t Wait , a public information and resource hub, aimed to inspire 
people to prioritize their health and reach out to their 
healthcare professionals about deferred care. My 
Health Can’t Wait offers resources for patients and for 
healthcare professionals, including personal stories of 
patients facing different health challenges during the 
pandemic. 
Meeting demand for consumer health products: As the 
COVID-19 pandemic swept across the globe, Consumer 
Health responded to support nurses, hospitals and local 
community organizations; convert manufacturing lines 
to produce hand sanitizer; and increase production of 
high-demand products to meet the needs of consumers 
everywhere. 
Adding hand sanitizer availability:  Given the spike 
in demand for hand sanitizer with the outbreak of 
COVID-19, our China Consumer Health team rapidly led 
the development and launch of BAND-AID® Isopropyl 
Alcohol (BIPA) hand sanitizer for Chinese consumers, 
increasing local production capacity by a third while 
increasing the alcohol concentration from 60% to 70% 
for increased efficacy. Completing regulatory licensing 
approval and new bottle designs, the team launched in  
a record two months, with a target annual volume of  
two million units. The manufacturing technology for  
BIPA has now been introduced at our facilities in 
Thailand to enable further access in Southeast Asia. 
Similarly, our LISTERINE manufacturing facility in 
the United States switched several lines from making 
mouthwash to producing hand sanitizer for distribution 
to our employees and health and community service 
workers on the front lines of care. To date, we have 
donated hundreds of thousands of bottles to frontline 
workers in communities most impacted by COVID-19.
Minimizing COVID-19 risks from tobacco use: In 2020, 
a new Access Initiative for Quitting Tobacco (AIQT) 
was launched by the World Health Organization , aimed 
at helping the world's 1.3 billion tobacco users stop 
smoking through improved access to smoking cessation 
services and medicines such as nicotine replacement 
therapy. This program became an even more urgent 
priority given the higher likelihood of smokers to have 
severe outcomes from COVID-19 than non-smokers. 
The VESper™ Ventilator Expansion Splitter
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
22To support this effort, Johnson & Johnson Consumer 
Health donated nearly 380,000 NICORETTE InvisiPatch 
nicotine patches to treat 5,400 people in Jordan, 
supporting the Jordanian Ministry of Health in its 
comprehensive AIQT smoking cessation programs.
Contributing to eye health: As part of ongoing initiatives 
to help support eye care in the wake of COVID-19, 
Johnson & Johnson Vision, part of JJMDC  and a global 
leader in eye health, made a donation of $320,000 
to Optometry Cares – The American Optometric 
Association (AOA) Foundation and the American 
Academy of Optometry Foundation. As we are an 
AOA Recovery Partner, our donation provides financial 
support to practitioners uniquely impacted by COVID-19. 
Additionally, shortly after the outbreak of COVID-19 
in Wuhan, China, the Johnson & Johnson Vision team 
responded to requests for disposable contact lenses for 
medical workers in Wuhan, due to problems wearing 
eyeglasses under newly required safety goggles. Within 
eight days, the team packed off a shipment of 1,364 
1-DAY ACUVUE TRUEYE packs along with hand cream 
and LISTERINE.
Supporting Local Communities
Alongside broader support we provided to healthcare 
professionals, nurses and caregivers, (see the section 
Supporting the Front Lines of Care ), Johnson & 
Johnson made several meaningful contributions in our 
communities, for example:
Resources for medical professionals:  We created the 
COVID-19 Resources Center to help meet the immediate 
and pressing needs of surgeons and other healthcare 
professionals. The Center is powered by dialogEDU 
and was created by our Johnson & Johnson Institute 
in collaboration with the Advances in Surgery (AIS) 
Channel. More than 30,000 healthcare professionals 
viewed the AIS resources the first day they became 
available.Helping healthcare providers with online care:  
Building on our established HealtheVoices online patient 
advocate platform, we launched HealtheVoices for 
healthcare providers in partnership with an advisory 
board of healthcare experts. Through this new platform, 
we delivered virtual sessions to guide care providers 
of all specialties in topics such as using social media 
to build a supportive community, practicing self-care, 
elevating issues of health inequities and continuing to 
reach and provide care for patients online. 
Improving tools for patient outreach in Africa:   
Johnson & Johnson supported repurposing patient 
outreach tools to help local health workers provide 
real-time support as part of an intensified COVID-19 
response. In Uganda, our mobile health (mHealth) 
platform, CONNECT FOR LIFE, originally introduced 
to help encourage adherence to ARV therapy  among 
people living with HIV, is now being used to make 
automated phone calls to individuals quarantined 
because of COVID-19. In Zimbabwe, a local youth-led 
organization, Youth Advocates Zimbabwe, leveraged its 
Youth Helpline to disseminate messaging on COVID-19 
to thousands of recipients and respond to calls regarding 
COVID-19. The Youth Helpline was developed as part of 
the DREAMS Partnership that supports young women 
with and at risk of HIV infection; Johnson & Johnson is 
an anchor partner of the DREAMS Partnership which 
is also supported by PEPFAR, the Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation, Girl Effect, Gilead Sciences, and ViiV 
Healthcare.Caring for caregivers: BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive 
Bandages and Care® partnered to deliver “CARE 
Packages” including meals, personal protective 
equipment (PPE) and critical healthcare and delivery 
services to caregivers on the front lines of the COVID-19 
pandemic. BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages 
donated $100,000 to Care® and encouraged consumers 
to send Care Packages to support frontline heroes and 
caregivers around the world for 100 days, aligning with 
the 100th anniversary of BAND-AID®  
Brand Adhesive Bandages.
Donating PPE: While not a manufacturer of PPE, 
Johnson & Johnson donated significant quantities of 
PPE, hand sanitizer and other needed support to local 
communities, including healthcare workers around the 
world. For example, in the initial period of the pandemic, 
we donated over $3.7 million (20 million yuan) in PPE 
for frontline health workers in China, one million masks, 
100,000 protective suits and 100,000 pairs of goggles.
An advertisement for the Youth Helpline featuring young women 
serving as ambassadors in their community.We are humbled and proud to 
use our legacy and resources to 
invite more people to put care 
in the world during a time when 
we need it most.
Dawn Hampton, Vice President, North 
America Consumer Experience Organization 
(CxO), Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health “
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
23
Will Song, Chairman of 
Johnson & Johnson China 
and President of Johnson & 
Johnson Medical China, helps 
prepare a globally sourced PPE 
delivery from a warehouse in 
Shanghai, China.Supporting the  
Front Lines of Care
At no other time in our history have frontline health 
workers been more prominent than during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Their importance was no 
revelation for Johnson & Johnson: we have consistently 
acknowledged, recognized and supported health 
workers since the 1800s, appreciating their contribution 
to improving access, adherence and providing multiple 
services for patients. 
The Center for Health Worker Innovation is delivering a 
global portfolio of programs in regions with the highest 
community health burdens and frontline health worker 
gaps. In March 2020, we added a further $50 million to 
this budget to support frontline health workers battling  
COVID-19 , with a focus on the safety, well-being and 
resilience of health workers while helping to improve 
the quality and availability of digital tools to further 
empower their work. The Center supported the front 
lines of healthcare in 2020 in a range of ways working 
with multiple partners across the globe.Our Center for Health Worker Innovation , 
launched in 2019, catalyzes our efforts to build 
a thriving health workforce and is underpinned 
by a $250 million, 10-year commitment  by the 
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies and  
the Johnson & Johnson Foundation to support 
one million nurses, midwives and community 
health workers reaching 100 million patients 
by 2030 , as reflected in our Health for Humanity  
2025 Goals . 
Donating resources 
Partnering to donate PPE for health workers, training, 
technology, and other immediate support for communities
Deploying digital health technologies 
Building connected health systems by making mobile technology accessible, supporting real-time 
information technology and using digital platforms to help educate health workers 
Raising awareness and support
Leveraging the power of social media to raise awareness and garner support for frontline health workersSupporting the resilience of frontline health workers 
Providing mental health and psychosocial support for health workers in overwhelming need  Working with organizations, in partnership with the World 
Health Organization and national governments, to use mobile 
technologies to encourage healthy behavior and support patient 
monitoring and real-time updates for communities and health 
workers. Organizations include: 
Through the first half of 2020, in 
collaboration with the American Nurses 
Association (ANA), we aired our “SEE YOU 
NOW COVID-19: The Nurse Response” 
podcast series, shining a light on the 
challenges and experiences of nurses 
through the pandemic.Our #BacktheFrontline  campaign on 
social media generated thousands of 
messages in support of our frontline 
healthcare professionals, raising 
awareness for specific needs and 
encouraging donations and engagement.Co-creating evidence-based resources to support health worker 
resilience, working with Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Thrive Global, and the CAA Foundation.Strengthening health systems 
Supporting coalitions that strengthen the health system 
response and protect frontline health workers  
Investing in software and program tools that scale up digital 
technologies for disease surveillance, contact tracing, case 
management and referral. These tools help community health 
workers achieve maximum safety and efficiency in their work. 
Developers include:Helping educate health workers at scale and providing updates 
in response to changing needs and health worker feedback. 
Collaborations include:
Supporting individual health workers experiencing emotional 
and mental distress through community-based outreach 
programs in several countries with organizations such as:
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
24Protecting Employees
Protecting and supporting our employees has been a top priority throughout  
the pandemic and our approach has included:
• Keeping employees informed;
• Ensuring the health and safety of our employees in the workplace;
• Supporting employees with pay continuity, benefits and well-being tools; and
• Recognizing employee contributions at work and in our communities.
We have instituted a variety of workplace enhancements for the one-third of  
our global 136,000+ employees who, as essential workers, continued to work at 
Johnson & Johnson sites and facilities every day throughout the pandemic, and 
supported others as they adapted to remote work arrangements. In line with our  
own standards and guidance from local healthcare and governmental authorities,  
we have gradually and thoughtfully been returning our people to the many places  
we work. 
Keeping Employees Informed
At the start of the crisis, we established several communication channels so that 
employees could stay informed about the COVID-19 situation in their region, receive 
guidance in relation to Johnson & Johnson’s approach, and ask any question at 
any time and receive a fast response. We also conducted employee sentiment 
surveys weekly to gather feedback on a number of topics, including engagement, 
organizational support, and awareness and availability of resources. These surveys 
help to uncover how we can best support our employees and shape our approach. Key 
channels, in addition to these surveys and regular employee communications, included:
J&J Responds intranet  
COVID-19 resources and regular newsletter  
COVID-19 questions  
Bank of responses to wide-ranging questions on any aspect of COVID-19
COVID-19 hotline  
7 days a week, 24 hours a day, in local language
AskGS 
Global Services team portal providing rapid responses to COVID-19 questions
Video messages from our CEO and leaders  
Regular updates and encouragement to our global employeesEnsuring the Health and Safety of our Employees in the Workplace
We transitioned nearly two-thirds of our workforce to remote working at the onset 
of the pandemic, providing employees where relevant with necessary equipment 
and connectivity to work effectively while informing them of the necessary health 
and safety precautions for the remote working environment. Similarly, we developed 
guidance, tools and tracking mechanisms to effectively leverage Flexible Work 
Arrangements, as for many, a “regular” working day was not possible because  
of individual remote working circumstances.  
Return to work in Waves: For the return to the workplace, we developed a 
comprehensive, phased approach, prioritizing employee health and safety.  
We categorized five return to work “Waves,” with Wave 0 representing our  
Onsite Superheroes who remained in the workplace for essential work through  
the pandemic, Waves 1 through 3 representing gradual expansion of workplaces,  
and Wave 4 representing unrestricted workplaces that we hope to achieve globally  
in 2021.
Onsite safety measures:  Across our workplaces, we put in place safety measures that 
addressed key site-specific needs in our various types of environments including:
Workplace physical distancing
Enhanced cleaning, sanitization practices and new signage at our facilities
Mandatory use of masks
Visitor restrictions
Temporary physical barriers and furniture reconfiguration
Temperature screening and symptom questionnaires in line with government 
recommendations and indirect screening for symptomatic employees
In March 2020, with an impending shortage of 
alcohol-based hand sanitizer to protect our essential 
onsite colleagues, we retrofitted manufacturing 
lines across several operations to produce hand 
sanitizer. In just four days, we created a formula, 
assessed manufacturing capabilities, and ensured 
the standards met U.S. and European safety and 
quality regulations. Our first shipment commenced 
with 140,000 bottles to our essential U.S. sites and 
employees, followed by a ramp-up in production 
to allow for worldwide internal distribution. We 
subsequently distributed this alcohol-based hand 
sanitizer to hospitals in need around the world.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
25Medical support:  Within days of identifying the first risk of COVID-19 for our 
employees in China, Johnson & Johnson established a clinical team around the world 
to support employees who had been potentially exposed to or infected with COVID-19. 
The global medical staff within Global Health Services provided tens of thousands 
of employees with medical case management and clinical support throughout the 
pandemic.
COVID-19 testing and vaccinations:  During the year, Johnson & Johnson employees 
were able to receive COVID-19 tests at any approved testing facility, and in the 
United States, employees covered by Johnson & Johnson health insurance benefited 
from a home diagnostic test for COVID-19 at no charge. We established a COVID-19 
Workforce Vaccination Taskforce to enable our workforce and their families to gain 
efficient access to COVID-19 vaccines through a coordinated, appropriate, and 
informed approach in line with governmental guidelines and priorities in each country.
Guidance for employees on information security and data privacy: In response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, our Information Security & Risk Management team launched an 
employee awareness campaign around protecting our employees' own data, and that 
of others, and also the security of Company data and systems, especially in remote 
working situations. We provided guidance on secure remote working practices, 
guidelines for social media use and how to recognize COVID-19 social engineering and 
phishing scams, highlighting ransomware attack methods and how to protect against 
them. We utilized our security technology capabilities to both identify and block 
inbound email scams and phishing threats sent under the guise of COVID-19.
Supporting Employees with Pay Continuity, Benefits  
and Well-Being ToolsDuring the pandemic, our objective was not only to protect the safety of our 
employees, but also to help them navigate the pandemic financially, practically  
and in a healthy state of mind. A selection of the benefits we provided follows:
At Johnson & Johnson, we have long championed policies that provide 
flexibility for our employees to balance personal and professional 
responsibilities, and we are continuously evaluating our offerings to meet 
the ever-changing needs of employees. When the pandemic hit, our teams 
acted quickly and strategically in order to adapt to meet the health and 
well-being needs of employees, enhancing our available resources into 
virtual programs that  are accessible  across our global network.
Peter Fasolo , Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer, 
Johnson & Johnson“Continuing salary  
and benefits
9 weeks of base salary and 
benefits for those unable to 
work remotely  
Continuity of our global 
Employee Assistance 
Program
24/7 access to counselors who 
understand pandemic-related 
stress for employees and their 
family members
Expanded access to a 
digital resilience tool
Resiliency assessments,  
mental well-being educational 
and engagement resources 
and daily tips to support mental 
well-being
Hosted health and  
well-being webinars
Live and on-demand trainings 
worldwide to support total 
health and well-being and build 
resiliency while navigating the 
pandemicA one-time Onsite 
Superhero award
Approximately $1,000 (differing 
by country) and one additional 
working week of paid time off 
for tens of thousands of essential 
on-site employees
Additional back-up 
dependent care
in the U.S. to support caregiving 
needs for children and elders 
when regular care is unavailable
Expanded global 
exercise reimbursement
Substantial reimbursement for 
health and well-being activities, 
including the purchase of  
home exercise equipment and 
subscriptions (including mental 
health apps)
Remote home office 
reimbursement
Reimbursement for home office 
equipment, including monitors, 
printers, furniture, office 
supplies, incremental internet  
or mobile service and moreCoverage of the full 
cost of in-network 
telemedicine visits
for any diagnosis, including 
COVID-19 for employees in the 
U.S. and for telemedicine advice 
for COVID-19-related symptoms 
for employees outside the U.S.
Engagement in our 
2020 global activity 
challenge
Employees took part in 70 
countries, demonstrating a 
significant increase in physical 
activity
Recharge days
Our offices and sites  
closed Company-wide for  
two days, one in May and  
one in September, to allow 
colleagues to recharge
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
26Recognizing Employee Contributions  
at Work and in our Communities
We could not be prouder of our employees’ resilience 
through the pandemic, both those who transitioned 
to remote working and those who continued in the 
workplace. We saw an outpouring of compassion 
and caring from our colleagues in every country at 
every level and a sense of solidarity as we brought our 
respective energies together to help each other and 
our communities make it through the crisis. Employees 
volunteered time and donated to relief efforts, and we 
all celebrated the inspiring dedication of those who 
maintained onsite operations. Employee volunteering:  At the outset of the pandemic, 
Johnson & Johnson introduced a new global Medical 
Personnel Leave Policy. Medically trained employees 
who were called to serve, or who volunteered, benefited 
from paid leave to serve their communities in diagnosing, 
treating and providing health support for patients with 
COVID-19. More than 100 medically trained employees 
volunteered their time to combat COVID-19, supported 
by an investment of $600,000 by Johnson & Johnson.  
Employee fundraising:  Employees across Johnson   & 
Johnson engaged in raising funds for COVID-19 
response efforts through CARINGCROWD—our 
crowdsourcing platform created and operated by 
Johnson & Johnson Global Public Health (GPH).  
Through CARINGCROWD, employees led 27 distinct 
pandemic relief projects, including providing meals to 
frontline healthcare workers, supporting hospital staff, 
fighting COVID-19-related hunger, and addressing the 
needs of underserved people, including members of 
the Latinx community and the Navajo nation. Johnson  & 
Johnson contributed 20% of the funding goal to kick 
off every employee-led COVID-19 project. In total, 
CARINGCROWD efforts garnered over $340,000 in 
pledges for COVID-19 relief in 2020. Celebrating Onsite Superheroes:  On our global 
intranet platform, we shared several personal stories 
of our Onsite Superheroes and their dedication in 
the workplace during the COVID-19 pandemic. Their 
individual stories illustrate the strength of Johnson & 
Johnson employees from around the world and their 
contributions in the most challenging of times. 
Every day, I went to the 
hospitals to communicate 
with medical workers. I was 
afraid of infecting my son, 
so I wore a mask all the 
time. Every night, we’d do  
a video call with his mom.
Wang Donghua, Senior Strategic Account 
Manager for Medical Devices, Johnson & 
Johnson China, who hand-delivered PPE 
and other supplies to healthcare facilities 
at the outset of the outbreak in Wuhan, 
China. Wang’s wife is the head nurse in the 
respiratory and critical care department of 
a hospital in Wuhan, and at the time she was 
staying in a hotel to avoid infecting her family 
with COVID-19.“
 “Every day, when I leave home I think of my family and hope I come 
back safely. It helps so much that when I arrive at work, our leaders tell 
us that we need to return home as safely as when we got there—and 
then they back up their words with actions. At this critical moment, 
they are providing hand sanitizer and masks, increasing cleaning 
procedures, holding extra safety meetings and asking us about our 
families and daily routines. We are the on-site superheroes and 
appreciate that the Company is taking such good care of us!”
Elaine Faria de Almeida, Production Operator, Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer Health, Brazil
See our video of special messages from Johnson & Johnson 
leaders to our Onsite Superheroes and their reactions from our 
sites around the globe.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
27Supply Chain Resilience
We have robust business continuity plans in place across our global supply chain 
network, prioritizing our response efforts across two key dimensions – potential 
impact to public health, followed by level of impact to critical lifesaving products. 
Ensuring Supply Chain Continuity
Throughout the pandemic we have worked closely with suppliers, distributors, 
local governments and regulators and have continued to provide critical medicines, 
products and services, while protecting the health and safety of our more than 
136,000 employees around the world.
As a Company, we have maintained robust business continuity plans across our 
global supply chain network to prepare for unforeseen events and to meet the  
needs of the patients, customers and consumers who depend on our products.  
These steps include maintaining critical inventory at major distribution centers  
away from high-risk areas around the world and working with external suppliers  
to support our preparedness plans. See our Position on Business Continuity  
Management .
A key component of assuring business continuity is our employees. We have 
instituted a variety of workplace enhancements for the one-third of our people  
who have remained on-site, while the other two-thirds have adapted to remote work 
arrangements. The next phase of our journey involves the continuation of gradually  
and thoughtfully returning more of our people to the many places we work. See 
COVID-19: Protecting Employees .
Our technology ecosystem in action:  Through our Johnson & Johnson Technology 
teams, we supported a wide range of activities within the scope of our COVID-19 
response with several technology innovations and data science-driven tools. For 
example, we created a COVID-19 Visibility Dashboard to help understand near-real-
time product availability for fact-based decisions regarding planning, distribution and 
business continuity as a result of emerging demand impacted by COVID-19. We also 
developed an End-to-End Network Scenario Impact Simulation tool to help minimize 
supply disruptions using highly automated scenario risk simulation technology. In 
Consumer Health and Medical Devices, we have been able to predict the impact 
of raw material supply fluctuations on our capacity to better sustain supply and 
meet demand surges. At Janssen, we can predict the impact of changes to external 
supplier capacity on our inventories and service levels. These and many more 
initiatives have enabled business continuity and ongoing supply for our patients, 
consumers and customers. 
Our frontline Superheroes were instrumental in distributing the initial shipments of the first doses  
of our COVID-19 vaccine.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
28Expanding vaccine manufacturing capacity:  We 
launched unprecedented efforts to develop and scale a 
COVID-19 vaccine to address the global pandemic. We 
are establishing new vaccine production capabilities 
through collaborations with external manufacturers in 
the United States and various other countries, while also 
scaling up our in-house manufacturing. Importantly, we 
expect these efforts will enable us to deliver our vaccine 
at scale worldwide. Our Supply Chain teams worked 
closely with our external manufacturing collaborators 
to help them gain the knowledge and government 
approvals required to receive, manufacture, package and 
transport our Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine. We 
will continue to invest in collaborations so we can bring 
our full resources and best scientific minds to combat 
this pandemic.  
Navigating regulatory processes:  In a rapidly changing 
regulatory environment, our Quality and Regulatory 
Affairs teams navigated multi-country regulatory 
regimes, interpreting regulations and reviewing 
manufacturing processes to facilitate EUA  strategies 
and readiness to support the delivery of critical existing 
and new products needed to fight the pandemic. 
This included regulatory approvals for our innovative 
VESper™ Ventilator Expansion Splitter , TYLENOL 
production ramp-up, hand sanitizer line conversion,  
and most notably, our COVID-19 rapid vaccine 
development program.  Preparing delivery capabilities:  To further enhance  
our global delivery capabilities while meeting  
Johnson & Johnson’s high quality and safety standards, 
we took several new measures. These included 
adding cold chain capacity by building new freezer 
storage and distribution capabilities in under four 
months; and working extensively with transportation 
partners to ensure suitable logistics capabilities, 
including temperature monitoring and track and trace 
technologies for transactions across the supply chain. 
The use of innovative technology solutions and increased 
collaboration across the supply chain assisted in 
supporting these new requirements.  
Watch the journey of our COVID-19 vaccine candidate.Partnering with our suppliers:  Through the pandemic, 
the strength of our longstanding partnerships with 
suppliers and service providers was demonstrated 
through the many initiatives led by our Procurement 
organization to meet critically urgent needs arising  
from the disruption caused by COVID-19. Such  
initiatives included: 
• using data science to identify high-risk individuals to 
shorten clinical trial recruitment times and increase 
representation of diverse populations;
• expanding our supplier financing program to protect 
small and diverse businesses during the pandemic; 
• establishing dual sourcing channels where necessary 
and reserving capacity for materials and equipment; 
• implementing efficient and robust selection and 
onboarding procedures for external manufacturing; 
• developing product and materials testing procedures 
by engaging with new testing facilities; 
• tailoring a solution to accelerate contractor hiring to 
support elevated resourcing needs;
• identifying scalable, temperature-controlled logistics 
options to meet specific new demands; and 
• partnering to develop a globally managed contact 
center for medical information to support customer 
engagement demands. 
Enabling virtual auditing and manufacturing:  In 
response to stay-at-home orders around the world, 
our Quality & Compliance organization expanded 
its “See What I See” (SWIS) Smart Glasses internal 
program. SWIS is currently used to support virtual 
auditing and clean room sterilization, allowing us to 
conduct elements of various processes and inspections 
virtually, eliminating health risks to employees for on-site 
inspections. We are expanding use of the SWIS program, 
allowing more employees to reduce physical contact 
points wherever possible. At many Johnson & Johnson 
locations, the combination of smart glasses technology 
and privileged remote access to essential data has 
enabled manufacturing to continue without interruption.Achieving end-to-end supply chain readiness on a global level 
takes the effort of thousands of people—all of whom are 
committed to putting the patient first. We are setting up a global 
supply chain network that we expect will enable us to deliver at 
a rate of more than one billion doses per year.
Paul Lefebvre, Vice President, COVID-19 Vaccine Supply Chain program, Johnson & Johnson“
The first doses of our COVID-19 vaccine leaving the warehouse.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
29Better Health 
for All
Our progress in advancing better health for all reflects our 130+ 
year legacy, the efforts of 136,000+ employees who make up the 
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, and our extensive global 
networks and partnerships. A vision for better health for all unites 
our employees and ignites our passion to improve healthcare for 
patients, consumers and their families, and for all the healthcare 
professionals and caregivers who support them. 
Our commitment to advancing better health for all includes 
multiple focus areas: 
• innovating to eradicate, prevent and cure disease; 
• engaging and partnering to improve access and affordability; 
• investing to build the capacity of health systems; 
• catalyzing efforts to support the people on the front lines of care; 
and 
• delivering medicines, medical devices and consumer health 
products to billions of people in a way that is ethical, compliant, 
efficient and respectful of human needs. 
At Johnson & Johnson, the largest, most broadly based healthcare 
company in the world, we believe better health for all is within 
reach. We work tirelessly toward this goal.  
In this section, we share our progress in 2020 in the following areas:
Innovation
Global Public Health Strategy
Access & Affordability
Strengthening Health Systems
Children participate in national de-worming campaign in Kenya, in partnership with The END Fund.  
Photo by Mo Scarpelli/The END Fund.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
30Innovation
GRI J&J20-5, J&J20-10
Innovation has been the key to delivering our wide range of 
important breakthroughs in health for humanity over our 130+ 
years as a diversified healthcare company. Our vast scope of 
R&D expertise across multiple pharmaceutical, medical devices 
and consumer health applications works synergistically to deliver 
medicines and products that save and improve lives and strengthen 
society. Our global scale and extensive collaborative partnerships 
and networks amplify the reach of our innovation. The thread 
that runs through all our innovation investments is our vision to 
positively impact human health and build a future where everyone’s 
best health is within reach.
Innovation at Johnson & Johnson is catalyzed through: 
• R&D, supporting a full scale of innovation processes;
• Dedicated innovation centers, accessing innovation  
from all sources;
• Incubation for hundreds of startups through  
Johnson & Johnson Innovation— JLABS ; 
• Strategic venture capital through Johnson & Johnson 
Innovation—JJDC, Inc. (JJDC); and
• Business development for mid- and late-stage deals  
and collaborations.
All these innovation channels work across our three business 
segments, often leveraging synergies between the different 
groups and focus areas. For more information about our innovation 
systems and how innovation is structured across Johnson & 
Johnson, see our Position on Innovation .
Celebrating our Innovators 
Across Johnson & Johnson, at any given time, there are tens of 
thousands of scientists, researchers, engineers, designers and 
clinicians who are dedicated to driving innovation for the benefit  
of our patients and consumers. We celebrate their achievements 
and contribution to healthcare.
The Johnson Medal for Research and Development, named in honor of 
General Robert Wood Johnson, Johnson & Johnson chairman from 1932 
to 1963, and author of Our Credo, is the most prestigious award given 
for R&D excellence within our Company. Since 1960, 423 scientists and 
engineers from our three business segments have received this award, 
representing a proud legacy of innovation at Johnson & Johnson. 
The winning teams of 2020 included 21 innovators who delivered four 
new technologies:
The 2020 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Drs. Emmanuelle Charpentier of the  
Max Planck Unit for the Science of Pathogens, Berlin, Germany, and Jennifer A. Doudna  
of the University of California, Berkeley and member of the Johnson & Johnson Board 
of Directors, for their revolutionary discovery of CRISPR-Cas9 gene-editing technology, 
considered one of the most significant breakthroughs in molecular biology in the past decade. 
Both were the recipients of the Dr. Paul Janssen Award for Biomedical Research in 2014.  
They join 18 scientists  who have received the Dr. Paul Janssen Award since 2004, including 
three who went on to win the Nobel Prize.
Six scientists developed the AVEENO 
ABSOLUTELY AGELESS Blackberry 
Complex , a new, proprietary technology 
to fight multiple signs of skin aging. 
Five scientists and specialists developed 
the SURGICEL Powder Absorbable 
Hemostat , an innovative product that stops 
disruptive bleeding during surgery.Four engineers developed the EMBOTRAP II 
Revascularization Device , an innovative  
stent retriever that allows physicians to 
capture and remove life-threatening blood 
clots from the brain.
Six scientists and clinicians discovered and 
developed TREMFYA (guselkumab)  to treat 
plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis that 
leverages the body’s immune system and 
harnesses scientific advances in immunology. 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
31Innovation in Practice
Across all our business segments, 2020 was another year 
filled with inventive ideas that were brought to fruition 
through our diverse innovation systems and platforms. 
Our achievements in 2020 include:
Pharmaceutical innovation: Our pharmaceutical R&D 
focuses on areas of medicine where we can make the 
most meaningful impact on unmet patient needs. These 
include: Cardiovascular & Metabolism, Immunology, 
Infectious Diseases & Vaccines, Neuroscience, 
Oncology, and Pulmonary Hypertension. We apply 
our R&D expertise in small molecules, monoclonal 
antibodies, cell and gene therapies, RNA therapeutics 
and vaccines, and study biological pathways that 
underpin more than one disease to help speed the 
development of new therapies for multiple diseases.  
We leverage data science to reimagine the discovery  
of new medicines.
In addition to innovation noted in our section on Global  
Public Health Strategy and in our United in Defeating  
COVID-19  section, we progressed across several  
fronts in 2020 to provide transformational medicines  
to patients, including:
• Pioneering treatment for inherited retinal disease: 
Inherited retinal disease X-linked retinitis pigmentosa 
(XLRP) causes progressive vision loss from childhood 
to adulthood, resulting in legal blindness typically by 
age 40. Currently, there are no approved treatments. 
Our investigational adeno-associated virus (AAV)-
RPGR gene therapy for the treatment of XLRP, jointly 
developed with MeiraGTx Holdings plc, was granted  
Fast Track Designation by the FDA  and PRIME 
(PRIority MEdicines) and Advanced Therapy Medicinal 
Product designations by the EMA . 
• Reducing treatment time for patients with 
multiple myeloma:  We received approval  from the 
FDA for DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab and 
hyaluronidase-fihj), and from the EMA for DARZALEX 
SC, for the treatment of patients newly diagnosed 
or with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. 
This subcutaneous, fixed-dose formulation reduces 
treatment time from several hours to minutes.   • Advancing cell therapy science in multiple myeloma: 
We submitted a Biologics License Application to 
the FDA for ciltacabtagene autoleucel (cilta-cel), 
an investigational chimeric antigen receptor T 
cell (CAR-T) therapy, for the treatment of adults 
with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. In 
2017, Janssen entered  into an exclusive worldwide 
agreement with Legend Biotech USA Inc. to develop 
and commercialize cilta-cel.
• Working to reduce the risk of stroke: We continued 
in the second year of our HEARTLINE Study  in 
collaboration with Apple, which aims to analyze 
whether a heart health engagement program 
and Apple Watch can enable the early detection 
of irregular heart rhythms consistent with atrial 
fibrillation, and potentially improve heart health 
outcomes, including reducing the risk of stroke  
and other cardiovascular conditions.  
• Revolutionizing adherence for schizophrenia 
patients: We filed a supplemental New Drug 
Application to the FDA for paliperidone palmitate six-
month (PP6M) for the treatment of adults diagnosed 
with schizophrenia. If approved, PP6M will be the 
first and only long-acting injectable schizophrenia 
medication with a twice-yearly dosing regimen 
(previously requiring monthly or quarterly treatments), 
revolutionizing how adults with schizophrenia can be 
treated and facilitating higher rates of adherence. See 
more in our section on Mental Healthcare .
• Breakthrough treatment for lung cancer: We sought 
FDA  and EMA  approval of amivantamab for the 
treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell 
lung cancer whose disease has progressed during 
or after chemotherapy. This marks the first-ever 
regulatory submission for the precision treatment of 
patients with this lung cancer variation.
• Predicting risk factors in E. Coli vaccine clinical trial: 
Extraintestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) is 
a leading cause of bacteremia and sepsis worldwide 
and can cause severe invasive ExPEC disease (IED). 
To combat ExPEC, we are developing a novel vaccine 
candidate to prevent IED in adults aged 60 and older. 
Using real-world electronic health record data and data science algorithms, we predicted risk factors for 
patients most likely to develop IED and incorporated 
these insights into our development plan. By working 
to reduce the total sample size required and to 
improve trial speed and efficiency, we can help bring 
this treatment option to patients faster.
• New research collaboration and licensing 
agreements: We are continuously seeking new 
partnerships to advance our pharmaceutical 
innovation, and in 2020, examples include an  
agreement with Xencor, Inc.  to focus on the discovery 
and development of antibodies for the treatment of 
patients with prostate cancer, an agreement with  
MacroGenics, Inc.  to develop a potential best-in-  
class antibody to treat autoimmune diseases, and  
an agreement with Lava Therapeutics N.V. to develop 
antibodies to gamma-delta T cells for the treatment 
of cancer. We also entered into an expanded R&D  
agreement with Monash University  to further advance 
the clinical development of inhaled oxytocin for the 
prevention of post-partum hemorrhage (PPH) in 
developing countries. PPH, a condition of excessive 
blood loss after birth, is the world’s leading cause of 
maternal mortality, resulting in an estimated 60,000 
deaths per year in resource-limited countries. In 
these countries, access to oxytocin is often limited 
as current products are only available in an injectable 
form requiring refrigerated supply and storage and 
trained personnel to administer the product safely. 
An inhaled form of oxytocin, that does not require 
refrigeration, would offer a unique solution that could 
save the lives of thousands of women.
• Expanding our capabilities in autoimmune diseases: 
Our immunology pathway strategy creates an 
opportunity to develop therapies for multiple 
potential indications across autoimmune diseases 
with substantial unmet medical need. Our acquisition 
of Momenta Pharmaceuticals,Inc., a company 
that discovers and develops novel therapies for 
immune-mediated diseases, advances our progress 
in developing medicines for rare and autoantibody-
driven diseases including maternal-fetal disorders, 
neuroimmune disorders, rheumatology, dermatology, 
and autoimmune hematology.  
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
32Medical Devices innovation: As pioneers in medical 
devices, Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices 
Companies (JJMDC) continually focuses on elevating 
the standard of care, working to expand patient access, 
improve outcomes, reduce health system costs and 
drive value. We use our extensive expertise in surgery, 
orthopaedics, interventional solutions and vision 
care to deliver innovative solutions for doctors and 
patients, often in partnership with experts and specialist 
organizations around the world. JJMDC  innovation progress in 2020 includes:
• Success in treating atrial fibrillation: This year, our 
Biosense Webster business received European CE 
mark approval for QDOT MICRO Catheter, a next-
generation high-power, short-duration ablation 
catheter that has demonstrated the ability to reduce 
total procedure time, 4 and FDA approval for the 
treatment of persistent atrial fibrillation with the 
THERMOCOOL SMARTTOUCH SF Ablation Catheter. 
These are important milestones to further treatment 
options for the millions of people who suffer from atrial 
fibrillation.
• Seeing surgery remotely:  JJMDC in the UK 
completed its first digitally assisted case using 
Rods&Cones surgical glasses as part of a 
groundbreaking pilot that ensures we can continue to 
help surgeons remotely, a benefit especially relevant 
during the COVID-19 pandemic that continues to 
impact hospital access. These glasses provide a 
“surgeon’s eye view,” allowing remote communication 
with the surgical team throughout a procedure. This 
first case was a laparoscopic liver resection carried out 
at University Hospital Southampton, assisted virtually 
by a technical expert from our Ethicon business. 
• A better way to staple: Ethicon launched ECHELON 
ENDOPATH Staple Line Reinforcement (SLR), a novel 
buttressing device designed to further strengthen 
staple lines and reduce potential complications during 
bariatric, thoracic and general surgical procedures. 
The SLR device complements our existing stapling 
technology that has been associated with a lower 
rate of air leaks and bleeding complications. The 
prevention and reduction of leaks in complex surgical 
cases is a critical success factor in these procedures. 
• Managing astigmatism: Our new CATALYS cOS 6.0 
software with advanced astigmatism management, 
developed for the CATALYS Precision Laser System 
by Johnson & Johnson Vision in collaboration with 
Cassini Technologies, received FDA  clearance. 
Limitations of the currently available diagnostic and 
surgical methods are some of the key barriers to 
surgical correction of astigmatism. CATALYS cOS 6.0 
software offers improved astigmatism management 
and improved patient experience. • New surgical instruments for obstetric fistula 
repair: There have been few innovations in surgical 
instrumentation for obstetric fistula repair in the last 
50 years. In 2020, we collaborated with Dr. Rachel 
Pope, Assistant Professor, Urology Institute, University 
Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, to develop or 
improve three surgical instruments used during fistula 
surgery. These improvements aim to provide high-
quality instrumentation to increase patient comfort, 
maximize surgeon visibility, and improve safety for 
both the patient and the surgeon. By reducing cost 
and surgery time, the goal is to develop a sustainable 
sourcing model in resource-limited settings. As we look to the future, 
Johnson & Johnson 
Medical Devices is driving 
innovation in a fast-evolving 
MedTech industry and 
technology landscape. 
Our vision for the future 
of medical devices is to 
make medical intervention 
smarter, less invasive and 
more personalized.
Ashley McEvoy , Executive Vice President, 
Worldwide Chairman, Johnson & Johnson 
Medical Devices Companies (JJMDC), 
Johnson & Johnson“In 2020, we achieved a milestone of
one million patients  globally who have 
received our ATTUNE Knee System, 
delivered by our DePuy Synthes company, 
part of JJMDC . Backed by comprehensive 
clinical and performance data , the ATTUNE 
Knee System alleviates the chronic pain and 
disability associated with osteoarthritis that 
affects millions of people worldwide. DePuy 
Synthes continues to innovate to provide 
state-of-the-art knee solutions to meet 
the full spectrum of patient needs with the 
ATTUNE Knee System.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
33Consumer Health innovation:  Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer Health advances personal health for 
consumers every day with products that are rooted in 
science and endorsed by professionals. We combine 
the power of science with meaningful human insights 
and digital-first thinking to deliver life-enhancing, first-
to-market innovation, including over-the-counter and 
naturally inspired health and wellness products; high-
performance products for healthy skin; and everyday 
products that deliver effective outcomes for healthier 
consumers at every stage of life. 
Consumer Health innovation achievements in 2020 
include:
• Better outcomes for smoking cessation:  In the UK, we 
launched NICORETTE QUICKMIST SMARTTRACK , 
the first connected OTC product in the world. This 
groundbreaking product is a mouth spray for rapid 
craving relief, connected to a smartphone app for 
tracking usage and progress against goals, as well as 
receiving tips and support on how to stop smoking. 
Developed in partnership with our behavioral science 
experts, QUICKMIST is clinically proven to improve 
“quit” outcomes significantly when compared to 
willpower alone.  
• Healthier scalps: We launched the NEUTROGENA  
Healthy Scalp collection , bringing the science of 
skincare to scalp and haircare. Healthy Scalp is 
clinically proven to cleanse and moisturize the scalp 
without stripping strands, starting with a healthy, 
gentle daily approach to overall scalp and hair health, 
while traditional haircare focuses on the strand, and 
therapeutic scalp solutions tailored to addressing 
specific scalp concerns. 
• Faster and more convenient pain relief: We rolled 
out TYLENOL Dissolve Packs for adults, building on 
the success of last year’s similar product designed for 
children. This offers fast effective relief in a convenient 
powder form that dissolves without water on the 
tongue in seconds.Accelerating external innovation: A significant benefit 
of our broad and diversified capabilities across our 
three pharmaceutical, medical devices and consumer 
health segments is our ability to leverage the specialist 
capabilities of each to deliver innovations that span a 
range of health outcomes. Through Johnson & Johnson 
Innovation, for instance, startups, entrepreneurs and 
academic researchers, among others, can discuss early-
stage deals and collaborations, company incubation 
and other startup services, venture capital funding—or 
combinations of these and further support measures—
with Johnson & Johnson. In 2020, Johnson & Johnson 
Innovation launched 12 QuickFire Challenges  inviting 
innovators to receive funding and support for new 
technologies and therapies relating to mental health, 
oncology, tuberculosis, pediatric surgery, respiratory 
infections, digital surgery, digital beauty and much more. 
A total of $1.7 million  in grant funding was awarded to  
31 innovators . Read more about these and other 
initiatives including our JLABS  incubation and startup 
services in the JLABS 2020 Review .Supporting breakthrough healthcare innovation:   
In 2020, we were thrilled to see impressive innovators 
in healthcare receive recognition and awards worth 
$50,000 each for their breakthrough innovations to 
improve human health and help people age well and live 
longer, healthier lives. The awards were granted in the 
first round of the National Academy of Medicine’s (NAM) 
Healthy Longevity Catalyst Awards in the United States. 
These awards are sponsored by Johnson & Johnson 
Innovation and are part of a larger NAM initiative called 
the Healthy Longevity Global Competition , which is 
aimed at spurring innovation that has the potential 
to transform the field of healthy longevity. Globally, 
approximately 450 awards of $50,000 each will be 
made available by NAM and its sponsoring partners 
over the duration of the multiphase competition. In the 
final phase, by 2025, one or more Grand Prize winner(s) 
will each be awarded up to $5 million to help make their 
game-changing innovations a reality.At a time when health-conscious and empowered consumers 
are seeking solutions trusted for their efficacy and social 
responsibility, we can support them with iconic personal health 
brands that drive better outcomes. We are designing products 
that reflect the diversity of the consumers we serve, while 
keeping the health of people and our planet front and center  
to make an enduring impact on personal health. 
Thibaut Mongon , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman,  
Consumer Health, Johnson & Johnson“
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
34Global Public Health Strategy
GRI J&J20-2
Johnson & Johnson has a longstanding commitment to addressing unmet needs 
of underserved populations. As the largest healthcare company in the world, we 
have an opportunity, and a duty, to impact the health of people everywhere, and 
this is especially relevant today as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to lay bare 
and exacerbate the disparities in healthcare systems worldwide. Our industry-first, 
fully dedicated Global Public Health (GPH) organization combines world-class 
research and development, global strategy and external affairs capabilities with local 
implementation and impact teams to tackle the biggest health challenges facing the 
underserved, measuring our success in lives improved. 
Over the past five years since the launch of GPH , we have realized significant progress 
in key areas including HIV, TB, Ebola, and more recently, COVID-19, among many 
others. Our ambitions for the future are captured in our Health for Humanity 2025  
Goals  that are embedded in the new, ambitious public health strategy that sets our 
direction for the next decade. Our legacy and progress give us confidence to take on 
the world’s toughest healthcare challenges and substantially increase our public health 
impact for billions of people in underserved communities around the world. 
We will achieve our expanded impact by:
• Focusing on innovation to deliver transformational outcomes for patients across the 
full spectrum of our GPH portfolio, using next-gen science to combine (i) R&D with 
(ii) real-world evidence with potential for public health impact in resource-limited 
settings;
• Tackling emerging pathogens by establishing the capabilities needed to identity 
and develop counter measures for potential threats by building on our existing work 
against dengue and recent efforts on COVID-19;
• Significantly scaling up our organizational capabilities to lead, manage, deliver and 
partner on a broad range of GPH initiatives, using integrated technology, patient 
insights, unique collaborations and a core internal team of specialists;  • Reaching more underserved populations through even closer collaboration across 
all the Johnson & Johnson companies to leverage the full scale and synergies of 
our resources, including deeper engagement with our Global Community Impact 
organization and its commitment to support frontline health workers; and
• Expanding our scope to include a focus on global surgery, in close collaboration 
with JJMDC . This includes obstetric fistula, a preventable and treatable birth 
injury caused by prolonged labor, which occurs most frequently in areas where it 
is difficult to access professional medical care. For many years , we have pioneered 
programs with organizations like the United Nations Population Fund and the Fistula 
Foundation. Such programs reduce the suffering and stigma of obstetric fistula 
through community outreach, surgeon and surgical team training, product donations, 
and post-surgical rehabilitation. We are continuing to support women who suffer 
from this devastating injury through our new Health for Humanity 2025 Goal: 
The mission of our dedicated Global Public Health  organization is to make 
relevant innovations that save lives, cure patients and prevent disease 
available, affordable and accessible  for the world’s most vulnerable and 
underserved populations.2025 Goals
Reduce Burden of Obstetric Fistula 
By 2025, reach 10,000 women living with obstetric fistula by 
strengthening the capacity of health workers and supporting 
delivery of surgical repair.
 
 
 
For full details of this Goal and KPI, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
In this section, we share our progress in 2020 in the following areas:
HIV
Tuberculosis
Global Health Security
Neglected Tropical Diseases
Mental Healthcare
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
35HIV
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
HIV continues to be a priority global health concern, 
affecting millions of people and their families each year. 
At Johnson & Johnson we aspire to make HIV history, 
including through the public goals we set relating to 
HIV. See our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress 
Scorecard  for progress we made on HIV in the last five 
years. 
Our Health for Humanity 2025 Goal relating to HIV is 
no less ambitious and focuses on providing expanded 
access to our most innovative treatments.
2025 Goals
Access to HIV 
Treatment 
By 2025, develop and enable 
HIV long-acting injectable (LAI) 
access solutions to provide care 
for people living with HIV in two 
countries in Resource-Limited 
Settings (RLS). 
 
 
For full details of this Goal and KPI,  
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
Global HIV Prevalence 5
1.7 million
people newly infected with HIV in 2019
25.4 million
people accessed antiretroviral therapy in 
2019, up from 6.4 million in 200938 million
people living with HIV in 2019
Treating HIV in Resource-Limited Settings
In collaboration with ViiV Healthcare, our focus is to bring a new, long-acting injectable treatment regimen 
to high-burden countries where new treatment options are needed. Initially, we are planning regulatory 
filings in two countries to demonstrate a path for access and availability in resource-limited countries,  
where Janssen will be the lead company.
The new regimen’s availability in resource-limited countries would be significant. Because of advances in 
modern medicine, HIV should no longer be considered a death sentence; however, people with HIV must 
currently maintain strict, lifelong treatment regimens. Reducing the frequency of medication from daily to  
six times a year may make adherence easier on a long-term basis. Also, daily pill regimens may create stigma 
for those living with HIV, creating a barrier to seeking and adhering to treatment due to fear of disclosure. 
Long-acting injectable regimens could provide solutions to these challenges.
The youth-led, peer-to-peer HIV prevention program DREAMS 
Thina Abantu Abasha reached over 1.1 million adolescent girls and 
young women in South Africa in 2020.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
36Our HIV treatment and vaccine progress in 2020 includes: 
Phase 3 success in HIV treatment regimen:  We confirmed 48-  and 96- week results of 
our global Phase 3 trials demonstrating the safety and efficacy of long-acting injectable 
HIV treatment with our rilpivirine long-acting (LA) and ViiV Healthcare’s cabotegravir 
LA, offering people living with HIV a new approach for maintaining viral suppression. 
This novel regimen was co-developed as part of a collaboration with ViiV Healthcare. 
Approvals for use of HIV treatment regimen: The first long-acting, two-drug 
injectable regimen, co-developed in collaboration with ViiV Healthcare, has been 
approved for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults by health authorities around the 
world. This breakthrough two-drug injectable regimen, combining Janssen’s rilpivirine 
LA with ViiV Healthcare’s cabotegravir LA, 6 enables reduction of daily treatment to just 
12 treatment days a year (administered once-monthly), or in some countries, only six 
treatment days per year (administered once-every-two-months)—see table below. The 
long-acting injectable regimen was preferred by a majority of clinical trial patients who 
tried the treatment over their previous daily, oral, three-drug regimen and represents a 
milestone in enabling a better quality of life for adults living with HIV. Progress in Imbokodo and Mosaico vaccine programs: We won’t stop until we make 
HIV history. Since 2005, we have progressed the development of our preventive HIV 
vaccine; we are currently the only company with an HIV vaccine in late-stage clinical 
development, including two large-scale efficacy studies ( Mosaico  and Imbokodo ) 
underway. The investigational HIV vaccine regimen is based on ADVAC viral vector 
technology, which we have successfully reapplied in our development of a COVID-19  
vaccine  and an Ebola vaccine .
Our two investigational preventive vaccine efficacy studies are progressing in 13 
countries with enrollment of 6,000+ participants, despite the challenges presented 
by COVID-19. As the COVID-19 pandemic spread, the teams overseeing and staffing 
the Imbokodo study sites in five different African countries quickly secured additional 
supplies of PPE for trial staff and implemented a variety of controls to ensure the safety 
of study participants. Despite these challenges, all participants have since completed 
vaccination. Additionally, the Mosaico trial has now opened enrollment in all trial 
countries. 
Our GPH  team is also collaborating with organizations like the U.S. President’s 
Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief, the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation,  
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and others in those countries 
hardest hit by HIV.Janssen begins
R&D on preventive 
HIV vaccine2005
Imbokodo 
completes 
vaccinations2020 2019
Mosaico begins
in Americas 
and Europe
Imbokodo begins 
in sub-Saharan 
AfricaFirst clinical trial 
for mosaic-based 
vaccine regimen2014 2017HIV treatment regimen approvals
2020 2021
March:  Once-monthly regimen 
approved  by Health Canada
December:  Once-monthly and once-
every-two-months regimens approved 
by the European CommissionJanuary:  Once-monthly regimen 
approved  by the FDA
February:  Once-monthly and once-
every-two-months regimens approved 
by the Australian Therapeutic Goods 
Administration
March:  Once-every-two-months 
regimen approved  by Health Canada  
Regulatory review is ongoing in several other countries around the world.At Janssen, we are incredibly proud of this progress in achieving our goal 
to address some of the biggest health threats of our time. We will continue 
building on our 25-year commitment to make HIV history and to change the 
course of the epidemic through our passionate pursuit of innovation, from 
long-term remission to effective prevention of HIV.
Paul Stoffels , M.D., Vice Chairman of the Executive Committee,  
Chief Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson“
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
37HIV prevention for women: The first long-acting HIV prevention method specifically 
designed for women, the monthly dapivirine ring, developed by the International 
Partnership for Microbicides using exclusive rights to our ARV  compound, received 
a positive opinion from EMA  as part of its EU-M4all program. In addition, the WHO  
prequalified the ring and recommended the product in its updated HIV guidelines, 
which many countries use to inform their own policies. The dapivirine ring offers 
women an alternative to existing methods, which can present challenges for some 
women, such as side effects, adherence to daily dosing regimens or a need for partner 
cooperation. The flexible, silicone ring is discreet, easy to use, has minimal side effects 
and only needs to be replaced monthly. 
HIV prevention for adolescent girls and young women (AGYW): In sub-Saharan 
Africa, our collaboration with DREAMS  (Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-
free, Mentored and Safe) Thina Abantu Abasha ( DTAA ), a youth-led, peer-to-peer 
HIV prevention program, continues to empower AGYW aged 14 – 24 with leadership, 
employability, sexual and reproductive health and rights information and skills in six 
high-incidence districts in two provinces in South Africa. The program reached 1.4 
million young women in 2018 and 2019. In 2020, results of an independent qualitative 
evaluation of DTAA were published, with encouraging outcomes. Of those evaluated, 
64% of sexually active young women aged 19 – 24 reported starting to use condoms, 
88% reported starting to use contraception, and 100% reported they were tested for 
HIV 7 as a result of program participation. In light of challenges due to COVID-19, more 
extensive use was made of social media and communication tools to ensure continued 
reach to over 1.1 million AGYW in 2020.  HIV treatment for children in sub-Saharan Africa: Our founding role in the  
New Horizons Collaborative  (NHC) aims to provide children with HIV therapies  
in 11 countries across the region, through drug donation—including our PREZISTA 
(darunavir) and INTELENCE (etravirine)—and capacity building. Preliminary analysis 
from a real-world evidence study conducted by EGPAF found that among the children 
and adolescents enrolled in NHC receiving our medicines, 78% achieved virologic 
suppression at 12 months. 8 In 2020, despite the COVID-19 pandemic, NHC onboarded 
one new country, the Republic of the Congo, and continued to enroll new patients. 
We are now collaborating with NHC partners to increase the program impact through 
greater technical assistance and other measures. We have also participated in the 
High Level Dialogues on Pediatric HIV organized by The Vatican, which resulted in the 
2020 Rome 5 Action Plan and a set of specific commitments from Johnson & Johnson 
focused on young people living with HIV.
HIV diagnosis and treatment for men: As a founding member, in 2018, of the MenStar  
Coalition , aiming to expand the diagnosis and treatment of HIV infections in men, 
particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, we have worked with our five collaborators to guide 
the development of the MenStar strategy and programs. In 2020, we played a key role 
in launching MINA , a campaign in South Africa that speaks directly to men on health 
and well-being, including HIV care and treatment. The MINA campaign includes real-
life stories from men living with HIV, and resources such as a roadmap to health that 
depicts the healthcare journey in a clear, concise and motivating manner.
Piloting drones in Uganda: We are currently funding a multiyear pilot program  with 
the Infectious Diseases Institute in Kampala, Uganda, to explore the feasibility of using 
medical drones to deliver critical treatments where they are needed most, for example, 
in Uganda’s Kalangala District, which comprises 84 islands in Lake Victoria and has the 
highest HIV prevalence in the nation. The goals of the program are to bring lifesaving 
solutions to patients directly and efficiently, protect healthcare workers and allow them 
more time with patients within their health centers. Today, health workers must travel 
to patients by small boats, where they face inclement weather and risk drowning to 
access these areas which will now be served by drones. 
For more about our progress in HIV vaccines, treatments and collaborations, see our 
HIV webpage .
Adolescent girls and young women participating in the DREAMS Thina Abantu Abasha program,  
a youth-led, peer-to-peer HIV prevention program in South Africa.  
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
38Tuberculosis
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Tuberculosis (TB), despite being preventable and 
curable, continues to claim more than one million 
lives each year. Our aim to enable a world without TB 
has for more than 20 years guided our investment in 
developing an innovative treatment, expanding access 
and improving TB-related healthcare capacity. This 
investment includes our 10-year initiative, announced in  
2018 , to combat TB, and a further commitment of $500  
million  to advance TB and HIV innovation over four years, 
starting in 2019. 
The achievement of our TB Health for Humanity 2020 
Goals is a significant milestone. We continue to set 
ambitious targets as we progress toward eliminating 
this disease.Our progress in advancing and partnering to tackle TB 
in 2020 includes:
FDA approval of bedaquiline for children aged 5 and 
older:  The FDA has approved  SIRTURO (bedaquiline) 
as part of combination therapy for the treatment of 
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis ( MDR-TB ) in infected 
children aged 5 years and older weighing at least 15 
kg. This new 20 mg formulation allows for dispersal in 
water for those unable to swallow pills and represents 
an important step in modernizing pediatric therapies for 
some of the most vulnerable MDR-TB patients.
Supporting the uptake of recommended MDR-TB 
treatment:  Johnson & Johnson and the Stop TB 
Partnership joined forces to scale up use of bedaquiline  
in an effort to accelerate global implementation of the 
2019 WHO  treatment guidelines. These guidelines 
recommend the inclusion of bedaquiline in all-oral 
treatment regimens, thus enabling home-based care and 
helping protect the safety of drug-resistant TB patients, 
a critical measure during the COVID-19 pandemic. To 
facilitate this, we made bedaquiline available to the 
Stop TB Partnership’s Global Drug Facility at a reduced 
price per six-month treatment course for more than 135 
eligible countries, including an escalating percentage of 
free goods when certain volume thresholds are reached 
on an annual basis.TB is the leading 
cause of death 
among people living 
with HIV  TB Prevalence 9
10 million
people developed TB  
in 20191.4 million
people died from TB in 2019
2025 Goals
Developing 
Tuberculosis (TB) 
Treatment
By 2030, shorten and simplify TB 
treatment by developing at least 
one new TB drug and/or regimen.
Access to TB 
Treatment
By 2025, enable access to 
bedaquiline to 700,000 cumulative 
patients, potentially averting 
6,000,000 new multidrug-
resistant TB (MDR-TB) infections. 
For full details of these Goals and KPIs,  
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
As the world responds to 
COVID-19, it is critical that 
we don’t just fight the new 
pandemic but act decisively to 
mitigate the knock-on impact 
on other diseases, protecting 
lifesaving programs and 
shoring up overstretched health 
systems. This new bedaquiline 
access agreement offers an 
opportunity to save more 
lives through scaling up more 
effective treatment of a difficult-
to-treat and deadly disease.
Peter Sands , Executive Director, The Global 
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria“
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
39New collaboration to treat TB:  We were the founding members of the Project to  
Accelerate New Treatments for Tuberculosis (PAN-TB collaboration) , a consortium 
of philanthropic, nonprofit and private sector organizations aiming to accelerate the 
development of novel “pan-TB” drug regimens. The regimens will be designed to have 
little to no drug resistance and an acceptable safety profile, and be better-tolerated, 
shorter in duration and simpler to use than existing options. Together with PAN-TB 
collaboration members, we committed to leveraging our resources and scientific 
expertise to advance the development of such new treatments that will address the 
current complexities and challenges of tackling TB.
TB initiatives during COVID-19:  With the COVID-19 pandemic creating acute 
challenges for TB patients and access to treatment, we advanced several initiatives 
to maintain and enhance access to MDR-TB treatment during 2020. For example, our 
Global Public Health and JLABS  teams launched the Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis (DR-
TB) Lifeline QuickFire Challenge to generate solutions to help ensure continuity of care 
for DR-TB patients. Read more about this in the section United in Defeating COVID-19:  
Addressing Patient Needs . Patient finding:  We have supported the MTV Staying Alive Foundation to launch a 
first-of-its-kind “edutainment” campaign called MTV Nishedh  to raise awareness and 
reduce stigma around TB among young people in India, as a way to encourage those 
with TB symptoms to seek care. MTV Nishedh demonstrated the reality of living with 
TB through TV, radio and online content, reaching nearly 200 million people in India 
and directing more than 100,000 viewers to the National TB helpline. In China , we are 
also working with the National Health Commission and the Chinese Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention to improve MDR-TB case detection rates, covering 10 million 
people in poverty-stricken regions. 
Preventing TB in cities: We support the Harvard Medical School and other members 
in the ambitious Zero TB Initiative that aims to create "islands of elimination" that will 
contribute to lowering rates of TB in cities. In 2020, using its “Search-Treat-Prevent” 
strategy in 31 cities across high-burden countries, the Zero TB Initiative continued to 
lay the foundation for TB elimination, as well as care delivery for other infectious and 
non-communicable diseases.
Educating healthcare professionals:  In the Philippines, Johnson & Johnson and 
local partners, supported by the Union, a global organization working to improve 
health in low- and middle-income countries, launched the TB Academy , an online 
learning platform aimed to further the education of Filipino healthcare practitioners 
and specialists in treating MDR-TB. The TB Academy program consists of three 
certification training levels for clinical officers and nurses, clinicians and DR-TB  
experts. 
For more about our progress in tackling TB, see our TB Factsheet  and our  
TB web page .  Current tools are insufficient for accelerating 
and sustaining global progress against TB. 
Innovative partnerships, such as the PAN-TB 
collaboration, are urgently needed to develop 
new drugs and treatment regimens that can 
address TB and advance progress towards 
achieving global elimination TB goals. 
Trevor Mundel, President, Global Health, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation“
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
40Global Health Security
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
In 2020, global health security was dominated by the 
COVID-19 pandemic, which highlighted rapidly and 
painfully how small the world really is when it comes to 
the spread of disease. See our COVID-19 section  for our 
enterprise-wide response. The incidence and scale of 
disease outbreaks with epidemic potential appear to be 
worsening in the 21st century due largely to urbanization, 
deforestation, globalization and greater human/animal 
interaction. 10
Outsmarting pandemics is a complex challenge, 
requiring fundamentally robust healthcare systems 
around the world and collaborative, coordinated 
preparedness across multiple disease areas that have 
pandemic potential. Johnson & Johnson is actively 
engaged in responding to and preventing a broad range 
of pandemic threats; our experience in these areas has 
been built over more than a century. 
We maintain a wide range of collaborations to advance 
global health security and pandemic preparedness.  
One such collaboration  is with the Biomedical Advanced 
Research and Development Authority (BARDA), part of 
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, to 
accelerate the research and development of solutions  
for a range of diseases with pandemic potential.
Our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals  include a key focus 
on combating pandemics and epidemics.
See sections HIV  and TB , and our United in Defeating  
COVID-19  section for further information. In addition  
to our work in these areas, we continue to advance  
ways to protect global health from diseases such as 
Ebola, Zika, influenza and others. 
In 2020, we made advancements in the prevention of 
Ebola:
Approval of Janssen’s Ebola 11 vaccine regimen:  In 
2020, the European Commission granted marketing 
authorization for our vaccine regimen  for the prevention 
of disease caused by Ebola virus. The vaccine regimen 
leverages Janssen’s ADVAC technology (that is also 
being used to develop vaccines against COVID-19, RSV, HIV and Zika) and Bavarian Nordic’s MVA-
BN technology. This approval marks the first major 
regulatory approval of a vaccine developed by Janssen 
and enables us to collaborate with the WHO on vaccine 
pre-qualification to help accelerate broader access to 
those most in need, including registration of our Ebola 
vaccine regimen in African countries. This regimen is for 
active immunization for prevention of disease caused by 
Ebola virus in individuals one year of age or older.
Continued use of our Ebola vaccine regimen:  In 2020, 
our Ebola vaccine regimen continued to be used in 
response to the second-worst outbreak on record, in the 
North Kivu province of the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo (DRC), which was declared over in June 2020. 
Our vaccine continues to be used as part of the Rwanda 
Ministry of Health’s UMURINZI vaccination campaign, 
which was launched in December 2019 in response to 
the North Kivu outbreak, and is aimed at protecting 
people living along Rwanda’s border with the DRC from 
the threat of Ebola. To date, nearly 200,000 individuals 
have received at least the first dose of our Ebola vaccine 
regimen, many of whom live in Ebola-prone areas in 
Africa. 
2025 Goals
Preventive Viral Vaccine 
Capabilities
By 2025, demonstrate the capabilities to be 
ready to respond to a pandemic or epidemic 
threat within 12 – 18 months of an outbreak 
by generating data to support an emergency 
use submission to a stringent regulatory 
authority for a preventive viral vaccine (as 
first demonstrated through our COVID-19 
vaccine program). Global Access Plans
Contribute to addressing endemic diseases 
by establishing global access plans for all 
relevant Johnson & Johnson Global Public 
Health and Janssen Infectious Diseases & 
Vaccines R&D pipeline assets by 2025.  
 
For full details of these Goals and KPIs, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
A health worker discusses the Johnson & Johnson Ebola vaccine 
regimen with a community member as part of the Government 
of Rwanda’s UMURINZI vaccination campaign. Photo by Rwanda 
Ministry of Health.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
41Supporting Ebola vaccination awareness and 
engagement: We are supporting the Ebola vaccination 
campaign and community engagement through our work 
in the EBODAC  (Ebola Vaccine Deployment, Acceptance 
and Compliance) consortium, which is funded by the 
Innovative Medicines Initiative and also includes the 
London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, World 
Vision and Grameen Foundation. Innovative iris scanning 
technology and automated phone reminders help track 
the uptake and impact of the Janssen Ebola vaccine 
while a mobile training platform reinforces key Ebola 
messages for the community health worker population.
Our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals include a focus  
on using digital technologies to combat pandemics  
and epidemics.
New trial for Ebola vaccine in pregnant women:   
In 2020, we initiated a trial  of our two-dose Ebola 
vaccine regimen in healthy pregnant women in Rwanda 
called INGABO. Pregnant women who have contracted 
Ebola face increased mortality and morbidity, and a near  
100% rate of adverse pregnancy outcomes. 12 
For more about our work to combat Ebola, see our  
Ebola web page .Collaborating to reduce emerging and endemic 
infectious disease risk:  In 2020, we continued our 
Forest Health Futures collaboration with EcoHealth 
Alliance, a nonprofit dedicated to addressing emerging 
infectious diseases, and the Government of Liberia. Our 
focus was on advancing modeling efforts that will help 
the Liberian government better predict the potential risk 
of emerging infectious diseases, including Lassa Fever, 
from development activities, and the potential risk of 
increasing rates of endemic diseases (e.g., malaria).
Other areas of progress in 2020 include:  
Unlocking the collective power of the global 
community: In December 2020, Johnson & Johnson’s 
JLABS  and BARDA  convened a virtual three-day 
symposium of the BLUE KNIGHT™  community 
comprised of thought leaders, innovators and 
entrepreneurs to explore infectious disease, public 
health and acceleration of response. The sessions 
explored high-priority areas of interest for scientific 
and technological innovation aimed at improving our 
preparedness and response to emerging health security 
threats. Blue Knight  is a new joint initiative formed 
by JLABS and BARDA to stimulate innovation and 
incubation of technologies that improve health security.
Protection from respiratory pathogens:  In 2020, we 
named the winner of our JLABS QuickFire Challenge , 
launched in 2019, inviting innovators to submit potential 
solutions that repel and protect against airborne viruses 
while integrating seamlessly into everyday life. The 
winner, Taza Aya, specializes in non-thermal plasmas 
used to sterilize or deodorize ventilation air across a 
range of industries and applications.
Overcoming Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR):   
In 2020, Johnson & Johnson joined more than 20 leading 
pharmaceutical companies to collectively invest nearly 
$1 billion through the AMR Action Fund with the goal 
of bringing two to four new antibiotics to patients by 
the end of the next decade. This is the world’s largest 
public-private partnership now working to address AMR , 
acknowledging that immediate action is required. As 
a founding member, we committed $100 million to the 
Fund. For more information on our approach to AMR, 
see our Position on Antimicrobial Resistance .Growing drug resistance is compounding AMR as a 
public health challenge. For example, drug-resistant TB 
(DR-TB) now accounts for nearly one-third of all deaths 
from AMR, 14 with hundreds of thousands of new cases  
of DR-TB detected each year. See also the section on TB .
For more about Global Health Security and our ongoing 
work to address other diseases such as Malaria, Zika, 
Chagas disease and more, see our Factsheet  and our  
We Must Outsmart Pandemics webpage . 
For more information on how the intersection of  
human health and climate health impacts are related  
to pandemics, read our Position on Human Health and  
the Environment . 2025 Goals  
 
Vaccination 
Monitoring  
Platform
By 2025, enable global/open 
access to a vaccination  
monitoring platform for Global 
Health Security vaccination 
programs. 
For full details of this Goal and KPI,  
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
WHO has declared that 
AMR is one of the top 10 
global public health threats 
facing humanity.13
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
42Neglected Tropical Diseases
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Our work to deliver critical solutions to combat 
Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) includes both 
ensuring access to our medicine for soil-transmitted 
helminthiasis (STH), also known as intestinal worms, as 
well as advancing R&D for dengue, Chagas and leprosy. 
In collaboration with WIPO Re:Search , the Janssen 
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson 
(Janssen) share 80,000+ chemical compounds from its 
Jump-stARter molecular library with the global research 
community to help collaborators accelerate treatment 
and prevention of NTDs and other diseases common in 
the developing world. Our efforts are supportive of the 
World Health Organization NTD Roadmap and its 2030 
global targets to reduce the impact of NTDs. 
Our progress in 2020 in reducing the impact of NTDs 
includes: 
Using data science to advance innovation in combating 
NTDs: We are currently working on the development 
of an affordable Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based digital 
pathology tool that will enable country programs to 
effectively monitor and target treatment for STH . The 
prototype currently being tested automatically counts 
parasite eggs in stool that would develop into STH parasitic worms, eliminating the need for lab technicians 
to manually read slides and reducing the burden of 
reporting and surveillance for country NTD program 
managers. In 2020, we formed a collaboration with 
Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, through its Global 
Health Institute, to include schistosomiasis, an NTD 
caused by parasitic flatworms, in the AI platform.  
Continuing to combat intestinal worms: Our VERMOX 
(mebendazole) donation program achieved its Health 
for Humanity 2020 Goal of one billion doses donated 
from 2016 – 2020. In 2020, our donations included 50 
million doses of VERMOX to the WHO  to treat expanded 
populations such as adults and women of reproductive 
age. This donation enabled The END Fund to unlock 
additional philanthropic funding through its Deworming 
Innovation Fund to support treatment delivery and 
broader efforts to build health systems capacity in 
Ethiopia, Rwanda and Kenya. 
Milestone in preventing dengue fever:  Our first-in-class 
antiviral for the prevention of dengue, both for travelers 
and vulnerable populations living in dengue-endemic 
areas, was granted fast-track designation by the FDA  
in 2020. This is strong recognition of our efforts over 
the past seven years to combat dengue, for which there 
is currently no effective pharmaceutical prevention or treatment option. Our antiviral treatment is now  
in Phase 2a clinical development. Also, during 2020,  
we signed a Memorandum of Understanding  agreeing 
to collaborate with King Abdullah University of Science 
and Technology to explore opportunities for research 
and innovation in NTDs with a specific focus on dengue 
fever.   
Combating leprosy:  More than 200,000 new cases  
of this ancient disease were reported in 2019, 16 and  
we continue to investigate how to simplify and shorten 
the current multi-drug therapy regimen, address the 
challenge of drug resistance and decrease transmission. 
A Phase 2/3 trial  is being planned to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of bedaquiline in participants with 
leprosy.
For more about our progress in tackling NTDs, see our 
web page on NTDs .Since the VERMOX 
(mebendazole) donation 
program’s inception in 
2006, approximately  
1.8 billion doses  have  
been donated, treating  
up to 100 million children  
annually. Johnson & Johnson’s donation 
will improve the lives of millions 
and fast-track progress towards 
the elimination of disease caused 
by parasites that have held back 
human progress for millennia.
Ellen Agler , CEO, The END Fund“
More than 1.7 billion people  are affected by 
NTDs, comprising about 20  communicable 
diseases that cause debilitating conditions 
and morbidity. 15
NTDs disproportionately impact the most 
vulnerable individuals in low-resource 
countries , often due to inadequate sanitation 
and living in areas infested with vectors that 
transmit these diseases.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
43Mental Healthcare
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Mental health impacts the physical, social, and economic 
health of individuals and societies worldwide. Many 
people suffering from mental illness live in low- and 
middle-income countries (LMICs), where access to 
quality mental healthcare is limited. In fact, more than 
75% of people with mental health disorders in LMICs  
receive no care at all. 17 With more than 60 years of 
supporting those affected by mental illness, Johnson & 
Johnson is committed to expanding access to mental 
healthcare to positively impact people’s lives. 
Building on strong progress made to date, our new 
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals  include a specific 
ambition to improve mental health in Rwanda.
Since 2018, we have been building on our collaboration 
with the Rwanda Ministry of Health to establish a 
proof-of-concept for an affordable model of mental 
healthcare that can be scaled to other sub-Saharan 
African countries. A core element in this approach is 
to enable access to essential and innovative medicines 
for schizophrenia. As part of this continuing program, following a feasibility study with one-month and 
three-month injectables, we are conducting the first-
ever mental health clinical study on the benefits of 
our long-acting injectable antipsychotic (paliperidone 
palmitate) for the treatment of schizophrenia in Rwandan 
healthcare settings. The study, to be completed by 2024, 
will help build an evidence base for policy-making and 
healthcare decisions to provide innovative solutions for 
mental health.
Our work in Rwanda builds on our progress to date 
in significantly advancing the standard of care for 
schizophrenia patients, including:
• Registration and supply of oral RISPERDAL for the 
treatment of schizophrenia, and
• Registration of paliperidone palmitate three-month  
as the first long-acting injectable in Rwanda. 
Focus on community-based mental healthcare:  
In 2020, we continued to support Partners In Health 
as they scaled up their comprehensive model of 
community-based mental healthcare to all targeted 
health centers and district hospitals in two districts  
of Rwanda, Kirehe and Kayonza. During the COVID-19 
pandemic, the project continued to provide routine 
mental healthcare and social support to patients 
at district hospitals and community health centers 
via online platforms, including developing COVID-
19-specific mental health training and psychosocial materials for healthcare professionals and community 
health workers when in-person training was not possible. 
Raising awareness for mental health needs:  We 
continue to be active on many fronts to raise awareness 
for the prioritization of mental healthcare at the global 
and national levels. In 2020, in honor of World Mental 
Health Day, we collaborated with  international advocacy 
organization Global Citizen to raise awareness of the 
global burden of mental illness.  
Ending mental health stigma: We collaborated in a new  
global coalition , Science Over Stigma (SOS), composed 
of public, private and non-governmental organizations 
committed to ending the stigma related to mental 
health challenges, by bringing together advocacy, 
social and biologic sciences, and arts and culture to 
improve collective impact, deepen understanding 
of the physiologic aspects of mental illness and fuel 
fresh dialogue about stigma through storytelling and 
expressive arts. 
Partnering to develop transformative treatments: 
Through our Janssen Neuroscience group, we joined 
a new cross-sector collaboration to accelerate the 
development of urgently needed early-stage treatments 
for patients at risk of developing schizophrenia. 
The five-year Accelerating Medicines Partnership  
in Schizophrenia (AMP SCZ)  project, continues our 
longstanding commitment to develop transformational 
therapies for patients who are living with this devastating 
disease.  
Additional investments in mental health:  We invest in 
improving resilience and providing mental health and 
psychosocial support for health workers. See the section 
Strengthening Health Systems , and specifically through 
2020, our support during COVID-19 in the section 
Supporting the Front Lines of Care . Similarly, we provide 
extensive support for Johnson & Johnson employees 
around the world, both as part of our ongoing employee 
programs and in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
See sections Employee Health, Safety & Wellness and 
COVID-19: Protecting Employees .
For more information on our 2020 neuroscience 
pharmaceutical innovation, see the section Innovation  
in Practice . For more about our progress in addressing 
mental health, see our web page .2025 Goals  
 
Access to 
Schizophrenia 
Treatment  
By 2025, we will have 
demonstrated the health, 
economic, social value 
and affordability, of using 
paliperidone palmitate LAI to 
treat schizophrenia in Rwanda 
through proof-of-concept. 
For full details of this Goal and KPI,  
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
Johnson & Johnson is collaborating with the Government  
of Rwanda to help improve access to care for those suffering  
from mental illness in the country. Photo by Devex/Will Swanson. 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
44At Johnson & Johnson, the world’s largest healthcare 
company, we tirelessly strive to improve access to our 
innovative medicines, vaccines, devices and diagnostics 
in all countries, and especially for underserved and 
vulnerable populations in resource-limited settings.  
For almost one-third of the global population, medicines 
and vaccines are not an option. 18
Access and pricing:  Through active collaboration, we 
make our medicines readily accessible and affordable 
for patients and health systems in accordance with 
the specific reimbursement systems and laws of 
different countries. Using tools such as equity-based 
tiered pricing and collaborations with public health 
organizations, we strive to help achieve broad and  
timely access to our medicines in a way that is affordable 
locally. Our Global Public Health achievements over 
several years have transformed access to treatments 
for HIV, TB, NTDs and more (see the Global Public  
Health Strategy  section). As a signatory to the Business 
for Social Responsibility (BSR) Guiding Principles on  
Access to Healthcare , we collaborate broadly across 
our industry to improve access for patients around the 
world. 
Leading the global access ranking: The 2021 Access  
to Medicine Index (ATMI) was released in January 2021 
and we are proud to again rank as one of the top three  
companies  advancing access to medicines in low- 
and middle-income countries around the world. Our 
consistent, decade-long recognition of leadership in this 
independent evaluation is the result of a longstanding, 
deliberate and focused strategy aimed at solving 
some of the most difficult global health challenges 
and advancing equitable access to care for everyone, 
everywhere.
The ATMI evaluates the world’s 20 largest 
pharmaceutical companies on their efforts to expand 
access to medicines. Each new Index raises the bar for 
the industry as the global health landscape changes and 
expectations for companies evolve. Access & Affordability
GRI J&J20-1, SASB HC-BP-240a.1, SASB HC-BP-240a.2
ATMI notes : “Johnson & Johnson has a total of 95 R&D projects 
featuring a relatively large priority R&D pipeline compared to 
its peers: 51 projects. Remarkably, Johnson & Johnson has the 
second largest pipeline and more than half of its R&D projects 
target priority diseases.” Darunavir (ethanolate), 
Tablet, Film-coated 75mg
Darunavir (ethanolate), 
Tablet, Film-coated 600mg
Etravirine,  
Tablet 25mgDarunavir (ethanolate), 
Tablet, Film-coated 150mg
Etravirine,  
Tablet, Film-coated 100mg
Mebendazole,  
Tablets, Chewable 500mg
6 Johnson & Johnson products are included  
in the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products :
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
45Pricing transparency in the United States: In early 2021, 
we published our fifth annual Janssen U.S. Transparency  
Report , which highlights information related to our R&D 
investment, approach to pricing and patient support 
programs. Updates from this year’s report include:
• The average net price decline of Janssen medicines  
in 2020 was 5.7%.* 
• Janssen paid $29.4 billion in rebates, discounts  
and fees to payers and others in the health system  
in 2020.*
• Nearly 1.2 million patients were helped with access, 
affordability and treatment support through Janssen 
CarePath during COVID-19.**
• 646,000 commercially insured patients reduced their 
out-of-pocket costs through Janssen CarePath during 
COVID-19.**
Intellectual property (IP) management:  We believe 
that flexible IP management is a key element to ensuring 
sustainable access to medicines, especially in low-
income and low- to middle-income countries. We work 
with international funders, local governments and non-
governmental organizations to develop approaches that 
benefit patients in need while continuing to uphold the 
value of IP in all parts of the world. For more information, 
see our Position on Intellectual Property .
Universal Health Coverage (UHC):  We are advocates 
for global UHC and are committed to helping turn 
the promise of UHC into reality. We believe tailored 
strategies that align local needs, resources and market 
conditions must be part of the solution. For more 
information, see our Position on Universal Health  
Coverage . In 2020, we achieved our Health for  
Humanity Goal to drive policy thought leadership  
and strategic engagements to expand healthcare  
access and coverage in emerging markets. Several  
of our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals  also address  
and support progress toward UHC.  
In 2020, in support of Universal Health Coverage 
Day, celebrated each year in December to advocate 
for equitable health systems worldwide, we drove awareness about our efforts to strengthen health 
systems and promote public policy that will enable 
UHC. A key focus for Johnson & Johnson in recent 
years has been in Kenya, where we maintain a 
longstanding relationship with the Kenya Ministry of 
Health through which we continue to support multiple 
programs, including the Community Health Units for 
Universal Health Coverage platform, funded by our 
Johnson & Johnson Foundation, that formally integrates 
Community Health Volunteers into the health system.Throughout the world, we play an active role in dialogue 
forums and policy initiatives that will move us closer to 
achieving UHC. In recent years, we have participated 
in programs in Brazil, Indonesia, Singapore and certain 
African countries, including Kenya. 
Patient engagement:  Active collaboration with  
patients and caregivers helps us understand access 
needs and inform our development programs. This 
involves partnering with patients and caregivers to  
help guide our decision-making throughout the product 
lifecycle and accelerate patient-inspired innovation. 
We aim to incorporate patients’ perspectives early in 
the development of medicines and medical devices, 
include the patient’s voice in clinical trial protocols and 
collaborate with patients to develop tailored solutions 
that empower them in managing their disease.
In 2020, in Europe, we launched a website dedicated to 
inflammatory bowel disease for patients. This provides 
a one-stop shop for patients and guides visitors through 
the patient journey. With this website, we aim to lower 
the threshold for patients, relatives, caregivers and 
patient organizations to retrieve relevant, value-added 
content and services on this disease. In 2020, we completed more than 800 
engagements  and launched projects to 
expand access in two countries. We also 
exceeded our commitment to SDG  #3 to 
advance access to safe, essential and timely 
surgical care for 50 million people , actually 
reaching more than 70 million people . 
The Community Health Units for Universal Health Coverage 
platform is geared towards strengthening our community 
health systems that will empower our communities to demand 
and participate in quality health systems, and ensure universal 
access to healthcare, which is equitable, even to the most 
marginalised populations.
Dr. Maureen Kimani, Head, Division of Community Health, Ministry of Health, Kenya “
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
46  * Figure according to Janssen Internal Financial Accounting.
** Data are an approximate number of patients supported by Janssen CarePath provided by the program administrator.Similarly, in several markets, we enhanced our use 
of digital tools to reach out to patients and gain their 
perspectives, especially during 2020 when more people 
were engaging online because of COVID-19 restrictions. 
In South Korea, we launched a Patient Engagement 
Program that provides patient support capabilities 
through various channels including call center, text 
service and website. 
Patient feedback in clinical trials: Now in its fourth 
year, our Patient Voice in Clinical Trials (PVCT) program 
continues to incorporate patient perspectives into the 
design and plans of our pharmaceutical clinical trials. To 
date, more than 2,500 patients and caregivers from 32 
countries have provided feedback in the formal PVCT 
program. These patient insights have resulted in changes 
to clinical trials in response to patient feedback, for 
example: 
• Replacing biopsies with imaging;
• Measuring fatigue;
• Reversing the order of assessments;
• Providing transportation; and
• Modifying inclusion or exclusion criteria and informed 
consent forms.
Patient Engagement Research Councils (PERC): 
Janssen Scientific Affairs maintains PERCs covering 
five key disease areas. PERCs are a group of contracted 
individuals living with a condition of interest that our 
scientists can work with to quickly gather patient 
insights over time, and thereby improve how we 
research, design studies and generate information. In 
2020, we added the fifth PERC, covering pulmonary 
arterial hypertension (PAH), which met to understand 
attitudes and perceptions toward technology and its use 
in managing PAH patient health. The insights gathered 
during the PERC engagement, especially in relation 
to wearable technology, coupled with data provided through the PAH statistics group, informed the medical 
affairs study design to expand the inclusion criteria to 
allow for broader PAH patient trial participation. We also 
successfully piloted a psoriatic arthritis (PsA) Patient 
Engagement Day, uniting our employees with PsA PERC 
members in a virtual dialogue to better understand the 
patient perspective. In 2020, our PERC communities 
were especially useful in helping us understand the 
patient experience during COVID-19 and potential ways 
in which we could support healthy communities. 
Building the next generation of clinical trial design:   
In our role as the Project Lead of the EU Patient-Centric  
Clinical Trial Platforms, or EU-PEARL , a public-private 
alliance to develop a common framework for “master 
protocol” trials to accelerate the development and 
approval of drugs, we continued our collaboration 
and engagement. Master protocol trials are used 
to simultaneously test the effectiveness of multiple 
medicines on multiple diverse diseases. OCMO  is 
currently collaborating to develop a Clinical Trial 
Platform Framework that actively incorporates input 
from patient representatives for four specific diseases: 
major depressive disorder, tuberculosis, non-alcoholic 
steatohepatitis and neurofibromatosis.
Optimizing clinical trials and patient follow-up:   
Hugo is a novel digital platform that enables the capture 
and integration of patient real-world data (RWD) from 
electronic health records, empowering patients to 
become active partners in health research. During 
2020, OCMO continued assessments of the feasibility 
and value of RWD  capture via the Hugo platform and 
collaborated to publish joint findings  in Nature Digital 
Medicine , highlighting the potential of the platform to 
optimize clinical trials by facilitating long-term patient 
follow-up.  
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
47Strengthening Health 
Systems
GRI 201-1, 203-1, 203-2, J&J20-11, SASB HC-BP-240a.1
At Johnson & Johnson, we contribute to advancing 
health and well-being in the communities in which we 
live and work. Our Global Community Impact (GCI) 
organization, through funding from the nonprofit 
Johnson & Johnson Foundation and other functional 
divisions and operating companies across the three 
Johnson & Johnson business segments, drives 
programming for our community giving, social impact 
and other philanthropic initiatives around the world.  
For more information, see our Position on Strengthening  
Health Systems and Position on Community Impact .
In 2020, we made significant progress  toward our 
UN SDG Commitment across our community impact 
work. Our new Health for Humanity 2025 Goals  include 
a specific commitment to support nurses and other 
frontline health workers.Race to Health Equity: In 2020, we announced Our 
Race to Health Equity platform, backed by $100 million 
in commitments and collaborations over the next five 
years to invest in and promote health equity solutions 
for Black people and other communities of color in the 
United States. Society has been significantly impacted 
by systemic racism, the COVID-19 pandemic and the 
economic decline throughout 2020, which have all 
spotlighted healthcare inequities. 
Our commitment prioritizes three key areas: 
• Healthier Communities  – investing in programs that 
help provide equitable healthcare for underserved 
communities; 
• Enduring Alliances  – forging partnerships and 
alliances that combat racial and social health 
determinants; and 
• Diverse & Inclusive Corporate Culture  – ensuring  
a diverse and inclusive workforce .
For more information, see Our Race to Health Equity  
web page .In 2020, we engaged to create more equitable health 
systems through several collaborations. We partnered 
with Penn Medicine’s Center for Community Health 
Workers to scale up community health worker 
programs in communities of color; and with National 
Medical Fellowships to introduce new scholarships and 
mentoring for students entering the medical, scientific 
and health fields. We invested in diverse entrepreneurs 
whose solutions address healthcare through Johnson &  
Johnson Impact Ventures (JJIV) , an impact investment 
initiative founded in 2019 within the Johnson & 
Johnson Foundation. JJIV invests in mission-driven 
social enterprises that offer solutions for low-income 
populations. In particular, we believe that impact should 
be built into the business model and we typically engage 
once the business model has some early traction and has 
proven market viability.
We also leveraged our innovation platforms to support 
health equity. For example, in the face of increasing 
maternal mortality rates, JLABS  launched the Maternal  
Health QuickFire Challenge , with a goal to spark new 
technologies that will improve pregnancy, birth, and 
postpartum care outcomes for women, making birth 
safer in the United States. 2025 Goals
Support Frontline 
Health Workers
By 2030, in its efforts to 
strengthen health systems 
globally, the Johnson & 
Johnson Center for Health 
Worker Innovation will support 
and champion at least one 
million nurses, midwives and 
community health workers 
with skills, tools and growth 
opportunities.
For full details of this Goal and KPI,  
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
There is an urgent need to take on the inequities rooted in systemic racism 
that threaten health in communities of color across the United States. 
That’s why Johnson & Johnson is focusing its efforts and committing $100 
million to address racial and social injustice  as the critical public health 
issue that it is. As the largest and most broadly based healthcare company 
in the world, we are uniquely positioned to convene private, public and 
community organizations in pursuit of this shared aspiration and work 
together to make a meaningful impact through science, business, public 
health, and philanthropy.
Alex Gorsky , Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Johnson & Johnson“
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
48Four challenge winners are advancing technology, 
surgical instrumentation or training methodologies that 
improve mothers’ health literacy, access to services, or 
clinical outcomes. 
Several Consumer Health brand initiatives supported 
Our Race to Health Equity in 2020 around the world. 
LISTERINE and JOHNSON'S Baby joined the UN  
Foundation’s “Unite for Health”  program, bringing 
partners together to demand greater cooperation 
and equity in health. In Brazil, STAYFREE partnered 
with NGO Plan International to engage consumers in 
choosing a social project in areas that can help other 
girls to progress in life: education, entrepreneurship and 
women’s health. In France, our teams partnered with 
Secours Populaire Français to donate VANIA napkins 
and NETT tampons to women unable to access sanitary 
products.  
Additional progress in strengthening health systems in 
2020 includes: 
Investing in frontline health workers:  Our daily lives and 
global economies are intricately tied to the strength of 
our health systems, and in turn resilient health systems 
depend on a trained, supported and empowered 
frontline health workforce. In 2020, continuing our 
long track record in this area, Johnson & Johnson 
announced a $250 million commitment to support 
frontline health workers to help close the global health 
worker gap and make health for all a reality. To that end, 
our Center for Health Worker Innovation is working 
with partners around the globe to develop a portfolio of 
programs in regions with the highest community health 
burdens and health worker gaps, aiming to support one 
million frontline health workers (nurses, midwives and 
community health workers) and reach 100 million people 
by 2030.  Meeting the needs of nurses: We collaborated with the 
American Organization for Nursing Leadership on a new 
learning program for nurses on LinkedIn and conducted a 
study with Montana State University, examining COVID-
19’s effect on the U.S. nursing workforce to help identify 
new needs. In addition, we supported a new study led 
by WHO  and other organizations that documents the 
potential impact of midwives in preventing and reducing 
maternal and newborn mortality and stillbirths.
A call to action to support frontline health workers:   
We call on all stakeholders to advance policies and 
programs that support frontline health workers and 
ensure the global health workforce is adequately 
resourced to care for future generations. In 2020, we 
published our Frontline Health Workers Policy Position  
that advocates for policies and programs including 
fair pay, ongoing professional development, work-life 
balance, safety and security, and meaningful diversity 
in leadership. Our advocacy for frontline health workers 
focuses on five key areas:
• Training and education;  
• Leadership and management;  
• Well-being and resilience;  
• Connection and integration; and  
• Respect and recognition.
Impact investment to support health worker 
innovation:  In 2020, JJIV’s global investment portfolio  
grew to include a total of 12 exciting enterprises in the 
Americas, Europe, East Africa and Southeast Asia, 
covering a broad range of health innovation including: 
education, municipal monitoring of public health, 
diagnostics, healthcare models, financing and access to 
clean water.Supporting African American physicians:  In 2020, 
we entered into a joint initiative with the Medical 
Society Consortium on Climate & Health and the 
National Medical Association (NMA), the largest and 
oldest national organization representing the interests 
of African American physicians, to help educate and 
recruit climate advocates within NMA to protect their 
communities from the disproportionate health impacts of 
climate change. Through this partnership, we created the 
first fellowship program for physicians of color focused 
on climate and health equity. 
Healthcare professionals at a community health clinic in 
Jacksonville, Fla.
In this section, we share our progress in 2020  
in the following areas:
Our Giving & Partnerships
Disaster Preparedness & Relief
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
49Our Giving & Partnerships
GRI 413-1
At Johnson & Johnson, inspired by Our Credo , we use our scale and resources for 
good, contributing to many causes around the world to help advance health and 
improve people’s lives through targeted initiatives providing local support, engaging 
employees in our communities, supporting them in cases of emergencies and donating 
products for a range of needs. 
Our giving is funded by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation , a registered charitable 
organization that reflects the commitment of the Johnson & Johnson Family of 
Companies to advancing better health for all. Funded solely by the Johnson & Johnson 
Family of Companies, the Foundation currently operates worldwide as Johnson & 
Johnson Foundation US (founded 1953) and Johnson & Johnson Foundation Scotland 
(founded 2007). These independent entities support both global and in-country 
partnerships and initiatives, opportunities for employee engagement, and disaster 
response activities managed by the Global Community Impact  team at Johnson & 
Johnson, including the Center for Health Worker Innovation. See our Position on  
Community Impact .
Signature partnerships: We also maintain several global partnerships and platforms 
that advance healthcare and the quality of life for patients, consumers and 
communities. In 2020, we continued to engage across our range of partnerships, in 
many cases, intensifying our support to help combat the challenges of COVID-19. (See 
also our section United in Defeating COVID-19 ). These partnerships include:
• CARINGCROWD:  A crowdfunding platform for global public health.
• Save the Children: A longstanding partnership, supporting a range of programs such 
as newborn survival, support for refugees, response to humanitarian crises and joint 
advocacy.
• UNICEF:  A 30-year partnership to strengthen health systems in 20 countries and 
territories.  
• Johnson & Johnson One Young World Program: A partnership since 2013 to provide 
young leaders in healthcare with opportunities to contribute to solving health issues. 
• Global Citizen: A partnership since 2016 to address public health challenges through 
this social action platform.Product donations and financial support: In the United States, we also support 
independent initiatives by donating medicines and funding to the Johnson & Johnson 
Patient Assistance Foundation, Inc. (JJPAF), an independent, nonprofit organization 
committed to helping eligible patients without insurance coverage receive prescription 
products donated by Johnson & Johnson operating companies.
In 2020, we donated $1.9 billion in products 
and financial support to JJPAF, enabling the 
Foundation to provide medicines at no cost  
to approximately 95,000 patients.*
* See The 2020 Janssen U.S. Transparency Report.
Our Giving
2020 2019 2018
Total products and cash contributed globally (millions) $2,567‡$1,806+$1,612
Products contributed globally (millions) $2,043‡$1,383+$1,299
Cash contributed globally (millions) $524‡$423+$313
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants. 
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
50Disaster Preparedness & Relief
We work with trusted partners including Americares, Heart to Heart International, 
Mercy Ships and Direct Relief on the front lines of care to help communities by 
coordinating product donations, and through programs that help communities recover, 
rebuild and become resilient. In the immediate aftermath of any major disaster, our 
response includes providing an array of our Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and 
Consumer Health products, as well as monetary donations and support to help people 
and communities recover mentally and physically. Our approach is to stay closely 
connected with our partners and colleagues to assess what needs may arise in the  
long term and determine how we can support them. See our Position on Disaster Relief .
In 2020, much of our emergency and relief effort was focused on supporting 
communities through the COVID-19 pandemic. See our section United in Defeating  
COVID-19 . However, we also supported communities struck by disaster, including:
• Earthquakes in Puerto Rico: Southwestern Puerto Rico was struck by a series of 
over 2,000 earthquakes in late 2019 and early 2020, devastating communities and 
demolishing homes and buildings, forcing roughly 7,500 people to look for other 
kinds of shelter, including cars and tents.  
• Explosion in Lebanon:  In the aftermath of the devastating blast in Beirut in August, 
we donated $500,000 for relief efforts, and partnered extensively in the region with 
local NGOs including the Lebanese Red Cross, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), 
UNICEF, Save the Children, and the International Rescue Committee to provide 
hygiene kits and help support the affected communities. We also contributed to the 
establishment of free mental health walk-in clinics and a 24/7 hotline. 
• Hurricanes Eta and Iota in Latin America:  We partnered with colleagues and relief 
organizations such as the Red Cross in Latin America to offer cash support for local 
communities affected by damage caused by Hurricanes Eta and Iota in Nicaragua, 
Honduras, Panama and Colombia. We also shipped thousands of Johnson & Johnson 
hygiene kits to Honduras. 
• Hurricanes in North America:  In the aftermath of Hurricane Laura that hit Louisiana, 
we partnered with several organizations to distribute Johnson & Johnson’s One 
Child One Blanket kits and thousands of hygiene kits and Medical Mission Packs . 
Employees volunteered to provide storage containers, tarps, water and other 
supplies, and assisted in clean-up efforts. We continued these activities in response 
to Hurricanes Delta and Zeta that followed the path of Laura within months, causing 
further disruption and damage.
• Forest fires in North America:  Following the deadly wildfires that raged in 
California, Colorado, Oregon and Washington, we partnered with Direct Relief 
to support affected communities by distributing hygiene products and protective 
equipment.$0.57 million
allocated in support for immediate, mid- and long-term response,  
as well as readiness, to natural disasters around the world.
$1.86 million
worth of Johnson & Johnson product provided to communities  
impacted by natural disasters around the world.
Direct Relief supplies are loaded onto a plane for transport to Oregon on September 19, 2020.  
(Lara Cooper/Direct Relief)
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All     |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
51Starting in March 2020, some of our employees have adjusted to a flexible working environment.Responsible 
Business 
Practices
In this section, we share our progress in 2020 in the following areas:
Ethics & Values
Our People
Product Quality & Safety
Environmental Health
Responsible Supply BaseAt Johnson & Johnson, we aim to create an open and honest 
environment where we can achieve our best work both compliantly 
and with integrity. That’s what we mean by responsible conduct, 
and we strive to ensure it’s reflected in every decision and 
interaction of every employee throughout every day at work. 
There’s no compromising when it comes to ethical and responsible 
practices. We expect all our employees to help us sustain the 
trust earned over the course of more than 130 years of business 
operations. In doing so, we are empowered to advance Our 
Purpose of blending heart, science and ingenuity to profoundly 
change the trajectory of human health.
We apply this solid foundation of ethical and values-based conduct 
to every area of our business practices, including how we govern 
our organization; engage and inspire a diverse, skilled workforce; 
apply the highest standards of ethics in our research; assure the 
safety of our products for our patients and consumers; act as 
stewards of the environment and maintain a global supply network 
that supports our mission. 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
52Ethics & Values
GRI 102-17, 205-1, 205-2, 206, 406-1, 417, 419, J&J20-6  
Our responsibilities to patients, consumers, healthcare 
professionals, employees, communities and shareholders 
are embedded in Our Credo . Our comprehensive 
policies, procedures and trainings help our employees 
and contingent workers comply with applicable laws, 
regulations and industry codes, as well as the Company’s 
internal standards and expectations for responsible 
conduct. We use our biennial Our Credo Survey to 
assess how our values come to life across the Enterprise. 
In 2020, the survey results showed an all-time high 
across many dimensions, including 94% of respondents 
who agreed that Johnson & Johnson “acts responsibly 
to the communities in which we live and work and 
the world community as well.” For more information 
about the 2020 Our Credo Survey, see the Employee  
Engagement  section.Compliance & Bioethics
GRI J&J20-3, J&J20-8 
Our Code of Business Conduct (CBC) and Health 
Care Compliance (HCC) policies list comprehensive 
ethical standards for decisions and actions in every 
market where we operate. Mandatory CBC training is 
conducted every two years (results for the 2020 – 2021 
CBC training cycle will be published in the 2021 Health 
for Humanity Report), and HCC training is conducted 
each year.
In our policies, we comprehensively address anti-
corruption and anti-bribery, following the U.S. Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act 2010, and 
other applicable local anti-bribery and anti-corruption 
laws and regulations. See our Positions on Ethics and  
Compliance  and Anti-Corruption . Similarly, we value 
transparency as a key component of building trust with 
all those engaged with our business and aim to comply 
with multiple regulatory reporting requirements in 
different jurisdictions around the world. Beyond meeting 
our regulatory reporting requirements, we also publish  
a wide range of voluntary disclosures. See our Position   
on Transparency .
Aspects of compliance and transparency we advanced 
in 2020 include:
• Pricing transparency in the United States: In early 
2021, we published our fifth annual Janssen U.S.  
Transparency Report . See the Access & Affordability  
section for highlights.
• Third Party Intermediary (TPI) compliance: 
We continued to enhance end-to-end TPI Risk Management processes leaning on updated 
risk segmentation to drive a risk-based TPI Due 
Diligence process and background checks, red flag 
management, monitoring, and risk mitigation. All 
employees are directed to utilize these standards when 
selecting and managing TPIs and other intermediaries.  
• Supporting distributor compliance:  In collaboration 
with the Advanced Medical Technology Association 
(AdvaMed) and member industry partners, the 
AdvaMed Distributor Capability Working Group 
completed the development of a Global Compliance 
Distributor Toolkit. This publicly available Toolkit offers 
access to compliance guidance, training and other 
resources to help third-party distributors formalize 
and strengthen their compliance program to meet the 
expectations and standards for doing business in the 
medical devices and diagnostics industry. Johnson & Johnson was named in  
2020 for the third consecutive year  
to the CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate  
Political Disclosure and Accountability  
with trendsetter status, indicating model 
corporate governance best practices.  81,000  employees and 
96%  of sales and marketing 
employees completed HCC 
training in 2020. 
100%  of senior leaders 
certified* the compliance  
of their organizations with  
the CBC.
* Certifiers include senior leaders at VP2 level and above, selected 
Managing Directors and General Managers based on country or 
business segment risk profile, and executives of recently acquired 
companies.
In this section, we share our progress in 2020  
in the following areas:
Compliance & Bioethics
Corporate Governance
Information Security & Data Privacy
Human Rights
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
53We continued to adhere to strict bioethics principles and practices in 2020: 
• To address the complex ethical questions arising in the field of biological research, 
science and medicine, our Enterprise Johnson & Johnson Bioethics Committee  
(JJBC) , sponsored by OCMO , serves as an advisory body to our worldwide teams  
on bioethical issues, advocating adherence to bioethical principles, providing an 
expert forum for teams to obtain guidance on bioethical issues and championing  
our commitment to bioethical decision-making across the Enterprise. The JJBC  
is guided by the fundamental principles of bioethics, including beneficence,  
non-maleficence, autonomy and justice and our Ethical Code for the Conduct   
of Research and Development . See also our Position on Bioethics .
• As part of our COVID-19 response, OCMO  convened a working group of internal  
and external experts to develop an ethical framework to guide the allocation of 
donated supplies of PPE globally. The working group also established guidance   
on ethically balancing a drug’s current approved use and its potential usefulness in 
fighting COVID-19 in the absence of peer-reviewed data from randomized clinical 
trials. See the United in Defeating COVID-19 section.
• Since 2014, we have been working with the Yale University Open Data Access 
(YODA) Project to enable a consistent approach for assessing external research 
proposals requesting the use of clinical trial data generated by Johnson & Johnson 
companies. As of 2020, 206 research proposals have been reviewed and 41 articles 
published using data shared through the YODA Project, enabling researchers to  
build on existing findings to accelerate research that leads to improvements in  
public health.
• We continued to uphold the ethical treatment of animals used in laboratory  
settings to advance patient safety and well-being. Johnson & Johnson companies 
have policies and guidelines in place to assure the ethical and humane treatment 
of the animals and promote the use of non-animal alternatives whenever feasible. 
We support and participate in efforts to obtain regulatory acceptance of alternative 
testing methods. See our Humane Care and Use of Animals Policy .Inquiries and Complaints as Filed with Our Credo Integrity Line  
by Category*
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Human Resources-related 51%‡ 60% 58%
Financial-related 14%‡ 13% 11%
Business integrity-related 12%‡ 6% 6%
Other 11%‡ 8% 10%
General information questions 10%‡ 11% 13%
Product quality and patient safety-related 2%‡ 2% 2%
‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants.
* Changes to Our Credo Integrity Line complaint categories were made in December 2020 as a part of a broader project to 
enhance the overall user experience of and accessibility to Johnson & Johnson’s anonymous reporting mechanism. As such, 
certain inquiries and complaints received in December 2020 under newly created or updated categories are excluded. These 
exclusions comprise less than 0.49% of total inquiries and complaints made in 2020. These changes will be included in next 
year’s 2021 Health for Humanity Report.
Compliance-Related Investigations and Responsible Marketing Indicators
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Number of compliance-related allegations investigated  
through Triage Committee559‡ 738 707
Percentage of compliance-related allegations investigated through Triage Committee, by category
    Healthcare compliance 41%‡40% 46%
    Financial 51%‡50% 40%
    Other 8%‡10% 14%
Number of warning letters or untitled letters issued  
by OPDP or APLB in the U.S.* 0 0 Not 
reported
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
* OPDP: Office of Prescription Drug Promotion and APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch of the FDA Center for 
Biologics Evaluation and Research.Since 2015, we have collaborated with New York University (NYU) 
School of Medicine to support Janssen decision making for 
investigational medicine requests, also known as “compassionate 
use,” or “pre-approval access.”  The Compassionate Use Advisory  
Committee (CompAC) , comprised of ethicists, physicians and patient 
representatives independently selected by NYU, provides guidance to 
Janssen on pre-approval access plans and  individual requests received 
at Janssen. CompAC affirms Johnson & Johnson’s commitment to 
ensuring a transparent, ethical and objective approach to reviewing 
compassionate use requests. See our Position on Pre-Approval Access 
and Compassionate Use .
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
54Corporate Governance
GRI 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25, 102-26, 102-33
Our Board of Directors oversees our Company in 
alignment with Our Credo  values, enabling us to put 
the patients we serve first and create value for society 
while maintaining a thriving business. Our governance 
structure, policies and processes are designed to serve 
the needs of our business, our shareholders and other 
stakeholders, and to promote a culture of accountability 
across the Enterprise. Our Board of Directors remains 
accessible to all stakeholders and can be contacted   
via several channels.
We are a signatory to the Commonsense Corporate  
Governance Principles 2.0  and are committed to 
using these standards to inform Johnson & Johnson’s 
corporate governance practices. The Commonsense 
Principles 2.0 aspire to promote a constructive dialogue 
on good corporate governance for the benefit of millions 
of Americans who work for and invest in America’s 
public companies. 
We maintain a full suite of information and resources 
relating to corporate governance on our corporate website, including our Principles of Corporate  
Governance , governance structures, Board Charters, 
organizational documents and all SEC filings. See also 
our Position on Corporate Governance .
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters 
are regular topics on the agenda of our Board of 
Directors. The Science, Technology & Sustainability 
Committee reviews annual progress against our Health 
for Humanity strategy and goals, initiatives being 
advanced by the Enterprise Governance Council, and 
our overall sustainability efforts. Other Committees of 
the Board oversee specific ESG risks and opportunities. 
For further information, see the section on Sustainability  
Governance . Our Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework  provides a systematic process for our 
management teams and employees to identify, assess 
and manage business risks, and for our Board to oversee 
risk management. 
We aim for a diverse membership of our Board of 
Directors in order to benefit from different backgrounds, 
expertise and perspectives, and to serve the Board in 
understanding and addressing the needs of our global 
patient and consumer base. 
In 2020, we introduced initiatives to strengthen our 
corporate governance:
• Our Policy on Outside Board Memberships was 
updated to reflect Johnson & Johnson’s current 
operations and the complexities applicable to our 
businesses. The new policy clarifies the definition of 
Board memberships and the approvals required for 
senior leaders in the Company to accept external 
Board positions and under which conditions.
• In order to further align the long-term financial 
interests of Johnson & Johnson executive officers with 
those of shareholders, the Board increased the number 
of shares executive officers must own. The Company 
ownership guidelines now require our CEO to own a 
number of shares equal to 12 times his base salary and 
each of our other executive officers to own sufficient 
shares to equal six times their base salaries. ESG disclosure plays an essential role in presenting to our shareholders 
and all stakeholders how Johnson & Johnson operates as a responsible 
and accountable corporate citizen. It is important to have a strong financial 
balance sheet and to disclose it in financial statements, but we are also 
committed to demonstrating how we are living Our Purpose. The Board 
of Johnson & Johnson supports sound ESG practices, and we believe that 
continued transparency on these matters is critical to building trust with 
our stakeholders and those we serve.
Anne M. Mulcahy, Lead Director, Johnson & Johnson“Our Board of Directors in 2020  
(end-of-year)
93%  
independent
35.7%‡ 
women
21.4%‡  
ethnically/racially diverse
‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
55• At our 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the Board recommended,  
and shareholders approved, an amendment to Johnson & Johnson’s Restated  
Certificate of Incorporation to allow directors to be removed without cause.  
This initiative reflected the Board’s recognition of the emerging practice to  
permit removal of directors without cause by shareholders as a measure to  
increase the accountability of the Company’s directors to shareholders.
• In response to a shareholder proposal presented at our 2020 Annual Meeting  
of Shareholders, as well as to valuable shareholder feedback requesting updates 
regarding key corporate governance developments, the Board prepared and 
published a report on the governance measures implemented to monitor and 
manage financial and reputational risks, specifically opioids-related risks. The  
report can be viewed here .
In 2020, Dr. Nadja West, 
retired U.S. Army Lieutenant 
General and former U.S. 
Army Surgeon General, was 
appointed to our Board of 
Directors, bringing decades 
of strategic and operational 
experience in national and 
international executive 
leadership, strategic planning 
and healthcare management.Corporate Governance Indicators
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Number of Directors on the Board 14 14 11
Number of independent Directors on the Board 13 13 10
Percentage of independent Directors  
on the Board93% 93% 91%
Independent Lead Director Yes Yes Yes
Independent Audit Committee Yes Yes Yes
Independent Compensation & Benefits 
CommitteeYes Yes Yes
Independent Nominating & Corporate 
Governance CommitteeYes Yes Yes
Independent Regulatory Compliance Committee Yes Yes Yes
Independent Science, Technology & Sustainability 
CommitteeYes Yes Yes
Number of regular and special meetings held by 
the Board of Directors10 9 9
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
56Information Security & Data Privacy
GRI 418 
Johnson & Johnson is strongly committed to protecting the privacy of those  
who entrust us with their personal information. In addition to our Code of Business  
Conduct  and all the laws that apply to our operating companies’ handling of 
personal information, we also maintain global privacy policies to which all our 
businesses worldwide must adhere. Our policies reflect our commitment to fair and 
transparent information practices. Similarly, through our Information Security and Risk 
Management organization, we safeguard the Company’s networks, systems, products 
and information against evolving cyber threats to prevent unintended or unauthorized 
access to both business and personal information. 
In 2020, we increased efforts to ensure compliance with the growing number of 
new privacy and cybersecurity laws around the globe which all have security or data 
protection requirements, including the California Consumer Privacy Act, the Brazilian 
LGPD (Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados Pessoais) compliance law, as well as other  
new regulations in China, South Korea and Thailand. Generally, these regulations 
require new processes and systems to help ensure consumers and patients have 
greater knowledge of their privacy rights, and the ability to exercise such rights  
with respect to access, correction of and deletion of their data. We are updating 
websites controlled by Johnson & Johnson and establishing new or enhanced 
processes to support consumer, patient and other data subject requests to address 
these requirements. Furthermore, to enhance our cybersecurity capabilities, we 
deployed a new Medical Device Product Cybersecurity Quality Standard, increasing 
confidence that cybersecurity controls are in place to ensure the availability of 
the devices and the confidentiality and integrity of their associated data. We also 
expanded our cybersecurity controls to address the expanding and evolving global 
cybersecurity threats.
Externally, we partnered with industry groups in different regions—both to help 
ensure new privacy regulations are effective in addressing the needs of patients, 
consumers and businesses in managing the use of personal information, and to share 
cybersecurity threat intelligence and best practices. These partnerships are critical for 
research, innovation and building patient and consumer engagement, particularly in 
emerging areas of health technology.
Also, as part of our global COVID-19 response, we worked intensively across the 
Enterprise to assist in the rapid transitioning to virtual business models and remote 
working in ways that protect Company information and respect the privacy rights 
of individuals, including privacy support and guidance for on-site COVID-19 testing 
and our vaccine development. Additionally, we launched a separate cybersecurity 
program dedicated to the security of Janssen vaccine development, manufacturing 
and distribution. 
See also our Positions on Information Security  and Data Privacy .
Our Information Security & Risk Management organization is committed to helping the business 
understand and effectively manage information risk and ensure data protection.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
57Human Rights
GRI 102-41, 402-1, 406, 407, 408, 409, 412-2
Our commitment, policies and governance: Johnson   & 
Johnson is committed to respecting human rights 
of individuals throughout our value chain. We have 
established policies, programs and a governance 
structure to fulfill our human rights responsibilities. 
Ongoing due diligence approach: In 2020, Johnson & 
Johnson continued our engagement with Shift, a leading 
center of expertise on the United Nations (UN) Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, to refine and 
further define our salient human rights issues, socialize 
those issues internally and develop a framework for 
identifying and managing human rights issues in our 
supply base. We also continued our participation in 
Shift’s Business Learning Program, to ensure awareness 
of emerging human rights issues and due diligence 
approaches and be part of a cross-industry network of 
companies working to advance implementation of the 
UN Guiding Principles. Throughout 2020, we addressed, 
from a human rights standpoint, the impact of the 
COVID-19 pandemic on our employees, communities and other stakeholders. For more information on our 
COVID-19 response, please see the United in Defeating  
COVID-19  section.
Our own operations: Our Position on Employment and  
Labor Rights  articulates our expectations for labor and 
employment practices at our sites, including preventing 
forced labor and child labor, and non-discrimination, 
among other matters. Our operating companies are 
required to respect each employee’s right to make an 
informed decision, free of coercion, about membership 
in associations and/or labor unions. Employees have 
the right to organize or join associations, and bargain 
collectively, if they so choose. The Company and its 
operating companies are required to bargain in good 
faith with these associations.
In 2020, we developed a risk-based approach to 
assessing compliance with our internal standards  
related to the human rights of our employees by initiating 
a project to conduct human rights audits at our sites. 
We have partnered with a third party who will conduct 
audits in conformance with the Ethical Trading Initiative 
(ETI) Base Code, an internationally recognized set of 
labor standards based on the International Labour 
Organization (ILO) Conventions, the UN Guiding 
Principles, and local labor regulatory requirements. Our 
audit risk screening criteria are based on the Supplier 
Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Members Ethical Trade 
Audit (SMETA) best practice guidance and measurement 
criteria. We tailored risk screening criteria to include 
additional considerations relevant to Johnson & Johnson. 
The new audit program will be piloted within one of our 
three business segments in 2021.Minimum notice periods, the management of 
reorganizations and layoffs and the policies associated 
with such actions vary depending on the location, 
nature, size and scale of the action and applicable law. 
Local operating leaders endeavor to communicate 
significant plans of operational changes to employees 
and their representatives, where they are present, in a 
timely and practical manner in advance of actions being 
taken. The Company maintains responsible approaches 
to redundancies and organizational changes. Many of 
our collective bargaining agreements contain negotiated 
provisions covering severance or separation pay and 
benefits. Where there is no legal minimum notice period, 
Johnson & Johnson operating companies typically 
provide 30 days’ notice.
Our approach to talent management puts a strong 
focus on diversity and inclusion principles. We 
promote diversity and equal opportunity in recruiting, 
development and promotion as well as all other aspects 
of employee careers. To read more, please see our 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Policy . As outlined in 
our Positions on Providing a Safe and Harassment-
Free Workplace  and on Providing a Discrimination-
Free Workplace , we do not tolerate discrimination, 
harassment or bullying, and provide various training 
courses on this policy, including within our Code of 
Business Conduct scenario-based training, which is 
assigned every two years to all employees and to select 
contingent workers.
To reinforce our commitment to fair pay as defined by 
Our Credo  and the Position on Employee Compensation  
and Benefits , in 2020 we completed a living wage 
assessment ensuring pay is not only equitable and 
market competitive, but also more than sufficient 
to provide the means for our employees and their 
families to attain a sustainable standard of living. Living 
wage rates were provided by the global non-profit 
organization, Business for Social Responsibility (BSR). 
The scope of the analysis included the 77 countries 
where our 136,000 employees are located, and a very 
small number of minor pay adjustments were made.  
We have integrated the living wage assessment into our 
standard processes and plan to conduct this analysis on 
a regular basis going forward.23%
of employees worldwide are covered  
by collective bargaining agreements.See the policies and positions available on 
our website for more information:  
• Code of Business Conduct
• Position on Human Rights
• Human Trafficking Policy
• Position on Employment and Labor Rights
• Position on the Conduct of Clinical Trials
• Responsibility Standards for Suppliers
• California Transparency in Supply Chains  
Act and United Kingdom Modern Slavery  
Act Statement
• Position on Human Right to Water
• Position on Conflict Minerals  
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
58Our suppliers: The Johnson & Johnson Responsibility  
Standards for Suppliers  outline our expectations 
of supplier business conduct. The Standards were 
developed to align with the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights and the Consumer Goods 
Forum Social Resolution on Forced Labour and Priority 
Industry Principles. We continue to strengthen our 
due diligence approach to human rights issues in the 
supply base. In 2020, we further enhanced our supplier 
selection process with a deeper focus on human rights 
evaluation criteria. Through our participation in the 
Consumer Goods Forum, in September 2020 Johnson  & 
Johnson signed onto a letter to the UN, calling for 
measures to protect seafarers’ well-being and human 
rights in line with the UN Guiding Principles and in 
support of ILO’s Decent Work Agenda, while supporting 
the global economy, unblocking sea transportation 
routes and ensuring the supply of critical goods. To read 
more about our supplier due diligence approach, see our 
Position on Responsible Supply Base . 
Training and communication: Our Human Rights  
in the Supply Base training covering all aspects of 
our Johnson & Johnson Position on Human Rights is 
mandatory for all Procurement employees and is also 
assigned to other relevant functions as needed. In 
addition, in late 2020 we launched a foundational human 
rights training course available to all employees. This 
foundational course, which has been translated into 26 
languages, educates employees about our commitment 
to human rights, the impact our operations can have 
on human rights and the responsibilities we have as 
Johnson & Johnson employees. 
Grievance mechanisms: We are committed to 
providing effective resolution where we have caused 
or contributed to adverse human rights impacts. 
Where we find impacts directly linked to our business 
relationships, we will use our influence to work with 
our suppliers or business partners to prevent, mitigate 
and address adverse impacts on human rights. The 
Johnson & Johnson Our Credo Integrity Line —a 
grievance mechanism available to all employees, 
suppliers and other business partners—offers a secure 
mechanism for anonymous reporting, where permitted, 
of suspected concerns or potential violations of our policies or the law, including potential human rights 
violations. We communicate the Our Credo Integrity 
Line access broadly, and the visibility of this access and 
the mechanism’s functionality is in scope for enterprise-
wide audit procedures. Concerns raised through the Our 
Credo Integrity Line are reported at an enterprise level. 
More information on the Our Credo Integrity Line is 
available in our Compliance & Bioethics  section.
In addition to the Our Credo Integrity Line, our 
employees can report potential violations to Human 
Resources either locally or through our Global Services 
team. Alternatively, they can report potential violations 
to management. To read more, see our Position on  
Resolving Employee Grievances .Acquisitions:  We firmly believe that identifying and 
understanding environmental, safety and employee 
issues, including potential human rights concerns, are 
critical components of our acquisition and other business 
development activities. We conduct thorough due 
diligence investigations prior to acquiring businesses 
and apply a commensurately higher level of scrutiny 
to businesses with operations or suppliers in countries 
where there are traditionally higher risks of compliance 
violations and/or human rights abuses. We continue  
to be mindful of these concerns as we transition newly 
acquired businesses into the Johnson & Johnson  
Family of Companies and are prepared to escalate  
and appropriately remediate any issues uncovered.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
59Our People
GRI 102-8
The culture of Johnson & Johnson, inspired and guided 
by Our Credo for over 75 years, continues to energize 
more than 136,000 individuals around the world to 
advance a shared purpose: to blend heart, science and 
ingenuity to profoundly change the trajectory of health 
for humanity. 
Every one of us at Johnson & Johnson plays a role in 
bringing these values to life through what we say and 
do, the stakeholders we connect with and the people 
we serve. COVID-19 has tested us all; but in 2020, heart, 
science and ingenuity came together in incredible ways. 
From the delivery of our COVID-19 vaccine, to making 
it available on a not-for-profit basis for emergency 
pandemic use, to our Onsite Superheroes who kept our 
plants running so that we could continue to make needed 
products available to patients and consumers, to our 
thousands of employees who volunteered in their local 
communities, to every single individual who adjusted to remote working—Our Credo is visible in millions of 
daily actions from our thousands of colleagues. For more 
about how we protected employees through 2020, see 
the section COVID-19: Protecting Employees .
Here at one of the world’s largest corporations,  
we have a considerable impact on the lives of many, 
including the employees of the Johnson & Johnson 
Family of Companies. Our Credo values underpin 
our approach to leadership, management and human 
resources strategy and policy. They guide us to create 
a safe and caring workplace that embraces diversity, 
nurtures equity and inclusion, focuses on performance 
while providing the tools to succeed, ignites creativity, 
fosters collaboration and partnership, and recognizes  
and rewards contribution. By creating an organization  
in which people thrive, we create a corporation that 
helps society thrive.
For more information, see our policies and positions 
relating to Employment and Labor Practices .
In this section, we share our progress in 2020  
in the following areas:
Employee Attraction & Development
Employee Engagement
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Employee Health, Safety & WellnessNorth America
46,900‡
Asia Paci/f_ic
27,939‡Latin America
20,320‡
EMEA
41,201‡Global Workforce by Region
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.Our core set of leadership 
behaviors that define 
expectations for all 
employees underscores 
the importance of 
inspiring those around 
you to contribute ideas 
that challenge thinking, 
and to have the courage 
to test and learn, while 
demonstrating agility to 
drive and adapt to change. 
And in 2020, we witnessed 
these behaviors in practice 
every day at every level 
across our businesses and 
around the world. 
Peter Fasolo , Executive Vice President,  
Chief Human Resources Officer,  
Johnson & Johnson“
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
60Employee Attraction  
& Development
GRI 401-2, 401-3, 404-2, 404-3, SASB HC-BP-330a.1,  
HC-BP-330a.2
In 2020, we continued to expand our organization  
with hiring around the world to meet the demands of  
our growing business, placing focus on diverse talent 
that reflects the communities we serve.
Attracting employees back to a meaningful career:  
In 2020, we expanded our paid four-month returnship 
program, Re-Ignite, to India, where the focus is on 
professionals who are ready to get back to their STEM 
careers after a break, such as a break to manage family 
care responsibilities. After we reviewed more than  
100 applicants, six talented individuals joined the  
Re-Ignite program in India after successfully  
completing a detailed evaluation process, including 
career discussions to understand how Re-Ignite can  
help them achieve their professional aspirations. The  
program includes onboarding, mentoring, technical 
training and alumni guidance during the returnship 
period and offers a nurturing, inclusive environment  
for returning employees to rebuild a meaningful career. 
For more information, see our Re-Ignite videos .  Promoting employee development: The opportunity 
to develop personally and professionally is a core 
aspiration both for employees who have newly joined 
our organization and for those who have been with 
Johnson & Johnson for years. We maintain a suite 
of leadership and other professional development 
programs that engage employees in improving their skills and competencies in line with career and personal 
growth objectives. For details of these programs, see 
our Position on Employee Development . In 2020, in 
the context of restrictions on on-site presence, we 
pivoted our entire portfolio of accelerated leadership 
development programs to a virtual format.  
• Hundreds of high potential colleagues 
participated in eight cohorts of our ASCEND, 
TAP and RISE leadership programs.
• Thousands of leaders completed First Line 
Leader and Leaders Developing Leaders 
programs across more than 140 individual 
courses. • We launched Leading People at J&J, a new 
six-month development program for first-time 
line leaders with participation from employees 
across all functions and business segments.
• Hundreds of individuals continued to benefit 
through our Executive Committee Sponsorship 
program.AEO
Accelerate Executive 
Orientation (AEO)AEL
Accelerate Enterprise
Leadership (AEL)
ASCEND RISE IDP TAP
Accelerated 
Development Program 
for Women (ASCEND)Accelerated Program
for Racially and Ethnically
Diverse Talent (RISE)International Development
Program (IDP)Talent Acceleration
Process (TAP)Our suite of leadership 
and development programs
Early CareerIn 2020, we hired 13,594‡ 
new colleagues across the 
Enterprise, of whom 52.5%‡ 
were women.
‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
61Alongside leadership development, we provide 
opportunities for employees to acquire new skills  
across a broad range of professional functions and  
skill areas. For example, in 2020:  
• Tens of thousands of employees in more than 70 
countries completed programs offered through our 
LinkedIn Learning platform, accessible in different 
languages. 
• We continued promoting the development of 
capabilities in data science and digital literacy through 
our Digital Learning Academy, including a three-day 
Women in Data Science Summit. Hear the story of 
Sarah Asio, Data Science Lead, Johnson & Johnson 
Medical Devices.
Employee compensation and benefits: Our 
compensation framework includes a set of core 
principles that guide all compensation decisions, 
recognizing the important contributions of our 
employees to deliver our mission in ways that align with 
our values. We are committed to pay equity, including 
gender and ethnic/racial group pay equity. From time 
to time, we analyze our pay across functions and levels, 
and strive to eliminate unconscious bias or other barriers 
to full pay equity across the Enterprise. In 2020, we 
completed a living wage assessment to ensure pay is not 
only equitable and market competitive, but also more 
than sufficient to provide the means for our employees and their families to attain a sustainable standard of 
living. For more details, see the section on Human Rights . 
In addition to salary and wages, our benefits packages 
aim to improve the quality of life for employees by 
providing practical support for family, health and well-
being, education and long-term financial management 
needs. We continuously review and update the range  
of benefits we offer in line with new needs as they arise, 
employee feedback and changes in market practices. 
See also our Position on Employee Compensation   
and Benefits . 
In 2020,  
 93%   
of employees completed 
year-end performance 
reviews.
Many Johnson & Johnson employees have been able to adjust 
to a flexible working arrangement that allows for growth and 
development via remote digital tools.
3,206
new leaders participated in our Enterprise Leader 
Development Program in 2020, bringing the total 
number of leaders trained to date to 11,202.44.6%‡
of Managers and above moved across functions, 
country or business segment lines, building diversity 
of experiences.*1,178
employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico participated  
in the tuition reimbursement program.
‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants.
* Career progression movement includes upward promotion, lateral transfer and excludes employees in the research and development organizations.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
62Spend on Employee Learning and Development by Category   
(millions)
2020 2019 2018
Other professional skills $56 $52 $47
General leadership training & assessments $12 $17 $22
E-learning $4 $5 $7
Executive coaching $5 $10 $6
Other $31 $14 $8
Total $108 $98 $90
Employee Turnover
2020 2019 2018
Overall voluntary turnover 5%‡ 8%+8%
Voluntary turnover of high performers 3%‡4%+4%
‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.U.S. Employee Benefits
2020 2019 2018
U.S. employees who took parental leave, by gender
Women 45% 47% 44%
Men 55% 53% 56%
U.S. employees who returned to work after parental leave ended, by gender
Women 97% 98% 98%
Men 97% 100% 100%Year-End Performance Reviews Completed by Job Category
2020 2019 2018
Vice President 83% 76% 72%
Manager & Director 93% 90% 90%
Professional 93% 90% 89%
Other* 88% 82% 86%
Overall for all employees 93% 89% 89%
* Category includes employees who don’t have a merit plan as part of their compensation package.
A Johnson & Johnson employee spends time outside with his family.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
63Employee Engagement
GRI 413-1
Across our Enterprise, we encourage employees to 
take an active role in advancing Our Purpose to change 
the trajectory of health for all. We provide platforms, 
tools and resources to help everyone contribute at 
their best. Similarly, we foster an inclusive culture that 
embraces creativity combined with care for others, our 
communities and our planet.
One of the platforms we use to track employee 
sentiment and feeling of being connected to our 
colleagues and our values is our biennial Our Credo 
Survey which, in 2020, was administered in 78 countries 
and made available in 36 languages. In a year of 
unprecedented change, the survey resulted in an all-time 
high for both participation rate and favorability.Following an analysis of the detailed results, which were 
communicated to all employees, we developed plans to 
address the main areas of opportunity identified by our 
employees’ feedback, both at the Enterprise level and 
within individual teams.
In alternate years, we issue a global Our Voice Survey, 
which serves as an indicator of employee satisfaction 
and measures important aspects of our culture such as 
employee engagement, inclusion, development, health 
and wellness, collaboration, execution, innovation, and 
compliance and risk. 
Inspiring recognition:  In 2019, we introduced our 
employee recognition program, Inspire , which reaches 
at least 90% of our global workforce in more than 70 
countries. During 2020, the program continued to 
live up to its name by inspiring hundreds of thousands 
of recognition moments that celebrated meaningful 
contributions and purpose-led behaviors.
Women in STEM:  In our new Health for Humanity 2025  
Goals , we further encourage our employees to play an 
active role in engaging with our nonprofit partners to 
expose more girls to science, technology, engineering, 
mathematics, manufacturing and design (STEM 2D) 
activities, in the knowledge that advancing gender 
equality in technical professions will not only strengthen 
society, it will also build a stronger pipeline of diverse 
talent in these under-resourced professions. Our WiSTEM 2D initiative (Women in Science, 
Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, Manufacturing 
and Design) has been active since 2015, and each 
year since 2017, we have selected female STEM 2D 
tenure-track professors who are making key STEM 2D 
discoveries and shaping the future of tomorrow, as part 
of our ongoing WiSTEM 2D Scholars Award Program . 
Each awardee receives a grant of $150,000 and three 
years of mentorship. In 2020, six female scholars were 
selected from more than 540 highly qualified nominees 
from around the world. Their work is an inspiration to 
us all and represents pivotal global innovations across 
diverse fields of interest for better healthcare outcomes.
Meet our 2020 WiSTEM 2D Scholars Awardees in this  
video . Read more about our WiSTEM 2D program here .2020 Our Credo Survey high-level results
• 93%  participation rate, a 3% increase 
compared to 2018 (among all eligible 
employees).
• 89%  favorability rate, which reflects how 
we are fulfilling Our Credo commitments 
to employees, a 4% increase compared  
to 2018 on like-to-like questions.
• 94%  agreed with the statement: Ensures 
our first responsibility is to the patients, 
doctors and nurses, mothers and fathers, 
and all others who use our products and 
services.
• 87%  agreed with the statement: Provides 
an inclusive work environment where each 
employee is considered as an individual.  
• 94%  agreed with the statement:  
Acts responsibly to the communities  
in which we live and work and the  
world community as well.2025 Goals  
 
Women in STEM 2D
By 2025, engage two million girls  
in STEM 2D activities.
For full details of this Goal and KPI,  
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
Innovative research areas of Johnson & 
Johnson’s WiSTEM 2D 2020 Scholars  
• Science:  how pre-planet chemistry and 
physics affect a future planet's ability to 
support life
• Technology:  machine learning to address 
critical clinical problems in brain tumors 
• Engineering:  microbiology that can help 
treat inflammatory bowel disease
• Manufacturing:  soft, foldable robots that 
can be used in healthcare procedures 
• Mathematics:  statistics, causal-inference 
and agent-based modeling to make clinical 
analyses more robust and free of bias 
• Design:  hospital lighting design to help 
improve health outcomes and energy 
efficiency 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
64Engaging employees for healthy communities: We 
inspire our employees to be a part of creating healthy 
communities through our Talent for Good Strategy,  
led by our Global Community Impact organization. 
Talent for Good offers a wide range of engagement 
opportunities for employees around the globe, inviting 
each to take part at their preferred level of participation 
in a focus area of their interest. Programs include 
blood drives, donations to help support frontline health 
workers and skill-based volunteering opportunities via 
short-term programs or secondments with nonprofit 
partner organizations. For more information see our 
Position on Community Impact .
During 2020, most of our Talent for Good programs 
converted to virtual platforms to enable participation. 
For example: 
• Bridge to Employment continued to serve students 
through college preparation provided by university 
partners and thousands of hours of mentoring by 
Johnson & Johnson colleagues. Pathways to Success 
provided virtual internships for college seniors. 
• Hundreds of employees took part in skills-based pro 
bono programs serving 81 NGOs across Talent for 
Good platforms. 
• Thousands of Johnson & Johnson employee 
volunteers and nonprofit partners engaged more 
than 300,000 girls with STEM 2D education through 
our WiSTEM 2D Youth Pillar. Activities included a 
live Facebook series featuring Johnson & Johnson 
volunteers supporting STEM 2D activities at home, 
distribution of educational kits and virtual summer 
camps. 
• We launched the VV100  ScopeAthon program, to 
continue to support women leaders at the forefront 
of change and global progress. The program pairs 
Johnson & Johnson with VV100 leaders in four-
hour virtual consulting sessions to help address 
organizational challenges.   
• Where virtual platforms were not possible, certain 
activities were temporarily postponed, for example, 
our One Young World program, which we expect to 
continue in 2021.Strategic Talent for Good programs:
• Bridge to Employment:  engages employees 
as mentors to help young people improve 
performance and learn about different career 
opportunities. The extension progam, Pathways 
to Success, provides internships at Johnson & 
Johnson.
• WiSTEM 2D: engages Johnson & Johnson 
employees globally to inspire young girls and 
women to enter STEM 2D fields. See the section 
Women in STEM .
• Secondment programs:  assigns employees 
to NGO partners for secondments of up to six 
months and senior leaders engaging for four to 
six months in strategic and advisory roles.
• Global Pro Bono:  pairs teams of employees 
with NGO partners working on the front lines 
of health for capacity building over a four-week 
period (12-week virtually in 2020).  • Talent for Healthy Communities:  connects 
employees with local community partners in  
a remote pro bono program to address critical 
capacity-building needs.
• Vital Voices Global Partnership:  engages 
colleagues in helping scale and accelerate  
the impact of women leaders at the forefront  
of change and global progress.
• One Young World: convenes the brightest 
young talent working to accelerate social  
impact around the world with support from 
Johnson & Johnson employees who guide  
and mentor participants. 
Additionally, several signature partnerships 
provide opportunities for employee engagement. 
See the section Our Giving & Partnerships .Talent for Good program overview
Programs that enable all 
employees to participate 
without being away from 
the oﬃce or requiring travelPrograms with strategic 
partnerships that help to 
build healthy communities 
and careersSupport a cause
& partnershipsPrograms that oﬀer 
mentoring and coaching 
opportunities to help 
others develop and 
reach their full potentialInspiring mindsPrograms that connect 
our employees with 
people from NGOs and 
enterpreneurial 
organizations in need of 
their skills to strengthen 
organizational capacityCapacity builder
Level of EngagementTime/EﬀortPrograms that are fully 
immersive experiences 
(individual and/or team 
participation) based on 
mapping NGOs needs 
with employees’ skills 
and competenciesService for good
Advocate for a cause
Local Volunteer Leaves
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
65Engaging employees for a healthy planet:  We Sustain, our environmental 
sustainability employee engagement program, mobilizes passionate employees to 
improve the environmental health of the places where we live, work and sell our 
products. In 2020, 67 We Sustain teams across the globe engaged their colleagues 
to protect the environment and human health through education, idea sharing and 
community volunteerism in environmental programs. Additionally, during our annual 
Environmental Month, we asked employees to take personal action to reduce their 
carbon footprint (Pause on Carbon) through reducing food waste, eating more plants 
and being energy smart. Through this online campaign, employees recorded tens of 
thousands of personal actions, which signals strong awareness and motivation by 
employees to be active stewards of the planet and connect to our environmental  
health strategy.  
Employees and their families gathered at the Johnson & Johnson Suzhou site’s cleanup campaign  
to support environmental sustainability.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
66Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
GRI 405-1 
Our mission is to make diversity, equity and inclusion 
(DEI) how we work every day. We know that bringing 
together our diverse backgrounds, cultures and 
perspectives drives innovation to solve today’s complex 
health problems. We continue to challenge ourselves on 
what it means to prioritize DEI in every business decision 
we make, and we leverage our DEI strategy, policies and 
programs to provide our workforce with the support and 
opportunities they need to help create a healthier, more 
equitable world. For more information, see our Diversity,  
Equity & Inclusion Policy .In 2020, we published our second You Belong: Diversity,  
Equity & Inclusion Impact Review , which shares stories 
of how we have advanced DEI across all the different 
dimensions of our business and in line with our strategic 
goals. As part of our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals , 
we have committed to a new set of ambitious targets to 
further improve our internal resilience and to contribute 
to greater social equity. 
Complementing and reinforcing our DEI strategy and 
initiatives that we have been pursuing for years, Our 
Race to Health Equity initiative, launched in 2020, is 
a bold aspiration to help eradicate racial and social 
injustice as a public health threat by eliminating health 
inequities. Internally, we are prioritizing areas that will 
enable us to take meaningful, deliberate and thoughtful 
actions, including: accelerating inclusive leadership 
behaviors and cultural competencies; transforming 
human resources processes to optimally access, 
hire, develop and deploy diverse individuals; and 
strengthening our pipeline of diverse talent by partnering 
with Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) 
and other diverse associations. Our Race to Health 
Equity platform will help us evolve our capabilities, 
sharpen our strategic focus and amplify our contribution 
to a more just society.  24,300  
employees engaged in 
Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs)
260 
U.S. ERG Chapters
183 
non-U.S. ERG Chapters
 “No one company can build a more equitable 
and just society alone. We need to engage 
even more deeply in our communities 
and partner with representative groups at 
national, regional and local levels so that 
we can leverage our size and scale to drive 
systemic change. Together, we can advance 
diversity, equity and inclusion to change the 
trajectory of health for all.” 
Wanda Bryant Hope , Chief Diversity, Equity 
& Inclusion Officer, Johnson & Johnson2025 Goals
Women in 
Management
By 2025, achieve 50%  
of women in management 
positions globally.Ethnic/Racial 
Diversity in 
Management
By 2025, achieve 35% 
ethnic/racial diversity in 
management positions  
within the U.S.Black/African 
Americans in 
Management
By 2025, achieve 50% 
growth of our Black and 
African American employees 
in management positions in 
the U.S.
For full details of these Goals and KPIs, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
67Gender Diversity of Global Employees 1,2
2020 2019 2018
Women 48.1%‡47.8%+47.1%
Men 51.9% 52.2% 53.0%
Gender Diversity in Management and Executive Positions 3
2020 2019 2018
Women in management positions 46.4%‡45.8%+45.3%
Women in executive positions 14.3%‡14.3%+14.3%Gender Diversity by Job Category 1
2020 2019 2018
Vice Presidents
Women 35.3%‡34.2%+35.0%
Men 64.7% 65.8% 65.0%
Managers and Directors
Women 46.8%‡46.2%+45.6%
Men 53.2% 53.8 % 54.4%
Professionals
Women 49.8%‡49.5%+48.5%
Men 50.2% 50.5% 51.5%Gender Diversity by Region 1
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Asia Pacific
Women 46.2%‡46.0%+45.6%
Men 53.8% 54.0% 54.4%
Europe, Middle East & Africa
Women 49.8%‡49.7%+48.5%
Men 50.2% 50.3% 51.5%
Latin America
Women 51.1%‡50.2%+49.4%
Men 48.9% 49.8% 50.7%
North America4
Women 46.3%‡46.1%+45.6%
Men 53.6% 53.9% 54.4%
Gender Diversity by Employment Type 1
2020 2019 2018
Full-time employees
Women 47.1%‡46.7%+46.0%
Men 52.9% 53.3 % 54.0%
Part-time employees
Women 82.9%‡82.6%+83.6%
Men 17.1% 17.4% 16.4%
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
1 As of October 2020, new categories were added to allow employees to actively decline self-identification or remain unidentified. Where the value for 'Declined to answer' rounded to zero, we excluded from the reported table.
2 “Employee” is defined as an individual working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed term employees, interns and co-op employees. Employee data may not include full population from more recently acquired companies and individuals on long-term disability are 
excluded. Contingent workers, contractors and subcontractors are also excluded.
3 Management positions are defined as paygrade 30 and above; executives are defined as employees reporting directly to the Chairman and CEO. 
4 Values have been rounded to the nearest tenth. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
68Age Diversity by Job Category 1
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Vice Presidents
Under 30 0%‡0%+0%
30 – 50 44.2%‡46.3%+46.6%
50+ 55.8%‡53.7%+53.4%
Managers and Directors4
Under 30 1.3%‡1.3%+1.4%
30 – 50 72.4%‡73.2%+73.9%
50+ 26.4%‡25.6%+24.7%
Professionals4
Under 30 20.7%‡21.4%+21.4%
30 – 50 61.7%‡61.7%+61.7%
50+ 17.5%‡16.9%+17.0%Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S. by Job Category
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Vice Presidents4
White 72.7% 75.4% 74.9%
Asian 11.2% 10.4% 10.4%
Black/ African American 6.6% 6.7% 6.6%
Hispanic/Latino 8.4% 6.9% 7.7%
Other 0.9% 0.6% 0.4%
Declined to answer1 0.1%
Managers and Directors
White 67.7% 70.2% 70.7%
Asian 17.2%‡16.6%+16.5%
Black  /  African American 5.4%‡5.0%+4.9%
Hispanic/Latino 7.3%‡7.0%+6.9%
Other 1.3%‡1.2%+1.1%
Declined to answer1 1.1%‡
Professionals4
White 66.4% 68.0% 68.4%
Asian 12.9%‡12.0%+12.0%
Black  /  African American 7.5%‡7.6%+7.3%
Hispanic/Latino 10.2%‡10.4%+10.7%
Other 2.2%‡2.0%+1.7%
Declined to answer1 0.9%‡
‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
1 As of October 2020, new categories were added to allow employees to actively decline self-identification or remain unidentified. Where the value for 'Declined to answer' rounded to zero, we excluded from the reported table.
4 Values have been rounded to the nearest tenth. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
69Diversity in Board Composition
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Women 35.7%‡28.6%+27.0%
Ethnic/racial diversity 21.4%‡21.4%+27.0%
New Employee Hires
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Total Number of New Hires 13,594‡21,948+Not reported
By Region
Asia Pacific 28.4%‡28.9%+30.1%
Europe, Middle East & Africa 22.7%‡27.0%+27.4%
Latin America 22.4%‡16.5%+16.9%
North America 26.4%‡27.6%+25.7%
By Gender
Women 52.5%‡51.4%+51.6%
Men 47.5%‡48.6% 48.4%
Declined to answer 0%‡
By Age 4
Under 30 46.5%‡52.7%+47.1%
30 – 50 48.5%‡42.8%+48.0%
50+ 4.9%‡4.5%+4.9%
As additional information, we have included our most recently filed U.S. Federal Employer Information Report EEO-1 . 
Because federal reporting requirements group employees in the EEO-1 differently than the Company does in its 
Health for Humanity Report (which aligns with the Company’s organizational structure and employee level or pay 
grade), the numbers are not directly comparable. While we are making the EEO-1 Report available, we believe the 
data as presented in our Health for Humanity Report is the most meaningful measure of our diversity progress.
‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
4 Values have been rounded to the nearest tenth. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
70Employee Health,  
Safety & Wellness
GRI 403-9, 403-10 
At Johnson & Johnson, our investment in employee 
health, well-being and safety is built on our conviction 
that advancing health for humanity starts with advancing 
the health of our employees. With the right awareness, 
focus, practices and tools, we aim to ensure that all 
our employees around the world, as well as temporary 
contractors and visitors to our sites, can work safely. 
Beyond occupational health and safety, we aspire to 
have the healthiest workforce and have continuously 
expanded health and well-being programs throughout 
Johnson & Johnson globally, incorporating new thinking 
and technologies to help employees achieve their 
personal mind and body health goals. See our Positions 
on Environmental Health and Safety Management  and 
Employee Health and Well-Being .
Following the successful achievement of our health and 
well-being goals in 2020 (see Health for Humanity 2020 
Goals Scorecard ), this year, as part of our Health for  
Humanity 2025 Goals , we have an innovative, first-of-its-
kind commitment for Johnson & Johnson to ensure our 
managers across the organization realize the imperative of protecting, supporting and advancing health and 
well-being for all employees. Through this new goal, 
we will reinforce our commitment to protecting 
employee health, prioritizing employee mental health 
and sustaining our focus on energy management to help 
build employee resiliency.
2020 was atypical in terms of our operations and 
the addition of new safety protocols to protect our 
workforce from the risks of COVID-19 (see the section 
COVID-19: Protecting our Employees ). However, as the 
pandemic persisted, we maintained our uncompromising 
focus on health and safety and ended the year with 
strong results across all our safety metrics. 
We continued our safety programs and activities 
during 2020 even given the challenging circumstances 
throughout the year. Where relevant, we conducted 
training and team activities virtually. Examples of our 
activities during the year include:
Safety Month:  We leveraged our annual Safety Month 
to introduce the Six Habits for Safety Success program. 
Safety teams at our global sites introduced the Habits 
with virtual engagement for all those working remotely 
and appropriate activities for employees onsite, in line 
with social distancing protocols. Tens of thousands of 
employees participated in Safety Month activations and 
made commitments to safety actions.  Health and wellness support online:  We launched a new 
digital health and well-being tool to support employees 
to stay physically energized, emotionally connected and 
mentally focused, especially when facing heightened 
stress levels during this difficult year. The online program 
includes a confidential health risk assessment that 
helps employees understand how lifestyle choices, 
health status and behavior influence their current and 
future well-being and learn how to address modifiable 
health risks. In addition, we introduced a weekly health 
newsletter connecting employees to health and well-
being resources available from Johnson & Johnson.
Global Activity Challenge:  Our annual Global Activity 
Challenge engaged more than 28,000 employees 
from 70 countries for 21 days of movement, resulting 
in the largest increase in physical activity (63%) for any 
Johnson & Johnson activity challenge to date. 
We operate 119 on-site healthcare clinics   
in 35 countries  across all sectors  
of our business. 
In 2020, we maintained core clinical services 
for our on-site employees and expanded to 
provide remote telehealth support as we 
managed the ongoing health risks to our 
workforce during the COVID-19 pandemic. 2025 Goals  
 
Healthiest 
Workforce Score
By 2025, x%* of Johnson & 
Johnson leaders and their 
managers will be accountable to 
achieve ≥ x%* annual Healthiest 
Workforce Score.
 
 
For full details of this Goal and KPI,  
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
* Baseline to be established in 2021. 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
71World Mental Health Day:  In 2020, we placed emphasis on increasing our 
understanding of mental health conditions, breaking down stigma and empowering 
us to care for our mental health and well-being and that of those around us. Through a 
series of online interactions across the globe in our 24-hour Global Virtual Mindfulness 
Relay, Johnson & Johnson set a Guinness World Record  with nearly 13,000 employees 
from 79 countries taking a moment to unplug, increase self-awareness and learn new 
strategies to help manage stress.  
Energy management: Our enterprise-wide ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE program 
helps employees manage their energy capacity so that they can be their best at work 
and in life. We have consistently expanded the use of this program in line with our 
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals  and introduced virtual courses to continue to deliver 
this important training during the pandemic. 
ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE Progress
102,000  employees completed ENERGY FOR 
PERFORMANCE training since 2016, with 9,924  
employees completing training in 2020.
129,000  and 126,000  employees were provided  
with access to and fully implemented healthy eating 
and healthy movement cultures, respectively.
A Johnson & Johnson employee in the U.S. and his sons kept healthy by exercising together while he 
worked from home.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
72‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in our 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
* LWDC rate, TRIR, SIIC rate, and fatalities are calculated for Johnson & Johnson employees and contingent workers. Contingent workers (i.e. workers supplied by third-party agencies that are the worker’s employer of record) are intended to supplement or 
temporarily replace existing workforce and are directly supervised by a Johnson & Johnson employee.
** “Lost days” are calendar days counted beginning the day after an incident has taken place.
*** CPMM and IPMM rates are based on Safe Fleet data. Rate calculation methodology uses both actual and estimated data on miles driven. We collect Safe Fleet data on employees who drive Company-owned or -leased, and personally owned vehicles for 
Company business. Employees in the latter category are those who: 1) drive for Company business as a “regular part “of their job, and 2) receive a car allowance to purchase their own vehicle, and/or are reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance, 
insurance and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep.Employee Safety,* Global
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Lost Workday Case rate** 0.05‡0.07+0.08
Total Recordable Injury Rate 0.24‡0.31+0.41
Serious Injury and Illness Case rate 0.02‡0.04+0.05
Number of fatalities 0‡0+2
Crashes Per Million Miles (CPMM) rate*** 4.86 5.54 5.81
Injuries Per Million Miles (IPMM) rate*** 0.05 0.06 0.07Employee Safety* by Region
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Lost Workday Case rate**
Asia Pacific 0.02‡0.06+0.05
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.04‡0.05+0.05
Latin America 0.08‡0.06+0.11
North America 0.07‡0.08+0.10
Total Recordable Injury Rate
Asia Pacific 0.08‡0.12+0.17
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.21‡0.27+0.29
Latin America 0.18‡0.25+0.43
North America 0.35‡0.42+0.57
Serious Injury and Illness Case rate
Asia Pacific 0.02‡0.04+0.01
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.01‡0.03+0.02
Latin America 0.01‡0.02+0.01
North America 0.04‡0.06+0.09
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
73Product Quality  
& Safety
As the world’s largest and most broadly based 
healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson reaches 
patients and consumers across the world with its 
medicines, consumer health products and medical 
devices. Their safety when using our products is a  
critical priority for Johnson & Johnson: we insist 
on quality and safety at every stage of product 
development, manufacturing, supply chain and 
commercialization to ensure our products are as 
effective and safe as possible.  
Our effective management of consumer and patient 
safety includes: 
• Adherence to strict quality standards; 
• Ethically led, science-driven decision-making  
in all matters relating to medical safety; and 
• Protecting those who use our products from 
counterfeit and illicit trade. Quality Management 
GRI 416-2, J&J20-9, SASB: HC-BP-250a.3; HC-BP-250a.5; 
HC-MS-250a.1; HC-MS-250a.4
The Johnson & Johnson Quality Policies and Standards 
across our Family of Companies cover the lifecycle of 
our products from R&D to the consumer and patient 
experience. They provide a framework and common 
foundation of quality expectations and help ensure 
a reliable supply of high-quality products across all 
our business segments. See our Position on Quality  
and Compliance  and our Johnson & Johnson Quality  
Management Framework .
In 2020, we continued to assess and improve our internal 
quality policies and standards to ensure we are keeping 
pace with the changing regulatory demands for our 
diverse portfolio of products. Employing thousands 
of individuals across the Enterprise, our Quality and 
Compliance functions are increasingly adopting digital 
innovations to drive effectiveness and efficiency within 
our quality processes. In our clinical quality programs, 
we are expanding data science partnerships with 
external experts and providers, as well as industry peers, 
to accelerate insights and embed predictive signaling. 
We have deployed Robotic Process Automation 
capabilities that deliver process efficiencies and increase 
the accuracy of trial monitoring and data management 
activities.
Areas of progress in 2020 include initial deployments of:
Digital acceleration:  With the rise of digital, artificial 
intelligence (AI), and Big Data we are advancing our 
digital strategy in different ways:
• AI for complaints:  Our team developed AI and 
machine learning methods that read narratives 
from customer complaints and turn the customer 
feedback into insights. The algorithms can predict 
categorization, allowing higher automation of the 
process and greater contextualization of information, 
helping to share actionable insights.
• Intelligent Automation:  We have expanded our  
use of Intelligent Automation in our partnership  
with our Regulatory Affairs organization that enables 
us to evaluate Company data more rapidly, more 
consistently and with improved accuracy.  • Real-time controls:  We are raising the visibility of data 
through highly targeted dashboarding and signaling, 
accompanied by decision assist methods that present 
data clearly and support real-time, data-driven 
decisions in our product development process. We 
have developed tools that offer significant reductions 
in cycle time and lower levels of error.
• Natural Language Processing: We are currently using 
Natural Language Processing methods to unlock 
knowledge from quality text data with new methods 
that compare the similarity of new quality records to 
past data. This allows rapid identification of similar 
historic occurrences with a proven track record of 
solutions. 
Shaping the future regulatory model for software-
based medical devices:  We continue to partner with 
the FDA  in the Digital Health Software Precertification  
(Pre-Cert) Pilot Program . The FDA’s Pre-Cert Program 
is envisioned to accelerate speed to U.S. market for 
Software as a Medical Device solution. The intention 
is to grant streamlined product regulatory reviews for 
digital health technology companies that demonstrate 
and maintain a culture of quality and organizational 
excellence. The focus of the pilot phase of the program 
is to build and test the pre-cert model with select pilot 
participants within the industry, including Johnson   & 
Johnson. In 2020, we shared with the FDA our 
perspective on key measures to evaluate and monitor 
organizations and to conduct excellence appraisals of 
organizations. In addition, we tested and suggested 
improvements for the FDA’s proposed tools and 
enablers, which would drive components of the pre-cert 
model. For 2021, our focus will continue to be on testing 
the pre-cert model and helping the FDA develop policy 
related to device classification. Upon completion, we 
believe the Pre-Cert Program will provide an innovative 
regulatory pathway for organizations to submit their 
products with ease and efficiency while meeting high 
product quality and safety standards.In this section, we share our progress in 2020  
in the following areas:
Quality Management
Medical Safety
Counterfeiting & Illicit Trade
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
74Annual Quality Month:  In October 2020, we activated 
our annual quality month under the theme: “Quality 
starts with me!” We embarked on a modified virtual 
program to engage our global sites and employees in 
reflection, celebration, and recommitment to quality 
through virtual workshops and interactive educational 
sessions.
Enabling clinical trial execution using digital tools:  
Innovations within clinical trial execution grew rapidly in 
response to the constraints of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Working together with R&D partners, we introduced 
new capabilities for digital quality monitoring of clinical 
sites and created new means for conducting quality 
oversight of innovative methods of patient data capture 
to enable home healthcare. We also rapidly expanded 
virtualization of audits, which aided in continued quality 
oversight during periods of reduced on-site interactions. 
See our United in Defeating COVID-19 section.
Product Quality Indicators
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Number of regulatory inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites  
by worldwide health authorities452‡521+619
Percentage of regulatory inspections that resulted in zero observations 82%‡73%+78%
Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites 10‡17+24
Percentage of FDA inspections that resulted in zero observations 80%‡76%+75%
Average number of observations per FDA inspection 1.7‡0.6+0.6
Number of independent audits of Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure 
compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy & Standards165‡156+179
Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites to ensure 
compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy & Standards230‡264+237
Number of FDA warning letters issued 0‡1+0
Product recall rate,* by business segment
Pharmaceutical 0%‡0.002% Not reported
Medical Devices 0.034%‡0.041% Not reported
Consumer Health 0%‡0.091% Not reported
‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
* Product recall rate is defined as number of lots removed from market per total globally manufactured, based on field action removals 
where it has been determined internally by a Quality Review Board, and aligned by Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Compliance, that there 
is a reasonable probability that the product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences and in certain cases 
will cause serious adverse health consequences. Consumer Health over-the-counter (OTC) product removals are included.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
75Medical Safety
GRI 416-1 
Patient and consumer well-being is a priority in our 
decision-making and actions. The Office of the Chief  
Medical Officer (OCMO) leads medical safety globally 
at Johnson & Johnson, championing patient-centered, 
evidence- and science-based decisions across our three 
business segments. Our work is underpinned by a single 
medical safety standard to which all our products are 
held. 
In addition to our standards, policies and processes, 
our approach to medical safety is also informed by 
RWD  to enhance our understanding of the safety and 
effectiveness of our medicines and medical devices 
outside clinical trial settings. In partnership with leading 
organizations, OCMO  is working to advance novel 
methodologies and tools for real-world data analysis to 
further inform clinical and regulatory decision-making 
and advance public health.
One of our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals reflects 
the growing importance of RWE  in improving health 
outcomes.Organizations we regularly collaborate with and/or support  
to improve RWD  and RWE  methodologies and tools:  
FDA EMA
2025 Goals  
 
Healthcare 
for Women
By 2025, publish insights into 
best-practice healthcare for 
women based on real-world data 
of one million women.
For full details of this Goal and KPI,  
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
See our positions and policies relating to patient safety:
• Position on Patient Safety
• Position on Consumer Safety and Care
• Position on Clinical Trial Data Transparency
• Position on the Conduct of Clinical Trials
• Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and Development
• Position on Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Research
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
76In 2020, we further advanced medical safety for our 
diverse patients and consumers in innovative and 
collaborative ways, including:
Leveraging artificial intelligence  
for pharmacovigilance:  
We are advancing a first-in-kind AI capability to 
streamline pharmacovigilance processes for faster 
handling of complaint cases. At the Medicines and 
Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) 
Symposium 2020, Johnson & Johnson was recognized 
for our Literature Assist Tool, noting we are one of 
the few companies to demonstrate a first-in-kind AI 
capability in production and commending our unique 
intelligent automation strategy that includes both 
prescription and OTC products. The Literature Assist 
Tool, developed by Janssen R&D, leverages artificial 
neural networks and natural language processing 
to review scientific literature and identify safety 
cases, enabling faster complaint case processing 
with the capability to review hundreds of thousands 
of literature abstracts and articles each year. This 
technology reduces the burden of data entry from 
the labor-intensive literature review process so that 
pharmacovigilance experts can focus on verifying data 
accuracy and ensuring the safety of drugs and products.  Improving maternal health outcomes: In partnership 
with the Center for Maternal Health Equity at the 
Morehouse School of Medicine, OCMO  convened the 
Georgia Maternal Health Research for Action Steering 
Committee, a group of clinical and academic experts in 
Black maternal health in Georgia, U.S., 19 which has one of 
the highest maternal mortality and morbidity rates in the 
United States. The Committee aims to provide guidance 
on an integrated suite of scalable programs to improve 
maternal health outcomes for Black mothers. We are 
conducting ethnographic research to understand the 
unique concerns and needs of Black mothers in Georgia 
during their pregnancy journey that will guide potential 
digital solutions to increase postpartum co-morbidity 
self-management and to promote early notification of 
postpartum complications.
Accelerating access to medicines for young patients: 
Typically, there is a small and widely dispersed pediatric 
patient population available for clinical trials, which 
presents a challenge in terms of assessing efficacy 
and safety of medicines for children. Utilizing existing 
databases to supplement pediatric clinical trial data  
can reduce drug development time by years. In 2020, 
OCMO championed the use of data extrapolation from 
adult clinical trials to seek a pediatric indication for 
SIMPONI ARIA (golimumab) in pediatric patients with 
arthritis. The submission was approved by the FDA , 
leading to a pediatric indication for SIMPONI ARIA,  
and accelerated access to this medicine to help children 
get the treatment they need faster.    
Innovating to prevent accidental ingestions and 
medication errors in children:  Child safety has 
always been a cornerstone of our medical safety 
work. Thousands of children are rushed to emergency 
departments every day due to accidental unsupervised 
ingestions. In 2020, we worked with JLABS  to introduce 
the Pill Protect QuickFire Challenge: Designing for  
Medication Safety  with support from the Scientific 
Education and Patient Advocacy in coordination with  
the CDC  PROTECT Initiative. The best potential solution 
to prevent or reduce the accidental access by children  
to medications in pill dispensers will be announced in 
2021 and receive up to $100,000 in grant funding,  
access to the global JLABS network and mentorship 
from Johnson & Johnson experts.Talc safety: We continue to address allegations that 
JOHNSON’S Baby Powder can cause adverse health 
effects. We sympathize deeply with cancer patients 
and their families and appreciate that they are seeking 
answers. However, the science and the facts show 
that their illnesses were not caused by their use of our 
talcum-based products. Our website factsabouttalc.com  
includes independent studies from leading universities, 
research from medical journals and third-party opinions 
confirming that our talc is safe. Johnson & Johnson 
remains steadfastly confident in the safety of talc-based 
JOHNSON’S Baby Powder. Decades of scientific studies 
by medical experts around the world support the safety 
of our product. The facts are that JOHNSON’S Baby 
Powder is safe, does not contain asbestos and does not 
increase the risk of cancer. In 2020, as a response to 
declining demand for this product, we discontinued sales 
in the United States and Canada.In September 2020, Johnson & Johnson 
joined the WHO  and the International 
Alliance of Patients’ Organizations 
(IAPO) to bring attention to patient and 
health worker safety through World 
Patient Safety Day, and to increase 
public awareness and engagement, 
enhance global understanding, and spur 
global action to promote patient safety. 
Our OCMO colleagues participated as 
keynote speakers and panelists in IAPO’s 
annual Global Patients Congress. 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
77Counterfeiting & Illicit Trade
GRI J&J20-4, SASB: HC-BP-260a.1; HC-MS-430a.2
Counterfeit, illegally diverted and tampered-with 
healthcare products place people at risk of serious 
health problems—potentially even death—and 
undermine confidence in product quality, safety and 
reliability, which, at Johnson & Johnson, is central to 
everything we do. Additionally, counterfeit healthcare 
products negatively impact the economy of healthcare 
by diverting income and tax revenues from those who 
work to improve healthcare. Illicit trade adds a cost 
burden of monitoring and control for healthcare systems, 
and can negatively impact health outcomes. 
We believe the illicit trade of healthcare products must 
be stemmed for the benefit of all, and we strongly 
support stricter regulation in this area. For example, we 
supported the passage of the H.R. 5663 Safeguarding  
Therapeutics Act , giving the FDA  the authority to 
destroy counterfeit medical devices and combination 
products at ports of entry. The bill was enacted after 
being signed by the President on January 5, 2021.
Our mandatory biennial Code of Business Conduct 
training for all employees includes a module on 
counterfeit products and illicit trade to help employees 
be proactive in protecting our patients and consumers. Illicit trade complaints are also incorporated as a 
category of complaints into the Product Quality 
Complaint/Adverse Event training that all employees 
are required to take. In addition, we provide dedicated 
training modules for employees in certain functions 
to continue their education on anti-counterfeiting 
and product protection best practices. Outside of the 
Company, we regularly train government officials to help 
them identify suspect versions of Johnson & Johnson 
products. In 2020, we launched our Global Brand 
Protection Customs Program for customs and border 
protection officials, which delivered global product 
protection training virtually via 37 sessions due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
In 2020, we deployed multi-faceted protection 
capabilities to reduce the threat of counterfeiting,  
theft, cyberattacks and other forms of illicit trade  
for our COVID-19 vaccine, as described in the section 
COVID-19: Advancing a Vaccine and Therapies . We 
also continued the ongoing fight against counterfeit 
healthcare products in several ways:
Customs, government and other partnerships:   
We record our trademarks with customs and border 
protection agencies to stop illicit trade at ports of 
entry around the world. Our customs and government partnerships resulted in an increase of suspect product 
notifications and related seizures from the previous 
year. This increases confidence that our patients and 
consumers will receive genuine Johnson & Johnson 
products. We also continue to engage with seven 
external trade groups, alliances, organizations and 
agencies—either in leadership positions or as a member 
of industry working groups—to help collaboratively 
combat trade in counterfeit healthcare products. 
Introducing a tool to assess counterfeit risk:  During 
2020, we deployed a new prioritization tool that analyzes 
data from various sources to determine the brands at the 
greatest risk for illicit trade. Our Segmentation Tool uses 
market and business intelligence and multiyear internal 
data to improve decision-making in the best interests of 
patient protection.   
Adding security measures: We introduced a 
sophisticated security feature to the existing tamper-
evident seal already in use at our pharmaceutical 
packaging sites in Europe. The new seal was designed 
for use on critical pharmaceutical products in markets 
at high risk for illicit trade. We also started using digital 
authentication features across our product portfolios to 
enhance the ability to authenticate products when they 
are in the market.  
Anti-counterfeiting best 
practices training delivered  
in 2020:  
 145  
Johnson & Johnson employees
3,164  
customs and border patrol 
officials
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
78Environmental Health
GRI 307-1
At Johnson & Johnson, the world’s largest and most broadly based healthcare 
company, we are deeply motivated to be active stewards of the environment and 
contributors to sustainable development. We know that human health is inextricably 
linked to the health of the planet, and the health of the planet depends on us, 
individually and collectively. See our Position on Human Health and the Environment . 
Environmental stewardship is grounded in Our Credo  and is essential to delivering  
on Our Purpose of profoundly changing the trajectory of health.Johnson & Johnson's latest climate goals build on a longstanding commitment to 
environmental health, which includes more than two decades of public climate 
commitments. Building on our strong legacy of climate action, in September 2020, we 
announced Johnson & Johnson’s next generation of Health for Humanity climate goals:
Our operational (Scope 1 & 2) emissions goal has been validated by  
the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi)  as being consistent with the 
reductions required to keep global warming to 1.5°C and goes beyond  
what the latest climate science deems necessary to meet the goals of the 
Paris Climate Agreement. Our value chain (Scope 3) goal meets the SBTi’s 
criteria for ambitious value chain goals, meaning it is in line with current 
best practice.2025 Goals
Renewable Electricity
By 2025, source 100% of our electricity needs from  
renewable sources.
Carbon Neutrality for  
Our Operations
By 2030, achieve carbon neutrality for our operations,  
going beyond our Science-Based Target to reduce absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions 60% from 2016 levels.
Scope 3 Emissions Reductions
By 2030, reduce absolute upstream value chain (Scope 3) 
emissions 20% from 2016 levels.
 
 
For full details of these Goals and KPIs, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
We must maintain in good order the property 
we are privileged to use, protecting the 
environment and natural resources. 
Our Credo , Johnson & Johnson, 1943“
Wind turbines at Johnson & Johnson's facility in Cork, Ireland.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
79Our EH&S  Standards reflect industry best practices and 
aim to ensure that all Johnson & Johnson entities around 
the world are compliant with applicable environmental 
laws and regulations, and that they maintain consistently 
high-quality EH&S performance in line with our 
goals and the multiple metrics that we track at every 
facility. Our progress in environmental sustainability 
encompasses our engagement with suppliers (see 
section Responsible  Supply Base ) and includes a focus 
on: 
• Advancing climate resilience; 
• Managing our waste and water impacts; and 
• Improving product sustainability.
See also our Environmental Health and Safety Policy   
and our suite of ESG policies and positions  including 
those relating to environmental health. EH&S Governance Indicators
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001 (d) (e)95‡100+112
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001 (d) (e)96%‡97%+99%
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to OHSAS 18001 
(Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) or ISO 45001 (d) (e)21%‡24%+32%
Number of environmental non-compliances (a) (b)50‡61+44
Fines paid for environmental non-compliances (b) (c) (thousands) $5.9‡$41+$2
‡ See PwC’ s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
(a) Environmental non-compliances represent instances of non-compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or laws that were 
either (i) self-reported to authorities in the reporting year or (ii) identified by authorities and the non-compliance occurred in the reporting 
year. The authorities include regional, national, state/country/province, and local/city regulatory agencies.  
(b) Environmental non-compliances and fines paid exclude newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than 2 years as of December 31, 2020).
(c) Fines paid for environmental non-compliances include those paid in the reporting year. It does not include fines assessed and/or under 
negotiation that were not paid as of December 31, 2020.
(d) Certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 means the site has received an external certification that is valid as of December 31, 
2020.
(e) The denominator of total manufacturing and research & development (R&D) sites excludes small R&D and manufacturing sites  
(defined as having less than 50 employees) and newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than 3 years as of December 31, 2020). In this section, we share our progress in 2020  
in the following areas:
Climate Resilience
Water & Waste Management
Product Sustainability
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
80Climate Resilience
GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7
We believe industry has an important role to play in responding to climate change 
by implementing voluntary reductions of the greenhouse gases (GHGs) within their 
control. We have made strong progress in transitioning to renewable electricity, 
achieving over 50% globally in 2020 as we strive toward 100% over the next five years. 
Additionally, we expect to make further investments in energy efficiency across our 
operations and are evaluating alternative fuel sources and fleet vehicle choices. 
We have several renewable energy initiatives underway at Johnson & Johnson  
facilities across the globe:
Current Renewable Electricity Contracts
Juarez, Mexico
WindAmarillo, TX
WindHelsingborg, Sweden
HydropowerSwiss Campus
Hydropower
German Campus
HydropowerJapan Mfg + R&D
Hydropower
Philippines
GeothermalIrish Campus
Wind
Athens, GA
Solar
Greek Campus
SolarBelgium / Holland Campus
Oﬀshore Wind
Virtual Power Purchase 
Agreement
Direct Power Purchase 
Agreement
Utility green tariﬀJohnson & Johnson is a founding 
member of the Renewable 
Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA), 
an association for large-scale 
energy buyers working toward the 
creation of a resilient, zero-carbon 
energy system across the United 
States.Johnson & Johnson supported 
climate action as a signatory 
of the America Is All In pledge, 
launched in 2020 on the five-year 
anniversary of the Paris Climate 
Agreement as a call to action 
for the incoming Biden-Harris 
Administration to support  
national mobilization on climate 
and recovery.  Globally, our on-site clean/renewable energy 
technology capacity in 2020 was  61.4 MW .
On-site Clean/Renewable Energy Capacity, by Type
37%25%3%2%
1%
32%Solar PV
Co-generation
Wind
BiomassGeothermal
Fuel cellsRenewable Electricity Use Across Regions*
Global: 54%‡ 
Europe: 82%‡ 
North America: 72%‡
* Percentage of electricity used by Johnson & Johnson that is generated from renewable sources. Europe includes Belgium, 
France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland. North America includes  
United States and Canada only.
‡ Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statement by ERM CVS.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
81In 2020, we made progress in achieving energy 
efficiency and GHG emission reductions. Examples 
include:
Green electricity:  In 2020, we signed a green tariff 
electricity contract for our operations in the Philippines, 
which went into effect in October 2020. Through this 
contract, our electricity supplier matches Johnson & 
Johnson’s electricity consumption from the grid with 
renewable electricity produced or purchased from 
renewable sources within the same market. This follows 
our signature of renewable Power Purchase Agreements 
(PPAs) in 2019 for our operations in Belgium, Ireland, 
Mexico and the Netherlands, as well as green tariff 
electricity contracts in Germany, Greece and Japan,  
all of which took effect in 2019 or early 2020.
Capital expenditure for energy efficiency:  Energy 
efficiency programs at our most energy-intensive 
manufacturing and R&D sites are allocated up to  
$40 million per year in capital relief through our 
CO2 Capital Relief Program, for energy projects that 
demonstrate potential CO2 savings and a financial  
return of at least 15%.
Geothermal energy expansion:  We continue to expand 
our use of geothermal energy to provide substantial 
reductions in GHG emissions. In Belgium, we completed 
drilling of two geothermal energy wells at our Janssen 
Beerse campus. When completed, it is anticipated 
that the renewable sourced hot water will significantly 
reduce the site’s CO2 emissions. At our Ethicon campus 
in Cincinnati, U.S., we commenced installation of a closed-loop, geothermal system to provide heating and 
cooling for half of the campus, with the capacity to serve 
the entire 45-acre campus in the future. The geothermal 
system replaces two large natural gas steam boilers, 
saves millions of gallons of water per year and reduces 
natural gas consumption and corresponding GHG 
emissions significantly.
Solar energy expansion:  We installed a solar 
photovoltaic power system capable of generating  
2,000 MWh per year at the São José dos Campos 
Campus in Brazil. This is Johnson & Johnson's first 
photovoltaic system in South America. At Janssen's 
facility in Xi’an, China, we completed a 1 MW carport 
plus ground mount solar installation where the solar 
panels also serve as a covered roof for parked employee 
vehicles and include charging stations for electric 
bicycles.
Green building: We continue to pursue LEED 
(Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design) 
certification across our facilities. For example, in 2020, 
we received LEED Gold certification for our laboratory 
building on our Beerse, Belgium campus, making it 
the first LEED Gold-certified analytical laboratory 
in Belgium. Additionally, we achieved LEED Gold 
certification for two facilities in China, a manufacturing 
site for medical devices in Suzhou and a state-of-the-art 
pharmaceuticals plant in Xi’an. Environmental features 
of these sites include local plants for landscaping, 
reserved parking spaces for low-emitting vehicles and 
dimmable lighting fixtures in meeting and training rooms 
to minimize energy consumption.CO2 Capital Relief Program 
Overview (2005 – 2020)*  
280 projects  approved
241 projects  completed
$445 million  total spent on completed 
projects
$83 million  annual energy cost savings
2,345 TJ  annual energy savings
298,905 MT CO2 annual GHG 
emissions avoided 
* Results from completed projects. Based on fuel and 
electricity reduction calculations. Avoidance of energy 
consumption and GHG emissions calculated by compar -
ing energy consumption before project implementation 
and expected consumption after implementation using 
engineering estimates at the time the projects are 
approved.
Our LEED Gold-certified Xi’an, China, Janssen facility with a 1 MW 
solar array installed in 2020.For the third consecutive 
year, Johnson & Johnson 
was recognized with  
a CDP A List rating for 
our leadership in climate 
action.
6 Johnson & Johnson buildings were newly 
LEED-certified in 2020 , bringing the total 
number of LEED-certified buildings to 60.  
In total, 8.7 million square feet—or 14.5%  
of our built space—was LEED-certified by 
the end of the year. 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
82In 2020, Johnson & Johnson received  
the EPA SmartWay Excellence Award  for 
outstanding environmental performance  
and climate-efficient transportation.
More than 99% of Johnson & Johnson  
freight in North America is transported with 
SmartWay-registered carriers with a strong 
record of fuel efficiency and GHG reduction.Energy Use 1
2020 2019 2018
Total energy use (TJ) 11,954 12,702 13,208
From renewable sources 3,483 2,118 2,246
From non-renewable sources 8,471 10,584 10,962
Energy intensity ratio (TJ/ billion USD)2 145 155 162
Percentage change in energy intensity compared  
to 2010 baseline (TJ/ billion USD)2(33)% (29)% (24)%Purchased Energy Use by Type (TJ)1
2020 2019 2018
Electricity 5,922 6,421 6,583
Natural gas 4,412 4,808 5,020
Diesel 613 465 592
Direct heating  / cooling 265 274 180
Propane 53 51 90
Biogas 28 26 28
Fuel oil 13 15 15
Total purchased energy 11,306 12,059 12,507
On-Site Generated Energy Use by Type (TJ)1
2020 2019 2018
Co-generation 418 439 525
Wind 129 97 78
Solar PV 73 78 56
Geothermal 18 6 18
Fuel cell 7 22 23
Biomass 2 2 2
Total on-site generated energy 647 643 701
1 Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson owned and leased sites over 50,000 square feet where Johnson & Johnson has operational control, as well as manufacturing and R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise noted.
2 Our diverse product portfolio makes it difficult to track an organization-specific metric; therefore we use revenue as a denominator for energy intensity. Energy intensity ratio includes electricity, stationary fuels, and district heating and cooling.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
83‡  Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statement by ERM CVS .
+  See ERM CVS's independent assurance statements in 2019 and 2018 Health for Humanity Reports.
1 Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson owned and leased sites over 50,000 square feet where Johnson & Johnson  
has operational control, as well as manufacturing and R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise noted.
3 In accordance with guidance from World Resources Institute Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, we restated the 2018  
and 2019 values to reflect newly released electricity grid emission factors as well as addition or removal of acquisitions and divestitures.  
This threshold for restatement deviates from the one included in the About this Report section. We do not currently use purchases, sales 
or transfers of offsets in our GHG accounting. Gases covered in these calculations include CO2, CH4, N2O, and HFCs. Perfluorinated 
chemicals, sulfur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride do not result from our operations. Biogenic CO2 Emissions in 2020 were 1,565 
MT CO2. Electricity emission factors are obtained from the International Energy Agency’s CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Report 
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's eGRID publication for location-based Scope 2 reporting, and from supply contracts and 
residual emission factors, where available, for market-based Scope 2 reporting. Fuel emission factors are obtained from the EPA Climate 
Leadership publication. Global Warming Potentials are obtained from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment 
Report. The chosen consolidation approach for emissions is operational control.
4 We did not report Scope 2 emissions using the market-based method prior to 2017. Starting from 2017, we have reported Scope 2 
emissions using both location-based and market-based methods, based on the latest Scope 2 guidance from the World Resources 
Institute in the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
5 Emissions were calculated using Company spend in the reporting year paired with appropriate economic input/output (IO) emission 
factors from the Carnegie Mellon 2002 dataset. Where more specific primary data were able to be obtained, they were used in place  
of the IO calculation methodology.
6 Business travel emissions from personal vehicle travel reflect CO2 only.
7 Data from a 2019 survey of a sample of employees in all regions, extrapolated for all employees globally, were used to estimate average 
employee commuting emissions intensity per employee. This value, in conjunction with representative 2020 occupancy data estimates, 
was used to calculate emissions from Employee Commuting. It should be noted that due to the assumptions that were made, Johnson  & 
Johnson did not receive third-party limited assurance for this scope, but will work to improve these assumptions in the coming years.
8 Emissions from fuel- and energy-related activities were calculated for emissions from transmission and distribution (T&D) losses from 
purchased electricity, well-to-tank (WTT) emissions from purchased electricity,  WTT emissions from T&D losses, and WTT emissions 
from purchased fuels. Emissions were calculated using IEA loss factors for electricity and DEFRA WTT emission factors for fuels and 
electricity. Due to an update in calculation methodology, 2018 and 2019 figures are restated.
9 Emissions from Upstream Leased Assets were calculated by applying the energy intensity from office locations in our Scope 1 and 
2 footprint to the building area of leased assets less than 50,000 SqFt, or those greater than 50,000 SqFt outside of our operational 
control which are excluded from Scope 1 and 2 reporting.
10 Emissions from Waste Generated in Operations were calculated for both non-hazardous and hazardous waste from manufacturing  
and R&D operations using DEFRA's emissions factors for waste. Previously, only non-hazardous waste emissions were reported.
11 Emissions from Downstream Transportation and Distribution were calculated using the U.S. EPA’s SmartWay Program, and are provided 
for U.S. shippers only. Greenhouse gases covered in these calculations include CO2 only for the 2019 calendar year, the most up-to-date 
available, and 2020 data will be available in December of 2021. We have identified a level of uncertainty around the reporting boundary, 
and the reported value is potentially overstated. 
12 Emissions from the Use of Sold Products and the End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products were calculated using sales volumes for all 
Johnson & Johnson products combined with lifecycle assessment (LCA) models where sales volumes could be obtained; where they 
could not be obtained, sales revenues and average unit prices were used to estimate volumes. Due to the size of our product portfolio, 
LCAs were not performed for every Johnson & Johnson product, so products were placed into LCA categories and a representative 
product LCA was applied. It should be noted that due to the assumptions that were made, Johnson & Johnson did not receive third-
party limited assurance for these scopes, but will work to improve these assumptions in the coming years.
13 Emissions from the Processing of Sold Products, Downstream Leased Assets, Franchises, and Investments are not applicable to  
Johnson & Johnson operations.
14 Greenhouse gases covered in these calculations include CO2 only.
15 Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson manufacturing and R&D sites only.Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
2020 2019 2018
Scope 1 GHG emissions, total (MT CO2e)3 363,924‡415,094+452,407+
Scope 1 GHG emissions, by source (MT CO2e)3
Facilities1 269,329 278,717 308,200
Sales fleet14 76,720 114,681 122,194
Refrigerants15 14,139 12,979 12,298
Aviation 3,736 8,717 9,715
Scope 2 GHG emissions, facilities (MT CO2e)1, 3
Location-based 641,489‡648,598+681,416+
Market-based4 383,745‡518,542+583,361+
Scope 3 GHG emissions, by source (MT CO2e)3, 13
Purchased goods and services6 9,437,330‡9,229,943+8,826,462+
Upstream transportation and distribution6 2,043,109‡2,201,590+2,039,872+
Business travel5,6 303,249‡601,637+768,392+
Employee commuting7 131,128 267,881 351,260
Capital goods5 271,206‡281,092+271,422+
Fuel- and energy-related activities8 183,087‡190,386+203,498+
Upstream leased assets9 28,969‡39,830+39,981+
Waste generated in operations10 8,065‡3,618+3,702+
Downstream transportation and distribution11 Available 
12/202158,184+65,447+
Use of sold products12
Direct 108,165 168,612 78,051
Indirect 7,635,771 7,248,612 6,894,347
End of life treatment of sold products12 223,038 209,994 222,404
GHG emissions intensity ratio (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
per revenue (MT CO2e/million USD)9 12 13
Percentage decrease in GHG emissions intensity  
(Scope 1 and Scope 2) per revenue compared to  
2010 baseline (MT CO2e /million USD)59% 46% 43%
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
84Air Emissions by Category
2020 2019 2018
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions (MT) 34.62 39.98 30.25
Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions (MT) 366.08 394.07 414.05
Particulate matter (PM) emissions (MT) 89.20 116.56 247.14
Refrigerant emissions (MT) 9.58 8.01 7.85
Ozone depleting substances emissions (MT) 1.86 1.11 1.53
Sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions (MT) 65‡51+64+
Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions (MT)* 45‡35+46+
‡ Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statement by ERM CVS .
+ See ERM CVS's independent assurance statements in 2019 and 2018 Health for Humanity Reports.
* Due to a unit conversion error, 2018 and 2019 figures are restated. The previous emissions data in 2018 and 2019 
Health for Humanity Reports were historically assured and the restatement calculations have been reviewed as part 
of this year’s assurance engagement.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
85Water & Waste Management
GRI 303-3, 303-4, 303-5, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5, SASB: CG-HP-140a.1; CG-HP-140a.2
We continue to advance initiatives across all our facilities and throughout our supply 
chain to systematically minimize our impacts on the planet through responsible use of 
water, avoidance of waste and reduction of waste to landfill. See also our Position on  
Water and Waste Management . 
Examples of progress at our facilities in 2020 include:
Water risk assessment: We completed a comprehensive water risk assessment at 
100% of manufacturing and R&D locations in 2019. By the end of 2020, 100% of all 
high-risk sites identified developed mitigation plans, 61% completed their action plans 
and remaining sites have ongoing mitigation plans with budget assigned for completion 
in 2021.
Water purification in Thailand:  At our Johnson & Johnson Thailand facility, our 
team made a focused effort to reduce purified water consumption by implementing 
improvements such as downsizing the hosing that cleans production equipment, 
improving the efficiency of the equipment cleaning process and optimizing hot water 
consumption in stainless steel mobile storage tanks. This “fit for purpose” cleaning 
approach delivered significant water savings and reduced energy consumption for 
water heating.  Reuse of solvents:  At our facility in Geel, Belgium, we have adopted a process to  
make our solvents reusable through distillation. Our detailed analysis of around 20 
regularly used solvents shows that distillation in an open- or closed-loop cycle—
whether conducted at our site or via external partners—delivers significant solvent 
saving and an overall reduction in GHG emissions. In this way, in 2020, we distilled 
more than 1.5 million liters of solvent, thereby avoiding more than 14,800 metric tons  
of CO2e emissions.
Plastic waste reduction:  At Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health Shanghai, our team 
found opportunities to make improvements, not only improving the process to reduce 
waste plastic generation, but also to recycle and/or reuse those plastics as some form 
of raw material to produce other products. Since then, the site has deployed a robust 
environmental sustainability strategy and implemented a series of programs that have 
reduced 52.5 tons of plastic materials and have saved 47 tons of plastic waste from 
incineration by diverting them to recycling streams instead.Over the past three years, we decreased non-
hazardous waste disposed to landfills from 15,356 
metric tons in 2017 to 7,860 metric tons in 2020.
For the second year in a row, 
Johnson & Johnson was recognized 
with a CDP A List rating for Water 
Security.
Our Geel, Belgium, site.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
86Water Discharge by Destination (million m 3)
2020 2019 2018
Wastewater treatment plant 5.12 5.46 5.21
Surface water 2.00 2.12 2.11
Irrigation 0.19 0.19 0.19
Other 0.07 0.06 0.10
Ocean 0.18 0.12 0.08
Total water discharge 7.56 7.95 7.69Operational Waste (MT)
2020 2019 2018
Total waste generated 183,034 195,272 194,442
Hazardous waste 53,944 53,425 52,672
Non-hazardous waste 129,090 141,848 141,770
Non-Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT)
2020 2019 2018
Recycled 82,184 83,118 79,827
Energy recovery 17,969 20,793 22,356
Landfilled 7,860 12,512 13,878
Reused 13,271 13,282 12,796
Bio/chemical treatment 4,948 9,192 8,704
Incinerated 2,799 2,923 4,167
Other 59 28 42
Total non-hazardous waste 129,090 141,848 141,770
Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT)
2020 2019 2018
Recycled 22,813 25,897 24,652
Energy recovery 19,836 16,684 16,374
Landfilled 2,533 3,449 3,462
Incinerated 4,824 3,373 2,953
Reused 2,234 1,756 2,758
Bio/chemical treatment 1,599 2,181 2,372
Other 104 86 101
Total hazardous waste 53,944 53,425 52,672Water Use Summary
2020 2019 2018
Total water withdrawn (million m3) 11.09 11.71 11.64
Total water consumed (million m3) 4.28 4.57 Not reported
Total water recycled and reused (million m3) 0.75 0.81 0.84
Total water discharge (million m3) 7.56 7.95 7.69
Percentage of water withdrawn in regions of high or 
extremely high baseline water stress39% 39% Not reported
Percentage of water consumed in regions of high or 
extremely high baseline water stress50% 48% Not reported
Water Withdrawn by Source (million m3)
2020 2019 2018
Municipal 7.72 8.68 8.21
Groundwater 3.08 2.85 3.26
Greywater 0.15 0.06 0.06
Other 0.06 0.07 0.06
Rainwater 0.06 0.03 0.04
Surface water 0.02 0.02 0.02
Total water use 11.09 11.71 11.64
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
87Product Sustainability
GRI 302-5, J&J20-12, SASB HC-MS-410a.1,  
SASB HC-MS-410a.2, SASB CG-HP-410a.2
We are committed to developing more sustainable 
products that contribute to a healthier planet. 
Our approach is based on science and a lifecycle 
accountability for product impacts, from discovery 
and design, raw material sourcing and manufacturing 
to product use and end of life. See also our Position on  
Sustainable Products and Packaging .
Examples of products with sustainability improvements 
in 2020 include:
NEUTROGENA Skin Balancing Cleanser Line:  
A new product range in the United States that includes 
a cleansing wipe made with plant-based, home 
compostable fibers and facial cleansers sold in bottles 
made of 30% post-consumer recycled material.VISTASEAL: VISTASEAL Fibrin Sealant for surgical use 
was relaunched with an innovative shipping method that 
enables the product to remain frozen during transport in 
a reusable container. Compared to the previous shipping 
method, the new packaging reduces GHG emissions by 
75% and post-consumer waste by 95%.
Lifecycle Assessment with EARTHWARDS
Since 2009, EARTHWARDS has been our approach for 
guiding the development of more sustainable products. 
We use the EARTHWARDS approach to drive continuous 
sustainable improvement by ensuring that new products 
meet specific product stewardship requirements and 
helping product teams to understand the product 
category's lifecycle impact areas. In 2020, we 
continued to make further progress with EARTHWARDS 
recognitions:Green Chemistry
Janssen continues to integrate principles of green 
chemistry and engineering to develop our medicines. 
For example, our R&D team collaborated with a supplier 
to create a more efficient chemistry process to develop 
an ingredient in a treatment for major depressive 
disorder, which reduced raw materials by close to half. 
In another example, our R&D team applied continuous 
forward processing principles to reduce the synthesis 
process for an ingredient in a cardiovascular treatment. 
The approach reduced the amount of energy and raw 
materials required, and reduced waste, while increasing 
the yield of ingredient produced.
Our Janssen R&D team also collaborated with suppliers 
to adopt green chemistry and engineering principles 
to make a prescription medicine used with other 
antiretroviral medicines to treat HIV-1 infection in adults. 
By adopting a novel continuous catalytic process to 
create a component in the final product, our suppliers 
were able to improve raw material and hazardous 
waste profiles, contributing to decreasing the overall 
environmental footprint of the product.
Sustainable Packaging & Recycling
Packaging plays a critical role in maintaining the quality, 
safety and integrity of our products throughout our 
value chain. In addition to complying with packaging 
regulations in the countries where our products are sold, 
we are proactive about increasing recycled content of 
our packaging and improving its recyclability. 
In 2020, our Consumer Health business announced its 
Healthy Lives Mission , an $800 million sustainability 
investment over 10 years that includes goals to reduce 
packaging waste. In 2020, we made progress to 
reduce the impact of plastic packaging in several areas, 
including:  
• Began several projects to replace carbon black 
plastic bottles across our Consumer Health portfolio, 
including changing OGX Purifying+Charcoal Detox 
Shampoo and Conditioner bottles from black to clear, 
which reduces the brand's output of non-recyclable 
plastic in North America by more than 120,000 
pounds. 6 new products achieved 
EARTHWARDS recognition in 
2020.
68 EARTHWARDS-recognized 
products* resulted in annual 
impact reductions** as follows:
• Material reduced: 19,255 MT
• Water saved: 368,507 liters
• Waste reduced: 125 MT
• GHG emissions avoided:  
38,906 MT CO2e
 * Products recognized between 2009 – 2020; excludes products that 
are no longer EARTHWARDS-recognized due to discontinuations, 
divestitures or changes to the product.
** Savings are for products recognized through the end of 2020 and 
are estimated based on best available methodologies for each 
impact reduction area; select products are not included in savings 
estimation because of lack of detailed data.
The full NEUTROGENA Skin Balancing Cleanser line
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
88• Continued actions to address two remaining PVC  
rigid plastic containers by transitioning away from a 
PVC tray in Latin America and replacing a PVC bottle 
in Asia. 
• Launched four new refill at-home shower gels in 
Europe through our LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS brand 
to minimize packaging waste, and actively advanced 
several options for additional products such as adult 
and baby body washes and lotions in different markets 
for launch in the coming years. 
• Began removing pumps from JOHNSON’S Baby 
lotions and washes in smaller sizes in several markets, 
replacing them with a flip-top cap, avoiding millions of 
non-recyclable pumps being routed to landfill. 
• Implemented a new process to produce a plastic 
film for packaging that includes 30% post-consumer 
recycled waste for STAYFREE in Brazil.
Examples of recycling and packaging solutions from our 
Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices segments include:
• Launched an innovative recycling project for 
ETHICON single-use surgical instruments in 
Germany, enabling recycling of their metal and 
plastic components while digitally capturing and 
communicating the environmental impact made. 
• Developed new Pulp Injection Molding tray packaging 
platform, image below, that will eliminate the use of 
plastic trays as part of our pharmaceutical combination 
product portfolio.Partnerships for circularity: In 2020, we continued to 
engage with partners on projects that advance a circular 
economy, for example:
• The Recycling Partnership's Film & Flexibles 
Coalition: Industry-wide collaborative to identify ways 
to collect more flexible packaging in the United States. 
• Stina Tubes CORE Project: Partnership to advance the 
recycling of plastic squeeze tube packaging in North 
America and Europe.
• A*STAR Institute of Materials Research and 
Engineering Circular Materials Lab: Collaboration to 
identify circular flexible film packaging solutions. 
• We continue our partnership with the Healthcare 
Plastics Recycling Council  and the Sustainable 
Healthcare Coalition , collaborating with industry 
leaders to increase healthcare recycling, reduce waste, 
and elevate sustainability in global health systems. 
• We extended our original investment in the Closed 
Loop Infrastructure Fund for an additional five years 
to continue to build the recycling infrastructure in 
North America and spur technological innovation 
toward a more circular economy.
Products in the Environment
We recognize that the products we create to help 
patients, doctors and consumers can have environmental 
impacts after use. We assess the end-of-life impacts of 
our products and develop category-specific action plans 
to improve performance over time. See our Position on  
Impact of Pharmaceuticals and Personal Care Products  
in the Environment .
Pharmaceutical Products:  We continue to advance 
our progress in understanding and reducing the impact 
of pharmaceuticals in the environment. As an active 
and founding member of the Antimicrobial Resistance 
Industry Alliance, we continue to collaborate across the 
industry to address AMR . For more information on our 
approach to AMR, see our Position on Antimicrobial  
Resistance . We are also expanding our pharmaceutical products packaging and device take-back programs 
in different markets. For example, we expanded 
the Janssen SAFE RETURNS Program for home-
administered immunology products in the United States 
and collaborated on pharmaceutical disposal options as 
members of the Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship 
Work Group.
Medical Devices:  The Johnson & Johnson Medical 
Devices Companies (JJMDC) are committed to 
helping health systems reduce expenses and decrease 
environmental impact while meeting or exceeding 
original equipment manufacturing medical device 
functional requirements. Offering reprocessed single-
use devices manufactured by Sterilmed, Inc., a part of 
the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, is one way 
in which we fulfill this commitment. 
As a leading provider of reprocessing services,20 in 
addition to reprocessing devices originally manufactured 
by members of the JJMDC , we also offer reprocessed 
products from the other original manufacturers, which 
gives customers more options to meet their needs.1.60 million  
medical devices collected and
0.67 million  
reprocessed in 2020*
* Compared to 2019 results, device collections reduced because  
of COVID-19’s impact on reducing surgical activity.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
89Responsible Supply Base
GRI 102-9, 204-1, 205-2, SASB HC-MS-430a.3
Our extended supply chain comprises more than 51,000 suppliers across our three 
business segments, serving our 90 manufacturing facilities and distribution operations 
in virtually all countries of the world. 
A critically important link in our value chain, Johnson & Johnson’s supplier network 
underpins our business continuity, expands our capabilities and innovation and enables 
our ability to serve our patients, consumers and customers and their need for our 
essential products and services. We aim to maintain collaborative and trusting supplier 
relationships and encourage a broad diversity of suppliers to work with us. We aim  
to ensure our supplier base operates in line with Our Credo  values, in compliance 
with laws and regulations and in support of our Health for Humanity Goals. We do this 
through our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers , our Supplier Sustainability Program 
(SSP)21 and Global Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Program. For more information, see 
our Position on Responsible Supply Base  and our Position on Business Continuity  
Management .
In 2020, as part of our multiyear Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, we made progress  
in advancing our responsible supply base. We have now established challenging goals 
to drive further impact across our supplier base.51,000+
suppliers globally$30.6 
billion total supplier 
spend*
2025 Goals
Supplier Sustainability Program
By 2025, expand the Johnson & Johnson Supplier 
Sustainability Program to include all suppliers; monitoring, 
engaging, collaborating on our joint environmental, social 
and ethical obligations. 
Partnerships for Good
By 2025, establish 10 supplier Partnerships for Good,  
collaborating with our suppliers to create innovative solutions  
that drive environmental, social and economic improvements. 
For full details of these Goals and KPIs, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
* Represents spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as products and services that procurement teams  
can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.53%3%
11%
33%34%
24%12%
30%Supplier Spend* Contracted 
by Business SegmentSupplier Spend* Contracted 
by Region
Consumer HealthPharmaceutical
CorporateMedical Devices
EMEANorth America
Latin AmericaAsia Paci/f_ic53%3%
11%
33%34%
24%12%
30%Supplier Spend* Contracted 
by Business SegmentSupplier Spend* Contracted 
by Region
Consumer HealthPharmaceutical
CorporateMedical Devices
EMEANorth America
Latin AmericaAsia Paci/f_ic
In this section, we share our progress  
in 2020 in the following areas:
Supplier Engagement
Supplier Diversity
Responsible Sourcing
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
90Supplier Engagement
GRI 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 412-1, 414-1
We encourage and invite suppliers to enroll in our 
Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP) which requires, 
among other things, suppliers to complete an 
assessment by EcoVadis, a recognized provider of 
business sustainability ratings for global supply chains. 
We aim to partner more extensively with our suppliers 
to help them deliver measurable improvements and 
significant impacts over the next five years and beyond.
Our Sustainable Procurement Council, comprised 
of procurement category managers across all our 
procurement categories, manages the ongoing outreach 
to suppliers in the SSP. This intensive annual program 
includes monthly meetings to discuss our progress in 
enrolling suppliers in the SSP and engaging them to 
disclose to EcoVadis and CDP, with a more recent focus 
on going beyond disclosure to improve performance and 
impact. The program kicks off each year with a meeting 
with suppliers in partnership with EcoVadis and CDP, in 
which we provide context for our SSP, explain elements of the program and our goals, and define actions we 
request suppliers to undertake. In 2020, our virtual 
meetings were held in English and Mandarin.
As part of our own commitment to the CDP Supply 
Chain program, we encourage our suppliers to 
be transparent about their supply chain impacts 
and publicly disclose to CDP their environmental 
performance, including GHG emissions and water use.
The strong participation of our 
suppliers earned recognition for 
Johnson & Johnson in 2020 as we 
were again named to the CDP Supplier 
Engagement leader board. We were 
the first healthcare company to achieve 
this recognition in 2017 and remain the 
only healthcare company on this list for 
four consecutive years. Furthermore—
and of greater importance—this 
progress reflects our consistent focus on improving the 
sustainability of our supply chain for our communities 
and our planet, as well as the value-creating partnerships 
that benefit the resilience of our collective business. Since the inception of the SSP  
in 2015, the number of suppliers 
enrolled in the program has 
increased from approximately 
100 to over 1,100 . Our spend 
with SSP suppliers has 
increased from 40% of our 
spend  in 2016 to over 73%  
of our spend in 2020.
Our analysis shows that,  
with each year of our 
engagement with EcoVadis, 
suppliers are progressively 
improving performance 
and moving from high-risk 
categorization to low-risk.Johnson & Johnson was one of two recipients of the EcoVadis 2021 
Sustainable Procurement Leadership Awards in the Best Value Chain 
Engagement category. The award acknowledges excellence in engaging 
trading partners in sustainability initiatives and honors best-in-class 
examples of driving internal engagement to roll out global supplier 
sustainability programs. The award was based on EcoVadis’ assessment  
of our performance in 2020.
CDP engagement in 2020  
423 of our suppliers  were invited to 
participate in the CDP Supply Chain 
Climate Program, an increase of 23%  
over 2019. Over 80% of these suppliers  
disclosed emissions data. 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
91Education and resources for suppliers:  In partnership 
with EcoVadis and CDP, we delivered inaugural, year-end 
educational webinars to review the progress of our SSP 
and supplier performance and share our progress toward 
our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals . We also shared 
new tools, for example, the Johnson & Johnson CDP 
Climate and Water maturity ladder we created with CDP 
to guide suppliers on their CDP disclosure journey from 
beginner to leader.Improving supply chain resilience:  We rely on the 
resilience of our global supply chains to help ensure 
patients, providers and consumers have access to 
medical goods, including during major public health 
threats. During 2020, we worked closely across our 
supply base to engage, assist and support suppliers as 
they partnered with us to maintain their own operations 
and supply essential products during the COVID-19 
pandemic. For more information, see the section 
COVID-19: Supply Chain Resilience .  
Engaging suppliers to improve impacts:  In 2020, 
we undertook to improve the environmental impacts 
generated through our external manufacturing supply 
chain by engaging widely across the Asia Pacific region 
with more than 150 external supply sites. We assessed 
several dimensions of Environmental Health and 
Safety (EH&S) performance, including process safety 
management, industrial hygiene, occupational health 
and workplace safety, and several risk assessment 
topics related to various environmental impacts, working 
within the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)  
framework. We offered specialist training for suppliers 
in several of these areas. Our initial assessment showed 
that most of the suppliers participating in the assessment 
program could demonstrate improvement in at least one 
area of EH&S  performance, and were eager to continue 
to learn, apply best practice and improve their overall 
impacts.Auditing supplier compliance: We verify and monitor 
supplier compliance with laws and regulations, and 
with our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers , through 
formal assessment and audits. Our EH&S audit program, 
which has been in place since 2006, is conducted using 
the audit protocol and checklist developed by the PSCI. 
Our social audits program is conducted in accordance 
with SMETA 4 guidelines and with a focus on human 
rights. 
In 2020, we completed 104 EH&S audits, the majority 
in Asia, and five social audits. Our audit programs were 
affected by COVID-19, mostly due to travel restrictions, 
minimizing on-site workforces and limited resources at 
suppliers to support audits. Toward the middle of 2020, 
both programs began to complete virtual audits using 
video and other online tools. By year-end, more than 
half of our EH&S audits had been completed remotely 
and our social audits were rolled into our expanded 
Supplier Sustainability Program as part of our EcoVadis 
assessments.    Tessy saw the Supplier 
Sustainability Program from 
Johnson & Johnson as a great 
opportunity for our company 
to improve our sustainability 
practices. After years of 
collaborating with Johnson & 
Johnson and participating in  
the program, I am excited to 
see our achievements and 
Tessy’s efforts in leading our 
supply base into this space. 
Roland Beck , Owner & President, Tessy 
Plastics, Johnson & Johnson supplier “
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
92Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP)
2020 2019 2018
Spend with suppliers enrolled in SSP (billions)* $18.9 $17.1 $16.3
Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to 
suppliers enrolled in SSP74% 71% 61%
Number of suppliers newly enrolled in SSP, annual 328 279 139
Number of suppliers enrolled in SSP, cumulative since the 
program launch (2015 )1,107 779 500
Suppliers invited to participate in CDP Supply Chain 
Climate program423 344 305
Percentage participated 80% 84% 90%
Suppliers invited to participate the CDP Supply Chain 
Water program153 112 108
Percentage participated 79% 84% 88%
Supplier EcoVadis Audits
2020 2019 2018
EcoVadis assessments completed 1,119 750 542
Supplier risk ranking based on EcoVadis assessments
Low-risk 729 462 323
Medium-risk 349 259 195
High-risk 41 29 24Supplier Social Audits
2020 2019 2018
Supplier social audits completed, total 5 50 11
Completed using SMETA 4 -pillar protocol 5 37 9
Completed using PSCI protocol 0 13 2
Social audits completed, by region
Asia Pacific 4 37 8
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0 5 1
Latin America 1 6 2
North America 0 2 0
Number of critical findings** identified as a result of 
supplier social audits3 5 0
Supplier EH&S Audits
2020 2019 2018
EH&S audits and technical visits completed, total 156 206 185
EH&S audits 104 134 101
Technical visits*** 52 72 84
Audits and technical visits, by region
Asia Pacific 133 174 155
Europe, Middle East & Africa 13 13 18
Latin America 2 7 5
North America 8 12 7
Number of suppliers identified as high-risk for non-
conformance to Johnson & Johnson Responsibility 
Standards for Suppliers24 32 23
Number of critical EH&S findings** identified as a result 
of EH&S audits2 34 27
Safety-related findings 2 23 21
Environmental-related findings 0 11 6
   * Represents spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
 ** We define a critical finding as evidence of very high risk to human life or potential catastrophic impact to facility, community or environment. We expect suppliers and potential suppliers to address critical findings immediately. 
*** A technical visit is a follow-up visit to the initial audit. 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
93Supplier Diversity
Maintaining a diverse and inclusive supplier base reflects the way we think about  
our business, our people, our innovation, our markets and our communities. We  
believe our differences are our strength, and our inclusive culture unleashes our 
potential. Our Global Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Program provides a platform 
for proactive outreach to diverse and small suppliers, collaboration with partners 
advancing supplier diversity and guiding suppliers on how to engage with Johnson & 
Johnson. We exceeded our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, which were to achieve 
benchmark spending for Tier 1 and Small Business in the United States, and we 
increased our global footprint from six countries in 2016 to 17 countries in 2020.  
Our global supplier diversity and inclusion goal sets a new ambitious target that will 
galvanize our organization to achieve an even more inclusive supplier network. 
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic placed great strain on our entire supply chain. We 
worked closely across our supplier network where needed to help manage the issues 
suppliers faced in maintaining operations. For more information, see the United in  
Defeating COVID-19  section.
Promoting diverse businesses:  In 2020, we evolved our procurement processes and 
strategy through which we aim to identify, engage with and contract with diverse 
enterprises, and we strengthened our collaborative relationships with key advocacy 
organizations that support diverse businesses.   
Part of this supplier diversity evolution included the launch of strategies focused on 
growing spend and footprint across the Johnson & Johnson Enterprise. They included 
education campaigns, engagement of senior level sponsorship both in and outside 
of procurement, and dedicated teams to develop and execute strategies. Highlights 
include:
• We augmented our longstanding support for Black-owned and African American 
enterprises: 
• In response to the heightened focus on racial justice by Johnson & Johnson, 
we launched a Black-owned business strategy to grow spend with this key 
demographic group. We sponsored the “In This Together” campaign of the 
National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) to support their 
Rebuilding Fund, helping minority businesses recover from the economic 2025 Goals  
 
Global Supplier Diversity and  
Inclusion
By 2025, achieve $4.5 billion Global Impact Spend with small  
and diverse suppliers, representing a 20% increase from 2020. 
 
For full details of this Goal and KPI, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
Guided by Our Credo, we have a 
responsibility to the communities in which 
we live and work. Increasing our diverse 
supplier base—and engaging all suppliers 
on the importance of diversity, equity and 
inclusion—helps us drive social and economic 
inclusion, and reflects the diversity of our 
patients and consumers around the world. 
Kathy Wengel , Executive Vice President  
& Chief Global Supply Chain Officer, Johnson & Johnson“
For the 10th consecutive year, Johnson & Johnson 
maintained membership in the Billion Dollar  
Roundtable , a group of companies that advance 
best practices for supplier diversity, and that spend 
at least $1 billion (Tier 1) annually with certified 
minority-, women-, veteran-, LGBT- and disability-
owned businesses.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
94downturn caused by the pandemic. We also 
earned senior leader representation on the 
national Board of the NMSDC in addition to our 
Board membership at the regional level in New 
York/New Jersey.
• We expanded our alliance with the African American 
Chamber of Commerce of New Jersey, and as a New 
Jersey-based company, we supported its annual 
awards program recognizing accomplished African 
Americans. We also supported the State of Black 
New Jersey 2020 Economic Virtual Summit and an 
educational program for African American- and Black-
owned businesses.
• We continued our focused strategy to grow spend 
with LGBT suppliers by strengthening our relationship 
with the National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of 
Commerce (NGLCC). We supported their “Mentorship 
Protégé” program and the first NGLCC Communities 
of Color Virtual Matchmaking event to help create 
opportunities for suppliers owned by LGBT people of 
color. In addition, we became a founding member of 
the European LGBTIQ Chamber of Commerce. 
• As part of our Veteran-owned business focus, 
we continued our relationship with key advocacy 
organizations, such at the National Veterans Business 
Development Council, for which we were honored to 
receive the Corporation of the Year Award in 2020. 
We also provided sponsorship of the New Jersey 
State Veterans Chamber of Commerce in support of 
their initiative to provide support for small businesses 
impacted by the pandemic. 
• We expanded our partnership with MSDUK and 
sponsored the Global Supplier Diversity Alliance 
(GSDA) Conference. In addition, during 2020, we 
partnered with GSDA members in six markets 
(Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, South Africa and 
the UK) to advance minority business enterprises in 
markets around the world. 
• We continued to serve as a major sponsor and 
corporate member of the Diverse Manufacturing 
Supply Chain Alliance, where we sponsor diverse firms 
to participate in their Supplier Development System.In addition to sponsorships and engagements to drive 
awareness, capabilities and connections for diverse 
businesses, we also maintained and expanded other 
supplier diversity programs, including:
Mentoring women-owned businesses: In 2020,  
we launched the third year of our global Women 
Mentoring Women program with 28 program 
participants comprising 14 certified Women-Owned 
Business Enterprise owners and 14 Johnson & Johnson 
leaders from a range of business functions. For the 
first time since the program's inception in 2017, 50% of 
participating Women-Owned Business Enterprises are 
based outside of the United States, covering all regions 
of the world. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the program 
ran virtually in 2020.  
Expanding our Buy Diverse eMarketplace platform:  
The goal of Buy Diverse, which was piloted on a limited 
basis in the United States during 2018, is to drive 
increased visibility for diverse suppliers in the buying 
platform. In 2020, we expanded the scope of the 
platform to include South Africa and the UK.
Boosting social enterprises:  As one of seven founding 
partners of the Buy Social Corporate Challenge (BSCC)  
in the UK, the flagship program of Social Enterprise UK 
that seeks to promote the use of social enterprises in 
corporate supply chains, we continued taking a lead 
role in advancing this program. Through the efforts 
of partners, in 2020 BSCC achieved the highest level 
of collective spend since its inception among the 24 
participating social enterprise companies. We also 
partnered with Social Supermarket, an online, social 
enterprise marketplace that sells products that have  
a demonstrable social or environmental impact.  Our work with the Social Supermarket not only 
provided our employees access to unique social impact 
products but also allowed suppliers to demonstrate their 
capabilities and access seed funding to enable them to 
scale their enterprises.
Driving supplier diversity in our R&D supply chain: 
Despite the challenges of COVID-19 and its impact on 
our business and our critical suppliers, we were able to 
leverage our existing R&D diverse supplier strategies and 
strong relationships built over decades to support our 
COVID-19 vaccine development, not only maintaining 
critical supplies and services, but simultaneously 
growing R&D’s diverse supplier spend. 
Our engagement with R&D suppliers will also play a 
significant role as we roll out Our Race to Health Equity  
platform that includes partnerships that will advance 
diverse enrollment in clinical trials.Johnson & Johnson was recognized as the winner of the Supplier Diversity 
& Inclusion Category at the 2020 World Procurement Awards for value 
expressed by the business, partnership with peer companies through peer 
ideation events, advocacy partnerships, and our positive impact on the 
economy and job creation.
In 2020, minority-
owned suppliers 
provided over $1.2  billion  
in goods and services to 
Johnson & Johnson.  
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
95Spotlight on PRA Health Sciences
In 2020, one of our primary Contract Research Organizations, PRA 
Health Sciences, expanded its own diversity, equality and inclusion 
program, focusing on people, patients, partners, and community with 
initiatives that are important for Johnson & Johnson and also critical 
for our industry which employs and engages many frontline workers. 
Elements of PRA’s progress include:
• Greater focus on hiring diversity, including engagement  
with Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs),  
with military veterans and those with differing learning abilities;
• Increased participation in women’s mentoring and leadership 
programs;
• Global conscious and unconscious bias training for all employees; and 
• Expansion of their Employee Resource Groups, including one 
for nurses, to help them connect with one another, support local 
communities and engage in innovation initiatives. Supplier Diversity Spend*
2020 2019 2018
Diverse supplier spend in the U.S. (billions) $1.7 $1.6 $1.4
Diverse supplier spend in countries outside the U.S. 
(billions)$0.29 Not Reported Not Reported
Small business spend in the U.S. (billions) $2.7 $2.6 $2.8
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender supplier spend  
in the U.S. (millions)$4.5 $3.7 $2.0
Veteran- and disabled veteran-owned supplier spend  
in the U.S. (millions)$193.2 $169.6 $139.0
Women-owned supplier spend, global (millions) $826.0 Not Reported Not Reported
Minority-owned supplier spend, global (millions) $1,223.4 Not Reported Not Reported
Tier 2 diverse supplier spend, global (millions) $372.1 Not Reported Not Reported
* Except Tier 2 diverse spend, all indicators represent spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as products and 
services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
96Responsible Sourcing
SASB HC-MS-430a.3
Across our business, we source several commodities 
and raw materials in multiple categories. Some of these 
require heightened procurement focus due to critical 
environmental or biodiversity concerns or elevated 
human rights risks in the supply chain. Beyond our 
overall sustainable sourcing framework that applies to all 
the materials and goods we purchase, as encompassed 
in our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers , we 
collaborate with partners to understand the potential 
risks and impacts of our procurement activities and to 
define appropriate standards and controls in responsible 
sourcing of commodities and materials of concern.
In 2020, we scored A- for 
palm oil disclosures and B 
for timber disclosures in 
the CDP Forests Program, 
representing progress since 
our first submissions for 
2018, in which we scored  
C across both categories. 
We are one of 687 
companies worldwide that 
disclose to this important 
CDP framework addressing 
deforestation impacts.Conflict Minerals
As members of the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative and in line with 
regulatory requirements, we remain 
committed to taking steps to determine 
the use, country of origin and source of 
conflict minerals in our global product 
portfolio.Palm Oil
We implement our sourcing 
criteria with our top suppliers by 
volume, building transparency 
and monitoring non-conformance 
as part of our partnership with 
Earthworm Foundation.
See our positions and updates 
relating to responsible sourcing  
of key commodities or materials 
of concern:Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing Policy
Responsible Wood-Fiber Product Sourcing Policy
Position on Respecting Biodiversity
Position on Conflict Minerals
Annual Conflict Minerals ReportForest Partnerships
We maintain two multiyear forest 
partnerships with the World Wildlife 
Fund in Sabah, Malaysia, and Sumatra, 
Indonesia, to enable the protection of 
tropical rain forests that are critical for 
climate mitigation, wildlife conservation, 
and long-term community well-being.Wood-Fiber Products
We partner with Rainforest Alliance 
to implement our wood-fiber product 
sourcing criteria, leveraging technology 
to enhance the accuracy and efficiency 
of our sourcing assessments of these 
products.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
97Health for Humanity Report covers from the past three years. 
Photo credits: 2019 cover photos (TOP) by Rwanda Ministry of Health; 2018 cover photo (BOTTOM LEFT)  
by Jonathan Burton; and 2017 cover photo (BOTTOM RIGHT) by Susan Warner for Save the Children.Reporting Hub
Downloads:
ESG Summary
Performance Data
GRI Content Index
GRI Culture of Health for Business Framework
SASB Index
TCFD
UNGC Communication on Progress
CDP Climate Change 2020
CDP Water Security 2020
2019 Health for Humanity Report
Progress in Sustainability
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
98About this Report
GRI 102-10, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50,102-51, 102-52, 
102-53, 102-54, 102-56
Johnson & Johnson’s 2020 Health for Humanity Report 
(the Report) details our progress in sustainability. 
It is also our primary source of annual disclosure 
on environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
performance and should be reviewed in conjunction  
with disclosures on the ESG Policies & Positions  page. 
Data in this Report cover the period between January 
1, 2020, and December 31, 2020, unless otherwise 
indicated. Reporting on other matters specific 
to financial performance of the Company and its 
subsidiaries can be found in our 2020 Annual Report .
This Report covers Johnson & Johnson’s worldwide 
operations across our three business segments: 
Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and Consumer  
Health. For select metrics, we report segment-level  
data. Contract manufacturers are excluded from the 
scope of this Report, unless otherwise noted. References 
in this Report to “Johnson & Johnson,” the “Company,” 
“we,” “us” and “our” and all similar references are to 
Johnson & Johnson and its consolidated subsidiaries, 
unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise 
requires.
The Report has been prepared in accordance with 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core 
option. New this year, we report our performance 
against GRI’s new framework, the Culture of Health for 
Business (COH4B) practices and metrics. The Report 
also includes the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) Index, providing disclosures against 
relevant SASB Standards, and our first qualitative Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
disclosure, building on our responses to the CDP 
climate questionnaire in previous years. The Report also 
serves as our annual United Nations Global Compact 
Communication on Progress.
Materiality 22 Approach:  The content in this Report is 
guided by our Priority Topics Assessment (PTA), which 
helps us identify and prioritize the environmental, 
social and governance topics that matter most to our stakeholders and to our Company (for more information, 
please see Sustainability Priorities ). As we navigate the  
rapidly evolving space of ESG frameworks, standards 
and guidelines, we leverage these material issues to 
prioritize our disclosures and effectively communicate 
to our stakeholders. We will continue to evaluate these 
topics in the future and, accordingly, our ESG disclosure 
may evolve over time.
Independent Review and Assurance:  ERM  
Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) 
conducted independent review and assurance of  
the following information and data in the Report  
(see independent assurance statements by ERM CVS ):
• Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020  
Goals, and associated data presented in the Health   
for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard .
• Progress against United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDGs) commitments, 
and associated data presented in the UN SDGs  
Commitment Progress Scorecard .
• Select year 2020 global greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions inventory, the percentage of electricity  
use generated by renewable energy sources, and  
NOx and SOx emissions (from combustion sources).
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) performed limited 
assurance on certain data in the following categories 
(see PwC ’s Report of Independent Accountants and  
Management's Assertion ):
• Our Giving
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (select metrics)
• Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) Governance
• Employee Turnover
• Employee Safety (select metrics)
• Ethics and Compliance (Our Credo Integrity Line 
Complaints & Inquiries)
• Ethics and Compliance (Triage Committee 
Investigations)
• Product Quality Our Global Audit & Assurance reviewed select data  
for accuracy, completeness and validity. The financial 
data and general information about the business in this 
Report were previously audited for disclosure in our 
2020 Annual Report .
Acquisitions: EH&S data of recently acquired 
companies, except for employee road safety data and 
site ISO and OHSAS certification data, are included in 
the Report two years after acquisition, unless otherwise 
noted. This grace period allows the new acquisitions to 
adjust their EH&S management and reporting systems 
to Johnson & Johnson standards. Road safety data 
are integrated the first year after acquisition, where 
available, and two years after acquisition at the latest. 
ISO and OHSAS certification data are integrated three 
years after acquisition. The dates and details of recent 
acquisitions can be found in Note 18 (Acquisitions and 
Divestitures) on page 83 of our 2020 Annual Report .
Divestitures:  Except for injury statistics and violations or 
fines, EH&S data of divested companies are excluded in 
the reporting year.
Restatements: We use a 5% change threshold to apply 
to significant changes in data or information that is 
restated, unless otherwise noted. There are a number 
of potential reasons that may lead to a restatement of 
either prior periods or baseline data (e.g., a significant 
change in newly published measures, new acquisitions 
or divestitures, data errors, or improvements in data 
collection methodology over time). Depending on 
circumstances, each is evaluated using this threshold, 
and appropriate disclosures are included in the Report. 
Data that were not disclosed in prior years are noted as 
“not reported” in relevant tables throughout the Report.
Contact us: 
We welcome your queries and feedback on 
this Report. Please contact the Johnson & 
Johnson Enterprise ESG Program Office at 
WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com . 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
99Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking 
Statements: This Report contains “forward-looking 
statements” as defined in the Private Securities  
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other 
things: future operating and financial performance, 
product development, market position and business 
strategy. The reader is cautioned not to rely on these 
forward-looking statements. These statements are 
based on current expectations of future events. If 
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or known 
or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual 
results could vary materially from the expectations 
and projections of Johnson & Johnson. Risks and 
uncertainties include, but are not limited to: risks related 
to the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic, such 
as the scope and duration of the outbreak, government 
actions and restrictive measures implemented in 
response, material delays and cancellations of medical 
procedures, supply chain disruptions and other impacts 
to the business, or on the Company’s ability to execute 
business continuity plans, as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic, economic factors, such as interest rate and 
currency exchange rate fluctuations; competition, 
including technological advances, new products and 
patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent 
in new product research and development, including 
uncertainty of clinical success and obtaining regulatory 
approvals; uncertainty of commercial success for new 
and existing products; challenges to patents; the impact 
of patent expirations; the ability of the Company to 
successfully execute strategic plans; the impact of 
business combinations and divestitures; manufacturing 
difficulties or delays, internally or within the supply 
chain; product efficacy or safety concerns resulting in 
product recalls or regulatory action; significant adverse 
litigation or government action, including related to 
product liability claims; changes to applicable laws and 
regulations, including tax laws and global healthcare 
reforms; trends toward healthcare cost containment; 
changes in behavior and spending patterns of 
purchasers of healthcare products and services; financial 
instability of international economies and legal systems 
and sovereign risk; increased scrutiny of the healthcare 
industry by government agencies. A further list and 
descriptions of these risks, uncertainties and other factors can be found in Johnson & Johnson's Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 
3, 2021, including in the sections captioned “Cautionary 
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and 
“Item 1A. Risk  Factors,” in the Company’s most recently 
filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the Company’s 
subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Copies of these filings are available online 
at www.sec.gov , www.jnj.com  or on request from  
Johnson & Johnson. Any forward-looking statement 
made in this release speaks only as of the date of this 
release. Johnson & Johnson does not undertake to 
update any forward-looking statement as a result of  
new information or future events or developments. 
Third-party trademarks used herein are trademarks  
of their respective owners.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
100Independent Assurance Statement
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide limited 
assurance on cumulative progress over 2016 - 2020 against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals reported in the 
Johnson & Johnson 2020 Health for Humanity Report (the Report) and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com  as 
set out below. 
Engagement Summary
Scope of our assurance 
engagement Whether cumulative 2016 - 2020 progress against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and related Targets as reported in the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals 
Progress Scorecard  (the Scorecard) in the Reporting Hub section of the Report on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com  is fairly presented, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the reporting criteria.  
Reporting criteria Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets as defined in the Scorecard . World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)/World Resources 
Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol for Greenhouse Gas emissions. 
Assurance
StandardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000 Revised).
Assurance level Limited assurance. 
Respective 
responsibilitiesJohnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the Report, including the Scorecard , and for the collection and presentation of the assured performance 
information and data.  
 
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and on exercising our professional  
judgement.  
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
101Our conclusion
Based on our assurance activities, as described below, 
nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 
cumulative progress (2016 - 2020) against the Health 
for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets, as reported 
in the Scorecard  in the Reporting Hub section on 
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com , is not fairly presented, 
in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting 
criteria.  
Our assurance activities  
We planned and performed our work to obtain all 
the information and explanations that we believe 
were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance 
conclusions. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability  
and assurance specialists performed assurance 
procedures as follows:  
• Conference calls with Johnson & Johnson Enterprise 
ESG Program Office to discuss, understand, and 
evaluate the systems and processes (including 
internal review/audit) used for collecting, consolidating, 
evaluating and reporting the information and data used 
to report progress against the Health for Humanity 
2020 Goals and Targets;
• Conference calls with management representatives 
responsible for each of the Health for Humanity 2020 
Goals and Targets and the implementation of the 
related activities undertaken in 2020;
• A review of the reporting principles, boundaries, 
definitions and internal guidelines for each of the 
selected Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets;
• A high-level review of the GHG and renewable energy 
data to confirm consistency with the findings of our 
separate GHG and renewable energy verification 
engagement including completeness and consistency 
over time and the restatements of the baseline and  
prior year data;
• A review of samples of underlying documentary 
evidence and data to support the reported cumulative 
progress for each Health for Humanity 2020 Goal and 
Target, including internal and external documents; and• A review of the presentation of information relevant to  
the scope of our work on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com  
and in the PDF version of the Report to ensure consistency 
with our findings.
The limitations of our engagement 
The reliability of the assured information is subject to  
inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for 
determining, calculating, or estimating the underlying 
information. It is important to understand our assurance 
conclusions in this context. In addition, the assured 
information should be read in conjunction with the  
boundary and consolidation policies under ‘About this  
Report’ on page 99 of the report and the disclosures 
provided under the column ‘Notable’  in the Scorecard . 
Regarding the formation on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com , 
we provide no assurance over any information other than as 
described in our assurance scope above nor on changes to 
the content of the assured information after the date of this 
assurance statement.
Our observations 
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate 
management report with our detailed findings and 
recommendations.
 
 
Beth Wyke  
Partner, Global Head of Corporate Assurance Services  
1 June 2021
 
ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc.  
www.ermcvs.com    
Email: post@ermcvs.com  
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for 
clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our 
processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with 
clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have 
undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to 
the client in any respect.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
102Independent Assurance Statement
UN Sustainable Development Goals Commitment Progress
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide limited 
assurance on the cumulative 2016 – 2020 progress against the Company’s 2020 Goals related to its Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDG) 2030 Vision and aspirations as presented in the Johnson & Johnson 2020 Health for 
Humanity Report (the Report) and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com  as set out below. 
Engagement Summary
Scope of our assurance 
engagement Whether cumulative 2016-2020 progress against the 2020 SDG Goals as reported in the 2020 UN SDG Progress Scorecard  (the SDG Scorecard) in the  
Reporting Hub section of the Report on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com  is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
Reporting criteria The 2020 SDG Goals (under Vision 2030) as described in the SDG Scorecard. 
Assurance
StandardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000 Revised).
Assurance level Limited assurance.
Respective 
responsibilitiesJohnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the Report, including the SDG Scorecard , and for the collection and presentation of the information within it. 
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and on exercising our professional 
judgement. 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
103Our conclusion
Based on our assurance activities, as described below, 
nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 
cumulative progress (2016 – 2020) against the 2020 SDG 
Goals as reported in the SDG Scorecard  in the Reporting 
Hub section on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com  is not 
fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance 
with the reporting criteria. 
Our assurance activities
We planned and performed our work to obtain all 
the information and explanations that we believe 
were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance 
conclusions. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability  
and assurance specialists performed assurance 
procedures as follows:  
• A review of the reporting principles, boundaries, 
definitions and internal guidelines for each of the 2020 
SDG Goals;
• Conference calls with Johnson & Johnson team to 
discuss, understand, and evaluate the systems and 
processes (including internal review/audit) used for 
collecting, consolidating, evaluating and reporting the 
information and data used to report progress against 
the 2020 SDG Goals; 
• Review of selected information provided by Johnson & 
Johnson partners responsible for delivering programs 
and providing the data used to report the 2016 – 2020 
progress towards the 2020 SDG Goals;
• A review of completeness and the consolidation of 
the program results for 2016 – 2020 for each Goal 
in order to reduce the risk of double counting and to 
understand assumptions as well as overlaps with some 
of the Johnson & Johnson Health for Humanity 2020 
Goals for which we undertook a separate assurance 
engagement; and 
• A review of the presentation of information relevant 
to the scope of our work including explanatory notes 
in the ‘Notable’ column in the SDG Scorecard and in 
the section on ‘Challenges of reporting and assuring 
progress against the SDG goals’ to ensure consistency 
with our findings. The limitations of our engagement
The reliability of the assured information is subject to 
inherent uncertainties, given the nature of the ambitious 
Johnson & Johnson aspirations and Targets and the 
dependence on partner organisations to deliver programs 
and provide performance information, as well as the 
use of estimates, assumptions, and extrapolations 
to report progress. Johnson & Johnson describes 
these uncertainties in the ‘Challenges of reporting and 
assuring progress against the SDG goals’ in the SDG  
Scorecard . It is important to understand our assurance 
conclusions in this context. Regarding the information 
on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com , we provide no 
assurance over changes to the content of the web-based 
information after the date of this assurance statement. 
Our observations 
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate 
management report with our detailed findings and 
recommendations.
 
 
Beth Wyke  
Partner, Global Head of Corporate Assurance Services  
1 June 2021
 
ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc.  
www.ermcvs.com    
Email: post@ermcvs.com  
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts 
for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor 
training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work 
we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS 
and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no 
consultancy related services to the client in any respect.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
104Independent Assurance Statement
GHG Emissions and Electricity Data 
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide assurance 
in relation to the information set out below and presented on pages 81, and 83 to 85 in the Johnson & Johnson 2020 
Health for Humanity Report (the Report) and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com  as set out below.
Engagement Summary
Scope of our assurance 
engagement Whether the corporate 2020* data for the following selected indicators are fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria: 
• Total absolute Scope 1 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of CO2e
• Total absolute Scope 2 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of CO2e reported using the location based and market based methods
• Total absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of CO2e for the following categories:
• 1: Purchased goods and services
• 2: Capital goods
• 3: Fuel and energy-related activities 
• 4: Upstream transportation and distribution
• 5: Waste generated in operations 
• 6: Business travel
• 8: Upstream leased assets
• 9: Downstream transportation and distribution for U.S. operations (from the EP A SmartWay program for the year ending 31st December 2019)
• Total NOx and SOx from facility combustion sources in metric tonnes (MT)
• Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources globally
• Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources in North America (U.S. and Canada)
• Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources in the EU 
* 2019 for Scope 3 downstream transportation and distribution. 
Reporting criteria The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
Johnson & Johnson’s internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other metrics.
Assurance
StandardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). 
Assurance level Limited assurance.
Respective 
responsibilitiesJohnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in the Report to third parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria 
and boundary.   
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
105Our conclusions
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention 
to indicate that the following selected 2020* corporate 
metrics are not fairly presented, in all material respects, 
with the reporting criteria. This conclusion is to be read in 
the context of the remainder of this statement, in particular 
the information in the emphasis of matter and inherent 
limitations paragraphs below.
Scope 1 GHG emissions:  
363,924 MT CO2e     
Scope 2 GHG (location-based) emissions:  
641,489 MT CO2e      
Scope 2 GHG (market-based) emissions:  
383,745 MT CO2e     
Scope 3 GHG emissions for the following categories: 
• Category 1: Purchased 
goods and services9,437,330 MT CO2e
• Category 2: Capital goods 271,206 MT CO2e
• Category 3: Fuel and 
energy-related activities183,087 MT CO2e
• Category 4: Upstream 
transportation and 
distribution2,043,109 MT CO2e
• Category 5: Waste 
generated in operations8,065 MT CO2e
• Category 6: Business travel 303,249 MT CO2e
• Category 8: Upstream 
leased assets28,969 MT CO2e
• Category 9: Downstream 
transportation and 
distribution (*2019, from  
the EPA SmartWay program 
for U.S. operations only)58,184 MT CO2e
Emphasis of matter  
Without affecting our conclusion, which is not modified, 
we draw attention to the explanatory notes provided by 
Johnson & Johnson relating to the data on pages 83-84 of 
the Report, in particular the limitations relating to the data 
for the Scope 3 emissions category 9 on page 83 of the 
Report which should be read in conjunction with the data. Our assurance activities   
Our objective was to assess whether the assured 
emissions data are reported in accordance with the 
principles of completeness, comparability (across the 
organisation) and accuracy (including calculations, use 
of appropriate conversion factors and consolidation). 
We planned and performed our work to obtain all 
the information and explanations that we believe 
were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance 
conclusions. We applied a 5% material error threshold. 
A team of GHG and assurance specialists performed the 
following key activities: 
• Virtual interviews with relevant staff to understand 
internal reporting processes, including the use of its 
GHG Management Plan, internal spreadsheets, and 
its various internal data management and reporting 
systems;
• Virtual site visits to seven sites (Georgia, U.S.; Gurabo, 
Puerto Rico; Helsingborg, Sweden; Jacksonville, U.S.; 
Latina, Italy; Limerick, Ireland; Shanghai, China) to 
review local reporting processes and consistency of 
reported annual data with selected underlying source 
data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant staff, 
reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, 
checked calculations and assessed the local internal 
quality and assurance processes; 
• A review of samples of primary data such as invoices;
• A review of the calculations undertaken, including 
conversion factors and emission factors used; 
• A review of estimates, extrapolations and assumptions 
made in relation to the data for relevant GHG Scope 3 
emissions categories; 
• A review of the calculations for restatement of NOx and 
SOx data for 2018 and 2019; and
• An analytical review of the consolidated year end data 
for each metric.
The limitations of our engagement
The reliability of the assured information is subject to 
inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for 
determining, calculating or estimating the underlying 
information. It is important to understand our assurance 
conclusions in this context. Our independent assurance statement provides no assurance on the maintenance and 
integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve 
this, and in particular whether any changes may have 
occurred to the information since it was first published.
Due to COVID travel restrictions, we planned our 
assurance engagement to include virtual site visits.  
While we believe this approach does not affect our limited 
assurance conclusion(s) above, we draw attention to  
the possibility that if we had undertaken in person visits 
we may have identified errors and omissions in the 
assured information that we did not discover through  
the alternative assurance program.
Our observations  
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate 
management report with our detailed (non-material) 
findings and recommendations. Without affecting the 
conclusions presented above, we have the following key 
observation:
• Johnson & Johnson should document its uncertainty 
information for each GHG Scope 3 emissions category, 
particularly regarding Category 9, and describe its 
efforts to record uncertainty in future revisions of the 
Scope 3 emissions inventory. 
 
 
Beth Wyke  
Partner, Global Head of Corporate Assurance Services  
1 June 2021
 
ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc.  
www.ermcvs.com    
Email: post@ermcvs.com  
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts 
for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor 
training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work 
we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS 
and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no 
consultancy related services to the client in any respect.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
106 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 400 Campus Drive,  Florham Park,  NJ 07932  
 www.pwc.com  
 
 
 
 
 
Report of Independent Accountants  
To the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson  
We have reviewed the accompanying Johnson & Johnson management assertion, that the sustainability metrics  as of or for the year ended 
December 31, 20 20 in management’s assertion  are presented in conformity with the assessment criteria set for th in management’s assertion.  
Johnson & Johnson’s management is responsible for its assertion and for the selection of the criteria, which management belie ves provide an 
objective basis for measuring and reporting on the sustainability metrics. Our respo nsibility is to express a conclusion on management’s 
assertion based on our review.  
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public A ccountants 
(“AICPA”) in AT -C section 105, Conce pts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT -C section 210, Review Engagements . Those 
standards require that we plan and perform the review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications sh ould be made 
to management’s assertion i n order to be fairly stated. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects, in order to expr ess an opini on. 
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion.  
In performing our review, we have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Professional C ondu ct issued 
by the AICPA.  
We applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive sy stem of 
quality control.  
  
The preparation of the sustainability metrics requires management to establish  the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy of 
information to be included, and make assumptions that affect reported information. The selection by management of different b ut acceptable 
measurement techniques could have result ed in materiall y different amounts or metrics being reported.  
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to Johnson & Johnson ’s management assertion in 
order for it to be fairly stated.  
 
June 8, 2021  
 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
107Johnson & Johnson Management Assertion
As of December 31, 2020 or for the year then ended
Management of Johnson & Johnson is responsible for the completeness, accuracy, and validity of the sustainability 
metrics included in the tables below as of December 31, 2020 or for the year then ended (the reporting year) for global 
operations, unless otherwise noted. The metrics have been rounded to the nearest whole number unless otherwise 
indicated.
Management asserts that the metrics reported in the tables below, which are also included in the Health for Humanity 
Report as identified by the “‡“ symbol, are presented in conformity with the assessment criteria set forth below. 
Management is responsible for the selection or development of the criteria, which management believes provide 
an objective basis for measuring and reporting on the selected metrics. The preparation of the metrics requires 
management to establish the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy of information to be included, and make 
assumptions that affect reported information. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement 
techniques could have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
Our Giving(a)
Metric Description Metric Value
Total products(b) and cash contributed globally (millions) $2,567
Products(b) contributed globally (millions) $2,043
Cash contributed globally (millions) $524
(a) Contributions are products or cash donations made to qualified nonprofit entities (i.e., 501(c)(3) organizations in the US or with an NGOsource 501(c)(3) equivalency determination for organizations outside the 
US) by Johnson & Johnson during the reporting year, or are pledged and accrued during the reporting year, with confirmation of payment in 2021. Administrative costs incurred by Johnson & Johnson during 
the contribution process are also included in cash contributions (3% of the total amount).
(b) Products contributed are measured at fair market value, which is the price of the product, as determined by an internal price list in USD as of December 31, 2020, that Johnson & Johnson would sell to 
consumers on the market.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
108Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) 
Metric Description Metric Value
Employees(a) 136,400
Gender Diversity of Global Employees(a) (b)Women 48.1%
Global Workforce(a) by Region(d)  Asia Pacific 27,939 
Europe, Middle East & Africa (EMEA) 41,201 
Latin America 20,320
North America 46,900 
Gender Diversity(b) by Employment Type(c) (j)Full-time employees Women 47.1% 
Part-time employees Women 82.9%  
Gender Diversity(b) by Region(d) (j)Asia Pacific: Women 46.2%
EMEA: Women 49.8% 
Latin America: Women 51.1% 
North America: Women 46.3%  
Gender Diversity(b) by Job Category(d) (j)Vice Presidents: Women 35.3%
Managers and Directors: Women 46.8% 
Professionals: Women 49.8% 
Age Diversity(e) by Job Category(d) (j)Vice Presidents  
Under 30 0%  
30-50 44.2%  
50+ 55.8%
Managers and Directors  
Under 30 1.3%  
30-50 72.4%  
50+ 26.4%
Professionals  
Under 30 20.7%  
30-50 61.7%  
50+ 17.5%
(a) Global Workforce is the global employee headcount as of December 31, 2020, excluding fixed term employees, interns, co-op employees, employees on long-term disability and employees from more recently 
acquired companies who are not yet reflected in the Johnson & Johnson Human Resources Information Systems (HRIS) (which does not exceed 2 years from the date of acquisition). Contingent workers, 
contractors and subcontractors are also excluded. This data is based on headcount from the HRIS. Global Workforce is rounded to the nearest hundred.
(b) Gender and ethnic/racial diversity are reported in accordance with the gender, ethnicity and race as self-reported by the employee and recorded in HRIS as of December 31, 2020. Other is defined as employees 
who self-reported as American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander or two or more races. 
(c) An individual working full-time is defined as an employee working 40 hours or more a week. An individual working part-time is defined as an employee working less than 40 hours a week. 
(d) The region and job category is obtained from HRIS as of December 31, 2020.
(e) Age diversity is reported in accordance with the age group as self-reported by the employee and recorded in HRIS as of December 31, 2020, and due to rounding may not equal 100.0%. 
(j) As of October 2020, new categories were added to allow employees to actively decline self-identification or remain unidentified. Where the value for “Declined to answer” rounded to zero, we excluded from the 
reported table.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
109Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) continued
Metric Description Metric Value
Ethnic/Racial Diversity(b) in the U.S. by Job Category(d) (j)Managers and Directors  
Asian 17.2% 
Black/African American 5.4%  
Hispanic/Latino: 7.3%  
Other 1.3% 
Declined to answer 1.1%
Professionals 
Asian 12.9%  
Black/African American 7.5% 
Hispanic/Latino 10.2%  
Other 2.2% 
Declined to answer 0.9%
Diversity in Board Composition(f)Women 35.7%
Ethnic/Racial Diversity 21.4%
Gender Diversity(b) in Management(g) and Executive Positions(h)Women in management positions 46.4%
Women in executive positions 14.3%
Total Number of New Hires(i)13,594
New Hires(i) by Gender(b) (j)Women 52.5%
Men 47.5%
Declined to answer 0%
New Hires(i) by Age(e)Under 30 46.5%
30-50 48.5%
50+ 4.9%
New Hires(i) by Region(d) (e)Asia Pacific 28.4% 
Europe, Middle East & Africa 22.7% 
Latin America 22.4% 
North America 26.4%
(b) Gender and ethnic/racial diversity are reported in accordance with the gender, ethnicity and race as self-reported by the employee and recorded in HRIS as of December 31, 2020. Other is defined as employees 
who self-reported as American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander or two or more races. 
(d) The region and job category is obtained from HRIS as of December 31, 2020.
(e) Age diversity is reported in accordance with the age group as self-reported by the employee and recorded in HRIS as of December 31, 2020, and due to rounding may not equal 100.0%. 
(f) Gender and ethnic/racial diversity in the Board composition is reported in accordance with the gender and ethnicity as confirmed by board members as of December 31, 2020.
(g) Management position is considered paygrade 30 and above. The paygrades are obtained from HRIS as of December 31, 2020.     
(h) Executives are defined as employees reporting directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer based on an organization chart including names and positions as of December 31, 2020.
(i) New employee hires are external hires with a start date between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2020 obtained from HRIS.
(j) As of October 2020, new categories were added to allow employees to actively decline self-identification or remain unidentified. Where the value for “Declined to answer” rounded to zero, we excluded from the 
reported table.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
110Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) Governance 
Metric Description Metric Value
Number of environmental non-compliances(a) (b)50
Fines paid for environmental non-compliances(b) (c) (thousands) $5.9
Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001(d) (e)95
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001(d) (e)96%
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) or ISO 45001(d) (e)21%
(a) Environmental non-compliances represent instances of non-compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or laws that were either (i) self-reported to authorities in the reporting year or (ii) identified 
by authorities and the non-compliance occurred in the reporting year. The authorities include regional, national, state/country/province, and local/city regulatory agencies
(b) Environmental non-compliances and fines paid exclude newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than 2 years as of December 31, 2020).
(c) Fines paid for environmental non-compliances include those paid in the reporting year. It does not include fines assessed and/or under negotiation that were not paid as of December 31, 2020.
(d) Certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 means the site has received an external certification that is valid as of December 31, 2020.
(e) The denominator of total manufacturing and research & development (R&D) sites excludes small R&D and manufacturing sites (defined as having less than 50 employees) and newly acquired sites (i.e., owned 
less than 3 years as of December 31, 2020).  
Employee Turnover
Metric Description Metric Value
Percentage of Managers and above moved across functions, country or business segment lines, building diversity of experiences(a) (b) (c)44.6%
Overall voluntary turnover(d)5%
Voluntary turnover(d) of high performers(e)3%
(a) Represents the percentage of employees in Manager and above job categories (defined as paygrade 30 or above in HRIS as of December 31, 2020) who in their career progression moved through upward  
promotion or lateral transfer during the reporting year.          
(b) Excludes fixed term, intern, and co-op employees, employees on long-term disability, employees from more recently acquired companies who are not yet reflected in HRIS, and employees under research  
& development leaders in the Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and Consumer Health segments.   
(c) Employee movement is tracked monthly in HRIS and then consolidated at year end. If an employee moves, for example, across both function and country in the same month, it is only counted as one move.
(d) Employee count excludes fixed term, intern, and co-op employees, employees on long-term disability, and employees from more recently acquired companies who are not yet reflected in HRIS. Voluntary 
turnover (the numerator) excludes employees leaving the company due to retirement or death.
(e) High performer is defined as an individual with two consecutive annual performance ratings of Exceeds/Exceeds, Exceeds/Fully Meets, or Fully Meets/Exceeds (note that “exceeds” is one out of four possible 
dimension ratings). Employees who are not part of the performance management process are excluded from the voluntary turnover of high performers metric.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
111Employee Safety(a)
Metric Description Metric Value
Lost Workday Case (LWDC) rate(b) (c) (d)Global 0.05
Asia Pacific 0.02
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.04
Latin America 0.08
North America 0.07
Total Recordable Injury rate (TRIR) (b) (e)Global 0.24
Asia Pacific 0.08
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.21
Latin America 0.18
North America 0.35
Serious Injury and Illness Case (SIIC) rate(b) (f)Global 0.02     
Asia Pacific 0.02     
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.01     
Latin America 0.01     
North America 0.04     
Number of fatalities Global 0
(a) Includes data as of December 31, 2020 and hours worked in the reporting year. More recently acquired sites (i.e., owned less than 2 years as of December 31, 2020) are excluded from employee safety metrics.
(b) LWDC rate, TRIR, SIIC rate, and fatalities are calculated for Johnson & Johnson employees and contingent workers. Contingent workers (i.e., workers supplied by third party agencies that are the worker’s 
employer of record) are intended to supplement or temporarily replace existing workforce and are directly supervised by a Johnson & Johnson employee. Cases from contractor/ subcontractors (who are not 
contingent workers) are excluded.
(c) “Lost days” are calendar days where an employee is unable to work due to illness or injury, beginning the day after an incident has taken place through the last day of leave (excluding holidays and vacations). 
(d) LWDC rate is calculated as follows and the data used in the calculation is obtained from the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system: (number of LWDC * 200,000 work hours) / total work hours.
(e) TRIR is calculated as follows and the data used in the calculation is obtained from the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system: (number of recordable cases * 200,000 work hours) / total work hours.
(f) SIIC rate is calculated as follows and the data used in the calculation is obtained from the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system: (number of SIIC * 200,000 work hours) / total work hours.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
112Ethics and Compliance (Our Credo Integrity Line Complaints & Inquires) 
Metric Description Metric Value
Percentage of inquiries and complaints as filed with Our Credo Integrity Line by Category (a) (b)Human Resources-related 51%
Financial-related 14%
Business integrity-related 12%
Other 11%
General information questions 10%
Product quality and patient safety-related 2%
(a) There are 47 inquiry and complaint categories for the complainant to select from when reporting inquiries and complaints through Johnson & Johnson’s anonymous reporting mechanism which are then 
summarized into six reported categories by Johnson & Johnson. Other consists of the following categories: privacy, information security, general security, EH&S, legal/regulatory and follow up.
(b) Johnson & Johnson introduced a 48th human rights category in December 2020 but has excluded those inquiries and complaints in calculating the 2020 percentages presented. This category will be included in 
the 2021 Health for Humanity Report. 
Ethics and Compliance (Triage Committee Investigations)
Metric Description Metric Value
Number of compliance-related allegations investigated through Triage Committee(a)  559
Percentage of compliance-related allegations investigated through Triage Committee, by category(a)Healthcare compliance(b) 41%
Financial(c) 51%
Other(d) 8%
(a) Compliance-related allegations can be filed by internal or external parties, and for those allegations that meet the internal escalation criteria, they are logged and categorized by Johnson & Johnson management 
within the iSight Case Management System and then presented to and investigated through the Johnson & Johnson Triage Committee. Internal escalation criteria includes actual or alleged: expense violations 
exceeding $1,000; theft, fraud or misuse of funds exceeding $1,000; non-compliance with laws and regulations, such as anti-corruption laws or human trafficking rules; governmental non-compliance, such 
as failure to abide by relevant terms of a US government invoice, contract or pricing program, financial conflicts of interest, false or incomplete statements made to the US government; non-compliance with 
internal Johnson & Johnson policies that could result in termination of the employee; data breach or privacy incidents; and misconduct by members of the senior leadership team.                   
(b) Healthcare compliance-related allegations consist of violations of Healthcare Compliance guidelines including Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) violations.  
(c) Financial compliance-related allegations consist of asset misappropriation, conflicts of interest, and financial statements. 
(d) Other compliance-related allegations consist of legal, quality, anti-trust, product registration, and privacy.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
113Product Quality
Metric Description Metric Value
Number of regulatory inspections(a) of Johnson & Johnson sites by worldwide health authorities(b)452
Percentage of regulatory inspections(a) that resulted in zero observations(b) 82%
Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites(c)10
Percentage of FDA inspections that resulted in zero observations(c)80%
Average number of observations per FDA inspection(c)1.7
Number of independent audits of Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy and Standards(d)165
Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites(e) to ensure compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy  
and Standards(d)230
Number of FDA warning letters issued 0
Product recall rate(f), by business segment Pharmaceutical: 0%
Medical Devices: 0.034%
Consumer Health(g):  0%
(a) A regulatory inspection is defined as an inspection conducted by the health authority to determine compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
(b) Health authorities are organizations with authority over the development, manufacture, distribution, placing on the market, and post market surveillance of products. For example, the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA), Korean Food and Drug Administration (KFDA), British Standards Institution (BSI), and Health Canada. The observations identified during the inspection are listed on a form provided by 
the third-party health authority who conducted the inspection.
(c) An FDA inspection is defined as a regulatory inspection performed by the FDA and an observation is defined as the observed condition or practice indicating that an FDA-regulated product may be in violation of 
FDA requirements. The observations are listed on FDA Form 483 during inspections conducted by the FDA and then provided to the manufacturer following the FDA inspection.
(d) Independent audits are conducted by internal Johnson & Johnson Regulatory Compliance auditors at Johnson & Johnson sites and external manufacturing sites.
(e) An external manufacturing site is defined as not owned or operated by Johnson & Johnson.
(f) Product recall rate is defined as the number of lots removed from the market as a percentage of total lots globally manufactured, based on field action removals where it has been determined internally 
by a Quality Review Board and aligned by Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Compliance, that there is a reasonable probability that the product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health 
consequences and in certain cases will cause serious adverse health consequences. A lot is defined as a specific quantity of material that has uniform character and quality and was released to market during the 
2020 calendar year.
(g) The Consumer Health product recall rate reflects over-the-counter (OTC) products. 
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
1142020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
115Glossary
ACRONYM DEFINITION
AMR Antimicrobial Resistance
ARV Antiretroviral
BARDA Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
EH&S Environmental Health and Safety
EMA European Medicines Agency
ESG Environmental, Social and Governance
EUA Emergency Use Authorization
FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration
GPH Global Public Health
JJBC Johnson & Johnson Bioethics Committee
JJMDC Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies
JLABS Johnson & Johnson Innovation—JLABS
LMICs Low- and middle-income countries
MDR-TB Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
OCMO The Johnson & Johnson Office of the Chief Medical Officer
OCMS Office of Consumer Medical Safety
PTA Priority Topics Assessment
RSV Respiratory syncytial virus
RWD Real-world data
RWE Real-world evidence
SDG Sustainable Development Goal (of the United Nations)
STH Soil Transmitted Helminths (or intestinal parasites)
USAID U.S. Agency for International Development
WHO World Health OrganizationReferences
1 The tax information contained in this section is 
intended to provide the reader with an overview of 
all taxes contributed by Johnson & Johnson, and not 
just income taxes. It should be read in conjunction 
with the Company’s tax information filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including 
in the most recently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 
10-Q and Annual Report on Form 10-K. This tax 
information is supplemental to, and not a substitute 
for, the information reported in the Company’s SEC 
filings.
2 Authorization approval status of our COVID-19 
vaccine varies by country. For the latest updates, 
please visit Janssen.com .
3 Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies  
Elective Surgery Survey . 
4 Comparison based on a weighted average of the 
procedure time with QDOT MICROTM Technology 
in QMODE (129.8 min; N = 42) and in QMODE+™ 
(105.2 min; N = 52), and the weighted average of 
the procedure time with irrigated, contact force RF 
catheters (202.8 min; 5 studies, N = 622). Comparison 
of non-randomized, independent single-arm studies.
5 https://www.unaids.org/en/resources/fact-sheet  
Accessed Feb 2021.
6 This combined treatment regimen is marketed as 
CABENUVA in North America.
7 N. Gumede and E. Durden. Johnson & Johnson, 
Global Public Health, South Africa. Insights on youth 
leadership in HIV programming for adolescent girls 
and young women in South Africa: Lessons from 
programme implementation . https://dreamstaa.co.za/
wp-content/uploads/2021/02/Screenshot-2021-02-
24-at-16.35.33.png . 
8 https://academicmedicaleducation.com/meeting/
international-workshop-hiv-pediatrics-2020/e-
poster/hiv-infected-treatment-experienced .
9 https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/hand
le/10665/336069/9789240013131-eng.pdf .  
Accessed Mar 2021.10 Nature Microbiology.  “Tracking virus outbreaks  
in the twenty-first century.” 2019; 4(1):10-19.
11 Johnson & Johnson also acknowledges its many 
strategic partners in the ongoing global clinical 
program for the vaccine regimen, including Bavarian 
Nordic A/S, Centre Muraz, College of Medicine and 
Allied Health Sciences, Democratic Republic of the 
Congo Ministry of Public Health, Emory University’s 
Project San Francisco, Epicentre, Grameen 
Foundation, Inserm, Inserm Transfert, Institut 
National de Recherche Biomédicale, London School 
of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, Médecins Sans 
Frontières, Republic of Rwanda Ministry of Health, 
Rinda Ubuzima, Rwanda Biomedical Center, Sierra 
Leone Ministry of Health and Sanitation, Uganda 
Virus Research Institute, Université de Kinshasa, 
University of Antwerp, University of Oxford, Walter 
Reed Army Institute of Research, World Health 
Organization, World Vision Ireland, Wellcome Trust, 
Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, 
Vibalogics, and all the people who participated in 
clinical trials during the Ebola epidemic in West Africa 
and the DRC.
12 https://www.who.int/reproductivehealth/
publications/ebola-pregnant-and-breastfeeding-
women/en/ .
13 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/
antimicrobial-resistance . Accessed February, 2021.
14 Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) Report: “It’s Time 
to End Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis: The case for 
action.” 2019. Available here: https://www.eiu.
com/n/its-time-to-end-drug-resistant-tuberculosis/ . 
Last accessed 22 September 2020.
15 “A Road Map for Neglected Tropical Diseases 2021–
2030,” WHO, Executive Summary, page xii. ht tps://
www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240010352 .
16 https://www.who.int/neglected_diseases/news/
Leprosy-new-data-show-steady-decline-in-new-
cases/en/ .17 https://www.who.int/initiatives/who-special-
initiative-for-mental-health .
18 https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/02/
who-healthcare-challenges-2020s-climate-conflict-
epidemics/ . Accessed Feb 2021.
19 https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/maternal-mortality/
MMR-2018-State-Data-508.pdf .
20 Chen, Xi, PhD. Decision Resources Group. “Medtech 
360: Reprocessed Devices | Market Analysis | US | 
2016.” Millennium Research Group, Inc., August 2016.
21 Our Sustainable Procurement Program (SPP) was 
renamed as Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP).
22 Materiality, as used in this Report, and our Priority 
Topics Assessment process are different than the 
definition used in the context of filings with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents      |     Message from Our CEO     |     Our Approach      |     United in Defeating COVID-19      |     Better Health for All      |     Responsible Business Practices      |     Reporting Hub
1162020 Health for Humanity Report
Progress in Sustainability
Contact us:
Johnson & Johnson Enterprise ESG Program Office  
WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza  
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com  
jnj.com