2021  
CITIZENSHIP  
REPORT
SUMMARY
This document includes interactive elements  
and is best viewed in Adobe Acrobat or Reader.
Access the screen reader-friendly version    
of P&G’s Citizenship Report SummaryI want to take this opportunity to repeat and refresh our commitment to 
P&G’s Citizenship efforts. 
I approach this with a strong point of view. It is my personal belief 
that P&G is one of the most socially relevant companies on the planet. Over our 184 years, we have shown that our ability to grow is directly connected to our commitment to responsible business and doing good. Our ability to do good is in turn strengthened by our growth. We aim to be a force for growth and a force for good. We see these as inseparable.
Citizenship is how we refer to our efforts in Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) areas. We have built Citizenship into how we do  business every day.
Continued on the next page   DEAR STAKEHOLDERS,
Equality  
& InclusionCommunity  
ImpactEthics & Corporate  
ResponsibilityEnvironmental  
Sustainability “We aim to be a  
force for growth and  
a force for good. We see  
these as inseparable.”
JON R. MOELLER
President and Chief Executive Officer
2
Environmental Sustainability has been embedded 
into how P&G does business for decades. We continually work to improve our environmental impact and enable consumers and suppliers to do the same. In September, we announced a comprehensive Climate Transition Action Plan — Net Zero 2040 — to accelerate action related to climate change. We set a new ambition to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions across our operations and supply chain by 2040, with interim 2030 goals to ensure meaningful progress this decade.  
Our Community Impact work supports people 
and communities in difficult times. We continue to provide COVID-19 relief around the world through donations of products, cash, and personal protective equipment. At the same time, we’re supporting those who have faced fires, floods, typhoons, hurricanes and other emergencies. And our signature Community Impact initiative, the P&G Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program, has provided more than 19 billion liters of clean water to people in need around the world.Our Equality & Inclusion efforts are focused on helping create a world where equality and inclusion are achievable for all, inside and outside of P&G. Our diverse group of P&G people advance innovative ways to grow our business and support our communities. We use our voice through films, advertising, and programs to advance equity in our industry and society at large. We believe when brands and businesses meaningfully engage  in supporting equality, it leads to a better world  for all.
Ethics & Corporate Responsibility is the foundation 
for everything we do at P&G, including our Citizenship work. Building and sustaining a robust business for more than 180 years depends on maintaining strong ethical, compliance and quality standards across everything we do. It is a critical reason consumers trust us, partners do business with us, and shareholders invest in us. 
As I shared earlier, I believe P&G is one of the 
most socially relevant companies on the planet. With that comes a responsibility, not only  to consumers, employees, and shareowners,  but also to our customers, communities, and  our broader world alike. Together, the people of P&G accept that responsibility — a responsibility none of us can deliver alone, but an objective that, together, working with each other and with valued partners, we can achieve and sustain so we  can continue to be a force for growth and  a force for good.
JON R. MOELLERPresident and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
NOTE TO READER
This document includes interactive  
elements—use your cursor and click to  
reveal additional information. Some  
features may not work in web browsers,  
or with mobile or tablet viewing.
3
When COVID-19 hit, we set a clear 
strategy focusing on three areas —
Taking Care of 
P&G PeopleServing 
ConsumersSupporting 
Communities
We offered the resources to help keep our employees safe and protected. We provided many of the brands people count on to take care of their personal health and hygiene and to create healthy homes. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we donated tens of millions of dollars’ worth of product,  in-kind and cash donations to help people and communities suffering  from the effects of the pandemic.
Here are just a few examples of how  
we stepped up as a force for good in  this time of need. 
CLICK ON EACH PIN TO READ MORE
GLOBALCOVID-19 RESPONSE
4
This year’s events have helped to bring clarity to what matters. Our role as 
a company is not only to serve consumers with the products they rely on to take care of their personal health and hygiene and create healthy homes, but also to step up to be a force for good in the world.
At P&G, we bring this vision to life through ‘Acts of Good’ in our communities. Giving back is rooted in who we are as a company. For more than 180 years, 
we have served our communities to help make lives a little better by — COMMUNITY  
IMPACT
Working with our 
partners to provide 
clean drinking waterTaking care of  
our neighbors  
after a disasterDonating  
products and cash  
in times of needWorking through our 
brands to make a 
positive difference
5And across 
our sites, we’re supporting our frontline workers.
Through our brands,  
people and resources,  
we are uniquely positioned  
to help restore a sense of  
normalcy in communities  
impacted by disasters. In the last year, we stepped up 
to help in the aftermath of more than 30 emergencies by —
Offering Tide Loads of Hope  
and other laundry services
Partnering with  
Matthew 25: Ministries
Providing clean drinking waterHelping displaced familiesDonating products, cash and more
COVID-19 vaccines globally.TWO MILLION+Announced at VAX LIVE, our 
donation of U.S. $5 million was matched by GAVI, providing 
6
We stepped up to help  
our hometown community  by donating more than 
of clean water made possible through the Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program.women and babies protected from Maternal Neonatal Tetanus (MNT) through the partnership between Pampers and UNICEF .
19 BILLION LITERS1
-60%
Newborn  
deaths by  MNT reduced  by 60%.$11,000,000100
MILLION
to the United Way of  
Greater Cincinnati. 
1 As of October 2021 UNICEF does not endorse any company, brand, product or service
7
At P&G, we aspire to create a company and a world where equality  
and inclusion are achievable for all ; where respect and inclusion are  
the cornerstones of our culture; where equal access and opportunity  to learn, grow, succeed and thrive are available to everyone. 
By being visible in our actions and staying anchored in our commitments  
to our employees, through our brands and with our business partners,  we can continue to drive important change around the world.EQUALITY  
& INCLUSION
EMPLOYEES BRANDS PARTNERS COMMUNITIES
8We introduced audio description 
across the majority of our  advertising in the UK, U.S. and Spain — opening these ads to over
25 MILLION
blind or visually impaired people.
We are committed to  
accelerating progress  
toward gender equality  
at home, at work  
and in society.
During the UN Generation Equality Forum in June 2021,  
we shared three commitments —
Spending $10 billion with  
women-owned and women-led businesses through 2025.
Partnering with Promundo  
to advance gender equality  by engaging men and boys. 
Accurately portraying all women  
and girls through our brands’ advertising and media.
9
$4,200,000
for the LGBTQ+ community.6.3 million viewers and listeners 
tuned in to this year’s Can’t Cancel Pride virtual relief benefit, raising more than
Pantene’s #HairHasNoGender  
campaign explores  the power of  hair to express  one’s identity.We are committed to using 
our voice to accurately and authentically drive LGBTQ+ visibility .
We introduced Widen The Screen, a broad creative and partnership platform to increase inclusion of Black creators in  the advertising, film, television and media industries.
We partnered with GLAAD to launch 
The Visibility Project, working to advance LGBTQ+ inclusion in ads.
10
At P&G, environmental sustainability is embedded in how we do business. We have a 
responsibility to make the world better. P&G is committed to positively impacting our homes, our communities and our planet — especially in the areas of climate, forestry, water and packaging. 
We are focused on developing innovations and products that deliver irresistible 
superiority in a sustainable way. We continue to reduce our footprint and strive for more circular approaches in our supply chain. We’re building partnerships with external organizations to combat some of the most challenging and complex issues we face today. And our employees are committed to ensure that sustainability is built in —  not bolted on — to their everyday work. 
Together, we can create a future that protects our planet, our common home,  
for generations to come. ENVIRONMENTAL  
SUSTAINABILITY
Climate   Forestry   Water   Packaging   
11CLIMATE
In September 2021, we announced a new ambition   to achieve net zero 
greenhouse gas emissions across our operations and supply chain, from raw 
material to retailer, by 2040, as well as interim 2030 goals to make meaningful progress this decade. We also published a comprehensive Climate Transition  
Action Plan  
, which outlines our approach to accelerating climate action and 
the key challenges ahead. 
Our science-based plan to net zero will prioritize cutting most of our 
emissions across our operations and supply chain, from raw material to retailer. For residual emissions that cannot be eliminated, we will use  natural or technical solutions that remove and store carbon. 
Our updated 2030 targets build on our Ambition 2030 goals 
 to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions and include: 
Reducing emissions across our global 
operations by 50% 4. From 2010 to 2021, we have 
reduced absolute Scope 1 & Scope 2 emissions across our global operations 56% through energy efficiency and renewable energy sourcing.  As we continue to reduce emissions, we are also advancing natural climate solutions which will balance any residual emissions from our operations that cannot be eliminated by 2030. Reducing emissions across our supply  chain by 40%5 by 2030. 
Purchasing 100% renewable electricity. We 
are nearing our 2030 goal of purchasing 100% renewable electricity by increasing our global  use to 98%.
Increasing transportation efficiency of  
upstream finished products by 50%4.OUR PROGRESS
4 vs. 2010  baseline
5 per unit of production across priority categories that account for more than 90 % of supply chain emissions vs. 2020  baseline
12
P&G is focused on ensuring we do 
the right things in the right ways —  innovating using science and nature —  for the long term. We see it as our responsibility to ensure no one has  to choose between the products  they use today and the world they  want for tomorrow.
FORESTRY
We use 100% certified pulp in Family Care   and 
will achieve 75% FSC certification, our preferred 
certification, by 2022 with an ambition to reach 100% FSC by 2030. 
We are committed to the responsible sourcing of 
palm oils. We are members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and are committed to RSPO’s 2018 Principles and Criteria (P&Cs). As of 2021, all P&G consumer brands use 100% RSPO certified palm oils. ESG Portal 
 WATER
We are doing our part to conserve and restore water for people and nature. In 2020, we kicked off a partnership with the Bonneville Environmental Foundation (BEF) Business for Water Stewardship (BWS) program through which we are funding six projects in California’s Sacramento River and American River basins that aim to have a long-term positive impact on freshwater ecosystems and water supply for communities and businesses. These projects, combined, expect to restore more than three billion liters of water to people and nature. We have also increased water efficiency in our operations by 25%6 per unit of production and sourced 3.1 billion liters of water from circular sources. Mapping Our Impact PACKAGING
In 2021, 73% of our consumer packaging is recyclable or reusable, and we continue to  work towards 100% recyclable or reusable consumer packaging. 
liters of water to  
people and nature.THREE  
BILLION
We are partnering to  
restore an anticipated 
100%We continue to works toward
recyclable or  
reusable packaging.OUR PROGRESS
13
6 vs. 2010  baseline
Photo credit: Emily Reinhart76%Reinventing the future of  
water with the 50L Home Coalition that aims to make 
of daily water use per  person feel like 500.50 LITERS
of people want  
to do more to  be sustainable  at home.71%
of people want the brands they buy to help them be more environmentally conscious. 
P&G and our brands  
are committed to  
using our voice, reach,  
innovation and expertise  
to make sustainability  
irresistible for all. 
14
We have provided more 
transparency on our website, launching a portal for investors and an interactive map that details our environmental,  social and governance efforts.
Tide and Ariel have helped consumers increase their  use of low-energy laundry cycles to avoid roughly 
metric tons of carbon dioxide.15 MILLIONTide’s Turn to Cold campaign 
encourages consumers to switch  to cold water, reducing energy use  in the wash phase by up to 90%.
Ariel’s new campaign aims to achieve 
a five degree drop in average wash temperatures in Europe by 2025.
-90%
15
From experience, built over nearly 185 years, we know that a sustainably 
strong business depends on maintaining strong ethical, compliance and quality standards. 
It is equally true that for our Citizenship work 
to be credible and impactful, it must be firmly rooted in our Purpose, Values and Principles (PVPs) 
. Most critical though, is that our PVPs 
and standards come to life, by forming the basis through which our employees do their work to improve consumers’ lives each and every day.
At P&G, we serve nearly five billion people around 
the world with our brands. We have operations in nearly 70 countries and have one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality and leadership brands. As we serve the world’s consumers, we believe in, and have publicly committed to, doing what is right and being a good corporate citizen. These practices do not happen through luck. They happen by the thoughtful, principled governance practices we establish across all that we do. This ranges from the design of our organizational structure and leadership culture to our daily commitment to operational discipline, which impacts every action and decision that our employees take — from sourcing quality, safe raw materials that are produced ethically to producing goods that prioritize product safety, transparency and consumer well-being. It requires us to be thoughtful about the communities and stakeholders with whom we work and impact. Ultimately, our approach to leadership in Ethics  & Corporate Responsibility is our commitment  to earn your trust every day.
Click here to learn more ETHICS & 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
16P&G brands are striving to be a force for growth and a force for good. 
Serving five billion people around the world provides a unique opportunity to not only delight consumers through superior product performance,  but also to spark conversations, influence attitudes, change behaviors  and drive positive impact. BRANDS AS A  
FORCE FOR GROWTH 
AND GOOD
Brands have a responsibility to society 
and the environment. To continue pushing ourselves to do even more, we set a goal in 2018 for “100% of our leadership brands to inspire and enable responsible consumption ” 
  
by 2030. It is a glide path for our brands to accelerate by integrating social impact and environmental sustainability as an essential core  to their strategies and executions. 
of our leadership brands have met milestone one of their 2030 journey.65%
17
BRANDS AS A FORCE  
FOR GROWTH AND GOOD
CLICK BELOW TO LEARN ABOUT SOME OF OUR BRANDS’ EFFORTS
Environmental     
Social Impact    Environmental     
Social Impact    
Environmental     
Social Impact    
Environmental     
Social Impact    
Environmental     
Social Impact    
Environmental     
Social Impact    Our brands have a glide path to integrate social impact and 
environmental sustainability as an essential core to their brand strategy and execution by implementing eight ambitious deliverables across product, packaging, communication, consumer use and supply chain. On the journey to meeting  all 2030 criteria, brands are evaluated against certain milestones with distinct requirements. 
Today, 65% of our leadership brands have met milestone one 
by defining meaningful and measurable goals for all eight deliverables and systematically integrating action toward  them into their end-to-end business processes. Moving forward, they will take consistent action to prove meaningful, sustained progress to achieve a measurable positive impact on society  and the environment. 
1
Meaningful  
goals set
Strategy  
integration2
On track  for all goals3
Significant  progress2030
Goals met
18
For generations, we have supported consumers, communities and our own 
employees through difficult times, while providing many of the products 
they count on to take care of their personal health and hygiene, care for 
their families and create healthy homes. 
In another challenging year, there have also 
been brighter moments that remind us of the 
importance of community and how we can 
overcome challenges if we come together to 
create more of these moments. Throughout 
the year, we invited consumers to join us at 
PGGoodEveryDay.com  , PGGoodEveryDay.ca  , 
wirGemeinsamStaerker.de  , PGBonus.ru   and 
other online platforms where consumers help us 
to do more good.
As our ‘ Emotions ’ 
video   shows, we  
are born with eight 
emotions, and the 
most important  
of them is love.Shaped by compassion we have for each other, we 
committed to do 2,021 ‘Acts of Good’ this year for our communities, for equality and for the planet 
we call home. We have met this goal, and the 
stories contained in this report are just a snapshot 
of the work we are doing with our many partners.
In partnership with Katie Couric Media, we 
created the Leading with Love video series, which 
highlights the Bennett Sisters, Emily, Crystal, 
Stacey and Pastor Rudy. See the videos and  
read about their stories here 
.
We hope these stories engage, touch and inspire 
many — including you — to join us in our efforts to 
do more acts of good.ACTS OF GOOD
We committed to do  
2,021 ‘Acts of Good’ this  
year for our communities,  
for equality and for the  
planet we call home. 
19
BACK TO START
Logos are property of their respective owners; used with permission.  
*™/© 2021 Sesame Workshop. All Rights Reserved.Environmental 
Sustainability
Equality  
& Inclusion Community  
Impact
Ethics & Corporate 
Responsibility
6 years in a rowNamed to Forbes 
2021 America’s Best 
Employers For Diversity
20212021
COMPANIESAMERICA’S MOST
Ranked in Top 20
Recipient of the Sesame 
Workshop Corporate 
Leadership Award*Named to Fortune 
2021 Most Admired 
Companies list
100TOP
Most  
Sustainable  Companies  
2021
Named to the 2021  
Global RepTrak® 100
RECOGNITIONS AND AWARDS
Here are just a few of the external recognitions we’ve received this year in our Citizenship priority areas.
The information in this report covers the period of  
July 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. Questions related to this  report can be directed to mediateam.im@pg.com .ABOUT OUR  
CITIZENSHIP  
REPORT
This summary shares a few 
examples of the work being  led across the Company. 
Explore more at  
www.pg.com/citizenship 
. 
© 2021 Procter & Gamble