2021 Corporate 
Responsibility 
Report
Pursuing Our Purpose  
for Long-Term Value  
Creation and Positive  
Impact on a Global ScaleINTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX 2Letter to Our Stakeholders 3
2021 Highlights 5
ESG Goals and Commitments 6
Our Company and Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility  7
 About IDEXX 7
 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility 10
Innovation and Access  12
 Innovating to Enhance Health and Well-Being 14
 Expanding Access to Support Health and Well-Being 17
Environment 19
 Taking Climate Action 21
 Reducing Our Operational Impact 22
 Advancing Product Stewardship and Circular Economy 25
Social  28
 People and Culture 30
  Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 31
  Talent and Development 34
  Employee Well-Being 36
  Workplace Health and Safety  37
 Responsible Supply Chain 38
 Community Impact: IDEXX Foundation and Community Engagement 39
Governance 45
 Corporate Governance 47
 Global Ethics and Compliance  49
 Risk Management, Privacy, and Cybersecurity 51
 Policies, Commitments, and Disclosures 53
ESG Appendix 54
 Data Summary, 2019-2021 55
 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index 59
 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index 61
 Progress on Goals from 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report 65About this Report
Our 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report provides an update 
on the progress we’ve made and is a look to the future on our 
continued commitment to enhance the health and well-being 
of pets, people, and livestock. This report focuses on IDEXX’s 
material environmental, social, and governance (ESG) topics in 
alignment with reporting standards and frameworks, such as 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which 
are detailed in our ESG Appendix . The report also recognizes 
the important role we play in helping to meet the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Unless otherwise noted, all performance reporting covers January 
1, 2021 to December 31, 2021. In some instances, reported 
data may be estimates or rounded. All financial information is 
reported in U.S. dollars. We have also included selected ESG 
information in our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our 2022 
Proxy Statement, which are available on our corporate website 
at www.idexx.com. For more information, see Our Approach to 
Corporate Responsibility  section of this report or visit Corporate 
Responsibility at IDEXX .
Note: Inclusion of information in this report is not an indication that the 
subject or information is material to our business or operating results or 
material to investors or that such information is required to be disclosed 
in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
Materiality, as used in this report, is distinct from, and should not be 
confused with, such term as defined for SEC reporting purposes, and 
the information included in, and any ESG factors or issues identified as 
material for purposes of, this report may not be considered material for 
SEC reporting purposes.Contents
3 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Letter to Our Stakeholders 
At IDEXX, we are driven by our Purpose to enhance the 
health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock, 
and we aim to do that while making a positive impact 
on a global scale, aligned with our strategic priorities. 
Our 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report reflects our 
ongoing commitment to purpose-driven impact. 
We have made significant progress on our 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) journey 
since our last report by increasingly integrating ESG 
initiatives and efforts into our business processes 
and strategy as we advance our innovation agenda, 
expand our global presence, continue to support 
and partner with our customers, and strengthen and 
engage our talent. Through our focus on innovation, 
we are creating better experiences for our customers 
and their patients, as well as for our employees. Since 
our last report, we completed ESG materiality and 
carbon footprint assessments, clarified ESG oversight 
responsibilities of our Board and committees, and 
disclosed our latest Consolidated EEO-1 data on our 
website, increasing transparency in the composition 
of our global and U.S. workforce. We strive for 
transparency and enhanced disclosure of our ESG 
practices and progress at IDEXX, while working 
towards opportunities to increase our impact.
We are proud to share our aspirations by announcing 
new ESG goals and commitments.Taking Action to Reduce Our Environmental Impact
Since our last report, we’ve been working to better 
understand our own environmental impact and how 
we can contribute to a healthy, sustainable future 
for all. We believe that investing in environmental 
sustainability supports our Purpose and helps us 
create value for all stakeholders. We are focused 
on reducing our own operations’ impact on the 
environment and have set the following Scope 1 & 2 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions target based on 
guidelines set by the Science-Based Target Initiative’s 
1.5 degree pathway as aligned with the goals of the 
UN Paris Agreement, including:
• Reduce Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 
by 37.8% by 2030
• Source 100% renewable electricity by 2030
We are also pursuing efforts to further reduce and 
sustainably manage waste, conserve water, and 
advance product stewardship and circular economy 
to minimize the environmental impact of our products 
and packaging. 
Accelerating Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
At IDEXX, we know diversity, equity, and inclusion 
(DEI) are essential drivers of our innovation and 
success. Through our DEI efforts, we aim to make 
our global workplaces dynamic, supportive of all our 
employees, and representative of our customers and communities. Our evolving DEI strategy is focused 
on advancing equity at the individual, company, and 
community levels. To continue to drive meaningful 
change in 2021 and beyond, we:
• Increased the representation of women 
in global senior leadership to 34% in 
2021, a 4 point increase from 2020
• Focused on inclusive leadership training and, 
as of the issuance of this report, trained 100% 
of global people managers to recognize and 
mitigate unconscious bias and foster belonging
• Continued to advance our pay equity 
practices with our 2022 assessment 
confirming our global pay practices are fair 
and equitable. For more information, see 
the Pay Equity section of this report
We are committed to accelerating inclusion, equity, 
and more diverse representation across the company. 
We have developed aspirations for change to continue 
to make our workplace more inclusive, including:
• Maintain gender balance in global management and 
ensure programs are in place that support career 
advancement opportunities for women across the 
enterprise, including in senior leadership
• Increase representation of underrepresented 
groups in U.S. management to 33% by 2030
“We want to leave the world 
in a better place than we 
found it. For us, this means 
taking action to enhance 
the lives of pets as well as 
those entrusted with their 
care. Through initiatives 
powered by our people, 
innovation, and insights, 
we help improve the 
standard of care for pets 
and livestock, keep drinking 
water safe, and reduce our 
environmental footprint.” 
·  JAY MAZELSKY  PRESIDENT  
AND CEO, IDEXX
4 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Amplifying Our Impact
As a purpose-driven organization, we are committed 
to creating a positive and lasting impact around the 
world. Through the IDEXX Foundation, employee 
volunteer efforts, and corporate contributions, we 
strive to expand access to care for animals and 
protect life’s essentials, like clean drinking water. 
We are also helping to build the future veterinary 
workforce through our ongoing support of STEM 
education programs and scholarships. In 2021, we:
• Contributed $3.4 million to social initiatives, 
including IDEXX Foundation grants supporting 
36 solutions-oriented global initiatives, corporate 
contributions, and product donations for disaster 
response, education, and community outreach
• Announced a multi-year $3.6 million initiative 
with the Tuskegee University College of 
Veterinary Medicine and the IDEXX Foundation 
that includes nine full scholarships and 
mental health support, taking further action 
to advance DEI in veterinary medicine
We are also committed to supporting the health and 
safety of our employees, customers, and suppliers 
impacted by extreme climate events and other crises. 
In response to the devastating war in Ukraine, we 
donated rabies testing services and contributed to 
humanitarian efforts and organizations helping people 
and animals throughout the impacted region. You can 
read more about our response to the Ukraine war in 
the Community Impact  section of this report.
The accomplishments highlighted in this report were 
achieved in the face of the ongoing pandemic and 
guided by the continued leadership, resilience, and 
collaboration of our worldwide colleagues. I could not 
be prouder of or more grateful for the contributions of our more than 10,300 colleagues across the company. 
I am excited about the opportunity to continue 
to contribute to our Purpose and further our ESG 
commitments to realize a healthier, sustainable future 
for generations to come.  
· JAY MAZELSKY  PRESIDENT AND CEO, IDEXX
Above: Jay Mazelsky with fellow IDEXX employees celebrating 
the 2021 grand opening of our International Distribution 
Center in Memphis, Tennessee, USA.5 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Social Environment Innovation and Access Governance
Women in global management²48% 30% 
Women on Board of Directors5
20% 
Racial or ethnic diversity 
on Board of Directors5in Research & Development$161 million
Reduce Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 
by 37.8% by 2030¹, aligned with UN 
Paris Agreement’s 1.5° C goalSet Emissions Goal
Reduction in Scope 1 & 2 GHG 
emissions since 20198.4% 
Signed new 20-year renewable 
power purchase agreements that 
are projected to cover 25% of 
global electricity needs by 2025Renewable Energy  
Global people leaders completed 
training in leading diversity, inclusion, 
and belonging by June 2022100%Updated cybersecurity incident 
response playbookCybersecurity 
Playbook
IDEXX Foundation multi-year projects 
initiated as of December 2021$6.9  millionValue of continuing education credit 
offerings with IDEXX Learning Center$3.5  million
SNAP® Tests donated for 
disaster response, education, 
and community outreach 25,048
Student engagements at 34 veterinary 
schools in IDEXX University Program15,877
Code of Ethics
Refreshed training launched 
for all employeesESG Oversight 
Updated Board committee charters 
and Corporate Governance 
Guidelines to clarify ESG 
oversight accountabilities2021 Highlights
A year of impact as we pursue our Purpose to create long-term value by enhancing the health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock
Maintain gender balance³ in 
global management² and increase 
underrepresented groups4 in 
U.S. management² by 2030Set Diversity Goals
1 Emissions target is based on 2021 data as baseline. Target aligned  
 with United Nations Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting warming to 
 1.5 degrees Celsius
2 Employees in people leadership roles (all levels)
3 Gender balance refers to the equitable representation of  
 women and men between the range of 45% and 55%4 Based on self-identification by our U.S. employees. The  
 term ‘underrepresented groups’ is defined as African American/  
 Black, Asian, Hispanic/Latinx, American Indian Alaska Native,  
 Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races,  
 as well as other underrepresented and/or vulnerable groups5 Based on self-identification by members of the Board of Directors;  
 data as of the date of the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders~330k  lbs
Polystyrene foam avoided per 
year (anticipated) from U.S. cold 
consumables with new sustainable 
packaging initiative (~150k kg)6 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Social
Maintain gender balance³ in 
global management2 and ensure 
programs are in place to support 
career advancement opportunities 
for women across the enterprise  
2021 status: 48% women
Increase representation of 
underrepresented groups4 in U.S. 
management2 to 33%  
by 2030
Continue to provide career 
opportunities for women in STEM 
roles6 globally  
2021 status: 59% women
Increase annual global employee 
volunteering to 15,000 hours  
by 2025  
2021 status: 4,777 hours Expand access to care for 
>500,000 animals in underserved 
communities by 2025 though 
our global social initiatives8
Expand access to mental 
health and well-being support 
for veterinary students and 
veterinary professionals 
around the world through our 
global social initiatives8
  Conduct human rights risk 
assessment of our supply  
chain in 2023ESG Goals and Commitments
Environment
Reduce our operational 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
(Scope 1 & 2) by 37.8% by 20301 
Aligned with UN Paris Agreement’s 1.5°C 
2021 baseline: 34,027 MT CO2e
Source 100% renewable  
electricity by 2030  
2021 status: 0.4% 
Advance understanding of our 
Scope 3 GHG emissions7
Integrate sustainability 
considerations as required 
criteria for new product 
development and design
Reduce amount of plastic and 
other material waste from 
current products and packaging1 Emissions target is based on 2021 data as baseline. Target aligned  
 with United Nations Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting warming to 1.5  
 degrees Celsius 
2 Employees in people leadership roles (all levels)
3 Gender balance refers to the equitable representation of women and men  
 between the range of 45% and 55%
4  Based on self-identification by our U.S. employees. The term 
‘underrepresented groups’ is defined as African American/Black, Asian, 
Hispanic/Latinx, American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other 
Pacific Islander, and two or more races, as well as other underrepresented 
and/or vulnerable groups6 Includes STEM professional and technical support roles in computer  
 and math (e.g., software developers), engineering (e.g., process  
 engineers), physical and life sciences (e.g., senior scientists), veterinary  
 professionals (e.g., clinical pathologists, professional services  
 veterinarians, or medical laboratory technicians), and STEM managerial  
 (e.g., laboratory managers)
7 Completed an initial Scope 3 screening and plan to work with suppliers  
 and logistics partners to gather a more complete picture of value chain  
 emissions and opportunities to reduce our impact
8 Global social initiatives include grants from the IDEXX Foundation and  
 contributions from corporate lines of businessOur new ESG goals and commitments are informed by our ESG materiality and carbon footprint assessments, as well as input from stakeholders. 
They reflect the ongoing pursuit of our Purpose to create long-term value by enhancing the health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock.
Governance
Launch a standalone 
Conflicts of Interest Policy 
that supplements our Code 
of Ethics by end of 2022
Introduce an automated tool 
for self-disclosing, resolving, 
and documenting potential 
conflicts of interest by 2023
Adoption and global roll 
out of a policy on social 
initiatives and community 
engagement, including 
charitable contributions,  
by end of 2022
Please see our Forward-Looking Statements  section at the end of this report ‣7 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Our Company and Our Approach 
to Corporate Responsibility
2021 Company Highlights 
10,350
Total Global Employees  
in 33 countries and 115+  locations  
in Research & Development
Countries and territories where 
products and services are soldCompany Revenue
$161 million  
175+$3.2 billion
90%Achieve and 
sustain market 
leadership
Exceed the 
expectations  
of customers
Empower and 
reward our 
employees
Innovate  
with 
intelligenceCultivate 
entrepreneurial 
spiritContribute 
to our 
communitiesOur Purpose
Our Purpose is to be a great company that 
creates exceptional long-term value for our 
customers, employees, and shareholders by 
enhancing the health and well-being of pets, 
people, and livestock.
Revenue from Companion 
Animal Group business Our Guiding  
Principles
About IDEXX: Who We Are
At IDEXX, we are driven by a desire to contribute 
to something bigger than ourselves by making 
a positive social impact on a global scale. 
Headquartered in Maine, IDEXX employs more 
than 10,000 people on six continents and offers 
solutions and products to customers in more than 
175 countries.
A member of the S&P 500® Index, IDEXX is a leader in pet healthcare 
innovation. Our diagnostic and software products and services create 
clarity in the complex, constantly evolving world of veterinary medicine. 
We support longer, fuller lives for pets by delivering insights and 
solutions that help the veterinary community around the world make 
confident decisions—to advance medical care, improve efficiency, and 
build thriving practices. Our innovations also help ensure the safety of 
milk and water across the world and maintain the health and well-being 
of people and livestock.8 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Companion Animal Group
IDEXX Companion Animal Group (CAG) is a 
global leader in pet healthcare innovation. 
CAG provides diagnostic and information 
management-based products and services 
for veterinarians, including in-clinic diagnostic 
solutions, reference laboratory services, 
and veterinary software and services. Our 
diagnostic and software products and services 
create clarity in the complex, constantly 
evolving world of veterinary medicine. We 
help pets lead longer, fuller lives by giving 
veterinarians the tools, technology, and insights 
to see clearly and get the answers they need.IDEXX Water
IDEXX Water is a global leader in water 
microbiology, providing tests that ensure 
the safety of drinking water and other water 
supplies for more than 2.5 billion people in 
100 countries around the world. Our innovative 
testing solutions provide easy, rapid, and 
accurate detection and quantification of 
bacterial indicators of fecal contamination, as 
well as common microbial pathogens, such 
as Legionella pneumophila and Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa . IDEXX Livestock, Poultry, and Dairy
IDEXX Livestock, Poultry, and Dairy provides 
diagnostic tests and services to monitor the 
health of herd and flock animals worldwide, 
improve producer efficiency, and ensure the 
quality of milk. Our diagnostic solutions help 
livestock veterinarians and producers identify 
and manage disease for confidence in healthy 
herds and flocks. Over the last ten years, nearly 
1.1 billion IDEXX livestock diagnostic tests 
have been sold around the globe.OPTI Medical Systems
OPTI Medical Systems, Inc. specializes in the 
design and manufacturing of point-of-care 
and laboratory diagnostic solutions for human 
medicine, such as blood gas and electrolyte 
analyzers. Used in emergency rooms and 
intensive care units in more than 100 countries, 
OPTI analyzers combine accuracy with 
convenience and clinical flexibility to support 
time-critical diagnostic testing. Through OPTI 
Medical, we also provide human COVID-19 
testing products and laboratory services. 
Our Business: What We Do9 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Listening to Our Frontline Workers
Our employees on the frontline, who comprise approximately 
40% of our workforce, are engaged in essential onsite work to 
make sure we deliver on our Purpose to keep pets and people 
healthy and safe. Our 2020 employee survey brought to light 
the different needs of frontline employees compared to those 
typically working in the office. The ongoing transformation of 
the labor market has continued to highlight these differences 
as we compete for talent.
In 2021, we began an initiative to actively engage 
in understanding better what matters most to 
frontline workers and what drives their engagement 
and retention. The initiative is focused on frontline 
employees in operations, reference labs, and in some 
commercial sales and customer support roles. By continuously listening to our frontline employees, many of 
whom reflect the diversity of our workforce, we are gaining 
new insights into what is important to them and perspective 
on their different experiences. Our findings thus far show they 
value having pathways for growth and development, working 
for an effective and engaged manager, and feeling rewarded 
for the work they do.
We’ve already taken some action, including increasing the 
frequency of bonus payments to twice per year for our U.S. 
operations and reference lab workers and advancing market 
competitive pay increases, as appropriate. In 2022, we are 
focused on expanding career progression programs, such 
as career ladders, and leadership development resources for 
frontline workers and we’ve rolled out expanded mental health 
benefits for all U.S. employees and their family members, 
including those on the frontline.Our Ongoing Response to COVID-19 
Protecting Employee Safety and Health 
Starting in 2020 and continuing throughout 2021, we took quick action to protect the 
safety and health of our employees as the COVID-19 pandemic spread globally, including:
• Transitioning to working from home for the majority of employees
• Aligning business travel and in-person meeting policies to public health 
guidance in order to promote employee safety and wellness
• Implementing additional safety and hygiene measures 
and protocols for frontline employees
• Assisting employees with work-from-home funds and 
adding paid time off and caregiving support 
• Introducing flexible work options and hybrid work 
models to support new ways of working 
Supporting Our Customers 
We ensured ongoing supply of essential products and services to our customers, 
including: 
• Maintaining safe and continued operations of our global 
manufacturing, distribution, and reference laboratories sites
• Modifying some of our commercial and business practices to protect the 
health and safety of field professionals and veterinarian customers
• Making available short-term customer relief through flexibility 
in payment terms and contract requirements 
• Effectively managing pandemic-related supply chain and logistics issues to 
ensure product availability and business continuity for our customers
Delivering through Innovation
We also continued to develop new products and services in the fight against COVID-19, 
including Water SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR test kit and protocol for wastewater testing, creating 
an important epidemiological tool to track the prevalence of COVID-19 in communities. In 
addition, we continue to supply OPTI SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR test kits for human COVID-19 
and support the State of Maine’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention testing 
laboratory, processing more than 500,000 tests since 2020.
10 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Pursuing our Purpose for long-term value creation and 
positive impact on a global scale
We know everything we do is interconnected. Through our science-driven innovations, 
we deliver insights and solutions that support longer, fuller lives for pets and improve 
efficiency for veterinarians, make access to clean water a reality for millions of people 
around the world, and provide diagnostics to manage herd and flock health and 
productivity. We also recognize the importance of environmental sustainability and how 
a healthy planet is essential for animals and people to thrive. In addition, we believe 
that our efforts to cultivate a collaborative, diverse, and inclusive culture at IDEXX and 
develop a strategy for our supply chain to further advance responsible and sustainable 
sourcing and support human rights across our entire value chain will help us to attract, 
motivate, develop, and retain talented employees at all levels who are aligned with and 
passionate about our Purpose. Our sound governance policies and practices enable 
effective management of our enterprise risks and opportunities, including ESG risks and 
opportunities, for the benefit of IDEXX and our stakeholders. In all that we do, we seek to 
lead responsibly, sustainably, and ethically to create long-term value and lasting, positive 
impact on a global scale and build a healthier future for all.
We support the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and our 
corporate responsibility focus areas and ESG priorities are aligned to focus on the nine 
goals we can most uniquely impact:Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility
People & Community Governance, Ethics, and 
Compliance Our Corporate Responsibility Focus Areas and Priorities
Our approach to Corporate Responsibility focuses on our most material issues, as identified by our stakeholders, and the areas 
where we can make a positive impact. In alignment with our top ESG priorities, we have organized our activities in the following 
areas: Environmental Sustainability, People and Community, and Governance, Ethics, and Compliance.
Business Ethics & Compliance
Product Quality & Safety
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation & 
ConnectivityDiversity, Equity & Inclusion
Talent & Culture
Employee Health, Safety &  
Well-being
Supply Chain Management
Human Rights
Access & Affordability
Social Initiatives & Community 
EngagementClimate & Energy 
Waste & Sustainable Packaging
Product Stewardship & Circular 
Economy Environmental Sustainability
Accelerating environmental 
sustainability through innovation 
and continuous improvementCultivating a collaborative, diverse, 
and inclusive culture to help people 
reach their potential, respecting 
people and communities across 
our value chain, and amplifying our 
social impact across the globeLeading responsibly to fulfill our 
ethical responsibilities and legal 
obligations, and meet stakeholder 
expectations
Environment Social GovernanceESG Priorities
11 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Corporate Responsibility and ESG 
Governance 
At the Board of Directors level, our full Board oversees our 
overall strategy and management of material ESG risks and 
opportunities, and our Board committees support the Board.
The Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee 
oversees our approach to environmental sustainability and 
social matters (other than human capital and talent), such 
as climate change and sustainability, supply chain and 
human rights, and charitable and political contributions. 
The Compensation and Talent Committee oversees 
human capital and talent, including DEI. As of 2022, the 
Audit Committee reviews controls and procedures for 
disclosures relating to ESG matters. Our senior management 
regularly reviews our material ESG activities, practices, 
and disclosures with the Board and the Board committees, 
including in conjunction with the Board’s review of the results 
of our annual enterprise risk assessment and strategic 
planning processes. For more information, see our 2022 
Proxy Statement . 
At the management level, IDEXX’s Director of Global 
Corporate Responsibility, who reports directly to our Chief 
Human Resources Officer (CHRO), oversees our corporate 
responsibility program and is responsible for advancing our 
ESG priorities, working in collaboration with cross-functional 
steering committees. The Corporate Responsibility Executive 
Committee provides strategic guidance and reviews progress 
related to goals on a regular basis. This committee includes 
the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General 
Counsel, CHRO, Chief Marketing Officer, and Executive 
Vice President of Operations. Environmental sustainability 
is overseen by our Environmental Sustainability Steering 
Committee. This committee is comprised of representativesESG Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement
Understanding the ESG issues that matter most to our business and stakeholders helps 
us to prioritize our activities and report on them effectively and transparently. In 2021, 
we conducted our first ESG materiality assessment with the suppor t of an external 
consultancy. The materiality assessment collected feedback from a range of global 
internal and external stakeholders that was benchmarked by peer best practices and 
included an analysis of the global regulatory landscape relevant to ESG issues. We commit 
to periodically refreshing our materiality assessment moving forward. 
We also engage with key stakeholders, both internally and externally, on a variety of topics 
and issues and through different mechanisms. Key stakeholders include: employees, 
senior leaders, customers, investors, suppliers, and community partners. Examples of our 
stakeholder engagement are provided throughout this report. 
From the ESG materiality assessment, we identified several top priorities from among 
the 20 most significant ESG topics for our sector. Highlighted on the previous page, they 
include: climate and energy; diversity, equity, and inclusion; packaging sustainability; talent 
and culture; supply chain management; and human rights, among others. 
from Operations, Supply Chain, Legal, Technology, Research 
& Development, and key business functions. Our ESG 
Working Group includes representatives from Corporate 
Responsibility, Operations, Supply Chain, Human Resources, 
Legal, Investor Relations, and Communications. These 
groups periodically engage with external stakeholders on 
IDEXX’s ESG initiatives.
We continue to advance the integration of ESG risks into our 
enterprise risk assessment and management processes and 
ESG opportunities into our strategic and business planning. 
Discussion of our climate-related risks and opportunities are 
highlighted in our TCFD index in the ESG Appendix  ‣Employee Engagement
Environmental 
Stewardship 
CommitteeGreen Team 
NetherlandsEmployee-Led 
CommunitiesSupporting Working Groups
Environmental Sustainability 
Steering CommitteeDEI Council
ESG Working GroupCEO and Executive Leadership
Corporate Responsibility Executive CommitteeBoard of Directors
Audit Committee
Compensation and Talent 
Committee
Governance and Corporate 
Responsibility CommitteeESG Governance
12 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Innovation and Access
At IDEXX, everything we do is 
interconnected. Our diagnostic and 
software products and services create 
clarity in a complex and evolving world. 
We deliver insights and solutions that 
support longer, fuller lives for pets, 
improve efficiency, and protect life’s 
essentials, like clean drinking water.
We follow the science to drive 
innovation that enhances the health 
and well-being of animals, people, 
and the environment. We help the 
communities we serve thrive by 
advancing the standard of veterinary 
care, making access to clean water 
a reality, contributing diagnostics to 
support herd health, and amplifying the 
power of the human-animal bond.In this section:
• Innovation and Access Highlights
• Innovating to Enhance Health and 
Well-Being
• Expanding Access to Support 
Health and Well-Being 13 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
13
Innovation and Access Highlights 
25,048
SNAP® Tests donated for 
disaster relief, education, 
and community outreach$3.5 million 
Value of continuing education  
credit offerings with IDEXX 
Learning Center $161  million 
in Research & Development34 
IDEXX University Program  
veterinary schools in North 
America and the Caribbean
39,000+
Users in IDEXX Learning 
Center in 15 countries15,877 
Student engagements in 
IDEXX University ProgramezyVet Acquisition  
Bringing cloud-enabled software 
solutions to our customers to raise 
the standard of care and support 
veterinary practice efficiency$681k 
Value of product donations 
made to support disaster 
relief, education, and 
community outreach
14 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Innovating to Enhance Health and Well-Being 
As a global leader in pet healthcare innovation, we help elevate the standard of care around the world. Our diagnostic and 
software products and services create clarity in the complex, constantly evolving world of veterinary medicine. We support 
longer, fuller lives for pets by delivering insights and solutions that help the busy veterinary professional make confident 
decisions—to advance medical care, improve efficiency, and build thriving practices with engaged teams.
Advancing the Standard of Veterinary Care 
As veterinarians strive to advance the standard of care for their patients, we continue to support them through new product 
innovations and enhancements to products and services that support the health and well-being of pets. Featured below are 
some recent examples of innovations to advance the standard of veterinary care:
SNAP® 4Dx® Plus Test 
The SNAP 4Dx® Plus Test 
now features clinical 
decision support to help 
veterinarians interpret results 
faster. Following a result, 
clinical decision support on 
VetConnect® PLUS provides 
follow-up considerations, along 
with patient-specific interpretive 
assistance, to help veterinarians 
identify evidence of active 
infection and determine 
next steps more quickly. 
Additional enhancements 
include increased sensitivity 
for Anaplasma and extended 
room temperature storage that 
will help staff to save time.Fecal Dx® Antigen Testing
Fecal Dx® antigen testing 
is expanded to include the 
detection of flea tapeworm in 
addition to current tests for 
hookworm, roundworm, and 
whipworm. With this addition, 
Fecal Dx antigen testing 
detects up to five times more 
of these common intestinal 
parasites, and earlier, than 
fecal flotation alone.9 This 
provides veterinarians with 
valuable insights as part of 
annual wellness screens.
ProCyte One®
Our next-generation, point-
of-care hematology analyzer 
offers accurate, real-time 
blood test results, is easy to 
use and affordable, and takes 
up less space compared 
to other analyzers. ProCyte 
One makes accurate in-clinic 
hematology testing accessible 
to veterinarians worldwide, 
helping to advance pet health 
care globally. 
Learn more about the 
sustainable design 
considerations  
of ProCyte One  ‣ 
Catalyst® SDMA Test
The Catalyst® SDMA Test, the 
early indicator for a decline 
in kidney function, features 
a new innovative technology 
that brings reagents onboard 
the slide, allowing it to be 
run more efficiently as part 
of routine chemistry profiles. 
This enhancement will save 
time and simplify workflows, 
facilitating faster delivery of 
results and the potential for 
earlier clinical interventions 
and better outcomes for pets.
Learn more about the 
sustainability of the 
Catalyst® SDMA test  ‣Helping Veterinarians Navigate the Complexities of Managing Cancer Cases 
Cancer care in pets is a vast unmet need. There are roughly six million 
new cancer diagnoses in dogs in the U.S. each year, and a similar number 
in cats. 10 Approximately one in three dogs will develop cancer during their 
lifetime. ¹¹ With the goal to enhance the lives of pets, IDEXX continues 
to expand what’s possible with recently broadened reference laboratory 
offerings in North America that build on our expertise in cancer pathology. 
Through new innovative offerings like next-generation DNA sequencing 
technology and liquid biopsy testing, we are providing veterinarians 
with comprehensive cancer diagnostics and support services to help 
them address the increasing demand to diagnose and treat cancer. 
Customer-Facing Software and Connectivity Innovations 
Acquisition of ezyVet® 
Acquired in 2021, ezyVet® is a fast-growing, 
innovative practice information management 
system (PIMS), helping us further expand 
our world-class cloud software offerings and 
support customers with technology solutions 
that raise the standard of care for patients, 
improve practice efficiency, and enable more 
effective communication with pet owners.VetConnect PLUS Mobile App
Recently enhanced mobile cloud-based 
software provides veterinary professionals 
all the patient information they need in 
the palm of their hand. Updates include 
streamlined case management, easier-to-
read reports, and more intuitive navigation—
all available in multiple languages—allowing 
veterinarians to spend less time looking for 
information and more time with patients.
9 Data on file at IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. Westbrook, Maine USA 
10 Animal Cancer Foundation
11 The National Canine Cancer Foundation
1 million suspected 
cancer case 
submissions 
reviewed by IDEXX 
global pathologists 
annually915 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX15
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT:
Innovate IDEXX
Launched in 2020, Innovate IDEXX is bi-annual 
event where teams come together in a two-
day hackathon format to collaborate on new 
innovation concepts to a group of judges. 
More than 150 employees participated in 
the 2021 hacks, presenting a wide range of 
creative and innovative ideas, many with a 
sustainability or social impact focus. For 
example, one project team shared an idea 
to use machine learning to help identify 
infectious disease outbreaks before they 
happen.Enhancing Disease Detection Efforts 
We are committed to innovation in diagnostic technologies to improve the safety of water and enhance early 
detection of disease in humans and animals worldwide.
Monitoring the Spread of COVID-19 
through Wastewater Surveillance
Offering an early warning sign of the presence 
of SARS-CoV-2 in a community, wastewater 
surveillance provides advance notice of spikes or 
declines in infections, often several days before 
individual testing data. IDEXX first introduced 
the Water SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR Test in 2020 to 
support wastewater surveillance to track the 
prevalence of COVID-19 in communities. The 
product was one of the first fully validated tests 
using real world samples from wastewater 
treatment facilities in different geographies. 
IDEXX continues to supply this important 
epidemiological tool to health departments around 
the world, helping them provide important data 
that inform sound public health decisions. Safeguarding Public Health by Testing 
for Legionnaires’ Disease
Legionnaires’ disease is fatal in one out of ten 
cases, yet it is highly preventable. The severe, often 
fatal respiratory disease is most often caused by 
Legionella pneumophila bacteria contaminating 
water systems and becoming aerosolized. The 
risk of the bacteria proliferating is particularly high 
when water sits for long periods in the pipes of 
an unused building, such as during COVID-related 
shutdowns. Regular testing for L. pneumophila as 
part of water management plans can help reduce 
the risk of outbreaks. IDEXX Water partners with 
public health laboratories, drinking water utilities, 
and other public and private entities to improve 
Legionella risk management and the safety of 
engineered water systems.
The IDEXX Foundation is investing in nature-positive projects to support access to clean water and build climate 
resilience, including support for charity: water , a nonprofit organization on a mission to tackle the water crisis. For 
more information, visit the Community Impact  section of this report ‣Improving Diagnostics for Better Human Health
Introduced in 2022, the OPTI® SARS-CoV-2/Influenza A/B RT-PCR Test identifies and differentiates the SARS-
CoV-2, influenza A, and influenza B viruses simultaneously. Use of this test is ideal for identifying the cause of 
symptoms during influenza season, distinguishing between the virus that causes COVID-19 and influenza to 
support appropriate treatment options. The test has been approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
and granted US FDA Emergency Use Authorization (EUA).
The OPTI® CCA-TS2 analyzer provides fast and accurate blood gas and lactate analysis results to assist in 
the early detection of sepsis, a life-threatening issue in hospital settings, and support timely interventions and 
improved outcomes.
16 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
16
Collaborating on One Health 
At IDEXX, we recognize the importance of working together to help 
solve problems that impact the health and well-being of animals, 
people, and the environment. For example, we’re partnering with 
the University of Guelph’s Ontario Veterinary College in Canada—a 
global leader in advancing an interdisciplinary One Health approach 
to antimicrobial resistance (AMR) research. One Health is an 
approach that recognizes that the health of people is closely 
connected to the health of animals and our shared environment. 
A leading cause of death worldwide, AMR occurs when bacteria, 
viruses, fungi, and parasites change over time and no longer 
respond to medicines, making infections harder to treat. Through 
our collaboration with the University of Guelph, we are working to fill 
an important gap in knowledge about AMR in companion animals, 
who interact closely with humans, and explore potential solutions 
to fighting AMR infections.
Supporting Farmer Livelihoods with Diagnostic Innovations
Controlling African Swine Fever (ASF) 
In recent years, China has experienced several 
outbreaks of ASF, a fatal and highly infectious 
disease in pigs, that has significantly impacted 
pig farmers. The Livestock, Poultry, and Dairy 
(LPD) team developed the RealPCR ASFV DNA 
Test to help farmers quickly identify and control 
ASF outbreaks. LPD also works closely with 
farmers to advise on testing and mitigation plans 
to improve animal health and support farmer 
livelihoods.Testing for Pregnancy in Bovine 
The Alertys™ milk and blood sample-based 
pregnancy tests complement and in some  
cases replace manual methods. Less invasive 
and safer for the animal, the easy-to-use, Alertys™ 
OnFarm test provides answers in minutes, 
allowing farmers to take action to improve the 
health and productivity of the herd.Screening for Avian Flu 
Poultry are very susceptible to avian influenza 
viruses and can die in large numbers. In 2022, 
a highly contagious avian flu hit U.S. farms and 
chicken yards, spreading to nearly half of U.S. 
states in less than two months. Our MultiS-
Screen Ab Test for Avian Influenza supports 
screening and monitoring of infected flocks to 
help farmers better manage outbreaks.
“As evidenced by the COVID pandemic, sharing 
data more widely has allowed scientific 
advances to increase at an incredible pace, and 
it is an important part of combating animal, 
plant, environmental, and human health issues.” 
· DR. THERESA BERNARDO, PROFESSOR, IDEXX  
  CHAIR IN EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES AND  
  PREVENTIVE HEAL THCARE UNIVERSITY OF  
  GUELPH, ONTARIO VETERINARY COLLEGEIDEXX Chair in Emerging Technologies 
and Preventive Healthcare
Our partnership with the Ontario Veterinary 
College includes support for the IDEXX 
Endowed Chair for Emerging Technologies 
and Preventive Healthcare that was awarded 
to Dr. Theresa Bernardo in 2020. In the search 
for solutions to complex issues like infectious 
disease and antimicrobial resistance, Dr. 
Bernardo is a globally connected innovator 
in addressing complex health problems 
through technology. Along with her team 
of researchers, she aims to improve animal 
health and enhance the sustainability of 
veterinary practice by leveraging health data 
and information technology to track the global 
spread of animal diseases.
Photo: Dr. Bernardo and some of her collaborators at VMX 
2022. From left to right: Dr. Julie Funk (Dean, University 
of Arizona College of Veterinary Medicine), Alexis Urrea 
(veterinary student, University of Wisconsin), Dr. Bernardo, 
and Dr. Barr Hadar (PhD candidate, University of Guelph)17 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Expanding Access to Support Health and Well-Being
Preparing for Day One Competencies:  
IDEXX University Program
The IDEXX University Program partners with 34 leading veterinary 
schools in North America and the Caribbean to prepare students 
for day one competencies—the practical and core skills needed to 
succeed from their first day in veterinary practice. In instructional 
settings and through experiential learning opportunities, our educational 
programs help veterinarians and technicians in training develop 
communication and practical skills critical to service delivery and 
overall quality of care for patients. This year, we plan to expand the 
University Program beyond North America and the Caribbean with 
the addition of a veterinary school in the United Kingdom (UK).With the IDEXX VetLab® Student Experience, students also have the 
opportunity to gain hands-on experience in diagnostic tools, such as 
rapid assays and in-house diagnostics, as well as in radiology and 
practice information management systems. The program provides 
universities a full suite of IDEXX in-house diagnostic analyzers for 
veterinary students to use during primary care rotations and for 
community outreach, such as free and low-cost community care 
and screening events. Students gain practical experience with the in-
house diagnostics and universities gain resources to serve their local 
communities. With many of these community-based programs, we 
donate SNAP tests and help subsidize in-clinic diagnostic services for 
pet owners facing economic challenges. Veterinary schools 
in North America 
and the Caribbean 34
Total student 
engagements 
in 2021 15,877
12 World Bank, 2020 DataExpanding Access to Health Care in 
Remote Settings 
Our next generation of blood gas analyzers 
are portable, battery-powered, standalone 
instruments that require minimal 
maintenance, making them ideal for use in 
emergency care and remote settings. With 
more than 3 billion people in the world living 
in rural areas,12 our analyzers are ideal for 
use in these hard to reach regions. The OPTI 
Medical Systems group supports initiatives 
with local health systems and nonprofit 
groups to distribute our medical instruments 
where they are needed most. During the 
pandemic, we donated OPTI analyzers to 
emergency field hospitals treating COVID-19 
patients in China and India. We also provided 
OPTI instruments and consumables to 
support emergency room critical care relief 
efforts in the Ukraine war. 
In response to a natural disaster or 
emergency, IDEXX and the IDEXX 
Foundation work with local and global 
stakeholders to mobilize resources to 
help pets and people in need, including 
making product donations to organizations 
providing support on the front lines.
For more information on disaster and 
emergency response efforts, visit the  
Community Impact  section of this report ‣18 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
18
Inspiring Ongoing Global Learning and Discovery
IDEXX Learning Center 
The IDEXX Learning Center (ILC) aims to advance pet health care by 
inspiring lifelong learning in the global veterinary community. Using a data-
driven, evidence-based approach to optimize learning, ILC offers innovative 
courses led by experienced educators and industry experts. The ILC supports 
learners with diverse needs and learning styles, helping professionals 
stay current with the most important advancements in the field.
In 2021, more than 39,000 users, nearly 20% of which were outside of 
the U.S., completed nearly 134,000 different learning modules. We also 
awarded approximately 87,000 continuing education (CE) credits free of 
charge, valued at $3.5 million based on similar CE offerings. In addition, 
we’ve developed a pathology training program and learning journeys for 
key roles in veterinary practices, such as veterinary technicians, residents 
in internal medicine, oncology, and surgery training programs.Water Education Programs and the IDEXX Water Academy 
The IDEXX Water group provides expert training programs for laboratory managers, 
technicians, and other water professionals to enhance their laboratories and 
develop their careers. We continue to expand our educational offerings in 
terms of topics and location. For example, in China we conducted more than 
40 educational webinars in 2021, with over 7,500 people participating. 
In addition, we offer free self-paced online learning modules through the IDEXX 
Water Academy to enhance skills and expertise, as well as tutorials and best 
practices in water testing. Nearly 4,000 water professionals across the globe have 
registered for e-learning with the IDEXX Water Academy since it launched in 2020.
Diversifying Veterinary Education
The IDEXX Foundation recently announced support for Diversify Veterinary 
Medicine Coalition’s scholarship program for Black, Indigenous, and People of Color 
(BIPOC) community members and other underrepresented groups interested in 
veterinary medical education. 
For more information on our efforts to support diverse leaders for tomorrow, visit 
the Community Impact  section of this report ‣Value of continuing education 
offerings with approximately 
87k CE credits earned$3.5 $3.5 million million Users in 15 
countries 39,000+39,000+  
Engagements  
completed 8282%%
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT:
Medical Consulting Team
Welcoming their newest colleagues in the 
veterinary profession, IDEXX’s Medical 
Consulting Team shared their tips and 
wisdom to help Tuskegee University College 
of Veterinary Medicine (TUCVM) students 
navigate their school journey. Insights were 
shared in four interactive presentations filled 
with personalized messages that ranged 
from finding a mentor, communicating with 
customers, and prioritizing self-care. This 
initiative supports the recently launched 
IDEXX-TUCVM Scholars program. 
19 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Environment
We know a healthy planet is 
essential for both animal and 
human health. Driven by science, 
we are accelerating our approach 
to environmental sustainability 
through innovation, climate action, 
and a focus on impact reduction. 
Our efforts include establishing 
GHG emissions targets, driving 
efficiencies to reduce our 
operational impact, innovating 
sustainable solutions for packaging, 
and building sustainability into our 
product design, business strategy, 
and enterprise risk assessment.In this section:
• Environment Highlights 
• Taking Climate Action
•  Reducing Our Operational Impact
•  Advancing Product Stewardship 
and Circular Economy 20 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
For more information on our progress on selected goals from our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report, see the ESG Appendix  ‣8.4% 
Reduction in Scope 1 & 2 GHG 
emissions since 2019 
Environment Highlights
~330k  lbs 
Polystyrene foam avoided per 
year (anticipated) from U.S. cold 
consumables with new sustainable 
packaging initiative (~150k kg)Set Emissions Goal  
Reduce Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 
by 37.8% by 20301, aligned with UN 
Paris Agreement’s 1.5° C goal
Set Renewable Goal 
Source 100% renewable  
electricity by 2030Renewable Energy  
Signed new 20-year renewable power 
purchase agreements that are projected to 
cover 25% of global electricity needs by 202544% 
Reduction in packaging material 
and transition to 100% recycled 
cardboard with Catalyst® SDMA testNearly 30% 
Instruments and equipment repaired 
locally at Regional Service Depots 
outside of the U.S., avoiding ~50 
million miles in shipments per year
50% 
Reduction in packaging 
requirements with Single Swap 
instrument service program, 
avoiding 76k shipments per year 
Photo: Jerry Monkman for Sebago Clean Waters
1 Emissions target is based on 2021 data as baseline. Target aligned with United Nations Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius21 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Climate Risk and Resilience 
We report our climate-related risks and opportunities in 
alignment with TCFD recommendations. In early 2022, we 
conducted our first climate scenario analysis using 1.5°C, 3°C, 
and 4°C models. This work has helped us identify business 
risks and opportunities that could result from climate change. 
In addition, this analysis will help us continue to improve 
resiliency and integrate climate considerations into standard 
enterprise risk assessment and management processes. Our 
TCFD index and climate scenario insights are included in the 
ESG Appendix . 
2030 Climate Goals and Strategy
Our goal is to reduce our absolute GHG Emissions in our 
direct operations by 37.8% by 2030.¹ Our approach includes: 
• Reducing Scope 1 emissions through energy efficiency 
improvements at our facilities
• Increasing use of renewable energy through onsite 
generation from solar arrays, transitioning the mix of 
energy we purchase from utility companies, and signing 
long-term power purchase agreements that help generate 
more renewable energy for the grid at large
• Reducing the fuel consumption of our fleet of sales 
vehicles by transitioning to hybrid and electric options
• Acquiring and retiring renewable energy certificates to 
account for any remaining non-renewable consumption
Our Scope 1 & 2 emissions reduction target is in alignment 
with the 1.5 degrees Celsius warming pathway recommended 
by the Science-Based Targets Initiative. This target reflects 
our commitment to reducing IDEXX’s GHG emissions to help 
avoid the worst impacts of climate change, as laid out in the 
United Nations Paris Agreement. 
Over the next year, we plan to expand our assessment of 
Scope 3 emissions by developing mechanisms for more 
comprehensive data collection and engaging external 
partners, such as our suppliers and logistics providers, to 
gather a more fulsome picture of our value chain emissions 
and opportunities to reduce our impact.
For more information on the IDEXX Foundation’s efforts to support innovative climate adaptation initiatives around the world, see the Community Impact section ‣MT CO2e
Scope 1 (fuels, natural 
gas, refrigerants)
2019 2020 2021Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Scope 2  
(electricity use)
19,80716,587 17,38117,345
13,49916,646
For more information on our new ESG goals, visit the ESG Goals and Commitments  section of this report ‣Taking Climate Action 
At IDEXX, we recognize addressing climate change is vital to achieving a healthy, sustainable future 
for all. By exploring opportunities to minimize our impact and effectively manage our risks, we are 
investing in environmental sustainability to support long-term value creation and our strategy. Since 
our last report, we’ve been working to better understand our own environmental impact and how we 
can take action on the climate crisis, including:
• Completing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) materiality and carbon footprint 
assessments with the assistance of industry leading external sustainability firms, in accordance 
with greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) protocols
• Conducting a scenario analysis under the TCFD framework to help us assess our climate-related 
risks and opportunities
• Developing Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions reduction goal 
Through our data-based approach, we are working to significantly reduce our own GHG emissions 
and integrate climate resilience planning into our multi-year environmental sustainability strategy.
Our combined Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions for 2021 were approximately 34,027 MT CO2e—an 
8.4% absolute decrease from 2019 and a 19% decrease in building emissions intensity over the 
same period. Some of this reduction can be attributed to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on 
our operations, as our buildings and commercial fleet were not used as heavily in 2020 and 2021. 
Several energy efficiency projects also contributed to our reduced emissions levels, including LED 
lighting upgrades and HVAC equipment monitoring at our World Campus in Westbrook, Maine.  
To meet our targets, we plan to initiate more efficiency projects in the coming years, transition 
our fleet to more fuel-efficient vehicles, and continually shift our electricity consumption towards 
renewable sources.
For more information, see the Data Summary for 2019-2021 in the ESG Appendix  ‣
1 Emissions target is based on 2021 data as baseline. Target aligned with United Nations Paris Agreement’s goal of limiting warming  
 to 1.5 degrees Celsius22 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Reducing Our Operational Impact 
As a growing global company, IDEXX is committed 
to responsibly managing the environmental footprint 
across our operations, including our manufacturing 
sites, reference laboratories, research and development 
space, office locations, and distribution centers. In 
addition to our focus on GHG emissions reductions, our 
global facilities management team is striving to improve 
our operational footprint in the following areas:
• Decreasing onsite energy use and 
increasing renewable energy
• Increasing sustainable waste disposal and recycling
• Reducing water footprint
• Advancing sustainable building designs and 
creating healthy workplaces for our employees
Energy Use and Efficiency
Our 2021 total energy use was approximately 56,225 
megawatt hours (MWh) — a 7.7% increase from 2020. 
Over the same time period, IDEXX’s revenue grew by 19%, 
reflecting our efforts to decouple environmental impact from 
our growth. Our energy use was slightly impacted by COVID-
19-related office re-openings in 2021 as our manufacturing, 
reference labs, and research facilities remained open 
throughout the pandemic.
We continue to invest in energy efficiency measures across 
our operations, including ongoing LED lighting upgrade 
projects and high efficiency HVAC upgrades to support 
indoor air quality.Expanding Our Renewable Energy Footprint
An important part of our efforts to reduce our carbon 
impact is sourcing renewable or alternative energy and 
increasing onsite generation capabilities. In 2021, we 
generated 251,941 kWh from onsite solar. In addition, 
we recently signed several twenty-year power purchase 
agreements for the procurement of local solar and hydro 
power, estimated to cover 25% of our annual global energy 
needs by 2025. This will support our goal to source 100% 
renewable electricity by 2030.in MWhEnergy Use
201954,758
202052,224
202156,22523 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Water Use
Even though our industry is not considered water-intensive, 
we continue to take steps to manage our water use to 
reduce our environmental impact and operational costs and 
to address potential risks that water scarcity may present. 
Our World Campus facilities feature a roof-top rainwater 
collection system, low-flow toilets and waterless urinals, 
low-flow, touchless faucets, and solar-powered actuators on 
toilets that are recharged by bathroom lights. These efforts 
save us up to one million gallons of water annually and are 
the standard for all new buildings that IDEXX constructs. 
From 2019 to 2021, our water use increased by 15% 
primarily due to COVID-related reopenings and the addition 
of our Synergy East facility on our World Campus and two 
new sites to our global footprint.Waste Reduction 
We continue to focus on gaining a better understanding 
of our waste footprint globally. We are developing a 
single database to understand our waste streams across 
all IDEXX locations and identify where we can minimize 
impact and manage materials in the most environmentally 
responsible manner possible. Our waste management 
approach includes: avoiding or reducing, reusing, recycling, 
incinerating, and diverting to landfill as a last resort. For 
example, our recent efforts include diverting biologic 
waste to be converted to energy and sorting programs for 
electronics. Sites are also spearheading their own initiatives 
to reduce their most significant wastes. Our World Campus 
facilities strive to be zero waste to landfill through a third 
party provider that converts waste not recycled or reused 
into energy.
We also participate in the PrintReleaf Exchange to certifiably 
reduce the environmental impact of using paper products. 
PrintReleaf measures paper consumption to calculate our 
monthly paper footprint that is then distributed to a global 
network of reforestation projects. Since 2017, we have 
offset the equivalent of 39 million standard pages of paper 
by reforesting nearly 4,700 standard trees.
Environmental Management and Oversight
We use management systems based on the ISO 9001 and 
ISO 14001 standards to track and improve performance 
at our manufacturing sites. Currently, 100% of IDEXX 
worldwide manufacturing facilities  are ISO certified, 
including one or more of the following: ISO 9001, 14001, 
13485, and 17025. We aim to comply with applicable 
environmental regulations and other requirements, and 
investigate any noncompliance to identify root cause and 
take action to mitigate future risk. This approach reinforces 
our commitment to ensure we minimize the impact of our 
operations on the environment and continually set goals for 
improvement.Reducing Waste with Reference Lab Innovation 
We’ve recently introduced a new innovative digital multi-testing technology to all 
our core global reference laboratory locations. Paired with IDEXX’s differentiated 
assays and reagents, this technology offers the most comprehensive, cost-
effective, and timely diagnostic picture for our customers and their patients. Multiple 
tests can now be run on one device, reducing the number of lab plates required 
by approximately 75% and SNAP tests by up to 50%. Less material is consumed 
and waste produced, translating into reduced shipping and landfill impacts, and 
cost savings. Increased instrument capacity also helps reduce lab footprints as 
additional space isn’t required to accommodate growth in new test offerings.Fewer lab plates used Fewer SNAP tests usedUp to
50% Up to
75% 
13 Water consumption for 43% of square footage
14 Water consumption for 47% of square footage
in Cubic Meters (thousands)Water Use
20191378.09
20201470.30
20211489.4524 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT:
Employee-led Sustainability Initiatives
 
Environmental Stewardship Committee
The Environmental Stewardship Committee at 
our World Campus headquarters aims to educate 
employees on sustainability practices at work and 
at home through ‘lunch and learn’ presentations, 
sustainability fairs, and community building events, 
such as Earth Day 2021 volunteering.
Green Team Netherlands
The Green Team at our 
European headquarters in 
Hoofddorp, The Netherlands 
is an employee-led group 
working creatively to promote 
sustainable practices, including 
waste reduction initiatives and training for employees 
in Hoofddorp’s office and warehouse locations.
Sustainable Building Design
We design our buildings to minimize 
our environmental impact and create 
healthy workplaces for our employees. 
As construction kicks off for our 
new facility in Scarborough, Maine, 
we plan to integrate sustainable 
building principles in our design, including installing onsite solar 
and a water reclamation system for irrigation, sourcing and using 
sustainable building materials, installing electric vehicle charging 
stations, landscaping with local plants, creating a community 
garden, and incorporating energy-conservation techniques wherever possible, such as 100% LED lighting and HVAC heat 
recovery system. 
Our two Synergy buildings on our World Campus are Leadership 
in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold certified, which 
refers to buildings designed, built, and maintained using green 
building and energy efficiency best practices. The newest facility, 
Synergy East, opened in 2020 and has a rooftop solar array, 
rainwater collection system, and dynamic glass for low-energy 
temperature control.
25 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Product Stewardship:  
Delivering through Innovation 
Our Research & Development (R&D) teams are continuously looking 
for ways to lower environment impacts through design. Two recent 
examples include:
ProCyte One® 
We integrated sustainability considerations in the design of 
ProCyte One®, our next-generation, point-of-care hematology 
analyzer that began shipping to customers in 2021. As a 
result, ProCyte One uses: 
60%+ 
Fewer components compared to LaserCyte DX
Recyclable packaging 
and consumable bottles
20% 
Peak power in low-power mode 
In addition, as the calibration fluid used by ProCyte One 
is unique, the R&D team discovered less was required 
compared to other analyzers, recognizing an opportunity to 
right-size the fluid and reduce waste by: 
6 months 
Shelf life doubled with same stability 
50% 
Fewer kits required per year, from four to two
For more information on our new ESG goals, visit the  
ESG Goals and Commitments  section of this report ‣
Before AfterAdvancing Product Stewardship 
and Circular Economy
As we innovate with intelligence to develop new products, services, and technologies 
for our customers, we prioritize quality and safety while also striving to reduce the 
environmental impacts of our products and packaging. 
Our increasing focus on product stewardship starts in research and development where 
we seek to incorporate sustainable design into our process for developing new products. 
We also explore opportunities to reduce environmental impacts at every stage of the 
product life cycle, such as optimizing materials and packaging for products currently on 
the market. Our goal is to reduce waste, enhance efficiency, minimize the use of materials 
of concern, address current and emerging regulations, as well as maintain customer 
satisfaction. Many of our innovations expand the testing capabilities of our existing 
instrument platforms as part of our Technology for Life approach to continually enhance 
the diagnostic value of our instruments, as well as extend their lifespans.
Our product stewardship commitments include integrating sustainability considerations 
as required criteria for new product development and design and reducing the amount of 
plastic and other material waste from current products and packaging.Catalyst® SDMA Test
Our Catalyst® SDMA Test features an innovative technology 
that replaces the previous three-cup consumable design with 
a single slide, reducing waste and allowing it to be run more 
efficiently as part of routine chemistry profiles. Used by our 
in-house Catalyst One or Catalyst Dx chemistry analyzers, 
this innovative design saves time by eliminating steps and 
results in simplified workflows and faster results.
By eliminating consumable plastic cups, utilizing fewer 
plastic pipette tips to process the test, and decreasing the 
size of the box, the Catalyst® SDMA test brings large-scale 
reductions in packaging and plastic use, translating into: 
~29k lbs 
Plastic avoided per year (~13k kg) 
44% 
Reduction in packaging material
100% 
Recycled paperboard 
43% 
Fewer plastic pipette tips required26 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Sustainable Packaging: Recyclable  
Insulated Containers 
To help us deliver on our commitment to reduce waste from current products and 
packaging, we continue to assess opportunities to optimize packaging for current 
products and incorporate sustainable packaging design into new products under 
development. In 2021, we transitioned to environmentally-friendly insulated packaging 
when shipping cold consumables in the U.S., replacing the expanded polystyrene foam 
previously used. Commonly known as Styrofoam, polystyrene foam is a non-biodegradable 
product with limited recycling options that often ends up landfills. This new sustainable 
packaging is made from recycled water bottles and can also be recycled in its entirety. 
By replacing polystyrene foam with recycled plastic, we are lessening our consumption 
of petroleum as a raw material and reducing the amount of plastic waste put into the 
environment. IDEXX in Australia and New Zealand previously initiated sustainable 
packaging in 2020, using wool for packing insulation.
As a result, we anticipate we will avoid using approximately 330,000 lbs of polystyrene 
foam (~150,000 kg) in U.S. cold consumables shipping in 2022. This year, we plan to make 
a similar packaging transition in Europe using recycled paper. Promoting Circularity
Circular Economy centers around the idea of keeping materials 
in use for as long as possible. Through our Technology for Life 
approach, IDEXX 360 offering, and trade-in program that supports 
upgrades to new products, IDEXX implements the principles of 
circular economy in how we commercialize our instruments. As 
part of this approach, we conduct Point of Service (POS) upgrades 
during routine repairs, replacing components with more up-to-date 
and reliable versions to improve instrument reliability, reduce repair 
costs over time, and extend the instruments longevity.
We also look for opportunities to give products a second life by 
collecting them for refurbishing, recycling, or reprocessing. For 
example, we collect components from POS upgrades as feedstock 
for reuse utilizing a component repair and re-certification process. 
We have recycling programs in place to support older, more mature 
products nearing the end of life that we can quality certify and resell 
or use for parts. For instruments beyond repair, we recycle our 
electronic waste with third-party vendors who responsibly repurpose 
or recycle the material. In 2021, we repaired 23 metric tons of 
components in our Westbrook service center as part of our Single 
Swap Service model that ensures our customers are not without 
critical product. IDEXX repairs 28 products globally including IDEXX 
VetLab® analyzers and parts are reused where possible.
Before AfterEMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT: Promoting circularity
Driven by employee feedback, IDEXX’s donation 
portal is an internal resource for employees 
to submit requests to donate non-IP related equipment or 
furniture no longer of use. We partner with local nonprofits 
and educational facilities who reuse and repurpose items, 
with a commitment to dispose sustainably at end of life.
~330k lbs 
Polystyrene foam avoided per year (anticipated) 
from U.S. cold consumables packaging shipping in 2022,  
impacting approximately 570k packages (~150k kg)
27 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Product Take Backs 
Under the European Union’s Batteries and Accumulators Directive, the Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive and the Waste 
Electronic and Electrical Equipment Directive (WEEE), we comply with requirements to finance the collection and recycling of 
equipment, batteries, and packaging supplied with our products at end of life. We provide online WEEE Compliance recycling 
information by country for customers and recyclers in Europe. Our Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) programs cover 17 
European Union countries and we plan to expand to North America in 2022.
In 2021, we began implementing a new tracking systems for our EPR programs. For 2020, our participation in EPR collection schemes 
accounted for the equivalent of 175 metric tons of equipment, 570 metric tons of packaging material, and 265 kilograms of batteries.
Adopting a Circular Approach to Instrument Service Worldwide 
We continue to evolve our Instrument Service strategy worldwide demonstrating our focus on sustainability. Examples of programs  
that promote our approach to circularity include:
Regional Service Depots 
Part of our Service Strategy is to bring instrument and 
equipment solutions closer to our customers to improve 
repair cycle times, eliminate freight and shipping costs, and 
build regional product expertise that helps support customer 
facing efforts in the region. Our Instrument Service Team 
has 11 repair depots worldwide, with new depots opened in 
Thailand in 2019 and South Korea in 2021. 
In 2021, our Service Operations team repaired 10,261 
instruments and equipment at our eight regional depots 
outside the U.S., translating into:
Nearly 30% 
Instruments and equipment repaired locally at 
Regional Service Depots outside of the U.S. 
~50 million 
Miles in shipments avoided per yearSingle Swap Service 
Our leaner Single Swap Service strategy available worldwide 
exchanges a customer’s broken instrument or piece of 
equipment with a Quality Certified replacement at the outset, 
thus reducing the number of shipments and packaging 
needed by 50%. This strategy improves our customer 
experience with less disruption and faster turn-around, saves 
IDEXX the cost of freight, packaging, and loaner instruments 
and preparations, and greatly reduces waste and emissions 
from unnecessary transportation.
In 2021, our Service Operations team repaired 37,872 
instruments and equipment worldwide, translating into:
76k 
Additional instrument shipments avoided 
50% 
Reduction in shipping and packaging materials 
required
28 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
By cultivating a rewarding 
workplace that promotes greater 
diversity, inclusion, well-being, 
and belonging, we are building a 
culture that brings out the best 
in our people and supports a 
resilient, engaged, future-ready 
workforce. We respect people and 
communities across our entire 
value chain by further advancing 
responsible and sustainable 
sourcing and supporting human 
rights. Through our solutions-
oriented approach to social 
initiatives and community 
engagement, we are committed 
to creating a positive and lasting 
impact around the globe.In this section:
• Social Highlights
• People and Culture
  Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
  Talent and Development
  Employee Well-being
  Workplace Health and Safety
• Responsible Supply Chain
• Community Impact
  IDEXX Foundation
  Volunteering and  
  Community EngagementSocial
29 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
$3.4  million  
Total social initiatives, including IDEXX 
Foundation grants, corporate contributions, 
and value of product donations
36
IDEXX Foundation funded 
initiatives on four continents 
as of December 2021100%
IDEXX employee have access to the 
Employee Assistance Program (EAP) 
available in 33 countries in 16 languages
For more information on our progress on selected goals from our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report, see the ESG Appendix  ‣59%
Women in STEM roles648%
Women in global management²Social Highlights
$6.9  million 
IDEXX Foundation multi-year 
projects initiated as of  
December 2021
22.5% 
Underrepresented racial and 
ethnic groups in U.S. workforce15100%
Global people leaders completed 
training in leading diversity, inclusion, 
and belonging by June 2022
2 Employees in people leadership roles (all levels)
6 Includes STEM professional and technical support roles in computer and math (e.g., software developers), engineering (e.g., process engineers), physical and life sciences (e.g., senior scientists),  
 veterinary professionals (e.g., clinical pathologists, professional services veterinarians, or medical laboratory technicians), and STEM managerial (e.g., laboratory managers)
15 Based on self-identification by our U.S. employees. The term ‘underrepresented racial and ethnic groups’ is defined as African American/Black, Asian, Hispanic/Latinx, and other. Other is defined as American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races
30 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
People and Culture
Our people are key to our company’s success in an 
industry where innovation is paramount. We are focused 
on creating a collaborative workplace where employees 
feel engaged, supported in their development, comfortable 
to be their authentic selves, and provided with deeper 
meaning and fulfillment in their work. 
IDEXX Employees Around the Globe
68%
Americas24%
EMEA
Europe, 
Middle East, 
Africa8%
APO
Asia Pacific RegionEmployee Engagement
We conduct our annual company-wide myVOICE survey 
to give IDEXXers an opportunity to directly provide 
input on our culture, their experiences, and workplace 
conditions. This collective input helps develop 
meaningful and actionable insights and enables us to 
improve the employee experience.
In 2021, nearly 85% of employees responded to the 
myVOICE survey. Our overall engagement score was 
82%, which aligns with the average score from the 
survey’s all-company benchmark of 500 companies. 
Employees’ pride in IDEXX continues to be a driver in 
engagement, with 87% of employees indicating they are 
proud to work for IDEXX, which is above the all-company 
benchmark. A key finding from the 2021 survey was 
an increase in employee engagement around diversity, 
equity, and inclusion. Overall, 84% of employees feel 
IDEXX is committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion in 
the workplace. Total Global 
Employees
Countries
Locations10,350
  33
115+
Employees who indicated they 
are proud to work at IDEXX 87% 
15 Based on self-identification by our U.S. employees. The term ‘underrepresented  
 racial and ethnic groups’ is defined as African American/Black, Asian, Hispanic/  
 Latinx, and other. Other is defined as American Indian, Alaska Native, Native   
 Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races
16 Data regarding gender are based on self-identification by our global employees  
 and use the traditional gender category of women (or female) to align with U.S.  
 government reporting requirementsWomen 
58% White/  
Caucasian  
76% 
Decline to state 1% Decline to state 1%Men  
41%Underrepresented 
racial and ethnic 
groups 
22%Racial/Ethnic representation 15 (U.S. workforce) Gender representation 16 (global workforce) 
Note: Some totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding.31 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Shades of IDEXX • Celebrating diversity 
with the goal of pursuing true equality 
and sincere empathy for allEmployee-Led 
Communities 
At IDEXX, we empower our 
employees to create connection 
and to engage with each other 
around issues they care about. 
Through our ELCs, IDEXXers 
all over the world contribute to 
fostering a culture of inclusion and 
belonging. Some examples include: 
Together • Championing the 
advancement of women and female-
identifying individuals in the workplace 
and beyond
PrideXX and PrideXX Netherlands • 
Creating community for LGBTQIA+ 
IDEXX employees and allies in the U.S. 
and across Europe
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
Our entrepreneurial and collaborative spirit is enhanced when many different people, 
perspectives, and backgrounds are aligned toward achieving IDEXX’s Purpose. 
Through our diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) efforts, we seek to ensure our global 
workplaces are dynamic, supportive of all our employees, and representative of our 
customers and communities. 
At IDEXX, we believe that all people bring with them a 
unique set of personal and professional perspectives, 
talents, and experiences. We are intentional in our 
efforts and practices to accept and welcome diversity 
and treat all IDEXX employees equally, fairly, and with 
equitable access to opportunities and advancement. We 
also want our employees to know and believe they can 
bring their full, authentic selves to work, and know that it 
contributes to the success of the business.
An essential driver of our innovation and success, we aspire to make DEI part of our 
DNA and how we do business. We continue to make progress advancing our multi-
year global DEI strategy—investing in people, processes, and partnerships. We also 
continue to assess the impact of our DEI efforts through our annual employee survey. 
These findings help us continue to evolve our DEI programs as we strive to build a more 
diverse, equitable, and inclusive organization.Building Inclusive Capability 
Our goal is to embed DEI in all our ways of working at IDEXX, from the way we 
collaborate globally to how we innovate. In 2021, we launched company-wide 
DEI training for all employees and people leaders to foster inclusion and reduce 
bias in our business and talent practices, and to build these types of DEI skills 
within our teams. Available in 16 languages, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging 
Training is mandatory for all people leaders and highly encouraged for all 
employees. All of our people leaders globally completed this training in leading 
diversity, inclusion, and belonging in early 2022.
As we look ahead, we’re focused on expanding our DEI learning opportunities 
and resources to drive action and partnering with Employee-Led Communities 
(ELCs) to build a sense of belonging and drive inclusion.
Diversity, Inclusion, 
and Belonging Training 
launched globally to all 
employees and people 
leaders in 2021Available for 
DEI training and 
leaders guidesTrained in diversity, 
inclusion, and 
belonging
DEI
TrainingTraining16
LanguagesLanguages100% 
People LeadersPeople Leaders   
Workforce
IDEXX’s workforce and leadership will 
reflect the diversity of the communities 
where we are based and do business.
Industry
IDEXX supports the next 
generation of diverse leaders and 
veterinarians, and we seek diverse 
representation in our supply chain.Work Environments
IDEXX creates and upholds inclusive, 
respectful, and safe workplaces 
where all employees can thrive, 
grow, collaborate, and innovate.
Communities
IDEXX equitably invests in the communities 
where we do business, and support 
initiatives focused on bridging the 
gender and race gap in various fields—
including STEM and entrepreneurship.Our Approach to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
Driving awareness, action, and accountabilityEmployees believe 
IDEXX is committed to 
diversity and inclusion 
in the workplace, an 
increase of two points 
from 202084% 
For more information on our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion , visit our website at www.idexx.com ‣32 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Strengthening Workforce Diversity
At IDEXX, we know and believe that developing 
our current and future leaders and increasing 
diversity of all types at all levels helps to inspire 
innovation, increase engagement, and contribute 
to our future growth. 
As we continue to embed DEI in our talent 
practices, we’ve made progress increasing our 
gender diversity, with 48% of global management 
roles and 34% of senior leadership roles held by 
women in 2021, a four point increase from 2020. 
In addition, nearly 60% of women in our global 
workforce are in STEM professional and technical 
support roles, such as professional service 
veterinarians, software developers, and medical 
laboratory technicians.
We seek to advance diversity in our workforce. 
Our representation goals seek to increase the 
percentage of underrepresented groups4 in 
U.S. management to 33%, and maintain gender 
balance in global management by 2030. We also 
aim to continue to provide career opportunities 
for women in STEM roles globally. 
To help us achieve these goals, we are 
accelerating activities that support our diversity 
recruitment, retention, and advancement efforts, 
including:
• Evolving hiring processes to include 
diverse candidate slates and improve 
talent pool representation for all 
open senior management roles • Setting goals for representation in 
succession plans and recruitment 
pipelines, and monitoring participation 
in development programs 
• Establishing relationships with recognized 
educational institutions, recruitment agencies, 
and job fairs that focus on the advancement 
of racial and ethnically diverse talent 
• Developing inclusive recruitment 
strategies for all open positions 
As we scale our efforts, we’re partnering with 
business leaders to co-create customized DEI 
strategies to support these goals. We recognize 
our DEI journey will never be finished and we are 
continually looking for opportunities to drive DEI 
at IDEXX and in the communities we serve.Partnering on DEI 
As part of our DEI commitment, we’ve partnered 
with Women In Leadership and Management in 
Animal Health (WILMAH) to support increasing 
workforce gender diversity in leadership roles. 
Through webinars, networking events, and in-
person summits, WILMAH’s platform empowers 
women in animal health to cultivate the next wave 
of leaders. 
IDEXX is also a sponsor of Catalyst, a global 
nonprofit helping build workplaces that work for 
women. All IDEXX employees have access to 
Catalyst’s online community and resources.
We’re also taking steps to help advance DEI 
beyond IDEXX. Through community partnerships, 
we are investing in programs that create 
opportunities for diverse leaders of tomorrow. 
These include initiatives to advance diversity 
in veterinary medicine and equitable access to 
STEM education. Advancing Diversity in Veterinary 
Education 
In 2021, the IDEXX Foundation announced a 
multi-year $3.6 million initiative with the Tuskegee 
University College of Veterinary Medicine that 
includes support for nine full scholarships and 
resources for mental health services, and is part 
of a larger effort to advance DEI in veterinary 
medicine. The IDEXX Foundation recently 
announced support for Diversify Veterinary 
Medicine Coalition’s scholarship and mentorship 
programs for BIPOC community members and 
other underrepresented groups interested in 
veterinary medical education. 
For more information on the IDEXX Foundation’s 
efforts to create opportunities for diverse leaders 
of tomorrow, visit the Community Impact  section 
of this report ‣
2 Employees in people leadership roles (all levels)
4 Based on self-identification by our U.S. employees. The term ‘underrepresented groups’ is defined as Black/African American, Asian, Hispanic/Latinx, American  
 Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races, as well as other underrepresented and/or vulnerable groups 
6 Includes STEM professional and technical support roles in computer and math (e.g., software developers), engineering (e.g., process engineers), physical and  
 life sciences (e.g., senior scientists), veterinary professionals (e.g., clinical pathologists, professional services veterinarians, or medical laboratory technicians),  
 and STEM managerial (e.g., laboratory managers) 
17 Global Senior Leaders are employees in compensation grades considered Director or above
For more information on our new ESG goals, visit the ESG Goals and Commitments   
section of this report ‣58% Overall
59% STEM roles 6
48% Management²
34% Senior leadership17Women in Our Global Workforce  33 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT:
SHADES OF IDEXX
After attending an industry conference 
a few years ago, Dr. Tangela Williams-
Hill, a professional services veterinarian 
at IDEXX, noticed the lack of diversity 
in the crowd and on onstage. As the 
conversation regarding racial and 
social injustice grew in 2020, Tangela 
recognized an opportunity to bring 
colleagues together in dialogue and 
community. She soon discovered 
many others felt the same and, after 
connecting with Lilia Kazemi-Egbunike, 
a UK-based LPD Sales Lead, Shades of 
IDEXX was born.
Shades of IDEXX’s mission is to 
celebrate diversity and promote unity 
that leads to the elimination of inequity 
so that no IDEXX colleague feels alone. 
Two years on, Shades has grown from a small group of 12 to several hundred 
members led by an active steering 
committee. The group is community 
driven, designing programs with input 
from colleagues across IDEXX to 
represent a global perspective. 
Shades of IDEXX aims to expand 
professional development 
opportunities, like mentoring, and 
champion DEI initiatives at IDEXX, 
including hosting leader conversations 
as part of its Fireside Chat series. The 
group often collaborates with other 
employee-led communities to co-
host community learning events. For 
example, Shades of IDEXX reccently 
partnered with IDEXX Together on 
a Fireside Chat with IDEXX Board 
member, Dr. Asha Collins, in recognition 
of Black History Month and the 
International Day for Women and Girls 
in Science.
Photo: Members of SHADES 
of IDEXX during a virtual 
networking event.
Pay Equity
At IDEXX, we fully support inclusion, 
diversity, and pay equity and are 
committed to advancing these 
initiatives. We have numerous 
processes and practices in place 
globally that are designed to promote 
fair and consistent compensation 
and are administered in a manner to 
support pay equity. Our pay processes 
and practices are intended to prevent 
unexplained pay disparities and we 
are confident that they are effective in 
doing so. Pay equity is reviewed when 
an employee is hired or promoted, as 
well as part of our annual performance 
and compensation review processes. If 
a discrepancy is identified, there is an 
internal review process to evaluate the 
discrepancy and, where appropriate, 
address it. For more information, see 
our commitment to pay equity . We regularly conduct a global gender 
pay equity assessment. Most recently, 
in the first quarter of 2022, we 
conducted a global gender pay equity 
assessment through an independent 
third party for our employees 
in nine countries, representing 
approximately 89% of our global 
employee population, as well as a 
racial pay equity assessment for our 
U.S. employees. The results of these 
assessments confirmed that our global 
pay practices are fair and equitable. 
In addition, we conduct country-level 
gender pay gap analysis in multiple 
countries and disclose the results. Key 
elements of our assessments include 
job responsibilities and competitive 
labor market benchmarks. For more 
information about the multiple country  
 analysis and disclosures, visit our 
Corporate Responsibility webpage .
As of 2021, IDEXX annually discloses 
our Equal Employment Opportunity 
(EEO-1) survey data, representing U.S. 
employees. We note that our EEO-1 
survey data presents demographic 
information in federally mandated job 
categories that differ from our internal 
organizational structure. We measure 
progress against our DEI strategy and 
objectives using different metrics and 
data points. In this disclosure, we also 
include data regarding the gender, 
racial, and ethnic diversity among our 
workforce, leadership, and Board of 
Directors. For more information, see our 
EEO-1 survey data disclosure .
34 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Talent and Development 
We aim to attract, develop, and retain a diverse workforce that reflects 
our global community. Competition for experienced leaders and talent, 
particularly for those with specialized skills and capabilities, can be intense. 
Like many companies, we are experiencing a structural shift in the market for 
talent and employee’s needs and expectations about how they work.
To engage and inspire the future workforce, we’ve evolved our strategy to help 
us attract and retain world-class talent, particularly for high-impact roles. In 
addition to offering competitive compensation, benefits, and opportunities 
for growth, we are transforming working models and how we onboard and 
develop employees in an increasingly automated and remote world. We are 
also developing a diverse pipeline of agile, future-ready leaders who can 
adapt, collaborate, and excel in disruptive times. 
Diversity in Talent Acquisition
Our Talent Acquisition Diversity and Inclusion Committee is guiding our 
efforts to advance more deliberate, equitable, and inclusive recruitment 
practices and experiences for candidates in underrepresented groups. This 
includes expanding our sourcing networks, ensuring diverse hiring slates, and 
strengthening equitable competency-based interviews.
We continue to evolve our talent channels and outreach activities for both our 
entry-level and experienced talent. For example, we’re growing our university 
relationships to expand our intern program to improve the number of diverse 
applicants for entry-level roles. With a fully hybrid model in 2021, 30% of our 
interns came from outside of Maine and we continue to expand our sourcing 
networks to support our ability to recruit talented, diverse interns from across 
the U.S. and globally. 
For more information on DEI efforts, see the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  
section of this report ‣
See Listening to Our Frontline Workers  for more information on our initiative to actively engage in understanding better what matters most to 
our critical frontline workers ‣IDEXX Global Competencies 
In 2021, we refreshed our 
IDEXX global competency 
framework with the aim to 
embed them in all of our 
talent practices. Applied 
across all management 
levels, the IDEXX 
competencies provide 
actionable insights into the 
behaviors that underpin 
an employee’s success. 
The framework supports 
objective, unbiased selection, talent assessment, 
performance goal setting, feedback and appraisal, 
succession planning, individual development planning 
and learning, as well as leadership development 
programs.Hourly Employee Advocacy, Recruitment, and 
Training (HEART)
We launched the HEART program in 2020 to develop 
hourly workers from Global Operations into other areas 
of the organization based on their interests, education, 
and experience. HEART’s primary aim is to identify and 
remove barriers to opportunities by providing access 
to a variety of career development resources, including 
internal “gigs” and mentoring. In 2022, we hired a 
dedicated program manager to lead ongoing efforts to 
grow and scale the program.
Deliver
Drive your 
Performance
Grow
Enhance your 
Expertise
Stretch
Prepare for  
the Future35 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Our Academic Partnerships 
Academic partnerships enhance our ability 
to attract and retain talent, advance skill-
based training and career development, 
and support opportunities for academic 
innovation and research. With our 
partnership with the Roux Institute at 
Northeastern University, a life sciences 
graduate and research center in Portland, 
Maine, we are engaged in co-designing 
custom learning courses, seminars, and 
experiential learning opportunities for both 
Roux and IDEXX participants. In 2021, 
16 IDEXX employees enrolled in Roux’s 
academic degree programs and more than 
60+ participated in learning seminars. 
We also sponsored a biotechnology lab 
and hired 15 Roux graduates and co-op 
students for full-time roles.Leadership and Core Development
We invest in our employees’ success and, as 
new remote and hybrid working models become 
the norm, we are re-imagining new approaches 
to learning and development to help them 
thrive. We are also embedding core business 
competencies and reinforcing collaboration and 
inclusion programs and practices across IDEXX 
globally. 
As employees grow in their careers at IDEXX, 
they have access to a wide variety of learning 
and development opportunities to help them 
build the capabilities they need to succeed. In 
2021, our employees completed 40,889 hours 
in learning and development modules, including 
live and on-demand content. All of our training 
is offered virtually with many training modules 
available in multiple languages.Re-imagining Leadership Development
Building capability and developing leaders for 
the new realities of work are core drivers of our 
talent strategy. To support this transformation, 
we launched Skillsoft Percipio to all people 
leaders and supervisors in early 2022. Skillsoft 
is an intelligent learning platform that supports 
delivery of personalized, scalable programs and 
learning journeys in more than 13 languages. By 
re-imagining leadership development, we ensure 
that all IDEXX leaders globally can access the 
development content and support they need to 
lead in a hybrid work environment.
Leadership Programs
With our leadership programs, we create 
opportunities for our people leaders and 
executives to continue to hone their leadership 
skills. We also invest in development opportunities 
for high-potential employees to succeed in future 
leadership roles.Our leadership program offerings include:
• Leadership Activate  • Available to newly hired 
and promoted leaders. Offering consistent 
onboarding to the practical aspects of managing 
people at IDEXX
• Leadership Accelerate • Open to frontline leaders 
with a focus on the practical skills required to 
engage teams, foster collaboration, and make 
good and timely decisions that drive results 
• Leadership Ascend  • Available to mid-level 
leaders with a focus on leading across 
boundaries and delivering business impact 
though shared direction, alignment, and 
commitment
• Leadership Altitude  • Open to nominated 
business leaders with potential for increased 
scope and responsibility. Focused on building 
networks to strengthen global perspective and 
working on real business challenges to embed a 
strategic mindset and cultivate innovation 
Looking ahead, we continue to evolve programs 
to enable learning and advance job-related 
capabilities, encourage mobility to pursue career 
interests, and promote advancement.Online 
development 
courses offered200 + 40,889 
Learning & 
development hours  
completed in 2021
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT:  Service Technician Certification
COVID-related travel restrictions have impacted our ability to complete instrument service transfers to new 
regions. In the past, we’ve brought IDEXX Service Technicians to our Westbrook headquarters for repair training 
and certification. In 2021, the Worldwide Service Team came up with an innovative solution, developing a 
series of training videos to complete all verification and validation requirements for our regional depot in the 
Netherlands. Sixteen training modules can now be reused for future transfer projects or to refresh on training.
36 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Emotional Resilience
As we navigate through the ongoing 
impacts of the pandemic, we know it is 
important to be mindful of safeguarding our 
mental health. We expanded our support 
for mental health in 2021, including our 
commitment to changing the misperceptions 
that surround mental illness with the global 
expansion of the Make It OK campaign. 
We also offered one-on-one life coaching 
services and introduced Talkspace, a new 
online therapy benefit for U.S.-based IDEXX 
employees and household members. 
Financial Health 
We expanded our My Secure 
Advantage (MSA) Financial Wellness 
program to Canada in 2021. MSA is also 
available to all U.S.-based employees 
and their spouses and dependents. 
The program provides online tools and 
resources, as well as 90 days of free 
financial coaching annually.Available inEmployee Well-Being 
We know supporting employees’ personal well-being will 
have a lasting and powerful impact on both IDEXX and 
our people. We take a holistic approach to health and 
wellness with a focus on creating a global community 
through awareness, education, and empowerment 
that inspires employees and their families to live their 
healthiest lives.
The COVID-19 pandemic heightened the importance 
of nurturing employee’s well-being. In response, we 
expanded our investment in benefits, programs, and 
incentives that support our employees and their 
families’ physical health, emotional resilience, social 
connectedness, and financial health. 
In 2021, we expanded our Employee Assistance Program 
(EAP) globally, now offered in 33 countries and available 
in 16 languages. Our EAP is a global service to support 
the mental health and well-being of IDEXX employees and 
their families, offering a wide variety of free, confidential 
services to help them juggle complicated family, work, 
and personal needs.Physical Health
IDEXX offers employees access to 
quality, affordable health and welfare plans, 
medical and dental plans, and access to 
fitness services, including an onsite fitness 
center at our World Campus headquarters, 
ClassPass, and gym reimbursements.
Throughout the pandemic, we continued to 
offer a range of in-person and virtual offerings 
to encourage employee awareness of health 
risks, support behavior change, and empower 
employees to act, including: 
• Expanding access to Virgin Pulse digital 
wellness platform to all IDEXX locations
• Continuing to offer virtual group classes, 
fitness coaching, and daily stretch breaks 
• Launching subsidized offering of Class 
Pass virtual and in-person fitness classes 
• Administering COVID-19 and flu vaccines 
through our onsite clinic at our World 
Campus headquarters and expanding 
virtual health screening services to support 
employees across North America
Global Engagement in Virgin Pulse 
Now available in every IDEXX country, 
Virgin Pulse is a global digital tool that 
gives employees access to all the wellness 
programs available to them in one place. With 
more than 6,100 global users, we’re seeing 
positive engagement and health impacts. Social Connectedness
Advocates for Employee Well-Being 
Since 2020, we’ve been building a well-being 
champion network throughout our locations 
around the world. Our Well-being Champions 
are a driving force for engagement at IDEXX, 
helping to inspire, excite and encourage 
employees to stay healthy, whether it’s through 
diet, exercise, meditation, or simply finding 
ways to stay connected. Well-being 
champions in  
15 countries and  
24 U.S. statesHigher enrollment in 
Virgin Pulse globally 
at locations with well-
being champions
Best Employers: 
Excellence in Health 
and Well-Being in 
2022, 2020 · Special 
Recognition for Mental 
Health in 2022, 2020  
Business Group on 
HealthGold Workplace Health 
Achievement Index  
in 2021, 2020   
American Heart 
Association
122 10%
High-risk hypertensive 
people reduced their blood 
pressure since joining64% 47% 
Monthly 
engagement 
rate globallyWell-Being Recognition33 16
Countries Languages
The Make It OK campaign is made possible by 
HealthPartners, Inc.“As a Well-being Champion, I am able to share 
all of the fabulous resources available through 
IDEXX, bringing awareness of these tools to 
our team and reminding people (including 
myself) of the importance of self-care.” 
· KYRA SOMERS, DVM, PH.D. , 
  MANAGER OF PATHOLOGY
37 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Workplace Health and Safety 
Ensuring the health, safety, and well-being of our employees 
is a top priority at IDEXX. We provide our employees with 
the training, tools, and resources they need to safeguard 
their health and we empower them to put safety first. Our 
Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) team oversees the 
IDEXX EH&S management system and our company-wide 
safety programs, ensuring that all our locations implement 
health and safety processes to improve employee safety, 
reduce workplace risks, and drive continuous improvement.
Promoting a Safe Workplace
We continue to make progress on advancing a safety-first 
mindset and safety culture across IDEXX. A significant focus 
for 2021 has been our ongoing efforts to harmonize and 
streamline global processes and programs to enhance our 
transparency. This includes implementing our global safety 
incident management system across all IDEXX locations. With 
greater visibility into safety incidents, our goal is to help our 
employees be more proactive to reduce and prevent injuries 
from occurring. 
With this focus on prevention, we aim to target the right 
behaviors and actions to minimize risk and support safety 
performance. In 2021, we developed new global safety manuals 
and more robust tools for employees to support global 
inclusion to safety information and increase engagement. 
For example, we developed five visual safety manuals on 
global best practices to help educate employees with diverse 
backgrounds on EH&S risks, incident prevention measures, and 
our safety expectations.
We also provide a number of prevention-based ergonomic 
resources to help ensure employees do not sustain injuries. In 
particular, we implemented new safety training that included ergonomics modules for all our global reference labs and new 
hires in 2021, with approximately 95% completing the training.
Safety Performance 
Our goal is a zero incident, injury-free workplace. In 2021, our 
Lost-Time Incident Rate (L TIR) was 0.21 for our manufacturing 
sites. With all IDEXX locations now reporting incidents 
through our centralized, global reporting system, our safety 
performance remained strong in 2021 and below industry 
benchmarks for each of our diverse lines of business. Our 
Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) was 1.0, also in line with or 
below relevant industry benchmarks. Increased visibility into 
incidents across our enterprise helps us continue to drive 
improvements in our health and safety performance and our 
employees’ attention to workplace safety. We follow-up on and 
track all safety incidents and investigate serious cases in depth 
to determine corrective actions and enact necessary preventive 
measures once determined. 
    2019 2020 2021
Recordable Incident Rate (RIR)19 1.02 1.06 1.00
Lost Time Incident Rate (L TIR)20  0.06 0.15 0.21Safety Performance1895% 5
98% 
Global New Hires 
Completed Ergonomics 
Training & Self-AssessmentVisual Safety Manuals  
Implemented global best 
practices across IDEXX
Global Reference Lab Employees 
Completed Ergonomic Module 
Training
18 Safety records include employees and contract workers 
19 Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) is the number of employees per 100 full-time  
 employees that have been involved in an OSHA-recordable injury or illness
20 Lost Time Incident Rate (L TIR) is the number of incidents that result in time  
 away from work
38 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Launched in 2021, the IDEXX Supplier 
Resource Center transparently 
discloses our expectation that 
our suppliers operate in a socially and 
environmentally responsible manner in 
compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
For more information, visit IDEXX Supplier 
Resource Center . Responsible Supply Chain 
Delivering our quality products to customers is only possible through 
collaboration with our suppliers. Our global supply chain consists of our 
manufacturing sites, distribution centers, suppliers, sub-contractors, and third-
party logistics providers. We have five main manufacturing facilities, two in 
the U.S., one in France, one in Switzerland, and one in the UK. We also have an 
extensive Global Reference Laboratory Network.
As we build resiliency and adapt to the changing dynamics and disruptions 
of the global supply chain, we also continue to explore ways to reduce our 
environmental impact in our supply chain. For example, we’re working on new 
ways to use digital technology to consolidate orders and reduce the number of 
shipments to customers worldwide, while still meeting their expectations. We 
are also asking our suppliers to adopt more sustainable ways of shipping. These 
efforts help us take steps to decarbonize our supply chain while also supporting 
our business continuity and forecasting efforts.
Supplier Engagement 
We are committed to working with like-minded suppliers that share our vision for 
a better world. We expect our global business partners to conduct themselves in 
a manner consistent with our Supplier Code of Conduct , Code of Ethics , Global 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, and Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion  when acting for, on behalf of, or in the name of IDEXX.
We continue to expand our supplier risk evaluation processes, including 
launching new risk management software and self-assessment tools with 
our strategic suppliers. While the impacts of COVID-19 delayed our plans to 
work with a third-party auditing organization to help us advance our supplier 
assessment program, we are exploring opportunities to launch this effort in the 
near future. We also plan to engage with our suppliers and logistics providers to 
advance our understanding of our Scope 3 emissions and identify opportunities 
to reduce our impact across our value chain.Supply Chain Transparency and Human Rights 
Our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) materiality assessment 
validated supply chain management and human rights as important issues to 
our stakeholders. As we continue to develop our ESG strategy, we are evaluating 
opportunities to partner with our suppliers to reduce environmental impact, 
implement responsible labor policies and reduce the risk of adverse human 
rights impacts, and promote diversity, equity, and inclusion. We plan to undertake 
a human rights risk assessment focused on our supply chain in 2023. 
Our global regulatory team takes a holistic approach to monitoring the regulatory 
landscape and developing company-wide standards to meet or exceed regional 
regulatory requirements to ensure product quality and compliance. We continue 
to invest in technology to support our monitoring infrastructure and collect better 
data across our supply chain to inform and enhance our decision-making and 
approach. We have also expanded our external engagement with cross-industry 
groups to help us better understand broader industry impacts.
Our product compliance activities are aligned with standards and regulations, 
including the E.U. Directives on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) 
Directive and the E.U. Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation, and Restriction of 
Chemicals (REACH) Regulation. We also comply with supply chain transparency 
regulations and disclosure requirements through our Modern Slavery Statement  
and Conflict Minerals Policy. We are committed to meeting future regulatory 
changes as the landscape evolves. 
Supplier Quality Management
Product quality is a shared responsibility with our suppliers and they are required 
to have a quality management system that complies with recognized industry 
standards, such as ISO-9001 or ISO-13485. Our Supplier Quality Engineering 
team works directly with our supply partners to assure their quality management 
systems are aligned with IDEXX’s quality requirements. We regularly 
conduct audits with Tier 1 suppliers to verify control systems meet all IDEXX 
requirements and engage key suppliers in our version of Six Sigma training, 
known as FIVEX.
39 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Community Impact 
Through our solutions-oriented approach to social initiatives and 
community engagement, we are committed to creating a positive and 
lasting impact around the globe. We are also fostering a culture that 
encourages our employees to give back to their communities. 
Amplifying Our Global Impact
At IDEXX, we are committed to creating a positive and lasting impact 
for people, animals, and the environment. In 2020, we launched 
the IDEXX Foundation21 with an initial contribution of $10 million to 
support activities aligned with our Purpose. The IDEXX Foundation 
amplifies our ongoing local partnerships while also broadening our 
geographic reach and social impact. 
In 2021, we celebrated our first full year of grant making by 
supporting 36 projects aligned with our three focus areas: creating 
opportunities to help educate diverse leaders of tomorrow in STEM 
and animal health fields, caring for our companions by improving 
access to veterinary care for underserved communities, and fostering 
community-focused solutions for climate adaptation, access to clean 
water, and food sustainability. From the classrooms of Maine to the 
rangelands of the Maasai, these projects expand our global impact to 
nine countries on four continents, as well as diversify and deepen our 
commitment to the communities where we live and work.
Multi-year projects initiated 
as of December 2021Foundation grants 
distributed in 2021$6.9 millionmillion  
Initiatives funded on 
four continents as of 
December 202136 $2.2 millionmillion  
IDEXX Foundation Impact Report
Later this year, we plan to publish our first IDEXX Foundation Impact 
Report that will feature outcomes to date of global initiatives and 
profiles of new projects.Initiatives by Focus Area
The interconnectedness of human, animal, and environmental health drives the IDEXX Foundation to take a solutions-oriented approach to our 
global work. Through our initiatives, we strive to make positive and lasting impacts in three priority areas:
Caring for our companions Fostering water access, climate adaptation, 
and food sustainability solutions 
Creating opportunities for the diverse  
leaders of tomorrow
21 The IDEXX Foundation is a donor-advised fund administered by a national donor-  
 advised fund sponsoring program
40 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
IDEXX-Tuskegee University College of Veterinary 
Medicine Scholars 
In 2021, the IDEXX Foundation launched a multi-year $3.6 million 
initiative with the Tuskegee University College of Veterinary 
Medicine (TUCVM), an institution that has educated more than 70% 
of all African-American veterinarians in the United States. Aligned 
with our commitment to create diverse leaders of tomorrow by 
advancing diversity in the veterinary field, the initiative includes nine 
full scholarships, mental health support for veterinary students, 
emergency funding for students in need, and monies for important 
capital improvements at the TUCVM facilities. 
In 2022, we announced the first three IDEXX-TUCVM Scholars—Justin 
A. Hodrick, Brittany T. Howard, and Sydney N. Johnson—all first-year 
veterinary students and members of the TUCVM Class of 2025. Six 
more students will be selected for TUCVM Classes of 2026 and 2027.
“With IDEXX as a committed partner, we can continue to advance 
diversity and equity in veterinary medicine. IDEXX’s intentional 
commitment to support each recipient’s full academic journey 
through acquiring their DVM degree from TUCVM speaks to IDEXX’s 
extraordinary and strategic vision for the future of veterinary 
medicine.” 
· DR. RUBY L. PERRY , DVM, MS, PHD, DIPLOMATE-ACVR , DEAN OF  
  THE TUSKEGEE UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE
22  Auburn-CDC study examines frequency and means 
of suicide among veterinary professionalsPhoto: Thomas MartinPhotos: Gulf of Maine Research Institute and SAE International
Creating Opportunities 
for Diverse Leaders of 
Tomorrow 
By building capacity for STEM education and 
advancing science literacy for learners of all 
ages, we’re creating opportunities for diverse 
leaders of tomorrow and supporting their 
well-being. Examples of initiatives that we 
support:
Diversify Veterinary Medicine Coalition
The Diversify Veterinary Medicine Coalition 
(DVMC) is a group of animal health 
organizations and committed individuals 
coming together to address issues of 
diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging in 
veterinary medicine. Our support will help 
create a scholarship program and mentorship 
platform to create accessible pathways to 
veterinary medicine for Black, Indigenous, and 
People of Color (BIPOC) students. Gulf of Maine Research Institute 
Through its LabVenture program, the Gulf of 
Maine Research Institute (GMRI) increases 
access to science literacy for middle school 
students across Maine. Our support is helping 
to expand access to LabVenture’s hands-
on, interactive investigation of the changing 
Gulf of Maine ecosystem for students from 
indigenous and immigrant communities.
SAE International: A World in Motion 
Program 
SAE International’s A World In Motion® 
(AWIM®) program is an inquiry-based learning 
experience that brings STEM concepts to life, 
setting students on a path of lifelong learning 
and discovery. Our support will fund AWIM’s 
hands-on STEM programming for 1,400 K-8 
students and STEM education training to 25 
teachers in select communities in the U.S. 
and Canada.Expanding Access to Mental 
Health Support
Recent studies highlight many 
veterinarians are struggling with 
mental health challenges and the 
stress and demands of the pandemic 
have further exacerbated this 
distress. According to the American 
Veterinary Medical Association, female 
veterinarians are 2.4 times more 
likely to die from suicide compared 
to the general public, while male 
veterinarians are 1.6 times more 
likely.22 We recognize the pressure of 
becoming a veterinarian starts long 
before they begin practicing and we 
are committed to expanding access to 
mental health and well-being support 
for veterinary students and veterinary 
professionals around the world 
through our global social initiatives.41 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Caring for Our Companions 
We’re committed to improving equitable access to veterinary care, increasing our disaster response for animals at risk, and 
connecting people with animals that give comfort, mobility, and greater access to work and play. Examples of initiatives 
that we support:
Worldwide Veterinary Service 
Worldwide Veterinary Service (WVS) champions animal 
welfare around the world. They source veterinarians 
where they are needed most, providing expert veterinary 
training in hard-to-reach places.
With IDEXX Foundation support, WVS trained nearly 866 
veterinarians and veterinary assistants and treated more 
than 23,814 animals since 2021 at their International 
Training Centres (ITC) in India, Malawi, and Thailand and 
through WVS’s on-the-ground taskforce training team in 
Egypt, India, and Nepal. Our support also helped launch 
the WVS Academy, a global online veterinary resource, 
with nearly 64,000 site visits by veterinarians since 
the Academy launched in 2021. By offering aspiring 
veterinary professionals the chance to develop practical 
skills and learn best practices in animal welfare, WVS is 
increasing access to quality care to animals in need in 
some of the world’s most resource-limited settings. Rosebud Initiative and the Banfield Foundation
A collaboration between the IDEXX Foundation, 
Banfield Foundation, and other animal welfare 
organizations, the Rosebud Sioux Tribe Veterinary 
Clinic is a multi-year initiative to bring financially 
sustainable, Tribally directed preventive veterinary 
care and critical veterinary resources to the 20 
communities within the Rosebud Lakota Sioux Tribal 
community in South Dakota in the U.S. Anchored 
by a new veterinary clinic named Wamakanskan 
Wawokiye Oti, which translates as Helping Animal 
Center, the Rosebud initiative will provide access to 
care for owned and community animals. Through the 
Dr. Eric Jayne Scholarship Program, the initiative also 
provides education opportunities and full scholarships 
for Tribal members seeking careers in veterinary 
medicine.
Photo: Worldwide Veterinary Services
Photos: ViDAS / H. Navarro42 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT:
UK Volunteer Challenge
Held in conjunction with employees’ 
efforts to support mental health 
awareness, IDEXX employees in 
the UK and Ireland came together 
in June 2021 to contribute to 
their local communities as part 
of the UK Volunteer Challenge. 
Employees volunteered more than 
200 hours over the month, helping 
with beach and river clean-ups, 
wildlife conservation efforts, school 
outreach, and photography for a 
local hospice. They also helped 
raise over $2,500 for two local 
charities.
Expanding Investments in Clean 
Water and Climate Adaptation 
We continue to expand our focus on climate adaptation and nature-
positive projects to support access to clean water and build climate 
resilience. Examples of initiatives that we support:
charity: water 
Nearly 1 in 10 people worldwide live without clean water.23 
charity: water is on a mission to change that through sustainable, 
community-led water projects. We are supporting charity: water’s 
work to bring clean water to 30 communities throughout Africa and 
South Asia over the next three years. These projects aim to provide 
improved hygiene, sanitation, community health, and education, 
while helping to spark economic growth. 
Justdiggit
Nature-based regreening techniques can help communities thrive 
amid changing ecosystems caused by global warming. We are 
providing support to a larger multi-year initiative with Justdiggit, a 
nonprofit organization on a mission to green Africa over the next 
10 years. Overall, the initiative aims to restore 400 hectares of land 
and regenerate more than 300,000 trees by training 8,500 farmers 
on farmer managed natural regeneration and rainwater harvesting 
techniques, and will create sustainable employment for 60 Maasai 
women in Tanzania.
Sebago Clean Waters 
A coalition of nine nonprofit organizations and a regional water 
utility, Sebago Clean Waters is working to increase the pace of 
forest conservation in the Sebago Lake watershed to keep Maine’s 
largest drinking water supply clean. Our support is helping to 
catalyze and advance additional forest conservation and watershed 
protection efforts. Thus far, Sebago Clean Waters has already 
helped conserve 7,500 acres of high-priority forestland with water 
quality benefits.
Photos, clockwise from top left: Justdiggit, charity: water, Cait Bourgault Photography for Sebago Clean Waters
23  United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and World Health Organization (WHO), 201943 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Disaster and Emergency Relief
As a global company, we are committed to supporting the health 
and safety of our employees, customers, and suppliers in response 
to a natural disaster, extreme climate event, or emergency crisis. 
We are also committed to supporting the pets that are part of their 
families. 
To aid in response and recovery, IDEXX and the IDEXX Foundation 
work with local and global stakeholders to mobilize resources to 
help, including donating products for customers and registered 
charitable organizations providing relief. In addition, we also 
donate products and resources for pets in need in other emergency 
situations, such as for animals at risk due to neglect or abuse. 
In 2021, we supported several organizations providing direct 
support for at-risk animals and communities impacted by Hurricane 
Ida in Louisiana and Mississippi, the West Coast wildfires, and the 
tornadoes in the Southern U.S. We mobilized support in response 
to the tsunami that hit Tonga and the flooding disasters in Northern 
Europe and Australia. IDEXX Foundation also provided funding to 
the Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals to aid with the 
rehabilitation for a herd of 20 abused and neglected horses.
International Medical Corps
World Central Kitchen
The Louisiana SPCA, a nonprofit and shelter partner of the Banfield FoundationSupporting People and Animals Impacted by the War in Ukraine
Along with the international community, the devastating war in Ukraine was deeply 
concerning to us at IDEXX and we strongly condemned the invasion and violence there. 
We committed our support to people and animals in the region to enable essential care, 
including free rabies testing services at border crossings for refugees’ pets, and human 
testing supplies to support emergency room diagnostics. In addition, our employees 
organized a “Volunteer to Help Ukraine” Europe-wide initiative to collect basic pet supplies—
such as dry dog food, carriers, collars, and leashes—to be distributed to shelters and 
veterinarians providing direct support for the influx of animals. 
Through the IDEXX Foundation, we also supported relief efforts in the region, including 
contributions to International Medical Corps, International Fund for Animal Welfare, and 
World Central Kitchen. These organizations provided continuity of medical care and mental 
health support for refugees, financial support to shelters and zoos to care for displaced 
animals, and provided hundreds of thousands of meals each day to refugees in Ukraine, 
Poland, Moldova, Romania, and Hungary. 
To amplify our collective impact, IDEXX Foundation also matched employees’ donations 
around the world to these three organizations and expanded our volunteer policy to allow 
employees to use their volunteer time off (VTO) to help refugees with housing, registering 
with government support programs, and identifying job opportunities.
Photo: Julia Cumes / © IFAW44 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Volunteering and Community Engagement 
We encourage our employees to make a difference in the communities where they live and 
work. We offer employees paid Volunteer Time Off (VTO), up to 16 hours paid per year, to 
put their skills to use helping rescue animals, restoring hiking trails, mentoring the next 
generation of STEM talent, and more. Despite the ongoing pandemic, our employee volunteer 
hours more than doubled in 2021. 
Amplifying Community Impact through One IDEXX
In 2022, we partnered with Benevity to launch One IDEXX, a new 
global platform to drive employees’ community involvement. 
One IDEXX will empower our employees to make a difference, 
connecting them to millions of volunteer opportunities wherever 
they may live and nearly 2 million organizations to whom they 
can make contributions. The platform is global and supports 
equitable access to volunteering and giving opportunities for all 
eligible employees. One IDEXX will also allow IDEXX to amplify 
their impact with corporate-sponsored matching efforts, such as 
disaster response and emergency relief fundraising campaigns. 
Our goal is to increase the number of hours volunteered by 
employees globally to 15,000 by 2025.Contributing to Our Communities 
We look to our Purpose when we 
undertake community initiatives 
and embrace partnerships that 
bring that vision to life. Each 
year, IDEXX locations across 
North America undertake an annual United Way campaign 
in support of locally-focused community organizations.
 
Meet a few of our community partners:
IDEXX Safety Net Program: Animal Refuge League of Greater 
Portland • In 2021, IDEXX funded a new, three-year initiative with 
the Animal Refuge League of Greater Portland (ARLGP) called 
the IDEXX Safety Net program. The program provides support 
for transportation and veterinary care to relocate hundreds of 
animals from partner shelters and rescue organizations across 
the U.S. to ARLGP for adoption in Maine. 
Children’s Museum & Theatre of Maine • Our support helped 
launch the new IDEXX STEM Learning Hub, a creative 
collaboration designed to enhance opportunities for experiential 
STEM learning for children and families in Maine.
Dempsey Dogs Pet-Therapy Program • Powered by IDEXX 
employees and canine volunteers and supported by IDEXX, the 
Dempsey Dogs provide comfort and support to people impacted 
by cancer, especially children and teenagers, at the Maine-based 
Dempsey Centers.
K9’s for Warriors • Determined to end veteran suicide, K9’s for 
Warriors provides highly-trained service dogs—the majority of 
which come from high-kill rescue shelters—to veterans in need. 
With a five-year waitlist for service dogs, our support is providing 
resources for additional K9 trainers.
Junior Achievement Titan Challenge • IDEXX is the premier 
sponsor of the Junior Achievement Titan Challenge in Maine, a 
statewide annual STEM challenge where students become CEOs 
for a day and compete for scholarships. After a virtual event in 
2021, we welcomed approximately 50 high school students and 
IDEXX mentors to our World Campus location in 2022. Total corporate 
contributions 
to community 
organizations  
in 2021$500k
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT:
A “Tail” of Dempsey 
Dog Volunteers 
IDEXX employee, Renee Brezovsky, 
and her canine companion, 
Meadow, volunteer each week as 
official greeters at the Dempsey 
Center, a Maine-based nonprofit 
group that provides support 
to people impacted by cancer. 
Certified via the Pet Partners 
animal therapy program, Renee 
and Meadow are the first 
graduates of the IDEXX-sponsored 
“Dempsey Dog” pet-therapy 
program aimed at promoting 
mental well-being and healing.
24 For US, UK, and Germany employees only
25 For eligible employees as applicable by local guidelinesGlobal employee 
volunteer hours  
in 2021244,777
Paid volunteer time off 
(VTO) per year25Up to 16 hours
For more information on our new ESG goals, visit the ESG Goals and 
Commitments section of this report ‣45 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Governance
Aligned with our Purpose and 
Guiding Principles, we aim to 
lead responsibly and ethically, 
ensuring transparency, integrity, 
and accountability are at the center 
of everything we do at IDEXX. 
This commitment is fundamental 
to how we operate—ensuring we 
create long-term value for our 
stakeholders—and extends from our 
Board of Directors and executive 
leadership to all our employees. In this section:
• Governance Highlights
• Corporate Governance
• Global Ethics and Compliance
• Risk Management, Privacy, and 
Cybersecurity
• Policies, Commitments, and 
Disclosures46 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
20%
Racial or Ethnic Diversity on 
Board of Directors530%
Women on Board of Directors5
Governance Highlights
ESG Oversight 
Updated Board committee 
charters and Corporate 
Governance Guidelines  to clarify 
ESG oversight accountabilitiesCode of Eth ics
Refreshed training 
launched for all employeesCybersecurity 
Playbook
Updated cybersecurity 
incident response playbookPolicy on Political 
Contributions 
Adopted a Policy on Political 
Contributions and Public Policy 
Engagement that formalizes our 
long-standing practice of not 
making political contributions
5 Based on self-identification by members of the Board of Directors; data as of the date of the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
For more information on our progress on selected goals from our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report, see the ESG Appendix  ‣47 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Corporate Governance
IDEXX is committed to sound corporate governance 
practices to benefit our stakeholders, including our 
shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, and 
communities. Our shareholders elect our Board, which 
acts as stewards for IDEXX and our stakeholders. The 
Board and its committees meet throughout the year 
and regularly engage with management as part of 
fulfilling their oversight responsibilities and duties.
The Board has adopted corporate governance policies 
and practices, including Corporate Governance Guidelines , 
which provide a framework for effective Board oversight 
with an emphasis on responsible governance. These 
guidelines are founded on a commitment to build long-
term value for all our stakeholders and, together with our 
Code of Ethics and Board Committee Charters, provide 
the framework for corporate governance at IDEXX.
The Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee 
regularly assesses the corporate governance landscape 
to identify emerging practices that are aligned with our 
Purpose and enhance the creation of long-term value 
for all of our stakeholders. With that perspective, the 
Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee 
reviews our Corporate Governance Guidelines and other 
corporate governance policies and practices at least 
annually and, as necessary or advisable, recommends 
enhancements to the full Board for its approval. 
In 2021, we amended our Board committee charters and 
Corporate Governance Guidelines to clarify environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) oversight accountabilities. 
We also updated our insider trading policy and guidelines to 
reflect current best practices for insider trading compliance. 
For more information, see our 2022 Proxy Statement  
or visit Corporate Governance at www.idexx.com. Board of Directors 
Our Board of Directors is comprised of eight 
independent directors, our CEO, and our former 
CEO and Chair. Our Board has four committees, 
including:
• Audit Committee
• Compensation and Talent Committee
• Governance and Corporate 
Responsibility Committee
• Finance Committee
The Audit, Compensation and Talent, 
and Governance and Corporate 
Responsibility Committees are composed 
entirely of independent directors.
Our Board is committed to ensuring its continued 
effectiveness through succession planning and refreshment, actively seeking highly qualified 
Board member candidates, with a commitment 
to include diverse candidates who represent 
the full range of gender, race, ethnicity, and 
other dimensions of diversity of background, 
thought, and experience. Directors are also 
committed to engaging in rigorous annual self-
assessments of the Board, its committees, 
and each Board member, and in making 
continuing education opportunities available 
for our Board members on an ongoing basis.
Each year, the Governance and Corporate 
Responsibility Committee leverages insights 
from the Board’s annual review of our long-
term strategic plan and related enterprise risk 
assessment to identify the capabilities, skills, and 
experiences that it believes would best enable 
our Board to support our Purpose, including the 
creation of exceptional long-term value, both 
presently and in the future.
Lawrence D. 
KingsleyJonathan W. 
Ayers
Bruce L. Claflin Asha S. Collins, 
PhD
Stuart M. Essig, 
PhDDaniel M. Junius
Sam A. Samad
Sophie V. 
Vandebroek, PhD
Jay Mazelsky
M. Anne Szostak
Director 
Independence80% 
Women5 30% 
Racial or Ethnic 
Diversity5 20% 
Identify as 
LGBTQIA+510% 
Disability510% 
5 Based on self-identification by members of the Board of Directors; data as of the date of the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders48 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
The Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee then 
considers the results of our annual Board self-assessment and 
evaluates the Board’s composition and each Board member’s 
skill set to determine whether our Directors’ current capabilities, 
skills, and experiences align with the long-term needs of our 
Board. Based on its review, the Governance and Corporate 
Responsibility Committee determines whether and when Board 
refreshment is needed, as well as the capabilities, skills, and 
experiences that candidates should possess. The Governance 
and Corporate Responsibility Committee then engages in a 
process to identify candidates to recommend to the Board. Once 
candidates are recommended to the Board, the Board selects 
nominees to be voted upon by our shareholders, or if a candidate 
is recommended to fill a Board vacancy, he or she may be elected 
by the vote of a majority of the Board members then in office.
Board Diversity
We believe that diversity on our Board, including but not limited 
to gender, racial, and ethnic diversity, helps drive innovation 
and a better understanding of our stakeholders and contributes 
to Board effectiveness. Accordingly, our Governance and 
Corporate Responsibility Committee and Board focus on ensuring 
representation of a wide range of backgrounds and experiences 
on our Board, consider the value of diversity of all types in the 
Board member nomination process, and actively seek out highly 
qualified, diverse candidates to include in the pool of potential 
Board nominees.
For more information about our practices supporting 
Board effectiveness and our Board members’ experiences, 
qualifications, attributes, and skills, see our  2022  
Proxy Statement .Board Oversight
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines  and Board committee charters 
provide a framework for effective Board oversight on the following topics 
with additional information available in our 2022 Proxy Statement :
Corporate Responsibility and ESG Matters  
Our full Board oversees our overall strategy and management of material 
ESG risk and opportunities, and our Audit, Compensation and Talent, and 
Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committees support the Board 
on key ESG priority topics. For more information, see Our Approach to 
Corporate Responsibility  section of this report.
Legal and Ethical Conduct  
The Audit Committee oversees our Code of Ethics compliance monitoring, 
and the full Board exercises oversight over our compliance program for 
legal and ethical conduct. For more information, see Global Ethics and 
Compliance section of this report. 
Strategy and Risk Management  
Our full Board reviews strategic risks and opportunities facing IDEXX, 
including ESG-related risks and opportunities, as well as the results of 
management’s annual enterprise risk assessment. Other important risk 
categories, such as business continuity, are assigned to designated Board 
committees that report back to the full Board. For more information, see 
Risk Management  section of this report. 
Executive Compensation and Human Capital  
The Compensation and Talent Committee of the Board oversees the 
executive compensation program, policies, and practices and establishes 
performance goals for our executive compensation program. The 
Compensation and Talent Committee also oversees IDEXX’s key human 
capital and talent strategies and policies and our management of material 
human capital and talent risks and opportunities. For more information, 
see our 2022 Proxy Statement . 
Cybersecurity  
Our full Board oversees our cybersecurity risk management 
program. For more information, see Managing 
Cybersecurity Risks  section of this report. 
49 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Employees agree IDEXX  
conducts our business with the 
highest ethical standards  
2021 Annual Employee Ethics SurveyGlobal Ethics and Compliance 
Everything we do at IDEXX is guided by clear ethics policies and programs that are 
embodied in our Code of Ethics . We continue to advance our commitment to this Code, 
conducting our business with fairness and transparency, and building on our strong ethical 
culture that views compliance with our Code as a fundamental aspect of our growth. Our Code of Ethics
At IDEXX, being ethical is part of who we are. Our Code 
of Ethics promotes honest and ethical conduct, such as 
avoiding conflicts of interest, compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations, and representing IDEXX responsibly in 
the public arena.
The Code applies to IDEXX employees, contractors, and the 
Board of Directors. Every IDEXX employee receives training 
on the Code of Ethics and ethical business practices, as well 
as additional training related to their roles at IDEXX, both at 
time of hire and throughout their careers.
Employees are expected to take time to: 
• Understand our 
Code of Ethics and 
related guidelines and 
resources 
• Ask if they have a 
question about the 
Code or its application 
to a particular situation 
• Always act in accordance with 
our Code of Ethics and raise 
any concerns to their direct 
manager, a member of the 
Legal, Compliance, or Human 
Resources departments, or the 
IDEXX Ethics Hotline when they 
think something they encounter 
may be contrary to our Code
Our Code of Ethics training 
program includes lessons 
on ethical business practices, how to report ethical 
concerns without fear of retaliation, and reinforces that 
following IDEXX policies and procedures is a condition 
of employment. The supporting Code of Ethics Resource 
Guide outlines the policies, procedures, guidelines, toolkits, training materials, and answers to common questions 
for each section of the Code. Employees are required to 
annually review and acknowledge their commitment to our 
Code of Ethics within our global human resources system. 
We recently launched updated global Code of Ethics training 
that includes new ethics messaging from leaders across 
IDEXX.
Compliance Accountability
Our global Compliance team is a highly skilled, global 
team of compliance professionals with a mission to 
embed our Code of Ethics in all that we do. Led by our 
Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), this team is responsible 
for building and maintaining a global, effective corporate 
program that ensures 
compliance with our Code of 
Ethics and other applicable 
policies, standards, and legal 
and regulatory requirements. 
Our Compliance team 
proactively partners with 
our businesses and other 
enterprise-wide functions 
to support effective 
management of compliance 
risks and enable sustainable, 
compliant growth aligned 
with our Purpose and 
commitment to conduct 
business with the highest 
ethical standards.
Our Compliance Committee, 
comprised of the CEO, Chief 
Financial Officer, CHRO, 
General Counsel, and CCO, 
oversees our corporate compliance program, meeting on 
a quarterly basis to review compliance-related risks, risk 
management activities, and compliance programs. For more 
information on Board oversight of our Code of Ethics, see 
our 2022 Proxy Statement . Code of Ethics  
available languages18
97% Refreshed training launched 
for all employees with 
messaging from leaders 
across IDEXX
Code of Ethics
50 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Global Whistleblower Policy and 
the IDEXX Ethics Hotline 
We aim to foster a culture where employees feel 
comfortable speaking up about any potential 
compliance issues they may encounter without 
fear of retaliation. Our Global Whistleblower Policy 
supplements the Code of Ethics and clearly describes 
how any employee may report ethical or other 
concerns. Our Code of Ethics training includes our strict 
non-retaliation policy and recently updated content to 
help leaders incorporate ethics into their day-to-day 
leadership, and to properly handle and escalate ethics 
concerns when they arise.
We maintain global reporting mechanisms, including 
the IDEXX Ethics Hotline, a resource available for 
employees to report concerns. When employees need 
ethical guidance or have concerns about potential 
violations, we strongly encourage them to speak 
up to their direct manager, a member of the Legal, 
Compliance, or Human Resources departments, or the 
IDEXX Ethics Hotline. 
The IDEXX Ethics Hotline is managed by a third-
party vendor that provides toll-free 24/7 telephone 
helplines worldwide and web-based reporting tools 
in the reporter’s respective local languages. The 
availability of the IDEXX Ethics Hotline is promoted 
globally via on-line and in-person trainings. Reporters 
can choose to submit their questions and concerns 
either with their name or anonymously, subject to local 
legal restrictions. All incoming matters are reported 
to the Compliance team, regardless of how they are 
reported, and are tracked, triaged, and referred for 
review. The types of reports and inquiries received 
from stakeholders vary and include matters regarding human resource issues, business integrity and 
conduct, conflicts of interest, and safety, health, and 
physical environment. IDEXX continuously monitors 
inquiry trends and concerns reported to inform 
communications and training plans, improve our 
internal processes, and strengthen key skills.
Global Anti-Bribery and  
Corruption
As a global company, we are committed to conducting 
business in accordance with the highest ethics 
standards and in compliance with the U.S. Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery and 
corruption laws in other countries. Our Global Anti-
Bribery and Corruption Policy and global anti-bribery 
and corruption program are designed to increase 
awareness among our employees, agents, and affiliates 
about applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws and 
to detect and remediate any potential violations of such 
laws. We prohibit bribes and facilitation payments, 
provide operating guidelines addressing recordkeeping, 
approval procedures and appropriate behavior, and 
require third-party agents to agree to conduct IDEXX 
business in accordance with our principles. We 
continue to evolve our anti-bribery and anti-corruption 
audit and monitoring program, including conducting 
comprehensive risk assessments in two emerging 
geographies for IDEXX in 2021. 
In 2021, IDEXX also adopted a Policy on Political 
Contributions and Public Policy Engagement  that 
formalizes our long-standing practice of not making 
political contributions and confirms we do not have a 
political action committee.
51 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Risk Management, Privacy, and Cybersecurity
Effective risk assessment and management are essential to the long-term sustainability of our business. At IDEXX, risk assessment and 
management are embedded in our strategic planning and business processes, and our risk management framework provides our senior executives  
with visibility into risk changes over time to support informed risk decision-making that creates long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Management’s Role in Assessing and 
Managing Risks 
Under our risk management framework, we work to anticipate, 
assess, monitor, and manage emerging issues to identify existing 
and emerging risks and opportunities. Our management team 
is responsible for our enterprise risk assessment and risk 
management on a day-to-day basis. Our Chief Audit Executive 
leads our annual enterprise risk assessment process, in 
partnership with the Chief Corporate and Securities Counsel, to 
identify and understand IDEXX’s material risks and assess related 
risk management and mitigation strategies, structures, and 
practices. Presented to all our senior executives and our Board, the 
result of this annual enterprise risk assessment process supports 
IDEXX’s ability to continue to build a better, more resilient business.
We continue to advance the integration of ESG risks into our 
enterprise risk assessment and management processes and ESG 
opportunities into our strategic and business planning. Discussion 
of our most significant business risks is included in our 2021 Form 
10-K , and climate-related risks and opportunities are highlighted in 
our TCFD index in the ESG Appendix . 
The Board oversees our risk management activities and our 
corporate strategy. For more information, see our 2022  
Proxy Statement . Protecting Privacy 
We respectfully handle the personal information of our employees, 
customers, suppliers, job applicants, website visitors, and other 
business partners as part of our routine business operations. 
Our personal data privacy policies, standards, and procedures 
define our principles and approach for stewardship of personal 
information. They are aligned to common and evolving privacy 
principles derived from applicable privacy laws such as the 
European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) . 
In 2021, we appointed our first standalone Chief Privacy Officer 
to oversee our privacy program. This privacy program includes 
oversight by and routine engagement with a global and cross-
functional personal data privacy steering committee that includes 
our General Counsel and CCO. We continue to strengthen our 
compliance with existing and emerging global personal data 
privacy laws and promote internal practices to ensure we are 
transparent in our communication of our privacy practices and how 
we process personal information.
See our IDEXX Global Privacy Policy to learn more about how all of 
the IDEXX group of companies processes personal data. The policy 
is available in multiple languages.
52 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Managing Cybersecurity Risks 
Our cybersecurity program operates under governance, risk, and compliance processes that are 
aligned with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework  and 
other relevant international security standards. 
Our program is designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and continued 
availability of all information owned by, or in the care of, IDEXX. This program is led by our 
Chief Information Security Officer and his team and is overseen by a senior management-level 
cybersecurity risk steering committee that includes our Chief Audit Executive and General Counsel. 
Our Chief Information Security Officer reports directly to our Senior Vice President and Chief 
Information Officer. 
Our employees play a crucial role in safeguarding data. As our first line of defense, we assess and, 
where needed, train employees and contractors on good security habits and phishing identification. 
In addition, privacy training is provided to identify, protect, and preserve sensitive data and prevent 
cyber intrusions. Our robust information security training program provides tailored information 
security training to our employees twice per year, based on the specific results of periodic 
information security assessments.
Our cybersecurity program also includes a cyber incident response plan that provides controls and 
procedures for timely and accurate reporting of any material cybersecurity incident to executive 
leadership and the Board. We assess our cybersecurity risk management program at least annually 
against the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, and external third parties conduct annual assessments 
from time to time. We refreshed our cyber incident response plan in 2021 and completed a 
cybersecurity tabletop exercise with executive leadership in 2022.
Our full Board oversees our cybersecurity risk management program. Our Chief Information Officer 
and Chief Information Security Officer review our cybersecurity risks and risk management program 
and activities with the full Board at least annually and provide periodic additional updates to the 
Board as warranted. For more information, see our 2022 Proxy Statement .
As we look ahead, we are focused on reducing risk related to data security by continuing to raise the 
security knowledge of our employees and continuously improving our guidelines, processes, and 
technologies to protect employees, customers, and our operational technologies.
Ethical Marketing 
Because our primary business is the manufacture, 
marketing, and sale of companion animal diagnostic 
products and services, government regulation of 
our marketing, promotional, and pricing practices 
is generally limited. However, IDEXX adheres to all 
applicable regulations and is committed to marketing 
our products and services ethically by presenting 
truthful claims regarding the capabilities of our 
products and services that are substantiated, where 
relevant, by peer-reviewed and third-party studies. We 
are driven by our mission to advance the standard of 
care for companion animals across the globe. 
Our global marketing team maintains an internal 
policy and process for review and approval of all 
promotional materials to ensure that these materials 
are accurate and clear and comply with applicable 
laws and regulations and our commitment to ethical 
marketing. This policy and process are available 
internally and training is provided to applicable 
employees. In addition, IDEXX does not typically 
engage in direct-to-consumer marketing or advertising 
because our primary customers are veterinary service 
providers. Our interactions with veterinary service 
providers and other customers are governed by our 
Code of Ethics , as well as our Global Anti-Bribery and 
Corruption Policy. 
Our pricing strategy is rooted in the value of our 
differentiated products and services and our desire to 
advance the standard of care for companion animals 
globally. We regularly review and calibrate our pricing 
strategy.Global Trade Compliance 
We updated our Global Trade Compliance 
Policy in 2021, reaffirming our commitment 
to complying with all applicable trade 
sanctions, import, and export laws, and 
regulations of the U.S. and all other 
jurisdictions in which we operate worldwide. 
53 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Policies, Commitments,  
and Disclosures 
Code of Ethics
Supplier Code of Conduct
Commitment Statement to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Pay Equity Statement
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Disclosure
2021 UK Gender Pay Gap Report
2021 France Gender Pay Gap Report
Global Whistleblower Policy
IDEXX Global Privacy Policy  
IDEXX Ethics Hotline
Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy  
Modern Slavery Statement
Conflict Minerals Policy
Form SD and Conflict Minerals Report
IDEXX Supplier Resource Center 
Quality and Management System Response  
Corporate Governance Guidelines
Policy on Political Contributions and Public Policy Engagement
Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB) Index
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
UK Tax Strategy
54 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
ESG Appendix
In this section:
• Data Summary, 2019-2021
• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index
• Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
• Progress on Goals from 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report
55 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Data Summary, 2019-2021
Economic 2019 2020 2021 Reference
Total Company Revenue, U.S. Dollars (millions) 2,407 2,707 3,215
About IDEXX ‣ 
and  
idexx.com ‣Income from Operations, U.S. Dollars (millions) 553 695 932
Research & Development, U.S. Dollars (millions) 133 141 161
Total Global Locations * 105+ 115+
Customer Locations, countries and territories 175+ 175+ 175+Environment 2019 2020 2021 Reference
Greenhouse Gas Emissions , MT CO2e
Taking Climate 
Action ‣Scope 1 (fuels, natural gas, refrigerants) 17,345 13,499 16,646
Scope 2 (electricity use) 19,807 16,587 17,381
Total Scope 1 & 2 37,152 30,086 34,027
Scope 1 & 2 buildings (without vehicles) 29,474 24,510 26,027
Square footage (millions)262.1 2.2 2.3
Building emissions intensity  
(MT CO2e / 1,000 square feet)14.04 11.14 11.32
Energy Use, MWh
Reducing 
Operational 
Impact ‣Total energy use from renewable sources 0 0 252
Total energy use from non-renewable sources 54,758 52,224 55,973
Total Energy Use 54,758 52,224 56,225
Water Consumption 
Reducing 
Operational 
Impact ‣Water use, cubic meters 78,0901370,3001489,45014
Water intensity  
(cubic meters / 1,000 square feet)86.481367.991482.7514All data is as of December 31 in the indicated year, unless otherwise noted.
Additional information is available in our annual reports on Form 10-K and Proxy Statements at www.idexx.com ‣
13 Water consumption for 43% of square footage
14 Water consumption for 47% of square footage
26 Square footage in accordance with GHG protocol * Not previously reported56 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Data Summary, 2019-2021
Social 2019 2020 2021 Reference
General Employee Data
People &  
Culture ‣Total full- and part-time employees, 
approximate9,200 9,300 10,350
Employees by region, Americas * 69% 68%
Employees by region, Europe, Middle East, 
Africa (EMEA) * 25% 24%
Employees by region, Asia Pacific  
Region (APO) * 6% 8%
Employee Data by Age
People &  
Culture ‣Employees under age 30 * * 18%
Employees age 30–50 * * 61%
Employees over age 50 * * 21%
Gender Data
Diversity, Equity, 
& Inclusion  ‣Women in global workforce * 57% 58%
Women in global management ² * * 48%
Women in global senior leadership 17 * 30% 34%
Women in global senior executive roles 27 * 25% 24%
Women in STEM roles 6 * * 59%Social, continued  2019 2020 2021 Reference
U.S. Workforce Representation Data
Diversity, Equity, 
& Inclusion  ‣% U.S. employees, underrepresented racial and 
ethnic groups15* 22% 22%
% U.S. employees, White/Caucasian * * 76%
% Decline to state * * 1%
Underrepresented racial and ethnic groups in 
U.S. management²,15* * 15%
Underrepresented racial and ethnic groups in 
U.S. senior leadership15,17* 7%288%
Underrepresented racial and ethnic groups in 
U.S. senior executive roles 15,27 * 11%2811%
Global Employee Turnover 
(Voluntary and Involuntary) 
Form 10-K ‣Total number of employee turnover rate 
(number employee turnovers/total employees) * * 14%
Voluntary turnover rate (number of voluntary 
turnovers/total employees)* 8% 12%
Voluntary turnover rate for managerial and 
professional staff (number of voluntary 
turnovers/employees)* * 6%
Note: Some totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding
* Not previously reportedFor more information, see our latest EEO-1 survey data disclosure .‣
2  Employees in people leadership roles (all levels) 
6 Includes STEM professional and technical support roles in computer and math (e.g., software developers), engineering (e.g., process engineers), physical and life sciences  
 (e.g., senior scientists), veterinary professionals (e.g., clinical pathologists, professional services veterinarians, or medical laboratory technicians), and STEM managerial  
 (e.g., laboratory managers) 15 Based on self-identification by our U.S. employees. The term ‘underrepresented racial and ethnic groups’ is defined as African American/Black, Asian, Hispanic/Latinx, and  
 other. Other is defined as American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races 
17 Global Senior Leaders are employees in compensation grades considered Director or above
27 Employees in compensation grades considered Senior Vice President or above
28 As of October 202057 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Data Summary, 2019-2021
Social, continued 2019 2020 2021 Reference
Employee Engagement Survey
People &  
Culture ‣ Participation rate for employee myVOICE 
survey (2020 was Pulse survey format)82% 71% 85%
Safety Performance18
Workplace 
Health &  
Safety ‣Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) 19 1.02 1.06 1.00
Lost Time Incident Rate (L TIR) 20 0.06 0.15 0.21
Social Impact
IDEXX 
Foundation ‣IDEXX Foundation grants, U.S. Dollars * * 2,200,000
 Number of initiatives * * 36
Corporate contributions, U.S. Dollars 840,000 1,000,000 500,000
Community 
Impact ‣Value of product donations, disaster relief or 
community outreach, U.S. Dollars* * 681,000
Employee volunteer hours 24 7,194 1,927 4,777
18 Safety records include employees and contract workers
19 Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) is the number of employees per 100 full-time employees that have been involved in an OSHA-recordable injury or illness
20 Lost Time Incident Rate (L TIR) is the number of incidents that result in time away from work
24 For US, UK, and Germany employees only* Not previously reported
Photo: Worldwide Veterinary Service58 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Data Summary
Based on the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in the indicated year
Governance 2019 2020 2021 2022 Reference
Board of Directors
Corporate 
Governance ‣
and
Proxy 
Statements  ‣Separate Board Chair and CEO No Yes Yes Yes
Independent Board Chair or Lead Director Yes Yes Yes Yes
Voting standard in uncontested elections Majority Majority Majority Majority
Resignation policy Yes Yes Yes Yes
Board of Directors, % independent 88% 80% 80% 80%
Commitment to board diversity, including 
racial, ethnic and gender diversityYes Yes Yes Yes
Board of Directors, % women 5 38% 30% 30% 30%
Board of Directors, % racially or ethnically 
diverse5 * * 20% 20%
Board of Directors, % identify as LGBTQIA+ 5 * * * 10%
Board of Directors, % have disability 5 * * 10% 10%
Annual Board self-assessment Yes Yes Yes Yes
Shareholder Rights
Proxy 
Statements  ‣Inequitable voting rights No No No No
Proxy access Yes Yes Yes Yes
Poison Pill No No No NoGovernance, continued 2019 2020 2021 2022 Reference
Board Oversight
Corporate 
Governance ‣Board oversight of corporate responsibility and 
environmental, social, and governance mattersYes Yes Yes Yes
Board oversight of cybersecurity risk 
managementYes Yes Yes Yes
Board oversight of strategy Yes Yes Yes Yes
Board oversight of risk management Yes Yes Yes Yes
Executive Compensation Policies and Practices
Proxy 
Statements  ‣Stock ownership guidelines Yes Yes Yes Yes
Clawback policy Yes Yes Yes Yes
Anti-Hedging and short sale policy Yes Yes Yes Yes
Anti-Pledging policy Yes Yes Yes Yes
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
Global Ethics & 
Compliance ‣Monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated 
with corruption and briberyNo No No No²9
Policy on Political Contributions 
and Public Policy EngagementNo No Yes Yes
5 Based on self-identification by members of the Board of Directors; data as of the date of the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders 29  For the six-month period ended June 30, 2022* Not previously reported59 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Report 
DimensionGeneral Issue Category  
Accounting Metric Code Location/Response
Social Capital Affordability & Pricing
Ratio of weighted average of net price increases 
(for all products) to the annual increase 
in the U.S. Consumer Price Index HC-MS-240a.1 IDEXX does not disclose this data. Please see the Ethical Marketing  section of our report for additional information regarding our pricing strategy.
Description of how price information for each product 
is disclosed to customers or to their agents HC-MS-240a.2 IDEXX products and services pricing guides are provided to IDEXX’s direct and wholesale customers electronically or by mail. Product and services catalogs and pricing 
information can also be obtained by contacting an IDEXX sales representative and are accessible through IDEXX’s on-line ordering platforms. Typical terms include master 
terms and schedules, publicly available on our website here. Price is affected by many factors, including but not limited to volume, geographic region of customer, and  
type of customer.
Product Safety
Number of recalls issued, total units recalled HC-MS-250a.1 OPTI Medical products are subject to FDA regulations. In 2021, IDEXX’s OPTI line had a voluntary, class II recall of OPTI SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR Tests due to a precipitation  
 issue which may cause late Ct reactors (a false positive results) with a rate of 5 to 10% for affected vitals of RNA Master Mix. The FDA recall was initiated on 6/25/2021  
and affected 3,552 kits.
List of products listed in FDA’s MedWatch Safety 
Alerts for Human Medical Products databaseHC-MS-250a.2 OPTI Medical products are subject to FDA regulations. IDEXX had no products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts database.
Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the 
FDA Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience HC-MS-250a.3 None
Number of FDA enforcement actions taken 
in response to violations of current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type HC-MS-250a.4 None
Ethical Marketing 
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with false marketing claimsHC-MS-270a.1 None
Description of code of ethics governing 
promotion of off-label use of productsHC-MS-270a.2 We produce and deliver safe and effective products and services that people trust. Each country in which we do business has specific laws and regulations designed to 
ensure that products and services such as ours are safe and can be used appropriately. We comply with these laws and regulations, and with the licensing, registration,  
and other regulatory requirements that govern our ability to import, promote, and sell our products and provide our services. Please see our Ethical Marketing  section for  
more information.Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index Industry: Medical Equipment and Supplies Industry  
All data reflects metrics for the year ended December 31, 2021 
unless otherwise noted.60 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Business 
Model & 
InnovationProduct Design & Lifecycle Management 
Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental 
and human health considerations associated with chemicals 
in products, and meet demand for sustainable productsHC-MS-410a.1 New Product Development cycles includes reviews of global regulations related to the product type in development, including review of raw substances and mixtures used for 
environmental or human health impacts, or regional electrical safety or product compositions laws for analyzers or other products under development. Post product launch, 
IDEXX monitors changing global regulations related to the environmental or human health considerations that may impact existing product on the market. IDEXX continues to 
expand our technology and global networks to increase visibility to new or evolving laws that may impact our products or materials used in our products. 
Total amount of products accepted for take-back 
and reused, recycled, or donated, broken down by: 
(1) devices and equipment and (2) supplies HC-MS-410a.2 IDEXX offers a ‘single swap’ service model that ensures our customers are not without critical product. In 2021, IDEXX had 28 products available to be repaired globally. At our 
Westbrook, ME repair facility only, component repairs resulted in over 23 tons of parts for reuse. In addition, IDEXX supports recycling programs available to European Union 
customers. Please see our Product Stewardship section for more information.
Supply Chain Management 
Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier 1 
suppliers’ facilities participating in third-party audit 
programs for manufacturing and product quality HC-MS-430a.1 (1) 100% of IDEXX manufacturing facilities  are ISO certified, including one or more of the following: ISO 9001, 14001, 13485, and 17025. (2) IDEXX performs quality audits 
of Tier 1 suppliers to ensure product quality and safety. IDEXX does not currently mandate Tier 1 Suppliers to provide third-party quality audit information. Please see our 
Responsible Supply Chain  section for more information. 
Description of efforts to maintain traceability 
within the distribution chain HC-MS-430a.2 We are in the ongoing process of enhancing supply chain traceability initiatives. Please see our Responsible Supply Chain  section for more information.
Description of the management of risks 
associated with the use of critical materials HC-MS-430a.3 Please refer to IDEXX’s Conflict Minerals Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct .
Leadership & 
GovernanceBusiness Ethics
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with bribery or corruption HC-MS-510a.1 None
Description of code of ethics governing 
interactions with health care professionalsHC-MS-510a.2 Please refer to the IDEXX Code of Ethics , specifically, the We interact fairly and transparently with our Customers section. This section of the Code of Ethics, along with the 
Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, provide guidance and policies around interactions with our customers. Every IDEXX employee receives training on the Code of 
Ethics and ethical business practices, as well as additional training related to their roles at IDEXX, both at time of hire and throughout their career at IDEXX. Ethics violations 
can be reported through our IDEXX Ethics Hotline  and all reports are subject to the Global Whistleblower Policy. 
Other Activity Metrics
Number of units sold by product category HC-MS-000.A IDEXX publishes select quarterly instrument placement product amounts by quarter in our Quarterly Earnings Releases .
Supplemental SICS Industry: Software & IT Services
Human 
CapitalRecruiting & Managing a Global, Diverse & Skilled Workforce
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group  
representation for:  
(1) management  
(2) technical staff, and  
(3) all other employeesTC-SI-330a.3 Please see the People & Culture  section for more information. 61 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
At IDEXX, we are committed to providing transparency on climate change 
risk management. Following TCFD guidance, we conducted an analysis of 
our climate-related risks and opportunities. This disclosure provides the key 
insights from our analysis. We will continue to provide details on our plans 
to manage material climate-related risks and opportunities on an annual 
basis.
Governance
A. Describe the organization’s governance around 
climate-related risks and opportunities.
B. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and opportunities.
Our full Board of Directors exercises oversight over our overall strategy and 
management of material environmental, social, and governance (ESG) risks 
and opportunities, including the physical and transition risks associated 
with climate change, and the Governance and Corporate Responsibility 
Committee supports our Board in this oversight responsibility by 
periodically reviewing our key strategies, policies, programs, practices, risks 
and opportunities relating to environmental and sustainability matters. Our 
senior managers and executives brief the full Board annually regarding the 
results of our annual enterprise risk assessment, including risks related to 
climate change; periodically review our environmental and sustainability 
strategy, policies, programs, practices, risks and opportunities with the 
Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee; and annually review 
our business continuity planning, which is affected by climate change-
related issues, with the Audit Committee. Our senior managers and 
executives will also brief the Board and its committees throughout the 
year on an ad-hoc basis on issues directly and indirectly related to climate 
change.
Our Executive Vice President (EVP) and General Manager, Point of Care 
Diagnostics and Worldwide Operations has executive oversight of our 
approach to environmental matters, including climate and energy. She also 
leads our Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee, which reviews 
climate-related issues and progress on environmental footprint reduction 
monthly. The Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee includes 
senior management from Operations, Supply Chain, Legal, Technology, Research and Development, and key business functions. Material climate 
information is disseminated regularly from the Environmental Sustainability 
Steering Committee to our Corporate Responsibility Executive Committee, 
which includes the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), General Counsel, and other 
executives.
Our environmental sustainability team sits within Operations, and is 
responsible for bringing recommendations, insights, and updates on 
environment-related disclosures, regulations, and footprint reduction to 
the Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee. This group is also 
supported by our Global Corporate Responsibility team as a part of our 
holistic approach towards managing ESG issues.
As we grow our environmental sustainability program, embedded 
employees and cross-functional teams are being developed that include 
facilities, commercial fleet, supply chain, research and development, 
and each of our lines of business. Embedded teams will accelerate our 
progress towards our environmental goals and assist with updates and 
recommendations provided to the Environmental Sustainability Steering 
Committee.
We are continually monitoring the external ESG landscape and intend to 
refine our governance structures and frequency of Board and committee 
updates as needed.
Strategy
A. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization 
has identified over the short, medium, and long term.
B. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on 
the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
C. Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, 
taking into consideration different climate-related 
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. 
IDEXX has conducted a climate-focused scenario analysis, resulting in 
the identification of key risks and opportunities. While IDEXX believes that 
many climate change-related issues may only affect us over medium and long-term time horizons, one factor that poses short-term risk to our 
business is acute physical risk. As detailed in our risk table, increased 
frequency and severity of extreme weather events could impact IDEXX 
suppliers, manufacturing locations, logistics, and/or customers in the 
short term. These risks include physical risks associated with climate 
change and transition risks that may result from a greater focus on climate 
issues by stakeholders across the marketplace. In response to this and all 
climate-related risks and opportunities we’ve identified, we are developing 
a roadmap that will contribute to IDEXX’s long-term value creation and 
incorporate sustainability workstreams into core business processes. Key 
focuses of our plan include:
Impact reduction
IDEXX is committed to reducing our operational GHG footprint, as 
detailed in the Metrics & Targets section of this disclosure. To accomplish 
our emissions targets, we are focusing on energy efficiency projects, 
procurement of renewable energy, and transitioning our commercial 
fleet to more fuel-efficient options. Our plans to reduce environmental 
impact expand beyond Scope 1 & 2 emissions. We are incorporating 
sustainable design concepts and requirements into our New Product 
Development process, our plans for new buildings, and innovations for on-
market products. We are also making our packaging more sustainable, as 
evidenced in our new insulated packaging. We strive to utilize recertified 
and refurbished instruments when possible to avoid new instrument 
production. To accomplish this, we are investing heavily in instrument 
repair and upgradability to improve the customer experience while lowering 
our need for new materials.
Building resiliency
IDEXX is focused on resilience in the face of macroeconomic challenges. 
Material shortages and supply chain continuity are being impacted by many 
factors, and physical climate risks will only add to those risks. In response, 
IDEXX is improving visibility into its upstream supply chain and plans to 
expand supplier engagement to include more detail on environmental 
topics. IDEXX is also factoring potential disruptions into inventory and 
manufacturing planning. As we grow, we will continually consider climate-
related risks and opportunities in how we expand our operations.62 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Scenario Name Walled World Automation Acceleration Resilient Rebirth
Key Parameters A geopolitically fragmented world, a 
challenging economic situation and 
scaled environmental shocksA geopolitically fragmented world, a 
slow global economy and ramping-
up climate impactsA recovering economy fully 
embracing the low-carbon transition 
in a cooperative way, still subject to 
environmental shocks
Temperature Assumptions  (above 
pre-industrial levels by 2100)+4°C  
Rising emissions+3°C  
Slowly declining emissions+1.5°C  
Strongly declining emissions
Emissions Reduction Models Representative Concentration 
Pathway 8.5
Shared Socioeconomic Pathway 3 
(high challenges to mitigation and 
adaptation)Representative Concentration 
Pathway 6.0
Shared Socioeconomic Pathway 4 
(low challenges to mitigation, high 
challenges to adaptation)Representative Concentration 
Pathway 2.6
Shared Socioeconomic Pathway 1 
(low challenges to mitigation and 
adaptation)
Physical Climate Impact Models The World Bank Climate Knowledge 
PortalThe World Bank Climate Knowledge 
PortalThe World Bank Climate Knowledge 
PortalFigure 1Stakeholder engagement
Stakeholder engagement is critical for IDEXX to understand priority 
sustainability topics and take in all perspectives on the best path forward 
on environmental issues. We conducted an ESG materiality assessment 
in 2021 that was foundational towards understanding the perspectives 
of our customers, employees, investors, suppliers, and other external 
stakeholders. We have engaged customers in research about product and 
packaging with the goal of minimizing the material we ship. We also plan 
to increase supplier engagement on ESG topics, including emissions, in 
2022, which will help us better understand the impact of our value chain. 
Continued stakeholder engagement will help IDEXX identify climate-related 
risks and opportunities proactively and incorporate them into our decision-
making.
Scenario Analysis
IDEXX partnered with BSR (Business for Social Responsibility), a global 
nonprofit, to develop three scenarios for 2030, which explore climate-
related risks and opportunities, third-party climate projections, and other 
key uncertainties relevant to IDEXX’s business. The scenario analysis 
process involved the following steps:• Understanding Context: BSR interviewed internal stakeholders to 
identify key trends that are shaping IDEXX’s future operating context. 
BSR conducted complementary research on trends (environmental, 
economic, social, political, and technological) relevant to IDEXX’s 
industry and geography. These were corporate consolidation, 
stakeholder expectations on sustainability, raw material accessibility, 
transport and distribution, and impacts on the workforce.
• Scenario Development: IDEXX leveraged a set of three 2030 
climate scenarios developed by BSR for the We Mean Business  
coalition, with extensive input from the climate community. 
The scenarios were augmented with industry and geography 
trends and incorporated credible climate projections (from 
~1.5°C—~4°C) for emissions reductions and climate impacts, 
as shown in Figure 1. Key variables assessed included GHG 
emissions, energy consumption, and carbon price physical 
impacts, including temperature change, heat wave, and rainfall.
• Strategic Implications:  A workshop was conducted with internal 
IDEXX stakeholders to identify the potential risks and opportunities 
for IDEXX within each scenario and identify interventions 
to enhance IDEXX’s resilience and refine its strategy.Scenario Descriptions 
Under Walled World : Political divides are exacerbated 
by COVID and the climate crisis. Governments are 
building walls, hoarding resources, and focused on 
self-sufficiency. Tribalism and distrust are rampant, 
and global cooperation on climate and other issues 
suffers. This scenario is aligned with a 4°C trajectory.
Under Automation Acceleration : Lingering COVID 
disruptions slow travel and trade and accelerate 
automation and virtuality. Big Tech becomes more 
dominant and governments experiment with new 
social contracts. Decarbonization is driven by tech 
advances, not coordinated policy. This scenario is 
aligned with a 3°C trajectory.
Under Resilient Rebirth : The effort to contain COVID 
ultimately sparks global collaboration on a wide range 
of issues as governments realize “we’re all in this 
together.” Capital markets prioritize long term value 
creation. The global economy now takes “resilience” 
rather than “growth” as its north star. This scenario is 
aligned with a 1.5°C trajectory.63 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
Opportunity Category Time Horizon Impact Opportunity Description
Resource Efficiency Short Moderate Efficient buildings and transportation operations  
Improving the energy efficiency of our buildings and establishing 
efficiency requirements for new buildings will allow IDEXX 
to reduce the cost of utilities. Similarly, transitioning our 
commercial fleet to hybrid and electric vehicles will reduce  
fuel costs.
Resource Efficiency Medium High Development of resource-efficient products  
Smaller and more efficient products can reduce costs 
associated with procurement, shipping, and operations. IDEXX 
is already making significant strides in this area. New analyzers 
are made using fewer parts and weighing less than their 
predecessors and multi-testing innovations are allowing our labs 
to conduct more tests in less time and using less equipment.
Products & Services Medium Moderate Incorporation of eco-design and circular economy  
Resource constraints and sustainability expectations could 
dictate the use of less raw materials. IDEXX could capitalize 
on this market shift through our products that are designed for 
longevity and our network of regional service depots that can 
repair products and send them back into local markets.
Markets Long Moderate New and expanded diagnostic markets  
Climate change has the potential to increase tick-borne and 
water-borne diseases, both in terms of regional reach and overall 
cases of disease. IDEXX is in position to help new regions 
combat higher levels of disease associated with ticks and water.
Resilience Long Low Flexible point of care solutions  
Climate disruptions and other market trends may create 
customer preferences for at-home or in-clinic tests. Using cloud-
enabled technologies, IDEXX can support our customers with 
diagnostic results through multiple modalities and delivery 
channels.
Resilience Long Low Flexible workforce 
Hybrid and remote work employment models represent 
opportunities for IDEXX to adapt to evolving customer needs. 
Teleradiology, artificial intelligence, and machine learning 
solutions can build resilience for our customers by enabling 
remote work.Risk Category Time Horizon Impact Risk Description
Acute Physical Short Moderate Risk of increased frequency and severity of extreme weather 
events 
As climate change impacts the severity and frequency of natural 
weather events, the risk grows that an event may impact our 
operations or supply chain. With suppliers, customers, and 
offices in all regions of the globe, IDEXX could be exposed to a 
number of changing weather patterns.
Policy & Legal Medium Low Risk of new carbon pricing regulations  
With operations in more than 25 countries and plans to continue 
growth in global markets, IDEXX’s energy costs could be 
impacted by pending or future regulation of carbon and  
energy markets.
Market Medium Moderate Risk of scarcity of raw materials 
Increased competition for critical raw materials and potential 
for geopolitical trade barriers and supply chain disruption 
could challenge IDEXX’s ability to maintain its supply of critical 
components. This risk could lead to a higher probability of 
outages and higher costs to procure raw materials for  
our products.
Reputation Medium Low Risk of stakeholder scrutiny of climate-related issues  
Expectations of sustainable operations, products, and 
supply chain could increase over time. This risk includes the 
possibility of customers making purchasing decisions based on 
environmental preferences, as well as current and prospective 
talent choosing employers based on sustainability performance.
Chronic 
PhysicalLong Moderate Risk of rising temperatures and sea levels 
Chronic results of climate change such as higher average 
temperatures and rising sea levels could impact IDEXX’s 
workforce and customer base in certain regions. Higher average 
temperatures could threaten worker productivity and product 
functionality. Rising sea levels could disrupt supplier and/or 
customer operations.
Definitions:  
Time Horizon: Short (0-3 years), Medium (3-10 years), Long (10-30 years)  
Financial Impact: Low, Moderate, High64 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
As a result of this process, we identified six areas of our strategy that 
may incur risks and opportunities across all scenarios: workforce, supply 
chain and access to raw materials, data use and privacy, physical impacts, 
market outlook and competition, and innovation of products and services. 
During the scenarios workshop, IDEXX identified key interventions to 
improve strategic resilience for each of these areas. These insights and 
interventions have been reviewed by the Environmental Sustainability 
Steering Committee and incorporated into IDEXX’s enterprise risk 
management process in order to ensure strategic resilience.
Risk Management
A. Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing 
climate-related risks.
B. Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-  
related risks.
C. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing 
climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall  
risk management.
Our executive leadership and Board of Directors are focused on effectively 
managing our strategic and business risks, including climate change-
related risks. The process to identify and manage climate risk is integrated 
into our standard enterprise risk management program led by our Vice 
President (VP), Internal Audit and VP , Chief Corporate & Securities Counsel. 
We identify, monitor, assess, and communicate these risks to help inform 
our operating and investment decisions.
Metrics & Targets
A. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-  
related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.
B. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions and the related risks.
C. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities and performance against targets.As of 2022, IDEXX is setting a Scope 1 & 2 emissions reduction target 
in line with the UN Paris Agreement and the Science Based Targets 
Initiative’s pathway for limiting warming to 1.5°C. IDEXX is targeting a 
37.8% reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 2030, using a 2021 baseline . 
IDEXX has completed three years of GHG emissions footprinting:
In addition to the Scope 1 & 2 emissions reduction target, we have set other 
environmental goals to reduce our impact and improve data collection and 
stakeholder engagement as outlined in our ESG Goals and Commitments .Year 2019 2020 2021
Scope 1, MT CO2e 17,345 13,499 16,646
Scope 2, MT CO2e 19,807 16,587 17,381
Scope 1 & 2, Total MT CO2e 37,152 30,086 34,02765 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
ESG General
Undertake a third-party ESG materiality assessment Achieved
Continue to strengthen ESG data management systemsAchieved and 
continuingProgress on Goals from 2020 Corporate 
Responsibility ReportIn Development In Progress Achieved
Environment
Undertake a third-party carbon footprint assessment Achieved
Further develop disclosure of climate-related risks in line with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial DisclosuresIn progress
Track energy and water usage at all IDEXX-owned facilities and industrial sites, 
and assess feasibility of tracking energy and water usage at 15% of IDEXX 
locations which are tenant-operated buildings and not currently covered in our data 
management systemsIn progress
Develop a multi-year environmental sustainability strategy with science-based 
targets and goals for managing our environmental footprintIn progress
Strengthen global employee engagement and communication on environmental 
sustainability initiativesIn progress 
We are committed to continuing our efforts to reduce the environmental impact of 
SNAP® tests. This includes initiatives designed to: 
• Replace expanded polystyrene with insulation that is curbside recyclable 
• Develop more ambient shipping options for all major SNAP® tests, removing 
cold packs, reducing container size, and reducing shipping emissionsAchieved and 
continuing
Work with third-party auditing organizations to assess environmental performance 
and compliance with our Supplier Code of ConductIn development
Work with our supply chain network to reduce carbon emissions. Current and 
upcoming projects in this area will reduce product movement, increase efficiency 
of shipping schedules, and improve our ability to forecast demandIn progress
Continue to advance green packaging solutions, such as ongoing testing for new 
cold-chain packaging options made from recycled or environmentally friendly 
materials that allow our customers to participate in convenient and sustainable 
disposal of product packagingIn progress66 INTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX
 Social
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI)
Shape, activate, and integrate DEI into global business practices In progress
Launch a formal enterprise-wide DEI Education Program, including training for 
senior executivesAchieved
Build inclusive capability and competency and reduce bias in talent processes In progress
Continue to partner with organizations aimed at advancing diversity in our 
communities, as well as in animal health, veterinary medicine, and STEMAchieved and 
continuing
Expand our DEI communications across the organization and externally to increase 
awareness of our commitment and effortsIn progress 
Employee Well-Being
Continue to expand IDEXX well-being culture and programs through global 
representation on the Well-being Steering Committee and build a well-being 
champion network throughout our locations around the worldAchieved and 
continuing
Expand the Make It OK campaign to all IDEXX locationsAchieved and 
continuing
Continue to adapt in-person support services to virtual platforms and make IDEXX 
well-being programs more globally inclusiveAchieved and 
continuing
Focus on increasing program engagement for employees in all workplace locations 
across the company, especially those without regular access to a computerIn progress
Workplace Health & Safety
Expand our safety incident management system to be accessible for all IDEXX 
locations and provide global managers and supervisors with dashboards that 
report trends from their departments’ incidents. Increasing engagement on safety 
incidents will help our employees be more proactive and potentially reduce injuries 
from occurringAchieved and 
continuingStrengthen our global communication channels to promote our safety culture and 
provide tools to our employees, such as continuing to convene EH&S town hall 
meetings with Operations managers and supervisors. These events streamline 
information distribution and create opportunities for employee feedbackAchieved and 
continuing
Continue positive trends of reduced recordable incidents, lost time, and restricted 
time from workplace incidentsAchieved and 
continuing
Community Impact
Engage with global IDEXX locations to roll out new Corporate Responsibility 
Investment PolicyIn Progress
Establish framework for tracking and communicating outcomes of investments 
and partnershipsAchieved and 
continuing
Launch Global Employee Match Emergency Response Program to support animals 
and people impacted by extreme climate eventsAchieved and 
continuing
Implement system to track contributions to community organizations at IDEXX 
global locationsAchieved and 
continuing
Create volunteering opportunities for IDEXX veterinarians and veterinary 
techniciansAchieved and 
continuing
Increase employee engagement with community involvement and awareness of 
global partnershipsAchieved and 
continuingProgress on Goals from 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report
Governance
Code of Ethics training and awareness remains a key strategic focus area, with 
particular emphasis on our managers to help them foster an ethical culture within 
their team—building on the IDEXX Leader’s Guide to Living Our Code of EthicsAchieved and 
continuingINTRODUCTION    INNOVATION & ACCESS    ENVIRONMENT    SOCIAL    GOVERNANCE    ESG APPENDIX 67
IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. 
One IDEXX Drive  
Westbrook, Maine 04092  
United States
1-207-556-0300  
1-800-548-6733 
Fax: 1-207-556-4346
Forward-Looking Statements
This Report contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
These statements are based on management’s current expectations or forecasts of future events, are based on current estimates, 
projections, beliefs, and assumptions, and involve risks, uncertainties, and other important factors, which may cause results to differ 
materially from those set forth in the statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “expects,” 
“may,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “would,” “will,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “should,” “project,” and similar words and expressions and 
may include statements regarding goals. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed, and actual results may differ materially 
from those described in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any obligation to, 
publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking 
statements should be evaluated together with the many risks and uncertainties that affect our business and operations, including, 
among other things, those mentioned in the risk factors and cautionary statements in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q, and other reports filed or furnished with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
