That MattersDoing the Work2020
Corporate Responsibility at IDEXX
A Message from Jay Mazelsky 1
About This Report and 3
 Our Corporate Responsibility Journey
About IDEXX 5
What We Do Matters 6
ONE HEALTH, ONE IDEXX / COMPANION ANIMAL GROUP (CAG) /  
WATER / LIVESTOCK, POULTRY, AND DAIRY (LPD) / OPTI MEDICAL SYSTEMS (OPTI) 
Our People and Workplace 23
DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION / EMPLOYEE WELLNESS /  
HEALTH AND SAFETY / PARTNERSHIPS AND VOLUNTEERING /  
OUR BEGINNINGS AND GROWTH IN MAINE / WHAT MATTERS TO US
Environmental Sustainability and Innovation 51
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT / SUPPLY CHAIN AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
Corporate Governance, Leadership and Ethics 63
POLICIES, COMMITMENTS, AND DISCLOSURES
Metrics Summary 72
Addendums 74
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES 
(TCFD) INDEX / SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD 
(SASB) INDEX – MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
TABLE OF CONTENTS ...A Message from Jay Mazelsky
I am proud to share our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report, which 
demonstrates tangible ways IDEXX has advanced initiatives in support of responsible corporate citizenship since our first report in 2018.
As a purpose-driven organization, our nearly 40-year history has 
been dedicated to enhancing the health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock. Our Purpose and Guiding Principles inform every decision and action we take, including our firm belief that we are citizens of the communities in which we do business. 
2020 is my first full year as President and Chief Executive Officer. I am so 
appreciative of how we have come together as a company to address the many challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. At each turn, our employees have shown an unwavering commitment to supporting each other, our customers, and our communities. Highlights from our 2020 report include:
•
 Establishing the IDEXX Foundation, a donor
-advised charitable fund, with 
a contribution of $10 million, to support activities aligned with our P urpose. 
The IDEXX Foundation’s priorities will be on long-term, outcomes-focused 
investments in areas such as supporting education in the veterinary and Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) fields, including advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion in animal healthcare. 
•
 Prioritizing employee health and safety in a dynamic environment, with the introduction of pandemic safety protocols to reduce risk for our employees, their families, and our community.
•
 Partnering with the State of Maine to quadruple the state’s CO
VID-19 
testing capacity with the launch of our OPTI® SARS-CoV-2 RT -PCR test and mobile testing lab. We also partnered with other regulatory agencies globally to supply tests to support pandemic mitigation efforts.
•
 Affirming our commitment to diversity, equity
, and inclusion (DEI) through 
a public statement issued in June in the wake of global demonstrations against racial inequity. We at IDEXX have continued to listen, learn, and make progress to advance diversity and inclusion throughout our company .•
 Incorporating sustainability-focused planning, construction, and renovation at our global facilities, as well as driving innovative approaches to product packaging and insulation.
•
 Advancing efforts to incorporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues into our strategic planning and enterprise management processes.
•
 Launching a new Global Whistleblower Policy that supplements our Code of Ethics and clearly describes how any IDEXX
er can report ethical or other 
concerns under the protection of our strict non-retaliation policy along with updated, innovative training for all our managers.
We have made good progress on several fronts and will continue to prioritize Corporate Responsibility as an important part of our business strategy. Looking forward, we are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen and advancing our efforts and goals in key areas we’ve highlighted throughout this report.
At IDEXX, we are driven by a desire to contribute to something bigger than 
ourselves by making a positive social impact on a global scale. I remain deeply thankful and appreciative of the work our more than 9,000 colleagues across the company perform each day to deliver on our Purpose. 
// JAY MAZELSKY PRESIDENT AND CEO, IDEXX
JAY MAZELSKY   
PRESIDENT AND CEO
 // 1IDEXX Purpose 
To be a great company that 
creates exceptional long-term value for our customers, employees, and shareholders by enhancing the health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock. 
IDEXX Guiding Principles 
•
 Achieve and sustain market 
leadership 
• Exceed the expectations  of our customers 
•
 Empower and reward  our employees 
•
 Innovate with intelligence 
• Cultivate entrepreneurial spirit 
• Contribute to our communities 
 // 2OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY JOURNEY // 3
About This Report and Our 
Corporate Responsibility Journey
Corporate Responsibility is fundamental to how IDEXX 
operates, as a business, employer, supplier, customer, 
and member of the community. We prioritize investments 
that support our Purpose and Guiding Principles, conduct 
ourselves with the highest ethical standards, empower and 
reward our employees, promote a culture that values diversity, 
equity, and inclusion (DEI), and seek to enhance environmental 
sustainability in our facilities and operations. Corporate 
Responsibility activities and environmental, social, and 
governance (ESG) performance benefit all of our stakeholders 
and promote continued, long-term value for our shareholders. 
 // 3How we developed this report
We released our first Corporate 
Responsibility Report in 2018. This document provides an update on IDEXX’s performance and the continued evolution of our reporting, including topics important to employees and other stakeholders. Included are details on how we are advancing our diversity and inclusion strategy and programs, preparing to undertake a third-party carbon footprint assessment, and helping animals and people impacted by extreme climate events. You will also find descriptions of our sustainability-focused facilities, our product stewardship activities, and examples of initiatives led by our entrepreneurial employees. IDEXX is in the process of building a multi-year environmental sustainability strategy with science-based targets for climate adaptation and reducing our environmental footprint. We have worked to strengthen our global ESG data management systems, including resource usage at our facilities. As a result, we have expanded our ability to collect information and report on our ESG performance. The topics covered in this report were determined through engagement with employees, external stakeholders, specialists in ESG reporting, and peer benchmarking. We intend to conduct a materiality assessment in 2021 and engage 
additional stakeholders through that process and as we develop our multi-year environmental sustainability strategy. 
This report includes disclosure 
indexes in line with industry-specific Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  guidelines and in 
accordance with the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  reporting recommendations.
  
The IDEXX Board of Directors is responsible for oversight of our approach to Corporate Responsibility and has reviewed  this report.Selected goals  
for 2021–2022 and preparing for our  next report 
While we have made progress 
on our ongoing Corporate Responsibility journey, we still have more work ahead of us. Throughout this report, you will see an overview of our agenda and selected goals for the next two years, which include: 
•
 Launch a formal enterprise-wide DEI Education Program, including training for senior executives
  
• Undertake a third-party ESG materiality assessment
•
 Undertake a third-party carbon footprint assessment
•
 Further develop disclosure of climate-related risks in line with the recommendations of the T
ask 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
•
 Continue to strengthen ESG data management systems 
•
 Develop a multi-year environmental sustainability strategy with science-based targets 
We look forward to providing an update on our progress in our next Corporate Responsibility Report in 2022. 
Please share your comments, questions, and suggestions for our next report by contacting us at Corporateresponsibility@idexx.com“ Since joining IDEXX
in October 2019, I have been so energized by the 
passion colleagues have for living our Purpose. 
Thank you to IDEXXers around the world for sharing 
your stories and goals in this report.” 
CAROLINE ROSSIGNOL DIRECTOR,  
GLOBAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
ABOUT THIS REPORTOUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY JOURNEY // 4Founded and headquartered in Maine, IDEXX 
Laboratories, Inc. (IDEXX) employs more than 
9,200 employees on five continents and offers 
products to customers in over 175 countries. 
A member of the S&P 500®, IDEXX is a 
leader in pet healthcare innovation, serving 
practicing veterinarians around the world with 
a broad range of diagnostic and information 
technology-based products and services. IDEXX 
products enhance the ability of veterinarians 
to provide advanced medical care, improve 
staff efficiency, and build more economically 
successful practices. IDEXX is also a worldwide 
leader in providing diagnostic tests and 
information for livestock and poultry, tests 
for the quality and safety of water and milk, 
and point-of-care and laboratory diagnostics 
for human medicine. For more information 
about IDEXX, visit www.idexx.com. About 
IDEXX
 // 5The philosophy  of One Health1, that 
animals, humans, and the world we 
live in are interdependent,  is core to 
 
who we are as a company  and is 
 
reflected in all aspects of our business  
and contribution to society. Our people 
bring diverse perspectives to their work, and 
yet each day demonstrate a shared, personal 
connection to improving the standard of 
care for pets and livestock, keeping drinking 
water safe, and reducing our environmental 
footprint. This unifying purpose embodies 
the One Health philosophy and inspired 
our Corporate Responsibility narrative.
ONE HEALTH, ONE IDEXX / 7
COMPANION ANIMAL GROUP (CAG) / 12
WATER / 18
LIVESTOCK, POULTRY, AND DAIRY (LPD) / 20
OPTI MEDICAL SYSTEMS (OPTI) / 22
What We  
Do Matters1 For examples of how One Health is defined by globally respected organizations, please see the 
following links to the United States Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) https://www.cdc.
gov/onehealth/basics/index.html and the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) https://www.avma.org/resources-tools/one-health
 // 6Global cross-functional collaboration 
to aid during a pandemic 
COVID-19 has created unprecedented 
challenges around the world. With a 
commitment to keep pets and people healthy 
and safe, we felt a responsibility to help. During 
the early months of the pandemic, IDEXX 
championed efforts to reinforce the essential 
business classification for veterinary clinics and 
hospitals and ensured the viability of supply 
chains to deliver our most needed products 
and services. Simultaneously, we set to work 
developing new products and services to 
meet the challenges of the global crisis.
One Health, One IDEXX
WHAT WE DO MATTERS // 7In April, we announced the availability of the 
IDEXX SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) RealPCR™ test for pets. In a time of many unknowns and concerns about animal welfare, IDEXX worked with leading experts and organizations such as American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA), World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) and the United States Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) COVID-19 One Health Working Group to amplify aligned messaging on COVID-19 risks, management, and testing guidelines. Bringing global insights and evidence-based data to the conversation helped the veterinary community confidently manage the concerns of their teams, clients, and patients. 
IDEXX leveraged its global innovation engine 
to make an impact in human health as well. We drew on technology, regulatory, and manufacturing expertise from our livestock and OPTI
® lines of business to rapidly 
develop the OPTI® SARS-CoV-2  
RT -PCR® test to fill the urgent need for more human diagnostics early in the pandemic. From Ireland to Maine to Indonesia, the IDEXX test is helping authorities contain the spread of the pandemic. In some regions, IDEXX helped convert livestock laboratories into COVID-19 testing centers. IDEXX’s Water team developed an application for detecting SARS-CoV-2 virus in untreated wastewater, creating an important epidemiological tool for public health officials to determine the spread of the pandemic.
Ongoing support for our employees 
includes the U.S. rollout of the Pandemic Paid Time Off Policy and the creation of global COVID-19 employee safety manuals translated in 23 languages. We also created visual health and safety resources for all facilities.
For more information, please see Employee 
Well-Being  and Health and Safety .
“Our global leadership
provided veterinarians and health authority 
experts with valuable information at a critical 
point of the pandemic. I’m proud to be a part of 
a company making such a difference.” 
JAMES BLACKA SENIOR DIRECTOR,  
COMMERCIAL LEARNING, CAG
WHAT WE DO MATTERS ONE HEALTH, ONE IDEXX // 8“As the largest diagnostic technology company based in Maine, IDEXX was in a unique position  
to assist with the state’s COVID-19 testing. When we were granted FDA Emergency Use Authorization in early 
May for the OPTI® SARS-CoV-2 RT -PCR, IDEXX provided tests to the Maine Center for Disease Control (CDC). 
“This changes everything,”  said Maine Governor Janet Mills in a  public announcement 
on May 7.  “Acquiring this testing capacity is a major breakthrough for all the people of 
Maine … on behalf of this Administration and on behalf of all the people of Maine, I thank 
IDEXX for their ingenuity, generosity, and partnership. Acts like this demonstrate to us the 
heart of Maine’s extraordinary companies and the power of public-private collaboration.” 
A cross-functional IDEXX team expeditiously designed, constructed, equipped, and staffed a mobile 
PCR laboratory for COVID-19 testing which operates under the auspices of the Maine CDC’s Health and 
Environmental Testing Laboratory (HETL). This partnership has quadrupled testing capacity in the state ahead  
of the flu season. Maine municipalities are also using IDEXX’s test to screen for CO VID-19 in wastewater. IDEXX’s response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic has 
been to swiftly deploy our 
many capabilities across 
all global businesses and 
functions. We moved quickly 
from surviving to thriving and
 fulfilling our Purpose.” 
OLIVIER TE BOEKHORST  
CORPORATE VICE PRESIDENT, 
WATER, LPD, AND OPTI 
WHAT WE DO MATTERSONE HEALTH, ONE IDEXX // 9#VeterinaryHeroes 
The COVID-19 pandemic saw 
veterinary professionals around the 
world navigating uncharted waters. 
As frontline workers they rose to the 
challenge, continuing to provide care 
for animals while protecting their teams 
and developing new ways of working. 
IDEXX created the #VeterinaryHeroes 
campaign to show our gratitude and 
increase the recognition of veterinary 
professionals on social media.
Helping feed families 
near our World Campus 
Since early April, IDEXX Dining Services has 
partnered with My Place Teen Center  (MPTC) 
to provide 150 meals per day to families 
most in need during the COVID-19 crisis. As 
of September 1, the IDEXX team contributed 
252 hours to create 4,488 meals for local 
Maine families facing food insecurity. 
WHAT WE DO MATTERSONE HEALTH, ONE IDEXX // 10“The accomplishments of 
the Banfield Foundation 
across the country would 
not be possible without 
generous support from 
partners like IDEXX—
not only are they in the 
business of enabling 
critical veterinary care, 
they are in the business 
of providing hope. And 
through collective efforts 
in response to COVID-19 
like #SpayTogether and 
the One Health Clinic 
with Michigan Humane 
Society, we’ve been able 
to provide both.” 
KIM VAN SYOC  
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 
BANFIELD FOUNDATION
IDEXX teamed up with over 25 
national organizations, including the Banfield Foundation, to launch #SpayTogether, a stimulus fund to help animal shelters and veterinary clinics perform more than 50,000 spay/neuter surgeries and preventive care testing in the wake of COVID-19. 
In collaboration with the Banfield 
Foundation, IDEXX partnered with the Michigan One Health initiative to provide healthcare services for pets whose owners were deeply affected by the economic impact  of COVID-19. 
“IDEXX has helped
so many animals. What an incredible 
gift to be a part of this work!” 
MANDY DAVIS MARKETING BUSINESS PARTNER, 
GLOBAL CUSTOMER AND MARKET INSIGHTS, CAG
WHAT WE DO MATTERS ONE HEALTH, ONE IDEXX // 11Helping patients live their longest, 
healthiest lives has been a consistent driving force in my  23 years at IDEXX.” 
CASEY ETTER DIRECTOR, GLOBAL CUSTOMER 
EDUCATION, CAG “The human-animal bond plays a valuable and proven 
role in the health and well-being of people and families. 
Our veterinary  customers  are the clinical heroes who 
 
work every day to preserve this bond by  enabling   
the long, healthy
, and happy lives  of their patients. 
Our global  CAG  organization  provides  personalized   
support, guidance, and expertise to  veterinary 
 
practices through innovation, leadership, and keeping  our 
 
customers’ mission and purpose at the heart of what we do.  
IDEXX  partners  with our customers to advance 
veterinary standards of care around the world. Our in-
house and reference laboratory diagnostics, coupled 
with highly integrated practice management software, 
help veterinarians provide accurate and reliable 
information to clients and support practice growth. Companion Animal Group  
(CAG) 
WHAT WE DO MATTERS // 12IDEXX Preventive Care®—Everything 
you need to implement diagnostics 
for a lifetime of healthy relationships     
Routine preventive care testing has distinct medical 
benefits. Our menu of differentiated tests uncovers underlying disease in seemingly healthy pets. Results of ongoing bloodwork and fecal testing enable veterinarians to detect diseases and conditions, leading to earlier interventions that help patients of all ages live healthy lives for as long as possible. Once a veterinarian has baseline values, she/he/they can monitor trends and, if necessary, create individualized treatment plans. If no abnormality is detected, veterinarians and staff can—and should—celebrate the good news with clients. By communicating the value of every test result, veterinary practices reinforce the importance of routine wellness checks and the central role that clients play in the health of their pet.
  
For more information on IDEXX Preventive Care,® please see   
https://www.idexx.com/en/veterinary/preventive-care
of pet owners 
reported that their pet brings them joy85%of pet owners agree that their pet has  a positive impact  on their life
  96%said their pet comforts them82%said their pet enhances their mental health
  73%
1 https://habri.org/research/healthy-aging/mental-health/ACCORDING TO A NATIONWIDE SURVEY  CONDUCTED BY THE  HUMAN ANIMAL BOND RESEARCH INSTITUTE (HABRI)1“IDEXX understands and supports the deep connection between 
people and animals. Their leadership in strengthening the human-
animal bond is inspiring. As people come to understand how good 
their pets are for them, they, in turn, take better care of their pets.” 
STEVEN FELDMAN CEO,   
HUMAN ANIMAL BOND RESEARCH INSTITUTE (HABRI)
WHAT WE DO MATTERSCOMPANION ANIMAL GROUP // 13SNAP® test: an 
integral tool in 
disaster relief 
With IDEXX’s proprietary 
SNAP® tests, veterinarians 
have a rapid, single-
use, in-clinic diagnostic 
aid to quickly detect 
both infectious and 
non-infectious disease. 
In times of natural 
disaster, we are proud to support local 
animal shelters and practices as they 
address animal needs. IDEXX SNAP® 
donations help veterinarians quickly 
and accurately identify animals in need 
of critical medical help, allowing relief 
workers to treat infected animals and 
safely segregate them from the healthy 
population. This reliable testing also 
allows shelters to take in animals 
displaced in a disaster so they can 
be reunited with their families. Over 
the years, IDEXX, in partnership 
with international animal welfare 
organizations, has donated tens of 
thousands of SNAP® tests to a range 
of relief efforts, from Hurricane Katrina 
and Indonesian floods to Hurricane 
Florence and the California wildfires. 
In the wake of the April 2020 
tornado in East Texas, I worked 
as part of the Texas A&M 
Veterinary Emergency Team 
(VET). It’s very rewarding to 
help these animals and people.
Our efforts make  
a big difference.”
WADE BURTON DVM  
MEDICAL AFFAIRS SPECIALIST, 
INFECTIOUS DISEASES, CAG
“
WHAT WE DO MATTERSCOMPANION ANIMAL GROUP // 14Leading the way in radiation safety 
Veterinary technicians, 75% of who are women 
of child-bearing age, administer 16 x-ray studies 
per week on average1, and radiation exposure is 
a concern. To increase awareness and educate 
about safety protocols, in 2016 IDEXX launched 
Lower the Dose in partnership with the American 
College of Veterinary Radiology and National 
Association of Veterinary Technicians in America. 
Building upon the work of Lower the Dose, we 
created the IDEXX Radiation Safety Center in 
January 2020. Imaging equipment technology 
also plays a significant role in radiation safety. Our portfolio of low-dose digital radiography 
systems is led by IDEXX’s proprietary ImageVue® 
DR50 Digital Imaging System, the lowest-dose 
radiography system in the market today2, offering 
up to 50% less radiation compared to computed 
radiography systems while achieving optimal 
image quality. Recognizing the importance of 
affordability, in August 2020, IDEXX launched 
the ImageVue® DR30 Digital Imaging System, 
which delivers low dose imaging at a price 
point that is accessible to more customers 
while still delivering superior image quality. 
1 NAVTA 2016 Demographic Survey Results. Schaumburg, IL: National Association of Veterinary Technicians in America; 2016.  
https://cdn.ymaws.com/www.navta.net/resource/resmgr/docs/2016_demographic_results.pdf. Accessed January 6, 2020.
Data on file at IDEXX Laboratories Inc. Westbrook, Maine USA. Hemispheres May 2019 IDEXX Diagnostic Imaging Market Survey
2 Innovations in Digital Radiography and Dose Reduction. Stamford, CT: Fujifilm Medical Systems U.S.A., Inc.; 2015.
TELEHEALTH FEATURES HELP 
VETERINARY PRACTICES MAINTAIN 
CONTINUITY OF CARE 
Amid the pandemic, IDEXX Veterinary Software 
& Services (VSS) worked rapidly to support 
veterinary professionals as they adapted to the 
new reality of social distancing with pet owners. 
Our practice management platforms initiated new 
partnerships and integrations, providing IDEXX 
software customers with a broad set of telehealth 
offerings that enable virtual services for patients 
and a continuity of care during a challenging time.
“We continue to raise  
the standard of care
by delivering education on the importance 
of radiation safety and providing tools and 
resources to support practices.” 
LAURIE FISHER SENIOR DIRECTOR AND GENERAL 
MANAGER, DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING, CAG 
WHAT WE DO MATTERSCOMPANION ANIMAL GROUP // 15Helping customers reduce 
their environmental footprint 
IDEXX focuses on helping our customers create 
“paperless practices”—reducing paper waste, 
improving operational efficiency, reducing lost 
charges, and enabling a higher standard of care. 
Our SmartFlow® patient workflow software offers 
simple tools that optimize every step of the patient 
visit. By supporting seamless communication, 
automating charge capture, and streamlining patient 
documentation. SmartFlow® helps practices achieve 
their sustainability goals by enabling them to go 
paperless with the use of digitized consent forms, 
patient charts, treatment sheets, and anesthetic sheets. 
 
Supporting the growth 
of new practices 
IDEXX is committed to the health of our customers’ 
patients and practices. New veterinary practices, 
in particular, have many competing priorities 
and expenses. The IDEXX 360® New Practice 
Program helps by eliminating capital costs for 
IDEXX analyzers, digital imaging, and practice 
management software. Customers benefit from no 
upfront costs or lease requirements, and an easy-
to-meet, step-up commitment that grows as their 
client base does. With IDEXX’s support, start-ups 
can practice medicine the way they want to, with 
the highest-quality, most accurate, and innovative 
diagnostic tools in the industry. To date, more than 
300 new practices have joined this program.FLORA ELLIS, A MARKETING MANAGER in 
Southwold, United Kingdom, has gone above and beyond to advance sustainable practices for IDEXX’s participation in trade shows, such as leveraging interactive technology to reduce the need for paper and eliminating all single-use plastics in displays. IDEXX partnered with Bumble Bee Conservation Trust to provide customer giveaways consisting of recycled biodegradable bags printed with non-toxic ink containing wildflower seeds and reusable bamboo coffee cups. These initiatives reduce our impact, showcasing IDEXX’s values to our customers.
WHAT WE DO MATTERSCOMPANION ANIMAL GROUP // 16Providing access to diagnostic services for underserved 
communities in partnership with veterinary students 
The IDEXX VetLab® University Educational Program donates a full suite of IDEXX in-house diagnostic 
(IHD) analyzers for veterinary students to use during their primary care rotations at a growing number 
of North American universities. Through this program, students gain practical experience with in-house diagnostics and universities gain resources to serve their local communities. 
IDEXX helps subsidize in-clinic diagnostic services for pet owners facing economic challenges and donates 
SNAP
® tests when students volunteer at free and low-cost community care  and screening events.
24
university programs 
reachedWE ARE PROUD TO PARTNER WITH THE FOLLOWING PROGRAMS THAT BENEFIT THE 
HEALTH AND WELL-BEING OF PETS AND PEOPLE IN UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES
Wisconsin Companion Animal 
Resources, Education, and Social Services (WisCARES) is a community clinic for low income and homeless families. This clinic provides veterinary care, temporary pet boarding for pet parents unable to find housing, social services for family members, and supplies to help these individuals and families maintain and benefit from the human-animal bond. Tufts at Tech Community Veterinary Clinic  This student-run veterinary 
clinic provides citizens of underserved communities from Greater Worcester in Massachusetts with compassionate and affordable veterinary care.Auburn Shelter Medicine Rotation  The mission of the 
Hoerlein Spay/Neuter Program is to provide high-quality reproductive surgical services and preventive care to dogs and cats from partnering animal shelters, while providing training to veterinary students in Alabama. 
IN PARTNERSHIP WITH IN PARTNERSHIP WITH IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
WHAT WE DO MATTERSCOMPANION ANIMAL GROUP // 17More than 2.5 billion people worldwide rely on IDEXX 
testing to ensure the safety of their drinking water. Used by 
municipalities and water safety organizations on all seven 
continents and even the International Space Station, our 
products detect bacterial indicators of fecal contamination, 
as well as common microbial pathogens, such as Legionella 
pneumophila  and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In 2020, we were 
proud to announce the W
ater SARS-CoV-2 RT -PCR® Test, which 
detects and quantifies SARS-CoV-2 in wastewater systems. Water
Clean, safe drinking water is something no person 
should have to worry about. We partner with community 
organizations around the globe to help make water 
safety a reality. We can all take pride in this work.” 
EMILY FRAWLEY PRODUCT MANAGER, WATER “
WHAT WE DO MATTERS // 18IDEXX Water Humanitarian Award   
More than 70,000 citizens of Lower Nyakach, Kenya, do not 
have access to safe drinking water sources and must use 
heavily contaminated rivers, streams, ponds, and shallow wells 
to access drinking water. IDEXX’s long-time collaborator, Dr. 
Robert Metcalf, has pioneered a technological breakthrough 
in water testing methods by creating a Portable Microbiology 
Laboratory that includes IDEXX Colilert® tests. Since 2012, 
Friends of the Old (FOTO), a community-based organization 
supported by Dr. Metcalf and the International Water and 
Health Alliance, has implemented a local strategy called 
‘The Goal is Zero’ to eliminate waterborne disease using 
community-led, evidence-based microbiology. FOTO uses 
IDEXX Colilert® testing to educate communities about the 
relationship between contaminated water and disease. 
Enhanced water-quality monitoring also positively affects 
women’s empowerment in the communities of the Lower 
Nyakach. 
Since FOTO’s implementation of this “teach, test, treat” 
strategy, the prevalence of community members suffering 
from waterborne disease has dropped dramatically. In 
recent years, there have been several serious cholera 
outbreaks in adjacent districts but no cholera cases in 
Lower Nyakach.
Pamela Otieno ‘Lower Nyakach 
microbiology ambassador’ 
In recognition for his innovation and 
impactful work in Kenya, Dr. Robert 
Metcalf was presented with the IDEXX 
Water Humanitarian Award in 2018. 
Pictured here with Darren Alcock, IDEXX 
Global Director of Marketing, Water. 
SWIM DRINK FISH, a Canadian 
organization, uses the IDEXX Quanti-Tray
® System for recreational water quality 
monitoring and testing for E. coli. Swim Drink 
Fish has established citizen science water quality monitoring hubs that share water quality test results through Swim Guide, a free app and website. Monitoring hubs are operating in several remote First Nations communities throughout Canada, including the Zhiibaahaasing First Nation Hub located on Manitoulin Island. IDEXX is proud to be involved with Swim Drink Fish projects which are contributing to public health across Canada.
“ Women involved in the FOTO project 
have become microbiology teachers and this has 
raised their esteem in their communities—they are 
the microbiology ambassadors in Lower Nyakach.”
DR. ROBERT METCALF 
WHAT WE DO MATTERSWATER // 19Livestock, Poultry and Dairy  
(LPD) 
IDEXX LPD tests have been used worldwideSince
more than1985
1.5 billion
“Healthy animals need fewer antibiotics 
and produce less waste, reducing 
environmental impacts and contributing to 
sustainable livestock production systems.” 
CHRISTOPH EGLI ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR, PRODUCT MARKETING, LPD  
WHAT WE DO MATTERS // 20Many livestock diseases can be controlled 
or eradicated using protocols supported by IDEXX testing products , including Foot and 
Mouth disease (FMD), a highly contagious virus that can spread rapidly among cattle, sheep, goat, pig, and wildlife populations. The IDEXX FMD
® Multispecies Antibody Test helps farmers, 
veterinarians, and governments manage the threat of this highly contagious disease. 
IDEXX is also revolutionizing cattle reproductive 
practices in Switzerland, where more than 
45% percent of dairy herds are using IDEXX 
tests to accurately determine the pregnancy 
status of cows. IDEXX’s tests use the most 
advanced technology to help farmers get 
timely information that allows them to improve 
the reproductive health of dairy herds. 
Around the world, our portfolio of tests for 
poultry, swine, and ruminant species play a 
role in ensuring food security for a growing 
global population while reducing the impact 
on the environment from protein production 
by keeping livestock healthy and productive. 
 
“I’m proud that  
IDEXX tests 
are improving the 
livelihoods of farmers 
worldwide by helping 
manage devastating 
livestock diseases.” 
FRANK WINSLOW SENIOR 
DIRECTOR, OPERATIONS AND  
PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, LPD 
WHAT WE DO MATTERSLIVESTOCK, POULTRY AND DAIRY // 21“
OPTI specializes in the design and manufacturing 
of point-of-care and laboratory diagnostics 
for human medicine. We leverage advanced 
technologies to develop reliable, cost-effective, 
easy-to-use products that combine accuracy 
with convenience and clinical flexibility to support 
blood gas and electrolyte analysis using optical 
fluorescence technology as well as infectious 
disease diagnostics. OPTI analyzers are used in 
emergency rooms and intensive care units in more 
than 100 countries to aid in critical care diagnoses. 
For example, the OPTI CCA-TS2® analyzer provides 
fast and accurate blood gas and lactate analysis 
results to assist in the early detection of sepsis1, 
a life-threatening issue in hospital settings. In 
2020, we launched the OPTI® SARS-CoV-2 RT -
PCR® laboratory test kit for the detection of SARS-
CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, to support 
testing during this unprecedented pandemic.OPTI Medical Systems
The best part about my job is the pride I feel 
knowing our products provide time-sensitive diagnostic results to help save human lives.” 
ANGELA WILMOT PRODUCT MANAGER, OPTI 1 https://www.cdc.gov/sepsis/what-is-sepsis.html
WHAT WE DO MATTERS // 22“ When my husband
and I moved to Maine 10 years 
ago, more than anything I wanted 
to work for a company with a strong 
purpose, where my contributions 
matter, where people care for one 
another, and I can be my authentic 
self. I found that home in  IDEXX.”
GIO TWIGGE  
CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER
Our People  
and WorkplaceDIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION / 26
 EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING / 35
HEALTH AND SAFETY / 39
PARTNERSHIPS AND VOLUNTEERING / 42
OUR BEGINNINGS AND GROWTH IN MAINE /46
WHAT MATTERS TO US / 49
 // 23“ IDEXX’s innovative culture 
is very meaningful to me. Our culture embodies 
our entrepreneurial spirit and shows up in 
many impactful ways for our employees, our 
customers, and our communities.”   
ZACH NELSON VICE PRESIDENT,  
HUMAN RESOURCES   
Our people are key to our company’s success in an industry 
where innovation is paramount. Competition for experienced leaders and talent, particularly for those with specialized skills and capabilities, can be intense. Our ability to recruit and retain talent relies on a number of factors, including a passion for our Purpose, our culture, opportunities for growth, compensation and benefits, and work location. 
We are focused on creating a workplace 
where employees feel engaged, supported in their development, comfortable to be their authentic selves, and provided with deeper meaning and fulfillment in their work. 
CULTURE
IDEXX’s culture is reflected in the passion our employees have for 
our Purpose, our focus on driving innovation as demonstrated in 
our pipeline of products and services, fostering employee well-
being and safety, advancing diversity and inclusion, progressing 
environmental sustainability across the enterprise, and investing 
in facilities that enhance the employee experience. 
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACE // 24Engagement
Over the last nine years, IDEXX has conducted an annual company-wide 
myVOICE survey to give IDEXXers an opportunity to directly provide input on our culture, their experiences, and workplace conditions. This collective input helps develop meaningful and actionable insights and enables us to improve the employee experience. 
In response to the global pandemic, IDEXX shifted the 2020 myVOICE 
survey to understand employees’ experiences navigating the complexities of COVID-19, know what we are doing right, and guide us moving forward.
Across the globe 6,671 (71%) employees responded to the survey 
and the
 general sentiment was that IDEXX responded well to the 
pandemic.  83% of our employees feel fully engaged in their work 
 
at IDEXX, a 1% increase from 2019.   
A key finding that emerged from the survey was the different needs of those employees who remained working on-site and those who work
 remotely
. F
eedback from our employees has enabled us 
to better understand what each group requires and respond by 
providing  additional tools, resources, and flexibility—for both on-site 
 
and remote employees. 
EMPLOYEE SURVEY RESULTS
Employees 
who feel fully engaged in their work at IDEXX
   Employees who indicated they are proud to work at IDEXX
   Employees who would recommend IDEXX as 
 
a great place to work  to a friend
  
  82%
83% 
 88%86% 
80% 83% Annual 2019 employee  myVOICE  results; 82% response rate   
2020 ‘pulse in the moment’ survey results; 71% response rate   
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACE // 25At IDEXX, our employees enable us to achieve our Purpose. 
Through DEI efforts, we ensure our global workplaces are 
dynamic, supportive of all our employees, and representative 
of our customers and communities. We believe that DEI 
is an essential driver of our innovation and success. Our 
entrepreneurial and collaborative spirit is enhanced when 
many different people, perspectives, and backgrounds 
are aligned toward achieving IDEXX’s Purpose. Diversity, Equity, and InclusionOUR COMMITMENT TO DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
“We continue to see troubling events unfold, in the U.S. and globally, 
highlighting long-standing societal inequities and disparities. At 
IDEXX, we condemn racism and intolerance in all its forms, and are 
particularly focused on, and troubled by, how it affects the Black 
community. I believe it is important to reaffirm that IDEXX values 
all our employees, as well as their families and loved ones. Our 
commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and opportunities for all 
is core to who we are and what we stand for as an organization. 
We have more work to do as a company, and as a society, to 
ensure there is action behind the commitments we make.”
// JAY MAZELSKY PRESIDENT AND CEO
We will cultivate and support a 
culture of inclusion—where our innovative spirit is enhanced by our diversity.” 
CHANEL LEWIS SENIOR MANAGER,  
DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION“
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACE // 26Charting the course towards greater diversity, equity, and inclusion
We are passionate and committed to cultivating and supporting a culture 
where DEI is part of our DNA. We strive to equip our organization with tools to 
mitigate bias and bolster trust throughout the organization, attract talent that 
will add to our culture, and create an environment where employees can be 
their full and genuine selves at work. Through the efforts of our Diversity and 
Inclusion Council, which was established in 2017, and with the support of 
executive leadership, IDEXX created a global DEI leadership role in 2019. 
With engagement from management teams across the organization, and under the stewardship of our 
newly hired global DEI leader, we have developed and are now implementing a global DEI strategy 
and roadmap. This guides us in how we cultivate a more diverse workforce, support inclusive talent 
acquisition, and develop our diverse and talented employees. Some significant pillars of this strategy and roadmap include continuing to increase the percentage of women in senior leadership positions and launching an enterprise-wide Diversity and Inclusion Education Program, including training for 
senior executives, leaders, and managers. 
Additionally, our Board has sustained its focus on refreshment and diversity, ensuring that our 
Directors possess a wide variety of relevant skills, backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives 
to enable them to effectively oversee our innovative businesses in rapidly evolving markets. We 
have added eight new independent members in the past nine years, and we are proud that:
DIVERSITY IN OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS
are 
women 36%were born and raised outside the U.S.27%
are diverse in terms of race and/or ethnicity18%have a disability9%
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEDIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION // 27IDEXX is committed to creating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace. 
The data below outline the racial and ethnic diversity1 and gender diversity2 
among our workforce and leadership, as of October 30, 2020.
1 Data regarding racial and ethnic representation are based on self -identification by our U.S. employees only; racial and ethnic diversity is defined as African American/Black, Asian, Hispanic/Latinx, Native 
Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and two or more races, and percentages do not add up to 100% because some U.S. employees declined to specify. 
2 Data regarding gender are based on self-identification by our global employees and use the traditional gender category of women (or female) to align with U.S. government reporting requirements. IDEXX deeply respects that gender is nonbinary, and reporting in this manner does not represent our position on this issue.3 Other: American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/other Pacific Islander, and two or more races.4 Employees with the title of Director and above.5 Employees with the title of Corporate Vice President or Executive Vice President.Selected 
accomplishments over the last two years
• Continued to expand the mission of our Global Diversity and Inclusion Council, established in 2017, which worked with executive leadership on the full-time hire of a DEI leader to design, develop, and champion DEI at the enterprise level. 
•
 Formalized a DEI strategy and roadmap, including continuing to increase the percentage of women in senior leadership positions, expanding DEI education enterprise-wide, and strengthening DEI practices in our human capital management processes. 
•
 As part of our DEI education goals, our executive team participated in Inclusive Leadership Training.
6%
Asian8%
Black1%
Other376% 
White5%
Hispanic/ 
LatinxRACIAL AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY  
IN OUR U.S. WORKFORCE1
RACIAL AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY1 IN OUR 
LEADERSHIP
of U.S. Senior 
Leaders4 of Global Senior 
Executives5of Global Senior 
Leaders4of Global Senior 
Executives528% 26%
6%GENDER DIVERSITY IN OUR  
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
57%
overall
are women2
are diverse 
in terms of 
race and/or 
ethnicity11%
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEDIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION // 28IDEXX is the only place I have ever 
worked where I felt total congruence 
between what I care about as a 
human, what I do in my work, and 
what the organization represents to 
the world. I have never had that line 
up so beautifully before.” 
SAMANTHA JONES  
DIRECTOR, TALENT DEVELOPMENT“Pay equity
Our senior leadership and Board of Directors fully support inclusion, diversity , and pay equity 
and are committed to advancing these initiatives. IDEXX has numerous processes and practices 
in place globally that are designed to promote fair and consistent compensation and that are administered in a manner to support pay equity. Please see a summary of our global pay 
processes and practices . Our global pay processes and practices are intended to prevent 
identified, unexplained pay disparities based on gender for our global employees and race for our U.S. employees, and we are confident that they are effective in doing so.  
At IDEXX, we empower our employees to 
create connection and community. Through employee-led communities, IDEXXers all over the world contribute to fostering a culture of inclusion and belonging.
An example of our Employee-Led  
Communities is IDEXX TogetHer. IDEXX TogetHer is a community dedicated to championing the advancement of women and female-identifying individuals in the workplace and beyond. Through programming, this community creates spaces for the sharing  of stories, experiences, and perspectives.
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEDIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION // 29Diverse leaders of tomorrow
We are steadfast in our focus on cultivating the diverse leaders of tomorrow 
and making career development opportunities more accessible across the 
global organization. Diverse talent is the foundation of a healthy and strong 
business. Our global recruiting team connected our sourcing strategies with 
diversified talent channels and adopted new core competencies that focus 
on valuing differences, to attract candidates with different backgrounds, 
ideas, and experiences who will help enrich the culture at IDEXX. 
Accessibility is key to creating an environment that is inclusive, where all employees 
feel empowered and supported to learn and develop in their careers. The Talent 
Development team is identifying barriers, gaps, and obstacles that make it difficult 
for some employees to access learning and development opportunities. Over the 
next few years, plans will be developed and implemented to address these barriers. 
For example, we recognize that employees for whom English is a second language 
or who do not have regular access to email need to be reached, served, and 
supported differently. A project is under way to form a deeper understanding of 
those communication needs and address them accordingly. We also implemented 
a new selection process for IDEXX’s highest level leadership program to 
ensure there is diversity of function, geography, race, ethnicity, and gender. “I have had opportunities to grow at IDEXX and expand 
my responsibilities such as working on product  
support engineering.  Our leaders care about  
developing their teams.” 
LOU SENERES INSTRUMENT  
TECHNICIAN, MANUFACTURING
We created the HEART (Hourly 
Employee Advocacy, Recruitment, and 
Training) team in 2020 to cultivate a 
talent pipeline from Operations’ hourly 
workforce into other areas of the 
organization based on the interests and 
experience of the employee. HEART’s 
goals include identifying and removing 
barriers to career advancement 
opportunities by providing access 
to the IDEXX career development 
network. The HEART team is working 
hard to better define the program for 
Operations, with the hope of a more 
formalized and accessible program 
rolling out to all U.S. employees in 2021.
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEDIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION // 30Talent acquisition
Hiring the right leaders directly contributes to the future culture and success 
of IDEXX. As part of the interview process, recruiters and key external partners are leveraging leader competency-based interviews (called success profiles) to specifically assess potential curiosity and the candidate’s value for differing opinions and ideas. Our talent acquisition team is also partnering with key STEM talent organizations to help improve gender, racial, and ethnic diversity within the technology sector. This includes successful partnerships with Hacker413 and the Grace Hopper Celebration organizations, both focused on women in the technology sector. In addition, IDEXX sponsored and participated in a Stanford University co-piloted initiative in 2019 to form a DEI council within the American College of Veterinary Pathologists.
In March 2020, IDEXX created the Talent Acquisition Diversity and Inclusion 
Committee (TADIC)—a group of talent acquisition specialists, formed to identify and address challenges related to sourcing, recruiting, and hiring diverse talent; determine best practices; and define measures of success. TADIC will serve as a driver behind Diversity and Inclusion projects and initiatives related to talent acquisition. Over the next two years, we plan to evolve our talent channels and outreach activities for both our entry-level and experienced talent, specifically by:
•
 Developing two new entry-level programs:
Intern program evolution:  Entry-level talent in this 
new part
-virtual environment will provide opportunities 
for a much more diverse intern program.
Apprenticeship program: Allows us to consider more diverse 
talent, including candidates without a bachelors degree 
and experienced people new to the United States.
• Optimizing the hybrid workforce: In a new part
-virtual 
world, we will be sourcing and attracting diverse talent across any location regardless of geography.
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEDIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION // 31Talent development
The Learning and Talent team works across the business to 
support employees as they develop their careers at IDEXX. 
Our efforts to provide all employees with the tools and 
resources that enable them to advance their careers requires a multi-faceted and inclusive approach. 
We are proud to support employees who are continuing their 
education by providing tuition assistance. IDEXX encourages its employees to enhance their career development through job-related courses and degree programs. 
Employees have access to a wide variety of internal learning 
and development opportunities which are focused on their professional development and future aspirations. Some recent examples include: 
•
 Training that is 100% virtual and 
available in multiple languages. 
• Development programs that build capability and enable career progression, such as: 
Leadership Ascend: A new addition to our 
Leadership Development Programs, focused on building mid-level leader competencies. 
Education First: English Language Development 
solutions, for employees who need to develop business English capability
. 
Leadership Basecamp: A collection of open enrollment 
courses offered to all leaders and aspiring leaders to help IDEXXers navigate challenging and dynamic times. 
We feel a tremendous 
responsibility for all  employees across our organization and we understand the importance of including and engaging them. One of the key drivers of innovation is bringing a diversity of 
thought to our work.” 
TONY DIMARCO VICE PRESIDENT, 
REAGENT OPERATIONS
“
29,687
1742019 training hours
online development courses 
offered to IDEXXers
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEDIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION // 32Aspiritech  is a quality assurance testing 
company that empowers individuals on 
the autism spectrum to fulfill their  potential through meaningful employment 
that leverages their unique skills for problem-solving. IDEXX R&D Customer Facing Software has partnered with Aspiritech since 2016 and welcomed individuals into careers at IDEXX where they have a natural skill set and opportunity to excel. The Aspiritech teams bring a new perspective to our work and have been part of the development and testing process for two recent instrument launches—SediVue Dx
® and ProCyte One.®We are committed to providing increased access to development and career advancement 
opportunities—specifically for women and underserved populations—in STEM, animal health and technology. IDEXX is proud to partner with these exemplary organizations.
Meet some of our DEI and workforce development partners
IDEXX is a founding partner of the United 
Way of Greater Portland (UWGP) Racial 
Equity Fund. The Racial Equity Fund will support organizations led by or serving people of color to increase access to health care, high-quality education, affordable housing, and workforce preparation for jobs that can provide access to opportunities for economic mobility.IDEXX is a Visionary Sponsor for the Olympia Snowe Women’s Leadership Institute founded by former U.S. Senator from Maine, Olympia Snowe. The institute invests in young women to ensure that there will be more leaders like Senator Snowe in the future—young women who have been encouraged, supported, and inspired to dream big and reach high in all of life’s endeavors.IDEXX is a founding corporate partner in the Roux Institute at Northeastern University—a graduate and research center focused on artificial intelligence and life sciences founded in Portland, Maine, in February 2020. IDEXX’s partnership with the Roux Institute will help advance our ongoing talent development efforts with particular focus on upskilling our current workforce, increasing diversity in our technology pipeline, and supporting career advancement programs for foreign-trained professionals.
Part of what makes IDEXX 
special is our belief that each individual can bring insight to a team. With Aspiritech, we see that 
unfold again and again.” 
CHRISTIAN RATLIFF   
SENIOR DIRECTOR, CUSTOMER 
FACING SOFTWARE“The Maine Math and Science Alliance works with K-12 educators to get students excited about STEM. The organization undertakes research on STEM learning experiences and provides teachers with professional development opportunities.
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEDIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION // 33Educate Maine helps build the future workforce of Maine. One 
of its programs, Project>Login, focuses on bringing high-
quality computer science education to every student in Maine 
and reaching balanced representation in grades K-12. As the 
regional partner for  Girls Who Code, the program implements 
a range of strategies that prioritize access to and engagement 
in computer science for historically underrepresented groups. 
Project>Login also provides support for college students to access 
internships and learn about various STEM career pathways.
Maine Development Foundation hosted its 42nd Annual 
Meeting in September 2020. The theme this year is “2020 
Vision: Leading for Change in Maine’s Third Century.” Chanel 
Lewis, Senior Manager, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at 
IDEXX, shared her vision for how Maine can be a leader and 
model of diversity, inclusion and equity, and challenged 
attendees to personally and professionally engage in this work.
Selected goals for  
2021–2022 
• Shape, activate, and integrate DEI 
into global business practices
• Build inclusive capability and competency and reduce bias in talent processes
•
 Continue to partner with organizations aimed at advancing diversity in our communities, as well as in animal health, veterinary medicine, and STEM, including The Roux Institute at Northeastern University
•
 Expand our DEI communications across the organization and externally to increase awareness of our commitment and efforts
“I have served on the Board of Directors of Educate Maine  
for several years, and was elected Chair in 2019. The mission 
and purpose of the organization—to create pathways for all 
Mainers to reach their greatest educational and economic 
potential as a part of a thriving and competitive  
economy—is so wholly aligned with IDEXX values of 
growth, community, and inclusion.”
KEN GRADY CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEDIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION // 34“Employee Well-Being
The programs, benefits, and culture that we create 
at IDEXX have a direct and significant impact on 
the quality of life of our employees. This influences 
how they interact with their colleagues, families, 
and communities. I love that I have the privilege of 
leading this work. There’s nothing more rewarding 
than seeing people enjoy the gains that come from 
improving their own health and well-being.” 
SARAH CARON WELL-BEING PROGRAM MANAGER
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACE // 35Selected 
accomplishments over the last two years
• Enhanced paid family care leave to provide U.S.-based employees paid time off for 6 weeks for new parents, 4 weeks for family care, and 2 weeks for bereavement of an immediate family member
. 
• U.S. 
rollout of Pandemic Paid Time 
Off Policy to address additional time off needs for team members working at an IDEXX facility or in the field who are not able to work, or are in transition to remote work due to COVID-19 symptoms or illness, facility closure, or self-quarantine. 
•
 Successful pilot of the Make It OK campaign for U.S.-based employees to reduce the stigma around mental illness. 
•
 Partnership with Hinge Health to provide coach-led digital programs for U
.S.-based 
employees dealing with chronic back, knee, and hip pain. 
•
 Partnership with My Secure Advantage (MSA) Financial W
ellness program, which provides 
education and access for all U.S.-based employees (and spouses/ dependents) to 90 days of free financial coaching annually. The health and well-being of pets, people, and 
livestock is what we’re all about at IDEXX. That’s 
why we provide programs and incentives to help 
employees focus on their health in several ways. 
Supporting employees’ personal well-being will have a lasting 
and powerful impact on both the company and our people. Our 
well-being strategy is focused on creating a global community 
through awareness, education, and empowerment that inspires 
employees and their families to live their healthiest lives. 
We support our employees ’ journeys
toward optimal health and wellness by investing 
in benefits, programs, and incentives that form 
the four pillars of our well-being strategy:
The Make It OK campaign was created 
to reduce the stigma around mental 
illness. Mental illnesses are treatable 
health conditions more common than 
diabetes, yet most people wait an 
average of 10 years before getting help, 
largely due to stigma. We believe that 
if we know more, we can do more. If we 
understand more, we’ll make it okay. 
The Make It OK campaign is  
made possible by HealthPartners, Inc.PHYSICAL 
HEALTHEMOTIONAL 
RESILIENCE
FINANCIAL 
HEALTHSOCIAL 
CONNECTEDNESS 
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEEMPLOYEE WELL-BEING // 3681%Key programs and incentives
Well-Being Engagement and Incentive Empowered 
by Virgin Pulse. Virgin Pulse is a global digital tool 
that gives employees access to all the wellness 
programs available to them in one place. 
4,700+global 
users
of users have an activity device connectedof users have social connections on the platformsatisfaction with the programaverage employee enrollment in Virgin Pulse 
70% 70% 80%Employee Assistance Program (EAP). EAP is a 
global service to support the mental health and well-
being of IDEXX employees, offering a wide variety 
of free, confidential services to help them juggle 
complicated family, work, and personal needs. 
Family Friendly Benefits. IDEXX offers family-
friendly benefits that allow eligible employees 
to receive compensation for time taken from 
work to bond with a newly born or adopted 
family member. U.S. employees are also eligible for financial assistance toward the cost of 
adopting a child, as well as fertility assistance. 
Fitness Reimbursement. IDEXX 
employees in many countries receive 
reimbursement for certain fitness activities. 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). 
Subject to plan rules, IDEXX U.S. employees 
can purchase shares at a discount to market 
price, enabling them to share in the success of 
the company and build wealth for the future. 
Benefits. Full-time employees are eligible for 
benefits. While specific offerings will vary by 
country, benefits include programs that cover 
spouses/domestic partners; comprehensive 
medical, dental, and vision care; employee 
and family life insurance; retirement salary 
savings programs such as 401(k) for U.S. 
employees with a competitive company match.
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEEMPLOYEE WELL-BEING // 37We encourage employee awareness of health risks through 
assessments and educational opportunities. IDEXX also supports behavior change and empowers employees to act by providing them with the right tools. These include a global emotional support program offering free counseling for employees and family members and a global well-being application with virtual tools to build healthy fitness, sleep, social, and financial habits. These programs and others support holistic 
employee health by providing resources to address the four pillars of our strategy. 
At our World Campus, where one-third of our workforce is located, 
employees can utilize the fitness center, attend group fitness classes, meet with a life coach or dietitian, and receive a personalized workout program. The facility also includes an urgent care clinic and on-site physical therapy services. During the pandemic, we shifted many of these services to virtual offerings. Now employees worldwide can attend online group fitness classes, join a virtual guided meditation, and participate in a video consult with an exercise specialist or the life coach.
Gold Award Winner from the American Heart 
Association’s  W
orkplace Health Achievement 
Index in 2019 and 2020. The Index is designed 
to help organizations assess the quality
, 
comprehensiveness, and effectiveness of their workplace health program and the heart health of their employees.2018, 2019, and 2020 Gold Award Winner 
from the Business Group on Health—Best Employers: Excellence in Health and Well-Being. 2020 recognition included Special Recognition for Mental Health award.
Selected goals for  
2021–2022 
• Continue to  expand IDEXX well-
being culture and programs 
through global representation on the W
ell-being Steering Committee 
and build a well-being champion network throughout our locations around the world. 
•
 Expand the Make It OK campaign to all IDEXX locations. 
•
 Continue to adapt in-person support services to virtual platforms and make
 IDEXX well-being 
programs  more globally inclusive. 
• Focus on increasing program engagement for employees in all workplace locations across the company
, especially those without 
regular access to a computer. RECOGNITION 
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEEMPLOYEE WELL-BEING // 38“
Health and Safety
Our corporate Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) function provides 
centralized oversight of company-wide safety programs through the IDEXX EH&S management system, the goals of which are to: 
•
 Promote operational awareness, recognize risks, and ensure  safe work practices 
•
 Implement operational and emergency procedures 
• Utilize investigation protocols to promote a continuous  improvement culture 
•
 Track and report safety
-related incidents (ergonomic issues, slips,  
trips, falls, etc.), environmental spills or releases, and EH&S compliance findings 
•
 Monitor performance and undertake a proactive improvement approach 
• Engage employees and cross-functional teams to develop,  implement, and sustain safety initiatives 
We get an  opportunity  to work cross-functionally  throughout the 
organization, learn from each other, and build global management 
systems to support our employees’ health and safety
.” 
 JAMES BECHEN SENIOR MANAGER ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY,  FACILITIES
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACE // 39Selected accomplishments over the last two years
• In order to reach our employees for 
whom English is a second language, we created visual safety manuals. These manuals communicate the key components of how to execute the job
 safely and responsibly  in a 
universally accessible visual format. 
• As part of our COVID
-19 response, 
we created global employee safety manuals with clear information on preventive measures to reduce risks of exposure and transmission of the virus while in the workplace. Additionally, we were proactive in securing personal protective equipment (PPE) prior to a worldwide shortage. Access to PPE was prioritized for all essential employees in reference laboratories, manufacturing, distribution centers, and field support teams. •
 Identified and trained safety champions and established safety teams at our locations around the globe. Through this program, we have been able to increase site-specific safety literacy while helping teams create a culture of safety at their own location.•
 Developed a global, standardized incident reporting system using a single database to increase safety awareness with our worldwide workforce. By systematically tracking incident reporting, we are providing employees the opportunity to share lessons learned and bolster our  safety programs for all our locations. The COVID-19 pandemic created new challenges for employee 
health and safety. As an industry leader in veterinary diagnostics, we have a large pool of employees providing essential laboratory testing products and services who continue to work on-site. 
Safety measures such as required face coverings, enhanced cleaning and disinfecting 
protocols, and capacity limits have been implemented to reduce their risk of exposure. In addition, we reconfigured workspaces to maximize social distancing and implemented temperature checks for those entering our World Campus. Other employee groups received support and training specific to their role. For instance, we created a safety guide for employees working in the field and visiting customer sites and provided ergonomic assessment and training support to remote workers who were adjusting to home office environments. 
Up-to-date policy information, training materials, and general safety guidance can be accessed by all 
employees on our COVID-19 Employee Update Center on the company’s intranet. 
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEHEALTH AND SAFETY // 40Selected goals for  
2021–2022 
• Expand our safety incident management system to be accessible for all IDEXX locations and provide global managers and supervisors with dashboards that report trends from their departments’ incidents. Increasing engagement on safety incidents will help our employees be more proactive and potentially reduce injuries from occurring. 
•
 Strengthen our global communication channels to promote our safety culture and provide tools to our employees, such as continuing to convene EH&S town hall meetings with Operations managers and supervisors. These events streamline information distribution and create opportunities for employee feedback. 
•
 Continue positive trends of reduced recordable incidents, lost time, and restricted time from workplace incidents. 2019 safety performance 
Workplace safety programs undertaken over 
the last few years have yielded positive results. 2019 performance, compared to 2017, shows a continued downward trend of both the frequency and severity of incidents
1. In 2019, visual safety 
manuals created for reference laboratories and distribution centers played a key role in educating employees on EH&S risks, incident prevention measures, and IDEXX’s expectations. 
GLOBAL RATES 
12.5 8.41.6  1.02 
2.8 2.05
0.4  0.4 0.03 0.062017 2019
Recordable 
Lost Time
Lost Days
Restricted Cases
Restricted Days
1 Incident Rate = # incidents per 200,000 hours worked
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEHEALTH AND SAFETY // 41IDEXX is committed to being a good corporate citizen 
in every country in which we do business. We support organizations in the communities where our employees live and work, with a priority on the locations where we have greatest concentration of employees. Our 
contributions comply with the IDEXX Code of Ethics
 and 
Anti-Corruption and Bribery P
olicy and are aligned with 
our commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion.
IDEXX partnership and volunteering goals are to support organizations and 
initiatives that align with our Purpose, are meaningful to our employees, and have the following areas of focus: 
•
 Strengthen the human-animal bond 
• Advance STEM education and associated workforce development 
opportunities 
• Promote DEI 
• Provide emergency response and disaster relief for animals and people affected by extreme climate events
•
 Advance local economic development 
• Implement water stewardship programs Partnerships and Volunteering
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACE // 42Gulf of Maine 
Research Institute’s (GMRI) LabVenture program is an interactive learning experience to advance science literacy. This program is inclusive and involves more than 10,000 students located throughout urban and rural areas of Maine. 
As part of our 
partnership with Junior Achievement , 
we have hosted large-scale educational events and sent hundreds of IDEXX volunteers into local classrooms. 
IDEXX is the exclusive 
partner of Dempsey Dogs, 
the Dempsey Center’s pet therapy program which provides comfort and support to people impacted by cancer, especially children and teenagers. 
Riding to The Top Therapeutic 
Riding Center (RTT) is an organization dedicated to enhancing the health and well-being of children and adults with disabilities through equine activities and therapies. IDEXX supports the Maine Medical Center’s Hoyt Therapy Dog  
program. More than 25 certified dogs are part of the program. Their devoted handlers take them to visit hospital patients of all ages to offer comfort and levity during difficult times. 
MightyVet is an organization 
dedicated to mental health and suicide prevention for veterinary professionals that offers free, on-demand continuing education programs and virtual office hours as well as other resources. 
IDEXX STEM Learning 
Hub will be the experiential science learning workshop in the new Children’s Museum & Theatre of Maine. The Mini Veterinary Clinic exhibit will encourage  children who are aspiring veterinarians to learn how to care for pets and perform basic diagnostics. The learning hub will also feature an educational water testing station that will reinforce the connection between water quality and watershed systems.
Meet a few of our community partners
To learn more about our partnerships, see What We Do Matters , One Health, One IDEXX , DEI and Our beginnings and growth in Maine sections of the report. ANIMAL REGE LEAGUEIDEXX has partnered with the 
FUAnimal Refuge League of 
Greater Portland (ARLGP) for GREATER PORTLAND 
more than a decade through 
employee volunteerism, 
adoption and fostering, as 
well as financial and in-kind 
diagnostic support for state 
and national animal welfare emergencies.  IDEXX’s 
partnership with ARLGP will continue in 2021 with our 
support of the IDEXX Safety Net Program to aid in the 
relocation of animals from across the country to the 
ARLGP for adoption.
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEPARTNERSHIPS AND VOLUNTEERING // 43Global employee Australia 
bushfire response campaign 
In early 2020, IDEXX launched the Australia 
Bushfires Response Campaign, raising 
funds through global employee giving, 
corporate matching, and in-kind donations. 
IDEXXers from 75 locations in 14 countries 
raised funds for World Wildlife Fund, 
RSPCA , Australian Red Cross , and 
the Australian Veterinary Association 
Benevolent Fund. On the ground, IDEXX 
donated diagnostic services to local 
veterinarians and aid agencies engaged in 
the front-line response, including a primary 
school converted into a care facility for 
animals injured in the bushfires. 
locationsIDEXXers in75 14 countries“ It was overwhelming to see how IDDEXX employees 
translated their concern into much needed financial support to 
charities and community groups providing aid. We received so many 
messages of support and empathy from colleagues around the world. 
I am part of the IDEXX family, and it is moments like these that you 
realize what that really means.” 
ROSEMARY SANTANGELO CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MANAGER  
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND 
We established the IDEXX Foundation, 
a donor-advised charitable fund, with 
a contribution of $10 million, to support 
activities aligned with our Purpose. The 
IDEXX Foundation will complement our 
ongoing local partnerships while also 
broadening our geographic reach and social 
impact. The IDEXX Foundation’s priorities 
will be on long-term, outcomes-focused 
investments in areas such as supporting 
education in the veterinary and STEM fields, 
including advancing DEI in animal health care.
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEPARTNERSHIPS AND VOLUNTEERING // 44Selected goals for  
2021–2022 
• Engage with global IDEXX locations to roll out new Corporate Responsibility Investment Policy 
•
 Establish framework for tracking and communicating outcomes of investments and partnerships
•
 Launch Global Employee Match Emergency Response Program to support animals and people impacted by extreme climate events 
•
 Implement system to track contributions to community organizations at IDEXX global locations
•
 Create volunteering opportunities for IDEXX veterinarians and veterinary technicians
•
 Increase employee engagement with community involvement and awareness of global partnershipstotal corporate contributions to 
community organizations
Our Global IDEXX Volunteer Efforts 
(GiVE) program supports employees’ involvement in the communities where we live and work. IDEXX offers up to 16 hours paid Volunteer Time Off (VTO) per year to employees, which increases our positive impact around the world. $840,0002019 CONTRIBUTIONS
AND VOLUNTEER HOURS1
1 Reported spend is based on World Campus contributions to 
community organizations. Our systems do not currently track our 
global contributions to community organizations.7,194 
global employee volunteer hours
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEPARTNERSHIPS AND VOLUNTEERING // 45Our beginnings and 
growth in Maine 
IDEXX was founded in 1983 with five employees in Portland, 
Maine. As a global company, nearly 40 years later, we are still proud 
to be headquartered in the Pine Tree State. Our World Campus is 
located in Westbrook and employs more than 2,700 Maine residents.  
Having IDEXX headquartered in Maine means we can provide 
opportunities for Mainers to remain in-state to pursue dynamic 
careers in a broad range of disciplines. Many of our employees have 
made IDEXX their career-long home and gained experience in diverse 
areas of the company throughout their professional development.“
I interned at IDEXX the summer before my senior year at the 
University of Maine. I started full-time in May 2016 and am so 
grateful for the opportunity to build a fulfilling career in my home 
state. No matter where in the company my career takes me, I am 
able to build on the knowledge and skills I have gained so far to 
make lasting contributions to IDEXX’s Purpose.”    
CHRISTINE REYNOLDS ASSOCIATE SCIENTIST II, PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACE // 46“I grew up in Southern Maine. I left the state for my undergraduate 
degree and then returned to the University of Maine for my 
master’s and PhD. Upon graduation, I expected that Boston 
would be the nearest point for a job in biotechnology, but then 
I found IDEXX. I have been with IDEXX for 19 years. After many 
different ascending roles in R&D Engineering, I have expanded 
my team to be encompassing of all Cellular Diagnostics.  
I love that I can stay in Maine with  
my wife and both of our families.” 
JEREMY HAMMOND ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR AND FELLOW,  
R&D ENGINEERING
“I am a first-generation Puerto Rican—my family moved to 
Maine when I was in first grade. I was hired at IDEXX in 
2003—a single mom at the time—and IDEXX supported my 
growth. I’ve held various roles and am now an Associate 
Director in IT.  I have made lifelong friendships across the 
globe and at home. I am very proud to work at IDEXX and 
thankful to live where my family can enjoy 
the outdoors, good people, and great education.”
HILDA SASTRE ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR, PROGRAM MANAGEMENT,  
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) 
A Cyber Security graduate from 
Thomas College in my hometown of 
Waterville, I have strong connections 
to Maine. My goal was always to 
build my career in Maine if possible 
and I have been able to do that at 
IDEXX—first as an intern and now as 
part of the Cyber Security team. I look 
forward to what my future holds at 
IDEXX.”  
KAYLA MAHEUX CYBER SECURITY 
AND COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR, 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) “
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEOUR BEGINNINGS AND GROWTH IN MAINE // 47Our partnerships in the local community reflect our commitment 
to a healthy economic future for the state of Maine. Meet some of our local economic development partners
Focus Maine’s goal is to improve local job 
creation in aquaculture, agriculture, and 
biopharmaceutical sectors, empowering Maine 
businesses to sell services outside the state, 
thus creating a multiplier effect and increasing 
the positive impact on the local economy.
The Portland Regional Chamber of Commerce  
advocates for Portland businesses at the local and 
state level, and provides assistance with networking, 
marketing, and professional development.
The Maine International Trade Center (MITC) provides 
a variety of services to help Maine companies with 
exports and international sales, including consulting 
assistance, grants, educational resources, and 
coordinating participation in international trade shows.ProsperityME provides support services to immigrants and 
refugees as they build new lives in Maine. Programming includes financial education, career and business development, housing assistance, and college scholarships.
Startup Maine  fosters the advancement of entrepreneurs and 
innovators in Maine by bringing together local startups and 
businesspeople for training, networking, and knowledge-sharing.  
Immigrant Welcome Center of Greater Portland creates 
programs designed to help the Portland immigrant community reach its economic and social potential. Their Immigrant Business Hub offers training, connections, and lending solutions for immigrant-owned small businesses. Programming includes iEnglish, a digital solution for learning English that makes it easier for immigrants to take advantage of economic opportunities.
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEOUR BEGINNINGS AND GROWTH IN MAINE // 48180
employeesLatin America
6,128
employeesNorth America
What matters to us
IDEXXers all over the world are living our Purpose
Europe
2,232
employees
“I feel that I have a 
huge responsibility 
to my team—from 
their well-being to 
helping them be 
the best version 
of themselves 
at work and in 
our community.” 
HANAN DABABNEH  
LABORATORY 
MANAGER II. USA
“IDEXX’s commitment 
to ethics is very 
important to me. 
Brazil is a newer 
part of the company 
and I feel valued in 
the work I am doing to continuously 
improve controls 
and processes 
for efficiency and 
compliance with 
IDEXX systems.
KATIA FONTEBASSO 
CONTROLLER. BRAZIL
“Every day, IDEXXers 
invest resources, 
time and dedication 
improving the well-
being of animals. 
This is so important 
to me.” 
EDUARDO ABECIA   
SENIOR DIRECTOR 
AND GENERAL 
MANAGER, LATIN 
AMERICA. BRAZIL 
“I like growth—to 
grow personally every day, grow as a global team, launch 
new projects, and 
write the playbook to 
continuously improve 
how we support 
each other and our 
customers.” 
ANDREA 
IUCCI CORPORATE 
VICE PRESIDENT AND 
GENERAL MANAGER, 
CAG EUROPE. 
NETHERLANDS 
 “Even during these 
difficult COVID-19 
times, our team 
continues to be creative, engaged 
and motivated—that 
gives me a great 
sense of pride.” 
HAMID MOOSAVI  
CUSTOMER SUPPORT 
SUPERVISOR. 
NORTHERN EUROPE 
REGION 
“It is amazing how 
the company has 
grown over the last 
years—very exciting 
to imagine the many 
opportunities we have 
to fulfill our Purpose.” 
CHRISTIANE 
SCHEFFLER  
DIRECTOR AND 
GENERAL MANAGER 
CAG GERMANY . 
GERMANY 
“I work across 
diverse cultures—
from Dubai to 
Morocco, Bangkok 
to India. I believe 
that my work at 
IDEXX has a direct effect on the health 
of thousands of 
animals across 
these countries.” 
ELIE ATIEH SALES 
MANAGER. DUBAI 
“Because of what we 
do, veterinarians and 
pet owners become 
more knowledgeable 
and confident about 
the health status 
of their beloved 
pet—that is very 
motivating for me.” 
IRIS FISSCHER HEAD 
OF INTERNATIONAL 
MARKETING 
COMMUNICATIONS. 
NETHERLANDS  
“Continuing to bring 
long term value for 
our customers is so 
important to me. I 
am rewarded with a 
tremendous feeling 
of appreciation 
from our customer 
relationships.”
ROBIN CORKUM
CAG FIELD SUPPORT 
REPRESENTATIVE – 
DIAGNOSTICS.  
CANADA
“We enhance health 
by developing new 
biomarkers for 
detecting early onset of disease. The most 
enjoyable part of my 
job is the opportunity 
to collaborate with 
researchers around 
the world.” 
SARAH 
PETERSON, MD, PHD 
MANAGER – CLINICAL 
RESEARCH, R&D. USA
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACE // 49Asia Pacific
618
employees
Africa/
Middle East
47
employees
“I focus on the 
development of 
our team members 
and giving them 
encouragement to 
realize their own 
value.” LINDA DING  
ASIA LOGISTIC AND 
CUSTOMER SERVICE 
MANAGER. CHINA  
“My favorite part of 
being with IDEXX is 
the passion of our 
people around the 
world—we are always 
trying to help each 
other.” MICKY ONODA  
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR 
AND GENERAL 
MANAGER. JAPAN
“As a father, husband 
and pet owner I 
take great pride in 
contributing with  
like-minded 
colleagues to a 
company that is driven by improving 
the lives of others.” 
SIMON FEE  
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR 
AND GENERAL 
MANAGER. AUSTRALIA
“I feel that I make a 
positive difference 
and have so many 
opportunities to 
collaborate with 
like-minded people 
from all over the 
world.” PAT POON  
OPERATIONS AND 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
MANAGER. AUSTRALIA.
“Our people make 
the difference at 
IDEXX.” MEGAN 
ADAMS HUMAN 
RESOURCE 
MANAGER. 
AUSTRALIA
“We treat each other 
with trust, respect, 
and honesty, placing a high value on accessibility, clear 
decision-making, 
and individual accountability.” 
ANCHALEE LA-ARD   
LPD COMMERCIAL 
MANAGER SAMI 
(SOUTHEAST ASIA, 
MIDDLE EAST AND 
INDIA). THAILAND 
“Our team is always 
trying to improve 
on productivity and 
efficiency—we love 
seeing the positive 
impacts to the 
business. We are  
never bored!” KUMIKO 
HARA OPERATIONS 
MANAGER. JAPAN 
“IDEXX gives us 
freedom to explore 
career opportunities 
and interdepartmental 
cross-training 
is encouraged—
employees have 
the opportunity to 
have their ideas heard.” 
AGISANANG 
MODIBANE  
LABORATORY 
SUPERVISOR. SOUTH 
AFRICA 
“It is so rewarding to 
learn from diverse 
colleagues and work 
in this inclusive 
culture. Every day 
I feel empowered 
to be myself in 
an ever-changing 
world.” FIRDAUS 
KHAN LABORATORY 
SUPERVISOR, 
SEROLOGY . SOUTH 
AFRICA
“Pets are family 
members. Taiwan 
IDEXX is taking 
care of more than 
2 million pets and 
their families. And I 
am very proud of it.” 
ODEY KUO TAIWAN 
CAG MANAGER. 
TAIWAN 
SOURCE: IDEXX WORKDAY HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT PLATFORM / DATE PULLED: OCTOBER 30, 2020. 
OUR PEOPLE AND WORKPLACEWHAT MATTERS TO US // 50Environmental 
Sustainability and Innovation“Our goal is to continuously 
improve our environmental 
sustainability practices without 
compromising diagnostics. We are  
committed to being a holistically  
responsible company.” 
TINA HUNT EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT,  
POINT OF CARE DIAGNOSTICS  
AND OPERATIONS 
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT / 53
 SUPPLY CHAIN AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP / 58
 // 51Our talented teams are committed to 
developing environmentally conscious 
products; doing so is a part of our design 
process and rooted in our culture.”   
TARA MCFADD DIRECTOR,  
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT   “IDEXX’s culture of innovation, continuous improvement, and 
entrepreneurial spirit are core to advancing environmental sustainability with our products, processes, and facilities. Our progress to date is driven by enterprise and employee-led initiatives that consider our impact on people and the environment. 
In response to the threat of climate change and associated risks, we are developing an 
environmental sustainability framework and strategic plan that will include science-based targets. While baseline measurements and goal-setting activities are still in progress, we have completed many projects, including: 
SNAP
® tests: SNAP® tests help 
veterinarians quickly diagnose 
a variety of diseases in our companion animals. While SNAP
® tests are incredibly 
important to our customers, the tests and their packaging are a source of plastic and other material waste. As such, we have efforts underway to reduce the amount and type of material we use to deliver this essential product. Green Buildings: Our Synergy East facility, which opened in 2020, is the second building on our World Campus built to LEED Gold standards. The building has a rooftop solar array, rainwater collection system, and dynamic glass for low-energy temperature control. Circular Economy: We have created a comprehensive infrastructure to support our instrument longevity, using technology and regional service depots to upgrade and refurbish machines, preserving materials and reducing shipping requirements. “ We have a highly talented
and purpose-driven workforce. I’m excited about the 
future opportunities to bring greener packaging and other 
sustainable product solutions to our global customers.” 
JOHN HART CORPORATE VICE PRESIDENT,  
WORLDWIDE OPERATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION  // 52As a growing global company, IDEXX is committed to 
responsibly managing the environmental footprint of our 
facilities including administrative offices, customer support 
centers, reference laboratories, research and development 
space, manufacturing, and distribution centers. Our global 
facilities management team is dedicated to reducing energy 
and water usage, advancing sustainable waste disposal and 
recycling, and creating healthy workplaces for our employees. 
Facilities Management
IDEXX’s remarkable innovation engine fuels every aspect of our 
business and drives us to incorporate advanced features in our 
facilities. Our designs prioritize reducing our environmental footprint, 
while enhancing employee health and experience with improved  
air quality, more natural light, and reduced noise levels.” 
DANA FORTIER DIRECTOR, GLOBAL FACILITIES STRATEGY AND IMPLEMENTATION “
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION  // 53IDEXX’s World Campus, industrial sites, reference laboratories and associated 
facilities in Kornwestheim, Germany, and European Union office and distribution center in Hoofddorp, Netherlands, represent 50% of IDEXX’s Global Square Footage (SF). We have systems in place to track energy and water usage at our facilities that are IDEXX owned and leased properties  (85% of our square footage). Selected 
accomplishments over the last two years
• Sustainability considerations were at the forefront when planning the Synergy East expansion on our World Campus and our K
ornwestheim, Germany, 
reference laboratory and related facilities. For example, the IDEXX team followed the United States Green Building Council (USGBC) standards for constructing Synergy East.
•
 Our new Kornwestheim facility meets, and in some areas exceeds, European Union green building standards. The building features plate-to-plate heat exchangers that recover 72% of energy from exhaust air and re-use it for heating and cooling. The entire 
site uses 100% LED lighting. 
All employees have  sit-to-stand workstations with access to daylight, creating a healthy workspace imbued with natural light. 
•
 Hired an Environmental Sustainability Specialist to advance development of our multi-year environmental sustainability strategy and  create opportunities for  employee engagement on sustainability issues.kWh per square foot average energy consumption per floor2019 ENERGY, WATER, AND CO 2 EMISSIONS
Our global square footage increased from  
1,727,392 in 2017 to 1,865,862 in 2019, an 8% 
increase. A careful focus on minimizing the negative 
environmental impacts of our footprint growth has 
resulted in a decrease in water and energy consumption 
and minimal CO2 emission increases since 2017.
35.041.1
22,153 21,159 
20.621.0
million gallons of water usagetonnes of CO 2 total global emissions201720172017
2019 20192019
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION FACILITIES MANAGEMENT // 54MULTI-YEAR 
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
In mid-2020, IDEXX initiated a 
rigorous process to develop a multi-year environmental sustainability strategy. The process involves:
•
 Gathering insights into employees’ and external stakeholders’ priorities, including facilities, supply chain, commercial, operations, human resources, and investor relations 
•
 Reviewing best practices from companies similar to IDEXX in footprint, risks, and opportunities 
•
 Assessing readiness to undertake a third-party carbon footprint assessment and climate-related risk and opportunity scenario analysis in accordance with the Task F
orce 
for Climate-related Financial Disclosure recommendations 
•
 Developing science-based targets and goals for managing our environmental footprint and communicating our progress to employees and external stakeholdersBuildings and operations energy use  
We track our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions 
as part of our energy management program. In 2019, our buildings across the globe averaged energy usage of 35 kWh per square foot. This figure includes approximately 85% of our worldwide square footage. We are working to expand our data collection process and will strive to continue increasing our energy efficiency globally.Tracking our carbon footprint
As IDEXX continues to grow, we are focusing  our efforts on minimizing energy use and implementing renewable energy systems at our facilities. We will establish science-based targets  once we have completed our upcoming third- party carbon footprint assessment.
For more information, please see our Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Our World Campus achieved 
certification to ISO 9001 (quality standard) in 2006 and ISO 14001 (environmental standard) in 2015. This certification provides the foundation for our Integrated Management System (IMS) and reinforces IDEXX’s commitment to ensuring compliance with applicable environmental regulations and other requirements, minimizing the impact of our operations on the environment and continually setting goals for improvement. 100% of IDEXX worldwide manufacturing facilities are ISO certified.Since 2013, the Synergy building at our World Campus has been LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold certified. Our new Synergy East building was built to LEED Gold standards and is targeting LEED Gold certification in 2020. As the gold standard in sustainable buildings, LEED certification refers to buildings that have been designed, built, and maintained using green building and energy efficiency best practices. LEED certification is global and the most widely adopted benchmark because its standards apply to buildings at the global, regional, and local levels. 
RECOGNITION “ I love IDEXX’s holistic approach
to animal and human health and that I have the 
support and opportunities to grow.” 
KATE SAUNDERS SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE  
ASSOCIATE, FACILITIES, USA 
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION FACILITIES MANAGEMENT // 55Selected goals for  
2021–2022 
• Undertake a third-party carbon footprint assessment 
•
 Further develop disclosure of climate-related risks in line with the recommendations of the T
ask Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures
• Track energy and water usage 
at all IDEXX
-owned facilities 
and industrial sites, and assess feasibility of tracking energy and water usage at 15% of IDEXX locations which are tenant-operated buildings and not currently covered in our data management systems 
•
 Develop a multi-year environmental sustainability strategy with science-based targets and goals for managing our environmental footprint 
•
 Strengthen global employee engagement and communication on environmental sustainability initiatives Conserving water in innovative ways
In addition to finding ways to make our operations more energy 
efficient, we also seek out ways to protect another valuable resource: water. Our World Campus facilities feature low-flow toilets, low-flow, touchless faucets, and solar-powered actuators on toilets that are recharged by bathroom lights. 
100% of urinals in our World Campus have been converted to 
waterless versions, saving one million gallons of water annually. This is the standard for all new buildings that IDEXX constructs.
Managing waste and recycling 
In 2019 we consolidated our waste haulers to more efficiently manage our waste streams, resulting in fewer trips to transport waste. This is preparing us for a single database to understand our waste across all IDEXX locations. Sites are spearheading their own initiatives to reduce their most significant wastes. For example, our Louisville reference lab switched to a reusable sharps disposal container, resulting in 1900 pounds of plastic saved in 2018.
 At the W
orld Campus, Facilities partnered with We 
Compost it! to turn our food waste into compost, an effort which diverted more than 150,000 pounds of food waste from the landfill in 2019.150,0001,900
pounds of food waste  
diverted from landfillspounds of plastic saved
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION FACILITIES MANAGEMENT // 56environmental  
impact reduction50%indoor water use reduction
10%30,000
gallon rainwater storage
600+solar  energy  panels
producing 200 kWh peak and over 250 MWh annually
Sustainability highlights of Synergy East
• 30,000-gallon rainwater storage unit and use of low-flow 
fixtures, reducing indoor water use by more than 50%.
• A life-cycle assessment demonstrated a 10% minimum reduction in environmental impacts compared with baseline facility’s impacts such as carbon footprint, non-renewable resource depletion, and ozone layer depletion.
•
 Synergy East’s photovoltaic array consists of over 600 panels producing 200 kWh peak and over 250 MWh annually. This accounts for more than 15% of the building’s annual energy consumption. 
•
 Windows are electrochromatic(dynamic tinting) to maximize daylight and outside views while eliminating glare. This innovative design feature substantially lowers energy consumption for both cooling and lighting while improving the employee experience.
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION FACILITIES MANAGEMENT // 57Our Supply Chain and Product Stewardship teams are 
responsible for the sourcing of materials from around the world 
to make our products, and the warehousing and transportation 
required to deliver products to our customers. Our supply chain 
originates with hundreds of global suppliers, all of whom we 
hold to a high standard. Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires 
that they follow national and local laws and regulations, and 
act responsibly regarding labor and human rights issues. 
Supply Chain and  
Product Stewardship
IDEXXers are passionate about social and environmental issues. As a 
supply chain, we encourage those passions and allow our people to pursue goals that help us advance our sustainability practices.” 
KEVIN THERRIEN SENIOR DIRECTOR, WORLDWIDE SUPPLY CHAIN“
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION  // 58“ Our team’s role is to 
evaluate product risks 
for customer safety and environmental 
impacts. I enjoy making an impact 
globally and helping IDEXX address 
challenges that are faced by many 
other companies.” 
DIANA RONDEAU SENIOR MANAGER,  
PRODUCT COMPLIANCE
Supply chain transparency is increasingly important in today’s global 
economy. From ethical labor practices within our supplier network, to  material traceability throughout the world, we are focused on managing the social and environmental impacts of our supply chain and communicating those actions to our stakeholders. There are an increasing number of regional environmental regulations around the globe that require our attention. That’s why we’ve created a globally integrated compliance team that is developing company-wide standards that meet or exceed regional regulatory requirements. 
We are transitioning from traditional, linear “take, make, waste” 
systems that contribute heavily to global warming—toward more circular solutions. This approach means making products and packaging lighter and smaller, using minimal materials, improving the durability and useful life of our products, and reusing and repurposing materials. 
In addition to reducing the impact of our packaging and 
products, we are determined to improve the way products are delivered to customers. While some transportation emissions are inevitable, we are working to capture shipping efficiencies and utilize low-impact modes of transportation when possible.Selected 
accomplishments over the last two years
• Our SNAP® tests are going through 
many environmental improvements. All CAG SNAP
® and most SNAP® 
dairy products in the U.S. have been packed in corrugated cartons with approximately 95% recycled content. We have also decreased the size of shipping containers to reduce material use and shipping emissions. 
•
 Made progress in sustainable packaging innovation since 2018. Using 100% recycled Polyethylene terephthalate (PET), we designed a blister pack to hold water quality products. Most recently
, our team 
in Australia has implemented wool-insulated packaging for products that need to stay cold in transit. The wool is sourced from recycled materials and replaces polystyrene foam packaging, and is 100% recyclable, compostable, and biodegradable.
•
 Implemented practices to limit our waste disposal in compliance with the EU’s Extended Producer Responsibilities requirements for Battery and Packaging and WEEE (W
aste Electrical & Electronic 
Equipment).
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION SUPPLY CHAIN AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP // 59The circular economy
Participation in the circular economy 
is an important part of our vision for a sustainable future. Circular economy refers to a set of principles that encourages businesses to maximize the value and useful life of physical goods. This is accomplished by finding ways to reuse, repair, and repurpose products and materials. IDEXX is improving the circularity of our in-house analyzers, both in product design and commercial solutions. We have designed our products to last, with analyzers often staying in use for 10+ years. To support the long life of these products, IDEXX has service depots around the world that repair and refurbish analyzers, keeping our machines in use for decades.
ProCyte One®
Our new ProCyte One® analyzer was 
designed with reducing environmental impact in mind. It was made with minimal components, making it easier to service, repair, and reuse. Reagents were designed to meet all EU environmental and health regulations. Additionally, the packaging and consumable bottles are recyclable, and the machine has a low-power mode to minimize electricity use.
Our groundbreaking
products have exceptional
quality with environmental 
sustainability considerations 
integrated into their designs 
as these innovations  
are born.”   
JEFF THOMAS CORPORATE 
VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF 
TECHNOLOGY OFFICER
“Selected 
accomplishments over the last two years
• Made progress in digitizing our supply chain with the goal of improving our product tracking and tracing, and our data gathering capabilities. IDEXX’s rapid growth has necessitated that we upgrade our systems and digital capabilities to keep pace with our global customers’ needs and make informed decisions about how best to improve our supply chain sustainability. 
•
 Established protocols for Standards Based Testing and Design, European Union (EU) Composition Compliance, and Chemical Compliance.
•
 Increased supply chain transparency and disclosures through our Modern Slavery Statement and Conflict Minerals P
olicy.
• In 2019, as in prior years, we have not identified any instances of modern slavery at our suppliers or in our supply chains as no modern slavery or human rights issues have been reported to us via our grievance reporting mechanism or IDEXX Ethics Hotline.
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION SUPPLY CHAIN AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP // 60Supplier Quality Engineering
The outstanding quality of IDEXX products and services 
requires partnerships with suppliers in a wide range 
of markets. Despite the diversity, there is a common 
requirement for suppliers to have a quality management 
system that complies with recognized industry standards, 
such as ISO-9001 or ISO-13485. IDEXX’s Supplier Quality 
Engineering team works directly with this wide base of 
supply partners to assure their quality management 
systems will satisfy IDEXX’s exacting quality requirements.
Supplier Quality Engineering also works with suppliers 
on the implementation of controls for the production of 
consistent, high quality materials. We regularly conduct 
audits at supplier locations to verify these control systems 
are working as reported and meet all IDEXX requirements.
IDEXX includes key suppliers in our version of Six Sigma 
training, known as FIVEX. This establishes a universal 
language and common set of tools for resolving 
problems and driving continuous improvements, 
assuring the delivery of high-quality materials now and 
in the future. As a final step in the control of material 
quality, our Incoming Quality Assurance team inspects 
and tests material samples to confirm that all controls 
have worked as expected.Selected goals for  
2021–2022 
• We are committed to continuing our efforts to reduce the environmental impact of SNAP
® tests. This 
includes initiatives designed to: 
 °Replace expanded polystyrene with insulation that is curbside recyclable 
 °Develop more ambient shipping options for all major SNAP
® 
tests, removing cold packs, reducing container size, and reducing shipping emissions
•
 Work with third-party auditing organizations to assess environmental performance and compliance with our 
Supplier Code 
of Conduct. 
• Optimize our supply chain network to reduce carbon emissions. Current and upcoming projects in this area will minimize product movement, maximize efficiency of shipping schedules, and improve our ability to forecast demand.
•
 Continue to advance green packaging solutions, such as ongoing testing for new cold-chain packaging options made from recycled or environmentally friendly materials that allow our customers to participate in convenient and sustainable disposal of product packaging. 
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION SUPPLY CHAIN AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP // 61VALERIA TELONI, REGULATORY 
AFFAIRS SPECIALIST—PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT , leads the Green 
Team at our European Headquarters in Hoofddorp, The Netherlands. In creating the Green Team, Valeria was able to harness her colleagues’ enthusiasm for sustainability and collectively create an action plan to reduce the Hoofddorp office’s waste footprint. As a result of the Green Team’s efforts, the office has transitioned away from disposable coffee cups and other single-use supplies and increased employee engagement for individual actions toward a sustainable living. MICHAEL SCHRAMEYER,  SENIOR MECHANICAL ENGINEER—PRODUCT DESIGN based at our World Campus, founded the Environmental Stewardship Committee in 2018 to educate employees on sustainability practices at work and at home. The committee has held dozens of ‘lunch and learn’ presentations, with topics ranging from green product innovations to local conservation efforts across Maine. The committee also brings environmentally focused organizations and vendors to campus for an annual sustainability fair and has made progress in improving recycling practices at our World Campus facilities. 
Employee-led sustainability initiatives
MIRANDA BROOKER, MEDICAL LABORATORY TECHNICIAN in Norcross, Georgia, improved recycling practices at her facility by developing a program that now includes recycling paper, plastic, and specimen sample bags using a single-stream process. Through a locally managed waste-to-energy plant in Atlanta, specimen sample bags are being transformed into usable energy such as gas or electricity, which powers waste disposal vehicles and gets re-distributed back into the local power grid. Miranda is working with our corporate EH&S group to develop a nation-wide recycling program to expand this work. 
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION SUPPLY CHAIN AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP // 62“ Having a purpose 
that is bigger than any one of us—
where we strive every day to positively 
impact society by advancing the 
standard of health care for pets and 
enhancing the safety and quality of 
water and milk—is so rewarding.” 
SHARON UNDERBERG CORPORATE  
VICE PRESIDENT, GENERAL COUNSEL  
AND CORPORATE SECRETARY
Corporate  
Governance, 
Leadership, and Ethics  
 // 63IDEXX is committed to maintaining high ethical standards, corporate governance 
practices and accountability that align with our Purpose and values and 
contribute to the creation of long-term value for all our stakeholders. This commitment extends from our Board of Directors and executive leadership to all our employees, and we believe it is an important contributor to IDEXX’s strong financial performance relative to our similar businesses and companies in the S&P 500 index.
Corporate Governance 
IDEXX is committed to sound corporate 
governance that benefits all our stakeholders, including our shareholders, customers, employees, communities and suppliers. Our shareholders elect our Board, which acts as stewards for IDEXX and our stakeholders. The Board and its committees meet throughout the year and regularly engage with management as part of fulfilling their responsibilities and duties. 
The Board has adopted corporate governance 
policies and practices, including the Corporate 
Governance Guidelines, which provide a framework for effective Board oversight. The Nominating and Governance Committee regularly assesses the corporate governance landscape to identify emerging practices that are aligned with our Purpose and enhance the creation of long-term stakeholder value. With that perspective, the Nominating and Governance Committee reviews our Corporate Governance Guidelines and other corporate governance policies and practices at least annually and, as necessary or advisable, recommends enhancements to the full Board for its approval. As a result, the Board has adopted the following corporate governance practices:
•
 Proxy access rights for our shareholders 
• A majority vote standard in uncontested 
director elections
• Meaningful stock ownership and retention guidelines for our Board and senior executives
•
 Pledging, hedging and short sales of stock prohibited
•
 Clawback policy for performance-based incentive compensation
The full text of the Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of the Audit, Compensation, Finance and Nominating and Governance Committees, and our Code of Ethics  can be found on the 
Corporate Governance section of our website www
.idexx.com. Knowing you are part of a  
purpose-driven organization that 
works globally and collaboratively 
is inspiring. People have never felt 
prouder to be part of IDEXX.”
LILY LU VICE PRESIDENT AND  
DEPUTY GENERAL COUNSEL “
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS  // 64BOARD EFFECTIVENESS THROUGH BOARD REFRESHMENT, DIVERSITY, SELF-ASSESSMENTS 
AND CONTINUING EDUCATION
Our Board is committed to ensuring its 
continued effectiveness through:
• Focusing on Board succession planning 
and refreshment, aligned with our long-term, strategic needs; 
•
 Actively seeking highly qualified Board member candidates, with a commitment to include diverse candidates who represent the full range of gender, race, ethnicity
, and other dimensions of diversity 
of background, thought, and experience.; 
• Engaging in rigorous annual self-assessments of the Board, its committees, and each Board member; and
•
 Making continuing education opportunities available for our Board members on an ongoing basis.
Each year, the Nominating and Governance Committee leverages insights from the Board’s annual review of our long-term strategic plan and related enterprise risk assessment to identify the capabilities, skills, and experiences that it believes would best enable our Board to support our P
urpose, including the 
creation of exceptional long-term value, both presently and in the future. The Nominating and Governance Committee then considers the results of our annual Board self-assessment and evaluates the Board’s composition and each Board member’s skill set to determine whether our Directors’ current capabilities, skills, and experiences align with the long-term needs of our Board. Based on its review, the Nominating and Governance Committee determines whether and when Board refreshment is needed, as well as the capabilities, skills, and experiences that candidates should possess. 
The Nominating and Governance Committee then 
engages in a process to identify candidates to recommend to the Board. Once candidates are recommended to the Board, the Board selects nominees to be voted upon by our shareholders, or if a candidate is recommended to fill a Board vacancy, he or she may be elected by the vote of a majority of the Board members then in office.
We believe that diversity on our Board, including 
but not limited to gender, racial, and ethnic diversity, helps drive innovation and a better understanding of our stakeholders and contributes to Board effectiveness. Accordingly, the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board are focused on ensuring that a wide range of backgrounds and experiences are represented on our Board, including considering the value of diversity of all types in the Board member nomination process, and actively seeking out highly qualified, diverse candidates to include in the pool of potential Board nominees. 
For more information about our practices supporting Board effectiveness and a summary of our Board members’ experiences, 
qualifications, attributes and skills, see our 2020 Proxy Statement.64%are former or 
current CEOswere born and raised outside the U.S.27%
are diverse in terms of race and/or ethnicity18%DIVERSITY IN OUR  
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
As a result of the Board’s focus  
on Board refreshment, diversity,  and overall effectiveness, we are  proud that:
In addition, our Board includes 
members with deep expertise on corporate strategy, sustainability, innovation, human capital management, and cybersecurity.new independent 
members have joined the Board in the past 9 years8
have a disability9%are women 36%
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS  // 65BOARD OVERSIGHT OF STRATEGY AND RISK MANAGEMENT
As part of its responsibilities and duties, our Board 
exercises oversight over our corporate strategy. Management annually presents IDEXX’s long-term business plan and financial strategic plan to the Board for review, discussion, and approval. The plan identifies and assesses the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats to the continuing creation of enduring growth and long-term stakeholder value. The Board acts as a strategic partner in this process, offering insight and additional perspectives, and challenging management’s plan as it deems appropriate.
Management is responsible for our enterprise risk 
assessment and risk management on a day-to-day basis. The Board oversees our risk management activities at the full Board level and through its committees, including by discussing with management the policies and practices utilized in assessing and managing risks, and providing input on those policies and practices. The Board annually reviews strategic risks and opportunities facing IDEXX, including ESG-related risks and opportunities, as well as the results of management’s annual enterprise risk assessment. Other important risk categories are assigned to designated Board committees that report back to the full Board. In general, the committees oversee the following risks:
•
 The Audit Committee oversees risk management 
activities relating to accounting, auditing, internal controls, information system controls, Code of Ethics compliance monitoring, and insurance and tax matters. 
•
 The Compensation Committee oversees risk management activities relating to our compensation policies and practices, organizational risk, and human capital matters (including effective management of executive succession).
•
 The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees risk management activities relating to Board composition, function and succession, and other corporate governance matters. 
•
 The Finance Committee oversees risk management activities relating to investment policy, foreign currency hedging 
activities, and financial instruments. 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND ESG GOVERNANCE, INCLUDING BOARD OVERSIGHT
The Board also oversees our approach to Corporate Responsibility and our material activities and practices regarding environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters, including human capital management, diversity and inclusion, and supply chain and environmental management. Our Director of Global Corporate Responsibility is responsible for advancing our ESG strategy and works in collaboration with a cross-functional team, including Legal, Investor Relations, Operations, Supply Chain, Human Resources and business leaders. Members of this cross-functional team periodically engage with external stakeholders on IDEXX’s ESG initiatives.MEET IDEXX BOARD MEMBER 
REBECCA HENDERSON
Dr. Rebecca Henderson has been on 
our Board since July 2003. Like each of 
our other Directors, Rebecca brings a 
unique set of perspectives, backgrounds, 
capabilities, skills, and experiences that 
enable overall Board effectiveness.
As a Harvard Business School professor 
of general management and strategy, 
Rebecca brings substantial expertise in 
corporate strategy, sustainability, and 
innovation, rooted in her research about 
the role the private sector can play in 
building a more sustainable economy.
Focusing particularly on the relationships 
between organizational purpose, innovation, 
and productivity in high performance 
organizations, her perspectives and 
expertise in these areas have provided 
important guidance for IDEXX’s Corporate 
Responsibility work and initiatives.
 In February 2019, Rebecca was recognized 
by the Financial Times as one of three 
“Outstanding Directors of 2019.” 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS  // 66BOARD OVERSIGHT OF LEGAL 
AND ETHICAL CONDUCT
The Audit Committee exercises 
oversight over our Code of Ethics compliance monitoring, and the full Board exercises oversight over our compliance program for legal and ethical conduct. 
The General Counsel regularly 
updates the Audit Committee of any ethical concerns raised through the IDEXX Ethics Hotline, which is hosted by an independent third party. The General Counsel also evaluates the treatment of potential or actual violations of our Code of Ethics in accordance with our applicable policies and procedures, and generates an annual benchmarking report. The Audit Committee briefs the full Board on these matters. In addition, the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer annually provide the full Board with an update on our corporate compliance program, including our Code of Ethics, our data privacy, anti-bribery and corruption, and trade sanctions compliance programs. BOARD OVERSIGHT OF 
CYBERSECURITY 
Our Board also oversees our 
cybersecurity risk management program. This program is led by our Chief Information Security Officer and his team, overseen by a management committee that includes our Chief Audit Executive and General Counsel. Our program is designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and continued availability of all information owned by, or in the care of, IDEXX. This program also includes a cyber incident response plan that provides controls and procedures for timely and accurate reporting of any material cybersecurity incident to executive leadership and the Board. Our Chief Information Officer and Chief Information Security Officer provide regular updates to the Board regarding cybersecurity risks and our cybersecurity risk management program and activities.
Selected 
accomplishments over the last two years
• IDEXX launched its refreshed Code of Ethics in 2018, along with a Resource Guide which contains a library of relevant policies and procedures, mapped to the topics contained in our Code. 
•
 In 2018, we launched the new IDEXX Ethics Hotline, with a third-party vendor, which represented a significant enhancement in reporting ethics concerns globally
. 
This independent reporting hotline is available 24/7 (in the caller’s local language) and a well-defined process is in place to manage whistleblower reports. Trends are analyzed and reported quarterly to the Audit Committee. 
•
 In 2019, we continued to promote our refreshed Code, including the annual requirement that every global employee acknowledge commitment to our Code within the IDEXX global human resources system, Workday
. 
• We completed our third-party distributor due diligence program—every existing distributor and all new distributors have completed the program, and due diligence is refreshed every three years.
•
 Launch of a Global Whistleblower Policy in 2019
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS  // 67BOARD OVERSIGHT OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
Our executive compensation program consists 
of three key elements, base salary, annual performance-based cash bonus, and equity-based long-term incentives, which in total are targeted at the median of our competitive market. While base salary is fixed, annual performance-based cash bonus and equity-based long-term incentives are variable, at-risk compensation. Variable, at-risk compensation is a higher percentage of total compensation for our senior executives, than for our other employees, because it relates most directly to the creation of long-term value for our shareholders and other stakeholders by providing strong incentives to achieve strategic and financial objectives over time. It also serves as a form of compensation that will motivate and retain executives.
The Compensation Committee oversees the 
executive compensation program, policies, and practices and establishes performance goals for our executive compensation program. Performance goals include both financial performance goals and non-financial performance goals. Non-financial performance goals are intended to support our long-term business objectives and have included execution of key risk management, diversity and inclusion, and Corporate Responsibility 
initiatives. The Compensation Committee also conducts an annual evaluation of the CEO’s performance in consultation with the full Board, determines his or her compensation and reviews, and approves the CEO’s recommendations for compensation for  our other named executive officers and  senior executives, making changes when deemed appropriate. 
For more information on executive compensation  
oversight by the Compensation Committee, see our  2020 Proxy Statement.
Management’s role in assessing and managing risks 
Effective risk assessment and management 
are essential to the long-term sustainability of our business. At IDEXX, risk assessment and management are embedded in our strategic planning and business processes, and our risk management framework provides our senior executives with visibility into risk changes over time, enabling informed risk decision-making that supports long-term value-creation for all our stakeholders. 
Under our risk management framework, primary 
responsibility for monitoring, assessing and implementing mitigation and management activities for specific risks (including new and emerging risks) are assigned to individual teams, with oversight provided by management committees comprised of senior managers and executives in the business and enterprise-wide functions that operate independently of the businesses (such as our Corporate Finance, Human Resources, Internal Audit, Legal, and Compliance teams). In addition, our Chief Audit Executive leads our annual enterprise risk assessment process, in partnership with the Chief Corporate and Securities Counsel, to identify and understand IDEXX’s material risks, ensure that responsibility for new and emerging risks has been assigned internally, and assess related risk management and mitigation strategies, structures, and practices. The results of this annual enterprise risk assessment process are presented to all our senior executives, as well as our Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS  // 68Global ethics and compliance policies and 
programs supporting our Purpose
Everything we do at IDEXX is guided by clear 
ethics policies and programs that are embodied in our Code of Ethics . This Code is centered 
around three commitments to conducting business ethically:
•
 Avoiding conflicts of interest
• Complying with laws and regulations
• Representing IDEXX responsibly in the  
public arena
The Code applies to IDEXX employees, contractors, and the Board of Directors. Every IDEXX employee receives training on the Code of Ethics and ethical business practices, as well as additional training related to their roles at IDEXX, both at time of hire and throughout their career at IDEXX
. To ensure that IDEXX 
employees are aware of what we mean by “ethical business practices,” our corporate training program includes lessons on ethical business practices, how to report ethical concerns without fear of retaliation, and reinforces that following IDEXX policies and procedures is a condition of employment. In addition, employees are required to annually review and acknowledge the commitment to our Code of Ethics within the IDEXX global human resources system, Workday.Our global Compliance team, led by our Chief Compliance Officer who reports to our General Counsel, supports and promotes a culture of ethical conduct based on our Purpose, Guiding 
Principles, and values, and is responsible for building and maintaining a global, effective corporate compliance program that ensures compliance with our Code of Ethics and other applicable policies, standards, and legal and regulatory requirements. Our Compliance team proactively partners with our businesses and other enterprise-wide functions to support effective management of compliance risks and enable sustainable, compliant growth that is aligned with our Purpose and commitment to conduct business with the highest ethical standards. 
In addition, oversight is provided by the 
IDEXX Compliance Committee, comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, General Counsel, and Chief Compliance Officer. This committee meets on a quarterly basis to review compliance-related risks, risk management activities, and programs. HOW OUR CODE OF ETHICS GUIDES US:
• We avoid conflicts of interest
• We interact fairly and transparently 
with our Customers
• We respect and protect the well-being of  
our Employees
• We 
fulfill our responsibilities to our Shareholders
• We represent IDEXX responsibly with the press, 
 
with the public, and in social media
When communicating, 
always remember to comply 
with Our Code of Ethics:
Understand
Take time to understand Our Code of Ethics 
and related guidelines and resources.
Clarify
Ask if we have a question about the Code 
or its application to a particular situation.
Act
Always act in accordance with our Code of 
Ethics and raise any concerns to our manager, 
a member of the Legal, Compliance or 
Human Resources departments, or the IDEXX 
Ethics Hotline when we think something we 
encounter may be contrary to our Code.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS  // 69We all have one common 
responsibility—conducting 
our business with the 
highest ethical standards. 
This common thread 
ensures we will indeed 
create long-term value.” 
ALEXANDRA GAUGLER  
SENIOR DIRECTOR, CHIEF 
COMPLIANCE OFFICER
“GLOBAL REPORTING SUPPORTED THROUGH 
OUR GLOBAL WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY 
AND THE IDEXX ETHICS HOTLINE
We aim to foster a culture where IDEXXers feel comfortable 
speaking up about any potential compliance issues they 
may encounter, without fear of retaliation. 
Our Global Whistleblower Policy supplements our Code 
of Ethics  and clearly describes how any employee may 
report ethical or other concerns. We launched training on 
our strict non-retaliation policy and an updated, innovative 
training to enable our leaders to incorporate ethics into our 
day-to-day leadership, and to properly handle and  
escalate ethics concerns when they arise.
In addition, IDEXX maintains global reporting mechanisms, 
including the IDEXX Ethics Hotline. The IDEXX Ethics 
Hotline is managed by a third-party vendor that provides 
toll-free 24/7 telephone helplines worldwide and web-based 
reporting tools in the reporters’ respective local languages. 
The availability of the IDEXX Ethics Hotline is promoted 
globally via on-line and in-person trainings. Reporters can 
submit their questions and concerns with their names 
or anonymously, subject to local legal restrictions. When 
reporters submit concerns through the IDEXX Ethics Hotline, 
they receive an immediate acknowledgment of receipt and 
are able to track the status of their reported concerns. All 
incoming matters are reported to the Compliance team, 
regardless of how they are reported, and are tracked, 
triaged, and referred for review. The types of reports and 
inquiries received from stakeholders vary and include 
matters regarding human resource issues, business  
integrity and conduct, conflicts of interest, and safety,  
health, and physical environment. IDEXX monitors the  
inquiry trends and concerns reported to inform our  
Code of Ethics communication and training plans. GLOBAL ANTI-BRIBERY AND 
ANTI-CORRUPTION
As a global company committed to conducting 
business in accordance with the highest ethics 
standards, it is important that we comply with the U.S. 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery 
and corruption laws in other countries.
Our Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and 
global anti-bribery and corruption program, which 
are maintained and managed by the Compliance 
team under the leadership of our Chief Compliance 
Officer, are designed to increase awareness 
among our employees, agents, and affiliates about 
applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws and 
to detect and remediate any potential violations 
of such laws. As part of our program, we prohibit 
bribes and facilitation payments, provide operating 
guidelines addressing recordkeeping, approval 
procedures and appropriate behavior, and require 
third-party agents to agree to conduct IDEXX 
business in accordance with our principles.
PRIVACY
We respect the privacy of our employees, 
customers, suppliers, and other business  
partners as part of our routine business 
operations where our business interactions 
involve the processing of personal data.  
Our Privacy Policy applies to the processing 
of personal data by all of the IDEXX group of 
companies. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS  // 70POLICIES, COMMITMENTS AND DISCLOSURES 
Code of Ethics 
Global Whistleblower Policy 
Modern Slavery Statement
Conflict Minerals Policy 
Supplier Code of Conduct
Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption  
PolicyCommitment Statement to 
Diversity and Inclusion
Pay Equity
IDEXX Ethics Hotline  
Task Force on Climate-Relate 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Sustainability Accounting Standard  
Board (SASB) Index
Selected goal for  
2021–2022 
• Code of Ethics training and 
awareness remains a key strategic 
focus area, with particular 
emphasis on our managers to help 
them foster an ethical culture within 
their team—building on the IDEXX 
Leader’s Guide to Living Our Code 
of Ethics. ETHICAL MARKETING
Because our primary business is the manufacture, marketing, and sale of 
companion animal diagnostic products and services, government regulation of 
our marketing, promotional, and pricing practices is generally limited. However, 
IDEXX adheres to all applicable regulations and is committed to marketing 
our products and services ethically by presenting truthful claims regarding the 
capabilities of our products and services that are substantiated, where relevant, 
by peer-reviewed and third-party studies. We are driven by our mission to 
advance the standard of care for companion animals across the globe.
Our global marketing team maintains an internal policy and process for review 
and approval of all promotional materials to ensure that these materials are 
accurate and clear and comply with applicable laws and regulations and our 
commitment to ethical marketing. This policy and process are available internally 
and training is provided to applicable employees. In addition, IDEXX does not 
typically engage in direct-to-consumer marketing or advertising because our 
primary customers are veterinary service providers. Our interactions with veterinary 
service providers and other customers are governed by our Code of Ethics, as 
well as our Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy and program. Our pricing strategy 
is rooted in the value of our differentiated products and services and our desire to 
advance the standard of care for companion animals globally. We regularly review 
and calibrate our pricing strategy.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS  // 71Metrics Summary
The following section provides performance data across topics covered 
in our report.
105+ locations in 25 countries 
More than 9,200 employees on 5 continents
Customers in 175 countries
$2.4 billion total company revenue in 2019 
$133 million in Research and Development in 2019
ENVIRONMENT
100% of CAG SNAP® and most SNAP® dairy products in the U.S. are packed 
in corrugated cartons with approximately 95% recycled content
10+ years—lifecycle of several IDEXX analyzers100% of IDEXX worldwide manufacturing facilities are ISO certified
30,000-gallon  rainwater storage unit installed at World Campus 
50% indoor water use reduction at World Campus since 2017
8% increase  in global square footage of facilities and operations since 2017
5% increase  in tonnes of CO
2 total emissions from 
facilities and operations since 2017
15% decrease  in kWh per square footage average energy 
consumption at facilities and operations since 2017
2% decrease  in million gallons of water usage 
at facilities and operations since 2017
 // 72...SOCIAL 
57% of employees in our global workforce have disclosed their gender as female
28% of employees in global senior leadership are women, representing a 
22% increase  since 2017
26% of global senior executives are women
11% of global senior executives are diverse in terms of race and/or ethnicity
8% of employees in our U.S. workforce have disclosed their race and ethnicity 
as Black
6% of employees in our U.S. workforce have disclosed their race and ethnicity 
as Asian
5% of employees in our U.S. workforce have disclosed their race and ethnicity 
as Hispanic/Latinx
1% of employees in our U.S. workforce have disclosed their race and ethnicity 
as American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/other Pacific Islander, and 
two or more races
76% of employees in our U.S. workforce have disclosed their race and 
ethnicity as White
6% of employees in our U.S. senior leadership are diverse in terms of race 
and/or ethnicity
36% decrease  in recordable Health and Safety incidents since 2017
29,687 training hours in 2019 for Talent Development 
courses available to global employees
0 modern slavery or human rights issues have been reported to us 
via our grievance reporting mechanism or IDEXX Ethics HotlineCreation of global COVID-19 employee safety manuals translated in 23 languages 
83% of employees feel fully engaged in their work at IDEXX
86% of employees indicated they are proud to work at IDEXX
50% less  radiation from IDEXX’s proprietary ImageVue® DR50 
Digital Imaging System compared to computed radiography 
systems while achieving optimal image quality 
24 veterinary schools reached with IDEXX VetLab University Educational Program
IDEXX has donated tens of thousands of SNAP® tests to 
aid in disaster response efforts around the world
More than 2.5 billion people worldwide rely on IDEXX water testsMore than 1.5 billion IDEXX LPD tests have been used worldwide
4x increase  in COVID-19 testing capacity for the state of Maine from due 
to IDEXX’s OPTI
® SARS-CoV-2 RT -PCR test and mobile laboratory 
IDEXXers in 75 locations in 14 countries raised funds for World Wildlife 
Fund, RSPCA, Australian Red Cross, and the Australian Veterinary 
Association Benevolent Fund in response to Australia bushfire crisis 
50,000+ spay/neuter surgeries and preventive care testing 
through #SpayTogether, a partnership with IDEXX, the Banfield 
Foundation, and 25 other national organizations
7,194 employee volunteer hours in 2019
$840,000  corporate contributions to community organizations in 2019
More than $3.8 million corporate contributions to 
community organizations since 2015
GOVERNANCE
8 new independent Board members have joined the Board in the last 9 years
36% of the Board of Directors are women
27% of the Board of Directors are born and raised outside the U.S.18% of our Board members are diverse in terms of race and/or ethnicity
9% of our Board members have a disability
 // 73METRICS SUMMARY ...Addendums
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
We are committed to providing transparency on our climate change risk management. The TCFD has developed voluntary, 
consistent, climate-related financial risk disclosures for use by companies in providing information to stakeholders. We have used 
TCFD recommendations to guide our reporting. 
GOVERNANCE
a) Board Oversight
Our full Board of Directors exercises oversight over our approach to corporate responsibility and our material activities and practices regarding ESG 
matters, including climate change-related issues, and the environmental, supply chain, and reputational risks that issues such as climate change may pose to our business. Our senior managers and executives brief the full Board annually regarding the results of our annual enterprise risk assessment, including risks related to climate change, and annually review our business continuity planning, which is affected by climate change-related issues, with the Audit Committee. Our senior managers and executives will also brief the Board and its committees, as applicable, throughout the year on an ad-hoc basis on issues directly and indirectly related to climate change. 
b) Management role
Our Executive Vice President and General Manager, Point of Care Diagnostics and Global Operations, has executive oversight of our approach to environmental matters, including climate and energy. The executive team regularly discusses product development, innovation, and product life cycle management, including the environmental impacts of current and future products. Our Global Facilities team maintains plans to address environmental matters. 
STRATEGY
a) Climate-related risks and opportunities
While we believe that climate change-related issues pose minimal material risk to our business, we have identified climate-related risks and opportunities that may affect us over the short, medium, and longer term. These include the following:
•
 Physical risks: Extreme weather may impact our operations, as well as our suppliers’ and customers’ operations. W e have taken actions to assess 
potential flooding and other weather
-related risks.
• Regulatory risks: Although we are not a significant user of energy or emitter of greenhouse gases, regulations to limit climate change may lead to 
increases in certain operating and commodity costs.
• Demand opportunity:  Climate change could put pressure on clean water supplies, which may drive increased demand for our water testing products.
 // 74...* Represents emissions for 85% of IDEXX global square footageb) Impact on strategy
Our leadership team is committed to considering the potential risks and opportunities climate change may pose to our business. IDEXX regularly 
evaluates ways to reduce the resource needs of our operations, and the direct and indirect environmental impacts of the supply , manufacturing, use, and 
disposal of our products. We recognize that the effects of climate change will add greater impetus to addressing the world’s environmental challenges. 
c) Climate resilience
Our senior managers and executives monitor changing regulatory requirements and other impacts to our business. W e seek to balance operational 
efficiency with resilience through a diversified manufacturing and supplier base.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Our executive leadership and Board of Directors are focused on effectively managing our strategic and business risks, including climate change-related risks. The process to identify, manage, and integrate climate risk, including impacts to manufacturing and resource-related risks, is embedded in our standard risk management approach. We identify, monitor, assess, and communicate these risks to help inform our operating and investment decisions. 
METRICS
a) Metrics
We plan on undertaking a company-wide carbon footprint assessment in 2021–2022. We track our energy purchases from utilities as part of our energy management program. This figure includes estimated carbon emissions associated with utilities used by our buildings across the globe and captures approximately 85% of our worldwide square footage.
b) Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions
Scope 1 emissions (2019):  8,512 T CO
2*
• Accounts for on-site fuel combustion for space, water, and process heating. Does not account for other sources of Scope 1 emissions such as on-site generators, company
-owned transportation, or refrigerant leakage.
Scope 2 emissions (2019): 13,641 T CO2*
Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions (2019):  22,153 T CO2*
c) Targets
We have not set carbon-related targets yet, but we plan to set them in conjunction with our company-wide carbon footprint assessment in 2021–2022.
 // 75ADDENDUMS...Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index – Medical Equipment and Supplies
All data is global and reflects metrics for the year ended December 31, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE LOCATION/RESPONSE
AFFORDABILITY AND PRICING
Ratio of weighted average rate of net price 
increases (for all products) to the annual increase in the U.S. Consumer Price IndexHC-MS-240a.1
For our Pricing strategy. please refer to the Ethical Marketing  section in our 2020 
Corporate Responsibility report.
Description of how price information for each product is disclosed to customers or to their agentsHC-MS-240a.2 IDEXX products and services pricing guides are provided to IDEXX’s direct and 
wholesale customers electronically or by mail. Product and services catalogs and pricing information can also be obtained by contacting an IDEXX sales representative and is accessible through IDEXX’s on-line ordering platforms.
PRODUCT SAFETY
Number of recalls issued, total units recalled HC-MS-250a.1 Not disclosed
List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch 
Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products databaseHC-MS-250a.2 IDEXX’s companion animal group; livestock, poultry and dairy, and water products are 
not subject to FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database.
OPTI Medical products are subject to FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts, and none of 
OPTI Medical products were so listed.
Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience databaseHC-MS-250a.3 IDEXX’s companion animal group; livestock, poultry and dairy, and water products are 
not subject to FDA regulations.
OPTI Medical products are subject to FDA regulations, and no fatalities related to 
such products are reported.
Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeHC-MS-250a.4 IDEXX’s companion animal group; livestock, poultry and dairy, and water products are 
not subject to FDA regulations.
OPTI Medical is subject to FDA cGMP regulations, and there are no such FDA 
enforcement actions.
 // 76ADDENDUMS...ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE LOCATION/RESPONSE
ETHICAL MARKETING
Total amount of monetary losses as a result 
of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claimsHC-MS-270a.1 None
Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of productsHC-MS-270a.2
Off-label use is not relevant to any of IDEXX’s products or services.
We produce and deliver safe and effective products and services that people trust. 
Each country in which we do business has specific regulations designed to ensure our products and services are safe and used appropriately. We comply with the licenses and approvals we obtain from government agencies to promote, sell and import our products and services.
For additional information, please see the Ethical Marketing  section of our 2020 
Corporate Responsibility Report.
PRODUCT DESIGN AND LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
Discussion of process to assess and 
manage environmental and human health considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet demand for sustainable productsHC-MS-410a.1
New Product Development cycles includes reviews of global regulations related to the product type in development, including review of raw substances and mixtures used for environmental or human health impacts, or regional electrical safety or product composition laws for analyzers or other electrical products under development. Post product launch, IDEXX monitors changing global regulations related to environmental or human health considerations that may impact existing product on the market. 
For additional information, please see the Product Stewardship  section of our 2020 
Corporate Responsibility Report.
Total amount of products accepted for 
takeback and reused, recycled, or donated, broken down by: (1) devices and equipment and (2) suppliesHC-MS-410a.2 IDEXX offers a ‘single swap’ service model that ensures our customers are not without 
critical product. IDEXX repairs 28 products* globally—including IDEXX VetLab
® 
analyzers and parts are reused where possible. In addition, IDEXX supports recycling programs available to European Union customers. For 2019, IDEXX processed over 8,800 electrical product returns.
 // 77ADDENDUMS...ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE LOCATION/RESPONSE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and 
(2) Tier I suppliers’ facilities participating in third-party audit programs for manufacturing and product qualityHC-MS-430a.1 IDEXX facilities do not currently participate in third-party audit programs. IDEXX 
performs quality audits of Tier 1 suppliers to ensure product quality and safety, as well as ability to meet demand.
Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the distribution chain.HC-MS-430a.2 We are in the process of mapping our supply chain to strengthen traceability within 
our distribution chain. We have invested in supply chain risk management software to help manage suppliers and increase upstream visibility.
Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materialsHC-MS-430a.3
Please refer to IDEXX’s Conflict Minerals Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct.
BUSINESS ETHICS
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with bribery or corruptionHC-MS-510a.1 None
Description of code of ethics governing interactions with healthcare professionalsHC-MS-510a.2
Please refer to the IDEXX Code of Ethics.
ACTIVITY METRICS
Number of units sold by product category HC-MS-000.A Undisclosed
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for 
(1) executive management(2) non-executive management (3) professionals (4) all other employees.SASB FN-AC-
330a
Please see the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  section of our 2020 Corporate 
Responsibility Report.
 // 78ADDENDUMS...FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This Report contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management’s current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. The forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “expects,” and may include statements regarding goals. No forward-looking statements can be guaranteed, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements should be evaluated together with the many uncertainties that affect our business and operations, particularly those mentioned in the risk factors and cautionary statements in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. IDEXX Laboratories, Inc.
One IDEXX Drive
Westbrook, Maine 04092 
United States
1-207-556-0300
1-800-548-6733
Fax: 1-207-556-4346IDEXX Purpose 
To be a great company that creates exceptional long-term value 
for our customers, employees, and shareholders by enhancing the health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock. 
IDEXX Guiding Principles 
•
 Achieve and sustain market leadership 
• Exceed the expectations of our customers 
• Empower and reward our employees 
• Innovate with intelligence 
• Cultivate entrepreneurial spirit 
• Contribute to our communities 