Corporate Responsibility Report
8,000 people
one global purpose2Corporate Responsibility Report3To be a great company 
that creates exceptional long-term value  
for our customers, employees, and shareholders 
by enhancing the health and well-being  
of pets, people, and livestock.Our PurposeWelcome to our Corporate Responsibility (CR)  
report. In this report, you will see how we are  
strong believers in how our business advances  
the human condition, while also advancing how  
we are doing business in a way that is socially  
and environmentally responsible. 
The work we do makes a positive impact in the  
world in part by supporting the human-animal  
bond through advances in pet health care.  
Pets can’t tell you how they feel, so bloodwork  
results help give pets a voice in their healthcare.  
Our innovations in pet care diagnostics expand  
their vocabulary.
Corporate responsibility is embedded into our Purpose and our Guiding 
Principles, which we refined in the year 2010 as a result of a deep company 
introspection of what makes IDEXX who we are and aspire to be. They have 
stood the test of time, and I am deeply proud of them.
I am so pleased to share in this report an update on the work our employees 
are doing to help our communities, protect the environment, nurture our 
people, and grow our business. Sharing provides visibility into that work, 
motivating IDEXX employees across the globe to continue in this good work.In addition, because people want to work for a responsible 
company that they can be proud of, we believe it’s important 
to show what IDEXX is all about, from our innovative culture, 
to the way we support the health and well-being of our 
employees and their families, to community volunteering, 
and to how we design our products and even our buildings. 
These topics are a big part of our report.
I’d like to thank our employees, customers, vendors and 
other partners for contributing to the good we’ve done to 
date. I look forward to IDEXX finding ways on how we can 
advance our ideals in corporate responsibility, consistent 
with our Purpose.
We invite you to follow us on our journey.
Jonathan W. Ayers
Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerA Message from Jon Ayers, IDEXX CEO
IDEXX seeks to be a good citizen of the communities in which  
we do business by contributing to their health and quality of life,
by conducting ourselves with the highest ethical standards and 
by being environmentally responsible.
4Our Six  Guiding Principles:
•  Achieve and sustain market leadership
•  Exceed the expectations of our customers
•  Empower and reward our employees
•  Innovate with intelligence
•  Cultivate entrepreneurial spirit
•  Contribute to our communitiesWorld Headquarters
Westbrook, Maine
1/3 of total employees
North America
5,628
Europe
1,842
Latin America
130
Asia Pacific
514
Africa Middle East
56•
•••
••••
•
•••
••
••••
•
••••
••••••••••••••••••••• ••
•••
5IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. is a member of the S&P 500® Index and is a 
leader in pet healthcare innovation, serving veterinarians around the 
world with a broad range of diagnostic and information technology- 
based products and services. Our common stock is quoted on the 
NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol IDXX.
IDEXX is also a worldwide leader in providing diagnostic tests and 
information for livestock and poultry, and testing for the quality and 
safety of water and milk. Headquartered in Maine, USA, IDEXX employs 
8,170 people and offers products to customers
in over 175 countries.
 For the last eight years, through the end of 2018, we will have about 
doubled the company’s revenues and grown our number of employees 
by 3,350. We are proud of our business performance and the impact we 
have made through our customers, while increasing the number of jobs 
and career growth opportunities for our employees. This performance 
fuels our continued investment in the long-term health of the company 
while serving the communities where we operate.
To learn more about IDEXX business and financial performance,  
see www.idexx.com/en/about-idexx/ .About IDEXXIDEXX has 8,170 employees worldwide committed to our purpose.
As of September 2018This strong human-animal bond not only fuels our purpose at IDEXX, its 
importance to the human condition is supported by extensive research. Below 
are just a few examples. 
Mental Health:  74% of pet owners reported mental health improvements  
from having a pet.
Cardiovascular Health:  Having a cat improves the relative likelihood of 
recovery and survival after a heart attack by 37%. Dogs decrease blood 
pressure and lower cholesterol. 
Longevity: There is a clear correlation between dog ownership and longer life.
Healthy Aging: In a trial of nursing home residents in Australia, individuals 
who spent time with a dog reported less fatigue, tension, confusion and 
depression.
Much of the research about the bond between people and pets is done by the 
Human Animal Bond Research Institute (HABRI) at www.habri.org. IDEXX is 
proud to have sponsored HABRI. People’s love of their pets is an important factor driving our company’s growth. 
People around the world want their pets to live longer and healthier lives—and 
are turning to veterinarians and diagnostic testing to determine not only what 
is causing a pet to be sick, but also how to keep their pets healthy.
At IDEXX, we’re dedicated to developing ways to help pets live longer and 
healthier lives. In preventive care visits for adult pets, the addition of IDEXX 
symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA) identified clinically significant changes in 
pet health 70% more often than traditional blood work panels. IDEXX Fecal Dx 
antigen identifies twice as many infections compared to traditional methods. 
These are just two examples of the way IDEXX innovation leads to earlier 
diagnosis and intervention, prolonging the lives of pets so they can thrive as 
happy healthy family members.
Demographic trends show the pet bond growing even stronger among younger 
generations—a demographic that increasingly represents both our employees 
and our customers. We are dedicated to continuing to develop new ways to 
keep pets healthy and their families happy.What We Do Matters
98%
95%of pet owners feel that their pet is an 
important part of their family.
of pet owners say they couldn’t imagine 
giving up their pet for any reason.
6Ask IDEXX employees how they feel about their work, 
and you’ll quickly learn what matters most to them –  
the work we do at IDEXX makes a positive impact
in the world. A significant percentage of our employees 
work to improve the health of animals and know that
the bond between people and pets is invaluable.7
Rebecca M. Henderson, PhD
John and Natty McArthur  
Harvard University Professor
IDEXX Board of Directors
This report is informed by engagement with stakeholders both within 
and outside of IDEXX. We used research on our sector from both the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) frameworks, peer benchmarking and an internal 
process with key leaders to guide our assessment of key topics covered 
in the report.
These leaders include IDEXX Board member Rebecca M. Henderson, 
PhD. Dr. Henderson has been the John and Natty McArthur University 
Professor at Harvard University since 2011 and is the former Co-Director 
of the Business and Environment Initiative at Harvard Business School. 
She brings substantial expertise in corporate sustainability, governance 
issues and corporate strategy to the IDEXX Board.
Data in this report relates to our wholly-owned facilities and subsidiaries 
worldwide unless otherwise noted. Calculation methodologies are noted 
where relevant. The data reporting period is January through December 
of 2017, unless otherwise noted.
For questions or comments about this report, please contact:  
Corporateresponsibility@idexx.comHow We Developed this Report
“Sustainable change is no longer limited to 
‘green’ companies. It’s incumbent on every 
business, every organization to maximize 
its efficiency and minimize its environmental 
impact. I’m very proud of the work that IDEXX is 
doing in this area and fortunate that my position 
on the company’s board of directors enables 
me to lend my experience and expertise to 
help guide IDEXX’s expanding corporate 
sustainability efforts.”8We treat each other with trust, respect, and 
honesty, placing a high value on accessibility, 
collaboration, open communication, clear decision 
making, and individual accountability. 
We provide our employees with diverse 
opportunities to learn, contribute, and benefit, 
based on merit, results, and values.Empower  
and Reward  
our EmployeesOur high percentage of engaged employees is  
a reflection of our unique culture. 
Employee engagement has been shown to result in happier employees, greater 
employee satisfaction, higher retention, improved productivity and business 
performance—even better home lives.
At IDEXX, our most effective employee engagement tool is our unique culture. 
We strive to make IDEXX a place where meaningful work is plentiful, a place 
where people like to work.
We engage with employees on a regular basis through both our annual 
engagement survey and shorter pulse surveys to determine our employees’ 
feelings about working at IDEXX. We are pleased to share some results from  
the most recent employee engagement survey conducted in March 2018: Defining the Value of Working at IDEXX
At IDEXX the work we do has a meaningful, global impact on animal and 
human well-being. We care deeply about animals and our connection to 
them. This passion fuels our desire to innovate and grow. With growth comes 
opportunity—to learn, to make a difference, to succeed.
We recently conducted comprehensive research with IDEXX employees to 
help us distill what is unique about working at IDEXX. There are the three 
components that define our Employee Value Proposition—a synopsis of why 
employees continue to work at IDEXX.
Purpose
We support the well-being of more than 40 million pets and 2.5 
billion people each year. Each employee’s work here matters.
Innovation
We’re responsible for more than 80% of the identifiable companion 
animal diagnostic industry investment in research and development. 
By bringing new ideas to life, IDEXX employees help our customers 
improve the well-being of animals and people around the world.
Opportunity
Through meaningful work and challenging assignments comes 
professional and personal growth. In that same survey our employees described our culture as collaborative, 
innovative and friendly. Feedback from employees on areas to improve 
included increasing collaboration even further and enhancing inclusion and 
communication. Across the organization, there is an action planning process 
that addresses our employees’ feedback so we can continuously improve.Employee Engagement
A Place of Purpose, Innovation and Opportunity
1.
2.
3.
9Employees who feel fully engaged in their work at IDEXX  
Employees who indicated they are proud to work at IDEXX 
Would recommend IDEXX as a great place to work to a friend83%
88%
81%At IDEXX, we believe that including individuals with different perspectives 
and backgrounds is not only the right thing to do, but also something that 
enhances our innovative and collaborative spirit, which has been the engine 
driving our performance and growth. We are an equal opportunity employer 
and we seek to recruit, develop and retain the most talented people from a 
diverse candidate pool.
Inclusion and Diversity Council 
In 2017, our Inclusion and Diversity Council, whose members include 
diverse IDEXXers from around the world and throughout the organization, 
formed with a mission “to cultivate a culture of inclusion that values and 
demonstrates diversity, strengthening our Guiding Principles and helping 
us achieve our shared Purpose.” The Council has been creating an inclusion 
awareness campaign plan and gathering feedback from employees about 
how they feel about IDEXX in our annual employee engagement survey. 
Gender Diversity at IDEXX 
IDEXX’s customer base is predominantly women, and women are well-
represented at IDEXX, with a workforce that’s 58% female and 42% male as  
of May 2018. However, women comprise 23% of senior leadership at Director 
and above levels. Our goal is to increase the percentage of women in senior 
leadership positions. 
We believe in compensation programs that are designed to avoid pay 
disparity based on personal characteristics such as gender or race. 
We’re also working to establish a gender-diverse Board of Directors,  
with women currently making up three out of eight members of the Board,  
as of November 2018. We’re pleased that this work is receiving recognition 
(see sidebar).  IDEXX celebrates inclusion and diversity by 
creating an environment where people can  
thrive and succeed.Inclusion and Diversity IDEXX recognized by WomenInc.
IDEXX board members, Dr. Rebecca M. Henderson,  
Ms. M. Anne Szostak, and Dr. Sophie V. Vandebroek have 
been recognized by WomenInc. magazine as one of its 2018 
Most Influential Corporate Board Directors. 
In announcing the recognition, WomenInc. said, “We are 
inspired by their achievements and look forward to sharing  
     that inspiration with our readers.”
 
In addition, Rebecca, Anne and Sophie, each have significant accomplishments 
to celebrate, as noted below:
Rebecca M. Henderson, PhD M. Anne Szostak Sophie V. Vandebroek, PhD
Sophie was honored with 
Xerox Diversity Caucus 
Groups’ first-ever Award 
of Distinction: Lifetime 
Diversity Leadership 
Recognition. The award 
recognizes Sophie’s 
demonstrated excellence in 
leadership and continuing 
advocacy on behalf of 
diversity.Anne has been named 
among the most 
influential people in the 
boardroom community 
by NACD Directorship 
magazine. As part of the 
NACD Directorship 100, 
Anne has been recognized 
as influencing how board 
work is done.Rebecca was named a co-
winner of the Page Prize 
for Sustainability Issues in 
Business by the Darla Moore 
School of Business at the 
University of South Carolina 
for her MBA elective course 
Reimagining Capitalism. The 
Page Prize supports efforts 
to substantially upgrade 
sustainability courses in the 
curricula of business schools 
internationally.
IDEXX is a Visionary Sponsor for the 
Olympia Snowe Women’s Leadership 
Institute founded by former U.S. 
Senator from Maine, Olympia Snowe. 
The institute invests in young women to ensure that there will be more 
leaders like Senator Snowe in the future—young women who have been 
encouraged, supported and inspired to dream big and reach high in all of 
life’s endeavors.
10We’re working to foster a growth mindset  
across IDEXX. 
We offer IDEXX employees a number of ways to improve their skills,  
from specific functional, compliance, and cyber security training to  
skills that apply to any job function. 
Training available to IDEXX employees includes Effective Communication, 
Improving Productivity, Working in Teams, and Problem Solving.
We have invested in a global learning management system that will 
significantly improve the learning experience for all employees around 
the world.  The new system will launch in Q1 2019 and will initially 
provide over 60 training opportunities to help our employees learn  
and grow.
43,200+ hours   
Hours of training registered on our 
learning management system in 2017.
11Learning and Development
Our Learning and Development solutions address the needs of employees  
at all levels of IDEXX:  
Individually TeamsSales and 
Customer 
SupportLeadership 
Effectiveness
LEVELAll IDEXX 
employeesAll IDEXX 
EmployeesIDEXX Sales, 
Customer Support 
and Sales Support 
ProfessionalsAll People Leaders  
at IDEXX
GOALDevelop self-
awareness 
and individual 
skills to drive 
collaboration, 
communication, 
efficiency and 
innovation .Work in teams 
to develop team 
purpose and 
vision, work as 
a cohesive unit, 
and enhance 
collaboration.Utilize personal 
Insights to 
enhance sales 
relationships 
and have better 
relationships with 
customers.Build critical 
leadership skills 
for new leaders, 
established front 
line leaders and 
business unit 
leaders.IDEXX Learning and Development SolutionsOur well-being strategy is focused on creating a 
global community through awareness, education 
and, empowerment. 
We support our employees’ journeys toward optimal health and wellness  
by investing in benefits, programs, and incentives that form the four pillars  
of our wellness strategy: Physical Health, Emotional Resilience, Social 
Connectedness, and Financial Health.
We encourage employee awareness of health risks; educate about behavior 
change; and empower employees to act by putting the right tools in place. 
Wellness and Fitness Center 
At IDEXX, these tools include a comprehensive wellness and fitness center  
at our Westbrook location, where one-third of our employees work. 
Employees can meet with a life coach or dietitian and receive one-to-one 
programming with an exercise specialist. The facility also includes an urgent 
care clinic and physical therapy.
It’s all part of our comprehensive approach to health and our emphasis  
on well-being.Health and Well-BeingOur aspiration:  A globally engaged community of employees and families 
supported by IDEXX to live optimally healthy lives.
Well-Being Strategic Imperatives
• Tools to understand personal health risks and  
take action
• Ergonomic work environments
• Nutrition education and access
• Awareness about stress, anxiety and depression
• Resources to help employees through difficult  
life situations
• Supportive work environment/dedicated quiet space
• Opportunities to build communities where IDEXXers 
can join colleagues with similar interests and skills
• Connections to local communities for civic involvement, 
volunteering and networking
• Financial education and tools for all stages of life
• Significant investment in our US employee financial well-
being by increasing the 401K match from 4% to 5% in 2017
• Cybersecurity training to protect personal assets
Physical Health 
Emotional Resilience
Social Connectedness
Financial Health
12Local Wellness Councils
In many locations around the world, we facilitate fitness center membership 
and have local wellness councils made up of passionate employees who love  
to engage their colleagues in different wellness activities. 
As an example, in our Hoofddorp, Netherlands office, the wellness council 
created a bring your pet to work day. Pets are linked to wellness because 
studies show that pets can help lower blood pressure, lower risk of heart 
disease, prevent allergies in children, reduce stress levels, decrease anxiety  
and depression, strengthen immune systems, and increase social interaction. 
The bring your pet to work day was so successful that a new ongoing pet 
program was launched called Pets at Work—PAWS. It provides employees  
with guidelines for taking their dog to work at IDEXX.56%
Westbrook Maine employees 
enrolled in the IDEXX Fitness 
Center as of June 2018
Guidelines for taking your dog to work at IDEXX
INTRODUCTION 
IDEXX is dedicated to enhancing the well-being of pets, people and livestock 
with our people working each day to bring our Purpose to life. One way  
IDEXX can do this for our employees is with the introduction of such  
initiatives as our Pets at Work (PAWs) program. PAWs welcomes  
responsible dog owners to bring their dogs into our Hoofddorp Scorpius  
location as a way to reduce stress and strengthen relationships with our  
colleagues. Our PAWs program will be successful thanks to open  
communication and clear guidelines that are outlined below.
RESPONSIBLE DOG OWNERSHIP—DEFINED 
Responsible dog ownership: Prior to bringing your dog on site, for the overall  
well-being of the site, it is important that the dog owner assures the following:
• All vaccinations, including bordetellosis, are complete and current.
• Parasite control is being done on a routine basis and the dog is free of ticks and fleas.
• The dog has no recent history (6 months) of infection or ringworm.
Designated areas on site: Dogs are welcome in the owner’s office or cubicle, provided there is some form of 
appropriate containment in place. The use of a regular leash is required while 
       walking the dog and when the dog is in common areas and open spaces.
For safety and hygiene purposes, dogs are not allowed on the ground 
floor, in the toilets, showers, pantries, data centre (IT) and the 
warehouse and Instrument Service Department.
KEEPING THE NEEDS OF COLLEAGUES TOP OF MIND
IDEXX is convinced of the positive benefits that a socialized and well 
     behaved dog may provide to the work environment, however it is 
important that the well-being of all our employees is not adversely impacted. 
              Employees with dog allergies or who are uncomfortable around dogs 
          should notify the Wellness Committee and accommodations will be made 
     for them. 
You should consider bringing your dog to work if your furry friend is:
• A relaxed, quiet dog who can handle being in a work environment with lots of people and other dogs. If your
dog has bitten or been aggressive in the past, or barks or is often vocal, please keep them at home.
• Healthy—a sick dog must stay at home
•  House-trained
• Not active during mating season
Other things to keep in mind:
• You are welcome to bring up to two dogs to work at a time.
• The Wellness Committee may ask the dog owner to remove a dog that becomes aggressive, destructive  or
distracting to colleagues.
• Colleagues who bring their dog to work are expected to utilize their designated lunch and break periods to
tend to walking or caring for the needs of their dog.
•Should an incident happen, the dog owner is expected to clean up.
This policy may be adopted or revoked at any time at the sole discretion of the responsible vice president and/or CEO. All full-time and part-time 
regular staff of IDEXX Europe BV with the exception of employees of the Operations Building (especially employees in areas of the Warehouse 
and Instrument Service Department where pets are prohibited), are covered under these guidelines.IDEXX was one of only three 
companies that received an 
honorable mention for the  
C. Everett Koop National Health 
award in 2017.IDEXX has also been 
awarded 2018 Gold status 
by National Business Group 
on Health.
13
Workplace Health and Safety 
Safety at IDEXX starts with an overarching safety culture that is put 
into practice through engagement, communications, ownership, and 
monitoring and recognizing performance. This graphic shows the 
concept behind our approach to workplace safety.Decreasing Safety Incidents 
We are making good progress against our health and safety goals.  
Compared to the first two quarters of 2017, in the first two quarters of 2018, 
North America operations saw a 91% reduction in the Lost Time Incident 
rate. We also show a 57% reduction in the North America Restricted Cases 
Rate. European Reference Labs and our Distribution Centers have Lost Time 
Rates of zero as of Q2 2018. 
 
We implemented several process improvements during 2017 that helped 
lead to these reductions, including safety management systems, training 
materials, regulatory compliance, data management, and targeted initiatives 
to address injury trends. There is still more work to be done to achieve all of 
our health and safety goals. 
Our global facility project management team provides centralized 
management of our safety progress. The team meets weekly to review 
safety, sustainability, and environmental impacts. We currently track all 
accidents and other safety incidents and use this information to develop 
programs that focus on risk to our employees. 
We offer ongoing opportunities for ergonomic assessments and 
sit stand desks in many locations, and programs that encourage 
employees to get up and move, such as communal stretch breaks  
and communal waste baskets We’re building a culture of safety at IDEXX 
facilities around the world.
14Keeping the Workplace Safe
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.0
1.6
0.33.8
0.73.1
1.0
0.3
0.00.21.6
0.9
Restricted Cases Rate Lost Days Away Rate Lost Time Rate Recordable Rate2018 Goals 2018 2017Engagement
Safety Principles and GuidelinesCommunication   Ownership SustainabilitySafety Culture
North America Workplace Safety Metrics*
*Incident Rate = # incidents per 200,000 hours worked15We are citizens of the global community in 
which we do business, and we contribute to 
the health, quality of life and sustainability of 
this community through both the pursuit of our 
Purpose and a commitment to our environmental 
responsibilities.Contribute to  
Our CommunitiesCharitable Giving is a fundamental component of our community involve -
ment. With a focus on Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) 
education, workforce readiness, and animal-related causes, we strive to 
uphold our company purpose of enhancing the health and well-being of 
pets and people.
Therapy Dog Program 
For example, we have been supporting the Maine Medical Hoyt Therapy Dog 
Program. A visit from a therapy dog and its handler brings the calm and joy 
of connecting with a loving animal. These teams are trained volunteers—
Maine Medical Center therapy dogs go through training, observation, and 
health screenings. They provide affection and comfort to people who are 
patients at the hospital.We made contributions  totaling $652,647   
to 35 local non-profit organizations located near our Maine headquarters.
Over 2015 through 2017, our average global sponsorships and contributions 
totaled $2,505,870 .In 2017, total IDEXX contributions and  
sponsorships exceeded $2.6 million globally.  
16Charitable Giving
Total Global Sponsorships and Contributions
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017$3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0USD (000)
Sponsorships Contributions United WayThe United Way is a world-wide charitable organization that provides funding
for a wide variety of non-profit organizations that focus on education, health 
and financial security as “the building blocks of a good quality of life and a 
strong community.”
That’s why IDEXX has partnered with the United Way of Greater Portland
to raise money through employee donations for decades.
Helping kick off the annual United Way campaign
For the last two years, IDEXX has participated in the United Way  
Campaign kick-off event held in downtown Portland. 
Multiple local companies compete in a sculpture contest, with canned  
and other non-perishable foods serving as the building materials.
The Greater Portland United Way kickoff rally is the largest one-day 
food drive in the state of Maine, collecting over 16,000 meals-worth  
of food.United Way Campaign Performance since 2010
 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017$600
500
400
300
200
100
0USD (000)
Employee and Alumni Giving CEO Gift Fundraisers Corporate MatchEmployee Giving
17In 2017, IDEXX contributed  
approximately
from employee donations, 
a corporate match, a CEO 
gift, and additional  
fundraisers.$550,000   
We’re proud that IDEXX employees contribute  
to the communities where they live.A Way for Employees to GiVE Back.
We established the IDEXX GiVE (Global IDEXX Volunteer Efforts) Program 
in 2011 to support employees in their philanthropic pursuits outside 
of IDEXX. Employees receive up to 16 paid hours per calendar year 
of Volunteer Time Off (VTO) to support community involvement and 
increase our positive impact around the world. 
Giving back to our communities is a critical aspect of responsible 
corporate citizenship. IDEXX employees worldwide have logged nearly 
37,000 hours of volunteer time through their participation in the GiVE 
program from 2015 through 2017.
Karen Lavigne
IDEXX Scientist“The GiVE program is a win-win for the community and for 
IDEXX. The community receives much needed help while 
IDEXXERs get the opportunity to take part in a shared 
experience with colleagues outside of work. It feels good to 
volunteer and that feeling can be lasting and life-changing.”Chandra Leister
Marketing Manager“I really appreciate how IDEXX encourages employees to 
volunteer within the community. Being able to take time off of 
work to volunteer for local non-profits that mean a lot to me is 
really great, and helps me recharge!”
18The IDEXX GiVE Program12,517 hours   
  IDEXX employees donated through  
  the GiVE program in 2017.Community ImpactIDEXX employees donate their time in a number of ways, including: 
Adopt-A-Garden: Employees plant and maintain a garden on our 
Westbrook campus and donate the produce to Harvest for Hunger.
Patriot Corner: A community of employees that supports IDEXX 
veterans and family members through programs and events. 
My Place Teen Center: Provides free youth development programs 
and daily meals to disadvantaged youths in Westbrook. In addition 
to volunteering for programs, our onsite chefs in Maine cook here 
once a week. 
Job shadowing: Each year, through our partnership with Junior 
Achievement, we host two job shadow days for local seventh 
graders. In 2017, more than 60 students were paired with IDEXX 
mentors to shadow in a variety of IDEXX professions.
STEM and Career Fairs:  IDEXX employees help students  
understand STEM career opportunities.
Animal Shelters: Many IDEXX employees use their two annual 
Volunteer Days to support local animal shelters. In the Netherlands 
this is done through a partnership with an organization called the 
Dierenbescherming. Employees help clean the shelter, walk the 
dogs, make small repairs, and help in other ways.
Trailwalker Challenge: For three straight years, IDEXX Japan has 
taken up the Trailwalker Challenge, hiking 50-100 kilometers  
up and down Mt. Adatara (in Fukushima Prefecture, Japan).  
The team helped raise more than two million yen for the 
communities of Fukushima and Kumamoto.  De Boerenzwaluw Animal Farm: For the second year the  
Instrument Services team from the Netherlands performed 
vital maintenance on this nonprofit working farm in Hoofddorp, 
Netherlands. 
Saving the Oceans: A group of IDEXXers from Hoofddorp, 
Netherlands, used their GiVE day to volunteer for Plastic Whale,  
the first professional plastic fishing company in the world.  
The company offers plastic fishing tours on its fleet of  
seven boats, all made from plastic bottles fished out of  
Amsterdam canals. 
19Other Ways Employees Volunteer
Support During Disasters
Providing relief during hurricanes, earthquakes 
and other disasters.
In 2017, we continued our long history of responding to  
international crises:
•  We donated pet diagnostic products to relief efforts around the world.
•  We donated to the Kansas Livestock Association to help cattle  
farmers in the wake of devastating wildfires in the state.
•  We donated water testing product, equipment and support after  
a number of natural disasters, including:
$63,855  in free  
SNAP® products to disaster relief 
efforts following Hurricanes Irma, 
Harvey and Maria.
Event Year
Japan tsunami 2004
Hurricane Katrina, USA 2005
Sichuan Province earthquake 2008
New Zealand earthquake 2011
Australia floods 2011
Japan earthquake 2011
Super Storm Sandy, USA 2012
Indonesia floods 2013
Typhoon Haiyan - Philippines 2015
South Carolina flooding, USA 2015
Hurricane Harvey -Texas, USA 2017
Hurricane Irma - Florida, USA 2017
Hurricane Maria - Puerto Rico 2017
Hurricane Florence - North Carolina, USA 2018
20Introducing the IDEXX Water 
Humanitarian Award
In 2018, we teamed up with the 
Brightwater Foundation, which 
seeks to eliminate waterborne 
disease worldwide, to launch the 
IDEXX Water Humanitarian Award. 
Brightwater’s mission is to replicate 
the work of Dr. Robert Metcalf, who 
has used a portable microbiology lab 
to significantly reduce the incidence 
of waterborne disease in the lower 
Nyakach Region of Kenya, Africa. 
Brightwater is targeting underdeveloped regions in Africa, Latin 
America, and Asia Pacific to reduce waterborne disease with  
Dr. Metcalf’s proven approach of TEACH, TEST, and TREAT. And so  
it is only fitting that our inaugural IDEXX Water Humanitarian Award 
was awarded to Dr. Metcalf, who has devoted his life to providing 
people across the globe with clean water.
Water Keeper Alliance
In 2016, IDEXX Water formed a strategic partnership with the  
Water Keeper Alliance, a global organization dedicated to keeping 
rivers, lakes, and waterways free from pollution. 
In 2017, IDEXX also donated $8,000 to sponsor theswimguide.org ,  
an online resource developed by the Lake Ontario Water Keeper 
Alliance. The website provides water quality data for bodies of water 
in the U.S., Canada and New Zealand, with additional countries to be 
added. Anyone can use the tool to find local bodies of water that are 
safe for fishing and swimming. One million people have accessed the 
site to date.Helping Keep Waters Clean
21IDEXX Water is a global leader in 
water microbiology, providing tests 
that ensure the safety of drinking 
water and other water supplies for
over two billion people in 
100 countries worldwide.In the 2017 program, over 40 pets found their  
loving forever homes with IDEXX employees.
IDEXX Shelter Savings
Through our IDEXX shelter savings program, animal shelter and rescue 
organizations receive discounts on some of their most-used testing products. 
Pet Adoption
When you adopt, you often save an animal’s life and also open up valuable 
shelter space for another homeless pet in need. 
To encourage pet rescue in Maine, each year IDEXX partners with several 
Greater Portland, Maine animal shelters for a summer-long Pet Adoption 
Assistance program, featuring adoption kickoff events at our Synergy  
and Experience centers. During this time, IDEXX covers pet adoption fees  
for employees.Commitment to Animal Rescue
IDEXX has saved shelters 
$10+ million
 since 2010
22We’re proud of the contributions IDEXX has made to the Maine economy—
investments that totaled approximately $813 million in 2016 alone, based on 
estimates in an economic impact report commissioned by IDEXX. 
That’s in addition to our:
• Operational activitie s
• Investments in buildings, equipment and software
• Indirect effects on local companies that receive some portion of  
operational and investment spending
• Corporate donations for charitable purposes, voluntary cash  
contributions, and time commitments of IDEXX employees
• The vital investment in human capital made by providing high-paying 
quality jobs both for Maine residents and for the many highly skilled new 
employees we attract to Maine’s economyPromoting a Healthy Economy 
earning pay and benefits of
and paying state and local taxes of over In 2016, we supported the full-time  
equivalent of over5,700 jobs
$385 million
$37 million
23Maine is one of our homes, and we’re working  
to keep it strong.A Hands-on Approach to Boosting the Economy
We’re working to promote a robust economy at a grassroots level in our 
local communities and throughout Maine. For example, we support two key 
programs aimed at creating jobs and growing Maine’s business community: 
Focus Maine and Startup Maine.
FocusMaine  is a nonprofit organization whose 
mission is to strengthen opportunity in Maine 
by accelerating the creation of jobs in three 
signature industries: aquaculture, agriculture, 
and biopharmaceuticals.
In 2017, IDEXX donated $10,000 and an intern to work on a pilot program 
aimed at encouraging local company interns to pursue careers in Maine. 
Beginning in 2018, IDEXX committed $50,000 per year for three years to the 
FocusMaine general fund. 
Startup Maine  is a conference to support and grow 
Maine’s business community and potential as an 
economic center. IDEXX sponsored the conference in 
2017, and IDEXX employees have both volunteered and 
participated as speakers.A Focus on STEM Education  
Our own sustainability as a business depends largely on a healthy pipeline 
of prospective employees with a practical knowledge of Science, Technology, 
Engineering, and Math (STEM) topics. We encourage STEM education and give 
IDEXX employees the opportunity to work with Maine’s youth.
IDEXX’s Medical Outreach Program includes building strong relationships 
with veterinary students and their colleges with a goal of raising the standard 
of care for pets. This approach includes community practice, where veterinary 
students gain hands-on experience in a general practice setting.
Maine Biosciences Day  is an annual event where 
IDEXX volunteers guide middle school students 
from around the state in hands-on experiences in 
bioscience-related work.
Maine Science Festival and Maine Engineers’ Week 
Expo is sponsored by IDEXX and IDEXX volunteers 
run hands-on demonstrations for Maine’s youth.
24We seek to reduce our environmental footprint. 
Our goal is to make a positive contribution to the 
planet, starting in our own backyard, and looking at 
environmental aspects throughout our value chain.Environmental  
Responsibility
25At IDEXX, we’re focused on managing energy in every aspect of our 
business. It all starts with integrating a review of environmental aspects 
into the whole life cycle of our products, from sourcing to manufacturing, 
to transportation and end of life. We identify the appropriate roles and 
responsibilities for employees to address environmental issues at each 
of these stages, and properly train them to do so.
Saving Energy with Building Control Systems
Because implementing building control systems makes the most 
significant impact on energy efficiency, by the end of 2018, 61% of IDEXX 
building square footage will have some type of Building Automation 
System (BAS) capability. These systems manage lighting, air temperature, 
and other aspects of building management, while occupancy sensors in 
individual rooms control the lights and heat.  
We have earned ISO 14001 environmental management certification at 
four locations across the globe:From the first LEED Gold Certified commercial 
building in Maine to building green in Germany
In 2014, our Synergy Building was the only LEED Gold 
certified commercial building in Maine. Now we’re 
targeting LEED Gold certification for our new World 
Campus building, which broke ground in 2018. Solar 
panels will supply a significant portion of the power 
needs for the new space. The building will also include a grey water 
system to collect rainwater is collected from the roof and stored in 
underground tanks to be used for flushing toilets.
In Germany, we’re building our new lab in Kornwestheim to strict 
environmental guidelines, including:
• HVAC system that recovers 75% of the waste energy
• Low energy LED lighting
• Large atrium for natural lighting
• Electric automobile charging stations
Energy Management
26
14001IDEXX Laboratories, Inc.
Corporate Headquarters
One IDEXX Drive
Westbrook, Maine 04092
United States
IDEXX Montpellier SAS
326, Rue de la Galera
Parc Euromédecine
34090 Montpellier
FranceWe look at how energy is used throughout the 
company – and seek ways to use less of it.
IDEXX Laboratories, Inc.
One Thomas Drive
Westbrook, Maine 04092
United States
IDEXX Distribution, Inc.
One IDEXX Drive
Westbrook, Maine 04092
United StatesBuilding Energy Use 
In 2017, our buildings across the globe averaged energy usage of  
41.1 kWh per square foot. This figure includes about 90% of our 
worldwide sites. We are working to enhance our data collection  
process and will strive to increase our energy efficiency over time.
Tracking Our Carbon Footprint
We track our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions as part of our 
energy management program.   
We recognize that as IDEXX continues to grow, we need to intensify 
our efforts to minimize energy use and implement renewable energy 
systems to keep our greenhouse gas emissions in check.
Conserving Water in Innovative Ways
In addition to finding ways to make our operations more energy 
efficient, we also seek out ways to protect another valuable resource: 
water. Our Westbrook facilities feature low-flow toilets, low-flow, 
touchless faucets, and solar powered actuators on toilets that are 
recharged by bathroom lights. 
In 2018, 100% of urinals in Westbrook will be converted to waterless 
versions, saving one million gallons of water annually. This will be the 
standard for any new building IDEXX constructs.
27Energy, Emissions, Waste and Water Consumption
2017 Energy, Water Use and CO2 Emissions
41.1 kWh per square foot average 
energy consumption per floor.
21,159  tonnes of CO2e  
total global emissions. 
21 million gallons in water  
consumption.
Focusing on Waste Prevention
We’re focused on reducing waste in every form. One example is the 
work we’re doing to reduce packaging. Our ultimate goal is to use the 
least amount of material, at the lowest cost, that will still offer the best 
protection for our products during shipping. 
Packaging. Since 2017, all Companion Animal Group (CAG) SNAP and 
most SNAP Dairy products have been packed in corrugated cartons with 
approximately 95% recycled content. SNAP Dairy ST products and IDEXX 
analyzers built in Maine are packed in corrugated cartons with 30% to 
60% recycled content. All paper and corrugated material used in IDEXX 
packaging is recyclable.
We have achieved a 12% reduction in corrugated weight and a 20% 
reduction in the weight of the plastic tray in our Neospora packaging. 
We have designed a blister pack to hold Water quality control products that’s 
made from 100% recycled Polyethylene terephthalate (PET). We redesigned 
an OEM manufacturer’s package to improve ergonomics for packing and 
unpacking. And our redesigned cushions use 2% less foam by weight while 
improving cushioning protection for our products. 
Cutting Other Forms of Waste
eWaste. We use the program eWaste Alternatives (EWA) to recycle electronic 
waste from Maine locations. The organization also refurbishes equipment and 
makes those items available to schools, libraries and nonprofits.Battery Disposal and Recycling Program. We offer safe disposal of non-
rechargeable batteries, and recycling of rechargeable batteries through 
collection sites at our Maine facilities.
Lab Waste. While it is not possible to recycle all of the plastics and other waste 
stemming from labs in U.S. locations, we recycle what we can through our 
partner Stericycle. Contaminated medical waste from Maine is incinerated at a 
waste-to-energy facility.
We are currently working with Stericycle to determine if there are ways 
to improve our recycling efforts. To aid in this, we are performing a risk 
assessment of every waste item our labs generate to determine if the waste is 
being managed optimally.
Composting. We partner with a company called We Compost It to compost 
our food scraps and compostable items. In 2017, IDEXX produced 140,125 
pounds of compost through this program.
Zero-Sort Recycling. We partner with Casella to provide Zero-Sort® recycling  
at our Maine Locations. This service makes recycling easy by eliminating the 
need for IDEXX employees to sort recyclable materials.
98%Amount of Westbrook hazardous 
chemical waste incinerated at a 
waste-to-energy facility.
40%Amount of our waste stream 
that was recycled in 2017.
28Governance,  
Leadership, and 
Business Ethics  
Our CR initiatives—like our other strategic and 
risk management initiatives—support our overall 
Purpose and enable the long-term sustainable 
health and financial performance of IDEXX. Our 
financial performance is well-documented through 
a robust and well-established reporting process. 
For additional details, please visit the Investor 
Relations  or SEC filings  section of our website. 
We conduct our business consistent with IDEXX’s 
Code of Ethics. Every IDEXX employee helps us 
achieve those standards.
2930
We set and maintain the  
highest standards of ethics  
while building exceptional long-term value  
for our shareholders.
30Governance and Leadership
The IDEXX leadership team and Board of Directors  are committed to sound 
corporate governance. The Board is elected by our shareholders and is 
responsible for oversight of our purpose, values, and strategy and risk 
management, including our approach to CR. 
The Board has adopted corporate governance policies and practices, including 
the Corporate Governance Guidelines , intended to support the long-term 
health and sustainability of IDEXX.
Ethics Policies and Programs 
Everything we do at IDEXX is guided by clear ethics policies and programs that 
are embodied in our Code of Ethics.
This Code is centered around three commitments to conducting  
business ethically:
•  Avoiding conflicts of interest
•  Complying with laws and regulations
•  Representing IDEXX responsibly in the public arenaThe code applies to IDEXX employees, contractors and the Board of Directors. 
Every IDEXX employee receives training on the Code of Ethics and ethical 
business practices. 
To ensure that IDEXX employees have the best possible awareness of what we 
mean by “ethical business practices,” we facilitate a corporate training program 
that ensures employees understand ethical business practices, understand 
how to report ethical concerns without fear of retaliation, and are aware that 
following IDEXX policies and procedures is  a condition of employment.
Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
We have a Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Program, which is part  
of our Code of Ethics. The program is designed to increase awareness among 
our employees, agents and affiliates about applicable anti-bribery and 
corruption laws and to detect and remediate potential violations of such laws. 
As part of our program, we prohibit bribes and facilitation payments and 
require third parties to agree to conduct IDEXX business in accordance with our 
principles.31Managing a global supply chain  
As a global company with an extended supply chain that reaches across North 
America, Europe, and Asia, IDEXX is committed to ensuring an ethical focus 
throughout our global supply chain.  Whether a supplier provides raw materials 
or finished goods, IDEXX has a risk-based supplier relationship management 
process that defines ethical and quality standards in the  identification, 
selection, and qualification of potential new partners. A key component of this 
approach is the use of leading inspection, verification, testing and certification 
companies  to conduct vendor sustainability audits. 
Modern Slavery Statement
Since 2017, IDEXX annually releases a Modern Slavery Statement that 
addresses slavery and human trafficking in our business and supply chains. 
Supplier Code of Conduct
In 2017, we began developing an IDEXX Supplier Code of Conduct. It is 
expected to be finalized by the end of 2018 and then implemented among 
our suppliers. The Code will set clear standards for our suppliers regarding 
human and workplace rights, environmental protection, and ethical conduct. 
Conflict Minerals Policy 
We are opposed to human rights abuses and committed to sourcing gold, tin, 
tantalum and tungsten in a manner that does not contribute to conflict in the 
Democratic Republic of Congo or its adjoining countries. We have adopted and 
communicated to our suppliers and the public a Conflict Minerals Policy that 
details our expectations of suppliers regarding these minerals. In addition, we 
are a member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative.Palm Oil
Products we manufacture do not include palm oil in their design or 
formulation.
Customer Health and Safety
We are committed to the health and safety of our customers in 
environmental compliance, an area of increasing importance globally.  
IDEXX has implemented systems and processes enabling us to work towards 
an end-to-end supply chain that incorporates customer health and safety and 
addresses global regulatory requirements. Our goal is to manage our supply 
chain consistent with our ethical foundation of transparency, governance  
and ethics.
Privacy
We respect the privacy of our customers, potential customers, website  
visitors, vendors, distributors, pet owners, and any other current or potential 
IDEXX partner where our business interactions involve the processing of 
personal data. 
Our Privacy Policy applies to the processing of personal data by IDEXX 
Laboratories, Inc., its affiliates or subsidiaries, and is binding to all of the 
IDEXX group of companies. You can view our Privacy Policy here  and find a 
list of IDEXX companies  here.Doing the Right Thing
We are very proud of the Corporate Responsibility 
work we’ve done and we look forward to sharing 
updates about the evolution of Corporate 
Responsibility at IDEXX. Meanwhile, please send 
questions about our CR efforts to:
Corporateresponsibility@idexx.comA Look Ahead
32Corporate Headquarters
IDEXX Laboratories, Inc.
One IDEXX Drive
Westbrook, Maine 04092 
United States
1-207-556-0300
1-800-548-6733
Fax: 1-207-556-4346European Headquarters
IDEXX Europe B.V.
Scorpius 60 Building F
Hoofddorp, 2132 LR
The Netherlands
+31-23-558-70-00
Fax: +31-23-558-72-33