2021   
SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCECOMPANY PROFILE
Corporate Overview  .................................................................. 2
Mission and Guiding Principles.  ................................................. 2
Our Sustainability Commitment  ................................................ 2
Our Approach to ESG ................................................................. 3
COVID -19  ................................................................................... 5
ENVIRONMENTAL
Environmental Risk Management Policy  .................................... 6
Compliance  ........................................................................... 6
Continuous Improvement  ...................................................... 6 
Business Integration  .............................................................. 6
Environment & Climate Change  ............................................. 6
Health & Safety ...................................................................... 6
Communication & Education  ................................................. 6
Environmental Targets  .............................................................. 7
SOCIAL
Talent  ........................................................................................ 8
Culture Promises  ....................................................................... 8
Team Member Engagement  ....................................................... 8
Performance Management  ........................................................ 8
Learning and Development  ....................................................... 9
Global Mentoring Program  ........................................................ 9
Virtual Work Support  ................................................................ 9
Team Member Recognition  ........................................................ 9
Talent Acquisition  ...................................................................... 9
Early Career / Development Rotational Programs ...................... 9
Global Mentoring Program  ........................................................ 9
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion .................................................... 10
Health, Safety & Wellness ........................................................ 10
Pay Equity  ................................................................................ 10
Collective Bargaining  ............................................................... 11
Discrimination Policy  ................................................................ 11
Product Quality  ........................................................................ 11
Supplier Code of Conduct  ........................................................ 12
Supplier Social Responsibility Audits  ....................................... 12
Supplier Diligence  ................................................................... 12
Supplier Quality Audits  ............................................................ 12Supplier Diversity Policy  .......................................................... 13
Management of Risks Associated with Use  
of Critical Materials  ................................................................. 13
Animal Testing Policy  ............................................................... 13
Clinical Trial Program  ............................................................... 13
Clinical Trial Transparency  ....................................................... 14
Grants, Donations and Funding ............................................... 14
Zimmer Biomet Foundation  ................................................. 14
Zimmer Biomet Medical Missions  ........................................ 15
Zimmer Biomet Corporate Grants  ........................................ 15
Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion  ........................... 16
Access to Healthcare ............................................................... 16
Movement is Life  .................................................................. 16
Patient Privacy and Data Security ............................................ 17
Privacy  ................................................................................ 17
Data Security ....................................................................... 17
Data Usage  .......................................................................... 17
Ownership  ........................................................................... 17
Cybersecurity  .......................................................................... 18
GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance  ............................................................ 19
Audit Committee  ................................................................. 19
Compensation and Management Development Committee  .19
Corporate Governance Committee  ...................................... 20
Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee  .................. 20
Executive Compensation  ......................................................... 20
Ethical Business Conduct  ......................................................... 20
Countering Corruption  ............................................................ 21
Whistleblower Program ........................................................... 22
Ethical Marketing  .................................................................... 23
Zimmer Biomet’s Statement of Engagement  
on Public Policy Issues  ............................................................ 23
How Zimmer Biomet Engages .................................................. 24
Industry Groups and Trade Associations  .................................. 25
Political Contributions  ............................................................. 25
2020 Sustainability Accounting Standards  
Board Index  ............................................................................. 26Table of Contents
*The disclosures in this report are for WholeCo Zimmer Biomet including Dental & Spine segment3
CEO INTRODUCTION
Every day, the Zimmer Biomet team works towards our mission  
of alleviating pain and improving quality of life  
for people around the world. 
We also work toward being a responsible corporate citizen. 
This Sustainability Report describes our annual accomplishments in 
developing a more sustainable business, reducing waste and use of 
natural resources, and improving the environmental performance of our 
operations. It also describes our commitment to the highest standards of 
patient safety and quality in our products and services and to world-class 
integrity and ethical business practices.
In 2021, we continued to make strong progress against  
our sustainability commitments. As a company,  
we are increasingly focused on advancing these initiatives  
and even more ambitious about what we can achieve, together. 
On behalf of all of us at Zimmer Biomet, I thank you  
for your support. I look forward to continuing to share  
our progress with you as we move ahead.   
Bryan Hanson
Chairman, President and CEO, Zimmer Biomet
Corporate Overview
Zimmer Biomet is a global medical technology leader with 
a comprehensive portfolio designed to maximize mobility 
and improve health. We seamlessly transform the patient 
experience through our innovative products and suite of 
integrated digital and robotic technologies that leverage 
data, analytics and artificial intelligence.  
With more than 90 years of trusted leadership and 
proven expertise, Zimmer Biomet is positioned to deliver 
the highest quality solutions to patients and providers. 
Our legacy continues to come to life today through our 
progressive culture of evolution and innovation. 
  
For more information about our product portfolio, our 
operations in more than 25 countries and sales in more 
than 100 countries, or about joining our team, visit  
www.zimmerbiomet.com or follow Zimmer Biomet  
on Twitter at www.twitter.com/zimmerbiomet .Our Mission  
Alleviate pain and improve the quality of life  
for people around the world.  
Guiding Principles   
• Respect the contributions and perspectives  
of all team members. 
• Commit to the highest standards of patient safety, 
quality and integrity. 
• Focus our resources in areas where we will  
make a difference. 
• Ensure our return is equivalent to the value  
we provide our customers and patients. 
• Give back to our communities and people in need. 
Our Sustainability Commitment  
Zimmer Biomet is committed to being a good corporate 
citizen. Our global team is dedicated to sustainable 
practices across the entire spectrum of the environmental, 
social and governance platform.
COMPANY PROFILE
2OUR APPROACH TO ESG
We take a comprehensive and proactive approach to ESG. 
Our Board’s Corporate Governance Committee oversees 
current and emerging political, social, environmental, 
corporate citizenship and public policy issues for the 
Company. At the team member level, we have established a 
functional ESG Working Group, comprised of team members 
spanning multiple divisions of the organization, including 
Human Resources, Operations, Environmental, Health, 
Safety and Sustainability, Quality, Finance, Accounting, 
Investor Relations, Communications, Government Affairs, 
Legal and Compliance. The ESG Working Group meets monthly to discuss Zimmer 
Biomet’s ESG initiatives and identifies ways we can enhance 
our ESG disclosures. Our CEO and CFO receive monthly 
updates on our ESG progress, while at the Board level, 
the Corporate Governance Committee receives quarterly 
reports. 
We proactively engage with ratings agencies and investors 
to inform our ESG processes and provide the appropriate 
level of transparency while using third party auditing 
and benchmarking to pinpoint areas for continuous 
improvement.  
3COMPANY AWARDS
45
COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected Zimmer 
Biomet’s financial results, but has not impacted the quality, 
safety and efficacy of our products.
Prior to COVID-19, Zimmer Biomet developed 
comprehensive crisis response plans and initiated 
contingency drills – including for pandemic events – across 
our operations. This exercise helped prepare our business 
and create enhanced disaster recovery plans that have been 
a significant benefit throughout our response to COVID-19. 
Throughout 2021, we continued to aggressively secure our 
global supply chain and manage the unique challenges 
presented by each new COVID-19 wave. Due to these 
efforts, we continued to serve our customers without 
compromising product quality and safety.All of our manufacturing sites and distribution centers 
continued to operate throughout 2021 with enhanced 
safety protocols. Our vigilance and commitment to health 
and safety ensured our team members in each region had 
what they needed to operate in a safe environment and 
meet our operational commitments. Our enhanced safety 
protocols were openly shared with suppliers to further 
secure our supply chain. Most Zimmer Biomet team 
members who were not directly responsible for or involved 
in manufacturing operations and the supply chain worked 
from home as an added safety measure to reduce risk of 
infection and secure the supply chain.6Environmental Risk Management Policy
Consistent with Zimmer Biomet’s Mission, Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics ( https:/ /www.zimmerbiomet.com/
en/about-us/our-impact.html ), and the Environmental, 
Health, Safety, and Sustainability (EHSS) vision, we are 
committed to our policy of conducting business in a safe 
and environmentally sustainable manner that promotes the 
health of our employees, customers, community and the 
environment, specifically fighting climate change. 
The purpose of our Environmental Risk Management 
Policy is to implement the principles of the EHSS programs 
while implementing and sustaining global best practices. 
Corporate and regional standards exist to support these 
principles.
This policy applies to all locations worldwide and provides 
uniform guidance for Zimmer Biomet EHSS teams to 
manage and monitor risk within our global manufacturing 
and distribution processes. The EHSS Management System 
delivers six main outcomes, as follows:
Compliance
We comply with, and often exceed the requirements of, 
all applicable EHSS laws, regulations, Company EHSS 
standards and other requirements to which we subscribe 
related to all EHSS subject matter and risks. We conduct 
frequent audits and implement best practices to maintain 
compliance with these requirements.
Continuous Improvement
Zimmer Biomet establishes EHSS goals, objectives 
and targets across our global business and strives to 
continually improve our performance and publicly report 
on our progress. Our EHSS standards establish controls and 
promote a positive EHSS culture.Business Integration  
We integrate EHSS principles into business decisions to 
proactively ensure the health and safety of our employees 
and communities, while also promoting environmentally 
sustainable practices. Specifically, we require that an 
EHSS evaluation be integrated into product design, 
manufacturing and distribution business processes and 
services that will reduce EHSS risks, improve performance 
throughout our operations, products and packaging across 
their lifecycle, and promote pollution prevention.
Environment & Climate Change
To minimize our impact on the environment and address 
climate change, we minimize waste and emissions, reuse 
and recycle materials, promote renewable energy use, 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and conserve energy 
and water wherever feasible.
Health & Safety
Zimmer Biomet EHSS establishes health and safety 
standards that promote a safe and healthy workplace by 
striving continuously to reduce hazards and risks to prevent 
workplace injuries and illnesses.
Communication & Education
Zimmer Biomet EHSS communicates our Environmental 
Health and Safety Policy to employees, customers, 
shareholders, suppliers, community and other 
stakeholders. Zimmer Biomet EHSS standards, procedures 
and other resources enable employees to implement this 
policy and share best practices to promote continuous 
improvement and enhance environmental, health and 
safety performance.
ENVIRONMENTAL
Environmental Targets
The environmental issues facing the world and the threat of 
climate change warrant an urgent and immediate response. 
In 2020, Zimmer Biomet publicly committed to setting 
science-based targets, which in 2021 were approved 
through the Science Based Target Initiative.  
https:/ /sciencebasedtargets.org/companies-taking-
action#table
We are committed to reducing absolute scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 55% by 2030 from a 2017 
base year. We have also committed to reduce absolute 
scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and 
services to 15% by 2030 from a 2019 base year. More than 
40% of our supply chain responded to our request for GHG 
emission disclosures in 2021, our first year of focus on scope 
3, furthering our efforts to reduce our carbon footprint. 
Furthermore, in July 2021, a large-scale solar farm, 
Prospero II, for which Zimmer Biomet negotiated a Virtual 
Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA), went into commercial 
operation. The renewable energy generated from the solar 
farm will offset 100% of our North American electrical load. 
In the second half of 2021, the renewable energy generated 
for Zimmer Biomet was more than 5,474MWh, which 
equates to nearly 39,000 Metric Tons of CO2 emissions 
reduction, or 28% reduction of Zimmer Biomet’s scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions. This amount of emissions reduction 
is equivalent to nearly 19,500 metric tons of coal burned. 
We continue to pursue renewable energies in other regions 
throughout the world to advance our commitment to 
becoming a recognized leader within the environmental 
space. 
We have also outfitted all major manufacturing and 
distribution sites globally with LED lighting, which is more 
energy efficient than conventional bulbs.
In addition, we actively participate in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP), with a Climate Change 2021 ranking of B, 
and a 2021 Supplier Engagement Rating of A-; you can see 
our grades here. The Supplier Engagement Rating assesses 
performance on governance, targets, scope 3 emissions, 
and value chain engagement in the CDP Climate change 
questionnaire. Zimmer Biomet considers engagement of 
our supply chain a key part of our environmental leadership 
strategy.The following chart shows our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. 
Source: Zimmer Biomet internal invoice data and third party sources.
Additionally, we are proud that 10 of our major manufacturing 
and distribution sites are now zero waste to landfill, and we 
continue to look for ways to increase recycling as we reduce 
our landfill waste. The following chart details our waste 
streams for our global operations.
Since 201 1, Zimmer Biomet has been a corporate sponsor of 
ACRES Land Trust, Indiana’s oldest and largest membership-
based nonprofit land conservation organization. ACRES 
protects more than 7 ,200 acres of forests, wetlands, 
grasslands and unique geological features in more than 1 15 
nature preserves, many of which are open to the public.
78
Talent
One of Zimmer Biomet’s core strategic pillars is our 
commitment to being a “Best and Preferred Place 
to Work” and we advance that priority through a 
comprehensive and integrated approach. Below are 
highlights of our 2021 achievements in this area. 
Culture Promises
Our Culture Promises describe a shared commitment 
to deliver on our mission and build a stronger Zimmer 
Biomet. Shape Tomorrow is our promise to keep our 
eyes on the future and create opportunities to move 
the business forward. Ignite Collaboration reminds us 
that we are coming together as one Zimmer Biomet 
to collaborate and create winning outcomes. Focus to 
Win is a promise that we will maximize our impact for 
patients and colleagues by working with clarity and 
focus. These promises help us to work together to make 
Zimmer Biomet a Best and Preferred Place to Work.  
Team Member Engagement
Through the implementation of a comprehensive 
engagement strategy, we are engaging team members 
frequently for a more holistic view of the team member 
experience as we strive to be a Best and Preferred Place 
to Work.
We use the valuable insights gained through our annual 
team member engagement survey, frequent “pulse 
checks”, and onboarding and exit surveys to inform our 
priorities and improve our team members’ experience. 
Our surveys assess five key drivers of engagement, 
including purpose, culture, leadership, personal growth 
and belonging.  
In 2021, we implemented quarterly performance check-
ins between managers and team members, creating 
opportunities to align on priorities and report progress on key milestones. Managers are also encouraged to 
provide coaching and feedback during these valuable 
conversations. As a result, team members reported 
significant improvement in engagement with their 
managers. In response to our company-wide 2020 
engagement survey results, we implemented a 
global, social recognition platform. As a result, team 
members also reported improved satisfaction with the 
recognition they receive for their work.
As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, team members 
reported the need to do even more to nurture well-
being and deliver transparent communication, both of 
which have been prioritized by our leadership team and 
included in our 2022 action plans.
We believe it is critically important to keep our team 
members engaged through frequent and transparent 
communication. This is accomplished through town 
hall meetings, video and written messages and various 
other channels. To stay connected throughout the 
COVID-19 pandemic, our Chief Executive Officer kept 
team members informed of our priorities, financial 
results, management response and team member 
health and safety through frequent video messages 
and written communications.
Performance Management
In 2021, we worked to further embed our new framework 
and approach to performance management, which is 
branded internally as “Performance Connections”. In 
addition to the quarterly check-ins mentioned above, 
we formalized the mid-year Career Check-In through 
which team members align opportunities to learn, 
develop, and grow with their ambitions for the next 
step(s) in their career. As part of this, team members 
create a talent profile that captures details of their 
professional resume and document a career plan 
that outlines next steps as a focal discussion point in 
ongoing check-ins with their manager.
SOCIAL
9
Learning and Development 
We support the learning and development needs of the 
organization through a number of instructor/virtual training 
courses. These include desktop application training (e.g., 
Excel, Word, PowerPoint), Coaching in the Moment, and 
Insights Discovery. We continue to maintain, and take 
on opportunities to improve, our Learning Management 
System (LMS), branded internally as “iLearn”, which is the 
primary delivery mechanism for Quality, Compliance, and 
product-focused training that services 26,600 employees 
and contractors, and houses over 34,000 courses globally.
Global Mentoring Program 
We launched a pilot global mentoring program, Mentoring 
Connections, to connect experienced Zimmer Biomet 
professionals with team members who are eager to learn from 
their experience. We matched and trained mentor/mentee 
pairs to embark on a six-month formal mentoring relationship. 
We will evaluate the experience and impact of the program for 
pilot participants and plan to expand the program in 2022. 
Virtual Work Support 
We launched virtual work global programming support 
intended to help team members achieve success through 
sustained remote work in response to the pandemic. 
This includes the creation of job aids and resources that 
help team members and managers focus on building and 
sustaining connections in the absence of regular, in-person 
contact. We also produced and shared four “fireside chats” 
featuring our leadership team members sharing their 
experiences and actionable tips of leading and working 
virtually. Chat topics focused on well-being, recognition, 
mentoring, and accountability and engagement.
Team Member Recognition
In 2021 we launched a new global, social recognition 
platform, IGNITE, to recognize team members for the 
remarkable work they do every day. With a mobile app, team 
members can give recognition to others from anywhere, at 
any time.  
Talent Acquisition
As part of our commitment to diversity, the Talent 
Acquisition team partnered with our Employee Resource 
Groups (ERGs), hiring managers and executive sponsors 
to enhance our talent pools by engaging with new national 
and campus partnerships. In 2021, Zimmer Biomet invested in our ERGs and diversity 
recruitment programs with newly formed partnerships 
with the following: Howard University, National Society of 
Black Engineers, National Association of Asian American 
Professionals, myGworks, FairyGodBoss, Hire Our Heroes, 
National Sales Network, Girls Who Code, National Football 
League, and Hispanic Alliance for Career Enhancement. 
Additionally, INROADS and Howard University were named 
Zimmer Biomet’s campus and national partners for early 
career diverse talent in 2021 in the United States. 
Early Career / Development Rotational 
Programs
In 2021, Zimmer Biomet sustained and enhanced our early 
career talent programming in locations across the U.S., 
including full-time rotational development programs in 
Finance and Quality. Enhancements include partnering 
our early career hires with mentors from our global ERGs, 
hosting professional development and socialization events. 
In the United States, Zimmer Biomet’s robust finance 
summer intern program is a direct pipeline for our full-time 
Finance Development Program (FDP .) Approximately 60% 
of our finance summer interns leave their internship with a 
full-time job offer, which includes a competitive salary, sign-
on bonus, and full benefits. 
Our full-time rotational development programs are a 
launch pad for college graduates. Participants rotate 
across 3-4 areas of the global business for a diverse view 
of their function and its processes, and at the conclusion 
of their two-year program, participants “graduate” and are 
promoted to next-level roles, which is on an accelerated 
time schedule in comparison to peers with the same years 
of experience. 
Global Benefits 
Zimmer Biomet reviews our benefits each plan year, 
considering both our team member population as well 
as market benefit practices so we are competitive in our 
offerings. 
 
We understand how critical well-being is for our team 
members and their families. Globally, initiatives are in 
place or being implemented to provide health-promoting 
activities that support sustainable behaviors among team 
members, reducing physical and mental health risks, 
improving the quality of life, and enhancing personal 
effectiveness at work. Also, in recent years, we have focused 
on key areas for women, family and individual health.  Below are key areas in the U.S. where we continue to assess 
and adjust as needed to support our team members.
• We continue to offer key preventative services and for 
mothers, we provide opportunities to help support and 
transition back to the workforce.  
• We increased Infertility benefits and the number of 
Parental Leave days while continuing to provide child 
care discounts at multiple day care facilities.
• We understand our team members have individualized 
needs and we offer programs to support them, such as 
global employee assistance programs (EAP) counseling 
and also benefits such as transgender surgery/medical 
benefits.  
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Zimmer Biomet remains committed to creating, supporting 
and celebrating diverse and equal workplaces and 
communities. We continue to foster and embrace diversity 
and inclusion within our team and our communities, and 
commit our voices and our resources to community groups, 
business platforms and other organizations united to 
driving meaningful change and sustained improvement. 
We believe that representation matters. As of December 
31, 2021, women made up 35.1% of our total employee 
population, and 25.1% of positions at Director level and 
above. People of Color (POC) made up 22.1% of our total 
employee population in the U.S., and comprised 15.2% of 
positions at Director level and above. We have established 
2026 representation goals for women and POC in the 
organization, guided by internal and external benchmarks.
Core to Zimmer Biomet’s values is our commitment to 
stand together against hatred, discrimination and injustice, 
and we advance these values through our actions and 
investments. With this in mind, we have committed to the 
following initiatives to drive and accelerate change within 
our own organization and around the globe. We have 
shared these commitments publicly and are tracking our 
progress against them:   
• Engage our more than 20,000 global team members in 
cultural awareness and inclusion programming.
• Invest $1 million and provide executive sponsorship to 
support ongoing programs and elevate the impact of 
our ERGs.
• Commit at least $5 million over five years through the 
Zimmer Biomet Foundation to nonprofit organizations 
globally dedicated to combating racism and supporting 
diversity, equality and justice. The Zimmer Biomet 
Foundation is an independent, nonprofit organization 
established in 2018 to address the needs of our global 
community. You can read more about the Zimmer 
Biomet Foundation below. • Match, through the Zimmer Biomet Foundation, 
employee financial contributions to nonprofit 
organizations, including those dedicated to combating 
racism and supporting diversity, equality and justice.
• Expand our student and early career internship 
programs to attract and develop more Black leaders.
• Continue our financial support of Movement is Life, a 
multidisciplinary coalition seeking to eliminate racial, 
ethnic and gender disparities in muscle and joint 
health.
Health, Safety & Wellness
The physical and mental health, financial well-being 
and work/life balance of our team members are vital to 
accomplishing our Mission and achieving our goals. We 
sponsor wellness programs designed to enhance physical, 
financial and mental well-being, and encourage participation 
in these programs through regular communications, 
educational sessions and other incentives.  
We are also intensely focused on the health and safety of 
our team members in the workplace. Our environmental, 
health and safety team constantly monitors various metrics 
to ensure we are providing the safest environment in which 
to work. In 2021, our Total Recordable Incident Rate, which 
is defined as recordable incidents multiplied by 200,000 
hours worked divided by total hours worked, was 0.29 and 
our Lost Time Incident Rate, which is defined as lost time 
incidents multiplied by 200,000 hours worked divided by 
total hours worked, was 0.14.  
Pay Equity
We are committed to our pay equity process and we conduct 
annual pay equity reviews. Our comprehensive pay equity 
review covers pay, promotions and new hire practices. This 
includes various types of pay, such as base salary, bonus, 
long-term incentives and new hire sign-on awards (cash or 
equity).  
 
Prior to 2019, the pay equity review was focused on gender 
differences, with any identified pay issue also being 
reviewed for ethnicity against similarly situated positions. 
Starting in 2019, we further enhanced our analysis to review 
pay differences by gender, age, ethnicity and location, and 
in 2020 engaged a new external partner with increased 
analytical capabilities. Each year we assess our analysis 
capabilities to identify areas of opportunity.  
 
10Human Resources coordinates Zimmer Biomet’s process to 
address any issues identified from the pay equity analysis. 
Individuals identified in the annual pay equity review 
continue to have their annual progress monitored in order 
to ensure that any pay issues are resolved.
Collective Bargaining
Zimmer Biomet has more than 20,000 active team members 
globally, approximately 200 of whom are affiliated with a 
U.S. collective bargaining agreement. 
Discrimination Policy
Zimmer Biomet is an equal opportunity employer and is fully 
committed to a policy of treating all of our team members 
and job applicants equally. 
We take all reasonable steps to employ, train and promote 
team members on the basis of their experience, abilities and 
qualifications without regard to race, color, ethnic origin, 
nationality, national origin, religion or belief, sex, sexual 
orientation, gender reassignment, age, marital or civil 
partnership status or disability. 
We also take all reasonable steps to provide a work 
environment in which all team members are treated with 
respect and dignity and that is free of harassment based 
upon an employee’s race, color, ethnic origin, nationality, 
national origin, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, 
gender reassignment, age, marital or civil partnership 
status or disability. 
Zimmer Biomet does not condone any form of harassment, 
whether engaged in by team members or by outside third 
parties who do business with us. 
Product Quality 
Zimmer Biomet is committed to best-in-class product 
quality and the robustness of our Quality Management 
System. Every site has a stringent internal quality audit 
program. In addition, we have an independent corporate quality audit program and are audited periodically by 
external regulatory bodies such as the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulatory and 
nongovernmental competent authorities around the world. 
Our internal corporate audit and external audit results are 
closely monitored and reported at regular management 
review meetings, and we maintain a detailed set of key 
performance indicators in the quality area. In addition, 
the Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee of 
the Board of Directors receives a comprehensive quality 
presentation at each quarterly meeting.
We have multiple manufacturing sites proactively 
participating in the Medical Device Innovation Consortium 
(MDIC) and the FDA Case for Quality Voluntary Improvement 
program. For more information on this program, visit 
www.fda.gov/medical-devices/quality-and-compliance-
medical-devices/ case-quality
Furthermore, we have a stringent supply chain monitoring 
program inclusive of quality, delivery and cost measures.
In recent years, Zimmer Biomet has made substantial 
progress on quality system enhancements and remediation 
across our network. As of December 2021, we had one 
pending FDA Warning Letter, which pertains to our Warsaw, 
Indiana North Campus facility. While the Warning Letter 
at the Warsaw North facility remains active, following an 
FDA re-inspection in 2020, the FDA classified the site as 
Voluntary Action Indicated, or VAI. Zimmer Biomet (Warsaw 
North Campus facility) is partnering with FDA and MDIC 
as part of an industry pilot study (Accelerate Sustainable 
Capability) to help improve product quality and safety, 
enable compliance actions to be closed faster, and structure 
systems for sustainable continuous improvement. The pilot 
program leverages a maturity assessment program that 
includes action plans with FDA reviews.
We have made significant investments in Quality 
Management System remediation and upgrades over the 
past four years. While these enhancements continue, we are 
very encouraged that these efforts have already resulted in 
a significant reduction in FDA product recalls during that 
time. In 2021, the FDA reportable recall total was 5, which 
was a 75% improvement compared to 2020.
YearClass 1 
RecallsClass 2 
RecallsClass 3 
RecallsForms 
483
ReceivedWarning 
Letters 
Received
2016 1 40 1 3 1
2017 1 62 0 7 0
2018 1 48 0 3 1
2019 1 24 0 3 0
2020 0 21 0 1 0
2021 1 4 0 0 0
1112We are advancing automation in manufacturing, quality 
systems and inspection and measurement methods such as 
Manufacturing Execution System (MES), Design Controls 
and Risk Management Software (The Vault), and InfinityQS. 
A Product Lifecycle Management tool, Windchill, is in the 
midst of a global implementation to simplify regulatory 
compliance while simultaneously increasing new product 
speed to market. The global use of this tool will create an 
ability for resources to work across the network seamlessly 
and formulate a single approach to deliverable completion.
In addition to the Quality Begins With Me  program launched 
in 2020, an upgraded compliance hotline process was 
launched across Zimmer Biomet in 2021 with a campaign 
called “ If You See Something, Say Something ”. Both the 
program and the hotline help us continue to promote a 
“blame free” culture where we drive appropriate behaviors, 
empower team members to promote operational 
excellence, and maintain focus on quality and compliance. 
We have continued with Green Belt and Black Belt 
certification programs so team members learn and apply 
LEAN tools to reduce waste, drive out variation (by applying 
Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control problem-
solving), and make data-driven decisions through proven 
quality tools and statistical methods.
We are also working toward compliance and certification 
with the European Union Medical Device Regulation 
standards by 2024.
Supplier Code of Conduct 
We are committed to achieving and maintaining the highest 
standards of corporate integrity and ethical behavior, and 
we expect our suppliers to conduct business with the same 
high standards. To establish guidelines for such standards, 
Zimmer Biomet has instituted a Code of Supplier Conduct, 
available at
www.zimmerbiomet.com/content/dam/zimmer-biomet/
sourcing/Zimmer-Biomet-Supplier-Code-of-Conduct.pdf
At a minimum, suppliers must conduct business in 
accordance with all applicable country, state, and local 
laws and regulations covering the jurisdictions in which 
they operate, including, without limitation, laws relating 
to employment, human rights, the environment, health 
and safety and trade. Each supplier is to comply with 
the commercial best practices of the supplier’s industry. 
Zimmer Biomet reserves the right to decline to deal with 
suppliers who do not comply with the law or our standards.We have also taken steps to ensure that slavery and human 
trafficking is not taking place in our supply chains or any 
parts of our business operations through the UK Modern 
Slavery Act of 2015 and the California Transparency in 
Supply Chains Act of 2010.
www.zimmerbiomet.com/content/dam/zb-corporate/en/
suppliers/global-and-nam/uk-modern-slavery-act-and-
california-transparency-in-supply-chain-act-statement.pdf
Supplier Social Responsibility Audits
Zimmer Biomet conducts Social Responsibility audits 
with all new suppliers in high risk regions and on existing 
suppliers every three years. The audit investigates child 
labor; forced labor and human trafficking; disciplinary 
practices; working hours and compensation; environmental 
protection; health and safety; and management practices. 
Forty-seven suppliers were audited in 2019 with no major 
findings. The next round of Social Responsibility audits will 
occur in 2022 and focus on high-risk suppliers.
Supplier Diligence
For all new proposed international suppliers, due diligence 
investigations are conducted by the Zimmer Biomet 
Compliance team to make sure the third party is not on 
a blocked person list, a specially designated national 
watchlist or otherwise a prohibited party. This global due 
diligence review starts at the front end of the request 
process. Ongoing due diligence is conducted periodically 
for existing suppliers.
Supplier Quality Audits
New and existing supplier audit plans are established based 
on the applicable Quality Management System (QMS) 
requirement for the product/service the supplier provides. 
The applicable QMS requirements are focused on FDA 
and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
standards. These standards include FDA 21 CFR 820 and 
ISO 13485.
Zimmer Biomet has three global documents detailing the 
process: (i) the Supplier Questionnaire is used to collect 
a variety of information on the supplier, including an 
overview of the supplier’s quality system; (ii) the Supplier 
Qualification Report determines which audit plan will be 
followed and the supplier’s risk classification; and (iii) the 
Supplier Audit Report details the information found during 
the audit and the attendees.13All information gathered from the auditing process is stored 
in a global system and accessible to all Zimmer Biomet 
businesses.
 
Supplier Diversity Policy
We believe that a diverse supply chain strengthens our ability 
to carry out our Mission and improve the communities in 
which we live and work. Zimmer Biomet’s Supplier Diversity 
Policy in the United States assists in establishing and 
maintaining business relationships with suppliers that are 
either certified in diverse categories by the Small Business 
Administration or self-certified where applicable.  
We assign a Small Business Liaison Officer (SBLO) as an 
administrator for the Supplier Diversity Program. The SBLO 
assures that reports documenting procurement levels, 
broken down by supplier classification, are prepared as 
requested by government agencies and contract groups. 
Annual Summary Subcontract Reports and Year End 
Supplementary Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) 
Reports are submitted according to the Department of 
Defense. 
Zimmer Biomet’s diversity reporting obligations to the 
U.S. Federal Government include spending in the United 
States and Puerto Rico in the following six diverse supplier 
categories annually:
1. Historically Underutilized Business Zone Small 
Business (HUBZone) 
2. Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business 
(SDVOSB) 
3. Small Business (SB) 
4. Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) 
5. Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB) 
6. Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB)  
Management of Risks Associated  
with Use of Critical Materials  
Zimmer Biomet has a Global Supply Risk Management 
process. We have established a systematic approach to:
• Ensure continuity of supply for goods and services
• Proactively manage (identify, assess, mitigate and 
monitor) potential supply risks which may result in 
product delays and/or revenue impact to the business
• Ensure that a global process is being utilized across the 
Zimmer Biomet Global Sourcing OrganizationA key component in risk monitoring is the financial impacts 
that might occur in raw material scarcity and/or physical 
disruptions of Zimmer Biomet’s own operations or in the 
operations of our supply chain. To mitigate these risks, 
Zimmer Biomet uses a third party to rank our top suppliers 
against 73 financial ratios on a scale of 1-100 to understand 
the overall financial health of these suppliers. It is considered 
to have substantive strategic impact on Zimmer Biomet’s 
business if suppliers score below a 20 in this rating. 
Through a third-party vendor, we obtain international 
private company financial statements and have a greater 
than 85% success rate (and above 90% in certain markets) 
to measure the core health of a supplier out to 36 months, 
and predicting probability of default over 12 to 18 months 
via a quantitative model to generate a rating.
Animal Testing Policy
Zimmer Biomet’s use of animal testing is consistent with 
animal welfare acts around the world. We use animal 
testing when required to demonstrate biological safety for 
our products that cannot be demonstrated by laboratory 
benchtop tests or when required to demonstrate 
compliance with medical device regulations. 
The laboratories that Zimmer Biomet engages for animal 
testing typically have American Association for Accreditation 
of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC) certification or have 
their own animal research committee (i.e., an independent 
review committee) to ensure compliance with national 
animal welfare acts. Zimmer Biomet does not perform 
animal testing directly; the work is contracted to labs.
Clinical Trial Program
We operate a robust global clinical research program that 
strives to collect meaningful clinical evidence to support our 
vast portfolio of products that ultimately help alleviate pain 
and improve the quality of life for people around the world. 
Our clinical research programs support the safety and 
effectiveness of our products, services and technologies 
in a compliant and transparent manner. Zimmer Biomet-
supported clinical trials are conducted across many 
different programs, including sponsored multi-center 
global clinical trials, as well as Company supported smaller 
investigator initiated clinical trials.  Zimmer Biomet conducts studies all over the world that are 
managed by our global Clinical Affairs teams. These teams 
manage our regulated and post-market studies and are 
located in key locations across the globe. In all instances, 
these programs and teams adhere to Zimmer Biomet 
policies and procedures that incorporate the standards set 
forth in the International Conference on Harmonization, the 
Declaration of Helsinki, Good Clinical Practice guidelines 
and the AdvaMed Code of Ethics. 
To protect the rights, privacy, safety and well-being of 
clinical trial participants, Zimmer Biomet has an overarching 
global procedure for Conducting Clinical Research 
Involving Human Subjects. This procedure also ensures 
that the clinical research from our clinical trials is qualified 
and reliable and can be used by worldwide regulatory 
authorities. As part of our procedures, clinical trials are 
reviewed and approved by several cross-functional internal 
committees, including a Clinical Investigation Review 
Committee and a Clinical Research Review Committee. 
Clinical trials are only approved if they are scientifically 
sound, meet a well-defined business need and are within fair 
market value calculations. Clinical trial support can range 
from monetary funding, providing in-kind product, or even 
the loaning of specialized instrumentation and equipment. 
In addition to the internal Zimmer Biomet review and 
approval processes, all clinical studies are required to be 
reviewed and approved by an Institutional Review Board 
or Ethics Committee that is independent of both Zimmer 
Biomet and the participating investigational centers. 
Clinical Trial Transparency
Zimmer Biomet supports clinical research to foster 
advances in clinical knowledge and furthering medical 
device development related to our products and 
programs. As such, clinical trial transparency is required 
to appropriately contribute to and comply with the 
International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) initiative and Food and Drug Administration Amendments 
Act (FDAAA) requirements by utilizing ClinicalTrials.gov to 
register our active clinical studies and study results once 
they are available. All study results are posted, regardless 
of whether the trial is deemed successful or failed to meet 
the primary end point. A sample listing of Zimmer Biomet 
clinical trials can be found at ClinicalTrials.gov .
Grants, Donations and Funding
Zimmer Biomet Foundation
Zimmer Biomet is committed to our guiding principle of 
giving back to our communities and people in need.
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation is an independent, 
philanthropic, nonprofit organization established in 2018 
to address the needs of our global community. The mission 
of the Zimmer Biomet Foundation is to improve the quality 
of life for our communities by providing resources to help: 
build healthy communities, advance Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Math (STEM) education, provide disaster 
relief and address healthcare disparities while advancing 
diversity, equity and inclusion. Zimmer Biomet continued 
to fund the Zimmer Biomet Foundation with a large 
contribution in 2021, allowing for continued charitable work 
globally.
From supporting Zimmer Biomet team members’ charitable 
programs, to funding community efforts in line with its 
pillars, the Zimmer Biomet Foundation donated nearly $2.7 
million in charitable grants in 2021.
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation continued the Team 
Member Relief Fund to support team members facing 
financial hardship due to personal or catastrophic reasons, 
including COVID-19. Since its inception, the Fund has 
provided more than $1 million in relief grants to team 
members.  
14Zimmer Biomet Medical Missions
Zimmer Biomet donated orthopedic products to 
support more than 15 philanthropic medical mission 
trips in 2021 to help patients in need around the globe. 
Due to the ongoing pandemic, several planned medical 
mission trips were postponed and rescheduled for 
future dates. 
Zimmer Biomet continued our unique partnership 
with Faith in Practice by donating a replenishment of 
implant inventory necessary to continually perform 
charitable surgeries in Guatemala. Faith in Practice 
(www.faithinpractice.org)  is committed to serving 
the poor of Guatemala through short-term medical 
mission trips that take an integrated approach to care 
that strives to reach those in the greatest need.
Zimmer Biomet supported many other organizations-
-including One World Surgery, Bayside Medical 
Missions, Operation Walk, and more--to care for 
underprivileged patients in need in Dominican 
Republic, Honduras, Ecuador, Kenya and more.
Additionally, we continue to support charitable 
surgeries in the U.S. by donating implants through 
Americares. In 2021, Americares was able to 
support approximately 40 charitable surgeries in 
the U.S. with Zimmer Biomet implants. Americares  
(www.americares.org)  saves lives and improves health 
for people affected by poverty or disaster so they can 
reach their full potential.
In addition, the Zimmer Biomet Foundation matched team 
member donations to over 500 nonprofit organizations with 
a dollar-for-dollar match. Nearly $400,000 combined from 
team member contributions and the Foundation match was 
contributed to charities in 2021.
We proudly support team members volunteering in their 
communities and abroad by offering resources to match 
team members with volunteer opportunities and work 
policies that allow them to take the time to support their 
community.  
For the first year collectively capturing data on the 
volunteer program, team members logged close to 3,000 
hours of giving back to their community. Some of those 
organizations include Feed My Starving Children, Prospect 
Hospice Limited, Bumbleance Ireland (Saoirse Foundation) and the United Way. In addition, team members organized 
several collection drives to provide needed items for back-
to-school efforts and help during the holidays.
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation created the Zimmer Biomet 
Scholarship Fund for dependents of team members in the 
U.S. For the inaugural year, 10 recipients were selected 
to receive $2,500 for educational costs toward college 
expenses.
The Foundation continued to contribute to COVID relief 
efforts through Americares, as well as match team member 
donations. Funding was provided to the Red Cross to 
assist with efforts following the flooding in Europe. With 
the earthquake disaster in Haiti in 2021, Zimmer Biomet 
donated external fixation devices to nonprofit organizations 
to help patients in need. Additionally, in late December 
2021, we donated burn care equipment to assist with the 
aftermath of the Haiti fuel truck explosion.  
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation also supported the 
Indiana Chamber Foundation’s Accelerating Indiana 
Vision 2025 program. The initiative has a number of 
important dimensions, including broadband access, urban 
development, K-12 STEM curricula and advancing Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion. The ZBF continued support of STEM-
related activities through the local school system in Warsaw, 
Indiana, home of Zimmer Biomet’s global headquarters.
Zimmer Biomet Corporate Grants
In 2021, Zimmer Biomet provided grants, donations and 
funding for numerous educational and philanthropic 
projects. These included grants to support orthopedic 
post-graduate medical education, including funding 
to OMeGA Medical Grants Association. OMeGA  
(www.omegamedicalgrants.org)  is an independent 
legal entity with a singular mission: to award and 
administer grants for graduate orthopedic medical 
education through an open, accessible process 
designed to safeguard against potential conflicts of 
interest and to ensure transparency in the allocation of 
resources. 
Zimmer Biomet also provided educational grants to 
support independent medical education conferences 
that promote scientific knowledge, medical 
advancement and the delivery of effective healthcare. 
In addition, Zimmer Biomet provided grants to third-
party organizations for independent research to 
advance patient treatment designed for improved 
outcomes.
1516Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation has partnered with many 
nonprofit organizations to advance diversity, equity and 
inclusion, particularly related to disparities and career 
development in healthcare.
As part of the large-scale partnership with the National 
Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
(NAACP) to focus on expanding medical access for people 
of color, our funding has supported the creation of the 
organization’s Learning and Impact Team and seed funding 
to support a partnership with Brookings Institute to develop 
the Black Asset Index.  
Funding was also provided to support programs that 
promote diversity and multiculturalism in medical schools 
and in surgeon professional development, as well as 
industry minority initiatives to raise orthopedic treatment 
awareness and support higher education. One example 
of diversity-related funding is the support we provide to 
The Perry Initiative, which is committed to inspiring young 
women to be leaders in the fields of orthopedic surgery and 
engineering. 
Zimmer Biomet is the Founding Sponsor of Nth 
Dimensions, an educational nonprofit organization created 
to help increase diversity of women and underrepresented 
minorities in the field of orthopedics, including pre-
medical students, medical students and residents. We are 
a corporate partner of the J. Robert Gladden Orthopedic 
Society, a multi-cultural organization with a mission to 
increase diversity within the orthopedic profession. We 
also provide support to the Ruth Jackson Orthopedic 
Society, which is dedicated to advancing the science and 
practice of orthopedic surgery among women, as well as 
the American Association of Latino Orthopedic Surgeons, 
which represents not only members of Latino descent, 
but all orthopedists who treat members of the Latino and 
Hispanic communities.
The Zimmer Biomet Foundation also collaborated with 
Zimmer Biomet’s global Employee Resource Groups to 
support nonprofit organizations that align with the focus of 
each group, and enhance the positive impact we can make 
across all areas of inclusion.
NAACP
https:/ /naacp.org/Nth Dimensions
www.nthdimensions.org
Perry Initiative
https:/ /perryinitiative.org/
Ruth Jackson Orthopedic Society
http:/ /www.rjos.org/
 Access to Healthcare
Movement is Life
Since 2004, Zimmer Biomet has funded initiatives that 
focus on defining and reducing musculoskeletal disparities. 
Movement is Life , a multi-disciplinary coalition, partners 
with thought leaders and national member organizations 
aligned to create sustainable change in marginalized 
populations. The coalition is dedicated to the elimination of 
racial, ethnic, geographic and gender disparities in muscle 
and joint health by promoting physical mobility to improve 
quality of life among African American, Hispanic and rural 
women. 
Movement is Life programs include:
• Operation Change, a community-based public health 
intervention focused on positive behavior modification 
in individuals who suffer from joint pain and chronic 
comorbid conditions such as diabetes and obesity. Due 
to limitations related to COVID-19, in 2021 Movement 
is Life created a monthly, virtual Operation Change 
series focused on educational topics and movement.  
• The “Start Moving Start Living” website that serves 
as a repository for culturally competent patient 
communication tools to raise awareness about the 
health risks associated with immobility in the United 
States. 
• A “Health Disparities” podcast focused on critical 
issues including social determinants of health, 
environmental impact on marginalized communities 
and structural barriers to equitable healthcare. More 
than 1 10 podcasts have been recorded. The podcasts 
can be found on the Movement is Life Caucus website.
• A monthly virtual speaker forum to include nationally 
recognized experts on topics such as political 
determinants of health, structural bias and safety net 
hospitals.
• In 2021, Movement is Life hosted its 1 1th Caucus, 
attracting more than 200 participants including 
policy makers, community advocates, academicians, 
providers, healthcare professionals and patients 
with the goal of educating and elevating critical 
messaging regarding the impact of the coronavirus 
on marginalized communities. The Caucus featured 
many nationally known and published speakers such 
as Daniel Dawes, Garth Graham, Wayne Riley and Elvis 
Francois to address the impact of structural racism and 
social determinants of health. 17Patient Privacy and Data Security
At Zimmer Biomet, the patient is always the patient, and 
never the product. Patient data is used to improve outcomes 
and create value for patients and their care teams through 
our algorithms, systems and products in order to support 
our commitment to the highest standards of patient safety, 
quality and integrity. 
Our commitment to protecting patient and customer data is 
embodied in our four Privacy and Data Security Pillars:
• Privacy.  Privacy is a fundamental human right and we 
maintain robust practices to help ensure that that right 
is protected. Patients and customers decide what they 
share with us.
• Security.  Zimmer Biomet protects the data that 
patients and customers entrust us with through 
strong safeguards. Among other measures, we apply 
encryption in transit and at rest, scheduled annual 
security risk assessments and penetration testing by 
third parties.
• Data usage.  We only use customer and patient data 
to provide the services we have agreed upon, and for 
purposes that are compatible with providing those 
services.  
• Ownership.  We put patients and customers in control 
of their data and have established tools and processes 
that give patients easy options to exercise their rights 
with respect to their personal data.
Privacy
There have never been more opportunities to use 
information collected in the course of treatment to create 
innovative solutions to improve patient outcomes. At the 
same time, the importance of protecting patient privacy 
has never been higher.
Privacy is built into our products and services by design 
and by default. By taking this approach, we accommodate 
privacy in an effective and user-friendly way.
Zimmer Biomet has engaged with OneTrust, the 
industry-leading privacy management solution, to 
embed privacy in our products and services. Our 
mymobility® platform, for example, is supported with 
a dedicated portal for individuals to exercise their 
privacy rights, with user-friendly features such as 
explanatory hovertext, local-language accessibility, 
and automated identity verification. We want to make 
it as easy as possible for patients to communicate their 
privacy preferences.Data Security
Zimmer Biomet implements and verifies stringent 
security requirements to protect data we hold for 
patients and customers. These include a broad 
array of controls, including encryption, third-party 
penetration testing, malware defenses, access 
limitations and auditing. We also have our compliance 
with security requirements arising under the Health 
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California 
Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), LGPD (Brazil), China’s 
Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL) and other 
key data protection regulations reviewed and verified 
by third-party experts. We are transparent regarding 
our security controls so that customers can understand 
and document the ways in which their information is 
protected.
Data Usage
Zimmer Biomet ensures that information is only 
collected, used and disclosed for permissible purposes. 
Through our contracts with customers, notice and 
consent forms, and other means, we are transparent 
about the ways we use information to create value for 
patients and providers. We have implemented robust 
policies, procedures and trainings designed to ensure 
that patients’ and customers’ information is being 
handled consistent with those statements.
Ownership
The patient, provider and Zimmer Biomet each have 
rights and responsibilities regarding data collected in 
the course of treatment.
Zimmer Biomet’s customer engagements, patient 
consents and notices and other privacy and information 
security practices are designed to ensure that these 
rights and responsibilities are respected.Cybersecurity
A strong cybersecurity program is essential in today’s 
business landscape and we have continued to invest in 
people, processes and next generation cybersecurity 
technology solutions to combat this evolving risk. Cyber 
threats are emerging and evolving daily so we continue to 
manage these cyber-risks in alignment with industry best 
practices and frameworks. 
Our commitment to cybersecurity includes a programmatic 
approach aiming to protect the confidentiality, integrity 
and availability of our systems, data and products. This 
continuous process ensures that measures are in place to 
improve and update our cybersecurity program using key 
methods such as independent assessments, penetration 
testing, vulnerabilities scanning and maintaining key 
industry certifications. Zimmer Biomet strives to ensure all third-party vendor management, governance and 
data protection programs are aligned to best practices, 
regulations and standards in order to reduce organizational 
risk.
We have a dedicated global security operations team that 
executes the cybersecurity incident response plan and 
threat management, and conducts regular exercises to 
assure our preparedness and effectiveness. Our global 
cybersecurity awareness program has increased awareness 
of cyber threats for users and we continue to share best 
practices with all our team members. 
The cybersecurity program is led by Zimmer Biomet’s Chief 
Information Security Officer and the Chief Information 
Officer, and regular progress updates are presented to the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
1819
Corporate Governance
We are committed to effective corporate governance, 
adhering to the highest ethical standards and acting as a 
responsible member of our communities. 
Our business is managed under the direction of our Board 
of Directors, which has responsibility for establishing broad 
corporate policies and for our overall performance.  
As of March 1, 2022, our Board is made up of 10 Directors 
who have been nominated based on their skills, experiences, 
backgrounds and the needs of the Board and our Company. 
Every Director must stand for election annually. At all 
times, a majority of the Board of Directors must meet the 
criteria for independence established by applicable laws 
and regulations and the New York Stock Exchange. All of 
our Directors, except our Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer, are independent. 
Directors are recruited to strengthen the Board’s diversity 
and ensure that the Board reflects and understands the 
diverse perspectives of Zimmer Biomet’s stakeholders 
around the globe. Three of our ten Directors (30%) are 
women, three (30%) are ethnically diverse, one (10%) 
identifies as LGBTQ+, and four (40%) were born outside the 
United States. Additionally, of our four Board committees, 
one (25%) is chaired by a woman.
The Board recognizes the importance of having a 
strong independent Board leadership structure to 
ensure accountability. Accordingly, our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines provide for the appointment of 
a Lead Independent Director when the Chairman is not 
independent. The Board believes that a Lead Independent 
Director is an integral part of our Board structure and 
facilitates the effective performance of the Board in its role 
of providing governance and oversight. 
Among other duties and responsibilities, the Lead 
Independent Director convenes and presides at meetings 
of the independent Directors, including executive sessions of the independent Directors held in conjunction with each 
regularly scheduled Board meeting, reviews and provides 
input on meeting agendas for the Board and its committees, 
and provides feedback on the flow of information from 
management to the Board. The Lead Independent Director 
is also available, as appropriate, for direct communication 
with shareholders.
Zimmer Biomet has developed risk management processes 
designed to promote long-term shareholder value with 
oversight by the Board of Directors. Sustainability topics 
are incorporated into our risk management processes, 
and various executive leadership team members have 
responsibility for implementing processes designed to 
identify, evaluate, mitigate and monitor risks. Reviews 
of key risks occur at regularly scheduled meetings of the 
Board of Directors and its committees. The Board executes 
its oversight responsibility for risk management directly 
and through its committees:
Audit Committee
Oversight Areas:
• The integrity of our financial statements
• The performance of our Internal Audit function
• Our compliance with legal and regulatory 
requirements
• Our Corporate Compliance Program
• Privacy, data security, business continuity and 
cybersecurity-related risk exposures
Compensation and Management  
Development Committee
Oversight Areas:
• The compensation of our senior executives
• Our incentive and equity-based compensation plans 
and programs
• Senior management talent and development plans (in 
conjunction with the full Board)
• Our policies and strategies relating to human capital 
management (in conjunction with the full Board)
GOVERNANCE20Corporate Governance Committee
Oversight Areas:
• Our public policy, government relations and advocacy 
activities
• Our sustainability activities, including initiatives 
related to the environment and climate change
• Our community relations activities and charitable 
contributions, including the underlying philosophy, 
goals and purposes of our contribution activities
• Our initiatives related to promoting access to 
healthcare and other social responsibility issues
Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee
Oversight Areas:
• Product quality and safety
• Risks relating to our compliance with laws and 
regulations enforced by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration and comparable foreign government 
regulators
• Research, innovation and technology initiatives
Executive Compensation
Our executives receive fixed compensation (base salary), 
as well as short-term and long-term performance-based 
compensation. Applicable performance metrics and targets 
align executives’ interests with those of Zimmer Biomet 
shareholders and are approved by the Compensation and 
Management Development Committee of our Board of 
Directors.
We are committed to the highest standards of patient safety 
and quality in our products and services and to world-class 
integrity and ethical business practices. In support of this 
commitment, and to drive accountability for compliance 
with, and sustained improvements in, our global quality 
system, the Compensation and Management Development 
Committee included a global quality bonus modifier 
component to executives’ annual cash incentive plan in 
2021. The modifier was designed such that, based on the 
achievement of specified global quality metrics related to 
our FDA inspection results, it could result in a decrease (but not an increase) to executives’ 2021 bonus payouts by up to 
5%. In 2021, across our global network, we received no new 
FDA Warning Letters and our average number of Form 483 
observations per inspection was less than 3.0. As a result, 
the global quality bonus modifier had no impact on our 
executives’ 2021 bonus payouts.
For more information on our executive compensation 
philosophy and programs, please see our 2022 proxy 
statement .
Ethical Business Conduct
We are committed to being a leader in the area of ethics and 
compliance. Every day, we strive for the highest standards 
of patient safety, quality and integrity in all that we do. 
Whether working with surgeons, regulators, distributors, 
partners or fellow team members, we know that what we do 
to contribute to our mission is as important as how we do it. 
Our commitment to doing business with integrity is guided 
by the comprehensive compliance policies and procedures 
that help team members and business partners navigate 
the applicable laws, regulations and industry codes, as well 
as Zimmer Biomet’s own ethical standards. These standards 
are outlined in Zimmer Biomet’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics. 
The Code defines Zimmer Biomet’s approach to delivering 
high performance with high integrity, and articulates 
the ethical standards by which team members are held 
accountable. It also guides and inspires positive interactions 
with customers and with people in the communities in 
which we live and work.
So that every team member understands and is accountable 
for our Code, and has access to it, it is available online in 
33 languages. Zimmer Biomet also requires training for 
all newly hired team members within the first 60 days of 
employment and retrains all team members annually.
21
In 2021, 100% of team members put their collective integrity 
into action, successfully completing the Code of Business 
Conduct & Ethics training in addition to Conflicts of Interest 
and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption trainings.
100%
COMPLETED
ETHICS TRAININGIn 2021: 
• 100 percent of team 
members successfully 
completed the Code  
of Business Conduct  
& Ethics training
Annually, we mark our commitment to the highest levels 
of integrity and ethical business practices by hosting 
“Compliance Week”. The intent is to maintain and increase 
awareness about the Compliance program and the 
resources available, further strengthening our compliance 
culture by engaging team members in activities and 
communications that promote ethics and integrity. 
In 2021, the format for Zimmer Biomet’s sixth annual 
Compliance Week celebration was largely virtual due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Team members participated in group 
video watch parties of two thought-provoking and engaging 
discussions about the importance of raising concerns and 
how that protects Zimmer Biomet, including a review of 
real-life examples where Zimmer Biomet team members 
have spoken up. Locally, team members participated in 
discussions with leaders, meet-and-greet events with 
Compliance team members, and educative trivia contests.
We are also committed to compliance with a variety of 
industry codes designed to ensure that relationships 
with healthcare professionals and other customers 
are conducted in accordance with the highest ethical 
standards and transparency. These codes each recognize 
that adherence to ethical standards and compliance 
with applicable laws is critical to the industry’s ability to 
preserve and promote its collaboration with healthcare 
professionals and serve to clarify and distinguish between 
appropriate and inappropriate activity between healthcare 
professionals and companies.
Without reservation, Zimmer Biomet strongly endorses the 
spirit and the letter of the industry codes for associations of 
which Zimmer Biomet is a member, including:• ABHI (UK) 
• ABIMED Code of Conduct (Brazil)
• ABIMO (Brazil)
• ABRAIDI (Brazil)
• AdvaMed China (China)
• AdvaMed Code of Ethics (United States)
• American Medical Devices and Diagnostics 
Manufacturers’ Association (Japan) 
• AMID (Mexico)
• APOMED (Portugal) 
• ARTED (Turkey)
• Austromed: Verhaltenskodex (Austria)
• beMedTech (Belgium)
• BVMed: Kodex Medizinprodukte (Germany)
• CANIFARMA (Mexico)
• Confindustria dispositivi medici (Italy)
• CZECHMED (Czech Republic) 
• Fenin Code of Ethics (Spain)
• IMEDA (CIS) 
• Instituto Ética Saúde (Brazil)
• Korea Medical Devices Industry Association (Korea) 
• Mecomed Code of Ethical Business Practice  
(Middle East)
• Medical Technology Association of India (India) 
• Medical Technology Industry Group (Singapore) 
• Medicoindustrien (Denmark)
• MedTech Europe: Code of Ethical Business Practice
• MedTech Sweden (Sweden)
• MTAA Code of Practice (Australia) 
• MTANZ Code of Practice (New Zealand) 
• Nefemed (Netherlands)
• ORDER (Turkey) 
• Salib-MedTech (Finland) 
• SAMED: Medical Device Code of Ethical Marketing 
and Business Practice (South Africa)
• SNITEM (France)
• Swiss Medtech (Switzerland)
• Thai Medical Device Technology Industry 
Association (Thailand)
Countering Corruption
The cornerstone of our best-in-class compliance program 
is Zimmer Biomet’s commitment to ensuring that team 
members and business partners conduct themselves 
ethically and in compliance with all applicable laws, 
regulations, industry codes, and our own policies, including 
refraining from any bribery, kickback or corruption-related 
activities. We have established anti-bribery and anti-corruption 
policies and procedures that cover, among other things, 
interactions with healthcare providers and government 
officials. These policies and procedures are reinforced 
by a robust, interactive, annual training program as well 
as periodic auditing and monitoring. Zimmer Biomet 
has a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to bribery and 
corruption. 
Zimmer Biomet’s Global Third-Party Compliance team 
supports and monitors business partners, such as 
distributors, to help ensure they adhere to the same 
ethical standards as our team members. Zimmer Biomet 
also performs anti-corruption due diligence prior to 
engaging a third party, and periodically during the course 
of our relationship with a third-party, in addition to third-
party compliance audits. In 2021, we introduced a new 
due diligence platform that provides improved real-time 
visibility of the due diligence process, a more user-friendly 
interface and enhanced reporting capabilities.
Zimmer Biomet also has a dedicated global compliance 
investigations team staffed by experienced anti-corruption 
investigators who manage and conduct all compliance 
investigations.   
Whistleblower Program
Team members, business partners, customers and 
members of the public are encouraged and empowered to 
speak up when they become aware of behavior that may be 
in violation of Zimmer Biomet’s policies, applicable laws, or 
industry practices. 
Every team member and business partner has a 
responsibility as outlined in the Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics to be a voice of integrity. 
In 2021, Zimmer Biomet introduced the new “Speak Up 
Hotline” where concerns can be raised confidentially or 
anonymously, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The 
“Speak Up Hotline” replaced a prior compliance hotline 
platform that had been utilized for many years.Team members can use the hotline to report any concern 
about a known or potential violation, concerns about safety 
in the workplace, potential discrimination or harassment, 
unethical behavior by another team member or a third-
party vendor or distributor, falsification of documents or 
misuse of Zimmer Biomet resources.
In addition to the “Speak Up Hotline”, concerns can also be 
raised directly to managers or Compliance or HR business 
partners.
Zimmer Biomet prohibits retaliation against anyone 
who makes a good faith report of a known or suspected 
compliance or legal issue. Retaliation in any form is 
unacceptable and not tolerated. 
Our Compliance team tracks and oversees all reported 
concerns from investigation to resolution. We have 
instituted a robust and rigorous remediation process to 
ensure appropriate corrective actions are implemented 
following all substantiated investigations, such as team 
member separations, documented warnings and retraining. 
The Hotline Investigations Steering Committee guides and 
ensures consistent disciplinary decision-making of these 
actions. In addition, the Audit Committee of our Board of 
Directors receives frequent reports on hotline complaints, 
investigations and corrective actions.
In 2021, there were more than 90 compliance concerns 
reported and investigated. We had 100% completion of 
all remediation activities arising from these compliance 
investigations, in addition to audits and monitoring. 
 
100%
COMPLETION
REMEDIATION
ACTIVITIES
2223Ethical Marketing
Zimmer Biomet is committed to marketing our products 
and services truthfully, responsibly and professionally. 
We engage in marketing activities to, among other things, 
announce the availability of new products and services, 
reinforce existing customer choices, differentiate Zimmer 
Biomet products and services from other products and 
services in the marketplace, and increase awareness 
of medical technologies and treatments to healthcare 
professionals (HCPs), patients and others. 
All marketing activities conducted by Zimmer Biomet must 
have a commercially reasonable and legitimate business 
purpose, and cannot involve cash, fees or other forms 
of compensation provided directly or indirectly to HCPs 
or public officials. Marketing activities are also expected 
to be separate from any company-sponsored training or 
education program. We do not use marketing to improperly 
influence purchasing, leasing, recommendation, use, 
prescription or coverage decisions associated with our 
products and services.Zimmer Biomet’s Statement of 
Engagement on Public Policy Issues 
We operate in a heavily regulated global marketplace and 
it is important to be able to express our views on a variety 
of proposals to policymakers and other stakeholders in 
a transparent manner. These efforts include monitoring 
public policy proposals, analyzing these proposals and 
advocating for those policies that enhance patient and 
healthcare provider access to innovative technologies to 
treat debilitating joint pain and musculoskeletal conditions.
Zimmer Biomet is committed to participating constructively 
and responsibly in the public policy process. Government 
policy proposals to regulate the healthcare system may 
directly affect Zimmer Biomet’s business and the incentives 
for innovation. There are also important policy proposals 
that can further our business interests, including those of 
our shareholders. 
Zimmer Biomet actively seeks to inform the debate on these 
proposals in the United States and in other countries. We 
also support policies that advance the interests of patients, 
improve public health and promote access to healthcare 
and innovation.  
Our engagement in the political process is focused on the 
following areas:
• Access to musculoskeletal care
• Transparent, timely, and scientifically-based regulatory 
decision-making
• Market-based payment or reimbursement
• Strong protection of patents and other intellectual 
property rights
• Open and competitive access to international markets
• Tax policies that support innovation and global 
competitiveness 
• Sensible medical malpractice reform
Specific policies of interest to Zimmer Biomet include the 
following:
• Corporate Tax Policy  – Zimmer Biomet supported 
the changes to the U.S. corporate tax code in 2017 , 
which created a more globally competitive system for 
U.S. businesses by lowering the corporate tax rate and 
shifting to a territorial system.  
• Stability in Payment Policies  – As innovation in 
medical technology changes the way that care is 
delivered, Zimmer Biomet supports payment and 
reimbursement policies that ensure stability and 
access for patients, providers, innovators and the 
entire healthcare ecosystem. 
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – Zimmer Biomet 
supports policies that strengthen a diverse and 
inclusive medical technology workforce and ensure 
equitable patient access to innovative devices and 
therapies.  
• Medical Device User Fee Amendments (MDUFA) 
– Zimmer Biomet supports a well-resourced and well-
functioning U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
The long-standing user fee program has helped FDA 
make significant improvements to the regulatory 
approval process for new medical devices. In 2021, 
Zimmer Biomet and its industry trade group began 
negotiations with FDA and Congress regarding 
changes to MDUFA in anticipation of legislation in 
2022. 
• Support for International Trade Agreements  – 
Zimmer Biomet supports trade policy initiatives that 
seek to improve access to medical devices in overseas 
export markets.How Zimmer Biomet Engages
The primary means by which we engage in public policy 
debate is through communication of information to 
government officials, policy makers and their staffs. Zimmer 
Biomet’s Government Affairs office in Washington, D.C. is 
responsible for advocacy activities with the U.S. Congress 
and the Executive Branch, as well as advocacy at the 
state level. The Government Affairs office, which also has 
staff outside the United States, reports to the Senior Vice 
President and General Counsel. Globally, we currently have 
seven full-time employees wholly dedicated to Government 
Affairs matters.    
To assist with its advocacy and policy analysis work, 
Zimmer Biomet occasionally contracts with private firms 
specializing in government affairs advocacy. These firms 
provide the organization with expertise on issues that are 
important to Zimmer Biomet and our shareholders.
In compliance with the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act , 
Zimmer Biomet files quarterly reports with the U.S. 
Congress describing our advocacy activities in Washington, 
D.C. and the amount of money spent each quarter to 
support these activities. These reports also include the cost 
of maintaining the Government Affairs office in Washington, 
D.C. and the portion of Zimmer Biomet’s trade association 
dues associated with advocacy activities. To view Zimmer 
Biomet’s quarterly lobbying expenditures, click on the 
above link and search for Zimmer Biomet under registrant.
All Zimmer Biomet team members and agents must abide 
by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This Code 
covers a wide range of business practices and procedures, 
and is designed to deter wrongdoing and promote the 
highest ethical standards.  Among other things, the Code 
makes clear that no illegal payments of any kind (monetary 
or otherwise) are to be offered or made to an individual or 
entity—including officials or employees of national, state, 
local or foreign governments or national or foreign political 
candidates—at any time or under any circumstances.
24Industry Groups and Trade Associations
We have membership in several industry and trade 
groups and we work with these groups on a variety of 
issues of importance to Zimmer Biomet and the medical 
device industry. These groups can help the industry reach 
consensus on policy issues and be more effective with issue 
advocacy. 
With Zimmer Biomet representatives on the boards and 
committees of industry groups and associations, we can 
ask questions and voice concerns about policy or related 
activities. At times, we may not agree fully with the views of 
these associations or their individual member companies; 
in such instances, Zimmer Biomet reserves the right to 
remove itself from related association or industry group 
activities when we determine it is appropriate to do so.
Following is a list of U.S. industry and trade groups of which 
Zimmer Biomet is a member and for which we pay at least 
$25,000 per year in membership fees, with the percentage 
of fees attributable to non-tax deductible, federal lobbying 
expenditures noted in italics: 
• Advanced Medical Technology Association  
(AdvaMed) – 10%
• Medical Device Competitiveness Coalition  
(MDCC) – 100% 
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce – 20-25% 
Political Contributions
Zimmer Biomet’s policies prohibit contributions of 
corporate funds to candidates, political party committees 
and political action committees. Contributions by Zimmer 
Biomet’s Political Action Committee (Z-PAC) – which is 
supported entirely by voluntary contributions made by 
eligible employees and non-employee directors – support 
candidates, parties or committees whose views on specific 
issues are consistent with Zimmer Biomet’s priorities. The 
Z-PAC is governed by an Advisory Committee consisting of 
representatives from across the Company’s U.S. business 
units and business functions. The Advisory Committee 
reviews Z-PAC activities and establishes policies and 
priorities.The Z-PAC contributes to candidates and political 
committees on a bi-partisan basis, and does not make 
contributions in connection with U.S. Presidential elections. 
Contribution decisions are not made to reflect the personal 
political views or interests of senior management. In 
deciding whom to support, consideration is given to 
candidates who represent the communities Zimmer Biomet 
serves, those who serve on relevant committees or in 
leadership and those who have shown support for policies 
and initiatives of importance to the U.S. 
Z-PAC contribution guidelines also emphasize the character 
and integrity of candidates, including the candidate’s 
position on issues that may impair Zimmer Biomet’s 
corporate reputation or are contrary to its values, such as 
the candidate’s positions and record in the area of diversity, 
equity and inclusion. Contributions made by the Z-PAC 
are, as required by law, reported in filings with the Federal 
Election Commission (FEC). The most recent FEC report is 
available here .
Following the events of January 6, 2021 at the U.S. Capitol 
in Washington, DC, we halted our Z-PAC contributions, but 
these contributions have since been partially reinstated. We 
continue to review our contribution decisions to ensure that 
our contribution strategy remains in line with the criteria 
outlined above.
252021 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
We are proud to publish Zimmer Biomet’s first Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index. This reflects our 
continued commitment to our sustainability efforts and increased transparency in our sustainability disclosures.
Topic Code SASB Metric 2021 Reporting
Affordability & Pricing HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each 
product is disclosed to customers or to their 
agentsIn the United States, a customer will typically 
engage with a local sales representative who 
will work with their local office to provide 
pricing for products the customer is interested 
in purchasing. Larger systems issue RFPs, which 
Zimmer Biomet responds and then enters into 
a formal agreement. Pricing is communicated 
during the contract process and can either 
be shared by hard copy (local, state or federal 
government accounts), email or through 
electronic interchanges. 
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled 5 recalls in 2021.
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products as 
reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User 
Facility Device ExperienceNone
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken 
in response to violations of current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeIn 2021, Zimmer Biomet did not receive any 
warning letters, seizures or consent decrees.
Ethical Marketing HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result 
of legal proceedings associated with false 
marketing claimsNone
Ethical Marketing HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing 
promotion of off-label use of productsPlease see page 26
Product Design & 
Lifecycle ManagementHC-MS- 410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and 
manage environmental and human health 
considerations associated with chemicals in 
products, and meet demand for sustainable 
productsN/A
Product Design & 
Lifecycle ManagementHC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for takeback 
and reused, recycled, or donated, broken down 
by: 1) devices and equipment and 2) suppliesNone
26Topic Code SASB Metric 2021 Reporting
Supply Chain 
ManagementHC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of 1) entity's facilities and 2) tier I 
suppliers' facilities participating in third-party 
audit programs for manufacturing and product 
quality100% of Zimmer Biomet manufacturing 
sites are audited by a third party and are ISO 
certified. 50% of Tier 1 suppliers are audited 
by a third party. The highest risk suppliers are 
audited by a third party as part of their ISO 
certification or are audited by a Zimmer Biomet 
facility. Those suppliers not participating in 
third-party audit programs have been vetted as 
the lowest risk,  given the minimal likelihood of 
severity to the Zimmer Biomet quality system 
based on a failure of the product or service to 
meet specifications.
Supply Chain 
ManagementHC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability 
within the distribution chainZimmer Biomet and all distributors, including 
all sales and office staff, are required to 
implement identification and traceability 
controls. Distribution records must include 
the customer's name, address, part number, 
control number, date and quantity shipped. 
The distribution record is maintained by 
Zimmer Biomet from the time of receipt 
through storage, handling and distribution 
until the product is implanted into a patient, 
permanently retired from use or permanently 
disposed.
Supply Chain 
ManagementHC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks 
associated with the use of critical materialsPlease see page 15
Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with bribery or 
corruptionNone
Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing 
interactions with health care professionalsPlease see page 27
For ESG surveys please contact surveys@zimmerbiomet.com
For ESG inquiries please contact Keri Mattox at keri.mattox@zimmerbiomet.com   
or Ezgi Yagci at ezgi.yagci@zimmerbiomet.com  
27©2022 Zimmer Biomet | www.zimmerbiomet.com  | 3821.1-GLBL-en-Issue Date 2022-04