ENVIRONMENTAL  |  SOCIAL  |  GOVERNANCE  SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCOMPANY PROFILE  Corporate Overview  .
1    Mission and Guiding Principles.
2    Our Sustainability Commitment .
ENVIRONMENTAL  Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability Program .
Goals and Accomplishments  .
4    External Reporting Standards .
5   Health and Safety Performance .
5    Environmental Performance .
Manufacturing  .
Supplier Management  .
6    Quality and Product Safety  .
SOCIAL  Talent Management .
7    Recent Awards and Recognition  .
Volunteer Activities  .
9    Work/Life Balance and Wellness .
9    Diversity and Inclusion .
9    Supplier Diversity  .
9    Grants, Donations and Funding .
10 -  GOVERNANCE  Corporate Governance .
13    Ethics and Compliance  .
14    CEO and Senior Executive Compensation  .
15    Affiliations and Memberships  .
15TABLE OF CONTENTS   Corporate Overview Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer  Biomet is a global leader in musculoskeletal healthcare.
We design,  manufacture and market orthopedic reconstructive products; sports  medicine, biologics, extremities and trauma products; office based  technologies; spine, craniomaxillofacial and thoracic products; dental  implants; and related surgical products.
We collaborate with healthcare professionals around the globe to  advance the pace of innovation.
Our products and solutions help treat  patients suffering from disorders of, or injuries to, bones, joints or  supporting soft tissues.
Together with healthcare professionals, we help  millions of people live better lives.
We have operations in more than 25 countries around the world and sell  products in more than 100 countries.
COMPANYPROFILE 2019 Sustainability Report | 12019 Sustainability Report  | 3Our Mission Alleviate pain and improve the quality of life for people around the world.
Guiding Principles • Respect the contributions and perspectives of all  Team Members.
• Commit to the highest standards of patient safety,  quality and integrity.
• Focus our resources in areas where we will make   a difference.
• Ensure the Company’s return is equivalent to the  value we provide our customers and patients.
• Give back to our communities and people in need.Our Sustainability Commitment Zimmer Biomet is committed to being a good corporate  citizen.
Our global team is dedicated to sustainable practices  across the entire spectrum of the environmental, social and  governance platform.Environmental, Health, Safety   and Sustainability (EHSS) Program Zimmer Biomet exercises responsible resource  stewardship by proactively identifying ways we can   reduce our energy consumption and strictly adhere  to water management guidelines.
We reduce waste  generation by recycling, reprocessing or re-using  byproducts and managing waste.
Our team members  implement LEAN manufacturing/Six Sigma principles   and we provide green  team training.
Zimmer Biomet’s Environmental Management System  (EMS) is consistent with international standards.
Third- party audits are conducted periodically to validate the  effectiveness of our EMS.
In addition to third-party audits,  our EHS staff conducts internal EHS audits.
All audit results  are communicated to executive management and analyzed  for improvement opportunities.
The Zimmer Biomet  Environmental Health and Safety Management System   is comprised of ten sections:• Program Management and Accountability • Risk Assessment and Hazard Control and Aspect  Identification and Control • Risk Control Programs • Employee Engagement and Communications • Environment, Health and Safety Training and  Certification • Emergency Preparedness and Response • Environmental, Health and Safety Incident  Investigation • Management of Non-Zimmer Biomet Employees • Management System Audits • Legal, Reporting and Other RequirementsENVIRONMENTAL 2 | 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report | 34 | 2019 Sustainability Report External Reporting Standards We recognize the importance of disclosing our  sustainability performance.
We reference the following  independent organizations to help us understand and  communicate the potential impact of our business on  critical sustainability issues: Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): cdp.net Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): globalreporting.org TruCost: trucost.com Health and Safety Performance We are committed to providing a safe and healthy work  environment for our team members.
Workplace and job  analyses are conducted according to our EHS Management  System to ensure and improve health and safety on the   job.
Our 2019 total record able incident rate was 0.47 .
Teams across Zimmer Biomet are working toward a   Zero Recordable Incident target.Environmental Performance After Zimmer and Biomet merged in 2015, operating  results were collected from 22 Zimmer Biomet  manufacturing sites with a potential environmental impact.
These results are being used to track key contributors to  our overall environmental footprint to help identify best  practices and opportunities for improvement.
Goals and Accomplishments Zimmer Biomet is measuring its effect on the environment  by harmonizing an environmental sustainability strategy  across its global manufacturing network.
The key metrics are: • Greenhouse gas emissions calculated equivalent to  carbon dioxide (CO2-e)  • Water consumption • Hazardous waste generation • Wastes that become landfilled  Energy audits have been conducted throughout the global  manufacturing network to identify sites with high energy  consumption and focus efforts on managing those sources  with greater efficiency.
Several sites are focusing on and  achieving energy reductions with the installation of higher  efficiency compressed air systems, improved control of  heating and air conditioning systems and the installation of  LED lighting.
Zimmer Biomet’s corporate Energy and Water  Management Requirements contain policies and  provisions that drive resource management leadership,  measurement, analysis and continuous improvement.
The  collection of key metrics provides informed and on-track  information to address negative trends through a plan/do/ check/act philosophy.
Zimmer Biomet voluntarily participates in the Carbon  Disclosure Project and Water Disclosure Project so data  is transparent and public.
In this way, stakeholders can  review information on these two key metrics and compare  Zimmer Biomet to other companies in the medical device  industry.
One of Zimmer Biomet’s long-term commitments is to  become a zero-to-landfill company.
We have made good  strides in reducing landfill waste.
Locating partners  in the byproduct management arena, the Company is  researching avenues to recycle byproducts that cannot be  completely eliminated.
Since 201 1, Zimmer Biomet has been a corporate  sponsor of ACRES Land Trust, Indiana’s oldest and  largest membership-based nonprofit land conservation  organization.
ACRES protects more than 6,700 acres  of forests, wetlands, grasslands and unique geological  features in more than 100 nature preserves, many of which  are open to the public.Carbon Disclosure   Project  CLIMATE CHANGE   SCORE PROGRESSION: 2019: B - 2018: B - 2017: C 2016: D 2015: E 1 Source: Carbon Disclosure Project, cdp.net 2019 Sustainability Report | 5 4 | 2019 Sustainability Report2019 Waste and Recycling Waste and Recycling Total Waste Lbs.
Recycled Waste  12,451,Non-Hazardous/   Landfill Waste 6,133, 22 Hazardous Waste  975,29.5% 68.0%2.5% Recycled   WasteNon-Hazardous/ Landfill WasteHazardous   Waste2019 Sustainability Report  | 7 6 | 2019 Sustainability ReportManufacturing We regularly invest in operational improvements to  address resource consumption and conscientiously source  the materials and components we use to manufacture our  products.
We embrace our social responsibilities, while  also delivering value to our customers, their patients and  our stockholders.
Our sustainability objectives focus on six key areas: • Governance: Maintain oversight, systems and  accountability necessary to ensure performance • Team member engagement: Provide encouragement  and resources focused on performance improvement • Energy and climate change: Optimize energy  performance and realize cost savings by  implementing best practice energy programs • Resource conservation: Optimize efficient use  of natural resources in a manner that addresses  stakeholder interests • Product life cycle: Minimize environmental impacts  along the product life cycle • External engagement: Improve transparency and  engagement strategies around environmental  excellence that strengthen brand equity Supplier Management Zimmer Biomet is committed to supply chain initiatives,  overall corporate social responsibility and sustainability  efforts that work toward a conflict-free supply chain.
We  encourage our suppliers to also support these efforts that  are outlined in our Code of Supplier Conduct.
The Company supports actions to increase supply chain  transparency.
We file a Conflict Minerals Disclosure  Report annually with the U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission (SEC) pursuant to the requirements of the  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection  Act.
Our policy statement on conflict minerals can be found at:  investor.zimmerbiomet.com/corporate-governance .
Quality and Product Safety Patients and healthcare professionals alike rely on the  quality of our products.
We take that trust seriously and  have adopted and implemented regulatory compliant  systems and processes to ensure the highest standards   of quality and safety.
Zimmer Biomet’s Quality Management System (QMS)  is ISO 13485-certified.
This internationally-recognized  standard for regulatory compliance requires that we  establish and maintain effective processes and ensures   the consistent design, development, production,  installation and delivery of our products.
Team members play a key role in improving Zimmer  Biomet’s quality assurance systems and processes.
We  must adhere to applicable laws, regulations, policies and  procedures, and we are expected to raise questions and  voice concerns about issues that may affect the quality or  safety of our products.SOCIAL Talent Management Zimmer Biomet supports a fair and competitive work  environment and is dedicated to attracting and retaining  the best talent.
We hire, compensate and promote based  on qualifications, experience and skills.
We offer all team  members globally a performance-based annual bonus  opportunity that reflects relevant financial metrics.
We respect the human rights, dignity and privacy of the  individual.
We follow applicable labor laws and do not allow  child labor, forced labor or trafficking by Zimmer Biomet or  its business partners.
We welcome diversity among our team members.
We are  committed to providing equal employment opportunities  for all of our team members without regard to race, color,  creed, religion, national origin, citizenship, gender, gender  identity, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, age,  medical condition, disability or military or veteran status.
We are committed to helping our team members achieve  their full potential.
Our leadership team performs  formal talent succession reviews annually, following the  performance review process.
Importantly, we offer multiple leadership training and  skills development programs.
Several targeted leadership  programs have been developed, including the Leading@ ZB Leadership Development Program, as well as a broader  set of skills development courses, including on-demand  e-learning courses and open enrollment instructor-led  courses.
In addition, we offer financial assistance for  continuing education.
We use surveys to monitor team member engagement.
In 2019, we conducted numerous Pulse team member  surveys to provide guidance for improvement on various  key topics.
To help identify and develop talent, we partner with a  host of organizations and local non-profit entities, as well  as universities, colleges and high schools.
We provide  representation on local councils to identify current and  future talent gaps and work with educational institutions  to ensure that curricula are designed to train and develop  skills that are needed to support the orthopedic industry.
Examples include collegiate and high school co-op and  intern programs, as well as machinist training.
We also  offer a variety of development programs for new college  graduates.
2019 Sustainability Report | 7 6 | 2019 Sustainability ReportVolunteer Activities Zimmer Biomet is dedicated to its team members and to  the communities in which we live and work.
We encourage  our team members to actively participate in volunteer  organizations and projects.
In 2019, team members  volunteered in many activities, including Big Brothers Big  Sisters, STEM Education and Robotics and United Way’s  Day of Action.
Work/Life Balance and Wellness Zimmer Biomet recognizes that a balance in work and life  is vital.
Our full-time team members receive paid holidays  and paid time off that is based on length of service.
When  life events occur, such as the birth or adoption of a child or  the loss of a loved one, team members receive paid time off  to focus on their families.
We also realize the importance  of a healthy lifestyle, so we offer Wellness programs to  provide team members with professional help for guidance  and support.
Diversity and Inclusion At Zimmer Biomet, we believe that in order to succeed,  everyone must feel valued and respected.
Innovation is in  our roots.
By recognizing, supporting and drawing from  a rich variety of perspectives, experiences, backgrounds,  capabilities and lifestyles, we will continue to lead  in innovation.
That is why we embrace diversity and  encourage inclusion every single day.
This allows us to  develop products of the highest quality, transform patient  care and stay at the forefront of our industry.
Supplier Diversity A diverse supply chain strengthens our ability to carry  out our mission and improve the communities where we  live and work.
Annually, we report spending with certain  diverse suppliers, such as the following: • Historically Underutilized Business Zone Small  Business (HUBZone) • Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business  (SDVOSB) • Small Business (SB) • Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) • Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB) • Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) 2019 Sustainability Report | 9 8 | 2019 Sustainability ReportRecent Awards and Recognition Medical Device and Diagnostic Industry    (MD+DI)  publication selected Zimmer Biomet   as the 2019 Medtech Company of the Year.Computerworld named   Zimmer Biomet as one of the   100 Best Places to Work in IT.
Forbes  recognized Zimmer Biomet   in the first-ever ranking of America’s Best   Employers by State, honoring the   organizations liked best by employees.Zimmer Biomet China was awarded   the Top Employers China certification   by the Top Employers Institute   (top-employers.com).
Zimmer Biomet’s Warsaw, Indiana headquarters  is wholly powered by renewable, green energy in  compliance with the U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency’s (EPA) Green Power Partnership program.In 2019, Zimmer Biomet provided grants, donations and  funding for numerous educational and philanthropic  projects.
These included grants to support orthopedic  post-graduate medical education, including funding  to OMeGA Medical Grants Association.
OMeGA is an  independent legal entity with a singular mission:  To award  and administer grants for graduate orthopedic medical  education through an open, accessible process designed  to safeguard against potential conflicts of interest and to  ensure transparency in the allocation of resources.
Zimmer Biomet also provided educational grants to  support independent medical education conferences that  promote scientific knowledge, medical advancement and  the delivery of effective healthcare.
In addition, Zimmer  Biomet provided grants to third party organizations for  independent research to advance patient treatment  designed for improved outcomes.
Funding was also provided to support programs that  promote diversity and multiculturalism in medical schools  and in surgeon professional development, as well as  industry minority initiatives to raise orthopedic treatment  awareness and support higher education.
One example  of diversity-related funding is the support we provide  to The Perry Initiative, which is committed to inspiring  young women to be leaders in the fields of orthopedic  surgery and engineering.
Zimmer Biomet was one of the  host sites for local high school students to participate in a  one-day hands on program to learn directly from medical  professionals and engineers.
Zimmer Biomet is the Founding Sponsor of Nth  Dimensions, an educational non-profit organization  created to help increase diversity of women and  underrepresented minorities in the field of orthopedics,  including pre-medical, medical students and residents.
We are a corporate partner of the J.
Robert Gladden  Orthopaedic Society, a multi-cultural organization with  a mission to increase diversity within the orthopedic  profession.
We also provide support to the Ruth Jackson  Orthopedic Society, which is dedicated to advancing the  science and practice of orthopedic surgery among women;  as well as the American Association of Latino Orthopaedic  Surgeons, which represents not only members of Latino  descent, but all orthopedists who treat members of the  Latino and Hispanic communities.
2019 Sustainability Report  | 11 10 | 2019 Sustainability ReportGrants, Donations and Funding FOUNDATION Zimmer Biomet created the Zimmer Biomet Foundation in late 2018 and provided initial funding in support of charitable efforts.
As an independent, philanthropic and non-profit organization, the Zimmer Biomet Foundation improves the quality of life for  our communities by providing resources to help:  Build Healthy Communities; Advance STEM education; and Provide Disaster  Relief.
Numerous organizations received support from the Zimmer Biomet Foundation throughout 2019.
Zimmer Biomet  continued to fund the Foundation with a $2 million contribution in late 2019 allowing the Foundation to continue charitable  work around the country.
Zimmer Biomet provided donations and funding to various organizations to support community and global projects in 2019,  including: American Red Cross  redcross.orgArthritis Foundation arthritis.orgBeaman Home thebeamanhome.comBig Brothers Big Sisters bbbs.org Cardinal Services cardinalservices.orgCombined Community Services combinedcommunityservices.orgKosciusko Community YMCA   kcymca.orgLilly Center for Lakes & Streams lakes.grace.edu The Watershed Foundation watershedfoundation.orgUnited Way unitedway.orgWarsaw Community Schools warsaw.k12.in.us Zimmer Biomet donated orthopedic products to support more than 40 philanthropic medical mission trips in 2019 to help  patients in need around the globe.
Zimmer Biomet continued to partner with Faith in Practice by donating a replenishment   of implant inventory necessary to continually perform charitable surgeries in Guatemala.
Additionally, we continue to support  charitable surgeries in the U.S. by donating implants through AmeriCares and the Operation Walk USA program.
americares Saves lives and improves health for people   affected by poverty or disaster   so they can reach their full potential.
americares.orgFaith in Practice Committed to serving the poor of Guatemala   through short-term medical mission trips   that take an integrated approach to care   that strives to reach those in the greatest need.
faithinpractice.orgOperation Walk USA Helps patients to become mobile.
opwalkusa.com2019 Sustainability Report  | 13 12 | 2019 Sustainability ReportGOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Zimmer Biomet is committed to good corporate  governance and believes that an attentive, performing  Board of Directors is a tangible competitive advantage.
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines ( investor.
zimmerbiomet.com/corporate-governance )  assist the Board in monitoring the effectiveness of policy  and decision-making both at the Board and management  level, with a view to enhancing stockholder value over the  long term.
In the United States, we advocate for tax, financial,  regulatory and other key policies on the state and  federal levels.
As required by U.S. law, we file mid-year  contribution reports and quarterly lobbying activity  reports with the United States federal government  regarding these activities.
These reports are publicly  available and can be found on the internet.
2019 Sustainability Report | 13 12 | 2019 Sustainability ReportSince 2004, Zimmer Biomet has funded initiatives  that focus on defining and reducing musculoskeletal  disparities.
Movement is Life , a multi-disciplinary coalition,  partners with thought leaders and national member  organizations aligned to create sustainable change in  marginalized populations.
The Movement  is dedicated to  the elimination of racial, ethnic and gender disparities in  muscle and joint health by promoting physical mobility to  improve quality of life among African American, Hispanic  and Rural American women.
Operation Change, a Movement  program, is a community- based public health intervention focused on positive  behavior modification in individuals who suffer from joint  pain and chronic comorbid conditions such as diabetes  and obesity.
In 2019, this signature program expanded to  five cities across the United States, focusing on ethnically- concordant programming with physical activity, health  education, nutrition, motivational interviewing and  language.
The San Diego cohort was conducted entirely in  Spanish, while the Hazard, Ky. program was multi-ethnic.
As a result of the program, participants built trust and  understanding around their health and built accountability  with other participants.
Movement is Life  maintains a website, “Start Moving  Start Living” which serves as a repository for culturally  competent patient communication tools to raise awareness  about the health risks associated with immobility in the  United States.
Zimmer Biomet is dedicated to improving  access to musculoskeletal care for all by working through  the parallel channels of patient education, policy  development, community programs and provider training.
In 2019, Movement is Life  hosted its 10th Caucus, attracting  policy makers, community advocates, academicians,  healthcare professionals and patients alike; educating,  engaging and facilitating collaboration amongst  them.
The Caucus has always included a keynote from  renowned leaders: David R.
Williams, Camara P .
Jones,  David Ansell and others to address structural racism and  the long term effects it has on communities.
The health  disparities message reached new heights in 2019 with the  development of the weekly ‘Health Disparities Podcast’  available on the Movement is Life  Caucus website.
The landmark research paper authored with Johns Hopkins  University School of Medicine entitled, “Musculoskeletal  Healthcare Disparities: Influence of Patient Sex, Race, and  Ethnicity on Utilization of Total Joint Arthroplasty,” was  published in the Journal of Long-Term Effects of Medical  Implants in 2019.
The work of Movement is Life  continues to  evolve as we seek to empower patients, providers, policy  makers and communities at large with the tools to reduce  social determinants, improve individual engagement and  dismantle health disparities.2019 Sustainability Report  | 15 14 | 2019 Sustainability ReportEthics and Compliance We are committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards and complying with all applicable laws, regulations, company  policies and industry codes.
We conduct our work and interact with others according to our shared values reflected in Zimmer  Biomet’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics ( investor.zimmerbiomet.com/corporate-governance ).
In addition, we endorse and are committed to complying with  the relevant codes for industry associations of which Zimmer  Biomet is a member, including: • ABIMED Code of Conduct (Brazil) • ABIMO (Brazil) • ABRAIDI (Brazil) • AdvaMed China (China) • AdvaMed Code of Ethics (United States) • American Medical Devices and Diagnostics Manufacturers’  Association (Japan) • AMID (Mexico) • Austromed: Verhaltenskodex (Austria) • BVMed: Kodex Medizinprodukte (Germany) • CANIFARMA (Mexico) • Confindustria dispositivi medici (Italy)• EucoMed Code of Business Practice (EMEA) • Fenin Code of Ethics (Spain) • Instituto Ética Saúde (Brazil) • Korea Medical Devices Industry Association (Korea) • Mecomed Code of Ethical Business Practice (Middle East) • Medical Technology Association of India (India) • Medical Technology Industry Group (Singapore) • MedTech Europe: Code of Ethical Business Practice • MTAA Code of Practice (Australia) • MTANZ (New Zealand) • SAMED: Medical Device Code of Ethical Marketing   and Business Practice (South Africa) • Thai Medical Device Technology Industry Association  (Thailand)CEO and Senior   Executive Compensation Our CEO and senior executives receive fixed compensation  as well as short-term and long-term performance-based  compensation.
Applicable performance metrics and targets  align executives’ interests with those of Zimmer Biomet  stockholders, are approved by the Compensation and  Management Development Committee of the Board of  Directors and reported in our filings with the SEC, which   are publicly available.Affiliations and Memberships Zimmer Biomet is a member of numerous industry and  trade groups.
We work with these groups on a variety of  issues of importance to Zimmer Biomet and the medical  device industry.
These groups can help the industry reach  consensus on policy issues and be more effective with issue  advocacy.
With our representatives on the boards and  committees of industry groups and associations, we can  voice questions or concerns we may have about policy or  related activities.
We are a member of many global industry  and trade groups, some of which are listed below: • Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) • American Medical Diagnostic and Device Manufacturers’  Association (Japan) • BioFlorida • Colorado BioScience Association • Healthcare Institute of New Jersey  • Indiana Chamber of Commerce • Indiana Manufacturers Association • Medical Device Competitiveness Coalition (MDCC) • MedTech Europe (European Union)  • U.S. Chamber of Commerce 2019 Sustainability Report | 15 14 | 2019 Sustainability Report16 | 2019 Sustainability Report ©2020 Zimmer Biomet | www.zimmerbiomet.com | 2846.2-US-en-REV 0620