Sustainability  Report ENVIRONMENTAL    SOCIAL     GOVERNANCECOMPANY PROFILE  Corporate overview  .
1   Mission and guiding principles.
2   Our sustainability commitment  .
ENVIRONMENTAL  Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) program .
Goals and accomplishments  .
4   External reporting standards  .
5   Health and safety performance .
5   Environmental performance  .
Supplier management  .
6   Manufacturing  .
Quality and product safety  .
SOCIAL  Talent management  .
7-8   Recent awards and recognition .
Volunteer activities  .
8   Work/life balance and wellness  .
8   Diversity and inclusion  .
9   Supplier diversity .
9   Grants, donations and funding  .
10 -  GOVERNANCE  Corporate governance  .
12   Ethics and compliance .
13   CEO and senior executive compensation  .
13   Affiliations and memberships  .
13TABLE OF CONTENTS  2018 Sustainability Report  | 1COMPANY PROFILE Corporate overview Founded in 1927 and headquartered  in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer Biomet  is a global leader in musculoskeletal  healthcare.
We design, manufacture  and market orthopedic reconstructive  products; sports medicine, biologics,  extremities and trauma products;  office based technologies; spine,  craniomaxillofacial and thoracic  products; dental implants; and related  surgical products.
We collaborate with healthcare  professionals around the globe   to advance the pace of innovation.
Our products and solutions help treat  patients suffering from disorders of, or  injuries to, bones, joints or supporting  soft tissues.
Together with healthcare  professionals, we help millions of  people live better lives.
Company ProfileMission and guiding principles Our mission Alleviate pain and improve the quality of life for people around the world.
Guiding principles  • Respect the contributions and perspectives of all team members  • Commit to the highest standards of patient safety, quality and integrity  • Focus our resources in areas where we will make a difference  • Ensure the Company’s return is equivalent to the value we provide our customers and patients  • Give back to our communities and people in need Our sustainability commitment Zimmer Biomet is committed to being a good corporate citizen.
Our global team is dedicated to sustainable practices   across the entire spectrum of the environmental, social and governance platform.
2018 Sustainability Report  | 22018 Sustainability Report  | 3Environmental Health   and Safety (EHS) program Zimmer Biomet exercises responsible  resource stewardship by proactively  identifying ways we can reduce our  energy consumption and strictly  adhering to water management  guidelines.
We reduce waste  generation by recycling, reprocessing  or re-using byproducts and managing  waste.
Our team members implement  LEAN manufacturing/Six Sigma  principles and we provide green   team training.
Zimmer Biomet’s Environmental  Management System (EMS) is  consistent with international  standards.
Third-party audits are  conducted periodically to validate the  effectiveness of our EMS.
In addition  to third-party audits, our EHS staff  conducts internal EHS audits.
All audit results are communicated to  executive management and analyzed  for improvement opportunities.
EHS Codes of Practice address   the following series of elements:  • Programs & procedures  • Integrated management  • Continual improvement  • Team member education  • Acquisitions & divestitures  • Products & services  • External customer support  • Business activities & operations  • Research support  • Precautionary approach  • Contractors & suppliers  • Emergency prevention,     preparedness & response  • Transfer of technology &     best practices  • EHS Awareness in the      Community: Good Citizenship  • Communication with     stakeholders  • Measurement & reportingENVIRONMENTAL Environmental,  Health and  Safety Program  Summary2018 Sustainability Report  | 4Goals and accomplishments Zimmer Biomet is measuring its effect on the environment by harmonizing an environmental sustainability strategy across its  global manufacturing network.
Through the prevention and reduction of negative environmental factors in four areas,   the Company’s goal is to reduce its negative effects on the environment by 20 percent by 2020, compared to its 2015 data.
The key metrics are:  • Greenhouse gas emissions calculated equivalent to carbon dioxide (CO2-e)   • Water consumption  • Hazardous waste generation  • Wastes that become landfilled  Energy audits have been conducted throughout the  global manufacturing network to identify sites with high  energy consumption and focus efforts on managing  those sources with greater efficiency.
Several sites are  focusing on and achieving energy reductions with the  installation of higher efficiency compressed air systems,  improved control of heating and air conditioning  systems and the installation of LED lighting.
Zimmer Biomet’s corporate Energy and Water  Management Requirements contain policies and  provisions that drive resource management leadership,  measurement, analysis and continuous improvement.
The collection of key metrics provides informed and on- track information to address negative trends through a  plan/do/check/act philosophy.
Zimmer Biomet voluntarily participates in the Carbon  Disclosure Project and Water Disclosure Project so data is transparent and public.
In this way, stakeholders can review  information on these two key metrics and compare Zimmer Biomet to other companies in the medical device industry.
One of Zimmer Biomet’s long-term commitments is to become a zero-to-landfill company.
We have made good strides in  reducing landfill waste.
Locating partners in the byproduct management arena, the Company is researching avenues to recycle  byproducts that cannot be completely eliminated.
Since 201 1, Zimmer Biomet has been a corporate sponsor of ACRES Land Trust,  Indiana’s oldest and largest membership-based nonprofit land conservation  organization.
ACRES protects more than 6,700 acres of forests, wetlands,  grasslands and unique geological features in more than 100 nature preserves,  many of which are open to the public.37% 60% 3%Non-Hazardous/ Landfill WasteRecycled Waste Hazardous Waste2018  Waste and Recycling Waste and Recycling Total Waste Lbs.
Recycled Waste 6,250,Non-Hazardous/Landfill Waste 3,850,Hazardous Waste 333,630External reporting standards We recognize the importance of disclosing our sustainability performance.
We reference the following independent organizations to help us understand  and communicate the potential impact of our business on critical   sustainability issues: Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): cdp.net Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): globalreporting.org TruCost: trucost.com Health and safety performance We are committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment for our  team members.
Workplace and job analyses are conducted according to our EHS  Management System to ensure and improve health and safety on the job.
Our  2018 total recordable incident rate was 0.69.
Teams across Zimmer Biomet are  working toward a Zero Recordable Incident target.
Environmental performance After Zimmer and Biomet merged in 2015, operating results were collected from  22 Zimmer Biomet manufacturing sites with a potential environmental impact.
These results are being used as a baseline to track key contributors to our overall  environmental footprint over five years, to help identify best practices and  opportunities for improvement.
ENVIRONMENTAL By 2020, our goal   is to achieve at least a  20 percent  aggregate reduction   in the following:  • CO2-e generation  • Water consumption  • Waste landfilled   • Hazardous waste     generated Key metrics selected for   measurement were:  • Square footage  • Electricity  • Natural gas  • Diesel fuel  • Propane  • Water  • Recycling  • Landfill waste  • Hazardous waste 20% 2018 Sustainability Report | 2018 Sustainability Report  | Supplier management Zimmer Biomet is committed to supply chain initiatives, overall corporate social responsibility and sustainability efforts that  work toward a conflict-free supply chain.
We encourage our suppliers to also support these efforts that are outlined in our Code  of Supplier Conduct.
The Company supports actions to increase supply chain transparency.
We annually file a Conflict Minerals Disclosure Report  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform  and Consumer Protection Act.
Our policy on conflict minerals can be found at: investor.zimmerbiomet.com/corporate-governance .
Manufacturing We regularly invest in operational improvements to address resource consumption and conscientiously source the materials  and components we use to manufacture our products.
We embrace our social responsibilities, while also delivering value to our  customers, their patients and our stockholders.
Our sustainability objectives focus on six key areas:  • Governance: Maintain oversight, systems and accountability necessary to ensure performance  • Team member engagement: Provide encouragement and resources focused on performance improvement  • Energy and climate change: Optimize energy performance and realize cost savings by implementing best practice     energy programs  • Resource conservation: Optimize efficient use of natural resources in a manner that addresses stakeholder interests  • Product life cycle: Minimize environmental impacts along the product life cycle  • External engagement: Improve transparency and engagement strategies around environmental excellence that     strengthen brand equity Quality and product safety Patients and healthcare professionals alike rely on the quality of our products.
We take that trust seriously and have adopted  and implemented regulatory compliant systems and processes to ensure the highest standards of quality and safety.
Zimmer Biomet’s Quality Management System (QMS) is ISO 13485-certified.
This internationally-recognized standard  for regulatory compliance requires that we establish and maintain effective processes and ensures the consistent design,  development, production, installation and delivery of our products.
Team members play a key role in improving Zimmer Biomet’s quality assurance systems and processes.
We must adhere to  applicable laws, regulations, policies and procedures, and we are expected to raise questions and voice concerns about issues  that may affect the quality or safety of our products.2018 Sustainability Report  | 7SOCIAL Social  SummaryTalent management Zimmer Biomet supports a fair and  competitive work environment and is  dedicated to attracting and retaining  the best talent.
We hire, compensate  and promote based on qualifications,  experience and skills.
We offer all team  members globally a performance-  based annual bonus opportunity that  reflects relevant financial metrics.
We respect the human rights, dignity,  and privacy of the individual.
We follow  applicable labor laws and do not allow  child labor, forced labor or trafficking  by Zimmer Biomet or its business  partners.
We welcome diversity among our  team members.
We are committed  to providing equal employment  opportunities for all of our team  members without regard to race,  color, creed, religion, national origin,  citizenship, gender, gender identity,  sexual orientation, marital status,  pregnancy, age, medical condition,  disability or military or veteran status.
We are committed to helping our team  members achieve their full potential.
Our leadership team performs formal  talent succession reviews annually,  following the performance   review process.
Importantly, we offer multiple  leadership training and skills  development programs.
Several  targeted leadership programs have  been developed, including the  Accelerating Leadership Program,  as well as a broader set of skills  development courses, including   on-demand e-learning courses  and open enrollment instructor-led  courses.
In addition, we offer financial  assistance for continuing education.
We use surveys to monitor team member engagement.
In 2018, we conducted numerous team member surveys to provide  guidance for improvement on various key topics.
To help identify and develop talent, we partner with a host of organizations and local non-profit entities, as well as universities,  colleges and high schools.
We provide representation on local councils to identify current and future talent gaps and work  with educational institutions to ensure that curricula are designed to train and develop skills that are needed to support the  orthopedic industry.
Examples include collegiate and high school co-op and intern programs, as well as machinist training.
We also offer a Finance Development Program and a Quality Development Program for new college graduates.
Recent awards and recognition Zimmer Biomet was named “2018 Top Employer” in China for the seventh consecutive year by the Top Employers Institute   (top-employers.com ).
The Top Employers Institute is an independent organization headquartered in Holland.
The Institute  has been studying the human resources programs of major employers around the world since 1991.
The Institute recognizes  “Top Employers” through a comprehensive audit of a company’s human resources environment, including strategy, policy  implementation, monitoring and team member development.
Zimmer Biomet’s Warsaw, Indiana headquarters is wholly powered by renewable,   green energy in compliance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA)   Green Power Partnership program.
Volunteer activities Zimmer Biomet is dedicated to its team members and to the communities in which we live and work.
We encourage our team  members to actively participate in volunteer organizations and projects.
In 2018, team members volunteered in many activities,  including Big Brothers Big Sisters, STEM Education and Robotics and United Way’s Day of Action.
Work/life balance and wellness Zimmer Biomet recognizes that a balance in work and life is vital.
Our full-time team members receive paid holidays and paid  time off that is based on length of service.
When life events occur, such as the birth or adoption of a child or the loss of a loved  one, team members receive paid time off to focus on their families.
We also realize the importance of a healthy lifestyle,   so we offer Wellness programs to provide team members with professional help for guidance and support.
2018 Sustainability Report  | 8Diversity and inclusion At Zimmer Biomet, we believe that in order to succeed, everyone must feel valued and respected.
Innovation is in our roots.
By recognizing, supporting and drawing from a rich variety of perspectives, experiences, backgrounds, capabilities and  lifestyles, we will continue to lead in innovation.
That’s why we embrace diversity and encourage inclusion every single day.
This allows us to develop products of the highest quality, transform patient care and stay at the forefront of our industry.
Supplier diversity A diverse supply chain strengthens our ability to carry out our mission and improve the communities where we live and work.
Annually, we report spending with certain diverse suppliers, such as the following:  • Historically Underutilized Business Zone Small Business (HUBZone)  • Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB)  • Small Business (SB) • Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB)  • Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB)  • Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) 2018 Sustainability Report  | 2018 Sustainability Report  | 10Grants, donations and funding In 2018, Zimmer Biomet provided grants, donations and funding for numerous projects.
These included various grants to  support orthopedic post-graduate medical education, including OMeGA grants.
OMeGA is an independent legal entity with  a singular mission: To award and administer grants for graduate orthopedic medical education through an open, accessible  process designed to safeguard against potential conflicts of interest and to ensure transparency in the allocation of resources.
Zimmer Biomet provided educational grants support independent medical educational conferences that promote scientific  knowledge, medical advancement and the delivery of effective healthcare.
Zimmer Biomet provided grants to third party  organizations for independent research to advance patient treatment designed for improved outcomes.
Funding was also  provided to support programs that promote diversity and multiculturalism in medical schools and in surgeon professional  development, as well as industry minority initiatives to raise orthopedic treatment awareness and support higher education.
One example of diversity-related funding is the support we provide to The Perry Initiative, which is committed to inspiring  young women to be leaders in the fields of orthopedic surgery and engineering.
Zimmer Biomet is a Founding Sponsor of Nth Dimensions, an educational non-profit  organization created to help increase diversity of women and underrepresented  minorities in the field of orthopedics, including pre-medical, medical and resident  medical students.
We are a corporate partner of the J.
Robert Gladden Orthopaedic  Society, a multi-cultural organization with a mission to increase diversity within the orthopedic profession.
We also provide  support to the Ruth Jackson Orthopedic Society, which is dedicated to advancing the science and practice of orthopedic  surgery among women.
Since 2004, Zimmer Biomet has continued to fund initiatives that focus on defining and  reducing musculoskeletal disparities.
For example, we have supported Movement is Life,   a multi-disciplinary coalition that includes partnerships with thought leaders.
The Movement is  Life project is dedicated to the elimination of racial, ethnic and gender disparities in muscle and  joint health by promoting physical mobility to improve quality of life among women, as well as  African American and Hispanic patients.
Movement is Life has also supported Operation Change, a community-based public health intervention focused on positive  behavior modification in individuals who suffer from joint pain and chronic comorbid conditions such as diabetes and obesity.
Movement is Life developed a website “Start Moving Start Living” which includes a set of related culturally competent patient  communication tools to raise awareness about the health risks associated with immobility in the United States.
Zimmer Biomet  is dedicated to improving access to musculoskeletal care for all by working through the parallel channels of patient education,  policy development, community programs and provider training.
Zimmer Biomet collaborated with the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine on a landmark research paper titled,  “Musculoskeletal Healthcare Disparities: Influence of Patient Sex, Race, and Ethnicity on Utilization of Total Joint Arthroplasty,”  published in the Journal of Long-Term Effects of Medical Implants.
The team further developed an economic cost model  to illustrate the significant cost of disparities.
This model, which was recently published in Medical Care, is titled “A Fresh  Perspective on a Familiar Problem: Examining Disparities in Knee Osteoarthritis Using a Markov Model.” Just as patients  are often treated for one medical condition by one specialist instead of holistically for their mosaic of health problems, the  healthcare system may consider only the cost of direct medical treatment without thought to lost productivity experienced  by the employer and patient.
To quote the conclusions, “Our results show that disparities in treatment of knee OA are costly.
All stakeholders involved in treatment decisions for knee OA patients should consider costs associated with delaying and  foregoing treatment, especially for disadvantaged populations.
Such decisions may lead to higher costs and worse health  outcomes.” In all cases, as would be expected and supported in the greater body of literature, early, preventative treatment   is best.SOCIAL 2018 Sustainability Report  | 11americares Saves lives and improves health for  people affected by poverty or disaster   so they can reach their full potential.
americares.orgZimmer Biomet provided donations and funding to numerous organizations to support community and global projects in 2018, including: Zimmer Biomet donated orthopedic products to support more than 40 philanthropic medical mission trips in 2018 to help  patients in need around the globe.
Zimmer Biomet partnered with Faith in Practice by donating a full inventory of knee implants  along with instrumentation necessary to continually perform charitable surgeries in Guatemala.
Additionally, we donated  orthopedic implants for U.S. charitable surgeries through Americares and Operation Walk USA.
STEM  stemedcoalition.orgAmerican Red Cross  redcross.org Combined Community Services combinedcommunityservices.org Lilly Center for Lakes & Streams lakes.grace.edu Big Brothers Big Sisters bbbs.org Cardinal Services cardinalservices.org Arthritis Foundation arthritis.org Warsaw Community Schools warsaw.k12.in.us Beaman Home thebeamanhome.com Operation Walk USA Helps patients to become mobile.
opwalkusa.comKosciusko Community YMCA  kcymca.org The Watershed Foundation watershedfoundation.orgUnited Way unitedway.org Faith in Practice Committed to serving the poor of  Guatemala through short-term medical  mission trips that take an integrated  approach to care that strives to reach  those in the greatest need.
faithinpractice.org2018 Sustainability Report  | 12GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Zimmer Biomet is committed to good  corporate governance and believes  that an attentive, performing Board  of Directors is a tangible competitive  advantage.
Our Corporate Governance  Guidelines ( investor.zimmerbiomet.
com/corporate-governance )  assist the Board in monitoring the  effectiveness of policy and decision- making both at the Board and  management level, with a view to  enhancing stockholder value over the  long term.
In the United States, we advocate for  tax, financial, regulatory and other  key policies on the state and federal  levels.
As required by U.S. law, we file  mid-year contribution reports and  quarterly lobbying activity reports with  the United States federal government  regarding these activities.
These  reports are publicly available and can  be found on the internet.Governance2018 Sustainability Report  | 13Ethics and compliance We are committed to maintaining  the highest ethical standards and  complying with all applicable laws,  regulations, company policies and  industry codes.
We conduct our work  and interact with others according to  our shared values reflected in Zimmer  Biomet’s Code of Business Conduct  and Ethics ( investor.zimmerbiomet.
com/corporate-governance ).
In addition, we endorse and are  committed to complying with  the relevant codes for industry  associations of which Zimmer Biomet is  a member, including: • AdvaMed Code of Ethics    (United States) • EucoMed Code of Business    Practice (EMEA) • MecoMed Code of Business    Practice (Middle East) • SAMed Code of Business Practice    (South Africa) • APACMed Code of Ethical    Conduct (APAC) • MTAA Code of Practice (Australia) • ABIMED Code of Conduct (Brazil) • AMID (Mexico)CEO and senior executive  compensation Our CEO and senior executives   receive fixed compensation as  well as short-term and long-term  performance-based compensation.
Applicable performance metrics and  targets align executives’ interests with  those of Zimmer Biomet stockholders,  are approved by the Compensation  and Management Development  Committee of the Board of Directors  and reported in our filings with the  SEC, which are publicly available.
Affiliations and  memberships Zimmer Biomet is a member of  numerous industry and trade groups.
We work with these groups on a  variety of issues of importance to  Zimmer Biomet and the medical device  industry.
These groups can help the  industry reach consensus on policy  issues and be more effective with issue  advocacy.
With our representatives on  the boards and committees of industry  groups and associations, we can voice  questions or concerns it may have  about policy or related activities.
We  are a member of many global industry  and trade groups, some of which are  listed below:  • Advanced Medical Technology     Association (AdvaMed)  • Medical Device     Competitiveness Coalition     (MDCC)  • U.S. Chamber of Commerce  • Indiana Chamber of Commerce  • MedTech Europe     (European Union)  • APACMed (Asia Pacific Medical     Technology Association)  • American Medical Diagnostic     and Device Manufacturers’     Association (Japan)  • Indiana Manufacturers     Association     • Colorado BioScience     Association  • BioFlorida  • Healthcare Institute     of New Jersey 2018 Sustainability Report | 132018 Sustainability Report  | 142846.1-US-en-REV © 2019 Zimmer Biomet www.zimmerbiomet.com