12020   
SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCECOMPANY PROFILE
Corporate Overview  .................................................................. 1
Mission and Guiding Principles.  ................................................. 1
Our Sustainability Commitment  ................................................ 1
COVID -19  ................................................................................... 3
ENVIRONMENTAL
Environmental Risk Management Policy  .................................... 4
Compliance  ........................................................................... 4
Continuous Improvement  ...................................................... 4 
Business Integration  .............................................................. 4
Environment & Climate Change  ............................................. 4
Health & Safety ...................................................................... 4
Communication & Education  ................................................. 4
Environmental Targets  .............................................................. 5
SOCIAL
Talent Management  ................................................................... 6
Performance Management  ........................................................ 6
Culture Promises and Habits  ...................................................... 6
Performance Coaching  .............................................................. 7
Leadership Development  ........................................................... 7
New Hire Orientation  ................................................................. 7
Global Onboarding Checklist  ..................................................... 7
Bookboon  .................................................................................. 7
Rational Programs  ..................................................................... 7
Learning Management System  .................................................. 7
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion ...................................................... 7
Employee Resource Group ......................................................... 8
Employee Engagement  .............................................................. 8
Health, Safety & Wellness .......................................................... 8
Work/Life Balance  ..................................................................... 9
Pay Equity  .................................................................................. 9
Benefits  ..................................................................................... 9
Collective Bargaining  ................................................................ 9
Discrimination Policy  ................................................................. 9
Product Quality  ....................................................................... 10
Supplier Code of Conduct ........................................................ 10
Supplier Social Responsibility Audits  ........................................ 11Supplier Diligence  .................................................................... 11
Supplier Quality Audits  ............................................................. 11
Supplier Diversity Policy  ........................................................... 11
Management of Risks Associated  
with Use of Critical Materials  .................................................... 12
Animal Testing Policy  ............................................................... 12
Critical Trial Program  ............................................................... 13
Critical Trial Transparency  ....................................................... 13
Grants, Donations and Funding ............................................... 14
Zimmer Biomet Foundation  ................................................. 14
americares  .......................................................................... 14
Faith In Practice  ................................................................... 14
Access to Healthcare ............................................................... 15
Movement is Life  ...................................................................... 15
Patient Privacy and Data Security ............................................ 16
Privacy  ................................................................................ 17
Data Security ....................................................................... 17
Data Usage  .......................................................................... 17
Ownership  ........................................................................... 17
Cybersecurity  .......................................................................... 17
GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance  ............................................................ 18
Audit Committee  ................................................................. 18
Compensation and Management  
Development Committee ..................................................... 18
Corporate Governance Committee  ...................................... 19
Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee  .................. 19
Executive Compensation  ......................................................... 19
Ethical Business Conduct  ......................................................... 19
Counter Corruption  ................................................................. 21
Whistleblower Program ........................................................... 21
Ethical Marketing  .................................................................... 21
Zimmer Biomet’s Statement of Engagement  
on Public Policy Issues ............................................................. 22
How Zimmer Biomet Engages .................................................. 23
Industry Groups and Trade Associations  .................................. 23
Political Contributions  ............................................................. 24
2020 Sustainability Accounting Standards  
Board Index  ............................................................................. 25Table of Contents1Corporate Overview
Zimmer Biomet is a global medical technology leader with 
a comprehensive portfolio designed to maximize mobility 
and improve health. We seamlessly transform the patient 
experience through our innovative products and suite of 
integrated digital and robotic technologies that leverage 
data, analytics and artificial intelligence.  
With more than 90 years of trusted leadership and 
proven expertise, Zimmer Biomet is positioned to deliver 
the highest quality solutions to patients and providers. 
Our legacy continues to come to life today through our 
progressive culture of evolution and innovation. 
  
For more information about our product portfolio, our 
operations in more than 25 countries and sales in more 
than 100 countries, or about joining our team, visit  
www.zimmerbiomet.com  or follow Zimmer Biomet  
on Twitter at www.twitter.com/zimmerbiomet.Our Mission  
Alleviate pain and improve the quality of life for people 
around the world. 
Guiding Principles   
• Respect the contributions and perspectives  
of all Team Members. 
• Commit to the highest standards of patient safety, 
quality and integrity. 
• Focus our resources in areas where we will  
make a difference. 
• Ensure the Company’s return is equivalent  
to the value we provide our customers and patients. 
• Give back to our communities and people in need. 
Our Sustainability Commitment  
Zimmer Biomet is committed to being a good corporate 
citizen. Our global team is dedicated to sustainable 
practices across the entire spectrum of the environmental, 
social and governance platform.  
COMPANY PROFILE2COMPANY AWARDS3
COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected Zimmer Biomet’s 
financial results, but there has been no significant impact 
on our overall operations, manufacturing or strategy. 
Additionally, the pandemic has not impacted the quality, 
safety and efficacy of our products.
Prior to COVID-19, Zimmer Biomet developed 
comprehensive crisis response plans and initiated 
contingency drills – including for pandemic events – across 
our operations. This exercise helped prepare the Company 
and create enhanced disaster recovery plans that have 
been a significant benefit throughout our response to 
COVID-19. Accordingly, we were able to promptly secure 
our global supply chain in early 2020, as COVID-19 reached 
pandemic proportions, and continued operations without 
compromising product quality and safety.
Our China manufacturing facilities quickly recovered 
from the initial outbreak of COVID-19 and resumed full 
operations sooner than initially expected. Zimmer Biomet promptly secured the transportation of raw and finished 
goods materials, as well as personal protective equipment 
inside and outside of the Asia Pacific (APAC) region.
All of our manufacturing sites and distribution centers 
outside of APAC implemented enhanced safety protocols 
and established regional health contacts prior to the 
pandemic spreading across all regions. Our enhanced 
safety protocols were openly shared with our suppliers 
to ensure as secure a supply chain as possible. Zimmer 
Biomet personnel not directly connected to manufacturing 
operations, and the supply chain shifted to work from 
home arrangements as an added safety measure to secure 
the supply chain and reduce risk of infection for all team 
members.
A measured approach to balance manufacturing and cash 
flow proved successful and since that time, our service 
levels have been running at or above industry norms.4Environmental Risk Management Policy
Consistent with Zimmer Biomet’s Mission, Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics and the Environmental, Health, Safety, 
and Sustainability (EHSS) Vision, we are committed to our 
policy of conducting business in a safe and environmentally 
sustainable manner that promotes the health of our 
employees, customers, community and the environment 
and that meets global EHSS requirements. The purpose of 
our Environmental Risk Management Policy is to implement 
the principles of the EHSS programs. Corporate and 
regional standards exist to support these principles.
This policy applies to all Zimmer Biomet locations 
throughout the world. It provides uniform guidance for the 
Zimmer Biomet EHSS teams to manage and monitor risk 
within the global manufacturing and distribution processes. 
As part of our EHSS Management System, Zimmer Biomet 
commits to:
Compliance
Zimmer Biomet complies with all applicable EHSS 
laws, regulations, Company EHSS Standards and other 
requirements to which the organization subscribes related 
to all EHSS subject matter and risks. Zimmer Biomet 
conducts audits and implements best practices to ensure 
compliance with these requirements.
Continuous Improvement
Zimmer Biomet establishes EHSS goals, objectives and 
targets across our global business and strives to continually 
improve our performance and publicly report on our 
progress. The Zimmer Biomet EHSS Standards establish 
controls and promote a positive EHSS culture.Business Integration  
Zimmer Biomet integrates EHSS principles into business 
decisions to proactively ensure the health and safety of 
our employees and communities while also promoting 
environmentally sustainable practices. Specifically, 
we require that an EHSS evaluation be integrated into 
product design, manufacturing and distribution business 
processes and services that will reduce EHSS risks, improve 
performance throughout our operations, products and 
packaging across their lifecycle, and promote pollution 
prevention.
Environment & Climate Change
Zimmer Biomet minimizes waste and emissions, reuses 
and recycles materials, promotes renewable energy use, 
reduces greenhouse gas emissions, and conserves energy 
and water wherever feasible, to minimize our impact on the 
environment.
Health & Safety
Zimmer Biomet EHSS establishes health and safety 
standards that promote a safe and healthy workplace by 
striving continuously to reduce hazards and risks to prevent 
workplace injuries and illnesses.
Communication & Education
Zimmer Biomet EHSS communicates this policy to 
employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, community 
and other stakeholders. Zimmer Biomet EHSS Standards, 
Procedures and other resources enable employees to 
implement this policy and share best practices throughout 
the Company in order to promote continuous improvement 
and enhance environmental, health and safety performance.
ENVIRONMENTAL5Environmental Targets
We believe the environmental issues facing the world warrant an urgent and immediate response. Since 2015, Zimmer Biomet has 
achieved each of our environmental targets, including reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, landfill waste and water 
usage. Zimmer Biomet has outfitted all major manufacturing and distribution sites globally with LED lighting. In addition, we 
actively participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), with a 2020 ranking of B. In 2020, Zimmer Biomet publicly committed 
to setting a science-based target for GHG emissions. In setting our science-based targets, we are focusing on Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions. Furthermore, in 2020, construction commenced on a large-scale solar farm for which Zimmer Biomet negotiated a 
Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA), which will offset our North American electrical load. We continue to pursue renewable 
energies in other regions throughout the world in order to advance our commitment to becoming a recognized leader within the 
environmental space. Additionally, we are proud that eight of our major manufacturing sites are zero waste to landfill, and we 
continue to increase recycling as we reduce our landfill waste.
Since 201 1, Zimmer Biomet has been a corporate sponsor of 
ACRES Land Trust, Indiana’s oldest and largest membership-
based nonprofit land conservation organization. ACRES 
protects more than 6,700 acres of forests, wetlands, 
grasslands and unique geological features in more than 100 
nature preserves, many of which are open to the public.
 
6One of Zimmer Biomet’s core strategic pillars is our 
dedication to being a ‘Best and Preferred Place to Work’ 
and we advance that priority with an integrated and multi-
faceted approach. Below are just some of the highlights of 
our 2020 achievements in this area.
Talent Management
Zimmer Biomet supports a fair and competitive work 
environment and is dedicated to attracting and retaining 
the best talent. We hire, compensate and promote based 
on qualifications, experience and skills. We offer all team 
members globally a performance-based annual bonus 
opportunity that is tied to defined financial metrics.
Zimmer Biomet is committed to helping our team members 
achieve their full potential. As such, we conduct annual 
talent reviews as part of our talent management processes.
One component of talent management is to identify critical 
roles that are aligned to our strategic pillar priorities. Given 
the high importance of these positions, we incorporate 
a clearly defined process to assess talent and ensure 
meaningful individual development plans are in place and 
activated.  Performance Management
In 2020, we implemented a new approach to continuous 
performance management – Performance Connections 
– which focuses on individual priority setting (>95% 
completion rate), mid-year career development 
conversations and ongoing check-ins that include 
a mechanism to request and receive feedback from 
managers, direct reports and colleagues. Frequent check-
ins are vital to driving a culture of accountability, and to 
fostering a culture of engagement and connectivity, which 
is even more critical now given the rise in remote work 
arrangements.
Culture Promises and Habits
Aligned with our Culture Promises and Habits, we 
developed and deployed the Zimmer Biomet Leadership 
360 Assessment as a tool for sharing insights into critical 
leadership characteristics and attributes, which are 
important to bringing the Zimmer Biomet Culture Promises 
and Habits to life. Leaders complete a self-assessment and 
solicit feedback from multiple stakeholders, including their 
manager, direct reports and peers. The insights from the 
360-degree assessment process help inform development 
planning and reinforce behaviors that align with our Culture 
Promises.
SOCIAL7Performance Coaching
We implemented a train-the-trainer program with 
customized training content for our HR leaders across the 
APAC region to teach them how to be more effective coaches. 
Virtual instructor-led sessions for people managers were 
cascaded in Japan, Australia, India, Singapore and Malaysia.
Leadership Development
We established iGrow, a regional leadership development 
program that takes high potential emerging leaders 
through team projects, learning and development activities, 
networking and team-building. In 2020, the group consisted 
of 21 team members from 15 functions across 12 countries. 
The program offered participants an accelerated learning 
experience to fast-track their journey to future leadership 
positions and saw 43 percent of the cohort promoted 
during or shortly after program completion.
New Hire Orientation
In 2020, we initiated our bi-weekly New Hire Orientation 
(NHO) program, with a focus on grounding new team 
members in the Company’s history, products, and 
medical device/orthopedics industry. NHO helps new 
team members transition efficiently and effectively into 
the organization and prepares them to make meaningful 
contributions to the Company’s success.  
Global Onboarding Checklist
We developed and implemented a global, standard 
onboarding checklist intended to help guide new team 
members through more tactical and role-based steps that will 
help them quickly become oriented to the organization, as well 
as their team and position. Broken down into 30-60-90 day 
sections, the checklist is designed to provide the new team 
member with relevant information that will help them navigate 
the organization and get off to the best start possible.  
Bookboon
Zimmer Biomet continued to offer our team members 
access to a free eLibrary, consisting of more than 650 
business eBooks and audio books available in a number 
of different languages and with topics ranging from sales 
and leadership skills to technical skills like PowerPoint and 
Excel. These resources are intended to meet team members 
“where they are” by developing skills quickly through 
varied, curated micro-learning content.Rotational Programs
In 2020, we continued our focus on early career development 
through two rotational programs. Both the Finance and 
Quality corporate functions hire new college graduates, 
typically from our co-op and intern population, into their 
two-year programs, designed to accelerate individuals’ 
careers through rotational assignments.  
Learning Management System
In 2020, Zimmer Biomet completed a significant update 
to our global Learning Management System (LMS), which 
improved the learner interface and team members’ 
ability to locate and access on-demand courses, as well 
as streamlined administrator processes for assigning 
and maintaining training assignments. The Company 
also reviewed training plans and implemented processes 
that help ensure the right training is assigned to the right 
people, eliminating the assignment of unnecessary courses 
for many team members across the organization.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Zimmer Biomet remains committed to creating, supporting 
and celebrating diverse and equal workplaces and 
communities. We continue to foster and embrace diversity 
and inclusion within our team and our communities, and 
commit our voices and our resources to community groups, 
business platforms and other organizations united to 
driving meaningful change and sustained improvement. 
8Zimmer Biomet believes that representation matters. As of 
December 31, 2020, women made up 36.1 percent of our 
total employee population, and 23.2 percent of positions 
at Director level and above. People of Color (POC) made 
up 24.5 percent of our total employee population in the 
U.S., and comprised 13.9 percent of positions at Director 
level and above. We are currently working to establish 
2026 representation goals for women and POC at all levels 
of the organization, guided by internal data and external 
benchmarking. 
Core to Zimmer Biomet’s values is our commitment to 
stand together against hatred, discrimination and injustice, 
and we advance these values through our actions and 
investments. With this in mind, we have committed to the 
following initiatives to drive and accelerate change both 
within our own organization and around the globe. We have 
shared these commitments publicly and are tracking our 
progress against them:   
• Engage our more than 20,000 global team members in 
cultural awareness and inclusion programming.
• Invest $1 million and provide executive sponsorship to 
support ongoing programs and elevate the impact of 
our employee resource groups (ERGs).
• Commit at least $5 million over five years through the 
Zimmer Biomet Foundation to nonprofit organizations 
dedicated to combating racism and supporting 
diversity, equality and justice. The Zimmer Biomet 
Foundation is an independent, nonprofit organization 
established in 2018 to address the needs of our global 
community.
• Match, through the Zimmer Biomet Foundation, 
employee financial contributions to non-profit 
organizations, including those dedicated to combating 
racism and supporting diversity, equality and justice.
• Expand our student and early career internship 
programs to attract and develop more Black leaders.
• Continue our financial support of Movement is Life, a 
multidisciplinary coalition seeking to eliminate racial, 
ethnic and gender disparities in muscle and joint 
health.
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)
Zimmer Biomet’s team members reflect the global 
communities in which we live and work. ERGs are trusted 
groups of team members who create a space of belonging for 
all team members and drive innovative business solutions 
in support of the Zimmer Biomet Mission and diversity, 
equity and inclusion strategy. Zimmer Biomet’s continued 
investment in our ERGs has resulted in the elevation to 
global scale. The global ERG program relaunched in March 
2021 with strong participation from team members across the globe and with keynote speakers including our Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Human 
Resources Officer, as well as our newly confirmed ERG 
leaders. The new ERG strategy, aligned to drive business 
results and team member engagement, was released 
during the relaunch. With a focused strategy and leaders 
who believe deeply in the work, we will move forward in 
the journey together to make Zimmer Biomet a Best and 
Preferred Place to Work.
Employee Engagement
We greatly value our team members’ input and, to that 
end, we conduct comprehensive employee engagement 
surveys that ultimately inform our actions towards 
improving our team member experience and engagement. 
The surveys attempt to assess five drivers of engagement, 
including purpose, culture, leadership, personal growth 
and belonging. The results of surveys and commensurate 
action plans are shared with our Board of Directors and with 
all global team members. 
We believe it is critically important to keep our team 
members engaged through frequent and transparent 
communication. This is accomplished through town 
hall meetings, video and written messages, news and 
recognition on our intranet site, and various other channels. 
To stay connected throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, 
our Chief Executive Officer kept team members informed 
of our priorities, financial results, management response 
and employee health and safety through frequent video 
messages and written communications. 
Health, Safety & Wellness
The physical and mental health, financial well-being 
and work/life balance of our team members is vital to 
accomplishing our Mission and achieving our goals. We 
sponsor wellness programs designed to enhance physical, 
financial and mental well-being, and encourage participation 
in these programs through regular communications, 
educational sessions and other incentives.  
We are also acutely focused on the health and safety of our 
team members in the workplace. Our environmental, health 
and safety team constantly monitors various metrics to 
ensure we are providing the safest environment in which to 
work. In 2020, our Total Recordable Incident Rate was 0.27 
and our Lost Time Incident Rate was 0.1 1.9Work/Life Balance
Zimmer Biomet recognizes that a healthy balance in work 
and life is vital. Our full-time team members receive paid 
holidays and paid time off that is based on length of service. 
When life events occur, such as the birth or adoption of a 
child or the loss of a loved one, team members receive paid 
time off to focus on their families.  
We have also rolled out a Virtual Workplace Program that 
enables designated part-time and full-time team members 
to effectively work remotely. Team members must be 
in a position designated by the Company as eligible for 
virtual work. In making that determination, the Company 
considered the requirements of the role, the cost of 
supporting the virtual work arrangement, nature of the 
work, required technology support and other relevant 
factors. Team members must be in good standing, meaning 
they have demonstrated satisfactory performance, in order 
to be eligible for a virtual work arrangement.     
Pay Equity
We are committed to our pay equity process, with annual 
pay equity reviews conducted since 2016, following 
the merger of Zimmer and Biomet. Our comprehensive 
pay equity review covers pay, promotions and new hire 
practices. This includes various types of pay, such as base 
salary, bonus, long-term incentives and new hire sign-on 
awards (cash or equity).  
Prior to 2019, the pay equity review was focused on gender 
differences, with any identified pay issue also being 
reviewed for ethnicity against similarly situated positions. 
Starting in 2019, we further enhanced our analysis to review 
pay differences by gender, age, ethnicity and location. Each 
year we assess our analysis capabilities to identify areas of 
opportunity.  
Human Resources coordinates the Company’s process to 
address any issues identified from the pay equity analysis. 
Individuals identified in the annual pay equity review 
continue to have their annual progress monitored in order 
to ensure that any pay issues are resolved.Benefits
We review our benefits each plan year considering both 
our team member population as well as market benefit 
practices to ensure we are competitive in our offerings.  
Over the last six years, we have focused on key areas for 
women, family and individual health: 
• For women’s health, we continue to offer key 
preventative services and for mothers, we provide 
opportunities to help support and transition back to 
the workforce.  
• Team members and their families are assisted through 
many stages of life for a family. In 2019, we increased 
Infertility benefits and the number of Parental Leave 
days while continuing to provide child care discounts 
at multiple day care facilities.
• We understand our team members have individualized 
needs and we offer programs to support them such as 
employee assistance programs (EAP) counseling, as 
well as benefits such as transgender surgery/medical 
benefits which started in January 2017 . 
• We continue to assess the above key areas annually 
and adjust offerings as needed to support our team 
members.
Collective Bargaining
Zimmer Biomet has more than 20,000 active team members 
globally, approximately 200 of which are affiliated with a 
U.S. collective bargaining agreement.  
Discrimination Policy
Zimmer Biomet is an equal opportunity employer and is fully 
committed to a policy of treating all of our team members 
and job applicants equally. 
We take all reasonable steps to employ, train and promote 
team members on the basis of their experience, abilities and 
qualifications without regard to race, color, ethnic origin, 
nationality, national origin, religion or belief, sex, sexual 
orientation, gender reassignment, age, marital or civil 
partnership status or disability. 
The Company also takes all reasonable steps to provide a 
work environment in which all team members are treated 
with respect and dignity and that is free of harassment 
based upon an employee’s race, color, ethnic origin, 
nationality, national origin, religion or belief, sex, sexual 
orientation, gender reassignment, age, marital or civil 
partnership status or disability. 
Zimmer Biomet does not condone any form of harassment, 
whether engaged in by team members or by outside third 
parties who do business with the Company. 
10Product Quality 
Zimmer Biomet is committed to best-in-class product 
quality and the robustness of our Quality Management 
System. Every site has a stringent internal quality audit 
program. In addition, we have an independent corporate 
quality audit program and are frequently audited by 
external regulatory bodies such as the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) and other competent authorities 
around the world. Corporate audit and external audit results 
are closely monitored and reported at regular management 
review meetings, and the Company maintains a detailed set 
of key performance indicators in the quality area. In addition, 
the Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee of 
the Board of Directors receives a comprehensive quality 
presentation at each quarterly meeting.
We have multiple manufacturing sites proactively 
participating in the Medical Device Innovation Consortium 
and the FDA Case for Quality Voluntary Improvement 
program.  For more information on this program, visit 
https:/ /www.fda.gov/medical-devices/quality-and-
compliance-medical-devices/case-quality
Furthermore, we have a stringent supply chain monitoring 
program inclusive of quality, delivery and cost measures.
In recent years, Zimmer Biomet has made substantial 
progress on quality system enhancements and remediation 
across our network. As of June 2021, the Company has only 
one pending FDA Warning Letter, which pertains to our 
Warsaw, Indiana North Campus facility. The 2012 Ponce, 
Puerto Rico FDA Warning Letter was successfully cleared 
in 2020 after multiple positive follow-up FDA inspections. 
While the Warning Letter at the Warsaw North facility 
remains active, following an FDA re-inspection in 2020, the 
FDA classified the site as Voluntary Action Indicated, or VAI.
We have made significant investments in Quality 
Management System remediation and upgrades over the 
past four years. While these enhancements continue, we are 
very encouraged that these efforts have already resulted in 
a 60 percent reduction in FDA product recalls during that 
time.
YearClass 1 
RecallsClass 2 
RecallsClass 3 
RecallsForms 
483
ReceivedWarning 
Letters 
Received
2016 1 40 1 3 1
2017 1 62 0 7 0
2018 1 48 0 3 1
2019 1 24 0 3 0
2020 0 21 0 1 0We are advancing automation in manufacturing, quality 
systems and inspection and measurement methods such as 
Manufacturing Execution System (MES), Design Controls 
and Risk Management Software (The Vault), and InfinityQS.
We have rolled out the Quality Begins With Me  program 
across the entire Zimmer Biomet network. This is a 
structured culture enhancement program with a mission to 
promote a blame free culture of driving proper behaviors, 
empowering team members to promote operational 
excellence and creating a singular binding focus on quality 
and compliance improvements. The program is intended to 
drive flawless execution to achieve doing things right the 
first time and every time.
We implemented Class A and Operational Excellence 
initiatives across all of our manufacturing sites to drive 
a continuous improvement culture and manufacturing 
and supply chain excellence. As evidence of this effort, 
Oliver Wight has certified Class A in our Ireland sites and 
we have moved to self-implementation and certification 
in the remaining facilities.  For more information, visit 
https:/ /www.oliverwight-americas.com/services/class-a-
standard-for-business-excellence/
We have implemented Green Belt and Black Belt employee 
certification programs aimed at teaching and utilizing 
essential LEAN tools to drive waste reduction through 
continuous improvement, as well as to drive out variation 
by applying Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control 
(DMAIC) problem-solving methodology and to make data-
driven decisions through proven quality tools and statistical 
methods.
We are also working toward compliance and certification 
with the European Union Medical Device Regulation 
standards by 2024.
Supplier Code of Conduct 
Zimmer Biomet strives to achieve and maintain the highest 
possible standards of corporate integrity and ethical 
behavior. We expect that our suppliers will conduct their 
business not only in a lawful manner but also in compliance 
with the same high standards of integrity and ethics. In 
order to establish guidelines for such standards, Zimmer 
Biomet has instituted a Code of Supplier Conduct, available 
at
https:/ /www.zimmerbiomet.com/content/dam/zimmer-
biomet/sourcing/Zimmer-Biomet-Supplier-Code-of-
Conduct.pdf 11At a minimum, suppliers must conduct business in 
accordance with all applicable country, state and local 
laws and regulations covering the jurisdictions in which 
they operate, including, without limitation, laws relating 
to employment, human rights, the environment, health 
and safety and trade. Each supplier is to comply with 
the commercial best practices of the supplier’s industry. 
Zimmer Biomet reserves the right to decline to deal with 
suppliers who do not comply with the law or our standards.
Zimmer Biomet also has taken steps to ensure that slavery 
and human trafficking is not taking place in our supply 
chains or any parts of our business operations through 
the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015 and the California 
Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010.
https:/ /www.zimmerbiomet.com/content/dam/zimmer-
biomet/homepage/CA%20Transparency%20and%20
UK%20MSA%20Statement.pdf
Supplier Social Responsibility Audits
Zimmer Biomet conducts social responsibility audits with all 
new suppliers in high risk regions and on existing suppliers 
every three years. Forty-seven suppliers were audited in 
2019 with no major findings. Social Responsibility audits 
are planned every three years; the next round of audits will 
occur in 2022.
Supplier Diligence
For all new proposed international suppliers, due diligence 
investigations are conducted by the Zimmer Biomet 
Compliance team to make sure the third party is not on any 
watch lists. This global due diligence review starts at the 
front end of the request process. Ongoing due diligence is 
conducted annually for existing suppliers.
Supplier Quality Audits
New and existing supplier audit plans are established based 
on the applicable Quality Management System (QMS) 
requirement for the product/service the supplier provides. 
The applicable QMS requirements are focused on FDA 
and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
standards. These standards include FDA 21 CFR 820 and 
ISO 13485.
Zimmer Biomet has three global procedures detailing the 
process:  (i) the Supplier Questionnaire is used to collect a 
variety of information on the supplier, including an overview 
of the supplier’s quality system; (ii) the Supplier Qualification 
Report determines which audit plan will be followed and the risk classification; and (iii) the Supplier Audit Plan details the 
information found during the audit and the attendees. All 
information gathered from the auditing process is stored 
in a global system and accessible to all Zimmer Biomet 
businesses.
 
Supplier Diversity Policy
We believe that a diverse supply chain strengthens our 
ability to carry out our Mission and improve the communities 
in which we live and work. Zimmer Biomet’s Supplier 
Diversity Policy in the United States and Puerto Rico assists 
in establishing and maintaining business relationships with 
suppliers that are either certified in diverse categories by 
the Small Business Administration or self-certified where 
applicable.  
We assign a Small Business Liaison Officer (SBLO) as an 
administrator for the Supplier Diversity Program. The SBLO 
assures that reports documenting procurement levels, 
broken down by supplier classification, are prepared as 
requested by government agencies and contract groups. 
Annual Summary Subcontract Reports and Year End 
Supplementary Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) 
Reports are submitted according to existing Small Business 
Administration and U.S. Government mandates. 
Zimmer Biomet’s diversity reporting obligations to the 
U.S. Federal Government include spending in the United 
States and Puerto Rico in the following six diverse supplier 
categories annually:
1. Historically Underutilized Business Zone Small 
Business (HUBZone) 
2. Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business 
(SDVOSB) 
3. Small Business (SB) 
4. Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) 
5. Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB) 
6. Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) 12
Management of Risks Associated  
with Use of Critical Materials  
Zimmer Biomet has a Global Supply Risk Management 
process. We have established a systematic approach to:
• Ensure continuity of supply for goods and services
• Proactively manage (identify, assess, mitigate and 
monitor) potential supply risks which may result in 
product delays and/or revenue impact to the business
• Ensure that a global process is being utilized across the 
Zimmer Biomet Global Sourcing Organization
A key component in risk monitoring is the financial 
impacts that might occur in raw material scarcity and/or 
physical disruptions of Zimmer Biomet’s own operations 
or in the operations of our supply chain. To mitigate these 
risks, Zimmer Biomet utilizes a third party to rank our top 
suppliers against 73 financial ratios on a scale of 1-100 to 
understand the overall financial health of these suppliers. 
It is considered to have substantive strategic impact on 
Zimmer Biomet’s business if suppliers score below a 20 
in this rating. Through a third-party vendor, the Company 
obtains international private company financial statements 
and has a greater than 85 percent success rate (and above 
90 percent in certain markets) to measure the core health 
of a supplier out to 36 months, and predicating probability 
of default over 12 to 18 months via a quantitative model to 
generate a rating.Animal Testing Policy
Zimmer Biomet’s utilization of animal testing is consistent 
with animal welfare acts around the world. We utilize 
animal testing when required to demonstrate biological 
safety for our products that cannot be demonstrated by 
laboratory benchtop tests or when required to demonstrate 
compliance with medical device regulations. The 
laboratories that Zimmer Biomet engages for animal testing 
typically have American Association for Accreditation of 
Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC) certification or have 
their own animal research committee (i.e., an independent 
review committee) to ensure compliance with national 
animal welfare acts. Zimmer Biomet does not perform 
animal testing directly; the work is contracted to labs.
Clinical Trial Program
Zimmer Biomet operates a robust global clinical research 
program that strives to collect meaningful clinical evidence 
to support our vast portfolio of products that ultimately 
help alleviate pain and improve the quality of life for people 
around the world. Our clinical research programs support 
the safety and effectiveness of our products, services 
and technologies in a compliant and transparent manner. 
Zimmer Biomet supported clinical trials are conducted 13
across many different programs, including sponsored multi-
center global clinical trials, as well as Company supported 
smaller investigator initiated clinical trials.  
Zimmer Biomet conducts studies all over the world that are 
managed by our global Clinical Affairs teams. These teams 
manage our regulated and post-market studies and are 
located in key locations across the globe. In all instances, 
these programs and teams adhere to Zimmer Biomet 
policies and procedures that incorporate the standards set 
forth in the International Conference on Harmonization, the 
Declaration of Helsinki, Good Clinical Practice guidelines 
and the AdvaMed Code of Ethics. 
To protect the rights, safety and well-being of clinical trial 
participants, Zimmer Biomet has an overarching global 
procedure for Conducting Clinical Research Involving 
Human Subjects, GBL12000. This procedure also ensures 
that the clinical research from our clinical trials is qualified 
and reliable and can be used by worldwide regulatory 
authorities. As part of our procedures, clinical trials are 
reviewed and approved by several cross-functional internal 
committees, including a Clinical Investigation Review 
Committee and a Clinical Research Review Committee. 
Clinical trials are only approved if they are scientifically 
sound, meet a well-defined business need and are within fair market value calculations. Clinical trial support can range 
from monetary funding, providing in-kind product, or even 
the loaning of specialized instrumentation and equipment. 
In addition to the internal Zimmer Biomet review and 
approval processes, all clinical studies are required to be 
reviewed and approved by an Institutional Review Board 
or Ethics Committee that is independent of both Zimmer 
Biomet and the participating investigational centers. 
 
Clinical Trial Transparency
Zimmer Biomet supports clinical research to foster 
advances in clinical knowledge and furthering medical 
device development related to our products and 
programs. As such, clinical trial transparency is required 
to appropriately contribute to and comply with the 
International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) 
initiative and Food and Drug Administration Amendments 
Act (FDAAA) requirements by utilizing ClinicalTrials.gov to 
register our active clinical studies and study results once 
they are available. All study results are posted, regardless 
of whether the trial is deemed successful or failed to meet 
the primary end point. A sample listing of Zimmer Biomet 
clinical trials can be found at ClinicalTrials.gov .14Grants, Donations and Funding
Zimmer Biomet Foundation
As an independent, philanthropic and non-profit 
organization, the Zimmer Biomet Foundation (ZBF) 
improves the quality of life for our communities by providing 
resources to help:  build healthy communities; advance 
STEM education; provide disaster relief; and address 
healthcare disparities while advancing diversity, equity and 
inclusion. 
In 2020, the ZBF established the Team Member Relief 
Fund to help support Zimmer Biomet team members 
facing financial hardships due to personal or catastrophic 
tragedies. One example of the ZBF’s contributions to global 
pandemic relief was a $50,000 grant to Direct Relief, a 
humanitarian aid organization active in all 50 states and 
more than 80 countries focused on improving the health 
and lives of people affected by poverty and emergencies. 
As part of its 2020 COVID-19 response efforts, Direct Relief 
provided much needed support to numerous countries 
in the APAC, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and 
Americas regions, including delivering personal protective 
equipment, surgical masks and intensive care unit 
medication kits.
The ZBF also launched a program to match team member 
donations to approved non-profit organizations with a 
dollar-for-dollar match.  
Zimmer Biomet proudly supports team members 
volunteering in their communities and abroad by offering 
resources to match team members with volunteer 
opportunities and work policies that allow them to take the 
time to support their community.
In 2020, the ZBF announced a $2 million partnership with 
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored 
People (NAACP) to focus on expanding medical access 
for people of color by establishing a health-related Black 
Opportunity Index.
Numerous organizations received support from the ZBF 
throughout 2020. Zimmer Biomet continued to fund the 
ZBF with a large contribution in 2020, allowing ZBF to 
continue charitable work globally.
The ZBF provided donations and funding to various 
organizations to support community and global projects in 
2020, including:American  
Red Crossredcross.org
Americares americares.org
Arthritis 
Foundationarthritis.org
Beaman Home thebeamanhome.com
Big Brothers  
Big Sistersbbbs.org
Cardinal 
Servicescardinalservices.org
Combined 
Community 
Servicescombinedcommunityservices.org
Direct Relief directrelief.org/
Kosciusko 
Community 
YMCAkcymca.org
Lilly Center 
for Lakes & 
Streamslakes.grace.edu
United Way unitedway.org
Warsaw 
Community 
Schoolswarsaw.k12.in.us
In addition, Zimmer Biomet donated orthopedic products 
to support more than 10 philanthropic medical mission 
trips in 2020 to help patients in need around the globe. Due 
to the pandemic, several planned medical mission trips 
were postponed and rescheduled for future dates. Zimmer 
Biomet continued to partner with Faith in Practice by 
donating a replenishment of implant inventory necessary 
to continually perform charitable surgeries in Guatemala. 
Additionally, we continue to support charitable surgeries in 
the U.S. by donating implants through Americares. In 2020, 
Americares was able to support approximately 40 charitable 
surgeries in the U.S. with Zimmer Biomet implants.15americares
Saves lives and improves health for people affected by 
poverty or disaster so they can reach their full potential.
www.americares.org
Faith in Practice
Committed to serving the poor of Guatemala through short-
term medical mission tripsthat take an integrated approach 
to care that strives to reach those in the greatest need.
www.faithinpractice.org
In 2020, Zimmer Biomet provided grants, donations and 
funding for numerous educational and philanthropic 
projects. These included grants to support orthopedic post-
graduate medical education, including funding to OMeGA 
Medical Grants Association. OMeGA is an independent 
legal entity with a singular mission:  to award and administer 
grants for graduate orthopedic medical education through 
an open, accessible process designed to safeguard against 
potential conflicts of interest and to ensure transparency in 
the allocation of resources. Zimmer Biomet also provided 
educational grants to support independent medical 
education conferences that promote scientific knowledge, 
medical advancement and the delivery of effective 
healthcare. In addition, Zimmer Biomet provided grants 
to third-party organizations for independent research 
to advance patient treatment designed for improved 
outcomes.
Funding was also provided to support programs that 
promote diversity and multiculturalism in medical schools 
and in surgeon professional development, as well as 
industry minority initiatives to raise orthopedic treatment 
awareness and support higher education. One example 
of diversity-related funding is the support we provide to 
The Perry Initiative, which is committed to inspiring young 
women to be leaders in the fields of orthopedic surgery and 
engineering. 
Zimmer Biomet is the Founding Sponsor of Nth Dimensions, 
an educational non-profit organization created to help 
increase diversity of women and underrepresented 
minorities in the field of orthopedics, including pre-
medical students, medical students and residents. We are 
a corporate partner of the J. Robert Gladden Orthopaedic 
Society, a multi-cultural organization with a mission to 
increase diversity within the orthopedic profession. We 
also provide support to the Ruth Jackson Orthopedic 
Society, which is dedicated to advancing the science and 
practice of orthopedic surgery among women, as well as the American Association of Latino Orthopaedic Surgeons, 
which represents not only members of Latino descent, 
but all orthopedists who treat members of the Latino and 
Hispanic communities.
Access to Healthcare
Movement is Life
Since 2004, Zimmer Biomet has funded initiatives that 
focus on defining and reducing musculoskeletal disparities. 
Movement is Life , a multi-disciplinary coalition, partners 
with thought leaders and national member organizations 
aligned to create sustainable change in marginalized 
populations. The coalition is dedicated to the elimination of 
racial, ethnic, geographic and gender disparities in muscle 
and joint health by promoting physical mobility to improve 
quality of life among African American, Hispanic and rural 
women. 
Movement is Life programs include:
• Operation Change, a community based public health 
intervention focused on positive behavior modification 
in individuals who suffer from joint pain and chronic 
comorbid conditions such as diabetes and obesity. 
• The “Start Moving Start Living” website that serves 
as a repository for culturally competent patient 
communication tools to raise awareness about the 
health risks associated with immobility in the United 
States. 
• During the 2020 legislative session, Movement is Life 
worked with the late Congressman John Lewis to create 
the Equality in Medicare Medicaid Treatment (EMMT) 
Act. The EMMT bill would require the collection of data 
prior to the distribution of funds. By doing so, it would 
improve the distribution of resources based on need 
to the disparate communities, thus providing more 
equitable healthcare. 16Patient Privacy and Data Security
At Zimmer Biomet, the patient is always the patient, and 
never the product. Patient data is used to improve outcomes 
and create value for patients and their care teams through 
our algorithms, systems and products in order to support 
our commitment to the highest standards of patient safety, 
quality and integrity. 
Our commitment to protecting patient and customer data is 
embodied in our four Privacy and Data Security Pillars:
• Privacy.  Zimmer Biomet maintains robust practices 
to help ensure that that right is protected. Patients and 
customers decide what they share with us.
• Security.  Zimmer Biomet protects the data that 
patients and customers entrust us with through 
strong safeguards. Among other measures, we apply 
encryption in transit and at rest, scheduled security risk 
assessments and penetration testing by third parties.
• Data usage.  Zimmer Biomet will only use customer 
and patient data to provide the services we have 
agreed upon, and for purposes that are compatible 
with providing those services. 
• Ownership.  We put patients and customers in control 
of their data and have established tools and processes 
that give patients easy options to exercise their rights 
with respect to their personal data.Privacy
There have never been more opportunities to use 
information collected in the course of treatment 
to create innovative solutions to improve patient 
outcomes. At the same time, the importance of 
protecting patient privacy has never been higher.
At Zimmer Biomet, privacy is built into our products 
by design and by default, and we work to ensure that 
privacy measures are fully integrated into our products 
and services. By taking this approach, Zimmer Biomet 
products and services accommodate privacy in an 
effective and user-friendly way.
In 2020, Zimmer Biomet engaged with OneTrust, the 
industry-leading privacy management solution, to 
further embed privacy in our products and services. Our 
mymobility platform, for example, is now supported 
with a dedicated portal for individuals to exercise 
their privacy rights, with user-friendly features such 
as explanatory hovertext, local-language accessibility, 
and automated identity verification. We want to make 
it as easy as possible for patients to communicate their 
privacy preferences.
17Data Security
Zimmer Biomet implements and verifies stringent 
security requirements to protect data we hold for 
patients and customers. These include a broad array 
of security controls, including encryption, third-
party penetration testing, malware defenses, access 
limitations and auditing. We also have our compliance 
with security requirements arising under Health 
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California 
Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), LGPD (Brazil) and other 
key data protection regulations reviewed and verified 
by third-party experts. We are transparent regarding 
our security controls so that customers can understand 
and document the ways in which their information is 
protected.
Data Usage
Zimmer Biomet ensures that information is only 
collected, used and disclosed for permissible purposes. 
Through our contracts with customers, notice and 
consent forms, and other means, we are transparent 
about the ways we use information to create value for 
patients and providers. We have implemented robust 
policies, procedures and trainings designed to ensure 
that patients’ and customers’ information is being 
handled consistent with those statements.
Ownership
The patient, provider and Zimmer Biomet each have 
rights and responsibilities regarding data collected in 
the course of treatment.
Zimmer Biomet’s customer engagements, patient 
consents and notices and other privacy and information 
security practices are designed to ensure that these 
rights and responsibilities are respected.Cybersecurity
Zimmer Biomet understands a strong cybersecurity 
program is essential in today’s business landscape and 
has continued to invest in people, processes and next 
generation cybersecurity technology solutions to combat 
this evolving risk. Cyber threats will continue to emerge 
and evolve, so we manage cyber-risks in alignment with 
industry best practices.
Our commitment to cybersecurity includes a programmatic 
approach aiming to protect the confidentiality, integrity 
and availability of our systems, data and products. This 
continuous process ensures that measures are in place to 
improve and update our cybersecurity program using key 
methods such as independent assessments, penetration 
testing, vulnerabilities scanning and obtaining key industry 
certifications.  
Zimmer Biomet has a dedicated global security operations 
team that executes the cybersecurity incident response plan 
and conducts regular exercises to gauge our preparedness 
and effectiveness. Utilizing our cybersecurity awareness 
program, we have increased awareness of cyber threats to 
users globally and continue to share best practices with all 
our team members. 
The cybersecurity program is led by Zimmer Biomet’s Chief 
Information Security Officer and the Chief Information 
Officer, and regular progress updates are presented to the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
18Corporate Governance
At Zimmer Biomet, the way we conduct our business is 
critically important. We are committed to effective corporate 
governance, adhering to the highest ethical standards and 
acting as a responsible member of our communities. 
Our business is managed under the direction of our Board 
of Directors. The Board has responsibility for establishing 
broad corporate policies and for our overall performance.  
As of May 15, 2021, our Board is made up of ten Directors. 
Directors are nominated based on their skills, experiences, 
backgrounds and the needs of the Board and our Company. 
Every Director must stand for election annually. At all times, 
a majority of the Board of Directors must meet the criteria 
for independence established by applicable laws and 
regulations and the New York Stock Exchange. All of our 
Directors, except our Chairman, are independent. 
Directors are recruited to strengthen the Board’s diversity 
and ensure that the Board reflects and understands the 
diverse perspectives of Zimmer Biomet’s stakeholders 
around the globe. Three of our ten Directors (30%) are 
women, three (30%) are ethnically diverse, one (10%) 
identifies as LGBTQ+, and four (40%) were born outside the 
United States. Further, of our four Board committees, one 
(25%) is chaired by a woman.
The Board recognizes the importance of having a 
strong independent Board leadership structure to 
ensure accountability. Accordingly, our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines provide for the appointment of 
a Lead Independent Director when the Chairman is not 
independent. The Board believes that a Lead Independent 
Director is an integral part of our Board structure and 
facilitates the effective performance of the Board in its 
role of providing governance and oversight. Among other 
duties and responsibilities, the Lead Independent Director 
convenes and presides at meetings of the independent 
Directors, including executive sessions of the independent Directors held in conjunction with each regularly scheduled 
Board meeting, reviews and provides input on meeting 
agendas for the Board and its committees, and provides 
feedback on the flow of information from management to 
the Board. The Lead Independent Director is also available, 
as appropriate, for direct communication with shareholders.
Zimmer Biomet has developed risk management processes 
designed to promote long-term shareholder value with 
oversight by the Board of Directors. Sustainability topics are 
incorporated into our risk management processes. Various 
executive leadership team members have responsibility 
for implementing processes designed to identify, evaluate, 
mitigate and monitor risks. Reviews of key risks occur at 
regularly scheduled meetings of the Board of Directors 
and its committees. The Board executes its oversight 
responsibility for risk management directly and through its 
committees:
Audit Committee
Oversight Areas:
• The integrity of our financial statements
• The performance of our Internal Audit function
• Our compliance with legal and regulatory 
requirements
• Our Corporate Compliance Program
• Privacy, data security, business continuity and 
cybersecurity-related risk exposures
Compensation and Management  
Development Committee
Oversight Areas:
• The compensation of our senior executives
• Our incentive and equity-based compensation plans 
and programs
• Senior management talent and development plans (in 
conjunction with the full Board)
• Our policies and strategies relating to human capital 
management (in conjunction with the full Board)
GOVERNANCE19Corporate Governance Committee
Oversight Areas:
• Our public policy, government relations and advocacy 
activities
• Our sustainability activities, including initiatives 
related to the environment
• Our community relations activities and charitable 
contributions
• Our initiatives related to promoting access to 
healthcare and other social responsibility issues
Quality, Regulatory and Technology Committee
Oversight Areas:
• Product quality and safety
• Risks relating to our compliance with laws and 
regulations enforced by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration and comparable foreign government 
regulators
• Research, innovation and technology initiatives
Executive Compensation
Our executives receive fixed compensation (base salary), 
as well as short-term and long-term performance-based 
compensation. Applicable performance metrics and targets 
align executives’ interests with those of Zimmer Biomet 
shareholders and are approved by the Compensation and 
Management Development Committee of our Board of 
Directors.
We are committed to the highest standards of patient safety 
and quality in our products and services and to world-class 
integrity and ethical business practices. In support of this 
commitment, and to drive accountability for compliance 
with, and sustained improvements in, our global quality 
system, the Compensation and Management Development 
Committee included a global quality bonus modifier 
component to executives’ annual cash incentive plan in 
2020. The modifier was designed such that, based on the 
achievement of specified global quality metrics related to our FDA inspection results, it could result in a decrease (but 
not an increase) to executives’ 2020 bonus payouts by up 
to five percent (5%). In 2020, across our global network, 
we resolved one FDA Warning Letter, we received no new 
FDA Warning Letters and our average number of Form 483 
observations per inspection was less than 3.0. As a result, 
the global quality bonus modifier had no impact on our 
executives’ 2020 bonus payouts.
For more information on our executive compensation 
philosophy and programs, please see our 2021 proxy 
statement  
Ethical Business Conduct
 At Zimmer Biomet, we are committed to being a leader in 
the area of ethics and compliance. Every day we strive for 
the highest standards of patient safety, quality and integrity 
in all that we do. 
Whether working with surgeons, regulators, distributors, 
partners or fellow team members, we know that what we do 
to contribute to the company’s Mission is just as important 
as how we do it. 
This was especially true during the last year as Zimmer 
Biomet navigated the challenges associated with the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Leadership and team members 
alike remained focused on doing business the right way to 
uphold our high ethical standards as we transitioned many 
of our in-person healthcare professional interactions and 
training to virtual settings.  
Our commitment to doing business with integrity is guided 
by our comprehensive compliance policies and procedures 
which help team members navigate the applicable laws, 
regulations and industry codes, as well as Zimmer Biomet’s 
own ethical standards. These standards are outlined in 
Zimmer Biomet’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 
20The Code defines ZB’s approach to delivering high 
performance with high integrity and articulates the ethical 
standards by which team members are held accountable. 
It also guides and inspires positive interactions with 
customers and with people in the communities in which we 
live and work.
To ensure that every team member understands and is 
accountable for our Code, Zimmer Biomet:
• Provides the Code in 31 languages so team members 
can read it in their first language
• Requires training on the Code for all new hires within 
60 days of their start date and retrains all existing team 
members on the Code annually
100%
COMPLETED
ETHICS TRAININGIn 2020: 
• 100 percent of team 
members successfully 
completed the Code  
of Business Conduct  
& Ethics training
Since 2016, Zimmer Biomet has conducted an annual 
Compliance Week to further strengthen our compliance 
culture by engaging team members across the globe with 
activities and communications that promote ethics and 
integrity. 
In 2020:
• Team members embraced the virtual format of the 
Compliance Week celebration by:
◊ Tuning in to watch the Integrity in Action 
Compliance Conversations video series between 
our Compliance leadership and some of Zimmer 
Biomet’s most important stakeholders
◊ Participating in local and global activities 
highlighting how to put integrity into action In addition, Zimmer Biomet is committed to compliance 
with a variety of industry codes designed to ensure that 
relationships with healthcare professionals and other 
customers are conducted in accordance with the highest 
ethical standards and transparency. We endorse and 
are committed to complying with the relevant codes for 
industry associations of which Zimmer Biomet is a member, 
including:
• ABHI (UK) 
• ABIMED Code of Conduct (Brazil)
• ABIMO (Brazil)
• ABRAIDI (Brazil)
• AdvaMed China (China)
• AdvaMed Code of Ethics (United States)
• American Medical Devices and Diagnostics 
Manufacturers’ Association (Japan) 
• AMID (Mexico)
• APOMED (Portugal) 
• ARTED (Turkey)
• Austromed: Verhaltenskodex (Austria)
• beMedTech (Belgium)
• BVMed: Kodex Medizinprodukte (Germany)
• CANIFARMA (Mexico)
• Confindustria dispositivi medici (Italy)
• CZECHMED (Czech Republic) 
• Fenin Code of Ethics (Spain)
• IMEDA (CIS) 
• Instituto Ética Saúde (Brazil)
• Korea Medical Devices Industry Association (Korea) 
• Mecomed Code of Ethical Business Practice  
(Middle East)
• Medical Technology Association of India (India) 
• Medical Technology Industry Group (Singapore) 
• Medicoindustrien (Denmark)
• MedTech Europe: Code of Ethical Business Practice
• MedTech Sweden (Sweden)
• MTAA Code of Practice (Australia) 
• MTANZ Code of Practice (New Zealand) 
• Nefemed (Netherlands)
• ORDER (Turkey) 
• Salib-MedTech (Finland) 
• SAMED: Medical Device Code of Ethical Marketing 
and Business Practice (South Africa)
• SNITEM (France)
• Swiss Medtech (Switzerland)
• Taiwan Advanced Medical Technology Association 
(TAMTA) Code (Taiwan)
• Thai Medical Device Technology Industry 
Association (Thailand)21Countering Corruption
The cornerstone of our best-in-class compliance program 
is Zimmer Biomet’s commitment to ensuring that team 
members and business partners conduct themselves 
ethically and in compliance with all applicable laws, 
regulations, industry codes, and company policies, 
including refraining from any bribery, kickback or 
corruption-related activities. 
The Company has established anti-bribery and anti-
corruption policies and procedures that cover, among 
other things, interactions with healthcare providers and 
government officials. These policies and procedures are 
reinforced by a robust training program as well as periodic 
auditing and monitoring. Zimmer Biomet has a zero 
-tolerance policy when it comes to bribery and corruption.
Zimmer Biomet’s Global Third-Party Compliance team 
supports and monitors business partners, such as 
distributors, to help ensure they adhere to the same ethical 
standards as our team members. To ensure compliance, 
Zimmer Biomet performs anti-corruption due diligence 
prior to engaging a third party, and periodically thereafter 
during the course of the Company’s relationship with a 
third-party, in addition to third-party compliance audits.  
Zimmer Biomet also has a dedicated global compliance 
investigations team staffed by experienced anti-corruption 
investigators that manages and conducts all compliance 
investigations.  
Whistleblower Program
Zimmer Biomet’s ability to deliver on our Mission of 
improving lives depends on us being a Trusted Partner . Team 
members and business partners are empowered to speak 
up whenever there’s a concern about a potential or actual 
violation of organizational policies, procedures or internal 
controls, or applicable laws, regulations and industry codes.
Concerns can be raised directly to managers, Compliance, 
HR or through the Company’s Compliance Hotline. The 
Code strictly prohibits retaliation related to Compliance 
reporting. Zimmer Biomet’s Compliance function tracks and oversees 
all reported concerns from investigation to resolution. The 
Company has developed a robust and rigorous remediation 
process to ensure appropriate corrective actions are 
implemented following all substantiated investigations, 
such as team member separations, documented warnings 
and retraining. 
 
 
100%
COMPLETION
REMEDIATION
ACTIVITIES
In 2020:
• We had 100 percent completion of remediation 
activities arising from compliance investigations, 
audits and monitoring.  
Ethical Marketing
Zimmer Biomet engages in marketing to provide valuable 
information regarding our products and services to 
healthcare professionals (HCPs), patients and others. 
 
All marketing activities conducted by Zimmer Biomet must 
have a commercially reasonable and legitimate business 
purpose, and not involve cash, fees or other forms of 
compensation provided directly or indirectly to HCPs or 
public officials. Marketing activities are also expected to 
be separate from any company-sponsored training or 
education program. We do not use marketing to improperly 
influence purchasing, leasing, recommendation, use, 
prescription or coverage decisions associated with our 
products and services.22Zimmer Biomet’s Statement of 
Engagement on Public Policy Issues 
Zimmer Biomet operates in a heavily regulated global 
marketplace and, therefore, believes it is important to 
be able to express its views on a variety of proposals to 
policymakers and other stakeholders in a transparent 
manner. These efforts include monitoring public policy 
proposals, analyzing these proposals and advocating for 
those policies that enhance patient and healthcare provider 
access to innovative technologies to treat debilitating joint 
pain and musculoskeletal conditions.
Zimmer Biomet is committed to participating constructively 
and responsibly in the public policy process. Government 
policy proposals to regulate the healthcare system may 
directly affect the Company’s business and the incentives 
for innovation. There are also important policy proposals 
that can further the Company’s business interests, including 
those of the Company’s shareholders. Zimmer Biomet 
actively seeks to inform the debate on these proposals in 
the United States and in other countries. The Company also 
supports policies that advance the interests of patients, 
improve public health and promote access to healthcare 
and innovation.  
Zimmer Biomet’s engagement in the political process is 
focused on the following areas:
• Access to musculoskeletal care
• Transparent, timely, and scientifically-based regulatory 
decision-making
• Market-based payment or reimbursement
• Strong protection of patents and other intellectual 
property rights
• Open and competitive access to international markets
• Tax policies that support innovation and global 
competitiveness 
• Sensible medical malpractice reformSpecific policies of interest to Zimmer Biomet include the 
following:
• Corporate Tax Policy  – Zimmer Biomet supported 
the changes to the U.S. corporate tax code in 2017 , 
which created a more globally competitive system for 
U.S. businesses by lowering the corporate tax rate and 
shifting to a territorial system.  
• Stability in Payment Policies  – As innovation in 
medical technology changes the way that care is 
delivered, Zimmer Biomet supports payment and 
reimbursement policies that ensure stability and 
access for patients, providers, innovators and the 
entire healthcare ecosystem. 
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – Zimmer Biomet 
supports policies that strengthen a diverse and 
inclusive medical technology workforce and ensure 
equitable patient access to innovative devices and 
therapies. 
• Medical Device User Fee Amendments (MDUFA) 
– Zimmer Biomet supports a well-resourced and well-
functioning U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
The long-standing user fee program has helped FDA 
make significant improvements to the regulatory 
approval process for new medical devices. In 2021, 
Zimmer Biomet and its industry trade group will 
begin negotiations with FDA and Congress regarding 
changes to MDUFA in anticipation of legislation in 
2022.  
• Support for International Trade Agreements  – 
Zimmer Biomet supports trade policy initiatives that 
seek to improve access to medical devices in overseas 
export markets.
23How Zimmer Biomet Engages
The primary means by which Zimmer Biomet engages 
in public policy debate is through communication of  
information to government officials, policy makers and 
their staffs. Zimmer Biomet’s Government Affairs office 
in Washington, D.C. is responsible for advocacy activities 
with the U.S. Congress and the Executive Branch, as well as 
advocacy at the state level. The Government Affairs office, 
which also has staff outside the United States, reports to the 
Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Globally, the 
Company currently has eight full-time employees wholly 
dedicated to Government Affairs matters.    
To assist with its advocacy and policy analysis work, 
Zimmer Biomet occasionally contracts with private firms 
specializing in government affairs advocacy. These firms 
provide the organization with expertise on issues that are 
important to the Company and its shareholders.
In compliance with the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act , 
Zimmer Biomet files quarterly reports with the U.S. 
Congress describing the Company’s advocacy activities 
in Washington, D.C. and the amount of money spent each 
quarter to support these activities. These reports also 
include the cost of maintaining the Government Affairs 
office in Washington, D.C. and the portion of Zimmer 
Biomet’s trade association dues associated with advocacy 
activities. To view Zimmer Biomet’s quarterly lobbying 
expenditures, click on the above link and search for Zimmer 
Biomet under registrant.
All Zimmer Biomet employees and agents must abide by the 
Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This Code 
covers a wide range of business practices and procedures, 
and is designed to deter wrongdoing and promote the highest ethical standards.  Among other things, the Code 
makes clear that no illegal payments of any kind (monetary 
or otherwise) are to be offered or made to an individual or 
entity—including officials or employees of national, state, 
local or foreign governments or national or foreign political 
candidates—at any time or under any circumstances.
Industry Groups and Trade Associations
Zimmer Biomet is a member of several industry and trade 
groups. The Company works with these groups on a variety 
of issues of importance to Zimmer Biomet and the medical 
device industry. These groups can help the industry reach 
consensus on policy issues and be more effective with 
issue advocacy. With Zimmer Biomet representatives 
on the boards and committees of industry groups and 
associations, the Company can voice questions or concerns 
it may have about policy or related activities. At times, 
the Company may not agree fully with the views of these 
associations or their individual member companies; in such 
instances, Zimmer Biomet reserves the right to remove 
itself from related association or industry group activities 
when the Company determines it is appropriate to do so.
Following is a list of U.S. industry and trade groups of which 
Zimmer Biomet is a member and for which the Company 
pays at least $25,000/year in membership fees, with the 
percentage of fees attributable to non-tax deductible, 
federal lobbying expenditures noted in italics: 
• Advanced Medical Technology Association  
(AdvaMed) – 10%
• Medical Device Competitiveness Coalition  
(MDCC) – 100% 
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce – 20-25% 
24Political Contributions
Zimmer Biomet’s policies prohibit contributions of 
corporate funds to candidates, political party committees 
and political action committees. Contributions by Zimmer 
Biomet’s Political Action Committee (Z-PAC) – which is 
supported entirely by voluntary contributions made by 
employees and non-employee directors of the Company 
– support candidates, parties or committees whose views 
on specific issues are consistent with the Company’s 
priorities. The Z-PAC is governed by an Advisory Committee 
consisting of representatives from across the Company’s 
U.S. business units and business functions. The Advisory 
Committee reviews Z-PAC activities and establishes policies 
and priorities.
The Z-PAC contributes to candidates and political 
committees on a bi-partisan basis, and does not make 
contributions in connection with U.S. Presidential elections. 
Contribution decisions are not made to reflect the personal 
political views or interests of senior management. In deciding 
whom to support, consideration is given to candidates who 
represent the communities Zimmer Biomet serves, those 
who serve on relevant committees or in leadership and 
those who have shown support for policies and initiatives of 
importance to the Company. Z-PAC contribution guidelines 
also emphasize the character and integrity of candidates, 
including the candidate’s position on issues that may impair 
Zimmer Biomet’s corporate reputation or are contrary to its 
values, such as the candidate’s positions and record in the 
area of diversity, equity and inclusion. Contributions made 
by the Z-PAC are, as required by law, reported in filings with 
the Federal Election Commission (FEC). The most recent 
FEC report is available here .Following the events of January 6, 2021 at the U.S. Capitol 
in Washington, DC, we halted our Z-PAC contributions, but 
these contributions have since been partially reinstated. 
We continue to review the ongoing pause in contributions 
to those who voted against the Presidential election 
certification in Arizona and/or Pennsylvania.252020 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
We are proud to publish Zimmer Biomet’s first Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index. This reflects our 
continued commitment to our sustainability efforts and increased transparency in our sustainability disclosures.
Topic Code SASB Metric 2020 Reporting
Affordability & Pricing HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each 
product is disclosed to customers or to their 
agentsIn the United States, customers will typically 
engage with a local sales representative 
and local office to  provide pricing for 
products.  Larger healthcare systems will issue 
Requests for Proposals (RFPs).  The pricing is 
communicated through the contract process 
either via hard copy (local, state or federal 
government accounts), email or through 
electronic interchanges. 
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled 21 recalls in 2020.
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products as 
reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User 
Facility Device ExperienceNone
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken 
in response to violations of current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeIn 2020, Zimmer Biomet did not receive any  
warning letters, seizures, or consent decrees.
Ethical Marketing HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result 
of legal proceedings associated with false 
marketing claimsNone
Ethical Marketing HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing 
promotion of off-label use of productsPlease see page 19
Product Design & 
Lifecycle ManagementHC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for takeback 
and reused, recycled, or donated, broken down 
by: 1) devices and equipment and 2) suppliesNone
Supply Chain 
ManagementHC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of 1) entity's facilities and 2) tier I 
suppliers' facilities participating in third-party 
audit programs for manufacturing and product 
quality100% of Zimmer Biomet manufacturing  
sites are audited by a third party and are  
ISO certified.   
 
50% of Tier 1 suppliers are audited by a third 
party.  
 
The highest risk suppliers are audited by a third 
party as part of their ISO certification or are 
audited by a Zimmer Biomet facility.   
 
Those suppliers not participating in third-party 
audit programs have been vetted as the lowest 
risk,  given the minimal likelihood of severity 
to the Zimmer Biomet quality system based 
on a failure of the product or service to meet 
specifications.26Topic Code SASB Metric 2020 Reporting
Supply Chain 
ManagementHC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability 
within the distribution chainZimmer Biomet and all distributors, including all 
sales and office staff, are required to implement  
identification and traceability controls.   
 
Distribution records must include the 
customer's name, address, part number, control 
number, date and quantity shipped.   
 
The distribution record is maintained by 
Zimmer Biomet from the time of receipt 
through storage, handling and distribution 
until the product is implanted into a patient, 
permanently retired from use or permanently 
disposed of.
Supply Chain 
ManagementHC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks 
associated with the use of critical materialsPlease see page 12
Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with bribery or 
corruptionNone
Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing 
interactions with health care professionalsPlease see page 23
For ESG surveys please contact surveys@zimmerbiomet.com
For ESG inquiries please contact Keri Mattox at keri.mattox@zimmerbiomet.com   
or Ezgi Yagci at ezgi.yagci@zimmerbiomet.com  ©2020 Zimmer Biomet  | www.zimmerbiomet.com  | 3427.1-GLBL-en-Issue Date 2021-MM-DD