2018 Health 
for Humanity 
Report
Progress in Citizenship & Sustainability2018 Health for Humanity Report 2
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Contents
Overview  
Johnson & Johnson At-A-Glance                
Our Credo  
Message from Our Leaders  
2018 Year in Brief  
 
Our Approach  
Health for Humanity Strategy & Progress  
Sustainability Governance  
Setting Priorities  
Engaging with Our Stakeholders
Better Health for All  
World Without Disease  
Enhancing Access to Healthcare  
Innovating for Better Health  
Strengthening Health Systems  
Contributing to Community Health3 
3 
5 
6 
10 
 
12 
13 
21 
22 
23 
 
26 
27 
40 
44 
51 
56Environmental Health  
EHS&S Management  
Climate & Energy  
Waste & Water Management  
Product Sustainability
Appendix  
GRI Index  
UNGC Index  
Data Summary  
About This Report  
Independent Assurance Statements 
References116 
118 
119 
126 
129 
 
135 
136 
136 
136 
137 
138 
 
144 
 
 Our People  
Attracting the Most Talented People  
Creating Unique Career Opportunities  
Engaging, Empowering and Inspiring  
Advancing Diversity & Inclusion  
Providing Safe Workplaces  
Championing Health & Wellness  
 
Responsible Business Practices  
Product Quality, Safety & Reliability  
Ethics & Transparency  
Respect for Human Rights  
Information Security & Privacy  
Strong Corporate Governance  
Responsible Supply Base62 
64 
68 
71 
75 
78 
81 
 
83 
84 
94 
101 
103 
105 
1072018 Health for Humanity Report 3
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Overview
Our Purpose
Johnson & Johnson is the largest and most 
diversified healthcare company in the world. We 
have been caring for people since 1886.
Our Values
We are driven by Our Credo, a set of values and 
principles that challenges and inspires us to put the 
needs and wellbeing of the people we serve first.
Our Business
Our global headquarters are in New Brunswick, 
New Jersey, USA. Johnson & Johnson has been 
listed on the New York Stock Exchange since 1944 
under the symbol JNJ. For changes in our business 
during the reporting period, please visit page 71 of 
our 2018 Annual Report.~260
operating companies
140,861
employees
~60
countries of operation
$10,775M
R&D investment
$81,581M 
total sales
$15,297M 
net earnings
$127 .27
market price per share,  
year-end closeThe Johnson & Johnson 
Family of Consumer 
Companies
Offers the world’s largest range of 
consumer health products. From 
baby care and oral care to beauty, 
health and healing, we anticipate 
needs and create solutions and 
experiences to help people live 
healthy, vibrant lives.
2018 Sales: $13,853 millionThe Johnson & Johnson 
Medical Devices 
Companies 
Comprised of surgical, 
orthopaedic, eye health, medical 
specialty businesses as well 
as interventional solutions for 
cardiovascular and neurovascular 
disease. Representing the most 
comprehensive surgical technology 
and specialty solutions business 
in the world, the group offers an 
unparalleled breadth of products, 
services, programs and R&D 
capabilities directed at advancing 
patient care while delivering clinical 
and economic value to healthcare 
systems worldwide.
2018 Sales: $26,994 millionThe Janssen 
Pharmaceutical Companies 
of Johnson & Johnson
Address some of the most 
devastating and complex diseases 
of our time, focusing on six 
therapeutic areas: immunology, 
infectious diseases and vaccines, 
neuroscience, oncology, 
cardiovascular and metabolism, 
and pulmonary hypertension. By 
investing in a transformative future, 
we are changing the way diseases 
are prevented, intercepted, treated 
and cured.
2018 Sales: $40,734 millionJohnson & Johnson 
At-A-Glance
GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-72018 Health for Humanity Report 4
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Brands
Every day, we touch millions of lives with our products. Following are select brands that represent the diversity of the Johnson & Johnson 
product portfolio in our three business segments, spanning the continuum of healthcare.
 
Consumer
 
Pharmaceutical
 
Medical Devices
2018 Health for Humanity Report 5
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
In 2018, Johnson & Johnson marked the 75th anniversary of  
Our Credo, the set of values that ground and guide the decision 
making of our employees around the world. In addition to 
celebrating the enduring power of this document, for the first time 
in more than three decades, we updated Our Credo to ensure it 
remains both timeless and timely.
These enhancements were informed and shaped by the feedback 
of our employees around the world. Employees were challenged 
to expand their understanding of our commitments, reflect and 
have open conversations about opportunities to better live Our 
Credo, and take ownership of each responsibility through daily 
actions. The Executive Committee led in-depth conversations on 
each paragraph, discussing with employees how we are living our 
values, where we can show up stronger for those we serve, and 
how we can continue to improve human health for generations to come. These conversations were then replicated by teams across 
the Enterprise to inspire individual accountability and commitment.
At the core, these changes reflect Johnson & Johnson's 
commitment to all of humanity, and push thinking beyond the 
traditional definition of health to provide people with solutions and 
experiences that improve their whole life. We brought patients 
to the front of the list of stakeholders in the first paragraph of 
Our Credo as we know they are waiting for our life-saving and 
life-enhancing products and solutions. We added inclusion, 
fulfillment and purpose to the second paragraph of Our Credo as 
not only are diversity and inclusion the way we've done business 
for more than 130 years, but we know that it's not enough to have 
a diverse workforce in order to be successful. We need to create 
an environment where people are supported and empowered 
to bring forward their unique backgrounds, driving innovation in 
service of our shared purpose to change the trajectory of health for 
humanity. These and other enhancements reflect the Company's 
responsibility to ensure it remains just as forward-thinking as the 
day it was introduced.
On December 13, 2018, the Company held its first annual Credo 
Day celebration, commemorating 75 years from the date that 
General Johnson first presented Our Credo to the Board of 
Directors in 1943. More than 30,000 employees in locations around 
the world participated in a Global Town Hall, attended unique 
celebrations, and joined outreach efforts to bring the spirit of the 
Credo to their local communities.
Our Credo is more than words—it is a set of promises to 
which every individual, team and company across our business 
are actively dedicated everyday. Most importantly, these 
enhancements ensure Our Credo positions us to continue to place 
the needs of those we serve at the forefront of everything we do.
More  
Resources
133 Years of Innovative Credo-Driven 
Decisions That Have Made  
Johnson & Johnson the Healthcare 
Leader It Is Today 
The Power of Our Credo:  
Johnson & Johnson Chairman and 
CEO Alex Gorsky Reflects on the 
Legacy of the Company's Historic 
Mission StatementOur Credo
GRI 102-16
Johnson & Johnson employees in Asia-Pacific region 
celebrating the global Credo Day.2018 Health for Humanity Report 6
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Statement from Chairman & CEO
Dear Johnson & Johnson Stakeholders,
2018 marked a meaningful anniversary for our Company.
Seventy-five years ago, we enshrined one of our most 
enduring values into Our Credo: to put the needs and 
wellbeing of those we serve first. By always prioritizing those 
we serve—something we’ve done since our founding—we’ve 
grown from a purveyor of surgical dressings to the largest 
broadly based healthcare company in the world.
At Johnson & Johnson, we believe we’re uniquely positioned 
to bring together science, people, technology and the ideas 
needed to profoundly change the trajectory of health for 
humanity. That scale and reach come with a huge sense of 
responsibility—every decision we make can have an enduring 
impact across the globe.
Our 2018 Health for Humanity Report is an invitation for you 
to experience the work we do. You’ll see how our ethos of 
results, transparency and accountability runs through our key 
focus areas: better health for the whole world, investing in 
our people, responsible business practices and safeguarding 
the environmental health of our planet. Living by these 
values is how we’ve helped to address some of the greatest 
healthcare needs in modern history while delivering long-
term value for all the stakeholders we serve.
The stakes continue to get higher. A rising middle class, 
now in the billions around the globe, is demanding quality, 
accessible healthcare in unprecedented ways. Our 
increasingly aging population is redefining standards of care. 
Scientific advances and technological disruption give us 
the opportunity and means to constantly innovate. And the 
health impacts of climate change provide the urgency for 
more action.At Johnson & Johnson, we know that meeting those 
challenges head on means addressing disease along the 
entire continuum of health: from prevention to interception to 
cure. We’re making great progress on our preventive HIV and 
Ebola vaccines. As a committed partner in the global fight 
against tuberculosis (TB), we’re delivering on our Health for 
Humanity 2020 Goal to treat the disease by increasing access 
to our multidrug-resistant TB therapy, bedaquiline.
You can also see our commitment to expanding access in our 
second annual Janssen U.S. Transparency Report. It details all 
the ways we’re working to secure and expand patient access 
while leading in our commitment to visible, accountable 
and responsible drug pricing practices in the United States. 
Globally, we make the same commitment to expand access 
and it helped land us a #3 position on the Access to Medicine 
Index.
We recognize that we cannot solve all the pressing 
healthcare challenges alone and are proud to work in close 
partnership with healthcare organizations around the world. 
In sub-Saharan Africa, for example, we’re piloting a series 
of collaborations to create an affordable, scalable quality 
care model for the treatment of severe mental illness. That 
same collaborative spirit informs much of our philanthropic 
investment. Take our historical support of workers at the front 
lines of healthcare. This year, we expanded that commitment 
by joining the Health for All alliance to ensure that 450,000 
frontline healthcare workers around the world get the training 
they need.
However, none of these achievements would be possible 
without our incredible global workforce. As part of our 75th 
anniversary enhancement of Our Credo, we emphasized our 
commitment to always creating a diverse culture of respect, 
inclusion and belonging. And, as always, we continue our 
push to have one of the healthiest workforces in the world by supporting our employees with everything from best-in-
class health programs to investing in their personal and 
professional growth.
Putting the needs of those we serve first also means 
protecting our shared environment and natural resources. 
Our Consumer business segment joined 240 other 
organizations in the New Plastics Economy Global 
Commitment to tackle the urgent environmental challenge 
of plastic waste. This initiative expands upon our broader 
organizational commitment to advance environmental 
sustainability in our own operations and in our supply base.
To ensure we’re always investing for the future and keeping 
the long-term view, we’re participating in important initiatives 
like the Embankment Project for Inclusive Capitalism, CECP’s 
Strategic Investor Initiative and the U.S. Business Roundtable. 
With these expert partners, we’re helping to shift the 
conversation in the financial markets toward a long-term view 
and measurement of the value to society that a business like 
ours creates.Message from Our Leaders
GRI 102-14
Alex Gorsky meeting with employees on his visit  
to Australia.2018 Health for Humanity Report 7
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Health for Humanity Report demonstrates how we’ve 
used our history of innovation to change the health and 
wellbeing of everyone we serve. Our unique mix of talent, 
know-how and values is how we’ll change the world—not 
just as leaders in healthcare, but also as global citizens and 
champions of transforming lives and communities.
In the meantime, we recognize there is always more to do, 
and we welcome the challenge to make sure we’re even more 
sustainable, innovative and responsible moving forward.
Alex Gorsky
Chairman, Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer
2018 Health for Humanity Report 8
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Q&A with Our CFO
How does the changing healthcare landscape impact 
Johnson & Johnson’s priorities when it comes to 
environmental, social and governance practices?
Through our Priority Topics Assessment process, we 
continuously ensure that we are identifying and prioritizing 
the environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that 
matter most to our stakeholders—and to our Company’s 
purpose to change the trajectory of health for humanity. 
If you look at the ESG priorities outlined in this report, 
they reflect and encompass many of the challenges and 
opportunities we face in today’s dynamic healthcare 
landscape, such as aging populations, the impacts of 
climate change on health, and the increasing importance 
of robotics and AI to medicine. We know that as one of the 
world’s largest healthcare companies, we have a unique 
responsibility in leading the industry forward on these 
matters. As always, Our Credo guides us to ensure that we 
are multi-faceted in determining our ESG priorities.
As the Chief Financial Officer, why do you care about 
sustainability?
We have long believed that continuing to improve  
the sustainability of our business is integral to  
Johnson & Johnson’s ability to achieve financial success 
and create long-term value for our stakeholders. As a leader 
and financial steward of Johnson & Johnson, one of my 
responsibilities is to manage risk. Managing sustainability risk 
is a component of our approach to overall risk management. 
Sustainability provides us with the opportunity to 
contribute to enhancing compliance and reducing operating 
costs, while also improving our business processes and 
efficiencies. Sustainability practices are embedded in our 
operations, resulting in innovative manufacturing processes 
and transformative products, which enable us to deliver 
environmental, societal and economic benefits.What are Johnson & Johnson’s current sustainability 
priorities?
Our current key sustainability priorities are Product 
Quality Safety & Reliability, Ethics & Compliance, Access & 
Affordability, Global Public Health and Innovation, which align 
to the areas of focus for us as a global healthcare company. 
We are also currently working to review and evolve our 
priorities list, as the stakeholder expectations and the business 
environments in which we operate continue to evolve.
From the perspective of Johnson & Johnson’s CFO, there are 
a few sustainability priorities that are of particular importance 
to me: Ethics & Compliance and Innovation. These priorities 
are integral to the Finance organization’s efforts to create 
long-term value that reflect the values of Our Credo. For 
example, inherent in Ethics & Compliance is our commitment 
to pay our fair share of taxes at the local, state, federal and 
international levels. From this vantage point,  
Johnson & Johnson helps the communities in which we 
operate by contributing to their economic strength, stability 
and growth for the long term.
I’m very proud of the fact that our commitment to innovation 
has enabled us to pursue both our purpose and performance 
with equal commitment. It is Johnson & Johnson’s relentless 
focus on transformational innovation, science and technology 
that enables our strong financial performance. As a result, 
this financial performance enables us to sustain and exceed 
our investment in innovation. In fact, in 2018 we invested 
approximately $11 billion in research and development, not 
only a record level for our Company, but this also positioned us 
as one of the top 10 companies investing globally in innovation.
How would you describe the Johnson & Johnson approach 
to long-term value creation?
Managing for the long-term is a central principle for our 
Company and has been a powerful generator of value over 
our history. Our years of robust performance are indicative of the strength of our broad-based business, and reflect 
our relentless drive for innovation, rigorous portfolio 
management, purposeful execution and a disciplined capital 
allocation strategy, all of which are regularly reviewed with 
our Board of Directors.
Whether you call it “corporate social responsibility,” “ESG 
factors” or “long-term value creation,” the concept of creating 
value for our stakeholders and society at large has been a 
vital part of how we have done business since the Company’s 
inception in 1886. Our Credo is Johnson & Johnson’s original 
sustainability framework document, as it recognizes that 
strong returns to our shareholders are achievable in concert 
with meeting the needs of all our stakeholders reflected in 
the four paragraphs of Our Credo—the patients, doctors 
and nurses, mothers and fathers and all others who use our 
products and services; our employees; our communities; and 
our shareholders.
How are you using disclosure at Johnson & Johnson?
We believe that transparency benefits all participants in the 
healthcare system and we take our responsibility seriously. 
We are a leader in providing transparency about our 
commitment to profoundly advance health for humanity, as 
well as how we price our medicines and invest our resources. 
Joseph J. Wolk (left), Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer for Johnson & Johnson.2018 Health for Humanity Report 9
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
We communicate these important disclosures, and many 
other topics, through the Health for Humanity Report you are 
reading now, our annual Janssen U.S. Transparency Report, 
our Proxy Statement, our Annual Report and other Company 
SEC filings. Through these disclosures, we aim to provide a 
holistic view of how we create long-term value for Our Credo 
stakeholders, as well as our Company’s position on important 
topics. We look forward to feedback from our stakeholders 
on these issues and are always open to new ideas and ways 
we can enhance our disclosures or practices.2018 Health for Humanity Report 10
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
2018 Year in Brief
Highlights of the year
Impact made
38,994 16,343 104,479 56
51,503 44.2% 31% $10,775Mpatients provided access to 
MDR-TB treatmentemployees trained in the principles of 
ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCEhealth workers educated in 67 countries consecutive years of dividend increases
patients provided access 
to HIV treatmentof Manager and above talent movement 
that was across function, 
country or sector lines*electricity use from renewable 
energy sourcesinvested in R&DOur Patients & Consumers Our Employees Our Communities & Planet Our Shareholders
Launched new JOHNSON'S BabyCelebrated Our Credo 
75th Anniversary
#3 on Access to Medicines Index Advanced development of a 
revolutionary CAR-T therapy  
for multiple myeloma
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. joined the 
New Plastics Economy Global CommitmentSYMTUZA (darunavir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, and tenofovir 
alafenamide), the first and only complete darunavir-based 
single-tablet regimen to treat HIV-1 approved by the U.S. FDA
Launched a pilot program in Rwanda to 
improve access to mental healthcareExpanded partnership with UNICEF with a 
$10 million pledgeBroader use of bedaquiline to treat  
MDR-TB patients recommended by the  
World Health Organization
* Represents the proportion of employees in Manager and above job categories who in their career progression movement (including upward promotion, downward demotion, or lateral transfer) crossed 
function, country or business segment lines.2018 Health for Humanity Report 11
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Recognitions
Member of
Received CDP Water Security 
A- rating Thai FDA Quality Award 
for the 2nd consecutive year 
FORBES The World's Most 
Reputable Companies For Corporate 
Responsibility 2018#8 on Drucker Institute's  
Management Top 250 ranking  
(the best-run U.S. companies of 2018)Included in CDP Climate 
Change A list 
Recognized as CDP Supplier 
Engagement Leader 2018 
Ranked #3 on the 2018 Access to 
Medicine Index
FTSE4Good Index 
Series constituent 
Top company on 
#LinkedInTopCompanies list 
as one of the world’s most 
sought-after employers 
Member of the Billion 
Dollar Roundtable for 
supplier diversity  
for the 8th consecutive year
Working Mother 100 Best Companies 
(for 33rd consecutive year) – Top 10 and 
Best Companies for Working Dads 
Recognized as a trendsetter by the Center of 
Political Accountability’s 2018 CPA-Zicklin Index of 
Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability
2018 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's 
SmartWay Excellence Award Winner#1 in the pharmaceutical category  of 
FORTUNE Magazine's  "World's Most 
Admired Companies" 
for the 6th consecutive yearThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s National Top 100 List of the 
largest green power users from the Green Power Partnership
2018 Health for Humanity Report 12
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Approach
At Johnson & Johnson, we blend heart, science and ingenuity 
to profoundly change the trajectory of health for humanity. This 
aspiration includes positively impacting patients and all others 
who use our products, as well as the health of our employees, 
our communities and the planet. We seek to provide solutions for 
some of the world’s most pressing global public health challenges 
and work collectively—within our walls and externally with 
partners—to advance better health for all. Our citizenship and 
sustainability approach is inextricably linked to our vision of a 
world where a healthy mind, body and environment are within 
reach for everyone, everywhere. It's based on:
• Continuing to raise the bar for ourselves by setting five-year 
public commitments to both improve our performance and 
demonstrate leadership across environmental, social and 
economic topics relevant to our business;
• Measuring our progress against public commitments and 
reporting it externally; 
• Continuing to strengthen our governance of citizenship and 
sustainability activities across the Enterprise; 
• Conducting periodic Priority Topics Assessments to ensure 
that in the ever-changing business environment we prioritize 
and focus on issues that are relevant to our stakeholders and 
can impact our business; 
• Engaging with our stakeholders to understand and address 
their views and expectations. 
2018 Health for Humanity Report 13
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
We focus our citizenship and sustainability efforts where we 
believe Johnson & Johnson can achieve the greatest impact 
by leveraging the power of our people, expertise, and global 
partnerships.
Our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals are aligned with 
our Company’s purpose and reflect the areas where our 
stakeholders expect us to lead. We believe that achieving 
these Goals is integral to Johnson & Johnson’s long-term 
success, and we consider them to be the Key Performance 
Indicators of our citizenship and sustainability approach. 
Johnson & Johnson is also committed to supporting 
implementation of the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals though both our Health for Humanity 
2020 Goals and our UN SDG commitments, and a separate 
set of commitments across five key issue areas where we 
are uniquely positioned to create sustainable and scalable 
impact.
We report out our progress annually. Progress against 
our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and our UN SDG 
commitments, and all associated data presented in 
the Scorecards, were independently assured by ERM 
Certification & Verification Services (ERM CVS).
More  
Resources
Visit our Sustainable  
Development Goals webpage 
View our Health for Humanity  
2020 GoalsHealth for Humanity Strategy & Progress
J&J-1, J&J-2, J&J-42018 Health for Humanity Report 14
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard
The following Scorecard provides an update on progress we have made against our 2020 Goals.
Goal 2020 Target Progress Made in 2016-2018 Notable Status
1. Develop and 
deliver innovative, 
lifechanging 
solutions to address 
the world’s major 
health challenges.Expand the database documenting the 
effectiveness, efficacy and safety profile of 
bedaquiline (SIRTURO) through collaborative 
efforts to further increase access.Data from the expanded patient database 
allowed for publication on effectiveness, 
efficacy and safety of SIRTURO in two peer-
reviewed journals. Achieved
Collaborate on Phase 3 trials and make 
regulatory submissions for rilpivirine LA, the 
first all-injectable depot regimen for HIV.Positive topline results available for two Phase 
3 clinical trials of the all-injectable regimen 
(cabotegravir LA from ViiV Healthcare and 
EDURANT [rilpivirine] LA from Janssen).  On track
2. Deliver innovative 
healthcare access 
and training 
programs that 
impact a billion 
lives in underserved 
areas.*Produce and donate 1 billion doses of 
VERMOX (mebendazole) to treat >100 million 
children per year at risk for intestinal worms.592 million doses of VERMOX donated in 30 
countries with 304.6 million** children having 
been targeted for treatment.Cumulatively 1.4 billion doses of VERMOX donated since 2006.  On track
Deliver HIV/AIDS therapy access to a 
cumulative 130,000 adults and 5,000 
children.50,980 adult patients and 523 pediatric patients 
received access to HIV/AIDS therapy with the 
branded and generic versions of PREZISTA, 
INTELENCE and EDURANT.***• The estimates of the number of patients receiving access are 
based on the best available therapy access models developed 
by our Global Public Health Access team in collaboration with 
an external partner.
• While we expect our pediatric numbers to increase over 
the next two years based on our access activities and 
the addition of more countries to the New Horizons 
Collaborative, treating HIV in pediatric and adolescents still 
has considerable challenges, including: lack of viral load 
monitoring, limited access to genotypic tests, and limited 
patient identification data. For these reasons, we predict that 
we are at risk of not achieving our pediatric target. In progress
* “Underserved” refers to populations that are disadvantaged because of ability to pay, ability to access care, ability to access comprehensive healthcare, or other disparities for reasons of race, religion, language group or social status.
** Progress on the number of children targeted in 2018 was slightly lower than projected due to a delay in receiving country orders to ship product. We expect our 2019 total to be higher as a result.
*** We revised our calculation methodology to increase accuracy and now report on a 12-month rolling average, which includes a 1.25% wastage and 75% adherence factor.Achieved  
On track: expected to meet the Goal by 2020  
In progress: so far progressing more slowly than expected; plans are in place to meet the Goal by 2020  
Off track: not progressing as expected; currently at risk of not meeting the Goal by 20202018 Health for Humanity Report 15
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
* The updated cure rate is 87.8% for patients treated with bedaquiline containing regimens, based on The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, Volume 392, September 2018, Pages 821-834.
** As communicated through the product label, SIRTURO is taken for six months as part of a combination therapy with multiple other drugs; in total, a patient often requires up to two years of treatment to be cured.Goal 2020 Target Progress Made in 2016-2018 Notable Status
Deliver access to MDR-TB therapy to a 
cumulative 200,000 patients, potentially 
curing* 157,000 people** with MDR-TB of the 
disease.75,869 patients received access to MDR-TB 
therapy with SIRTURO (bedaquiline). 
For 6,959 patients provided access in 2016, an 
estimated 6,110** have been potentially cured, 
based on the 87.8% cure rate.*• We enabled access to SIRTURO in all 30 high-burden MDR-
TB countries.
• Based on our global bedaquiline uptake forecast models, built 
upon publicly available WHO individual treatment numbers, 
we predict a non-linear rate of growth in bedaquiline use in 
the next years.  On track
Together with partners, train 30,000 skilled 
birth attendants to assist 6 million births.Together with partners, trained 58,665 birth 
attendants, who assisted in 3,046,240 births.  On track
Support the delivery of 6 million eye care 
screenings to underserved children and 
corrective treatments (spectacles) as needed 
to 100,000 underserved children.In partnership with Lions Club International, 
supported delivery of 7.9 million eye care 
screenings and 73,018 corrective treatments 
(spectacles) to underserved children.Progress in 2018 is estimated based on delivery of eye screenings 
and corrective treatments (spectacles) in 2017. Actual 2018 data 
becomes available after our report data collection cut-off date.  On track
3. Collaborate with 
government, 
nonprofit and private 
sector to foster new 
models of health that 
improve economic 
wellbeing and 
healthcare in key 
emerging markets.Activate signature partnerships/initiatives 
for five of our largest Consumer brands to 
promote the health and well-being of people 
in need around the world.STAYFREE activated the partnership with 
UNICEF to improve menstrual health and 
hygiene management among adolescent girls in 
three additional states in India. In prior years we 
activated partnerships with JOHNSON'S and 
LISTERINE.  On track
Drive policy thought leadership and strategic 
engagements to expand healthcare access 
and coverage in at least three emerging 
markets (including Brazil, China and India), 
and lead three to five pilots to demonstrate 
the results of these efforts.• More than 700 engagements conducted with 
government officials and other partners in 
Brazil, Mexico, Philippines, Russia and Rwanda.
• Existing pilot projects in Brazil, China, Mexico, 
Philippines and Russia are ongoing. New pilots 
launched in Colombia, Indonesia, Philippines 
and Rwanda.The pilot project on supporting financing models through private 
health insurance in Thailand was completed in 2018.  On track2018 Health for Humanity Report 16
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
* Percentage not inclusive of products newly recognized in 2018.
** In 2018 Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. signed the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment. By joining this global multi-stakeholder initiative, we set a new ambitious 2025 plastics packaging commitment, which supersedes 
our 2020 target. Progress against the new 2025 commitment will be reported in another section of this Report starting in 2020. We will continue reporting our progress on helping advance material recovery and recycling efforts in less 
mature markets in this Scorecard.Goal 2020 Target Progress Made in 2016-2018 Notable Status
4. Fully integrate 
sustainable design 
solutions into our 
product innovation 
processes.New and existing products representing 20% 
of Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved 
EARTHWARDS recognition for sustainable 
innovation improvements.New and existing products representing 19.6% 
of Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved 
EARTHWARDS recognition.* On track
Increase the recyclability of our Consumer 
product packaging to 90+% (on a weight 
basis) via design and partnerships in five 
key markets where mature recycling 
infrastructure exists (Canada, France, 
Germany, UK and U.S.).** In three other 
markets where recycling infrastructure is less 
mature engage in partnerships to advance 
material recovery and recycling efforts.Continued recycling-related partnerships to 
advance development of recycling infrastructure 
in Brazil, India and Vietnam.These include: partnerships with two waste cooperatives in 
Brazil; a partnership with a waste cooperative in India; and a 
partnership with an environmental NGO in Vietnam. On track
5. Reduce our impacts 
on climate and water 
resources.Reduce absolute carbon emissions 20% by 
2020, and 80% by 2050.CO2 emissions decreased by 26% globally since 
2010 (Scope 1 and Scope 2). On track
Produce/procure 35% of electricity from 
renewable sources by 2020; aspire to power 
all facilities with renewable energy by 2050.31% of total electricity consumption generated 
from renewable sources. On track
Conduct a comprehensive water risk 
assessment at 100% of manufacturing/R&D 
locations and implement resource protection 
plans at the high-risk sites.69% of all high-risk sites identified in water 
risk assessment process developed mitigation 
plans and have budget allocated to start 
implementation in 2019.100% of the manufacturing/R&D locations completed the 
comprehensive water risk assessment in 2016. Newly acquired 
sites are assessed within three full calendar years post- 
acquisition. On track2018 Health for Humanity Report 17
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
* Based on spend data from prior calendar year.
** Total spend represents addressable spend, i.e., products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
*** We count our 28,000 active employees who completed ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE training prior to January 1, 2016, towards progress against this target.
**** Defined as 100% implementation of policies, programs and practices for both healthy eating and healthy movement.Goal 2020 Target Progress Made in 2016-2018 Notable Status
6. Collaborate with 
our suppliers 
to accelerate 
environmental and 
social improvements 
across the value 
chain.Enroll suppliers covering 80% of our spend* in 
our Sustainable Procurement Program.Enrolled suppliers covering approximately 
61% of spend in our Sustainable Procurement 
Program. On track
Consistently achieve benchmark spending 
with U.S. diverse suppliers and small 
suppliers, and double the number of 
countries with established supplier diversity 
and inclusion programs.**• Exceeded benchmark diverse supplier 
spending at 9.7% and benchmark small 
supplier spending at 18.9% of total U.S. 
spend.
• Expanded our supplier diversity and inclusion 
programs to one additional country (Japan) 
for a total of 13 countries against the baseline 
of six.The 13 countries outside the U.S. where we have started diverse 
supplier tracking are: Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, 
Colombia, Germany, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, Spain, 
Switzerland and UK. On track
7. Empower and 
engage the  
Johnson & Johnson 
family of employees 
to become the 
healthiest workforce.Empower and engage employees 
toward a “personal best” in health and 
wellbeing via: training of at least 100,000 
employees in the principles of ENERGY 
FOR PERFORMANCE***; connecting at 
least 100,000 employees to their health via 
innovative digital health tools; and providing 
access to at least 100,000 employees to both 
fully implemented**** healthy eating and fully 
implemented healthy movement cultures.• 50,200 employees completed ENERGY FOR 
PERFORMANCE training.
• 96,753 employees engaged in health and 
wellbeing via the use of digital health tools 
since 2016.
• 117,132 and 121,446 employees provided 
access to 70% implemented healthy eating 
and healthy movement cultures, respectively.77,732 employees have completed the principles of ENERGY 
FOR PERFOMANCE training since the start of the program, 
representing 77.7% progress against our 2020 target of training 
100,000 employees. On track2018 Health for Humanity Report 18
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Aspiration 5-Year Target (2016-2020) Progress for 2016-2018 implementation years Notable Status
1. Health Workforce: A 
world where the current 
and future healthcare 
workforce has the 
necessary competencies 
to deliver high quality 
healthcare.650,000 health workers will have 
received training to better deliver quality 
healthcare. 324,900 healthcare providers (50% of overall goal 
achieved).Recipients of leadership training, skills training, and 
education programs focused on health workforce 
development - including China Neonatal Resuscitation 
Program, NurseConnect, mothers2mothers, North Star 
Alliance, Uganda Academy for Health Innovation and 
Impact, and Management Development Institute. 
Learn more In progress
2. Women’s & Children’s 
Health: A world where 
every woman and child 
survives and has the 
opportunity for a healthy 
future.60 million women and children will have 
received support and tools to enable a 
healthy future.33.6 million women and children (56% of overall 
goal achieved).Programs including MomConnect, mMitra, Grameen 
Foundation, War on Worms, Born On Time, DREAMS 
Thina Abantu Abasha, and projects on CARINGCROWD 
provide access to quality care, optimal development, and 
gender equality and empowerment. 
Learn more In progressUN Sustainable Development Goals Progress Scorecard
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a global framework for progress toward a more sustainable future. In trying to determine 
the unique impact Johnson & Johnson would contribute to the global community to create a healthier, more equitable world, we developed 
a clear, pragmatic process to create a commitment to accelerate the SDGs that reflects our unique constellation of strengths. The Company’s 
commitment is focused in five areas in which Johnson & Johnson is positioned to create sustainable and scalable impact: health workforce, 
women’s and children’s health, essential surgery, global disease challenges, and environmental health.
We seek to mobilize and inspire employees, consumers, communities, and our global network to improve health globally. While we aim 
to achieve outcomes in all of the Company’s s work, the identified targets for the SDG commitment are reflective of the Company’s reach 
— individuals whose lives may benefit from our combined efforts with our partners. To that end, we developed a measurement reporting 
framework that involves the annual tracking of progress toward f ocus area targets, ensuring accountability of our work.  
The Company’s SDG commitment focuses 
on SDGs 3, 5 and 17. Learn more here.
Achieved  
On track: expected to meet the Goal by 2020  
In progress: so far progressing more slowly than expected; plans are in place to meet the Goal by 2020  
Off track: not progressing as expected; currently at risk of not meeting the Goal by 20202018 Health for Humanity Report 19
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Aspiration 5-Year Target (2016-2020) Progress for 2016-2018 implementation years Notable Status
3. Essential Surgery: 
A world where safe, 
essential and timely 
surgical care can be 
accessed by all to save 
lives, prevent disability, 
promote economic 
growth, and reduce social 
marginalization.50 million people will have had access to 
safe, essential, and timely surgical care.37.6 million beneficiaries (75% of overall goal 
achieved).Over the past three years, the Medical and Surgical 
Skills Institute trained more than 21,000 healthcare 
professionals from 9 countries in West Africa. It is 
estimated that these trained individuals will serve over 37 
million patients. 
Learn more  On track
4. Global Disease 
Challenges: A world 
where innovations and 
holistic health solutions 
prevent, control 
and eliminate global 
disease challenges and 
epidemics.175 million individuals will have benefited 
from Johnson & Johnson solutions that 
prevent, control and eliminate global 
diseases.306 million beneficiaries (175% of overall goal 
achieved).Johnson & Johnson's VERMOX (mebendazole) Donation 
Program was the primary driver for exceeding this goal early, 
with an estimated 304.6 million school-aged children in 30 
countries having received VERMOX treatments.
An estimated 50,900 adult patients and 520 child patients 
received access to HIV/AIDS therapy.
Since 2016, enabled access to SIRTURO (bedaquiline) in all 
30 high MDR-TB burden countries, and delivered access to 
over 75,800 patients.
Learn more Achieved
5. Environmental Health: 
A world where all people 
have healthy places to 
live, work and play.60 million citizens living across 30 cities 
will have benefited from climate and air 
quality actions that have the potential to 
positively impact public health.13 million citizens impacted through 2018. 
25 cities in program have been trained and have 
committed to implementing at least one climate 
action relating to air pollution improvements and 
health co-benefits.
5 cities have already significantly implemented 
actions: Dar es Salaam, Durban, Medellin, Quezon 
City and Venice.
1 “demonstrator” city (Los Angeles) is  
undertaking multiple climate actions. Expert hired 
with Johnson & Johnson funding to plan/implement 
actions.Cities: Amman, Jordan; Athens, Greece; Auckland, New 
Zealand; Barcelona, Spain; Bogota, Colombia; Chengdu, 
China; Chennai, India; Dar es Salaam, Tanzania; Dubai, 
UAE; Durban, South Africa; Hanoi, Vietnam; Ho Chi Minh 
City, Vietnam; Jakarta, Indonesia; Johannesburg, South 
Africa; Karachi, Pakistan; Medellin, Colombia; Mexico 
City, Mexico; Nairobi, Kenya; Paris, France; Quezon 
City, Philippines; Quito, Ecuador; Salvador, El Salvador; 
Santiago, Chile; Rome, Italy; Venice, Italy.
Learn more In progress2018 Health for Humanity Report 20
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Challenges of reporting and assuring progress against the 
SDG goals
Collaboration is at the heart of the SDGs—these ambitious 
goals cannot be achieved by one party alone but involve 
governments, business and communities working together to 
achieve significant sustainability impacts and improvements 
to peoples’ lives. We believe our commitment to partnership 
and collaboration helps us to achieve extraordinary results 
even though quantifying impacts and benefits across many 
partnerships is complex.
We have therefore reported and sought assurance on the 
progress against the 5-year targets which support our SDG 
goals. We have reported on progress based on the best 
information we have available, from our operations and those 
of our partners. However, we recognize that due to the nature 
of the projects supporting the targets, the data are subject to 
limitations including estimates, extrapolations and reliance on 
data and information provided by a broad range of partners 
that we work with to achieve these goals. For certain goals, 
assumptions are used that could result in an overstatement 
or understatement of lives benefited when trying to quantify 
performance in challenging environments. We summarize 
below some key information to provide our stakeholders 
with some insight into the challenges of reporting SDG goal 
performance.
Health Workforce, Women’s and Children’s Health
Many of our programs are co-funded, and while we 
make every effort to only report beneficiaries/healthcare 
professionals reached by our portion of the program, 
sometimes that is not possible. We do not have a direct line of 
sight to the data collection processes, as the data are gathered 
by our partners on the ground. Some of our partners have data 
quality assurance protocols, but some do not. For the purposes 
of our reporting, we assume each pregnant woman bears 
one infant—we do not use an estimation factor to discount 
for stillbirths or add for multiple births. For our goals, we 
count the number of individuals reached per year, aggregated 
over five years, which means that for multi-year programs we do not always report unique individuals reached. For 
example, in a program such as NurseConnect, which provides 
information and support to nurses via mobile messages, a 
nurse subscribing and participating in the service in 2016 will 
be counted as a beneficiary in each subsequent year for the 
length of time that he or she remains with the program (i.e. 
until unsubscribing). Every year, this nurse will benefit from 
new messages, based on research, evidence and content 
development. We also do not have 100% reporting as some 
data come in after organizational publication deadlines, which 
means we may have some undercounting. To remedy this, we 
have reduced the amount of time the partners have to report 
post project completion. Still, due to their own organizational 
processes and difficulties obtaining timely data from remote 
areas in some cases, some partners report after our auditing 
deadline. In order to capture the full range of our reach, we are 
updating our results for 2016 and 2017 with data reported past 
the auditing deadline for those years.
Essential Surgery
A large part of the data and progress for this goal comes from 
the work we undertake with The Medical and Surgical Skills 
Institute (MSSI) in Ghana. The MSSI reports the numbers, 
nationalities and disciplines of medical professionals that 
complete each MSSI course. However, estimating the 
number of patients benefiting from the skills and knowledge 
obtained in a course requires the use of estimates and 
extrapolations to account for the number of patients treated 
per week, potential duplicate visits (e.g., same patient 
being seen by a doctor and a nurse trained by MSSI), and 
the retention time for the knowledge gained. We have used 
conservative estimates for knowledge retention (1 year) and 
have not included the potential for the multiplier effect of 
the “train-the-trainer,” where trained medical professionals 
go on to train others. This year we have worked with MSSI 
to revise their feedback forms to include some validation of 
the assumptions of patients treated per healthcare worker 
trained. This validation will continue into 2019 and the results 
will be reflected in future reporting.Global Disease Challenges
When it comes to quantifying the progress against this goal, 
a large part of the data comes from the number of VERMOX 
doses donated, measured through the number of doses 
shipped. Historical data shows that about 80% – 90% of the 
children targeted for treatment in endemic countries receive 
two treatments each year. We thus have used a factorial of 1.6 
– 1.8 to estimate the number of children treated each year. The 
number of children treated estimated for 2016 was based on 
the factorial of 1.6. For 2017 and 2018 the figure is based on the 
factorial of 1.8.
Environmental Health
Success in achieving the desired impact for this goal depends 
on C40 city members initiating climate actions before 2020. 
In order to achieve the scale of impact, actions need to be 
ambitious and, therefore, take time to develop and implement. 
C40 is working with the current administrations of their city 
members to support their planned actions, however there 
is always a risk that actions do not get implemented due to 
changes in wider city circumstances (e.g. political or funding 
changes). We will aim to manage this risk by focusing on 
ambitious actions with larger scale impact spread across a 
number of cities, conducting careful vetting of proposed 
projects and making city participation as easy as possible.
When the Environmental Health goal was established in late 
2016, a qualifier was placed on the original target of 100 million 
citizens living across 30 cities. As we noted at the time, those 
potential figures were to be revised once cities and actions 
were confirmed with C40 Cities. In 2018, these details were 
confirmed and the number of potential citizens benefiting was 
revised to 60 million over the five-year goal.2018 Health for Humanity Report 21
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Starting at the Board of Directors level, the governance 
of citizenship and sustainability at Johnson & Johnson 
encompasses our three business segments (Consumer, 
Medical Devices and Pharmaceutical) as well as global 
enterprise functions. The Science, Technology & 
Sustainability Committee (STSC) has general  
oversight of our sustainability activities. Along with our 
Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee, the STSC reviews 
annual progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, 
initiatives being advanced by the Enterprise Governance 
Council, and our overall citizenship and sustainability efforts. 
Select members of the Executive Committee review the 
Health for Humanity Report.
Our office of Corporate Governance is responsible for 
raising visibility to citizenship and sustainability issues and 
activities that span multiple groups across the Enterprise, 
and for facilitating connections between teams and 
departments around governance of environment, social 
and governance (ESG) topics. In partnership with our 
Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability, Global 
Public Health, Global Community Impact and Sustainable 
Procurement teams, Corporate Governance connects and 
aligns various activities that contribute to advancing our 
citizenship and sustainability agenda.
To enhance our corporate governance structure, in early 
2016 we established the Johnson & Johnson Enterprise 
Governance Council (EGC). The EGC is comprised of senior 
leaders who represent our three business segments and our 
global enterprise functions with line of sight to, and ability to impact, ESG issues. The EGC has a formalized process and 
protocols for this governing body, including the quarterly 
assessment of an ESG priority topics scorecard, proprietary 
reputational research on our identified ESG priority topics, 
and ongoing elevation of topics for further review and 
assessment. This process is informed by our Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) Framework, which assists the EGC, 
management teams and the Board of Directors in identifying 
potential business risks. For more information, please see 
our Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Further, ESG 
priority topics are integrated into the ongoing standardized 
approach to risk assessments across the Enterprise by risk 
functions with management, which ensures a clear and 
consistent view of existing and emerging risk, identifies 
controls, and enables mitigations to be established to address 
those risks. The outcomes of these assessments are reflected 
in the progress updates shared as part of the ESG priority 
topics scorecard reviews by the EGC.
In 2018, the EGC led initiatives to further embed governance 
processes around key ways in which we work across the 
Enterprise, helping to improve our corporate culture and 
connectivity. In addition, the EGC kicked off work to refresh 
the Company’s ESG priority topics and establish an Enterprise 
Human Rights Working Group. The EGC continues to drive 
increased preparedness for ESG issues management, and 
fosters alignment and coordination of internal and external 
engagement efforts on these issues. Another important 
function of the EGC is to review and support progress against 
our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG) commitments.The Enterprise Governance Council Working Group 
(EGCWG) is the cross-functional “activation arm” of the 
EGC. The EGCWG is comprised of key enterprise functions 
and draws on the expertise of various subject matter experts 
across the Company, consulting with external advisors for 
additional specialized insight, as needed, to drive actions 
identified by the EGC. This diverse working group met 
four times in 2018 to review the status of key projects and 
emerging ESG topics and issues identified through our 
proprietary global intelligence system that analyzes which 
stakeholders, platforms and programs have the most impact 
on reputation. The EGCWG has accountability for tracking 
and managing the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, UN 
SDG commitments, and our Health for Humanity Report, 
and works proactively across the Enterprise to foster 
engagement around goal progress and commitments.
In addition to people across the Enterprise with formal job 
responsibilities related to citizenship and sustainability, 
thousands of employees around the globe support the 
implementation of our strategic citizenship and sustainability 
initiatives in their everyday work and help us make steady 
progress toward our bold vision of changing the trajectory of 
health for humanity.Sustainability Governance
GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-292018 Health for Humanity Report 22
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Stakeholder expectations and the business environment in which 
we operate constantly evolve. Our Priority Topics Assessment 
(PTA) process helps us identify and prioritize the environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) topics that matter most to our 
stakeholders and our Company. The results inform and shape our 
sustainability priorities and reporting. We have been conducting 
PTAs every two to three years since 2008, with our most recent 
assessment conducted in 2016. The stakeholder feedback from that 
2016 assessment continues to inform our reporting for this Report 
reflecting 2018. A detailed description of the 2016 PTA process, 
methodology, and definitions of topics be can found here.
For this Report we grouped our priority topics into four main sections, 
as shown in the Priority Topics Assessment grid on the right:Priority Topics Assessment
Importance to StakeholdersPotential for Social, Economic, Environmental Impact
Lower HigherLower HigherPQSR
Procurement &  
Supplier Management
Product End of LifeAccess & 
Affordability
Healthy Workforce
Economic Performance*Ethics & 
Compliance
Diverse & Inclusive Workforce
WaterGlobal Public Health
Product  
StewardshipInnovation
Corporate 
Governance
Compensation & 
RemunerationIngredients
 Counterfeiting & Illicit TradeWorkplace Safety
Data Protection & Privacy
WasteCommunity Impact & 
Development*
Climate & 
EnergyHuman Rights
Human Capital 
Development
Biodiversity
*Market Presence and Indirect Economic Development are reported as part of Economic Performance and 
Community Impact & Development, respectively.Better Health for All
Our People
Environmental HealthResponsible Business Practices
Certain priority topics are reflected in multiple sections because of 
the their cross-cutting nature.
To see how our Priority Topics map to the Global Reporting Initiative 
Standards, please see this table.Setting Priorities
GRI 102-472018 Health for Humanity Report 23
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
As a global healthcare company, we interact with numerous 
stakeholder groups at the global, national and local levels. 
Our Credo, written 75 years ago, acknowledges the diversity 
of stakeholders to whom we are responsible, and serves as 
our guide. Such engagement helps us learn about emerging 
sustainability topics while supporting Johnson & Johnson in 
creating long-term value for our Company and society.
The deep and longstanding relationships we cultivate with 
our stakeholders are vital to both our Credo-driven business 
strategies and our citizenship and sustainability approach. 
Our broad and consistent stakeholder engagement is 
essential to building successful business strategies and 
achieving our goal to deliver the best products and services 
possible.
Stakeholder engagement occurs at all levels of the 
Company, and information gained through these 
interactions is communicated through line management 
and, as appropriate, to senior management, including 
the Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee and Board 
of Directors. The goal of our decentralized approach is 
to connect our stakeholders with the most appropriate 
internal resources to address their needs and concerns, 
which benefits both our business and our stakeholders. As 
necessary to ensure consistency of approach, for broad-
based stakeholder engagements we leverage a customer 
relationship management system to provide visibility and 
management across the Enterprise.In determining with whom to engage with respect to 
environment, social and governance topics, we take into 
consideration a variety of factors, including:
• Alignment of our goals and values with those of the 
stakeholder group;
• Ability to improve human health, social, environmental 
and other outcomes because of this engagement;
• Opportunity for mutual learning.
Throughout 2018, members of our management team met 
with a significant number of our shareholders to discuss our 
Health for Humanity sustainability approach. This includes 
our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and other citizenship 
and sustainability commitments, as well as transparency 
around key environmental, social and governance measures. 
We hosted our first Health for Humanity Report webinar with 
investors to accompany the release of our annual Health for 
Humanity Report, providing shareholders the opportunity to 
engage and ask questions of leaders in Investor Relations, 
Product Quality & Compliance, Medical Safety, Global Public 
Health and Environmental Health, Safety and Sustainability.
To ensure we’re always investing for the future, we’re 
participating in important initiatives like the Embankment 
Project for Inclusive Capitalism, CECP’s Strategic Investor 
Initiative and the Business Roundtable. With these expert 
partners, we’re helping to shift the conversation in the 
financial markets toward a long-term view and measurement 
of the value to society that a business like ours creates.We also partnered with Business for Social Responsibility 
(BSR), a global nonprofit organization focused on  
corporate sustainability, on a formalized stakeholder 
feedback initiative. BSR solicited reactions and insights on the 
2017 Health for Humanity Report content from a broad base 
of stakeholders reflecting global public health institutions, 
investors, NGOs, and environmental leaders. Their guidance 
and feedback have been integrated into the 2018 Health for 
Humanity Report. In addition, this stakeholder feedback has 
been integrated into business and functional group strategies 
across the Enterprise, and the important insights will inform 
our 2019 Priority Topics Assessment and Health for Humanity 
2025 goal setting.
Stakeholder Engagement on This Report
Various internal stakeholders across Johnson & Johnson's 
global teams provided their input into this Report. The final 
content has been reviewed by the members of the  
Executive Committee.Engaging with Our Stakeholders
GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-442018 Health for Humanity Report 24
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Stakeholders
Stakeholder Group Methods of Engagement Issues
Advocacy Groups/Trade 
AssociationsOrganizational memberships, direct engagement, dialogue, sponsorships, conferences, 
research effortsProduct quality, safety and reliability, ethical business practices and performance, access to and 
affordability of medicines, global public health, community engagement and impact, product innovation, 
diversity, responsible sourcing, ingredient issues, workplace safety
Consumers Dedicated 24-hour, 7-days-a-week toll-free hotline in 23 languages, Johnson & Johnson 
website, brand websites, social media, focus groups, clinical trialsProduct quality, safety and reliability, proper product use, access to our products, materials/ingredients in 
our products, data protection and privacy, socially beneficial products, proper disposal of products, ethical 
behavior and performance
Customers Direct contact through sales, customer relationship managers, customer call centers, 
customer meetings, industry trade groups/meetingsProduct quality, safety and reliability, sales and distributions, supply and demand for products, ethical 
business practices, data protection and privacy, issues related to products, packaging, product end of life, 
pricing, manufacturing processes
Employees Our Credo survey, intranets, newsletters, company webcasts, town hall meetings, 
quarterly business updates, training sessions, anonymous 24-hour, 7-days-a-week toll-
free hotline in 23 languagesEthical business practices, business performance, sustainable innovation, workplace health and safety, 
human capital development, diversity and inclusion, human rights, access to and affordability of medicines, 
data protection and privacy
Government/Policy Makers Governmental affairs liaisons, direct engagement, Johnson & Johnson Political Action 
Committee, meetings, advocacyCompliance with regulations, ethical business practices, research and development activities, innovation in 
healthcare, pricing, access, policy positions, marketing practices
Healthcare Providers Sales representatives, continuing medical education liaisons, education initiatives, 
clinical researchers, advisory boards, support and education programs for caregiversProduct quality, safety and reliability, workplace health and safety, human rights, ethical business practices, 
product pricing and availability, access to and affordability of medicines, employee health and wellness, 
human capital development
Socially Responsible Investors Annual report, annual sustainability report, annual shareholders meeting, investor 
releases, quarterly earnings, road shows, completion of surveys, Johnson & Johnson 
website, conferences, dialogue, direct engagementProduct quality, safety and reliability, workplace health and safety, human rights, ethical business practices, 
product pricing and availability, access to and affordability of medicines, employee health and wellness, 
human capital development
Local Communities Direct local engagement, philanthropic efforts, employee volunteers, sponsorships, 
collaborative partnershipsEnvironmental issues, site expansions or closures, employment, transportation, safety and health issues, 
emergency planning, local community issues, volunteer efforts
NGOs Direct engagement, dialogue, collaborative partnerships, sponsorships, organizational 
memberships, conferences, social mediaDiverse organizations with interests across all areas of our business
Quasi-Governmental 
Organizations/Academic 
InstitutionsDirect engagement, collaborative partnerships, face-to-face meetings, research, 
academic studiesProduct quality, safety and reliability, studying/addressing health issues, ethical business practices
Suppliers Direct engagement, collaborative partnerships, Responsibility Standards for Suppliers, 
outreach by category leaders, supplier scorecards, face-to-face meetings, trainings and 
workshops, supplier diversity initiatives, surveys, assessments and auditsProduct quality, safety and reliability, ethical business practices, procurement practices, workplace health 
and safety, environmental and sustainability practices, human rights in the workplace, data protection and 
privacy, product innovation, diversity and inclusion2018 Health for Humanity Report 25
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Memberships
We participate in several non-governmental and advocacy organizations and industry associations on topics of interest and 
priority to the Company. Select memberships and associations include:
• Advanced Medical Technology Association
• Asia Pacific Medical Technology Association
• Association for the Advancement of Medical 
Instrumentation
• Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
• Biotechnology Industry Organization
• BIO Ventures for Global Health
• Business Roundtable
• California Healthcare Institute
• CDP (formerly titled Carbon Disclosure Project)
• Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose (CECP) Strategic 
Investor Initiative 
• Children Without Worms
• Climate Leadership Council
• Closed Loop Fund• Consumer Goods Forum
• Consumer Healthcare Products Association
• Corporate Eco Forum
• Cosmetics Europe
• Council of Supply Chain Manufacturing Professionals
• Embankment Project for Inclusive Capitalism 
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and 
Associations
• GS1
• Harvard Medical School
• Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association
• HealthCare Institute of New Jersey
• Healthcare Leadership Council
• Medtech Europe• National Health Council
• New Horizons Collaborative
• New York University School of Medicine
• Personal Care Products Council
• Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America
• Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative
• The Conference Board
• The Sustainability Consortium
• United Nations
• United Nations Global Compact
• United States Agency for International Development
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce
• United Way – local chapters
• World Health Organization2018 Health for Humanity Report 26
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
At Johnson & Johnson, we have made it our 
business to advance better health. For more 
than 130 years, we have been committed 
to improving the health of individuals, 
families and communities around the 
world, including the most vulnerable 
and underserved populations. Today, we 
continue to invest and collaborate to help 
solve some of the most complex global 
health challenges. By harnessing Johnson 
& Johnson’s breadth, scale and legacy of 
scientific innovation, we strive to live Our 
Credo values and change the trajectory of 
health for humanity.
In this section, we describe a wide range 
of strategies, approaches and initiatives 
that the Johnson & Johnson Family of 
Companies continues to progress in order 
to deliver Better Health for All around 
the world, addressing specific healthcare 
challenges and needs. In this Report, 
we provide a broad overview of our 
engagement and activities in each area. 
We encourage you to visit our website for 
additional information.
Key Achievements in 2018
• Made a significant investment to 
expand the footprint and capabilities 
of our dedicated Global Public Health 
organization in Africa with fully 
operational regional offices, each 
staffed with local employees.Better Health for All
GRI 103-2; 103-3
• Launched a new program in Rwanda to 
enable access to modern anti-psychotics 
for the broad population, and treated the 
first person with 3-month long-acting 
paliperidone palmitate.
• Enabled access to SIRTURO in 114 
countries, including all 30 high 
MDR-TB burden countries, provided 
access to 75 countries through the 
bedaquiline donation program, and 
delivered access to over 82,509 
patients between 2012 and 2018.
• Continued expanding access to proven 
interventions and developing new, 
innovative tools to treat and prevent 
HIV, including positive primary analysis 
results of the two Phase 3 clinical studies 
for a novel, long-acting injectable two-
drug regimen to treat HIV.
Areas of Opportunity
• Continue to build capabilities in digital 
health, focusing on integrated solutions 
to improve access to medicines.
• Encourage open, candid and evidence-
based multi-stakeholder dialogue 
to engage the global community 
on overcoming access challenges, 
strengthening health systems and 
outcomes-based financing.
• Strengthen measurement of health 
outcomes by continuing to embed 
monitoring and evaluation across all 
programs.2018 Health for Humanity Report 27
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
World Without Disease
J&J-2 (GRI 103)
Addressing critical public health challenges requires bold 
leadership and novel approaches. Despite tremendous progress in 
medical science and technology during the last decades, significant 
health gaps remain for many people around the globe. Emerging 
new global challenges will require collective effort and partnerships 
to deliver solutions. Johnson & Johnson Global Public Health 
(GPH) is the first fully dedicated organization within a healthcare 
company focused on combining innovative R&D, novel access 
programs, country-based operations and advocacy. GPH aims to 
ensure that treatments and technologies are available, affordable 
and accessible for the world’s most underserved populations as we 
work to realize a world without disease.
Our GPH strategy tackles some of the world’s most pressing 
health challenges, targeting transformational health outcomes 
for individuals and communities. This includes aspirations to 
eliminate human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and tuberculosis 
(TB), and reduce the burden of neglected tropical diseases and 
non-communicable diseases alongside addressing critical issues 
such as mental health and the threat of drug resistance and global 
pandemics.
As a global healthcare leader, Johnson & Johnson is at the forefront 
of addressing the world’s most intractable diseases. In 2018, we 
maintained our planned actions to reduce the burden of prominent 
diseases and are on track against our published targets, advancing 
better health for adults and children around the world.“We recognize that our efforts to advance better 
health for all by establishing ecosystems of care are 
a major undertaking, and that our goals are daunting 
in all respects. But we know that with our breadth, 
scale and long-term relationships in all facets of 
health, we are uniquely positioned to take the lead. 
We believe better health is the foundation of social 
advancement. When people are healthy, they can 
gain an education, take care of their families and 
contribute productively to their economies; better 
health for all means thriving communities. ”
                 Jaak Peeters, Global Head, Johnson & Johnson Global                   
                 Public Health 
         ACHIEVED  
2020 SDG Commitment Progress
5-year Target: 175 million individuals 
will have benefited from  
Johnson & Johnson solutions that 
prevent, control and eliminate glob-
al diseases.
2016-2018 Progress: 306 million 
beneficiaries (175% of overall goal 
achieved).
 View Scorecard
2018 Health for Humanity Report 28
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
a robust HIV antibody response in all healthy volunteers. Further, 
at the 2018 HIV Research for Prevention Conference in Madrid, 
Spain, we shared the primary analysis of immune response data 
for a tetravalent (4-valent) version of the mosaic-based preventive 
vaccine against HIV-1 infection. In this Phase 1/2a study, known as 
the TRAVERSE study, the tetravalent vaccine was well-tolerated 
among HIV negative volunteers, and significantly enhanced the 
breadth of immune responses to different HIV-1 strains compared 
to the trivalent version that was evaluated in APPROACH.
The early findings from the APPROACH and TRAVERSE studies 
were critical in enabling us to progress to the next stage: the 
first-ever large-scale efficacy study for the mosaic-based 
vaccine regimen. Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chair of the Executive 
Committee and Chief Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson, 
provided an update on this study—called Imbokodo—at the 
Global Citizen Festival in New York City in September 2018, which 
Johnson & Johnson supported as the Major Health Partner for the 
third consecutive year. Together with partners like the National 
Institutes of Health, the HIV Vaccine Trials Network, the Bill & 
Melinda Gates Foundation and the South African Medical Research 
Council, among many others, Janssen is conducting this study in 
five southern African countries in an effort to identify mechanisms 
to prevent the spread of HIV and lead the way to developing a 
global vaccine effective against the multiple strains of the virus.Making HIV History
There are currently around 37 million people globally living with 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/AIDS1 and many more are 
affected by the challenges remaining in the areas of prevention, 
treatment, access and public education. The Janssen Pharmaceutical 
Companies of Johnson & Johnson (Janssen) have been on the front 
lines of fighting HIV for decades through the introduction of eight 
transformational HIV medicines, including three antiviral agents 
and five combination products developed in partnership. We are 
innovating to help patients currently facing a lifetime of treatment 
through simplified, innovative regimens. Additionally, the discovery 
and development of an investigational preventive vaccine is a 
major part of our work. We are also engaged in early science for 
a functional cure, investigating strategies to help patients achieve 
treatment-free remission.
Preventive HIV Vaccine
In July 2018, The Lancet published initial immune response data 
regarding our investigational mosaic-based preventive vaccine 
regimen against HIV-1 infection. The Lancet paper provided the first 
detailed analysis of the first results from the early-stage (Phase 
1/2a) study, known as the APPROACH study, which was conducted 
among 393 healthy HIV-uninfected adults in Rwanda, South Africa, 
Thailand, Uganda and the United States. The data generated 
suggest that the vaccine regimen was well-tolerated and elicited 
“ Developing a vaccine against HIV is a top priority 
and will be a critical tool to help create a world 
without AIDS. We’re joining forces with the world’s 
leading HIV researchers and global health advocates 
to help advance our experimental vaccine. Working 
together, our goal is to make HIV history. ”
               Paul Stoffels, Vice Chair of the Executive Committee        
               and Chief Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson“ We are in a golden age in HIV vaccine science. 
Currently we are exploring two different active HIV 
vaccine strategies as well as evaluating whether a 
trial using neutralizing antibodies can protect against 
HIV . In the next 4 years, we have the potential to 
change the game, and bring valuable tools to the 
public to protect communities from HIV .”
Professor Glenda Gray, President & CEO of the South African 
Medical Research Council (SAMRC) and Protocol Chair of the 
Imbokodo study
In 2018, we opened our state-of-the-
art vaccines launch facility in the 
Netherlands. The facility is constructed 
for production of late-stage (Phase 
3) clinical trial supplies for Janssen’s 
investigational vaccines targeting HIV, 
Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Ebola, and 
a universal influenza vaccine. Pending 
regulatory approvals, the facility will 
also be ready to manufacture the first 
batches of vaccines for real-world use.
Expanding our world-class 
vaccine manufacturing 
capabilities 
2018 Health for Humanity Report 29
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Progress Towards Novel Treatment Regimen
The development of novel medicines with extended release 
suspension for injection may reduce the impact of treatment on 
people’s lives. This novel approach would signify a much-needed 
treatment evolution for people living with HIV, moving from dosing 
365 to just 12 or even six times per year. Janssen, in collaboration 
with ViiV Healthcare, is investigating the potential of a long-acting 
injectable treatment regimen combining long-acting rilpivirine 
(Janssen) and cabotegravir (ViiV) for the treatment of HIV.
In August and October 2018, Janssen and ViiV Healthcare 
announced primary findings from the two global Phase 3 trials – 
ATLAS and FLAIR. Both ATLAS and FLAIR met criteria for non-
inferiority of this novel monthly regimen versus standard-of-care 
daily oral regimens. The Phase 3 results from these studies show 
that a two-drug injectable treatment regimen may provide people 
living with HIV the option of managing their virus with just 12 
injection visits a year.
Partnering to Make HIV History
In addition to these advances in creating a global vaccine for HIV, 
“ Children are more prone to developing drug 
resistance to first-line therapies, and yet the 
supply of the second-line medicines they need is 
constrained. By working together with innovator 
companies like Johnson & Johnson, as well as 
generic manufacturers, PEPFAR is determined to 
address this critical gap. Because we know that if 
we don’t take action now, the pediatric HIV care 
challenge will only grow. ”
Ambassador Deborah L. Birx, M.D., U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator 
and U.S. Special Representative for Global Health Diplomacywe have progressed several initiatives to broaden access to HIV 
treatment, such as partnering with the U.S. President's Emergency 
Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) on two of their key platforms, 
DREAMS and MenStar, and expanded our capabilities to meet 
supplies for patients who need them around the world, such as 
through the New Horizons Collaboration. Some examples are noted 
below.
Empowering youth in South Africa to reduce the spread of HIV
Girls and young women account for 74% of new HIV infections 
among adolescents in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).2 To address this 
growing challenge, PEPFAR, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, 
Girl Effect, Johnson & Johnson, ViiV, and others partnered to 
create DREAMS, an ambitious $385 million initiative across 
10 countries in SSA dedicated to helping girls develop into 
Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-free, Mentored, and Safe 
women.
In 2018, in South Africa, we launched “DREAMS, Thina Abantu 
Abasha,” a youth-led peer-to-peer initiative aimed at empowering 
youth to substantially reduce the rate of HIV infections. During 
the year, we expanded the program from KwaZulu-Natal to 
Gauteng, two provinces with the highest rates of HIV infection. 
“Thina Abantu Abasha” is Zulu for “We the Youth” and is based on 
the premise that no action of empowering the youth should take 
place without the direct involvement of youth themselves. True 
to its name, the program is an entirely youth-driven initiative. The 
program content, design and implementation model was directed 
by the Youth Leadership Team consisting of eight dynamic young 
people with a passion for youth empowerment and HIV reduction. 
The program, which is undertaken in collaboration with the United 
Nations Population Fund South Africa, the Department of Health 
Youth Program and She Conquers, focuses on empowering young 
people with leadership, employability and sexual and reproductive 
health resources—three themes identified by youth as key 
empowerment drivers in preventing the spread of HIV.         IN PROGRESS  
2020 Goal Progress 
50,980
adult patients and 523 pediatric patients 
received access to HIV/AIDS therapy 
with the branded and generic versions of 
PREZISTA, INTELENCE and EDURANT.
 View Scorecard
2018 Health for Humanity Report 30
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Our pledge to the MenStar Coalition
In 2018, we confirmed our pledge to the MenStar coalition, which 
brings together seven global founding partners to expand the 
diagnoses and treatment of HIV infections in men, particularly in 
sub-Saharan Africa. This a key way forward to breaking the cycle 
of HIV transmission and ultimately ending the AIDS epidemic as a 
public health threat by 2030.
Expanding global access to HIV treatment for children in need
For nearly five years, Janssen has been working to address the needs 
of this significantly underserved population in sub-Saharan Africa. In 
2013, Janssen launched the New Horizons Collaborative, a first-of-
its-kind pediatric HIV treatment donation program now available 
in 10 countries, to provide treatment, including child-friendly 
formulations, free of charge to eligible countries able to advance 
pediatric HIV treatment. Learn more about the program here.
In 2018, Janssen and PEPFAR launched a new initiative aimed at 
expanding global access to HIV antiretroviral therapy (ART) for 
children in in the developing world. Worldwide, approximately 1.8 
million children under age 15 have HIV, and most are living in sub-
Saharan Africa.3 Only 52% of these children are on HIV treatment.4 
Janssen will work to provide sustainable access to a pediatric 
formulation of its medicine, darunavir (75mg).
Progress in reducing HIV risk for women
As part of our multi-year partnership with the nonprofit 
International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM), IPM applied to 
the European Medicines Agency for approval of their monthly 
dapivirine vaginal ring that reduces the risk of HIV-1 infection in 
young women, offering a discreet prevention tool for women. Read 
more here.Partnering to end HIV in Uganda
In 2018, we partnered with Baylor-Uganda, a Ugandan HIV not-for-
profit organization, and Pepal to host The International Summit on 
Leadership in Healthcare in Uganda. The two-day summit brought 
together national and international stakeholders, including the 
Prime Minister and State Minster for Health of Uganda, to share 
strategies for success for leadership in healthcare. The summit was 
a platform to showcase and develop ideas for sustainability and the 
launch of a new leadership academy.2018 Health for Humanity Report 31
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Eradicating Tuberculosis
Tuberculosis (TB) is the world’s deadliest infectious disease. Despite 
being preventable and—with timely diagnosis and appropriate 
treatment—curable, an estimated 1.6 million people die of TB every 
year. Approximately 95% of these deaths occur in low- and middle-
income countries.5 
Growing resistance to the most commonly used TB drugs is 
compounding this challenge. Multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) is a 
persistent and growing threat; in fact, the World Health Organization 
(WHO) estimates that nearly half a million new cases of MDR-TB 
occur worldwide each year,6 and drug-resistant TB now accounts for 
one third of all deaths due to antimicrobial resistance (AMR).7 
To learn more about our commitment to TB, please visit www.jnj.
com/tb. To read more about our AMR efforts, please visit our AMR 
section.
In 2012, Johnson & Johnson brought forward SIRTURO 
(bedaquiline), the first novel TB antibiotic in nearly half a century . 
Since then, we have partnered extensively in high-burden countries 
to provide access to and ensure appropriate use of our treatment 
and to raise awareness about TB more broadly.
As part of this effort, in 2015, Johnson & Johnson launched a 
four-year donation program with the U.S. Agency for International 
Development (USAID) and JSC Pharmstandard, one of the leading 
Russian pharmaceutical manufacturers. We originally committed 
to donate 30,000 courses of bedaquiline to up to 110 eligible 
low- and middle-income countries; however, in response to high 
demand, we more than tripled our commitment. In 2018, we also         ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress 
75,869 
patients received access to MDR-TB 
therapy with SIRTURO (bedaquiline). For 
6,959 patients provided access in 2016, 
an estimated 6,110 have been potentially 
cured, based on the 87.8% cure rate.
 View Scorecard
further consolidated our partnership with Pharmstandard with 
a Memorandum of Understanding to enable Pharmstandard to 
manufacture and globally export bedaquiline.
Several notable events in 2018 have begun to broaden the use of 
bedaquiline globally. In June 2018, South Africa became the first 
country to recommend an injection-free, bedaquiline-containing 
regimen for all eligible MDR-TB patients. This decision was based 
on programmatic data showing reduced mortality and improved 
patient outcomes for patients on bedaquiline-containing regimens. 
Later in the year, the WHO issued new guidelines recommending 
the use of bedaquiline as a core drug for inclusion in conventional 
(long-course) regimens unless its use is contraindicated.8 
To enable a more rapid scale-up of bedaquiline to MDR-TB patients, 
Johnson & Johnson announced a not-for-profit price in July 
2018. This offer was extended to more than 130 eligible countries 
procuring through the Stop TB Partnership’s Global Drug Facility, 
including all previously donation-eligible countries.
Catalyzing TB innovation
In the lead-up to the first-ever UN High-Level Meeting on 
Tuberculosis in September 2018, Johnson & Johnson co-hosted the 
landmark TB Innovation Summit with the Stop TB Partnership, the 
World Economic Forum, the United Nations Foundation, and the 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria. The Summit focused on 
the urgent need for innovation—both in the lab and on the ground 
in high-burden countries—to drive progress toward the shared 
goal of ending TB. Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chair of the Executive 
Committee and Chief Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson, spoke 
on a panel and highlighted the important role of the private sector 
in driving innovation. To support the Sustainable Development Goal 
target of ending TB by 2030, he also announced our comprehensive 
10-year TB initiative, with the goal of saving an estimated 1.8 million 
lives and preventing 12 million new infections. Through this initiative, 
we will work with partners to improve detection of undiagnosed 
cases of TB, broaden access to bedaquiline, and accelerate R&D to 
discover next-generation TB medicines and multi-drug regiments.82,509 
courses of bedaquiline delivered to patients in need in 
more than 114 countries between 2012 and 20182018 Health for Humanity Report 32
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Expanding access in South Africa and China
At the TB 2018 Conference in July, Johnson & Johnson 
announced a landmark collaboration with South Africa aimed 
at scaling up access to bedaquiline by offering the medicine 
to South Africa—and to more than 130 additional eligible 
countries—at a not-for-profit price. This commitment was 
made in recognition of South Africa’s unparalleled leadership 
in the fight against MDR-TB. Earlier in 2018, South Africa 
became the first country in the world to recommend replacing 
injectable drugs with bedaquiline for the treatment of MDR-TB. 
Bedaquiline.
Johnson & Johnson is supporting the Chinese government in 
its efforts to end TB, including by improving case detection, 
training healthcare professionals to manage TB and MDR-TB 
more effectively and, appropriately, raising awareness and 
reducing stigma among the public, and accelerating access to 
effective treatment in collaboration with partners.
Since 2016, Johnson & Johnson has been partnering with 
China’s National Health Commission (NHC), Bill & Melinda 
Gates Foundation and the Chinese Center for Disease Control 
and Prevention (China CDC) to undertake a New Drug 
Introduction Program, aimed at ensuring appropriate access 
to our MDR-TB treatment.
Additionally, in 2018 we launched a collaboration with the 
NHC, China CDC and diagnostic manufacturer Cepheid aimed 
at accelerating TB and MDR-TB patient finding in poverty-
stricken regions in China.
Advancing progress toward a TB-free India
India has the highest burden of TB and MDR-TB in the world. 
Last year, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced 
a bold vision for a TB-free India by 2025—also outlined 
in Government of India’s National Strategic Plan for TB 
Elimination. In support of this, we are collaborating with 
the Government of India and other partners to tackle TB 
by supporting their efforts to increase access to treatment, 
improve diagnostic capacity, train healthcare providers, and raise awareness of TB at the community level.
Ending pediatric TB in Vietnam
TB remains the leading cause of mortality among all infectious 
diseases in Vietnam. Children are hard hit by TB, as the disease 
is harder to detect and also progresses more rapidly in this 
population. Less than 50% of children with TB in Vietnam 
receive the preventive therapy that could reduce their risk of 
developing the active form of the disease.9 
To help address this public health crisis, in 2016, the global 
health nonprofit PATH and Johnson & Johnson formed a 
unique partnership, known as Breath for Life. The goal was to 
work with local partners to improve the detection, diagnosis 
and management of TB in a heavily burdened area in Vietnam-
Nghe An. Two years on, there are indications of progress that 
the number of pediatric TB cases detected in Nghe An and 
the number of eligible children receiving preventive therapy 
have significantly increased. Also, Breath for Life supported 
hundreds of health workers receiving specialized training in 
pediatric TB detection and treatment.2018 Health for Humanity Report 33
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Combating Neglected Tropical Diseases
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), a diverse group of 
communicable diseases common primarily in developing countries, 
cause substantial illness in more than one billion people worldwide.10 
These diseases, including dengue, roundworm and hookworm, 
impact the poorest, most vulnerable people on the planet and 
people living in poverty are the most affected. We continue to target 
resources to combat NTDs through R&D, product donations and 
partnerships. To facilitate additional research and breakthrough 
innovation in NTDs, Janssen shares 80,000 chemical compounds 
from its Jump-stARter molecular library with the global research 
community to help collaborators accelerate treatment and 
prevention of NTD’s, along with TB, malaria, and other diseases 
common in the developing world.
Intestinal worms: Soil-transmitted helminthiasis (STH) is among 
the most common infections worldwide, affecting the most 
deprived communities. Approximately 1.5 billion people are infected 
worldwide, with children disproportionately at risk. According to the 
WHO, more than 800 million children live in endemic areas in need 
of treatment.11 
As an original signatory of the 2012 London Declaration on 
Neglected Tropical Diseases, we have met our commitments of 
donating up to 200 million doses annually and developing a new 
chewable, child-friendly formulation of VERMOX (mebendazole) to 
treat STH. In 2018, we extended our existing donation commitment 
an additional five years to donate 200 million doses annually through 
2025.
 We also submitted a prequalification dossier to the WHO in 2018 
for VERMOX CHEWABLE, a new formulation of mebendazole that 
can either be chewed or mixed with a small amount of water to 
form a soft mass that's easier for very young children to swallow. 
The dossier was prequalified by the WHO in April 2019, marking 
an important milestone in our efforts to combat STH infections in 
underserved regions around the world. The VERMOX CHEWABLE is 
available in limited quantities this year, and in 2020 will replace the 
current solid tablet in Johnson & Johnson’s donation program, which 
will enable us to reach one of the most vulnerable populations—
children as young as one year of age—with this critical medicine.We also work continuously with the WHO, Ministries of Health in 
endemic countries, and other partners to ensure medicines reach 
children in need. For more than a decade, Johnson & Johnson has 
been a lead contributor to Children Without Worms that supports 
STH initiatives. Additionally, we are leading STH research initiatives 
via partnerships with other industry, academia and NGO partners.
Through a Johnson & Johnson Foundation grant, we support the 
War on Worms campaign in partnership with University of the 
Philippines Manila to implement school-based, teacher-assisted 
deworming programs, coupled with improvements in water, 
sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) and health promotion, trained over 
12,000 health workers and benefited more than two million children 
in the Philippines. The campaign also includes the donation of the 
deworming medicine VERMOX.
Dengue: Dengue is a viral infection transmitted by mosquito, and 
one of the leading causes of hospitalization and death among 
children in Asia and Latin America. Worldwide prevalence is 
growing, with potential for an epidemic in many countries. The WHO 
listed dengue in the top 10 global health threats in 2019; today, more 
than 125 countries live in fear of the next epidemic.12 
The aim of our dengue program is to develop a potent, first-in-class 
antiviral for the prevention of dengue, both for travelers to—and 
vulnerable populations living in—dengue-endemic areas.
In 2018, we reached a significant milestone as we entered the clinical 
development stage by starting a First in Human investigational 
small molecule inhibitor study in October. We are partnering in this 
initiative with the Wellcome Trust, a global charitable foundation, 
and the University of Leuven in Belgium for the development of 
antiviral medicines to fight dengue.        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress 
592M 
doses of VERMOX donated in 30 
countries with 304.6 million children 
having been targeted for treatment.
 View Scorecard
1.4B+ 
doses of mebendazole donated since 20062018 Health for Humanity Report 34
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
As part of this effort, we are:
• Supporting the first-ever government-initiated national mental 
health survey to better understand the prevalence and burden 
of mental health disorders in low-resource settings and further 
inform policy, budgets and healthcare provider resourcing for 
the delivery of high-quality mental healthcare.
• Accelerating access to innovative schizophrenia medicines, 
including undertaking a clinical study to determine the value 
and impact of introducing long-acting injectable treatments 
(paliperidone palmitate).
• Enabling Partners in Health through a three-year  
Johnson & Johnson Foundation grant to expand and scale 
up their innovative Mentoring and Enhanced Supervision 
at Health Centers (MESH) model for mental health in two 
additional districts in Rwanda. The MESH model integrates 
mental healthcare into a community-based healthcare setting, 
increasing the number of trained mental healthcare workers 
and facilitating patient access to quality care within the 
communities where they live.
• Supporting the Centre for Global Mental Health, co-hosted by 
the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and King’s 
College London, to assist the development of a new generation 
of mental healthcare professionals on the front lines of care in 
communities throughout Africa and other parts of the world.
This is the first systematic effort to integrate mental healthcare 
into the public primary healthcare system in Rwanda. Through 
this innovative work, we aspire to change the trajectory of mental 
health treatment and care in sub-Saharan Africa and beyond.
The stigma of mental illness
As a way of continuing Dr. Paul Janssen's legacy of championing 
science for humanity, in 2018 we launched a new initiative, The Art 
& Science of Ending Stigma About Mental Illness, with the mission 
to reduce cultural stigma of mental illness and increase awareness 
of the biological basis of brain disorders. The program combines 
the transcendent nature of art in its many forms with the rationality 
of science to engage the public in understanding mental illness and 
how we can work together to conquer stigma.Transforming Mental Healthcare
Worldwide, mental illness devastates individuals, families and 
communities, and is a growing global public health challenge. 
Three-quarters of all people suffering from mental illness live in 
low- and middle-income countries with fewer than one in 50 people 
with severe mental illnesses in these countries receiving  
evidence-based treatment.13 
Access to care is complicated by several challenges, such as 
insufficient data on the burden of mental illness; the lack of trained 
healthcare providers; inconsistent access to care and affordable, 
quality medicines; and strong social stigma associated with mental 
illness. Treating severe mental illness, including schizophrenia, 
represents a significant investment for the healthcare system.
With more than 60 years of supporting those affected by mental 
illness, Johnson & Johnson is committed to expanding access to 
transformational mental health innovations to positively impact 
people’s lives. In August 2018, Johnson & Johnson announced a 
comprehensive partnership with the Rwanda Ministry of Health 
to strengthen and expand access to quality mental healthcare 
in the country. Over the past 25 years, Rwanda has made 
significant progress in this field. Together, we aim to transform 
mental healthcare in the country through a series of innovative 
collaborations, demonstrating that it is possible to apply an 
affordable, sustainable and scalable quality care model for the 
treatment of severe mental illness, specifically schizophrenia, in 
low- and middle-income countries.
“ The Ministry of Health believes this partnership 
comes in due time as addressing severe mental illness 
is one of our priority areas in order to ensure equitable 
access to mental health services for those in need. ”
Dr. Diane Gashumba, Honorable Minister of Health for RwandaDr. Diane Gashumba, Rwanda Minister of 
Health with Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chair 
of the Executive Committee and Chief 
Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 35
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
New for treatment-resistant depression
In 2018, Janssen submitted a New Drug Application to U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) and a Marketing Authorization 
Application to the European Medicines Agency seeking approval 
of esketamine nasal spray for treatment-resistant depression (TRD) 
in adults. In March 2019, the U.S. FDA-approved SPRAVATO 
(esketamine) CIII nasal spray for adults with TRD who have cycled 
through multiple treatments without relief. SPRAVATO uses the 
first new mechanism of action in decades to treat major depressive 
disorder.14 15 16 Esketamine has U.S. FDA Breakthrough Therapy 
Designations for treatment-resistant depression and for a second 
indication, major depressive disorder with imminent risk for 
suicide, which is currently in clinical development.
 New for schizophrenia
In 2018, the U.S. FDA approved an expansion to the U.S. Prescribing 
Information for our treatment (paliperidone palmitate) to include 
real-world data demonstrating its superior effectiveness for 
adults living with schizophrenia in delaying time to relapse versus 
commonly prescribed oral antipsychotics. This marks an important 
milestone in our work to serve the needs of our mental health 
community, and enables us to engage healthcare professionals with 
clear evidence of how our medicine performs in the patients they 
are likely to see every day in clinical practice.“ We are bringing mental health to the  
attention of the world and we’re committed to 
advancing innovation and access and  
destigmatizing mental health. ”
               Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chairman of the Executive       
               Committee and Chief Scientific Officer,  
               Johnson & Johnson
2018 Health for Humanity Report 36
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Global Health Security &  
Preventing Pandemics
The global community is extremely vulnerable to infectious 
diseases with pandemic potential. In today’s hyper-connected 
world, these diseases can have staggering public health and 
economic consequences. Globally, outbreaks of such diseases are 
occurring with increasing frequency, exacerbated by globalization, 
urbanization and growing resistance of pathogens to available 
drugs.
Johnson & Johnson believes that global health security is 
everyone’s responsibility and requires coordinated effort from 
governments, civil society and healthcare companies. Our experts 
are working tirelessly to help prevent the next pandemic.
We are actively engaged in global pandemic preparedness across 
multiple disease areas. Through Janssen, we are developing new 
vaccines and treatments to combat a wide range of infectious 
diseases that are already pandemics, such as HIV and tuberculosis 
(TB), or that have pandemic potential, including Ebola, Zika and 
influenza.
To address other known threats and prepare for those that may 
emerge, we were founding members of a unique public-private 
partnership, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations 
(CEPI), which now finances and coordinates the development of 
new vaccines to prevent and contain infectious disease epidemics. 
CEPI, supported by Germany, Japan, Norway and the UK, the Bill 
& Melinda Gates Foundation, Wellcome Trust and others, seeks to 
give the world an insurance policy against epidemics by delivering 
a pipeline of promising vaccine candidates that are tested and 
ready for use as soon as a disease breaks out.
Research to prevent new epidemics
In 2018, CEPI allocated funding of $19 million to experts at Janssen 
Vaccines and The Jenner Institute at the University of Oxford to 
work on the development of new vaccines against three major 
diseases: the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) virus; the 
brain-damaging Nipah virus; and the Lassa virus, which causes hemorrhagic fever. MERS first emerged in humans in Saudi Arabia 
in 2012 and has since spread to infect more than 2,200 people in 
dozens of countries, killing one in three of those it infects. Both 
the Lassa and Nipah viruses cause small but serious outbreaks of 
disease in Asia and Africa, and experts say they have shown the 
capacity to spread across borders and become fast-growing and 
potential deadly epidemics.
The Johnson & Johnson Office of the Chief Medical Officer 
partnered with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ 
(HHS) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and 
Response to develop innovative products that address the possibly 
damaging health effects of chemical, biological, radiation and 
nuclear threats, emerging infectious diseases, and antimicrobial 
resistant infections.
Ebola: Johnson & Johnson has been a leader in efforts to help 
prevent Ebola outbreaks. In partnership with the National Institute 
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the Biomedical Advanced 
Research and Development Authority (BARDA) in the United 
States, Europe’s Innovative Medicines Initiative, Bavarian Nordic 
A/S and other stakeholders, we accelerated clinical testing of an 
investigational two-dose Ebola vaccine regimen in development 
at Janssen. This led to multiple Janssen-sponsored clinical studies 
for the Ebola vaccine across Africa, Europe and the United States. 
Positive Phase 1 findings were published in 2017, showing that 100% 
of healthy volunteers receiving the vaccine regimen generated an 
Ebola virus-specific antibody response that was still high after one 
year following vaccination.
We are closely monitoring the current Ebola outbreak in the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and stand ready to 
mobilize our resources and expertise if we are called upon to do so. 
We have maintained a significant stockpile for the express purpose 
of tackling such outbreaks. If deemed appropriate by the WHO or 
authorities in the DRC, we will mobilize to make supplies of our 
investigational vaccine available to public health authorities and the 
people of the DRC.One of the first study volunteers is 
vaccinated with the Janssen Ebola vaccine 
in Sierra Leone, Africa.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 37
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Pandemic Influenza: Because of their ease of transmission and 
rapid mutations, influenza viruses continue to pose a significant 
threat to global public health. Every year, more than one billion 
flu cases are reported worldwide, resulting in five million cases 
of severe illness and up to 650,000 deaths globally.17 To address 
this challenge, we partner with many of the world’s leading 
experts, policy makers, academic and clinical institutions, NGOs, 
and other pharmaceutical companies for the development of 
innovative medicines and vaccines. For example, our partnership 
with the BARDA part of the U.S. HHS is designed to develop a 
comprehensive portfolio of therapeutics and vaccines to protect 
communities in the event of an influenza pandemic and other 
infectious disease threats.
We continue to explore ways to stem the generation of new viral 
mutations and develop new diagnostic tools for early identification, 
while collaborating to develop an investigational single universal 
vaccine to help protect against influenza. One development, an 
oral influenza treatment, pimodivir, began Phase 3 clinical trials in 
January 2018.
Zika: The unprecedented Zika virus epidemic across the Americas 
in 2016 led the WHO to declare Zika a public health emergency 
of international concern. In response to the outbreak, particularly 
in Brazil, Johnson & Johnson partnered with IPADS, a Brazilian 
NGO, and the National Council of Municipal Health Secretaries, to 
help develop ZikaLab, an initiative to train healthcare providers on 
Zika, including transmission, prevention, diagnosis, treatment and 
follow-up. In addition, Janssen is collaborating with the Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center to develop a Zika vaccine.
Malaria: We collaborate with Medicines for Malaria Venture 
(MMV) to help develop better medicines to protect vulnerable 
populations from malaria, including children and pregnant women. 
We are combining our expertise—Janssen in long-acting injectable 
formulation technology and MMV in malaria drug development—
to develop a slow release dosage form that provides protection 
against malaria for up to three months with a single injection. 
In 2018, the combined team began investigations with P218—a 
compound with the potential to provide protection against malaria, 
discovered through an MMV partnership with BIOTEC Thailand, Monash University and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine—and has added other compounds known to be safe and 
effective to the joint program.
New collaboration with BARDA to improve health security
In 2018, we entered into a collaboration with BARDA on a 
crowdsourcing initiative to develop new respiratory protection 
devices to protect both healthcare workers and the public, 
including children, in the event of a health security threat. The 
crowdsourcing platform selected was our JLABS incubator 
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE, which we leverage to find scientists, 
companies and entrepreneurs with healthcare innovations that 
could bring our research to the next level. In this partnership, 
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE will be the first platform of its kind in a 
healthcare setting, and we expect the outcome to benefit BARDA’s 
mission to make available medical countermeasures to address 
health security threats.2018 Health for Humanity Report 38
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Overcoming Antimicrobial Resistance
Antimicrobials, including antibiotics, are one of the greatest 
discoveries in modern medicine and have been key to increasing 
life expectancy. The spread of drug-resistant pathogens, known as 
antimicrobial resistance (AMR), is a growing public health concern. 
Overuse of antibiotics, or not using them as prescribed, contributes 
to growth of resistant bacteria, which renders antibiotics less 
effective or ineffective. It is estimated that by 2050, AMR infections 
could cause 10 million deaths annually, more than those caused by 
cancer or diabetes today.18 
A comprehensive multi-partner approach is needed to address 
the complex challenges of AMR. As one of the original signatories 
of the Davos Declaration, in 2016, Johnson & Johnson joined the 
industry-wide call to curb development of AMR, also endorsing 
the Roadmap on Progress for Combating AMR in the same year. 
We have also been active members of the AMR Industry Alliance 
(AMRIA), one of the largest private sector coalitions addressing 
antimicrobial resistance. Through AMRIA, we have contributed to 
multiple position papers and presentations, and have participated 
in working groups.
We recognize that there is no one-size-fits-all approach to 
addressing AMR. We welcome and support legislative changes that 
will streamline regulatory pathways. Additionally, we believe new 
incentive mechanisms are needed to remove economic barriers 
to support investment in AMR, such as orphan or breakthrough 
designations and continued use of priority review vouchers.  We are working on multiple fronts to fulfill our AMR Roadmap 
commitments. We currently provide 22 antimicrobial medicines 
(including antiviral medicines) in 114 countries, of which seven are 
listed on the WHO's Model List of Essential Medicines. Much of our 
work is focused on tackling multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-
TB), given our long legacy of fighting TB. Moreover, MDR-TB alone 
accounts for approximately one-third of AMR-related deaths.
Five ways we are supporting global AMR efforts
1. Supporting work on ensuring antibiotics are being used only in 
patients who need them
• Our education efforts for healthcare professionals include 
topics such as appropriate use, diagnosis, pharmacovigilance, 
and adverse event reporting and monitoring of side effects. 
For example, through unrestricted educational grants, we 
have engaged the International Union against TB and Lung 
Disease since 2014 to impart medical education programs 
on MDR-TB in Peru and South Africa. We also supported 
USAID training on the implementation of a Pharmacovigilance 
Program for TB drugs for staff from national TB programs and 
health authorities in several countries. 
• To support the rollout and appropriate use of bedaquiline, 
Johnson & Johnson provides healthcare provider training and 
maintains pharmacovigilance and surveillance activities to 
monitor resistance to bedaquiline and companion treatments 
within the same regimen. To date, we have provided more 
than 82,500 courses of bedaquiline for patients in 114 
countries since first approval, including nearly 39,000 in 2018 
alone.
2. Improving access to existing and future antibiotics
• We use mechanisms such as tiered pricing, partnerships with 
public health organizations, and donation programs and other 
mechanisms as appropriate on a country-by-country basis 
to help achieve broad and timely access to our medicines in 
a way that is locally affordable. Examples of our initiatives 
are the program to broaden access to MDR-TB therapy with 
bedaquiline and our HIV medicines access program. Antimicrobial Resistance 
Statement 
Download
AMR Leadership 
Benchmark 
In 2018, the Antimicrobial Resistance 
Benchmark was published, providing 
the first independent assessment of 
how 30 of the largest pharmaceutical 
companies are responding to AMR. 
Johnson & Johnson was highlighted 
as one of the two pharmaceutical 
companies leading the AMR efforts 
with the highest number of activities, 
and specifically the contribution of 
our work on TB was noted. To read 
the AMR Benchmark, visit https://
accesstomedicinefoundation.org/amr-
benchmark.2018 Health for Humanity Report 39
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
• One of the major drivers of AMR-related infections in the 
United States and Europe is hospital-acquired infections.19 
Across Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices, we seek to 
prevent these infections through a variety of antimicrobial and 
sterilization technologies, including antibiotic-containing bone 
cements, chlorhexidine protective disks and more.
3. Monitoring AMR through surveillance as part of Johnson & 
Johnson R&D efforts
• Bedaquiline is a relatively new antimicrobial agent 
but, with widespread use, resistance may emerge. The 
bedaquiline Drug Resistance Emergence Assessment in 
MDR-TB (DREAM) is a global drug resistance surveillance 
study implemented by Johnson & Johnson to assess the 
emergence of resistance to bedaquiline. By mid-2018, 
thousands of bacteria recovered from TB patients from 10 
countries were tested; preliminary results indicate that the 
prevalence of resistance to bedaquiline has remained very 
low. 
4. Reducing the environmental impact from the production of 
antibiotics
• In 2018, we continued to assess the performance of our own 
manufacturing sites and those of key external manufacturers 
in controlling releases of antibiotics into the environment. We 
also worked with our industry partners and the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) to integrate a common framework 
for assessing antibiotic manufacturing operations into standard 
auditing protocols. In addition, we worked with our industry 
partners and independent technical experts to establish 
science-driven, risk-based targets for discharge concentrations 
for antibiotics.  
 For more details, see the AMR Alliance website.
5. Supporting new ways for open collaboration between industry 
and the public sector 
• We maintain several partnerships to advance AMR research, 
such as our initiative with the Institute of Microbial 
Technology in India to help accelerate the discovery of 
innovative new treatments for TB, and our agreement with 
the Indian Council for Medical Research to bolster clinical 
trial capacity in India to support faster development and 
approval of TB medicines for India. 2018 Health for Humanity Report 40
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Enhancing Access to Healthcare
J&J-1 (GRI 103)
Despite remarkable achievements in science and medicine, millions 
of people still lack access to healthcare services.20 As the world’s 
largest healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson is committed to 
improving access to our innovative medicines, vaccines, devices 
and diagnostics in all countries.
Many factors impede access to basic health services and risk 
optimum health outcomes for underserved populations. In addition 
to the affordability of medicines, weak health infrastructure, lack 
of skilled health workforce, inadequate financing options to cover 
medical needs, and insufficient regulatory capacity to run effective 
healthcare delivery systems all have varying impacts in different 
countries.
Our approach to improving access to healthcare is embodied in 
our business strategy and led with a dual focus: Janssen’s Global 
Commercial Strategy Organization leads access strategies across 
the developed world, and our Global Public Health team leads 
access strategies in resource-limited settings. Our approach 
includes:
• Improving affordability through various mechanisms, such 
as equity-based tiered pricing, value-based reimbursement 
schemes, licensing agreements and product donation programs;
• Continuous innovation for better health, aimed at reducing the 
burden of the world’s most intractable diseases;
• Strengthening public healthcare systems around the world 
through health workforce capacity building, medical education, 
and improving supply chain operations; and
• Contributing to community health through a range of initiatives 
that provide support for patients in different countries.
Johnson & Johnson is an original signatory of the BSR Guiding 
Principles on Access to Healthcare that underscore the importance 
of reducing the global burden of disease through collaboration, 
R&D, expanding availability of healthcare services, developing 
health systems resources, and respecting human rights.Improving Access and Affordability
To enhance and sustain broader access to our medicines and 
devices, we pursue a wide variety of approaches appropriate 
to the specific reimbursement systems and legal guidelines of 
different countries. Using tools such as equity-based tiered pricing 
and partnerships with public health organizations, we strive to 
engage stakeholders to help achieve broad and timely access to 
our medicines in a way that is affordable locally. We believe that 
equitable tiered pricing—which considers and reflects the economic 
conditions of the country, the purchasing power of the patients, the 
disease burden, and the specific product under consideration—can 
provide a fair and sustainable approach to improving access across 
different markets, particularly in emerging healthcare systems.
Improving access and affordability takes several forms, in addition 
to pricing decisions. We maintain an advanced approach to 
sharing intellectual property to lower the price of development 
and access to medicines in relevant markets. We also promote 
rapid product registration to ensure medicines can be available 4 A’s of Access
Availability - Industry, research institutes, 
supply channels.  
Affordability - Price level, state finance, 
personal income.  
Adoption - Healthcare infrastructure, 
performance & evidence-based policy.  
Approriate Use - Compliance/Drug resistance 
education & training.Availability
Affordability
AdoptionAppropriate 
UseAccess
“ Johnson & Johnson has been consistently a 
leader in the last four Access to Medicine Indices, 
bringing forward valuable treatments in areas 
such as TB and recently addressing mental health 
in low- and middle-income countries. Its Global 
Public Health Unit is a model among the industry on 
access planning and results for several therapeutic 
areas, constantly challenging itself to do more. As 
a company with a strong R&D pipeline and a global 
network capable of further addressing the needs of 
those in the most challenging countries, we encourage 
Johnson & Johnson to take even more action. ”
Jay Iyer, Executive Director, Access to Medicine Foundation2018 Health for Humanity Report 41
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Johnson & Johnson Ranks 
Among Top Companies 
Worldwide Expanding 
Access to Medicines 
For nearly a decade, Johnson & 
Johnson has ranked among the top 
three companies working to expand 
global access to medicines, according 
to the Access to Medicine Index (ATMI). 
The 2018 Index highlights Johnson 
& Johnson’s unique global public 
health business unit, commitment to 
R&D for diseases of the developing 
world, and leadership in health system 
strengthening. Johnson & Johnson 
was also highlighted as one of the two 
pharmaceutical companies leading the 
AMR efforts with the highest number of 
activities; specifically, the contribution 
of our work on TB was called out as a 
best practice.as soon as possible in different markets. In addition, we engage 
in partnerships, training and capacity building, and several other 
initiatives to help make our medicines promptly available for those 
who need them.
Key access initiatives
Three ongoing access initiatives reflected in our Health for 
Humanity 2020 Goals include:
• Expanding access to HIV/AIDS treatment, developing the first 
HIV vaccine, and improving HIV diagnostics; 
• Ensuring affordable and sustainable access to MDR-TB treatments; 
• Promoting treatments to address neglected tropical diseases. 
Enhancing access for ZYTIGA
Under Johnson & Johnson's Value, Access and Pricing policy, we 
have a commitment to ensuring timely access to our medicines in 
a way that is affordable locally. Understanding that for resource-
limited settings, public finances for healthcare spending are often 
significantly constrained, Janssen works with public payers, where 
appropriate, to optimize coverage of our products in relevant 
disease states, including oncology. For example: Janssen has sought 
to enable access for patients to ZYTIGA (abiraterone acetate) for 
metastatic prostate cancer in low affordability countries through a 
variety of pricing and access program offerings and mechanisms, 
including equity-based tiered pricing and patient access programs.
Supporting access in the U.S.
In the United States, we provide resources to patients, caregivers 
and healthcare providers through the Janssen CarePath program, 
which helps patients gain and maintain access to the Janssen 
medicines they are prescribed. In 2018, we helped approximately 
one million patients with access, affordability and treatment 
through the Janssen CarePath program, including approximately 
550,000 commercially insured patients who reduced their out-of-
pocket costs through the Janssen CarePath Savings Program. For 
more information, see the 2018 Janssen U.S. Transparency Report.Partnership for access
We are members of the Access Accelerated partnership, a first-
of-its-kind global initiative addressing the rising threat of several 
diseases in low- and middle-income countries. The partnership 
gathers a broad group of stakeholders, including the World Bank, 
the Union for International Cancer Control, and pharmaceutical 
companies with a shared vision of working toward the UN 
Sustainable Development Goal target to reduce premature deaths 
from non-communicable diseases by one third by 2030. The 
initiative will focus on access to primary healthcare, as well as 
financing, regulatory and service barriers.
Access-driven pricing strategies
We carefully consider three components when pricing our medicines:
1. Value to patients, the healthcare system and society. We 
consider how each medicine will improve patient health as 
well as the medicine’s potential to reduce other costs, such as 
surgeries, hospital stays or long-term care, and the improvement 
the medicine represents over the existing standard of care.
2. The importance of maintaining affordable access to 
medicines for people who need them. We consider not just the 
list price, but also the discounts and rebates we provide insurers, 
pharmacy benefit managers, governments, hospitals, physicians, 
and other providers of care to support broad access to our 
medicines.
3. The importance of preserving our ability to develop future 
groundbreaking cures and treatments. We have an obligation 
to ensure that the sale of our medicines provides us with the 
resources necessary to invest in future R&D to address serious, 
unmet medical needs.2018 Health for Humanity Report 42
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Transparency on pricing
Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson 
releases an annual U.S. Transparency Report reflecting our 
commitment to putting patients first, including how we invest 
our resources, price our medicines, and help people who need 
Janssen medicines get access to them. Read more in our section 
on Upholding Transparency.
Intellectual Property
We believe that flexible intellectual property management 
is a key element in an effective and sustainable access 
to medicines strategy, especially in low-income and 
low-to-middle-income countries. Intellectual property 
systems encourage innovation and allow us to invest in 
new technologies, fund R&D, and bring transformational 
medicines to the market. We work with international funders, 
local governments and non-governmental organizations 
to develop approaches that benefit patients in need, while 
continuing to uphold the value of intellectual property in all 
parts of the world. For more information, see our Intellectual 
Property Statement.
Johnson & Johnson is a member of the Patent Information 
Initiative for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED), a joint initiative 
that aims to “promote the accessibility of patent information 
for health agencies tasked with procurement of medicines.” 
The Pat-INFORMED database seeks to link public patent 
information to registered medicines in a global online portal 
that helps health professionals navigate the medicine-
procurement process for the benefit of patients.
Sharing molecular libraries to fight neglected diseases and 
pandemic threats
As part of the Johnson & Johnson global public health 
commitment, Janssen Pharmaceutica NV (Janssen) 
has established collaboration agreements with the goal 
of accelerating the discovery of new treatments for 
tuberculosis, malaria, neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) and 
other diseases prevalent in the developing world. Through WIPO Re:Search, the international research consortium led 
by the nonprofit BIO Ventures for Global Health and the 
United Nations World Intellectual Property Organization 
(WIPO), Janssen has opened segments of its molecule 
library—containing a set of 80,000 diverse, high-quality 
chemical compounds—to the global research community to 
enable collaborators to identify and advance promising drug 
candidates that might have activity against NTDs, and others 
such as malaria and TB. For more information on neglected 
tropical diseases, see this section.
Accelerating Product Registration
We are committed to the timely registration of our products 
to ensure early access and availability of our medicines as 
well as helping strengthen the regulatory science capabilities 
of local authorities to expedite product registrations, shaping 
the environment to accelerate registrations in countries 
with limited regulatory resources. We work with the WHO 
to prequalify certain medicines as an important step toward 
advancing global access. To further accelerate submissions, 
we maintain a program that assesses emerging markets’ 
regulatory and commercialization needs during key R&D 
milestones, and integrates these needs into our global 
strategies, tracking the speed of getting these products to 
patients by using an integrated dashboard.
The focus of our registration efforts in these countries 
continues to be prioritized by:
• high-burden disease prevalence;
• immediate patients in need;
• healthcare infrastructure;
• maturity of treatment programs;
• the existence of global/multilateral programs; and
• economic vulnerability. 
During the development of a compound, the need for specific 
access provisions for resource-limited countries is assessed from an unmet public health perspective and affordability, 
which is grounded in Janssen’s Value, Access and Pricing 
(VAP) framework. This process aims to understand the unmet 
medical need in a market, how the compound addresses the 
unmet need, relevant price comparisons, the cost burden of 
the disease, and the affordability of the medicine consistent 
with Gross National Income per capita. VAP is applied 
systematically for all Janssen R&D products.
Innovating with Patient Engagement
Patients have always been at the center of everything 
we do. With the role of the patient changing—from a 
recipient of care to a collaborative partner—we are on a 
mission to embed the patient voice throughout our product 
development cycles in our Pharmaceutical and Medical 
Devices businesses, beginning with disease area strategies 
through clinical trial designs, product formulation and 
product marketing. Our latest innovations are focused on 
empowering patients and addressing gaps in how healthcare 
is delivered. In some cases, we invite patients to co-create 
with us by helping to modify product design.
Using technology to improve patient engagement
The Integrated Smart Trial & Engagement Platform 
(iSTEP) is a first-of-its-kind tool that replaces paper-based 
processes with digital tools to manage medicine supply, drug 
accountability, patient medication intake and health data. 
iSTEP also enables personalized patient engagement during 
the clinical trial. Through a smartphone app, iSTEP provides 
reminders, dosing instructions and tutorial videos with a goal 
to educate patients and help them to adhere to the treatment 
regimen. Plans are to utilize iSTEP across multiple Phase 2 
and 3 trials in the 2019/2020 timeframe.
We also use eConsent, which uses modern technology 
and multimedia components to create an interactive 
and engaging informed consent experience for potential 
trial participants. Janssen pioneered the implementation 
of eConsent in multi-country/multi-language trials, has 
helped to enable broad cross-industry adoption, and is a 2018 Health for Humanity Report 43
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
key contributor to the TransCelerate BioPharma eConsent 
initiative. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory 
Agency recently issued a statement on the use of eConsent in 
the UK, and Belgium has approved electronic signatures.
We also use technology to help those managing mental 
illness, such as family members and other caregivers who 
play a critical role in the treatment process. Janssen is 
conducting a unique study to determine whether caregivers 
might fare better if provided with individualized training and 
interactive support. We participate in industry initiatives 
and, as part of a European collaboration, we demonstrated a 
groundbreaking virtual reality technology, called SchizoLab, to help 
people better understand what it is like to live with schizophrenia.
Improving the prevention of mother-to-child HIV 
transmission
Since 2016, Janssen has been partnering with Solidarity 
and Action Against The HIV Infection in India, a non-
governmental organization working to strengthen HIV 
prevention, care, support and treatment interventions in 
India. The collaborative program utilizes locally relevant 
approaches to educate pregnant women with know-how to 
prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission. Leveraging the 
unique CONNECT FOR LIFE approach, HIV-positive pregnant 
women are enrolled in the program and followed for 18 
months post-delivery across two states in India, addressing 
the disease burden in private and public healthcare facilities. 
In 2018, the program has been scaled to an additional four 
high-burden states, addressing the needs of both rural and 
urban HIV-positive women, and has also demonstrated statistically relevant results—improving retention in care 
for women supported through the program over 18 months 
post-delivery.
Promoting online health advocates
In 2018, the Janssen U.S. fourth annual HEALTHEVOICES 
conference brought together 120 advocates representing 
more than 35 different health communities for skill-building, 
networking and empowerment. HEALTHEVOICES continues 
to be the only event dedicated exclusively to strengthening 
an increasingly prominent group of influencers: online 
health advocates. HEALTHEVOICES provides resources and 
inspiration to empower these advocates to strengthen their 
patient and caregiver communities.
Improving patient adherence
To encourage the development of new approaches to 
improving patient adherence to treatment regimens, in 2018, 
we created a QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE on this topic through 
our JLABS innovation ecosystem. According to the Network 
for Excellence in Health Innovation (NEHI), poor medication 
adherence is estimated to cost more than $290 billion in 
avoidable U.S. medical spending annually. Empowering 
patients, caregivers, and providers through connected 
health technology innovation is recommended by NEHI to 
foster patient-specific adherence solutions. The winner of 
the Challenge, HealthBeacon Ltd., was awarded $75,000 
to help scale its smart system that tracks whether patients 
have taken their medications and helps them stay adherent 
to their prescription schedule. The system has been clinically 
reviewed, validated by the pharmaceutical industry, and 
integrated into patient care programs throughout Canada 
and Europe, with opportunities to expand further into North 
America and other regions.
Providing guidance on dealing with cancer
In 2018, Janssen Oncology debuted a novel way to help 
support patients with the launch of Cancer.com, a one-
stop digital destination designed to help guide patients 
More Resources
Learn more about HEALTHEVOICES 
5 
Johnson & Johnson products are included in the 
WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Productsand caregivers through many of the decisions they must 
make when faced with the disease. Guided by our mission 
to provide patients and caregivers with up-to-date cancer 
resources and information, Cancer.com helps patients 
find information they want about their disease and receive 
tailored content related to their own cancer diagnosis.
Advancing patient engagement industry-wide
For the past 15 years, EyeforPharma’s annual Patient Summit 
Europe has been a key event, bringing together patient 
advocates and industry representatives to discuss advancing 
patient engagement and advocacy across the health sector. 
In 2018, more than 300 delegates attended the summit 
in London, including two keynote speakers and several 
delegates from Johnson & Johnson.2018 Health for Humanity Report 44
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Johnson & Johnson has a 133-year legacy of impacting human 
health through scientific research and innovation. We pursue 
breakthroughs in science and technology in our own laboratories 
and through our powerful network of scientists and entrepreneurs 
all over the world. We combine a strong internal focus on R&D and 
strategic external partnerships with an emphasis on local solutions 
to meet different healthcare needs across the world.
Our innovation culture permeates Johnson & Johnson in a 
transformational ecosystem that builds on the ingenuity of our 
people and external networks. The practical ways we advance 
innovation include:
• We hire top scientists, medical and technology experts to 
advance the Johnson & Johnson product pipeline.
• We harness and scale breakthroughs in science and technology.
• Through our four global Innovation Centers, we identify 
the best external innovation to partner with startups, 
entrepreneurs, biotech and other innovators. 
• JLABS, the Johnson & Johnson network of open innovation 
health sciences incubators, gives life science startup companies 
access to all the tools they need to take their breakthrough 
ideas from concept to commercialization. 
• We maintain the longest-established corporate venture fund 
in the life sciences industry, and have been making strategic 
venture and equity investments in life science innovations for 
more than four decades.
Mission-Oriented R&D
Guided by Our Credo, R&D at Johnson & Johnson starts with 
the needs of those we serve: patients, consumers and healthcare 
providers. In each of our business segments, we prioritize the 
product pipeline based on the opportunity to address unmet 
medical needs and improve lives. We also consider the potential 
for commercial success, which allows us to reinvest on behalf of 
patients and consumers. We pursue the most compelling science, whether internal or external, and we are driven by our commitment 
to evolve, thrive and invest in an ever-changing ecosystem.
Pharmaceutical
We focus our pharmaceutical research and development on 
preventing and treating diseases in areas of medicine where we can 
make the most meaningful impact. Our R&D is currently focused 
on the following areas of medicine: Cardiovascular & Metabolism, 
Immunology, Infectious Diseases & Vaccines, Neuroscience, 
Oncology, and Pulmonary Hypertension.
We invest in modern data science to unlock disease insights 
and deliver better outcomes for patients. Janssen Research & 
Development is also investing significantly in new drug modalities 
such as engineered cells, engineered viruses and gene therapy to 
make a profound difference to patients—a difference that goes 
beyond what can be achieved using today’s traditional approach of 
small molecules and monoclonal antibodies. We focus on treating 
the disease as early in its course as possible and on creating 
regimens that head progressively toward cure. We have created 
a new approach within our pharmaceutical R&D where we are 
pursuing research in validated biological pathways that we believe 
are central to several diseases.
We also recognize that the best science does not always reside in a 
single company. It exists within us and all around us. Bringing new 
medicines to patients requires collaboration and partnership. A 
large part of our success stems from the work we do with dynamic, 
diverse partners, including startup companies, academic centers, 
hospitals and health systems, government agencies, biotechnology 
organizations, and other biopharmaceutical companies.
These collaborations allow us to use our resources more efficiently , 
and further enable the process of developing breakthrough 
medicines to create real value for patients, their families,  
and communities.  $10,775 M 
invested in R&D
16.4% 
of Johnson & Johnson employees 
involved in R&D activities21Innovating for Better Health
J&J-3 (GRI 103)2018 Health for Humanity Report 45
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Vision:
Positively impact 
human health through 
innovation. Research & Development:
As a broadly based global healthcare company with 
expertise in all stages of R&D, we work to provide 
a wide range of R&D support, from discovery and 
early development through clinical trial design and 
regulatory strategy.Company Incubation:
Providing hundreds of incubation options 
for our partners around the globe through 
our JLABS. 
Innovation Acceleration:
Innovation Centers focused on accessing innovation from all 
sources, from inception to early stages of development, with 
the potential to make a transformational impact on the health 
and lives of people around the globe. Strategic Investing:
Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JJDC is the 
strategic venture capital arm of Johnson & Johnson 
and a long-term investment partner to 
healthcare entrepreneurs. Innovation Design
Pharmaceutical Consumer Medical Devices2018 Health for Humanity Report 46
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Today, we have approximately 140 active collaborations and 
partnerships from discovery to late-stage development. Here are 
some examples:
• Through our commitment to partner with those whose 
innovative thinking will bring new and creative solutions to 
the field of medicine, Janssen is collaborating with Legend 
Biotech USA, Inc. to develop a chimeric antigen receptor 
T cell therapy (CAR-T), which harnesses the body’s own 
immune system to fight cancer. CAR-T therapy is a type of 
immunotherapy, which involves extracting a patient’s white 
blood cells, genetically modifying them in a laboratory, and 
re-administering the modified cells to the patient to permit 
the cells to attack the disease. The hope is that treatment 
will lead to longer remissions from disease for patients where 
conventional treatments are no longer providing benefit. 
Every year in the United States, more than 30,000 patients 
are diagnosed with multiple myeloma, and more than 12,000 
patients die from the disease.22 
• Janssen is collaborating with Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals, 
Inc.  to develop an early-stage ribonucleic acid interference 
(RNAi) candidate, along with utilization of a platform that 
blocks production of disease-causing proteins. This brings us 
closer to developing an effective therapy with the potential to 
increase rates of functional cure for people living with chronic 
hepatitis B viral infection. Hepatitis B is a life-threatening viral 
infection of the liver which, if it becomes chronic, can cause 
cirrhosis—scarring of liver tissue—and liver cancer. The World 
Health Organization cites hepatitis B as a global public health 
problem with 257 million people living with the disease and 
887,000 deaths in 2015.23  While a preventative vaccine is 
available, cure rates for those infected remain low, and most 
patients require lifelong therapy. RNAi therapy candidates 
have been shown to have an effect on hepatitis B viral 
infection replication pathways and on the production of viral 
proteins.24  Our work with this investigational treatment and 
other assets within our clinical development pipeline makes us 
optimistic that we can achieve higher rates of functional cure 
for patients worldwide.R&D resources are also used to improve existing, U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA)-approved products. This investment has 
enabled us to advance more than 100 medicine candidates.
Over the past five years (2014 – 2018), we have had a total of 
six new medicines approved by the FDA. Five of these six new 
medicines were granted priority review by the FDA. Priority review 
is an expedited review program reserved for products that treat 
a serious condition and would provide a significant improvement 
for patients in terms of safety or effectiveness. During this same 
time period, we received eight FDA Fast Track designations, which 
facilitate development and expedite review of drugs that treat 
serious conditions and fill unmet medical needs. We also received 
approvals for more than 30 expanded indications or new product 
formulations that enable new groups of patients to benefit from our 
medicines.
Since the FDA established the Breakthrough Therapy Designation 
in 2012, we have received nine FDA Breakthrough Therapy 
Designations for indications for five of our investigational medicines. 
A Breakthrough Therapy Designation is a process that expedites 
the development and review of an investigational medicine that is 
intended to address a serious condition when preliminary clinical 
evidence indicates that the medicine may demonstrate a substantial 
improvement over other available treatment.
Medical Devices
At the Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies, we are 
building a better health experience and enabling people everywhere 
to live life more fully. We combine our breadth and depth across 
surgical and orthopedic technologies, eye health, and interventional 
solutions with the scale and expertise of Johnson & Johnson to meet 
the changing needs of patients, health providers and our world. We 
are addressing healthcare’s most pressing challenges and creating 
solutions for a lifetime of overall health.
As one of the most comprehensive medical devices businesses in 
the world, we are working to design and disrupt every major stage 
of the healthcare experience. We focus on creating breakthrough 
More  
Resources
For additional examples of  
innovative solutions, see Better  
Health for All section2018 Health for Humanity Report 47
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
First JLABS in Europe 
The Belgium-based JLINX incubator, a 
collaboration launched in 2016 between 
Janssen and Bioqube Ventures, has now 
transitioned into a JLABS, making this 
the first JLABS in Europe. JLABS@BE  
will accommodate up to 30 life science 
startups focused on innovations 
across the entire healthcare spectrum, 
including biotech, pharmaceuticals, 
medical devices, consumer and 
healthtech sectors.
Top 100 Global Innovator 
For the sixth consecutive year, in 2018, 
Johnson & Johnson was named a 
Clarivate Analytics Top 100 Global 
Innovator. The Top 100 Global Innovator 
list spotlights the world’s most innovative 
organizations that prioritize investments 
in unique and enduring inventions.
More  
Resources
2018 JLABS I mpact Report  A snapshot of JLABS 
activity in 2018
Accelerating Growth
• JLABS has supported over 450 
companies over more than 6 years, 
44% increase in 2018 over 2017
• $11.6 billion in financing secured in 
2018 (23% more than in 2017)
• 12 companies now publicly traded
• 88% of JLABS companies are 
currently in business or acquired
Supporting Diverse Entrepreneurs
• 111 companies (26%), are led by 
women, (56% more than in 2017)
• 98 companies (23%) are minority-
led, (78% more than in 2017)
• 58% of companies are led by first-
time entrepreneurs, 42% are led by 
serial entrepreneurs
Creating the Innovation Ecosystem
• 170 JPALs, industry-leading experts 
and high-ranking business leaders 
from Johnson & Johnson’s global 
network, coached and mentored 
JLABS residents throughout the year
• 60+ Investor Hub members
• 45+ companies providing business 
services to JLABS portfolio 
companiesinnovations, advanced medical 
technologies and patient-centered 
solutions that enable smarter health, 
better value and improved outcomes. We 
aim to improve the health experience for 
patients, physicians, health systems and 
others along the spectrum of care.
Our legacy of pioneering medical device 
innovation continued in 2018 with the 
following:
• Johnson & Johnson Vision 
introduced ACUVUE OASYS with 
TRANSITIONS LIGHT INTELLIGENT 
TECHNOLOGY , a first-of-its-kind 
contact lens that provides wearers 
with vision correction and a dynamic 
photochromic filter that helps to 
continuously balance the amount of 
light entering the eye. These contact 
lenses seamlessly adjust from clear 
to dark in response to changing light 
conditions, reducing exposure to 
bright light indoors and outdoors, 
including filtering blue light and 
blocking UV rays.
• In the UK, the National Health Service 
(NHS) Innovation and Technology 
Payment program went live on April 1, 
2018, with four healthcare innovations 
that will be fast-tracked into use. 
One of these is our ETHICON Plus 
Sutures, recognized for reducing the 
risk of hospital infections such as the 
methicillin-resistant staphylococcus 
aureus (MRSA) “super bug.” 
More than a quarter of hospital-
acquired infections are surgical site 
infections,25 most of which can be 
prevented; Plus Sutures, coated with a layer of triclosan, play a significant 
role in reducing the risk of infections 
and helping patients recover.
• Our new SURGICEL Powder 
Absorbable Hemostat, was selected 
as the Gold Winner in the Drug-
Delivery Devices and Combination 
Products category of the 20th Annual 
Medical Design Excellence Awards 
competition. SURGICEL Powder 
advances blood clotting and rapidly 
stops continuous, broad-surface 
oozing of blood in many surgical 
situations. 
Consumer
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. 
believes in caring for people around the 
world by anticipating their needs and 
creating solutions and experiences that 
help them and those they care for live 
healthy, vibrant lives. Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer, known for its iconic brands, is 
one of the largest and most scientifically 
driven consumer businesses in the world. 
Most of our products are endorsed 
as #1 in their category by healthcare 
professionals.
Our R&D capabilities are focused on 
providing scientifically and clinically 
proven solutions for consumer needs. Our 
R&D is strategically organized around 
consumer needs, in Consumer Healthcare 
(Pain, Cough/Cold, Allergy, Digestive 
Health, Smoking Cessation, Oral Care, 
Wound Care, Feminine Care) and in 
Skin Care (Baby, Face, Sun, Body, Hair). 2018 Health for Humanity Report 48
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
We deliver products and solutions grounded in deep consumer 
insights and backed by strong research. We seek important new 
technologies and solutions that can be accelerated to consumers 
through co-creation with external innovators and our internal R&D 
teams.
Inspired by research from consumer studies, LISTERINE introduced 
the most significant oral care innovation in decades: LISTERINE 
GO! TABS, solid Clean Mint tablets that transform into a swishable, 
alcohol-free liquid when chewed to deliver fresh breath for up to 
four hours. Made from food-grade ingredients, the product (sold 
under the name READY! TABS in the United States) was formulated 
to neutralize odor molecules—even in areas a toothbrush can’t 
reach, like the back of the tongue—and be safely swallowed. 
LISTERINE GO! TABS are helping consumers re-think their 
everyday oral care routine with a revolutionary new form that 
works with today’s on-the-go lifestyle.
Our Innovation Ecosystem
Our commitment to the global community of innovators and 
creating a fertile ecosystem is broad and deep through multiple 
Johnson & Johnson Innovation nodes. These include business 
development, venture investment, incubation, and the R&D 
resources from across our Company working in tandem to advance 
science and technology at all stages of innovation. Today, there “ As alumni, JLABS offered to continue to mentor 
us. Through the JPALS program, we connected 
with Johnson & Johnson’s global regulatory experts 
whose deep knowledge and experience is invaluable 
to us. ”
Wendye Robbins, President & CEO, Blade Therapeuticsare 500+ active opportunities and collaborations ranging from 
licensing and acquisition deals with big and small companies 
to academic consortia, individual academic relationships and 
government collaborations.
Our innovation incubator
JLABS, our open-innovation ecosystem for healthcare 
entrepreneurs, has become a significant force in health innovation, 
supporting hundreds of entrepreneurs around the globe working 
to turn breakthrough science into transformative solutions in 
biotech, pharmaceutical, medical devices, consumer and digital 
health programs. JLABS’ no-strings-attached model has helped 
entrepreneurs without taking any equity or intellectual property, 
encouraging collaboration while providing access to the world’s 
leading experts, executives and businesspeople to help companies 
grow. Also, JLABS maintains Investor Hubs, a network of global 
investors, at each of its sites to mentor and potentially invest in 
JLABS portfolio companies.
New partnering office in Australia
In 2018, we launched the Johnson & Johnson Innovation Partnering 
Office in collaboration with the Victorian State Government and 
Monash University. The new facility will accelerate healthcare 
innovation and commercialization in Victoria and beyond.  
JJIPO@Monash will focus on nurturing the next generation of 
innovators by delivering training, mentoring and networking 
programs to connect innovators in Victoria with the global  
Johnson & Johnson innovation network.
3D printing research laboratory
In 2018, we announced our plan to establish our first 3D bioprinting 
research laboratory at Trinity College Dublin in collaboration 
with Advanced Materials and Bioengineering Research. This 
collaboration will focus on advancing personalized, bioprinted 
healthcare solutions for patients and consumers while furthering Digital for improved 
medical adherence
The Johnson & Johnson CARE4TODAY 
Connect, a medication management 
mobile app that currently delivers 
digital interventions, Behavior Change 
Techniques, including planning, 
prompt-cues, self-monitoring, and 
feedback and monitoring to help 
patients manage their treatments 
and get the support they need. In 
the EU, by applying the methodology 
developed by the Sustainable 
Healthcare Coalition and the NHS 
Sustainable Development Unit to Total 
Knee Replacement surgery integrated 
with the CARE4TODAY digital app, 
we demonstrated not only a reduction 
in patient’s length of stay, but also 
minimized waste, energy consumption, 
and carbon emissions associated with 
the patient care pathway.2018 Health for Humanity Report 49
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
our vision to positively impact human health through innovation. 
This collaboration focuses on developing 3D-printed biological 
implants to treat people affected by degenerative diseases such 
as osteoarthritis, a disease of the joints caused by the breakdown 
of cartilage and bone tissue. Osteoarthritis affects an estimated 
500,000 people in the Republic of Ireland, with about 10,000 hip 
and knee replacements undertaken annually.
Digital Health Innovations
At Johnson & Johnson, we always remain true to our roots as an 
innovative startup established in 1886. Through the decades, 
we have contributed to the evolution of science and technology, 
from pioneering the development of sterile surgery at the turn of 
the 20th century to current research on a differentiated robotic-
assisted surgery platform in orthopedics, and to developing the 
first HIV vaccine. We are confident that in today’s rapidly changing 
healthcare landscape, Johnson & Johnson is uniquely positioned 
to lead the next frontier in medical innovation, powered by science 
and technology. Importantly, we leverage technology and smart 
solutions to empower the health workforce on the front lines of 
care.
With more than $2 billion annual investment in technology, we are 
investing for the future to shape the way healthcare is delivered, 
managed and experienced.
Tech for better health outcomes
Johnson & Johnson entered into a research study in collaboration 
with Apple Inc. to investigate whether a new heart health program 
using an app from Johnson & Johnson in combination with Apple 
Watch’s irregular rhythm notifications and ECG app can accelerate 
the diagnosis and improve health outcomes of the 33 million people 
worldwide living with atrial fibrillation (AFib), a condition that can 
lead to stroke and other potentially devastating complications. 
In the United States alone, AFib is responsible for approximately 
130,000 deaths and 750,000 hospitalizations every year. Planning 
for the study began in 2018, and was publicly announced in 
January; the study will launch later this year.Surgery 4.0
With our wide reach and presence around the world,  
Johnson & Johnson has a significant opportunity and responsibility 
to deliver on the promise of Digital Surgery and profoundly 
change healthcare for generations to come. We are building a 
comprehensive digital ecosystem that uses advanced technologies 
across all types of surgical procedures before, during and after 
surgery, leveraging connected intelligence to deliver enhanced 
experiences and outcomes for patients, surgeons, and healthcare 
systems. The technologies from Verb Surgical, our strategic 
partnership with Google parent Alphabet Inc.’s Verily Life 
Sciences and our acquisition of Orthotaxy’s robotic technology 
for orthopaedics, together with our market-leading surgical 
instruments, medical implants and solutions, create the foundation 
of this comprehensive digital ecosystem.
Innovations in digital health at the frontline of healthcare
With Johnson & Johnson Foundation grants, we support the 
development of health technology that connects people at the 
front lines of care to information, to each other, and to health 
systems. Our partners such as Living Goods and Medic Mobile, 
have digitally empowered nurses, midwives and community health 
workers in eight countries with tools for clinical guidance and tech 
platforms to serve thousands of patients.
MomConnect, a flagship program of the South African National 
Department of Health, has registered mothers to receive vital 
health information via mobile messaging, including via WhatsApp. 
NurseConnect, a companion program to MomConnect, is helping 
build peer support and learning communities among nurses and 
midwives. In 2018, NurseConnect allowed the South African 
National Department of Health to instantly alert midwives/nurses 
about the source of the world’s largest listeriosis outbreak.2018 Health for Humanity Report 50
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
CONNECT FOR LIFE  is a patient-centric, mobile health  
platform funded by Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of 
Johnson & Johnson that engages in partnerships with leading 
health advocates to improve the understanding of, and attitudes 
toward, diseases such as HIV, TB and other infectious diseases. The 
program aims to address major challenges in disease management 
by using interactive voice response to manage: medication-
adherence, clinic-attendance, prevention of new infections, 
provision of health tips and retention to achieve lasting positive 
impact against some of the greatest public health challenges. 
In 2018, CONNECT FOR LIFE improved anti-retroviral therapy 
adherence and promoted HIV viral load suppression in people 
living with HIV in India, Uganda and the Philippines, and has been 
deployed in Rwanda to support and manage mental health patients 
from relapsing.
Democratizing dermatology
Leveraging our expertise in skin imaging science, we are helping 
people understand their skin at a deeper level. In 2018, we 
launched the NEUTROGENA SKIN 360 app to help democratize 
dermatology. The smartphone-enabled tool measures the skin’s 
health above and below the surface, using technology once only 
available to dermatologists to record metrics including pore size, 
fine lines, and moisture levels. The NEUTROGENA SKIN 360 app 
then uses proprietary algorithms (based on decades of industry-
leading research) and machine learning to recommend the right 
products from our portfolio for each user and help track results 
over time.2018 Health for Humanity Report 51
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Strong, well-functioning health systems are imperative for 
advancing human health. Around the world, we leverage our 
global expertise in health and on-the-ground presence in many 
regions to advocate for tailored solutions that help strengthen 
local health systems. We advocate for universal access to care; 
pilot sustainable financing solutions together with strategic 
partners so that people can cover their health needs; and educate 
and empower professionals on the front lines, such as nurses, 
midwives, community health workers and caregivers. Working 
with many stakeholders, including community leaders, healthcare 
companies, non-governmental organizations, payers, providers 
and policy makers, we make an impact by filling gaps in care, 
promoting value-based care and aiming to keep people well at 
every age and every stage of life.
Universal Health Coverage
We believe that good health is at the heart of human development; 
every individual should have access to quality, affordable and 
reliable essential healthcare services; no one should have to forgo 
treatment or be forced into poverty because of the cost of care.
This philosophy underlies our support for global Universal Health 
Coverage (UHC). Championed by the World Health Organization 
(WHO), efforts to achieve UHC are a global priority, also reflected in 
the UN Sustainable Development Goal 3: healthy lives and wellbeing 
for all at all ages. At Johnson & Johnson, we are firmly committed to 
doing our part to ensure that the promise of UHC becomes a reality. 
Around the world, we have hundreds of health-related programs, 
and we strive to align these with government priorities and advocate 
for quality healthcare, especially for women and children. We believe 
that tailored strategies that align local needs, resources and market 
conditions must be part of the solution.
Building stronger universal healthcare systems26
In 2018, we engaged intensively with the WHO on the topic of UHC 
and the ways in which we could support collaborative initiatives, 
and we formally joined the UHC2030 Private Sector Constituency, a multi-stakeholder platform to promote collaborative working in 
countries and globally on health systems strengthening, supported 
by the WHO and the World Bank, among others. We hope that this 
initiative will enable us, together with many partners, to forge a 
clear path to universal healthcare around the world.
Advancing the healthcare system in China
One important pillar in “Healthy China 2030,” set forth by China’s 
central government, is to improve the country’s current universal 
health coverage system and increase healthcare quality. In 2018, 
Johnson & Johnson partnered with the China Development and 
Research Foundation, a public organization with the mission to 
promote economic development and social progress, on a project 
to improve China’s multi-level medical insurance system. The 
goal is to identify opportunities to improve the basic medical 
insurance system through a stronger connection to supplementary 
commercial health insurance for patients seeking better access. 
The project concluded in March 2019, and recommendations will 
be submitted to the State Council for consideration.
Universal Health  
Coverage Statement 
Download
        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress 
700+
engagements conducted with 
government officials and other 
partners in Brazil, Philippines, Russia, 
Rwanda, and Mexico. 
Existing pilot projects in Brazil, China, 
Mexico, Philippines and Russia are 
ongoing. New pilots launched in 
Colombia, Indonesia, Philippines  
and Rwanda.
 View Scorecard
“The Right Start” -  
JOHNSON'S Baby in 
partnership with Save  
the Children
Strengthening Health Systems2018 Health for Humanity Report 52
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
The Right Start for babies
Some 230 million babies around the world do not have birth 
certificates, resulting in a lack of basic human rights, needs, and 
protection.27 This lack of identity can also lead to displacement, 
statelessness, and the inability to prove that a child is a minor in 
the eyes of the law. In 2018, The Right Start Initiative was launched 
in Ethiopia and Lebanon, where governments are actively trying to 
register as many affected babies as possible. Alongside international 
humanitarian organization Save the Children, JOHNSON’S Baby is 
determined to give these babies the right start by making invisible 
children visible, and changing the course of their lives. The three-
year program focuses on building capacity among staff in key 
governmental institutions through a selection of trainings and 
workshops, while driving birth registrations in both countries.
Supporting the Front Lines of Healthcare
At Johnson & Johnson, we invest in education and training for 
the global health workforce—the people on the front lines of 
healthcare, such as nurses, midwives, community health workers, 
caregivers and others who deliver treatments and support to our 
communities every day. These everyday heroes provide everything 
from health education to preventive wellness solutions and clinical 
interventions. Their skills, knowledge and passion are instrumental 
to improving health outcomes for the world’s most vulnerable 
people and their families.Partnered with 230 organizations to 
advance the training, skills-building 
and leadership development of 104,479 
health workers, including:
6,327  
midwives
32,804  
community workers
37 ,352  
nurses
in 67 
countriesOne of the newer ways in which we are investing in health 
entrepreneurs with a social impact mission is through our impact 
investment initiative. We are focused on a limited number of 
investment opportunities over a five- to seven-year horizon. To 
date, we have made a number of investments that aim to reach 
vulnerable populations in Kenya, Southeast Asia and the UK.
We maintain a range of partnerships, in most cases funded by 
grants through our Johnson & Johnson Foundation and Johnson & 
Johnson Corporate Citizenship Trust, that take a life-span approach 
to health workforce strengthening, engaging young people in 
science and an interest in health careers, providing scholarships for 
nursing or midwifery education, and advancing the next generation 
with leadership and management training.
Some of our partnerships include:
• The Medical and Surgical Skills Institute, based in Ghana, where 
more than 21,000 healthcare professionals have received critical 
skills training over the past three years. Learn more here.
• The AO Alliance Foundation in low- and middle-income 
countries in Africa to develop skills and motivation among 
national and regional healthcare workers, that can maximize 
the opportunities afforded by available resources for care of the 
injured and in need of surgery.
Alliances to advance education for community health workers
In 2018, we announced a new partnership with the Health for All 
Alliance to ensure that community healthcare workers around 
the world can access the skills and digital tools they need to help 
save and improve lives. We will support these training efforts with 
funding and other resources.“ At JOHNSON’S Baby we care about the 
development of babies and are determined to help 
them thrive. Through the Right Start initiative, we 
aim to raise awareness and ensure more babies 
receive the care and protection they deserve.”
               Makis Kosmatos, Area Managing Director, Africa,  
               Middle East and Turkey, Johnson & Johnson  
               Consumer Inc.        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress
Together with partners, trained
58,665  
birth attendants, who assisted in 
3,046,240 births.
 View Scorecard
Johnson & Johnson 
Announces the Health  
for All Alliance
2018 Health for Humanity Report 53
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
We supported the Strategic Innovation for Community Health 
(STICH) pilot program in Nairobi, Kenya, in partnership with 
INSEAD, to help further develop leadership and innovation among 
community and primary-care workers across Sub-Saharan Africa.
STICH Cohort 2018 
Partnering for maternal and newborn health
Born on Time is our partnership with the Government of Canada in 
Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Mali to prevent preterm birth by targeting 
risk factors related to lifestyle, infection, contraception, and nutrition. 
By 2020, Born On Time aims to reach more than 1.8 million women 
and adolescent girls, and train more than 8,000 healthcare providers, 
including 1,825 community health workers in Bangladesh, Ethiopia and 
Mali. Based on year two reporting of Johnson & Johnson support of 
this training, the program is poised to far exceed its initial five-year goals. 
Save the Children programs, through Johnson & Johnson 
support in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, the Philippines and the UK, 
train healthcare providers to support maternal, newborn, and 
child health. The Helping Babies Breathe initiative, in partnership 
with Save the Children, has aided the training of skilled birth 
attendants in neonatal resuscitation in 11 countries to date, with 
the latest expansion of the program to Guatemala in 2018.
We also partnered with United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) 
to end maternal deaths in humanitarian and fragile settings, and 
helped provide midwives in Haiti and Liberia with Emergency 
Obstetrics and Newborn Care (EmONC) training, reaching 
women and girls with health services.Strengthening professional midwifery training programs
Considering that maternal deaths are still occurring in medical 
centers, many of which are oversaturated and lack resources, 
Johnson & Johnson partners with UNFPA in Mexico to focus on the 
quality of care afforded to patients by strengthening training for 
professional midwifery.  
To that end, UNFPA is working to increase the participation of 
professional midwives in maternal health services to help reduce 
maternal deaths by addressing births that present no complications 
at the primary care level, with added support from a trusted and 
accessible referral system. Currently in its second phase, the project 
involves working with 11 professional midwifery schools across the 
country by training healthcare providers, improving infrastructure 
and providing technical support. 
        IN PROGRESS  
2020 SDG Commitment Progress
5-year Target: 60 million women 
and children will have received  
support and tools to enable a 
healthy future.
2016-2018 Progress: 33.6 million 
women and children (56% of overall 
goal achieved).
 View Scorecard
2018 Health for Humanity Report 54
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Expanding quality emergency obstetrics and newborn  
care in Nigeria
The Johnson & Johnson partnership with the Wellbeing Foundation 
Africa and the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine was expanded 
in 2018 throughout Kwara State in Nigeria. The partnership, which 
was already active in several regions of Kwara State, focuses on 
quality of EmONC service so that more mothers survive childbirth 
and more newborns are born healthy.
Empowering nurses around the world
At Johnson & Johnson, we believe that nurses are changing the 
trajectory of health and are our critical partners on the front lines 
of care. Our many programs across the Enterprise help support 
and elevate the visibility and impact of nursing in healthcare by 
championing nurse-led innovation, supporting skill development, 
developing leaders and strengthening nurse resiliency.
In 2018, Johnson & Johnson Nursing evolved its nursing advocacy 
strategy from a 15-year emphasis on nursing recruitment in the 
United States to a new focus on championing nurse-led innovation in healthcare. We introduced new television and digital advertising, 
celebrating nursing innovation throughout history that has changed 
human health, as well as a new website, nursing.jnj.com, for current 
and prospective nurses. The inaugural Johnson & Johnson Nurses 
Innovate QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE then invited nurses in the 
United States to submit ideas for new devices, health technologies, 
protocols or treatment approaches with the power to profoundly 
impact patient care, for the opportunity to receive up to $100,000 
in grants and mentoring and coaching from Johnson & Johnson, via 
JLABS, our open-innovation ecosystem of healthcare entrepreneurs, 
to move their ideas forward. Learn more about our commitment to 
nursing at nursing.jnj.com.
Supporting nursing skills, leadership development and resiliency
As part of our ongoing commitment to advancing health and 
wellbeing and caring for the most vulnerable communities,  
Johnson & Johnson has engaged in the following programs and 
partnerships:
• Supported the Duke-Johnson & Johnson Nurse Leadership 
Program, currently in its fifth cycle, providing advanced 
practice nurses working in community practice settings with 
skills to effectively and efficiently deliver primary care services 
to vulnerable populations.
• Partnered with Sigma since 2002 on the Maternal-Child Health 
Nurse Leadership Academy to develop the leadership skills of 
maternal and child health nurses and nurse midwives as they 
strive to improve the quality of healthcare for underserved 
women and children.
• Supported, since 2001, nurses graduating from the Aga Khan 
University's School of Nursing and Midwifery who have been 
deployed across health facilities in the East Africa region. Learn 
more about this program here.
• Supported development of the Care for the Caregiver 
educational self-help tool kit in partnership with the Texas 
Nurses Association and Texas Organization of Nurse Executives 
in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, to address moral distress 
and promote moral resilience, for nurses working in disaster 
recovery situations.Supporting surgical needs
We marked a 25-year partnership 
milestone with Mercy Ships, supporting 
its mission of providing hope, healing 
and resilience by providing hygiene kits 
and surgical products, like ETHICON 
sutures, as well as through our 
partnership on the Essential Surgical 
Skills Course that focuses on healthcare 
system strengthening.Enhancing skills in India
In India, Johnson & Johnson Medical 
India launched a specialized bus to 
travel across the country and provide 
hands-on surgery training to healthcare 
professionals in the next five years. 
Named "Johnson & Johnson Institute on 
Wheels," this mobile training center will 
enhance the surgical skills of doctors, 
nurses, and paramedical staff to address 
the demands of today's healthcare 
delivery system and provide better 
outcomes to patients of India.“ Partnerships like ours are so important because 
of the huge improvements that can readily be 
made. 80% of all maternal deaths result from five 
complications which can be treated by qualified and 
trained health professionals: hemorrhage, sepsis, 
eclampsia, complications of abortion and obstructed 
labor. Our training is successful because it equips 
doctors, nurses and midwives, as a collective team, 
with the skills needed to overcome these obstetric 
emergencies. ”
Her Excellency Mrs Toyin Ojora Saraki, Founder-President of the 
Wellbeing Foundation Africa2018 Health for Humanity Report 55
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Shifting to Value-Based Care
At Johnson & Johnson, we believe a value-based healthcare system 
has tremendous potential to improve the health of populations, 
increase access to care, and limit costs. The transition to a 
value-based healthcare system will require many stakeholders— 
healthcare companies, payers, providers and policy makers—to 
work together and create an ecosystem of care. Working with our 
partners, we have implemented a range of innovative value-based 
initiatives, from agreements based on achieving specific clinical 
endpoints, to ones linked to offsetting other healthcare expenditures.
Value-based care saves money
Our global CareAdvantage initiative in the Medical Devices 
segment was launched in 2017 as a tool to help healthcare 
providers navigate value-based care (VBC), adjusted to meet the 
different needs of regional care systems. Data-driven, holistic and 
grounded in Johnson & Johnson’s deep expertise and insights, 
CareAdvantage helps providers and health systems in several 
countries implement value-based action plans while optimizing 
patient care.
Advancing VBC in Singapore
In 2018, we hosted the second annual Value-Based Care Forum in 
Singapore. Together with more than 120 local healthcare leaders 
from the Ministry of Health and the full spectrum of public and 
private healthcare representatives and experts, we explored VBC 
and outcomes from different perspectives, using examples of 
successful implementation as a source of insight. A highlight of the 
event was the keynote from Dr. Kevin J. Bozic, a recognized leader 
in orthopedic surgery and value-based healthcare payment and 
delivery models in the United States. Key local clinicians shared on 
partnership projects with Johnson & Johnson relating to wearables, innovative products and cancer treatment at home which improved 
healthcare outcomes for patients and the society. The initiative is 
aligned with the Ministry of Health’s focus to deliver value-based 
healthcare to provide sustainable quality healthcare services amid 
rising costs for the people of Singapore.
 
 
        ON TRACK  
2020 SDG Commitment Progress
5-year Target: 50 million people will 
have had access to safe, essential, 
and timely surgical care.
2016-2018 Progress: 37.6 million 
beneficiaries (75% of overall goal 
achieved).
 View Scorecard
2018 Health for Humanity Report 56
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Contributing to Community Health
GRI 203 (103), 203-1, 203-2
Our Credo defines the concept that “We are responsible to 
the communities in which we live and work and to the world 
community as well.” At Johnson & Johnson, we fulfill this 
obligation by actively engaging in our communities across the 
globe. We support the people at the front lines of delivering care, 
so that communities can more effectively address the health 
needs of the world’s most vulnerable people. Our giving, products, 
innovation, and business initiatives help create a better world and 
environment for people around the globe.
Our programs and solutions are developed through global 
leadership and regional and country-level colleagues to meet 
community needs while aligning with enterprise-wide priorities 
where Johnson & Johnson has unique knowledge and skills to 
make a difference.
We mobilize partners for the benefit of our communities through 
partnership, financial support, activation of our large employee 
base and advocacy for priority health issues. We work with our 
community partners in a collaborative spirit, based on mutual trust 
and aligned values.
Our employees are actively involved in volunteering in our 
community initiatives, as well as through other community 
engagement programs.
For more about employee volunteering, see Our People section.        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress
In partnership with Lions Club 
International, supported delivery of 
7.9M
eye care screenings and 73,018 
corrective treatments (spectacles) to 
underserved children.
 View Scorecard
        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress
STAYFREE activated the partnership 
with UNICEF to improve menstrual 
health and hygiene management 
among adolescent girls in three 
additional states in India. In prior 
years we activated partnerships with 
JOHNSON'S and LISTERINE.
 View Scorecard
2018 Health for Humanity Report 57
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Global Signature Partnerships and Platforms
We maintain several global partnerships and platforms that 
advance healthcare and improve people’s lives.
In 2018, we engaged with our partners through strategic 
investments, and through our own platforms, around specific needs 
and events.
Examples of Our Global Signature Partnerships:28
UNICEF
For nearly 30 years, Johnson & Johnson and UNICEF have worked 
together to empower healthcare providers in 20 countries. On 
World Children’s Day, Johnson & Johnson strengthened this 
long-standing partnership by announcing a $10 million expanded 
global partnership with UNICEF to support the crucial work of 
frontline health workers in delivering care to newborns, children 
and mothers around the world including among indigenous 
Nicole Mark, Senior Financial Analyst, 
Global Regulatory Affairs on an Operation 
Smile mission in 2018 to Madagascar.communities in Vietnam and the Philippines.
Save the Children29
Our partnership of more than two decades with Save the Children 
demonstrates the shared priority we place on addressing the 
needs of the most vulnerable children. Our programs include: 
newborn survival, psychosocial support of Syrian refugee children, 
immediate response to humanitarian crises, employee engagement, 
and joint advocacy. In 2018, we renewed our global partnership to 
improve the survival and healthy development of children under 
age five, especially newborns. We also launched a new digital tool 
designed to turn the fun things kids say into charitable donations 
called Wisdom by Kids. Through 2019, the platform will focus on 
benefiting Save the Children during its 2019 centennial year.
Examples of our Global Signature Activation Platforms:
Operation Smile
For more than 30 years, Johnson & Johnson has helped Operation 
Smile with financial and product contributions to provide smiles to 
children around the world born with cleft lips and palates. In May 
2018, we again held our annual Smile Week, supporting fundraising 
through a range of initiatives around the world. To transform lives 
with Operation Smile, our Johnson & Johnson employees work as “ We are incredibly proud of the work we've 
done with UNICEF helping to ensure that children 
everywhere have a healthy future. This renewed 
commitment will strengthen our efforts to support 
and advocate for women and children, as well as the 
frontline health workers who care for them. ”
               Lauren Moore, Vice President, 
               Global Community Impact, Johnson & Johnson
By supporting the education of indigenous midwives, 
Johnson & Johnson is helping save maternal and newborn 
lives among remote mountainous ethnic communities in 
Vietnam—this effort is part of a $10 million expanded global 
partnership with UNICEF announced in 2018, one of the 
Company's largest commitments to date.  
Photo credit: Paul Bettings2018 Health for Humanity Report 58
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
volunteers on medical missions and experience firsthand what our 
support means to these children.
Global Citizen
Since 2016, Johnson & Johnson partnered with social action 
platform Global Citizen to address public health challenges. In 
2018, we had a strong presence at the Global Citizen Festival in 
Johannesburg, South Africa, on World AIDS Day. See Making HIV 
History for more details on this event.
CARINGCROWD
At Johnson & Johnson, we are uniquely positioned to apply 
our capabilities to help enable large-scale change for good. 
One way we are doing that is through the creation of our 
free CARINGCROWD crowdfunding platform for nonprofit 
organizations that is entirely dedicated to improving global 
public health. Anyone in the world can make a pledge on 
CARINGCROWD, and Johnson & Johnson provides substantial 
More  
Resources
Overview of key programs  
and initiatives
An interactive map of our initiatives 
around the globe
CARINGCROWD
Since its launch, CARINGCROWD has generated:
$1,250,637 pledged by individuals
$709,987 matched by  
Johnson & Johnson
246 successful campaigns for health projects in 38 
countries
102 nonprofit beneficiaries
opportunities for pledges to be matched. Projects on 
CARINGCROWD tackle a wide range of health topics, including 
clean water, infectious diseases, maternal health, mental health, 
medical equipment and health worker training.
Donate a Photo
Donate a Photo is the way Johnson & Johnson connects people 
to nonprofits, increasing awareness and resources for deserving 
causes including women’s and children’s health, healthy families, 
health workforce, environmental health, global disease challenges, 
essential surgery, education and equality and emergency relief. 
Available in Canada, Japan, the UK and the United States, for every 
photo shared through the Donate a Photo app, Johnson & Johnson 
donates US$1 to a social cause.2018 Health for Humanity Report 59
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Giving
At Johnson & Johnson, inspired by Our Credo, we use our scale 
and resources for good, contributing to many causes and initiatives 
around the world to help advance health and improve people’s 
lives—both on a global level and at local levels—through targeted 
initiatives providing local support, engaging employees in our 
communities, supporting them in the case of emergencies, and 
donating products for a range of needs.
Our community giving and social impact programs are funded and 
supported through a variety of entities:30
• Our Global Community Impact partnerships and other strategic 
charitable initiatives via the Johnson & Johnson Foundation; 
• The Johnson & Johnson Patient Assistance Foundation;
• The Johnson & Johnson Corporate Citizenship Trust; 
• Various corporate functional divisions and operating companies 
across our three business segments around the world;
• Employee volunteering and (often matched) fundraising for 
local causes;
• Product donations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Community disaster preparedness and relief
Johnson & Johnson strives to be a trusted community partner, 
including in times of crisis. In the immediate aftermath of any major 
disaster, we work with international relief partners and local affiliates Statement on Charitable 
Contributions
Download
to assess and rapidly respond—in many cases within hours—to 
critical health needs with an array of consumer, pharmaceutical 
and medical products. Through partners such as Heart to Heart 
International, MAP International and Americares, we deliver 
emergency medicine and relief supplies to families affected by these 
events. In 2018, we leveraged the Johnson & Johnson network and 
passion of employees in times of crisis to provide immediate aid to 
communities affected by natural disasters working with six partners. 
More than $11 million in cash and products were donated to support 
the disaster response efforts in countries including Bangladesh, 
India, Indonesia, Kenya, Liberia, Peru, Turkey, South Somalia, the 
United States and Yemen.
We support our employees who volunteer to assist when disaster 
strikes. In 2018, we created a new First Responder Time-Off Policy, 
allowing employees who serve as Emergency Volunteer Workers 
to take up to 40 hours a year of paid time off if an emergency 
summons requires the employee to be late or absent from work. 
Employees are also able to leave work to respond to the summons 
as needed. The policy currently applies to employees in the United 
States and Puerto Rico.
Disaster response
In 2018, we allocated $0.86 million in cash and $10.43 million worth 
of Johnson & Johnson products in support for immediate, mid- and 
long-term response to natural disasters, including Syria refugee 
crisis, hurricanes Harvey, Maria, Michael and Florence, earthquake 
and tsunami in Indonesia, among others.
Product donations
Globally, we aim to support patients and our partners in every way 
we can, and that includes non-cash contributions. As one of the 
first companies to sign the WHO Guidelines for Donated Drugs, 
and as a founding member of the Partnership for Quality Medical 
Donations (PQMD), Johnson & Johnson ensures that all its product 
donations follow global standards and best practices. We work with 
the PQMD to further strengthen their product donation guidelines.
More  
Resources
Learn more about our approach to 
disaster2018 Health for Humanity Report 60
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Approach to Disaster Response
In the event of a disaster, the Johnson & Johnson Crisis Management 
Team, comprised of many cross-functional teams across the 
Enterprise, ensures coordination and alignment to meet our 
commitment to the safety and wellbeing of our employees and 
their families, and to ensure our products get to where they are 
needed most. To that end, we work together toward preparedness, 
prevention, response, and quick recovery following a crisis.
We work with trusted partners on the front lines of care to help 
communities by coordinating product donations, and through 
programs that help communities recover, 
rebuild and become resilient.
Ensuring Business Continuity:
Our businesses are required to maintain a 
strong business continuity management 
program with centralized coordination and 
crisis management for regional events.Helping Communities Recover, 
Rebuild, and be Resilient:
Since our first recorded disaster response 
in 1906 , the Johnson & Johnson Family of 
Companies has responded consistently 
to major natural and man-made disasters 
around the world.
Supporting Employee 
Volunteerism & Giving:
Johnson & Johnson has strong 
employee engagement programs that 
support employees' giving back to their 
communities.Ensuring the Safety 
and Security of Our Employees:
Our first priority is helping our 
employees and their families meet basic 
needs and get back on their feet.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 61
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
We have longstanding relationships with strategic partners 
who have proven track records in product donations for 
disaster relief and for specific health conditions in low- and 
middle-income countries. Product donations managed 
by these partners align closely with the conditions for 
product donation recommended by WHO and PQMD, and 
with industry requirements and regulations. In the United 
States, we also support independent initiatives by donating 
medicines and funding to the Johnson & Johnson Patient 
Assistance Foundation Inc. (JJPAF), an independent, 
nonprofit organization that is committed to helping eligible 
patients without insurance coverage receive prescription 
products donated by Johnson & Johnson operating 
companies.
In 2018, we donated $987 million in free product and financial 
support to JJPAF, enabling the Foundation to provide 
medicines at no cost to approximately 76,000 patients.Our Performance
Our Giving 2018 2017 2016
Total cash and product contributed globally (millions) $1,612 $1,469 $1,194
Non-cash contributed globally* (millions) $1,299 $1,242 $1,006
Cash contributed globally** (millions) $313 $227 $188
* Non-cash contributions are recorded by Johnson & Johnson at fair market value as of 12/31/2018.
** Cash contributed globally includes $23 million contributed by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation through the U.S. Employee  
   Matching Gifts Program in 2018.
More  
Resources
Johnson & Johnson Foundation 2018 
Annual Report
Johnson & Johnson Corporate  
Citizenship Trust 2018 Annual Report2018 Health for Humanity Report 62
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
We owe our success to Johnson & Johnson employees who are 
passionate about our mission to change the trajectory of health for 
humanity. People join Johnson & Johnson to build a purpose-driven 
career that makes a difference; they stay with us to help create 
healthier lives and improve the wellbeing of the patients, customers 
and consumers we serve in our communities. Our Credo unifies 
our global, multi-generational workforce around the purpose and 
principles we’ve espoused since the beginning of our Company and 
continues to inspire our diverse employees around the world.
We maintain a comprehensive strategy that is built around three 
fundamental focus areas: attracting and recruiting the best and 
most diverse talent; developing and retaining talent through a broad 
array of learning and development experiences; and empowering 
and inspiring our people through innovative engagement initiatives 
and programs. Underpinning these focus areas are ongoing efforts 
to cultivate and foster a culture built on diversity and inclusion, 
innovation, health and wellbeing and employee safety across 
our Company, where our employees are empowered to succeed 
professionally and personally while helping us achieve our business 
goals. Our Global Labor and Employment Guidelines confirm our 
commitment to upholding the rights of employees as encompassed 
by International Labor Organization conventions and United Nations 
Global Compact Labor Principles.
Our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer, is a 
Corporate Officer and a member of the Johnson & Johnson Executive 
Committee charged with overseeing Global Talent Management, 
Global Benefits, Global Health Services and Worldwide Compensation 
Resources.Our People
2018 Health for Humanity Report 63
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Key Achievements in 2018
• Marked the 75th anniversary of Our Credo while also 
introducing enhancements to modernize the language and 
clarify our commitments. 
• Made significant progress on our HealthForce 2020 goals 
in each of the core pillars and launched our Global Exercise 
Reimbursement program. 
• Re-imagined hiring at Johnson & Johnson to allow for greater 
transparency, improved efficiency and a stronger candidate 
experience through new platforms. 
• Supported employee development by providing new tools, 
resources and experiences that are targeted at raising the 
performance and skill level of our people and supporting 
continuous growth.  
Areas of Opportunity
• Further develop our workforce analytics capabilities to optimize 
the diversity of our employees. 
• Continue to globalize our employee resource groups and fully 
deploy their business impact. 
• Optimize our SUMMIT learning management system for 
capturing and categorizing our training and development 
opportunities. “ Our culture is rooted in the 
values embodied in Our Credo, 
which calls on us to support our 
employees across their whole 
lives – spiritual, mental, physical 
and financial. Guided by this 
principle, we provide thousands of 
individuals with the opportunity 
to build a varied and diverse 
career across the full spectrum of 
human health and the opportunity 
to help advance our purpose of 
changing the trajectory of health 
for humanity. ”
               Peter M. Fasolo
               Executive Vice President, Chief     
               Human Resources Officer,  
               Johnson & Johnson
Our Credo Survey
90%  
participation rate in Our Credo Survey  
administered in  
36 
languages74
countriesin
Our responsibility to our 
employees in Our Credo
"We are responsible to our employees, 
the men and women who work with us 
throughout the world. Everyone must 
be considered as an individual. We must 
respect their dignity and recognize their 
merit. They must have a sense of security 
in their jobs. Compensation must be fair 
and adequate, and working conditions 
clean, orderly and safe. We must be 
mindful of ways to help our employees 
fulfill their family responsibilities. 
Employees must feel free to make 
suggestions and complaints. There must 
be equal opportunity for employment, 
development and advancement for those 
qualified. We must provide competent 
management, and their actions  
must be just and ethical."
2018 Health for Humanity Report 64
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Attracting the Most Talented People
GRI 401 (103)
As a global business, our success tomorrow depends upon the 
contribution of our people today. Our leaders must have the 
ability to deliver on our objectives in the light of new trends 
and developments—including new digital landscapes in 
healthcare, emerging market growth and dynamic workforce 
demographics, such as the rise of millennials—expected 
to comprise one-third of the global workforce by 2020.31 
Gallup’s State of the Global Workplace Report (2017) shows 
that companies in the top quartile for employee engagement 
are 17% more productive than those in the bottom quartile. At 
Johnson & Johnson, we believe in attracting the most talented 
people, investing in their development and engaging them 
to be their best, so that they can help lead our Company to a 
future of better health for humanity.
Employee-Centered Experience
Johnson & Johnson is one of the largest recruiters around 
the world, so it is important that we identify and attract 
talent to join us in a way that prioritizes the candidate 
experience and maximizes efficiency and inclusiveness. We 
are continuously seeking new ways to improve our recruitment process and overall experience. In 2018, for example, we 
added 15 questions to the early application process to ensure 
prospective employees share the values expressed in Our 
Credo.
New agile hiring process: To continue to attract and retain 
the best and most diverse people, we’re creating a new 
holistic strategy to reimagine and redesign the end-to-end 
employee experience. Feedback on the hiring experience 
from hiring managers, Human Resource Partners, recruiters 
and applicants highlighted the need for greater visibility, 
improved speed, more relevant candidates and a simpler, 
more intuitive process. In response, we launched the  
hire.jnj.com platform globally in 2018, providing data-
driven analytics and innovative tools as the basis for a 
faster, transparent, more agile process for managers to 
hire candidates. Hire.jnj.com includes features such as 
a dedicated online guide for recruiters, and the Credo 
Assessment for candidates to reflect our culture and values 
while providing potential candidates with a user-friendlier 
application experience.
New digital mobility platform: Given the breadth and scale 
of Johnson & Johnson, it is natural that we have thousands of 
people on the move at any given time. Settling in to a different 
city or country, or even continent, can be a daunting task, so 
in 2018, we launched Move. Move is a proprietary, integrated, 
digital platform that helps managers and employees stay in 
control of all relocation details—from handling expenses to 
cultural awareness training to family considerations. A global 
relocation consultant is also on hand to provide guidance 
and support. Making mobility easier is an important way that 
supports relocation and enables quick transitions into new 
roles at Johnson & Johnson, wherever they are. We encourage 
cross-sector and regional movement, and view it as a crucial 
way for our employees to have new experiences and develop 
new insights, contributing to diversity of thought in our culture “ At Johnson & Johnson, each and every 
employee plays a role in propelling us toward 
our purpose – and that all starts with ensuring 
we are attracting and retaining talent who 
share our values and commitment to changing 
the trajectory of health for humanity. ”
               Dave Crutchfield, Global Head, People  
               Experience & HR Service Delivery,  
              Johnson & JohnsonIn 2018, we filled
30,802  
positions
51.61%  
of new hires were women
and to innovation in our business.
Fair Compensation
We are committed to compensating our employees fairly and 
offering the kinds of benefits that are relevant to meet the 
needs of today’s employees and their families. Through our 
compensation framework, a set of core principles that guide 
all compensation decisions, we recognize the important 
contribution of our employees to delivering our mission in 
ways that align with our values.
Our compensation principles
Competitiveness: We aim to attract, retain and 
motivate high-performing employees and benchmark our 
compensation programs against industry peers to ensure we 
offer competitive packages.
Pay for performance: Base salary increases, annual bonuses 
and long-term incentives are linked to performance at three 
levels: individual, division and Enterprise.
Accountability for short- and long-term performance: 
Performance-based rewards and both short- and long-term 
2018 Health for Humanity Report 65
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
financial and strategic business results.
Alignment to shareholders’ interests: 
Performance-based compensation is 
aligned with both the interests of our 
employees and the long-term interests of 
our shareholders.
Pay equity: We are committed to pay equity, 
including gender pay equity. We analyze our 
pay across functions and levels, and strive to 
eliminate unconscious bias or other barriers 
to full pay equity across the Enterprise.
Employee Benefits GRI 401-2
To support our employee experience, we 
seek to understand the entire lifecycle 
needs of our people at work, and help 
enrich their lives and those of their loved 
ones with a holistic range of benefits, 
starting with health and wellbeing and 
extending to retirement planning and 
finances. 
New global benefit introduced in 2018
To support our holistic health strategy and 
mental wellbeing, we launched an enhanced and unified global Employee Assistance 
Program (EAP) and WorkLife Services 
program. Starting in North America and 
gradually rolling out across the globe, this 
program provides additional resources 
for employees and family members, 
including a larger network of specialists, 
additional training and educational tools 
and a more well-rounded approach to 
WorkLife balance, resiliency and stress 
management. In the United States and 
Puerto Rico, we began piloting a resilience 
app resource, designed to help employees 
tap into their most powerful selves by 
addressing their unique thinking styles, 
offering simple techniques to help build 
resilience and enhance their ability to 
respond to stressful thoughts and situations. 
Our aim is to support employees through 
particularly stressful situations or concerns, 
including access to confidential short-term 
counseling, 24/7 online tools and resources, 
and on-site crisis support. From work and 
relationship concerns, stress and anxiety, 
to legal and financial consultation services, 
this resource is available to employees and 
their family members at no cost.Hiring Summary 2018 2017
Positions filled* 30,802 26,427
     External hires 21,309 18,143
     Internal hires 9,493 8,284A selection of employee benefits at global and/ or local level*
Health:
• On-site health centers at 122 
locations across the globe that 
provide immediate injury/illness care, 
occupational health and personal 
health coaching
• On-site fitness centers and global 
exercise reimbursement
• EAP and WorkLife Services including 
counseling with mental health 
professionals
• Healthy eating options and support 
at our facilities' health screenings, 
cancer awareness and prevention
• Energy management and resilience 
trainings
• Modified duty and support for 
returning to work after an injury or 
illness
• Access to International SOS for 
business travel, providing one-click 
access to assistance, as well as 
medical and security alerts for your 
business travel destinations.
• Tobacco-free workplace and smoking 
cessation support
• HIV/AIDS confidential testing and 
support
• Personal health assessment and 
personalized digital health tools
• Transgender-inclusive health 
insurance coverage and same-sex 
partner benefits Family:
• Global Parental Leave including a 
minimum of 8 weeks for all new 
parents
• Breast Milk Shipping
• Fertility, surrogacy assistance and 
adoption benefits
• Childcare benefits, including on-site 
childcare centers, and emergency 
back-up care including children with 
special needs
• Pet insurance benefits
Financial health:
• Pension/retirement plans
• Retirement Savings Plan**
• Financial planning, including student 
loans**
• Access to legal counseling
• Enhanced military and first-responder 
benefits**
• Tuition reimbursement
 
* This is not an exhaustive list but 
representative of our overall benefits 
packages. Where possible, we apply 
benefits globally. However, local 
regulation or market norms govern local 
practice. 
** U.S. and Puerto Rico only.* These metrics include only territories supported by the system "Talent Acquisition".2018 Health for Humanity Report 66
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
New benefits introduced in the U.S in 2018
• To assist employees with managing work and 
family commitments with the least possible 
stress, especially when unplanned needs arise, 
we offer Back-Up Dependent Care. Employees 
can access up to 15 annual days of back-up 
family care. New parents have access to 20 
additional days of back-up care immediately 
following return from parental leave.  
• A new Student Loan Assistance Program 
gives employees access to a web portal that 
provides information on consolidating and 
refinancing student loans, as well as coaching 
with a counselor. 
• Financial Wellness for Life is a free new benefit 
designed to help employees better manage 
their savings, debts, investments, retirement 
planning and other financial needs. This service 
offers group webinars or personal sessions 
with financial coaches for employees, spouses 
and partners. 2018 Health for Humanity Report 67
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Global Workforce by Region GRI 102-8
2018 2017 2016
Asia Pacific 28,016 26,376 25,036
Europe, Middle East & Africa 43,494 43,636 42,436
Latin America 21,433 20,796 21,268
North America 47 ,918 44,890 45,998
Total 140,861 135,698 134,738Global Workforce by Employment Type GRI 102-8
2018 2017 2016
Global workforce, full time
   Women 45.97% 45.31% 44.73%
   Men 54.03% 54.69% 55.25%
Global workforce, part time
   Under 30 83.62% 84.83% 84.78%
   30 - 50 16.38% 15.17% 15.20%
 U.S. Employees Benefits GRI 401-3
2018 2017 2016
U.S. employees that took parental leave, by gender
   Women 44% 41% 48%
   Men 56% 59% 52%
U.S. employees that returned to work after parental leave ended, 
by gender*
   Women 98% 98% 100%
   Men 100% 99% 100%New Employee Hires GRI 401-1
2018 2017 2016
New employee hires, by gender
   Women 51.61% 51.29% 51.14%
   Men 48.39% 48.71% 48.79%
New employee hires, by age
   Under 30 47 .12% 44.74% 46.49%
   30 - 50 47 .96% 47.55% 48.79%
   50+ 4.92% 7.68% 4.72%
New employee hires, by region
   Asia Pacific 30.11% 24.21% 24.04%
   Europe, Middle  
   East & Africa27 .35% 24.83% 28.63%
   Latin America 16.88% 17.88% 19.56%
   North America 25.66% 33.08% 27.76%Global Workforce by Gender
47 .05%   
Women
52.95%   
MenOur Performance
Global Workforce by Region, by Gender GRI 102-8
2018 2017 2016
Global workforce, Asia Pacific
   Women 45.57% 43.77% 42.52%
   Men 54.43% 56.23% 57.48%
Global workforce, Europe, Middle East & Africa
   Women 48.47% 48.20% 47.51%
   Men 51.53% 51.80% 52.49%
Global workforce, Latin America
   Women 49.35% 48.55% 47.52%
   Men 50.65% 51.45% 52.40%
Global workforce, North America
   Women 45.59% 45.48% 45.69%
   Men 54.41% 54.52% 54.31%* In 2018, we revised our calculation methodology to increase 
accuracy of reported percentages based on actual return to work 
after parental leave ended.2018 Health for Humanity Report 68
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Creating Unique Career Opportunities
GRI 404 (103), 404-2
The opportunity to develop personally and professionally is a  
core aspiration both for employees who have newly joined  
our organization and for those who have been part of the  
Johnson & Johnson family for several years. We therefore deploy a 
global approach to ensure development is for everyone, regardless 
of where they are on their career journey. Our objective is to foster 
a learning culture that helps shape each person’s unique career 
path, and empower them to better contribute to achieving our 
business objectives while creating a robust pipeline of talent to 
deliver our long-term strategies.
At Johnson & Johnson, we believe development is for everyone. 
We maintain an integrated, enterprise-wide approach to 
human resources management and professional development, 
empowering everyone to achieve their personal best at work.
Personal and Professional Development
Our development programs cover a full variety of learning 
methods, including on-the-job training, online courses, workshops 
and other experiential training. Our enterprise-wide learning 
management system called SUMMIT is available to employees 
globally. SUMMIT is an integrated portal offering self-enrollment in 
training programs and tracking of individual training progress and 
results.We believe that development is key to building a healthy career 
and we continuously look for ways to support our employees in 
owning their development and growth, and in gaining access to the 
people and tools that will help them do so. In 2018, we launched a 
new global personal development platform called MyDevelopment. 
With MyDevelopment, employees can build a Personalized 
Development Framework around the three Es of Education, 
Exposure and Experience to create a balanced development plan 
to support their ongoing growth as they strive to build a healthy 
career.
Leadership Programs
To help transform the future of health for humanity, we must have 
highly capable leaders across our business. To achieve this, we are 
transforming how we assess and develop people leaders.  MyDevelopment resources 
available to all employees 
Let’s Develop global speaker series 
showcases development best practices 
from external experts and internal 
thought leaders on a quarterly basis.
Development Month initiative leverages 
the mid-year time point as an opportunity 
for our employees to self-reflect and 
prioritize their healthiest careers and 
a network of global Development 
Champions act at a local level to share 
development resources, plan local 
activities and inspire employees to 
make their development a priority all 
throughout the year.
Development Month Champions  
across the globe ensure awareness and 
encourage participation in learning and 
development opportunities and in our 
“Let’s Develop” social media forum.$90M 
spent on employee learning and development30.82% 
of our new roles were filled by employees who 
developed within the organization in 2018, building 
diversity of experiences
44.2% 
of managers32 and above moved across functions, 
country or business segment lines
“ Attracting, recruiting and retaining diverse 
people who are globally-minded, agile and adaptable 
is a way of keeping our organization healthy and 
innovative. A full span of talent management and 
professional and leadership development programs 
underpin our retention strategies. ”
               Mary Lauria, Head, Global Talent Management,  
               Johnson & Johnson
2018 Health for Humanity Report 69
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
We believe that every employee at Johnson & Johnson is a leader, 
and our goal is to help employees realize this potential. Our Global 
Talent Management organization creates a consistent leadership 
development experience enterprise-wide. Our Leadership 
Imperatives give our employees a clear and consistent way to lead 
Johnson & Johnson into the future, and deliver on our mission to 
change the trajectory of health for humanity.
We maintain a suite of leadership and development programs to 
accelerate the progress of individuals who have been identified 
through our succession planning processes as having the potential 
to fulfill more senior leadership roles within the Enterprise.
All of these programs were conducted in 2018, reaching hundreds 
of leaders around the organization. For example, vice presidents 
joined the Accelerated Enterprise Leadership (AEL) program 
to target areas for development and growth to continue their 
career progression. The program is designed to help participants 
lead effective internal change. It includes three residential 
sessions, market visits, executive coaching assessments and an 
action learning project, completed in collaboration with other 
participants. In 2018, action learning projects in partnership with 
Johnson & Johnson Innovation JLABS focused on new business 
models and use of machine learning to solve pressing health and 
other challenges.
In 2018, in response to results from our People Leader Effectiveness 
survey, we delivered critical new learning content and resources Leadership and development 
programs 
AEL (Accelerate Enterprise Leadership):  
Vice presidents who aspire to more senior 
roles.
AEO (Accelerate Executive Orientation):  
Newly promoted or externally hired vice 
presidents to learn about expectations for 
their role and their impact on the Enterprise.
TAP (Talent Acceleration Process): Current 
directors preparing for vice president 
level. In 2018, we reached the level of 
88% of directors who had participated in 
TAP. Representation of women in TAP has 
doubled since 2015.
ASCEND: Designed for mid-level female 
leaders aiming to increase their leadership 
impact.
RISE: Mid-level U.S.-based racially and 
ethnically diverse talent aiming to grow 
their leadership impact. This new program 
was launched in 2018.
IDP (International Development Program):  
Mid-level leaders focused on developing 
core capabilities in another country.
ELD (Enterprise Leader Development): For 
a broader employee population, all newly 
hired or promoted leaders are assigned to an 
ELD program. ELD consists of two interactive 
multi-week learning programs that establish 
standards of excellence for management 
effectiveness and leadership development.“ The learnings they acquired and networks they built 
through the AEL program have enabled participants to 
introduce new innovations and improvements in the 
business. Their mindsets shift to lean in, take risks, and 
own accountability to drive and lead innovation and 
transformation. The impact is exponential. ”
               Erica Desrosiers, Head, Accelerated Development,  
              Johnson & Johnson1,851 
new leaders took our ELD Program in 2018, bringing the 
total number of leaders trained to date to 4,459
1,244 
U.S. and Puerto Rico employees participated in the tuition 
reimbursement program
We believe that performance deveopment should be an 
ongoing process. 
Formal Conversations
Ongoing Conversations and FeedbackPerformance DevelopmentP&D PlanningMid-Year PerformanceYear-End Performance
Career PlanningCompensationJUNE - JULY DEC - JAN JAN - FEB
     
89%
of employees globally completed year-end  
performance reviews in 2018
2018 Health for Humanity Report 70
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
through our on-demand, digital platform, Leadership 
Navigator, to raise the performance and skill level of our 
people leaders around the globe. Leadership Navigator 
allows for a personalized learning journey with an on-demand 
library of tools, supporting people leaders at the moments 
that matter—whenever and wherever they need it. And, the 
Navigator now contains resources in 10 languages.
Performance Management
Employee performance at Johnson & Johnson is measured 
in two dimensions, the “what” and the “how.” Our 
Leadership Imperatives set the performance behavioral 
expectations for all employees—the "how." The Leadership 
Imperatives give our employees across all geographies, 
businesses,  
roles and levels a clear and consistent way to lead the  
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies into the future.
All our employees formally discuss their progress and plan 
their professional development with their managers five 
times each year, in our Five Conversations framework, 
which is in addition to informal, ongoing discussions 
throughout the balance of the year. This ensures that 
personal development is progressed effectively and benefits 
from meaningful support throughout the year.
Overall performance in year-end conversations include 
assessing business results achieved, the degree to which 
our leadership behaviors were demonstrated, and further 
development options. Manager bonuses are linked to 
leadership performance as well as business results.Year-End Performance Reviews Completed  
by Job Category GRI 404-3
2018 2017 2016
Vice President 1% 1% Not Reported
Manager & Director 28% 28% Not Reported
Professional 62% 61% Not Reported
Other* 9% 10% Not Reported
Overall for all employees 89% 88% 81%Spend on Employee Learning and Development by 
Category (millions)
2018
Other professional skills $47
General leadership training & assessments $22
E-learning $7
Executive coaching $6
Other $8
Total $90
Employee Turnover
2018
Overall voluntary turnover 7 .8%
Voluntary turnover of high performers 3.9%* Category includes employees that don’t have a merit plan as 
part of their compensation package.Our Performance2018 Health for Humanity Report 71
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Engaging, Empowering & Inspiring
GRI 413 (103), 413-1
At Johnson & Johnson, we understand the workforce of the future 
will need an innovative mindset, the ability to think through a 
global lens, and a diverse set of experiences and skill sets. We 
believe in inspiring our employees to aim high and dream big, 
and encourage them to play an active role in helping change the 
trajectory of health for humanity. We engage, empower and inspire 
our employees by fostering a work culture where everyone can 
make their voice heard by providing platforms for employees to 
express their creativity, and through opportunities for employees to 
make a meaningful contribution to address social or environmental 
challenges.
Fostering a Connected Culture
Our organization-wide communication processes include town hall-
style meetings at global, local or functional level, and sharing of news 
through many channels, including our One J&J news hub digital daily 
digests and electronic communications from senior leaders.
In addition to multiple two-way communication channels with our 
employees at all levels of the business, we conduct global surveys 
that enable our employees to speak out about any aspect of their 
work and relationships at Johnson & Johnson, providing us with 
valuable insight to help address potential human resources risks and 
identify opportunities to improve.
In 2018, Johnson & Johnson marked the 75th anniversary of Our 
Credo, the set of values that ground and guide the decision making 
of our leaders and employees around the world, by taking the 
opportunity to reengage employees in a meaningful way around Our 
Credo. Through a sustained six-month program, employees were 
challenged to expand their understanding of our commitments, 
reflect and engage in open conversations about opportunities to 
better live Our Credo, and take ownership of their responsibility through daily actions. The Executive Committee led in-depth 
conversations on each paragraph, discussing with employees how 
we are living our values, where we can show up stronger for those 
we serve, and how we can continue to improve human health for 
generations to come. At the first annual Credo Day celebration 
on December 13, more than 30,000 employees around the world 
participated in a Global Town Hall, attended unique celebrations, 
and joined outreach efforts to bring the spirit of Our Credo to their 
local communities.
Creative Engagement
Since 2011, we maintain our Office of Creative Engagement 
(OCE) as a platform for empowering our employees to develop 
themselves and their ideas. OCE encourages employees to think 
outside the realm of day-to-day operations to develop and advance 
innovative concepts. To facilitate engagement across our global “ At Johnson & Johnson we have two core value 
propositions for our employees that help engage and 
inspire them. The first is Our Credo, which is deeply 
embedded in our culture as a set of positive social 
values, and the second is our purpose to change 
the trajectory of health for humanity. We add what 
employees need to feel empowered: tools to do the 
job, supportive leadership, professional development 
and more. ”
               Paul Anthony, Head, Global Total Rewards and Human  
               Capital Strategy, Johnson & JohnsonTEDxJNJ
Quick Facts
First Event:
Nov. 2011  
in Princeton, NJ
Total number of events to  
year-end 2018:
76 events  
in 19 countries
Number of events in 2018:
20 events  
across 13 countries
Total speakers to year-end 2018:
more than
530 videos
2018 Health for Humanity Report 72
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
enterprise, the OCE provides frameworks, tools and support 
for employees wishing to get creative and drive higher levels 
of engagement.
One of the most popular tools that OCE offers is TEDxJNJ. 
Anyone can propose a TEDxJNJ event and, once the event 
is accepted by OCE, can engage a group of colleagues to go 
about planning, preparing and bringing the agenda to life. 
The speakers at TEDxJNJ events are Johnson & Johnson 
employees who have a personal or professional story to 
tell that can be a source of inspiration for others, with an 
occasional external speaker taking part in some events. 
The TEDxJNJ audience is made up of Johnson & Johnson 
employees. TEDxJNJ has become a safe place to listen, 
learn, reflect, share, inspire and engage, and a platform for 
unleashing creativity among the best minds in our Company. 
Many senior leaders at Johnson & Johnson speak at, attend 
or sponsor TEDxJNJ events. Our library of TEDxJNJ video 
talks is a permanent record of many inspiring stories and is 
available to all employees on our online portal.
Engaging Employees in Communities
Firmly behind our purpose of changing the trajectory of 
health for humanity, our employees are proud to engage in our communities around the world and offer practical assistance to 
help make a positive difference in healthcare everywhere.  
Our various policies and offerings around the globe seek to 
encourage volunteerism in all regions and at all levels by providing  
Johnson & Johnson employees a range of opportunities in which 
they can actively contribute and participate. For example, we 
support skill-based volunteering in the community with a policy of 
providing paid leave to cover the volunteer period; this is currently 
being offered to employees in the United States and Puerto Rico.
Talent for Good – connecting employee purpose to  
company purpose
At the higher end of the scale, for employees who are prepared to 
take on and experience an immersive, transformative skills-based 
opportunity, we offer Global Pro Bono programs and Johnson & 
Johnson Secondments.
The Global Pro Bono program that piloted in 2017 expanded 
to 21 participants in 2018, who shared their skills to help seven 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in Chile, Colombia and 
Puerto Rico run more efficiently, overcome unique hurdles and 
better reach their goals. As part of the program in Chile,  
Johnson & Johnson employees partnered with IBM to leverage 
their core capabilities in IT and healthcare to support three 
More  
Resources
Hear from Global Pro Bono volunteers 
on the Johnson & Johnson blog
Hear from Johnson & Johnson  
employees taking part in the  
Secondment Program
“ I found that TEDxJNJ gave me a new lease on life and helped me face my fears of speaking about such a hard topic. I have 
been on a personal mission to fight modern slavery – both in terms of eliminating human trafficking and in terms of making 
changes in our consumeristic behaviors that create the conditions for modern slavery to thrive. We should all be aware of the 
changes we can and must make to prevent exploitation – we are one humanity. Since being invited to talk at TEDxJNJ, I have 
been overwhelmed by the amount of interest and support I have received, including invitations to speak at other events. Overall, 
I have reached more than 2,300 people with my talks on this subject. TEDxJNJ was my first platform and it gave me courage and 
a new freedom to continue to pursue my passion to create lasting change. ”
               Elisa Torres, Marketing Manager, Ethicon Biosurgery
2018 Health for Humanity Report 73
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
organizations focused on strengthening community resilience 
and disaster preparedness in the capital city of Santiago. We also 
introduced a remote pro bono program in 2018, Talent for Healthy 
Community, connecting the unique talents and expertise of our 
employees with local community partners to address their critical 
capacity building needs.
The Johnson & Johnson Secondment Program, now in its sixth 
year, offers Johnson & Johnson employees the opportunity to 
share their skills, experiences and talent with eight NGO partner 
organizations across 25 countries in the Europe, Middle East and 
Africa region serving in long-term assignments (up to six months). 
All Secondees receive one-on-one coaching from Johnson & 
Johnson retirees and mentoring guidance from program alumni 
before, during and after their Secondment.
Building Young Leadership Capacity Across the Globe
The Johnson & Johnson One Young World Program builds the 
capacity of young leaders across the globe to change the trajectory 
of health for humanity. Since 2013, Johnson & Johnson has 
partnered with One Young World (OYW) to connect hundreds of 
young change makers from both within and outside of  
Johnson & Johnson to unique opportunities to formulate innovative 
solutions to the world’s most pressing health issues. For young 
health leaders outside of the Company, the global partnership 
includes scholarships and professional coaching from Johnson & 
Johnson executives, in addition to mentorship for participating 
Johnson & Johnson employees to act on their passion for a 
Empowering young leaders 
across the globe through the 
Johnson & Johnson One Young 
World Program
healthier world within the Company. In 2018, Johnson & Johnson 
sent its largest delegation to date to the OYW Summit in The 
Hague, The Netherlands.
Advancing Women in Science
Building a diverse STEM2D (Science, Technology, Engineering, 
Math, Manufacturing and Design) community supports the 
acceleration of women as global leaders of innovation to improve 
health and wellbeing, and drive sustainable economic growth. 
Johnson & Johnson launched the WiSTEM2D program in 2015 to 
increase the representation of women in science and technical 
fields. Many Johnson & Johnson employees volunteer to review 
applications for the award, in support of this program. In 2018, 
we announced an inaugural group of recipients of the WiSTEM2D 
Scholars Award. Each received $150,000 in funding and three years 
of mentorship from Johnson & Johnson leaders and members 
More  
Resources
Read the impressive stories of each of 
these scholars2,571 
employees across the globe spent 
8,332  
volunteer hours to support STEM2D in 2018
364 
employees across the globe spent 
10,034  
volunteer hours to support Bridge to Employment in 2018
Johnson & Johnson WiSTEM2D 
volunteers at Stuart School in New 
Jersey, where Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer Inc. R&D female leaders 
hosted workshops and demonstrated 
virtual reality tools for surgeon training 
to engage girls in science.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 74
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
of the Awards’ Advisory Board, which includes Board of Director 
member Mary Beckerle, Ph.D.
Creating our healthcareprofessionals of the future with a  
Bridge to Employment
For 25 years, Johnson & Johnson employees have been helping 
prepare high school students from disadvantaged communities 
to stay in school, enroll in higher education and pursue a career 
in the health sector. Launched in 1992, our Bridge to Employment 
initiative in partnership with non-profit FHI360, has helped 
young people improve school attendance, enhance academic 
achievements, and gain awareness of higher education and career 
possibilities in healthcare.
Engaging Employees for the Environment
At Johnson & Johnson, we understand that human health is 
inextricably linked to environmental health—you can’t have healthy 
people without a healthy planet. Our environmental sustainability 
engagement program, We Sustain, mobilizes our employees to 
share ideas and collaborate to improve the environmental health 
of the places where we live, work and sell our products. Over 
1,000 employees from across the globe have joined We Sustain; 
they network with like-minded individuals, working to protect the 
environment and human health. Employees can volunteer in the 
community, deliver engagement activities, and submit and share 
ideas through the We Sustain website and our Global Sustainability 
community engagement platform.
Employees are encouraged to share their sustainability ideas during 
the Johnson & Johnson We Sustain Sustainability Accelerator 
Grants challenge. Employees who submit sustainability ideas 
with the potential to be replicated and scaled throughout the 
organization receive funding of between $5,000 and $50,000 to 
build out their ideas.A selection of the winning We Sustain entries
• Diversion of wastewater to off-site beneficial reuse 
as chemical feedstock to reduce hazardous waste to 
landfill by more than 1 million lbs. annually
• Regrinding and reusing machine tools to avoid waste
• Developing automatic cycles for injection molding 
machines to reduce energy use
• Installing new equipment to separate waste and reduce 
volume of space it requires for storage by 90%
• Reusing waste that is normally discarded, such as 
shampoo residue to car washing products405
entries from teams across all  
geographies and businesses
13
project finalistsWe Sustain 2018 Facts“ Being part of the We Sustain Network, and winning 
a Sustainability Accelerator Grant, helped me to 
propagate my idea for greener research labs until it 
grew into something way bigger than I imagined.  
The group helped me to build my network within 
Johnson & Johnson and outside of Johnson & Johnson, 
from the U.S., to Europe, and even to China. ”
               Afton Hiscox, Associate Scientist II, Discovery  
               Chemistry, Janssen Research & Development, LLC
Students from the Bridge to Employment 
program play interactive team building 
exercises. 
Photo credit: Jessica Scranton
2018 Health for Humanity Report 75
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Advancing Diversity & Inclusion
GRI 405 (103
Today’s rapidly changing world requires new and innovative 
thinking and solutions. The intertwining strands of change in 
healthcare, patient and consumer demographics and the workplace 
pose challenges and opportunities for Johnson & Johnson. These 
can only be met by using diversity and inclusion (D&I) as a key 
lever to drive innovation and business results. D&I enables us to 
better understand and connect with our diverse and multicultural 
patients, customers and consumers—so we can better serve them 
every day.
We know that bringing our diverse backgrounds, cultures, and 
perspectives together is the way to solve today’s complex health 
problems. Our Credo outlines our responsibility to create an 
inclusive environment and respect the dignity and diversity of all 
people. This makes D&I everyone’s responsibility—that of every 
employee around the globe. Empowering everyone at Johnson 
& Johnson to perform at their best while being themselves is 
fundamental to our continued success. That is why we strategically 
approach D&I as we would any other business imperative.In 2018, we continued to progress on D&I by further 
implementing our D&I strategy, which focuses on three pillars: 
advance a culture of inclusion and innovation, build a diverse 
workforce of the future, and enhance business performance and 
reputation. The strategy starts with helping our people discover 
ways of working that foster a deep sense of belonging—for 
themselves, for their teams, for Johnson & Johnson. This 
enables us to further a culture that can fully leverage the diverse 
mindsets, experiences and skills of our people and improve 
health for billions of people.
At Johnson & Johnson, D&I is built into the fabric of our 
DNA and has always been critical to our success in delivering 
quality health solutions and innovations to the billions of 
people we serve around the world. Our commitment to 
D&I starts at the top with our Chairman and CEO, who 
holds his senior leaders accountable for progress against 
their D&I strategies, and drives this commitment through 
the organization by embedding D&I in his employee 
communications and engagements. We have systems of 
accountability through a variety of programs and controls, 
business reviews and our performance management system. 
Our leaders role-model inclusive behaviors by holding 
conversations with employees around mitigating unconscious 
bias, including D&I in town halls and communications, and 
by serving as executive sponsors for our Employee Resource 
Groups (ERGs). In fact, every member of the Executive 
Committee sponsors an ERG. D&I is both who we are and 
what we do; it’s how we work every day.Diversity in Upward Promotions
50.9%   
Women
49.1%   
Men20,318 
employees engaged in ERGs
240 
U.S. ERG Chapters
64 
non-U.S. ERG Chapters
More  
Resources
Learn more about the  
progress we are making in D&I at 
Johnson & Johnson2018 Health for Humanity Report 76
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Performance
Age Diversity by Job Category
2018 2017 2016
Vice Presidents
   Under 30 --% --% 0.1%
   30 - 50 46.6% 45.6% 45.9%
   50+ 53.4% 54.4% 54.0%
Managers and Directors
   Under 30 1.4% 1.3% 1.3%
   30 - 50 73.9% 74.3% 74.7%
   50+ 24.7% 24.4% 23.9%
Professionals
   Under 30 21.4% 20.8% 19.5%
   30 - 50 61.7% 62.3% 65.4%
   50+ 1 7. 0% 17.0% 15.1%
The Board Diversity
2018 2017 2016
Women on the Board 27% 20% 20%
Minorities on the Board 27% 30% 30%Women in Executive and Management Positions*
2018
Women in management 
positions45.3%
Women in executive positions 14.3%Gender Diversity by Job Category  GRI 405-1
2018 2017 2016
Vice Presidents
   Women 35.0% 33.1% 31.9%
   Men 65.0% 66.9% 68.1%
Managers and Directors
   Women 45.6% 44.7% 43.8%
   Men 54.4% 55.3% 56.2%
Professionals
   Women 48.5% 47.2% 48.9%
   Men 51.5% 52.8% 51.1%
* Executives defined as employees reporting directly to the Chairman 
& CEO; management position defined as paygrade 30 and above.2018 Health for Humanity Report 77
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Ethnic Diversity in the U.S. by Job Category
2018 2017 2016
Vice Presidents
   White 74.9% 76.0% 79.4%
   Minority 25.1% 24.0% 20.1%
        Asian 10.4% Not Reported Not Reported
       Black/African      
       American6.6% Not Reported Not Reported
       Hispanic/Latino 7 .7% Not Reported Not Reported
       Other 0.4% Not Reported Not Reported
Managers and Directors
   White 70.7% 71.5% 74.2%
   Minority 29.3% 28.5% 25.8%
        Asian 16.5% Not Reported Not Reported
       Black/African     
       American4.9% Not Reported Not Reported
       Hispanic/Latino 6.9% Not Reported Not Reported
       Other 1.1% Not Reported Not Reported
Professionals
   White 68.4% 68.8% 77.2%
   Minority 31.6% 31.2% 22.8%
        Asian 12.0% Not Reported Not Reported
       Black/African  
       American7 .3% Not Reported Not Reported
       Hispanic/Latino 10.7% Not Reported Not Reported
       Other 1.7% Not Reported Not ReportedEthnic Diversity of New Hires in the U.S. by Job Category
2018
Vice Presidents
   White 90.3%
   Asian 9.7%
  Black/African American – %
  Hispanic/Latino – %
  Other – %
Managers and Directors
   White 65.6%
   Asian 20.8%
  Black/African American 5.8%
  Hispanic/Latino 6.5%
  Other 1.3%
Professionals
   White 63.0%
   Asian 16.2%
  Black/African American 7 .7%
  Hispanic/Latino 10.3%
  Other 2.8%Our Performance, cont.2018 Health for Humanity Report 78
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Providing Safe Workplaces
GRI 403 (103)
Workplace safety is a core value at Johnson & Johnson. We believe 
that with the right awareness, focus, practices and tools, we can 
ensure that all our employees around the world, as well as temporary 
contractors and visitors to our sites, can work safely at all times. 
Our approach extends beyond staying safe at work—we offer and 
encourage use of safety tips beyond the workplace, striving to 
inspire a safe mindset all day, every day, contributing to safer families 
and a safer society.
Our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Policy and Worldwide 
Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability Standards (EHS&S 
Standards), set the requirements for our health, safety and 
environmental practices at our facilities, off-site work locations 
around the world and all our employees, contractors and visitors. 
The Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee and the Board of 
Directors’ Regulatory Compliance Committee review health and 
safety performance annually.
As a minimum, we comply with all applicable safety laws and 
regulations wherever we operate. However, our EHS&S Standards go 
beyond the minimum to establish a culture of safety in which every 
individual takes personal responsibility and accountability for their 
own safety and that of those around them.
Our Safety Culture Roadmap
Johnson & Johnson understands the importance of shaping a strong 
safety culture that empowers individuals and teams to extend their 
efforts beyond compliance to holistic safety risk management. 
Cultural cornerstones include leader involvement, focusing on risks 
that can result in serious injury, and empowering employees to 
report safety concerns. Leaders, influencers and technical specialists 
are given the opportunity to enhance safety processes through the 
Integrated Ownership of Safety Systems (IOSS) program. Awareness 
of risks that have significant consequences for injury are reinforced 
through Life Saving Rules (LSRs), a set of rules that identify what 
Johnson & Johnson has determined to be the most critical safety hazards that, if not controlled, can lead to severe events, including 
fatalities. The LSRs are included within the EHS&S Standards. The 
Standard requires that employees and contractors are informed 
about and adhere to the Johnson & Johnson LSRs.
Finally, employees at all levels shape the working environment by 
proactively identifying and reporting behaviors or conditions that 
can lead to injury.
Leveraging leading indicators of safety—such as Good Saves, 
where our entire population is encouraged to recognize, report, 
and resolve hazards—is a key enabler of our strong safety results. 
Our Good Saves program called "See Something, Say Something, 
Do Something" creates awareness and focus on these hazards, “ There is nothing more fundamental about our 
responsibility to our employees than our promise to 
provide them a safe place to work. This cannot be 
done only with engineering controls and by enforcing 
rules and regulations. This requires a partnership 
between our company and our employees – to 
work together to ensure that safety is top-of-mind 
for every employee in everything they do. It’s this 
people-centric safety culture we reinforce each day 
that enables us to have such excellent workplace 
safety outcomes. In 2018, we amplified our culture of 
safety by designating one month as safety month with 
enterprise-wide communications and activities aimed 
at engaging employees in a safety all day, every day 
mindset, whether at work, at home or on the road. ”
               Paulette Frank, Vice President,  
               EHS and Sustainability, Johnson & JohnsonOHSAS
We encourage third-party certification 
to the Occupational Health and Safety 
Assessment Series management system 
(OHSAS 18000). In 2018, 32% of our 
manufacturing and R&D sites were 
certified to OHSAS.*
* OHSAS certification for companies acquired 
after reporting year 2015 are excluded.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 79
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
and helps drive risk reduction by proactively risk-assessing and 
addressing hazardous situations. In addition to recognizing overall 
hazards, we have a process for recognizing and separating out high-
hazard situations that could result in Severe Injury or Fatality (SIF).
Engaging Employees in Safety
We provide a suite of training programs for EHS&S professionals 
and all employees across Johnson & Johnson at the Enterprise, 
regional, campus and site levels, as well as field sales and service 
groups. We also manage and track the safety of contractors 
at our sites: large capital construction projects follow a formal 
construction safety plan.
In 2018, we held our first-ever enterprise-wide Safety Month to 
provide a focused period of awareness, education and collaboration 
for improved safety practice, engaging employees from across 
the Company in our offices, in the field, in our labs and on the 
production floor. As part of Safety Month 2018, employees from 
around the world pledged to have a “safety all day every day” 
mindset at work, at home and on the go.Safety All Day website 
Our website offers tools and resources 
for employees and their families, focusing 
on safety practices at work, at home and 
on the road.  
 
Check it out at: safetyallday.comAdvancing our safety culture in Brazil
From 2012 to 2016, after four amputations involving fingers and a 
contractor fatality, our São José dos Campos (SJC) Campus decided 
to take a different journey to eradicate severe injuries. These 
incidents awakened the need for a transformation in each one of SJC 
employees. We initiated the SJC Safety Culture Evolution Project. 
Out of an initial assessment performed by external partners, gaps 
were identified, and action plans put in place. All focused in the 
process to bring Safety Culture to a benchmarking level.
After two years and the completion of the first wave of this five-year 
journey, our employees from SJC Campus in Brazil are fully engaged 
in Safety Culture. A major turnaround has been achieved, validated 
through a new assessment performed by an external partner in the 
third quarter of 2018. Activities from the shop floor to the senior 
management level in the region were key to this turnaround, and 
proved how leadership engagement is critical to success. Leaders 
now understand that demonstration of their commitment and 
personal values is imperative to a Safety Culture evolution. Results 
include no severe events or Lost Workday Cases (LWDC) at the SJC 
Campus.“ AIP Foundation has been trying 
our best to bring high-quality 
helmets and useful road safety 
knowledge for Vietnamese children. 
Danger can appear anywhere, 
anytime, and child fatality rates from 
road accidents keep increasing. 
With the long-term commitment 
from Johnson & Johnson, we hope 
to expand this meaningful project 
and create a safer road to school for 
children. ”
Hoang Thi Na Huong, Deputy CEO of   
AIP FoundationAudience Safety Training Delivery Method Sample Topics
Enterprise Level Webinars, e-learning, group projects, face-
to-face sessionsMachine safety, IOSS, Permit-to-Work, Warehouse Safety, 
Behind the Wheel fleet safety training
Regional and Campus Level, 
including Contractors, Field 
Sales and Service GroupsWebinars, e-learning, face-to-face sessions Tailored to address issues important and relevant to the 
specific regional and campus level needs, also for capability 
building, complying with national and local regulations, 
maintaining and improving safety and environmental practices
EHS&S Professionals Webinars, e-learning Leadership, communications, and other  
management skills2018 Health for Humanity Report 80
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Road Safety
Our road safety vision is for drivers around the world to 
return home safely at the end of each day. We emphasize the 
importance of fostering safe driving behaviors while driving 
for work as well as during leisure time, and we provide both 
tools and education to our drivers through our “SAFE FLEET” 
initiative. A key area of focus is prevention of road safety 
crashes through the advanced use of available technology. 
Telematics programs are available to drivers in Israel, Japan, 
Mexico, Portugal, and the United States. We also operate a 
Virtual Risk Manager (VRM) fleet safety management system 
to capture data and analyze driver risk levels in the United 
States and Canada including several European countries such 
as France, the UK, Italy and Spain.
Our commitment to road safety extends to advancing road 
safety not only with our internal driver population, but also 
within the communities in which we operate. In 2018, our 
partnership with AIP Foundation on the Helmets for Kids 
program celebrated seven years of providing life-saving road 
safety knowledge and skills to vulnerable road users in low- 
and middle-income countries such as Vietnam.
Our Performance
In 2018, there were two fleet motor vehicle fatalities, which 
occurred in July and August respectively within our Janssen 
Americas sales force. While no systemic deviations from our 
SAFE FLEET program were identified, we continue to elevate 
the importance of road safety across our entire employee 
population. With over 30,000 company-owned, leased and car 
allowance vehicles driven by Johnson & Johnson employees 
under our SAFE FLEET program, driving safety is taken very 
seriously. In addition to reinforcing the measures put in place 
to reduce risks of driving through our SAFE FLEET initiative, 
we extended safe driving tips to our employees through our  
Safety All Day, Every Day website.Global Safety Performance GRI 403-2
2018 2017 2016
Lost Workday Case rate* 0.08 0.08 0.08
Total Recordable Injury rate 0.41 0.36 0.44
Serious Injury and Illness  
Case rate0.05 0.05 0.05
Number of fatalities 2 0 1
Crashes Per Million Miles 
(CPMM) rate**5.81 5.94 6.03
Injuries Per Million Miles 
(IPMM) rate**0.07 0.07 0.08Safety Performance by Region
2018 2017 2016
Lost Workday Case rate*
   Asia Pacific 0.05 0.04 0.06
   Europe, Middle East  
   & Africa0.05 0.04 0.05
   Latin America 0.11 0.03 0.04
   North America 0.10 0.14 0.13
Total Recordable Injury rate
   Asia Pacific 0.17 0.12 0.17
   Europe, Middle East  
   & Africa0.29 0.26 0.39
   Latin America 0.43 0.31 0.44
   North America 0.57 0.56 0.59
Serious Injury and Illness Case rate
   Asia Pacific 0.01 0.03 0.03
   Europe, Middle East  
   & Africa0.02 0.02 0.02
   Latin America 0.01 0.03 0.03
   North America 0.09 0.10 0.08* “Lost days” are calendar days counted beginning the day after an 
incident has taken place.
** CPMM and IPMM rates are based on SAFE FLEET data. Rate 
calculation methodology uses both actual and estimated data on miles 
driven. We collect SAFE FLEET data on employees who drive  
company-owned or -leased, and personally owned vehicles for 
Company business. Employees in the latter category are those who: 
1) drive for Company business as a “regular part” of their job, and 2) 
receive a car allowance to purchase their own vehicle, and/or are 
reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance, insurance 
and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep.2018 Health for Humanity Report 81
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Championing Health & Wellness
J&J-4 (GRI 103)
Our investment in employee health and wellbeing is built on our 
conviction that advancing health for humanity starts with advancing 
the health of our own people so that they can be at their personal 
best every day. Our commitment, led by our Global Health Services 
Vice President, includes the following elements:
• Training employees in the principles of ENERGY FOR 
PERFORMANCE, a training program developed by the  
Johnson & Johnson Human Performance Institute. 
• Supporting healthy choices and healthier lives through 
our HealthForce 2020 campaign, including ENERGY FOR 
PERFORMANCE, HEALTHY & ME and Healthy Eating, Healthy 
Movement, and Healthy Mind.
• Providing medical care with on-site clinics staffed with 
healthcare professionals.
• Creating healthy work environments designed to promote healthy 
lifestyles at work, including our Workplace Innovation program.
• Building or renovating offices and sites based on green building 
principles.
Healthy Workforce Program
We created an internal campaign, HealthForce 2020, to engage all 
employees and business leaders in achieving our Enterprise goals 
in support of becoming the healthiest workforce. This integrated, 
Company-wide program continually highlights areas we’re making 
changes around our workplace to help make the healthy choice the 
easy choice. We continue to improve our sites with offerings like free 
fruit, healthier food options, healthy beverages, access to movement 
opportunities, and convenient resources to keep us connected to our 
health. We encourage walking meetings and energy breaks, and with 
ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE training, we’re working to expand our 
energy and be our best, at work and at home.
These initiatives and resources support our focus on three core 
health pillars—Healthy Eating, Healthy Movement and Healthy 
Mind—deploying educational resources, digital tools, assessments, training, equipment and dedicated spaces, as well as support 
services. We continue to roll out policies to support HealthForce 
2020 across our global organization. One example is our Global 
Healthy Mind Policy, which outlines the expected approaches and 
resources/programs required to support mental wellbeing. Further, 
we’ve established programs designed to raise awareness of mental 
wellbeing in the workplace, and provide a robust set of resources 
and support to employees.
A 2018 analysis of human resources data showed an association 
between ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE training and positive 
employee performance outcomes. Additionally, ENERGY FOR 
PERFORMANCE course graduates gave higher scores in response 
to questions on “work life balance,” “Johnson & Johnson supports 
a healthy lifestyle” and “a great place to work” in our workplace 
surveys. To provide continuous learning in energy management for 
our employees who have completed ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE, 
we introduced a new one-day training called “Reignited” to enable 
ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE course graduates to discover new 
strategies to help them be at their best when it counts. We are 
encouraged with the uptake around the world by our employees 
seeking to reignite the power of this program.“ With the 75th anniversary of Our Credo, we took 
the opportunity to reinforce our commitment by 
adding the acknowledgement that we must support the 
health and wellbeing of our employees. For us, having a 
healthy workforce means helping employees, families 
and communities live well across their whole lives—
spiritual, mental, emotional, physical and financial—
enabling an engaged, purpose-driven workforce. ”
               Jennifer Bruno, Vice President, Global Health Services, 
               Johnson & Johnson        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress
50,200 employees completed 
ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE 
training. 
96,753 employees engaged in health 
and wellbeing via the use of digital 
health tools since 2016.
117 ,132 and 121,446 employees 
provided access to 70% implemented 
healthy eating and healthy movement 
cultures, respectively.
 
 View Scorecard
5B
steps collectively logged during the  
30-day global activity challenge. 
Joining together from around the 
world, our employees increased their 
movement by 22%.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 82
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
We continue to work toward our goal of 
connecting 100,000 employees to our 
digital platform, HEALTHY & ME. In May 
2018, participants, including spouses and 
partners, engaged in our Wander the 
Wonders global activity challenge. With 
teams of up to eight, employees set out 
on a 30-day virtual journey via HEALTHY 
& ME to explore eight new wonders of 
the world simply by moving. The more 
employees moved, the further they went 
on their journey around the world to new 
wonders and a healthier self.
Workplace Innovation
We maintain workspaces designed to 
promote healthy lifestyles, employee 
engagement and collaborative working. 
Our Workplace Innovation Program, 
established in 2010, helps us better design 
our environments to support workplace 
activity, create shared and “unassigned” 
work space for greater flexibility, offer 
healthy working environments, enhance 
employees’ working experience, and 
inspire an innovative and engaged work 
culture. Our workplaces incorporate 
elements that support physical and 
emotional health, such as on-site fitness 
centers, first aid rooms, outdoor activity 
areas, nurture and faith rooms, rooms 
for counseling and employee assistance, 
and child development centers. We also 
adopt green building design principles in 
planning or renovating our workplaces 
to further enhance the health, safety, 
wellbeing and productivity of our people.
In Bogota, Colombia, in 2018, we took the 
opportunity to completely transform our 
office space as we consolidated our offices HEALTHY & ME digital 
health platform 
HEALTHY & ME is available to 
approximately 97% of our employee 
population in 72 countries and in 16 
languages, and to spouses and partners 
in 41 countries. Users of the app can 
track their sleep, food intake and steps. 
Employees can also use the app to 
access personalized health and fitness 
programs or connect with other health-
minded colleagues.Workplace Wellness, 
Innovation and High 
Performance 
We continue to increase the number of 
Johnson & Johnson offices that score 
as “high performing” in the Leesman® 
Workplace Effectiveness Index, a survey 
that assesses 21 dimensions of how 
our workplace supports our people. In 
2018, 34 Johnson & Johnson offices 
achieved the “high performing” score. 
We correlate workplace innovation to 
employee performance. Since 2010, we 
have seen an improvement of 11.47% 
in employee satisfaction as a result of 
workplace innovation projects.Even healthier in 2019 – new 
benefit for all employees 
In 2018, we announced a new global 
employee exercise reimbursement 
program, available to all full- and part-
time employees in 2019, following the 
U.S. launch in October 2018. Upon proof 
of use, we will provide a reimbursement 
of up to $400 a year to support the 
cost of fitness center membership fees 
or classes, personal training sessions, 
organized races and more. Employees 
can enjoy this benefit in addition to our 
on-site fitness centers, helping each of 
us do more of what we enjoy and stay 
active at our convenience. This benefit 
is easily accessible through HEALTHY & 
ME; digital access makes providing proof 
of usage easy with features like “checking 
in” at your local fitness center.11
workplace projects, improving 
workplace environments for more 
than 5,000 employees in more 
than 10 countries in 2018
69
workplace innovation projects 
completed since 2010
52
Johnson & Johnson buildings 
are LEED-certified, totaling 7 .9 
million square feet, or 12.6% of all 
building space
into one location for all our local functions. 
For more than 800 employees, the change 
offered a new level of comfort, designed to 
provide the optimum workplace experience 
aligned with the science of wellbeing. The 
program delivered variety and choice with 
natural daylight, private and quiet options, 
sit/stand desks, decompression massage 
chairs, low-impact exercise spaces and 
many more elements that encourage both 
physical and mental health. In addition to 
positive feedback from managers and staff, 
the project achieved a score of 82.3 on the 
Leesman® Workplace Effectiveness Index, 
joining several other Johnson & Johnson 
locations achieving a “high performing” 
workplace rating.Healthcare Clinics 
We maintain 122 fully staffed on-site 
healthcare clinics in more than 35 
countries across all regions of our 
business. We are continuously improving 
and expanding these facilities to provide 
the best care for our employees.2018 Health for Humanity Report 83
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Responsible business practices serve as the foundation of our 
Company’s success and are imperative to protecting the broader 
healthcare system and the communities in which we live and work. 
We nurture a culture of ethical leadership and integrity in our diverse, 
skilled workforce committed to serving all those who count on us to 
provide high-quality, safe and reliable products. Whether we are seeking 
to protect the data and privacy of our patients and consumers, being 
transparent about our business activities, engaging with suppliers 
or assessing options for safe, ethical and patient-centered decision 
making, we seek to sustain the trust earned over the course of more 
than 130 years of business operations.
Key Achievements in 2018
• Co-led development of connect4children (c4c), a project to create a 
pan-European clinical trial network by 2024 to facilitate the conduct 
of pediatric clinical trials in the EU.
• Advanced to “Trendsetter” status on the Center for Political 
Accountability’s CPA-Zicklin Index, which the organization deems as 
those companies most transparent.
• Enrolled 61% of top-spend suppliers in our Sustainable Procurement 
Program.
Areas of Opportunity
• Advance our holistic approach to ongoing human rights due diligence 
process by conducting an enterprise-level mapping of salient human 
rights issues. 
• Integrate environmental, social and governance measures into the 
update of our Enterprise Risk Management framework.Responsible Business Practices
2018 Health for Humanity Report 84
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Product Quality, Safety & Reliability
We are committed to upholding product quality, safety 
and reliability (PQSR) in line with Our Credo values and in 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations in countries 
where we operate. We partner with healthcare authorities, 
government agencies and industry and advocacy groups on 
matters relating to PQSR to continue raising the bar across 
the healthcare industry. Our approach is founded on:
• Adhering to Johnson & Johnson quality and safety 
standards that apply to all operations globally; 
• Focusing on quality and safety at each phase of the 
product lifecycle; 
• Driving continuous improvement and innovation;
• Ensuring supply chain integrity for brand protection; and 
• Maintaining a proactive quality and safety excellence 
culture throughout the Enterprise.
Millions of patients, consumers and healthcare professionals 
around the world place their trust in Johnson & Johnson 
products. They expect our medicines, medical devices and 
personal care products to be of the highest standards in 
quality, safety and reliability. Our commitment to quality, 
safety and reliability is the foundation for everything we do.2018 Health for Humanity Report 85
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Quality Management Framework 
GRI 416-2, J&J-9 (103)
Quality is a fundamental value of our products.  
We believe our patients and consumers deserve consistent, 
reliable and high quality every time they use or experience 
a Johnson & Johnson product. We work hard to make this 
happen by instilling and maintaining a proactive quality 
excellence culture throughout the Enterprise.
The focus on quality starts at the top with our Chairman & 
CEO and our Executive Committee. They, along with the 
Chief Compliance Officer and the Chief Quality Officer, 
advocate that all employees must contribute to our 
enterprise-wide Quality and Compliance Core Objective 
established by the Johnson & Johnson Board of Directors. It is the responsibility of every employee to adhere to the 
principles set forth in this enterprise-wide Core Objective, 
and such principles are embedded in our evaluation and 
compensation processes.
Led by the Chief Quality Officer, our global Quality & 
Compliance (Q&C) organization, functionally independent 
from commercial interests, has harmonized quality 
management by ensuring consistent implementation of 
quality systems across our Johnson & Johnson Family of 
Companies. Q&C has oversight of quality and regulatory 
compliance across the Enterprise. Q&C leadership 
establishes the enterprise-wide Johnson & Johnson Quality 
Policy and Quality Standards. At our operating companies, 
the scope of Q&C responsibilities includes quality 
management activities at all stages of a product lifecycle—
from R&D, to manufacturing and commercialization. Our 
R&D and manufacturing sites have designated Quality heads 
to establish, implement and maintain quality systems at our 
sites and ensure quality regulatory compliance.
Our quality management approach is based on the following 
proactive measures that help ensure end-to-end quality 
excellence:
• Adherence to Johnson & Johnson quality standards and 
policies;
• Quality risk management principles;
• Compliance monitoring through audits and inspections;
• Continuous improvement;
• Ongoing and consistent enhancement of talent and 
capabilities through training and education.
In 2018, we optimized our Global Quality Services 
organization to more effectively and efficiently manage 
and govern the Johnson & Johnson Quality Standards and 
to provide Quality services across our three segments. The 
Quality Services organization harnesses the expertise within 
our various companies, which then provide that expertise 
as services to all companies across the Enterprise, thus reinforcing the benefit of our size and diversity of experiences 
and expertise.
Quality Policy and Standards
Our Quality Policy and Quality Standards define the 
requirements that our operating companies across  
Johnson & Johnson must achieve to design, make and 
deliver our products, and if needed, take actions to correct 
or recall products in the market. They provide a common 
foundation for quality systems across the Johnson & Johnson 
Family of Companies. The requirements are based on 
national and international standards such as current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs), International Organization 
for Standardization (ISO) series, and Johnson & Johnson best 
practices. These Quality Standards are put in place worldwide 
to help assure the quality of our products for our customers 
and to assure the operation of our businesses in compliance 
with regulations.
Compliance Monitoring
We have established a closed-loop, independent audit 
approach to help ensure our facilities and external 
manufacturing sites operate in compliance with our internal 
Johnson & Johnson Quality Standards, as well as global health 
authority requirements. Our Quality Audit Program applies 
to all Johnson & Johnson facilities that manufacture, store or 
distribute product. It also applies to external manufacturers 
that provide materials, products and services to our 
businesses. It is through this Quality Audit Program that we 
monitor, assess and identify opportunities to continuously 
improve the effectiveness of our quality systems.
In addition to our monitoring programs, there is a 
Management Review process that is built into the quality 
system of each operating company, mandating its executive 
management to review the effectiveness of the elements 
of the quality system, and to require improvements where 
necessary. These Management Reviews are conducted every 
six months.“ As it states in Our Credo, everything we do 
must be of high quality. It’s our first responsibility 
to more than a billion people around the world 
who use and trust Johnson & Johnson products. 
Every employee of our Company proudly accepts 
this responsibility every day. Using our deep 
expertise and looking beyond our own Company 
for best practices, we have developed and 
implemented benchmark processes in quality, 
compliance and safety to improve outcomes for 
patients, consumers and customers at some of the 
most sensitive and important moments of their 
lives. Building on our strong reputation for quality, 
we are prepared to meet ever-rising expectations 
and are investing in new technology and solutions 
to ensure a reliable supply of safe and effective 
products when and where they are needed. ”
               Kathy Wengel, Executive Vice President & Chief                 
               Global Supply Chain Officer, Johnson & Johnson
2018 Health for Humanity Report 86
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Continuous Improvement
We proactively monitor and evaluate our systems, 
standards, industry landscape and regulatory environment, 
incorporating changes where necessary to drive continuous 
improvement. Further, when appropriate, sites found to 
require improvements in their operation develop corrective 
action plans to systematically improve their quality systems 
and to prevent a recurrence of any deficiencies. Such 
ongoing proactivity helps us “self-detect” and “self-correct” 
potential issues to ensure compliance with regulatory 
requirements. Results, status and progress are all reported 
to business leaders and the Johnson & Johnson Family of 
Companies’ governing bodies to help them support their 
sites’ efforts to achieve compliance in a timely manner. 
Regular updates on this topic are provided by the Johnson & 
Johnson Chief Quality Officer to the Regulatory Compliance 
Committee of the Board of Directors.
Product Recall
As required by the Quality Standards, each operating 
company has a formal Quality Review Board (QRB), which 
convenes when necessary to evaluate concerns with the 
quality of product in the market. The QRBs consist of leaders from Q&C, Medical Affairs, Medical Safety and Regulatory 
Affairs. The QRBs decide, independently of commercial 
considerations, whether actions need to be taken to correct 
or recall a product in the market. Patient and consumer safety 
supersede any other factor in this decision making.
Quality Risk Management
Risk management requirements are part of the Johnson 
& Johnson Quality Policy. They require that quality risks 
throughout the product lifecycles be identified, assessed, and 
mitigated or minimized. In addition to mandatory product 
risk management principles, we developed a proprietary risk 
mapping tool to identify, assess and mitigate risks across the 
entire manufacturing value stream. Based on a comprehensive 
data-driven methodology, the tool helps identify opportunities 
for strengthening quality controls at every phase of a product 
lifecycle, thus enabling continuous process improvement and 
proactive quality control.
Training and Education
Continuous improvement of the skills and capabilities 
of our employees is essential in ensuring personnel have 
the competence needed to perform their responsibilities 
within health authority regulated activities. All applicable 
employees receive extensive trainings on their responsibilities 
under the Quality System. Our Quality Training Academy 
is a centralized platform for our Quality employees to 
access training and development opportunities. In addition 
to mandatory trainings, we offer several learning and 
professional development courses.
We apply the same training and education philosophy to 
our work with suppliers. Through our Supplier Quality 
Academy, we provide training to suppliers and supplier-
facing Johnson & Johnson employees to build and strengthen 
strategic competencies that impact the overall quality and performance of the end-to-end supply chain. Over years, we 
have identified many best practices that improve the quality 
of our products and processes at our sites. The Supplier 
Quality Academy enables us to share those learnings with 
our suppliers and external manufacturers. The platform 
offers several courses delivered through a variety of training 
methods—from face-to-face instructor-led trainings to virtual 
instructor-led conferencing and self-led online modules.
Integration of New Acquisitions
Patient and customer safety and product quality are 
paramount considerations in our approach to integrating 
new acquisitions. We have a well-defined process in place to 
ensure that when a new company joins our Johnson & Johnson 
Family of Companies, we take prompt measures to align that 
company’s quality system to our Johnson & Johnson Quality 
System framework. Our Quality teams participate in the due 
diligence activities during the acquisition process, and conduct 
detailed risk assessments of quality systems and processes. 
The risks are prioritized, and action plans are developed to 
ensure compliance with our internal Quality Policy and Quality 
Standards.
Proactive Compliance: Improving Quality, 
Increasing Speed to Market
Industry and regulators continue to strive to improve product 
quality and patient experience while increasing speed to 179
independent audits completed in 2018 at our 
internal sites and 
237 
independent audits at our external manufacturing 
sites; the majority resulted in no critical findings 2018 Health for Humanity Report 87
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
market—getting high-quality products to patients and customers sooner. To this end, Johnson & Johnson is participating in two 
pilots with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA): 
Software as a Medical Device 
Precertification Pilot 
Since 2017, Johnson & Johnson, one out of nine selected 
participants, has been engaging with the FDA to develop 
a precertification program for non-embedded software 
devices. The purpose of this program is to assess 
whether a company consistently and reliably engages in 
high-quality software design and testing (validation)  
and ongoing maintenance of its software products.  
Johnson & Johnson’s participation helped to shape a new 
Digital Health regulatory framework that will increase 
product speed to market at a lower cost.
Case for Quality Voluntary 
Improvement Program Pilot 
Johnson & Johnson is participating in the FDA Case 
for Quality Voluntary Improvement Program pilot 
which utilizes a Capability Maturity Model Integration 
(CMMI) model to assess an organization’s quality 
processes. CMMI model provides guidance for 
improving processes that meet the business goal of an 
organization and is used as a framework for appraising 
business processes and quality system maturity of an 
organization. Through this pilot program the FDA  
hopes to accelerate new product submissions.  
Johnson & Johnson is currently working on three 
launch sites for CMMI assessments.“ Johnson & Johnson is synonymous with Quality & Innovation, and through the implementation and use of the 
tools provided from the Maturity assessment our Quality System has improved exponentially. It provides a systematic 
approach to deal and improve People Behavior, Equipment, Quality, Health & Safety. In particular, the Change 
Management Protocol and Focus on Customer segments had a huge impact on driving the quality of our products, our 
system and employee interaction. We are sure that with continual assessment and innovation we can build and grow 
our company in balance with our quality management system, thus providing a product of high quality and on time to 
Johnson & Johnson. ” 
Bronwyn Coghlan, Quality Assurance Manager, VVF Life Sciences South Africa, commenting on Johnson & Johnson’s Maturity Assessment  
“ We found great value in getting a better understanding of the processes; but more importantly a deep 
understanding of the purpose for the Critical to Quality (CTQ) features. As result measuring equipment was 
improved and it definitely helps to have a much more realistic picture of the process output. Initiatives like these 
are appreciated especially when executed in conjunction with the customer, because the relationship between both 
parties gets as robust as the process.” 
Christian Sterling, Quality Assurance Manager, Precision Concepts, Costa Rica 
“ Initiatives like Technical Assessment and Micro Risk Assessment proposed by Johnson & Johnson are evaluated 
by Interfill as a manifestation of partnership. This way of collaboration promotes open discussion and information 
exchange. This is a new experience for us, and the knowledge from the assessments helped in the microbiological 
production area for hygienic design of equipment, providing new tools to analyze efficiency of current processes and 
identify fields of possible improvements. Such workshops help us in a constantly growing production culture and staff 
involvement. ”Elena Zagortseva, Quality Manager, Interfill, RussiaSource Quality Proactive Tools Testimonials 2018 Health for Humanity Report 88
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Product Quality Indicators GRI 416-22018 2017 2016
Number of regulatory inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites by worldwide health authorities 619 557 505
    Percentage of inspections that resulted in zero observations 78% 71% Not Reported
Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites 24 63 45
    Percentage of inspections that resulted in zero observations 75% 83% Not Reported
    Average number of observations per FDA inspection 0.6 0.7 Not Reported
Number of independent audits of Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure compliance with Quality Policy & Standard 179 179 179
Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites to ensure compliance with Quality Policy & Standards 237 Not Reported Not Reported
Number of FDA warning letters issued, total for enterprise 0 0 Not Reported
Number of FDA warning letters issued, by business segment
    Pharmaceutical 0 0 Not Reported
    Medical Devices 0 0 Not Reported
    Consumer 0 0 Not Reported
Global product recall rate* 0.056% 0.133% Not Reported
* Product recall rate is defined as number of lots removed from mark et per total globally manufactured, based on all field actions that are removals.Our Performance2018 Health for Humanity Report 89
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Putting Patient Safety First
At Johnson & Johnson, we recognize our fundamental 
responsibility is to provide patients, consumers and healthcare 
providers with products that are as effective and safe as 
possible. We take an evidence- and science-based, ethics- and 
values-driven approach to medical safety, putting patient and 
consumer wellbeing first and foremost in our decision making 
and actions, with an emphasis on transparency.
The Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO) is an internal 
global team of medical and scientific professionals, including 
safety experts, from all three segments of Johnson & Johnson: 
Consumer, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices. Functionally 
independent from commercial and development portfolio 
interests, Johnson & Johnson’s OCMO focuses on the safety of 
our products through people-driven processes, initiatives and 
policies that are reinforced by a single medical safety standard, 
to which all our products are held.
Hear from Johnson & Johnson Chief Medical Officer Joanne 
Waldstreicher, M.D., on what makes the OCMO’s novel 
approach to medical safety different:
Proactive Safety Monitoring
Objective and proactive safety monitoring and evaluation 
is built into every stage of our product’s lifecycle—from 
development to post-launch.
At the development stage, we have formal processes 
involving committees of experts to provide governance and 
advisement. This includes our First-in-Human Committee 
responsible for reviewing all safety data before our novel Scientific Excellence, 
Bioethics and Values-Driven 
Decision-Making
products are used in people, and our Development 
Committees to assure that products will fill critical unmet 
healthcare needs. Day-to-day safety decisions are made 
by multi-disciplinary Safety management teams, and more 
complex decisions are managed by segment Medical Safety 
Councils, which are chaired by the Chief Medical Officer 
responsible for each sector. The Johnson & Johnson Medical 
Safety Council, chaired by the Johnson & Johnson Chief 
Medical Officer, advises as needed, and sets standards and 
policies related to medical safety.
We also have processes in place that outline the ethical 
treatment of trial participants and how to protect their health 
and safety, as well as an ethical code for the conduct of R&D.
After commercialization, we continue active surveillance 
to monitor for safety signals. We conduct post-marketing 
studies using real-world data (RWD), continuously review 
potential adverse event (safety) information, and use 
advanced technologies to help us respond rapidly and 
appropriately to issues arising, in close partnership with 
regulatory authorities and stakeholders.
Read more about our approach to proactive safety 
monitoring here.
Championing eye health and safety
In 2018, Johnson & Johnson Vision joined the Health Care 
Alliance for Patient Safety as a Leadership and Charter 
member alongside the American Optometric Association 
to advocate for solutions to advance eye health, promote 
patient safety, and elevate the doctor-patient relationship.
Expanding clinical access for veterans
In 2018, we finalized a three-year agreement with the U.S. 
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to offer more veterans 
access to our clinical trials and pipeline therapies as well  
as help VA physicians stay current with the latest  
scientific advances. Statement on Conducting 
Clinical Trials
Download
Policy on Our Ethical Code 
for the Conduct of Research 
and Development
Download
“ We’re proud to join the Health Care Alliance 
for Patient Safety to promote key eye health 
issues and provide patients with the latest 
information they need to safeguard their health. 
Through the Alliance, we hope to bring attention 
to the untreated and, in some cases, undiagnosed 
vision conditions affecting millions of Americans 
today while also ensuring that eye health is a 
priority in our national health agenda. ”
               Peter Menziuso, President, North America,  
               Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 90
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
The VA’s 1,000 outpatient sites and 170 Medical Centers 
across the United States serve about nine million veterans, a 
patient population significantly impacted by diseases such as 
depression and cancer, which are important research areas of 
focus for Johnson & Johnson.
The power of real-world data to enhance safety
We believe in the collective power of real-world 
observational data to complement clinical trial findings, and 
in sharing our insights to improve health outcomes.
To leverage the power of big data and analytics, we launched 
an open science collaborative with New York's Columbia 
University called the Observational Health Data Sciences and 
Informatics (OHDSI). OHDSI is a multi-stakeholder and multi-
disciplinary open community of researchers working together 
to generate reliable evidence from observational data to 
promote better health decisions and better care. All findings, 
methodologies, analysis code and related software tools are 
shared publicly and published with free access to advance 
public health.
The OHDSI community comprises 60+ databases 
representing more than 1.2 billion patients in 20+ countries.
Leveraging big data to create a more transparent model 
for real-world data
Johnson & Johnson is also breaking new ground in the 
analysis of large RWD sets. In 2018, we analyzed data of 
more than 700,000 adults with type 2 diabetes across four 
large databases to evaluate comparative effects of seven 
diabetes medications or classes of medications on the risk of 
amputation and hospitalization for heart failure. The study, 
OBSERVE-4D, is the largest and most comprehensive real-
world observational study to date, and established a new 
standard for quickly and appropriately translating large-scale 
RWD into evidence to complement evidence from clinical 
trials in an open and transparent manner.
Read more about how we are using RWD to improve health outcomes.
Supporting enhanced safety surveillance
Monitoring the safety of its regulated products is a major part 
of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) mission to 
protect public health. Sentinel is the FDA’s national electronic 
system, which has transformed the way researchers monitor 
the safety of FDA-regulated medical products, including 
drugs, vaccines, biologics and medical devices. The FDA is 
currently exploring further research to enable increasingly 
proactive safety surveillance. In line with our commitment 
to collaborative development of innovative approaches to 
analyzing large volumes of safety data, we are supportive of 
this next phase of Sentinel. In December 2018, we shared our 
learnings and insights at an FDA-hosted multi-stakeholder 
open discussion to review methodologies and policies for 
enhancing proactive safety signal detection.
Enhancing the safety of pediatric medicine for children
Developing safe and effective medicines, devices and 
consumer products that enable future generations to reach 
their full potential requires child-centered innovation. The 
Child Health Innovation Leadership Department (CHILD) is 
Johnson & Johnson’s dedicated team working to understand 
the safety and effectiveness of our medicines in children, and to accelerate policies driven by the needs of our 
youngest patients.
In 2018, we co-led the development of connect4children 
(c4c), a six-year project to create a pan-European clinical 
trial network by 2024 to facilitate the conduct of pediatric 
clinical trials in the European Union. In collaboration with the 
Critical Path Institute (C-Path), we also co-led the creation of 
the Institute for Advanced Clinical Trials for Children (I-ACT 
for Children), an independent nonprofit organization that 
works collaboratively with parents, patients, investigators, 
foundations, regulators, other government agencies, 
biopharmaceutical sponsors and children’s networks to 
catalyze improvements in the quality and timely completion 
of global pediatric studies.
Medical safety driven by the needs of the people 
who use our products
Every action and decision we undertake is done through the 
lens of the patients and consumers who use our products 
every day. From patient-focused drug development, to using 
real-world evidence (RWE) most effectively to inform more 
personalized, safer healthcare decisions, to integrating the 
patient voice in safety management, we work to engage “ Giving cancer patients within the VA greater 
access to transformational clinical trials allows 
them to stay in the healthcare system most 
familiar to them and with the physicians who 
know them best. ”
               Craig Tendler, Vice President, Oncology Clinical                 
               Development and Global Medical Affairs, 
               Janssen Research & Development, LLC“ Children must have access to innovative 
medical therapies that have been developed with 
the same degree of urgency and rigor as those for 
adults. With connect4children in Europe joining 
in this effort, complementing work underway 
with I-ACT for Children in the United States, we 
will be able to accelerate the availability of high-
quality scientific data that can improve the safe 
and effective use of therapies in children. ”
               Joanne Waldstreicher, MD, Chief Medical  
               Officer, Johnson & Johnson
2018 Health for Humanity Report 91
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
patients and consumers throughout the entire lifecycle of our 
products.
We also actively work with regulators to advance the use 
of patient-focused approaches to assess the benefit-risk 
balance of treatments. In 2018, we led the assessment 
and application of a novel methodology that captures 
quantitatively how patients evaluate benefit-risk tradeoffs, 
and were one of the first companies to successfully integrate 
patient preference assessments within clinical trials.
Collaborating to advance innovation in medical devices
Building on our work with the National Evaluation System  
for Health Technologies Coordinating Center (NESTcc),  
Johnson & Johnson is participating in five first-round test 
cases to lead the industry in gauging the feasibility of 
leveraging the NESTcc network to advance the use of RWE 
for medical device evaluation and regulatory decision making 
for better patient outcomes and care.
Proactively enhancing medical devices safety in  
operating rooms
In 2018, we collaborated with Ariadne Labs, a joint center 
between Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, to promote and 
enhance training that emphasizes both the technical aspects 
of using a new surgical device and nontechnical aspects 
like communication, teamwork and decision making. This 
partnership created a device briefing tool (DBT) with the goal 
of increasing clinician confidence in using a new device and 
improving teamwork and communications in the operating 
room. After a successful 2018 pilot program in Thailand, 
Johnson & Johnson signed a 2.5-year agreement with 
Ariadne Labs to scale up and disseminate the WHO Surgical 
Safety Checklist and the DBT at key hospitals in Singapore, 
with the ultimate aim of global deployment.
Consumer Products Ingredient Safety
We always use high-quality ingredients. We manufacture our 
products using pharmaceutical standards, which are higher 
than those mandated for personal care products or food. 
Additionally, we constantly look for purer versions of our 
ingredients and regularly incorporate them into our products. 
We continuously evaluate ingredients used in our products 
in response to consumer preferences, advances in science 
and our own scientific research. Our Consumer business 
segment leads consumer products ingredient safety through 
our Johnson & Johnson Global Ingredient Steering Committee, 
ensuring that ingredients are appropriately considered, using 
internal process assessments and external feedback. For more 
information, see our Safety & Care Commitment website.
Talc safety
At the end of 2018, we published a statement on our website 
and in the press to reassure our consumers that JOHNSON’S 
Baby Powder is safe, as a response to concerns relating 
to the presence of asbestos allegedly found in talc some 
years ago. Our statement confirms that the talc in our baby 
powder is pure, safe, pharmaceutical-grade talc and that 
we have always acted with transparency with the FDA and 
other regulators, giving full access to our testing results. We 
confirmed that there is overwhelming scientific evidence that 
our talc is safe and beneficial to use. Our website,  www.factsabouttalc.com includes independent studies from 
leading universities, research from medical journals and third-
party opinions confirming that our talc is safe.
Improved transparency for baby products
We’ve always been proud of the safety and gentleness of our 
baby products, but we also heard parents’ requests for fewer 
ingredients. In response to changing parent preferences, in 
2018, we redesigned and began phased rollout globally of 
our JOHNSON’S Baby washes, lotions and haircare products, 
and reduced the number of ingredients in our portfolio by 
more than 50%, disclosing 100% of the ingredients in these 
products—including those found in fragrances.
While JOHNSON’S Baby products have been free from 
parabens, phthalates, 1,4-dioxane and formaldehyde-
releasing preservatives since 2015, in this recent relaunch 
we removed dyes and sulfates from the washes, shampoos, 
lotions and creams, making them even gentler. Today, 96% of 
the ingredients in our washes, lotions and haircare products 
are naturally derived.33 “ We believe real-world data will become an 
important part of ongoing safety in healthcare. 
For this to happen, each piece of evidence  
must be transparently understood and evaluated 
in conjunction with all the other evidence that  
is available. ”
               Jesse Berlin, ScD, Vice President and Global                                
               Head, Epidemiology, Office of the Chief Medical                 
               Officer, Johnson & Johnson
“ JOHNSON'S fragrances are designed 
specifically for delicate and sensitive skin, so 
we design products to avoid harsh ingredients 
and well-known fragrance allergens. Our 
baby fragrances have been reviewed by both 
independent groups and safety experts—and 
for the first time are all listed on the JOHNSON’S 
website. ”
               Homer Swei, Director of Product Stewardship,  
               Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 92
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Anti-Counterfeiting & Brand Protection 
J&J-8 (GRI 103)
Our patients, consumers and customers must have  
unequivocal confidence in the quality, safety and authenticity of 
Johnson & Johnson products. The global growth of illicit trade in 
health and personal care products can potentially jeopardize that 
confidence, and represents a potential threat to public health. Illicit 
trade has increased dramatically in recent years for many reasons, 
including globalization, e-commerce growth, technological 
advancements, and the increasing involvement of transnational 
organized crime groups. This growing worldwide trade in 
counterfeit and illicit products puts people’s health at risk and can 
undermine their trust in genuine brands and products.
At Johnson & Johnson we have a strong enterprise-wide anti-
counterfeiting and brand protection strategy to protect our 
customers and patients—and our brand reputation—from the 
impact of illicit trade. Our Global Brand Protection (GBP) team 
coordinates and leads these efforts across the Enterprise. GBP’s 
extensive capabilities reflect our response to various forms of illicit 
trade, including counterfeiting, diversion and tampering.
The fight against illicit trade requires close collaboration and 
coordination across multiple functions and disciplines within 
our Company, as well as partnerships with numerous external 
stakeholders. Internally, GBP works closely with Johnson & 
Johnson Global Security to maintain supply chain security and 
undertake investigations and enforcement actions; with Quality 
& Compliance to capture and respond to suspect incident 
reports; and with the Law Department to handle issues related to 
trademarks and intellectual property. The organization also works 
with other functional and commercial business partners to advise 
on illicit trade risks, and to embed brand protection best practices 
and processes in ongoing operations. Externally, GBP collaborates 
with government, law enforcement agencies, suppliers, academic 
institutions, industry partners and other stakeholders to extend and 
enhance the team’s resources, expertise and ability to effectively 
combat illicit trade.Proactive & Preventive Approach
GBP’s capabilities for responding to various forms of illicit trade—
including counterfeiting, unauthorized diversion and product 
tampering—have matured and improved substantially over recent 
years. While we still invest significantly in our response to any 
reported suspect or confirmed illicit trade incidents, our strategic 
focus has shifted toward developing and deploying more proactive 
and preventive measures. Our ongoing and increasing investments 
in digital authentication technology, targeted market monitoring 
(online and offline), and advanced data and analytics capabilities 
are key enablers of this shift in our strategy.
These efforts include leveraging innovative digital technologies 
to enhance supply chain integrity, safeguard our markets 
(through early detection of the presence of illicit trade), and more 
effectively expose the sources, networks and patterns of illicit 
trade throughout our global markets and channels. In 2018, we 
launched an illicit trade analytics platform, which has significantly 
increased our ability to generate actionable intelligence and 
insights from numerous disparate data sources, both internal and 
external. Because of the increasing risk of counterfeit products 
being distributed online, internet monitoring has also become an 
important strategic focus for GBP.
In addition to developing these innovative technologies, we also 
deploy proven brand protection tools and programs for our at-
risk products across the three business segments. These include 
multi-layered product security features on packaging, ranging 
from overt/low-security to covert/high-security technologies, and 
associated market monitoring programs. Product security features 
work in concert with market monitoring and enable authentication 
of products at key points of the end-to-end supply chain, and 
when a suspect counterfeit product has been identified. Ongoing 
deployment of item-level product serialization and "track and trace" 
technologies by Johnson & Johnson’s Supply Chain Visibility group 
also enhances our ability to detect illicit product that has entered 
our supply chain.Select Collaborations to 
Combat Counterfeiting 
• IACC (International  
Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition), 
Board of Directors
• A-CAPP MSU (Center for  
Anti-Counterfeiting and Product 
Protection at Michigan State 
University), Board of Directors
• ICC/BASCAP/AP (International 
Chamber of Commerce/Business 
Action to Stop Counterfeiting and 
Piracy), Co-Chair Position in China
• ICC/BASCAP/MEA, Chairman of 
Nigeria Working Group
• Rx360 – An International 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Consortium, Steering Committee 
Lead
• PSI/PEI (Pharmaceutical Security 
Institute), Working Group Member
• ASOP (Alliance for Safe Online 
Pharmacies), Member
• QBPC (Quality Brands Protection 
Committee) China, Member
• EAASM (European Alliance for 
Access to Safe Medicines), Member
• Gulf Brand Protection Group, Board 
of Directors2018 Health for Humanity Report 93
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Prior to deploying product security features and brand 
protection programs, GBP conducts extensive risk 
assessments and analysis using a standardized methodology 
to determine the optimal level of security based on known 
risk factors and a product’s safety profile. These risk 
assessment protocols have also been integrated with our new 
product development process to ensure that all new products 
are protected prior to launch.
Awareness & Education
Counterfeiting is a global problem that requires coordinated 
solutions, multi-stakeholder collaboration, and continuous 
awareness raising and education. We are committed to 
collaborating with health authorities, peer manufacturers, 
academic institutions, distributors, retailers, and other key 
players in the health and personal care industry to develop 
comprehensive supply chain best practices, raise awareness 
about risks of counterfeiting, and together mount a strong 
defense and response to illicit traders. In 2018, we engaged 
in 10 external trade groups, alliances, organizations and 
agencies—either in leadership positions or as a member of 
industry working groups.
Awareness and education (A&E) among our employees and 
key internal stakeholders are also an important aspect of 
our overall brand protection strategy. The foundation of our 
A&E program is a set of 10 Safe and Secure Supply Chain 
Best Practices that provide guidance to employees on how to 
employ brand protection controls and safeguards in areas of 
the supply chain where issues may typically arise. Examples 
of best practices instruction include Distributor Compliance, 
Product Returns and Destruction, Transportation 
Security, and Facility Security. Each June, on World 
Anti-Counterfeiting Day, we also remind and inform our 
employees worldwide about how they can help us strengthen 
our defenses and resilience against this growing threat to the 
health and safety of our patients and consumers.In 2018, we trained 803 people (stakeholders) in brand 
protection best practices. Training is typically delivered 
through our Enterprise e-learning platform, but may also be 
conducted in person if we are addressing a key functional 
stakeholder group directly.
Our brand protection training also extends to our suppliers, 
distributors and customers to educate them about the 
risks of illicit trade, how to report any suspect incidents or 
issues, and what actions they can take to guard against the 
introduction of illicit product into the legitimate supply chain. 
This training is typically incorporated into other important 
training programs, such as the Good Warehousing and 
Distribution Practices, and made available to our network 
of suppliers through Johnson & Johnson’s Supplier Quality 
Academy, an e-learning platform accessible to our business 
partners.2018 Health for Humanity Report 94
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Ethics & Transparency
At Johnson & Johnson we believe in conducting our business 
with integrity and earning the trust of the people we serve. 
For us, this means complying with applicable legal, regulatory 
and industry code requirements, and upholding the highest 
standards in every aspect of our business and in every market 
where we operate. Running a responsible business is an 
essential driver of value creation, and our stakeholders  
expect no less of a leading global corporation such as  
Johnson & Johnson. It starts with a culture of ethical 
leadership and integrity delivered by a diverse, skilled 
workforce committed to serving the patients, customers, 
consumers and all others who count on us to provide high-
quality, safe and reliable products, operate with integrity and 
engage in responsible business practices and outcomes.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 95
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Commitment to Ethics & Compliance
GRI 102-17 , 102-25, 205-1, 205-2, 406-1, 412-2, 407 (103), 419 (103)
Our responsibilities to patients, physicians, employees, communities 
and shareholders are set in stone in Our Credo. This is the 
foundation of our values that has guided our business for 75 years.
At Johnson & Johnson, we are committed to maintaining the 
highest level of integrity and ethical culture. We also advocate 
for good corporate principles in the areas of human rights, labor, 
environment, anti-bribery, and anti-corruption in industry codes 
and elsewhere.
Our comprehensive policies, procedures and compliance training 
help our employees and contingent workers navigate the applicable 
laws, regulations and industry codes, as well as our own ethical 
standards.
The Johnson & Johnson Law, Health Care Compliance, Privacy, 
Global Finance and Corporate Internal Audit departments provide 
additional guidance and assurance on conformity with the policies, 
laws and regulations that impact our work.
The Code of Business Conduct (CBC) and Health Care Compliance 
(HCC) policies specifically set forth our Company’s values, which 
apply to all employees worldwide. They list comprehensive ethical 
standards for decisions and actions in every market where we 
operate. The CBC and HCC policies and updates are regularly 
communicated to our people to re-enforce our integrity standards.
We strive to partner with those who demonstrate high ethical 
standards in their business practices.
All Johnson & Johnson employees and certain categories of 
contingent workers are assigned and required to complete the 
CBC training every two years. All required Johnson & Johnson 
employees, including those who interact with healthcare 
professionals or government officials, are annually assigned HCC 
training, which incorporates topics such as anti-bribery/anti-
corruption. The CBC and HCC training courses are available in 27 
and 23 languages respectively.The Johnson & Johnson Credo Hotline offers a secure channel for 
anonymous reporting of suspected violations of our policies.
Compliance Programs
Our best-in-class Global Compliance Programs serve as a roadmap 
for leadership, accountability and ethical business conduct with 
a focus on patients, physicians, employees, communities and 
shareholders, as defined in Our Credo.
Our global compliance program is based on the following 
fundamental elements:
• Well-defined and clearly communicated standards of 
compliance;
• Robust compliance governance framework; 
• Continuous compliance monitoring through internal 
assessments and audits;
• Effective and timely response to detected deviations from 
compliance standards, including developing and following 
through on corrective action plans, with disciplinary actions 
when appropriate;
• Ensuring open lines of communication;
• Ongoing training and education; and
• Proactive risk management.94.32%
of assigned employees and 
86.58%  
of assigned contingent workers 
completed the CBC training
86,000+
employees completed the HCC training
Code of Business Conduct
Download
2018 Health for Humanity Report 96
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Our compliance guidelines and policies meet or exceed legal 
and regulatory requirements in every jurisdiction where we 
operate. This includes industry standards and local codes of 
conduct, such as Advancing Medical Technology Association 
(AdvaMed), Asia Pacific Medical Technology Association 
(APACMED), Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers 
of America (PhRMA) and the European Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Industry Associations (EFPIA). In addition, 
Johnson & Johnson actively participates in the work of 
industry associations, and helps develop industry codes for 
ethical and compliant marketing and selling of products. 
Our Chief Compliance Officer has overall responsibility for 
the management of our healthcare compliance program, 
and reports directly to our Executive Vice President, General 
Counsel, who is a member of the Executive Committee. The 
Chief Compliance Officer also has a direct reporting line to 
the Regulatory Compliance Committee of the Company’s 
Board of Directors.
Each substantial operating company has a designated 
healthcare compliance officer responsible for compliance 
programs. In addition, the Company’s Law Department 
provides direct guidance and training on the Company’s 
policies.
Potential violations arising under our policies or laws and 
regulations are reported internally to senior management 
and, as appropriate, to the Johnson & Johnson Executive 
Committee, the Board of Directors, relevant Committees of 
the Board, and/or the internal and external auditors. When 
public disclosure criteria are met, anticompetitive behavior, 
antitrust claims, product liability claims, and lawsuits that 
cover customer health and safety, labeling or marketing, as 
well as corrective actions and resulting fines and penalties 
are outlined in our 10-Q and 10-K filings. See Note 21 on page 
81 of our 2018 Annual Report.With the complexity of the healthcare environment 
continuing to evolve, our global compliance program is 
focused on strengthening and optimizing core programs and 
processes; elevating our integrated approach to data, metrics 
and analytics; and leveraging the power of technology for all 
components of our global compliance program. Each year 
we conduct risk assessments of our operations to identify 
areas where additional attention or modification to our 
programs may be required. Ongoing improvements are in 
place to keep our compliance programs efficient, effective 
and current with changes in the business environment, our 
diverse stakeholders’ expectations, and the demands of laws, 
regulations and industry standards.
Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption
Johnson & Johnson takes a strong stance against bribery 
consistent with the anti-bribery laws that exist in many 
countries around the world. We strictly prohibit any illegal 
offers that may inappropriately influence a customer. Our 
products are purchased and sold based on quality and 
price. In our policies, we comprehensively cover our anti-
corruption and anti-bribery position, which follows the U.S. 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and 
other applicable local anti-bribery and corruption laws and 
regulations.
Our CBC expressly prohibits bribes, kickbacks, and any other 
illegal payments, whether provided directly or through a third 
party, e.g., a distributor, customs broker or other agents.
Our internal controls at all levels of the organization ensure 
compliance with anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws. We 
audit and refine these internal controls on an ongoing 
basis. Continuous monitoring includes full documentation 
of existing accounting and internal control systems and 
evaluation procedures.Credo Hotline
The Credo Hotline is managed by a third party 
and available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 
in 23 languages. Concerns can be filed both 
electronically on www.credohotline.com or by 
calling a toll-free number (international dialing 
instructions are on the same website).Our policies require that all employees with relevant job 
functions complete anti-bribery and anti-corruption training. 
The training covers the core aspects of our Health Care 
Business Integrity Guide, including charitable contributions, 
donations, gifts, third-party intermediary (e.g., distributors) 
and cross-border interactions. Further, we expect our 
suppliers to embrace high standards of ethical behavior that 
are consistent with our own. Our requirements for suppliers 
are outlined in Johnson & Johnson Responsibility  
Standards for Suppliers.
Ethical Sales & Marketing 
Practices Statement
Download
2018 Health for Humanity Report 97
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
The HCC function conducts compliance monitoring and 
testing of operations at our operating companies on a 
regular basis. The scope and frequency of such monitoring 
is determined based on our risk assessments and local 
conditions.
The HCC function works closely with the Johnson & Johnson 
Corporate Internal Audit and Law Department to investigate 
potential incidents of non-compliance relating to anti-bribery/
anti-corruption. Over 260 operating companies are audited 
by Corporate Internal Audit for compliance with our HCC 
programs (including anti-bribery/anti-corruption) on a three-
year cycle for our higher-risk companies, or a five-plus-year 
cycle for our lower-risk companies. More frequent testing and 
monitoring of select areas of our businesses are conducted 
by the HCC function. Johnson & Johnson uses both internal 
and external criteria, including the Transparency International 
Corruption Perceptions Index, as well as market- and business-
specific risk factors, to determine the risk profile of our 
operating companies and businesses. The scope of audits 
covers a range of commercial activities associated with bribery 
and corruption risk, including sales and distribution, engaging 
healthcare providers and other third parties for services, gifts 
or items of value, tendering, and cross-border interactions.
In addition to the healthcare compliance-related audits, 
Corporate Internal Audit conducts financial audits that serve 
as both a preventive and detective supplemental element 
of our compliance program. Information on these audits is 
included in regular updates to the Regulatory Compliance 
Committee of the Board of Directors. Where audits or 
monitoring activities identify questionable activities, these 
issues are escalated to an internal Triage Committee, 
which determines appropriate action to take, including 
commencement of for-cause investigations.
Grievance Mechanisms
Our Credo Hotline is an integral component of the strong 
compliance culture at Johnson & Johnson. It is an anonymous 
whistle-blowing mechanism that provides a channel for all employees, contingent workers, customers, third-party agencies 
and other partners to report potential violations. They may 
relate to the CBC, other Company policies or the applicable 
laws and regulations in the countries of our operations.
Additionally, anyone can report allegations through other 
methods (by phone or e-mail, etc.) within their local business 
unit or to Corporate Internal Audit, HCC, Law, Security or the 
Human Resources organizations. Our Escalation Procedure 
Policy requires all employees to escalate any violations of our 
policies or applicable laws. Our management teams around 
the globe are reminded annually of the requirements of this 
policy. We act swiftly to review any reported violations of our 
CBC, compliance policies, laws or regulations.
Addressing Non-Compliance and Misconduct
All Credo Hotline reports are routed by our external 
vendor to Corporate Internal Audit (or Human Resources, if 
appropriate). Our internal Triage Committee is comprised 
of HCC, Corporate Internal Audit and the Law Department. 
It reviews the allegations from both the Credo Hotline and 
other channels to determine the appropriate actions. Most 
issues are investigated by or under the direct supervision of 
Law, HCC, Privacy or Corporate Internal Audit. The Human 
Resources department manages any human resources-
related issues.
The specific details of allegations of violation of our policies 
or legal requirements are subject to confidentiality, legal, 
privacy or other restrictions and, therefore, are not publicly 
disclosed. However, general information around the types 
of issues and the annual volume coming into our hotline are 
reflected in the chart to the right. If this information meets 
the criteria for required public disclosure, it is reported 
externally in our public filings.Inquiries and Complaints Brought through the 
Credo Hotline by Category
2018 2017
Human Resources-related 58% 59%
General information questions 13% 12%
Financial-related 11% 10%
Other (privacy, general  
security, EH&S, etc.)10% 11%
Healthcare compliance-related 6% 6%
Quality assurance-related 2% 2%
Compliance-Related Investigations
2018 2017
Compliance allegations 
investigated through Triage 
Committee707 693
Compliance allegations, by category
Healthcare Compliance 46% 54%
Financial 40% 34%
Other (legal, quality, anti-trust, 
product registration, privacy, etc.)14% 12%Our Performance2018 Health for Humanity Report 98
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Upholding Transparency
GRI 415 (103), 415-1, 205 (103), 206 (103)
At Johnson & Johnson, we value transparency as the basis of trust-
building with all those engaged in any way with our business. We 
strive to hold ourselves accountable by providing information about 
how we operate across our operating companies and markets. 
Further, we also recognize and comply with the multiple reporting 
requirements that regulatory bodies governing our three business 
segments define.
Our Mandatory and Voluntary Disclosures
• Financial Disclosures: We report on our financial results and 
other material disclosures as required for a U.S. public company 
by the Securities Exchange Commission and the New York Stock 
Exchange. Our filings are available on our corporate site.
• Citizenship and Sustainability Disclosures: We publish 
an annual Health for Humanity Report in line with leading 
global standards (Global Reporting Initiative, UN Global 
Compact) covering a broad range of non-financial updates and 
performance.
• Environmental Disclosures: In addition to our Health for 
Humanity Report, we disclose to CDP Climate Change, Water 
and Forest frameworks.
• Payments to Healthcare Providers: In the United States, we 
disclose financial information under the Physician Payments 
Sunshine Act. We also voluntarily publish aggregated data 
for our companies covered by Open Payments. In Europe, 
we comply with the European Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Industries and Associations healthcare payments disclosure 
framework with disclosures on the Janssen website. 
Other countries or regions have similar legal or industry 
code disclosure requirements that we have worked to help 
establish—and that we comply with—to help foster transparent 
business practices. For further information on our approach, 
see our statement on Funding for Professional Education and 
to Health Care Professionals.• Clinical Data Transparency: We support the overall principles 
of greater clinical trial data transparency, including registration 
and disclosure of clinical trial results in external registries; 
publication of results in peer-reviewed journals; and sharing 
of clinical study reports and participant-level data from 
clinical trials. Clinical trials conducted around the world by 
our pharmaceutical, medical devices and consumer product 
companies are listed on the U.S. National Institutes of Health’s 
website, www.clinicaltrials.gov, the European Clinical Trial 
Register, and country-specific and regional registries across the 
globe. Learn more in Bioethics section.
• Political Engagement: As a global healthcare company, 
we work with many stakeholders in the markets where we 
operate, and we take a stance on and support certain public 
policies in the United States and in different parts of the world 
as they relate to our core business of advancing health. Our 
stakeholders express interest in knowing what our policy 
positions are and the ways we contribute to advancing those 
policies. We disclose this information annually, including our 
philosophy on political contributions, our strategic priorities 
and our contributions data. Please visit Political Engagement 
for more information.
Pricing Transparency in the United States
We know that in today’s complex healthcare system patients and 
families are increasingly concerned about their ability to access and 
afford medical innovation. These concerns have rightfully led to 
calls for greater transparency into the world of healthcare, including 
prescription medicines.
That is why the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of  
Johnson & Johnson publishes its annual Janssen U.S. Transparency 
Report, which demonstrates our commitment to responsible 
business practices that put patients first—including how we invest 
our resources, price our medicines, and help people who need 
Janssen medicines get access to them. In March 2019, Janssen 
published the 2018 Janssen U.S. Transparency Report. This year we 
share our ideas and perspectives on policy proposals, with the goal 
of building on what is working in our healthcare system while fixing 
what is not. Achieving Trendsetter Status
Johnson & Johnson advanced to 
“Trendsetter” status in 2018 on the Center 
for Political Accountability’s CPA-Zicklin 
Index, which the organization deems as 
those companies most transparent. The 
CPA-Zicklin Index benchmarks the political 
disclosure and accountability policies and 
practices for election-related spending of 
leading U.S. public companies.2018 Health for Humanity Report 99
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
We also detail our plan to include list price and typical patient out-
of-pocket costs in our U.S. pharmaceutical advertising. We issue 
this Report because we believe open dialogue and partnership are 
essential to addressing the challenges in our healthcare system. 
Fundamentally, we believe transparency is a positive step toward a 
more sustainable, results-based health system that delivers greater 
access to care at a more manageable cost.
Tax Transparency
In 1943, we adopted Our Credo, which guides how the  
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies conduct business around 
the world. The third paragraph of Our Credo focuses on our 
community responsibilities as corporate citizens. We take these 
responsibilities very seriously, including paying our fair share of 
taxes, among them corporate income taxes, employment tax, social 
contributions, import and customs duties, and indirect taxes. We 
value and strive for cooperative and transparent relationships with 
taxing authorities, and we support tax policies that encourage 
innovation and growth.
Our commitment to these responsibilities is embodied in our  
Tax Policy Statement.“ Greater transparency is a critical step toward 
giving patients the clarity they need about their 
healthcare options and out-of-pocket costs. In this 
year’s report, we disclose that the average net price 
of our medicines in the U.S declined 6.8% in 2018, 
falling for the second year in a row. At the same 
time, we maintained our significant investment 
in discovering and developing transformational 
medicines for patients facing some of the world’s 
most challenging diseases: our $8.4 billion global 
investment in R&D was 86% more than what we 
spent to market and sell our medicines. ”
               Scott White, Company Group Chairman,  
               North America Pharmaceuticals, Janssen   
               Pharmaceuticals Companies of Johnson & JohnsonNew online resources for 
improved transparency
Many people turn to the Internet for 
information when navigating the process 
of seeking pre-approval access (PAA) to 
investigational medicines. It is essential 
they find an easy-to-understand, trusted 
and reliable source of PAA information. 
With this in mind, our Patient Support 
team has unveiled new materials as well 
as enhancements to the Compassionate 
Use & Pre-Approval Access section of 
Janssen.com. The site now includes an 
array of user-friendly tools and resources, 
the result of extensive patient-focused 
collaboration. To aid patients, consumers, 
healthcare practitioners and other external 
stakeholders, there is a new resource 
tab, which includes a brief video on 
compassionate use, a glossary of PAA 
terms, an infographic that depicts the 
process of making a single patient request 
(SPR), and additional tools.A first in transparency for 
cancer treatment
In 2018, The U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) approved 
ERLEADA (apalutamide) for the 
treatment of patients with prostate 
cancer that has not spread (non-
metastatic) but continues to grow 
despite treatment with hormone 
therapy. This is the first FDA-approved 
treatment for this type of prostate 
cancer. The safety and efficacy of 
ERLEADA was based on a randomized 
clinical trial of 1,207 patients.
ERLEADA is the first participant in 
the FDA’s Clinical Data Summary Pilot 
Program, announced in early 2018, 
created to provide stakeholders with 
more usable information on the clinical 
evidence supporting drug product 
approvals and more transparency into 
the FDA’s decision-making process. 
Information from the clinical summary 
report and the ERLEADA submission is 
now posted to the FDA’s new Clinical 
Data Summary Pilot Program website.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 100
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Bioethics
To address the complex ethical questions arising in the field of 
biological research, science and medicine, our global Johnson & 
Johnson Bioethics Committee (JJBC), led by our Chief Medical 
Officer, serves as an advisory body to our worldwide teams on ethical 
issues. Composed of a diverse group of employees from across the 
business, JJBC assists in ethics-based decision making in line with 
the fundamental principles of bioethics, including beneficence, 
non-maleficence, autonomy and justice, and in accordance with our 
Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and Development. We 
also engage with industry and continue to make a strong contribution 
to the dialogue on current bioethical issues, in particular, clinical trial 
data transparency and access to investigational medicines.
Access to Investigational Medicines
Pre-approval access (PAA) is an overarching term for access to an 
investigational medicine outside of a clinical trial and prior to health 
authority approval. The main pathway for gaining access to Janssen’s 
investigational medicines is for a patient to enroll in a clinical trial. 
For patients with serious or life-threatening illnesses who cannot 
enroll in clinical trials, PAA programs can be considered.
Our commitment to transparent and ethically based decision making 
is illustrated through efforts such as our robust and patient-centered 
development of strategies to make investigational medicines 
available to those in need, as well as our collaboration with the New 
York University School of Medicine to create the Compassionate Use 
Advisory Committee (CompAC). CompAC facilitates the review of 
compassionate use requests by an independent, external body of 
internationally recognized medical experts, bioethicists and patient 
representatives. After a successful pilot that began in 2015, CompAC 
was expanded to include additional investigational medicines in 
development at Janssen. Further, Johnson & Johnson’s commitment 
extends industrywide to support patients, providers and caregivers 
in their efforts to understand potential options available to them. 
The CompAC process has been recognized as a leading practice by 
experts in bioethics.
Our Commitment to Animal Welfare
Some of our R&D processes that deliver immeasurable benefit to 
human health are made possible through rigorous research and testing. Where this research involves animals, we employ every 
method available to safeguard their welfare.
This research is overseen by our Animal Care Council and functional 
councils. Our Policy on the Humane Care and Use of Animals directs 
our operating companies on the ethical and humane treatment of 
animals and promotes the use of non-animal alternatives whenever 
feasible. We have had a Refinement, Reduction and Replacement 
(3Rs) program in place for over 12 years that annually recognizes 
and promotes significant advances and innovative approaches to 
improve the wellbeing of animals in our studies and the development 
of alternative methods. We also partner with the Institute for In Vitro 
Sciences and the Center for Alternatives for Animal Testing to develop 
viable non-animal research alternatives.
In addition, our Policy requires that research protocols involving 
the use of animals are reviewed for approval by the Animal Care 
and Use Committees or Ethical Committees and are compliant with 
appropriate local and regional governmental agencies. It also requires 
all personnel to be appropriately trained, and all Johnson & Johnson 
animal facilities to be accredited by the Association for Assessment 
and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC).
Five Years of Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing
Sharing clinical trial data advances the science that is the foundation 
of medicine and public health by enabling researchers and scientists 
to test new hypotheses and potentially find new treatments and 
cures. Since 2014, Johnson & Johnson has partnered with the Yale 
University School of Medicine and the Yale Open Data Access 
(YODA) Project. The YODA Project serves as an independent, third-
party reviewer of external requests for access to data from clinical 
trials conducted by Johnson & Johnson for our pharmaceuticals, 
medical devices and consumer products—enabling a fair and 
unbiased approach for assessing external research proposals.
Five-year data on the YODA Project were published in Nature’s open 
access journal, Scientific Data, in 2018. The research findings both 
defined best practices for sharing clinical trial data and outlined 
outstanding challenges to further refine how data are shared.Compassionate 
Use & Pre-Approval 
Access Statement
Download
More  
Resources
Webpage of the Office of  
the Chief Medical Officer 
“ By responsibly sharing our data, 
we aim to pave the way for better 
healthcare data-sharing practices 
to improve health outcomes for the 
greatest number of people.”
               Joanne Waldstreicher, MD, Chief  
               Medical Officer, 
               Johnson & Johnson
2018 Health for Humanity Report 101
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Respect for Human Rights
GRI 102-41, GRI 402 (103), 402-1, GRI 406 (103)
Johnson & Johnson’s commitment to respecting human rights 
in our own operations and our supply base is evident in our 
policies and statements, which are available on our website:
• Code of Business Conduct
• Conducting Clinical Trials Statement
• Statement on Human Rights
• Global Labor & Employment Guidelines
• Harassment- and Bullying-Free Workplace Policy
• Policy on Employment of Young Persons
• Responsibility Standards for Suppliers
• Human Trafficking Policy
• California Transparency in Supply Chains Act & UK 
Modern Slavery Act Statement
• Human Right to Water
We updated our Statement on Human Rights in 2018 
following a rigorous internal cross-functional review process. 
We also reviewed and updated our governance structure 
for managing human rights across our value chain. The 
Enterprise Governance Council (EGC), a global, cross-
functional team of senior leaders representing functional 
groups and business segments, oversees this work. Quarterly 
EGC meetings provide a forum for updates on human rights 
topics, with an established process for elevating issues to 
the Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee, our Board of 
Directors and Board Committees if warranted.As part of our effort toward continuous improvement, 
throughout 2018 we evaluated different approaches to assess 
our actual and potential human rights impacts across our value 
chain. In 2019, we will be engaging with Shift, the leading 
center of expertise on the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights, to help us in our process to identify salient 
human rights issues—a key step in our holistic approach to 
ongoing human rights due diligence.
As outlined below, we also provide grievance mechanisms 
that can be accessed if stakeholders feel that their human 
rights have been adversely impacted.
Our Own Operations
Our Global Labor & Employment Guidelines articulate our 
expectations for labor and employment practices at our sites, 
including preventing forced labor and child labor, and non-
discrimination, among other matters. In 2018, we also evaluated 
various approaches to a systematic assessment of compliance 
with the Global Labor & Employment Guidelines in our 
operations, and expect to deploy a plan starting in late 2019.
Johnson & Johnson provides the freedom to establish a 
formal employee organization or representation structure 
across the Enterprise, including in our operating companies; 
company sites can establish an employee representation 
structure or framework except where prohibited by law.
Minimum notice periods, the management of reorganizations 
and layoffs, and the policies associated with such actions 
vary depending on the location, nature, size and scale of the 
action and applicable law. Local operating leaders endeavor 
to communicate significant plans of operational changes to 
employees and their representatives, where they are present, 21%
of employees covered by collective  
bargaining agreements
1,432 or 85.8% 
of all Global Procurement employees and 233 
employees in other functions completed human 
rights trainingin a timely and practical manner in advance of actions being 
taken. Many of our collective bargaining agreements contain 
negotiated provisions covering severance or separation pay 
and benefits. Where there is no legal minimum notice period, 
Johnson & Johnson operating companies typically provide 30 
days of notice.
Our approach to talent management puts a strong focus on 
diversity and inclusion principles. We promote diversity and 
equal opportunity in recruiting, development and promotion 
as well as all other aspects of employee careers.2018 Health for Humanity Report 102
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Supply Base
The Johnson & Johnson Responsibility Standards for 
Suppliers outline our expectations of supplier business 
conduct. The Standards align closely with relevant provisions 
of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Human Rights 
and the Consumer Goods Forum Forced Labor Resolution 
and Priority Industry Principles. In 2018, we updated and 
launched our online training on Human Rights. The training 
is mandatory for all Global Procurement employees, and is 
available to other relevant functions.
We continue to reinforce our management approach to 
human rights issues in the supply base. Our cross-functional 
Human Rights Working Group—comprised of Global 
Procurement, Law Department, Environmental Health, 
Safety & Sustainability, and Corporate Governance functional 
groups—meets regularly, and rolled out the social audit 
program in 2018. For more information, see the Supplier 
Assessments & Audits section.
Acquisitions
We firmly believe that identifying and understanding 
environmental, safety and employee issues, including 
potential human rights concerns, are critical components of 
our acquisition and other business development activities. 
We conduct thorough due diligence investigations prior to 
acquiring businesses, and apply a commensurately higher 
level of scrutiny to businesses with operations or suppliers 
in countries where there are traditionally higher risks of 
compliance violations and/or human rights abuses. We 
continue to be mindful of these concerns as we transition 
newly acquired businesses into the Johnson & Johnson 
Family of Companies, and are prepared to escalate and 
appropriately remediate any issues uncovered.
Grievance Mechanisms
We are committed to providing effective resolution where 
we have caused or contributed to adverse human rights 
impacts. Where we find impacts directly linked to our business relationships, we will use our influence to work with 
our suppliers or business partners to prevent, mitigate and 
address adverse impacts on human rights. The  
Johnson & Johnson Credo Hotline—a grievance mechanism 
available to all employees, suppliers and other business 
partners—offers a secure mechanism for anonymous 
reporting of suspected concerns or potential violations 
of our policies or the law. We communicate the hotline 
access broadly, and the visibility of this access and hotline 
functionality are in scope for enterprise-wide audit 
procedures. Concerns raised through the hotline are reported 
at an Enterprise level. More information on the Credo Hotline 
is available in our Commitment to Ethics & Compliance 
section.
In addition to the Credo Hotline, our employees can 
anonymously report potential violations to the Human 
Resources function within each operating company locally 
as follows:
• In all countries in our Asia Pacific region, we have a 
grievance resolution policy that explains how employees 
can raise complaints, and details manager responsibilities 
to take action.
• In the Americas and the Asia Pacific region, Employee 
Relations staff independently investigates non-compliance 
in employee relations matters, and verified non-compliant 
situations are addressed by the respective business unit.
• In the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, 
investigations are the responsibility of local Human 
Resources, and are overseen by regional employee 
relations teams.
• In North America, employees can use the Open Door and 
Common Ground processes, as stipulated in our Guide 
for Resolving Employee Disagreements - North America 
statement.
• In all other operating regions outside North America, an 
appeal process to re-open grievances exists under certain 
conditions.2018 Health for Humanity Report 103
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Information Security & Privacy
GRI 418 (103)
Protection, availability and integrity of both company 
and personal data, as well as appropriate use, are vital 
considerations with implications for Johnson & Johnson’s 
ability to conduct business, build and maintain trust, and 
remain compliant with laws and regulations.
It is incumbent upon Johnson & Johnson to protect 
the privacy of those who entrust us with their personal 
information, and to ensure our products are secure and 
safe. Our employees, healthcare professionals, patients, 
consumers, and all those who do business with us trust and 
expect that we will protect information in accordance with 
legal requirements and our policies.
Information Security
Data security is a top priority for Johnson & Johnson. We 
view information security as a business enabler that facilitates 
digital initiatives and are, therefore, making data security 
investments and continuously working to ensure company 
data—including all personal data—are appropriately 
protected. The Johnson & Johnson Information Security and 
Risk Management (ISRM) organization, led by the Company’s 
Chief Information Security Officer, has developed a robust 
program to achieve this objective, maintaining and constantly 
enhancing capabilities to protect company networks and 
data against evolving cyber threats. The program consists 
of an experienced team of seasoned security professionals; 
industry-leading policies and processes; and an array 
of protection, detection and response technologies and 
capabilities, which is periodically assessed by independent, 
external consulting firms to both gauge effectiveness and 
drive continued maturity and improvement.The Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee, Regulatory 
Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors, Chief 
Compliance Officer and Compliance Committee and ISRM 
each oversee compliance of Johnson & Johnson operating 
companies across a wide range of topics, including 
Information Security and Privacy.
The Information Security team has global reach with a 
presence in all regions of the world, and provides ongoing 
security consulting to all Johnson & Johnson businesses, 
ensuring they are informed of program policies, procedures 
and requirements. These activities include mandatory annual 
training that underscores the importance of appropriate data 
handling and protection, Mock Phishing campaigns across 
the Company to raise awareness to phishing attacks that 
are routinely used by threat actors, and periodic security 
awareness events at Johnson & Johnson sites around the 
globe to reinforce key cyber security protection principles 
with company associates.
In addition to protection of data, the security of the 
Company’s supply chain and connected medical devices is 
paramount. Product safety depends on a sound approach 
to security that protects not just the product, but all the 
components and processes that help produce it. To support 
this objective, the Company has taken steps to increase the 
cyber security profile of both our supply chain systems and 
our medical device products throughout their lifecycles. 
For connected medical devices, these steps have included 
the development of a comprehensive security framework 
for product development and operation. A section has been 
added on our Company website expressly for providing 
researchers or other third parties, who identify security flaws in our products, a mechanism to inform us, so we can 
evaluate their finds and take necessary corrective action.
As a leader in the healthcare industry, Johnson & Johnson 
is also engaged with external stakeholders to raise the 
security level of the industry. Examples include partnering 
with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on guidelines 
for managing medical device security and collaborating 
with other healthcare companies and organizations on 
mechanisms to improve the overall industry security posture. 
The Johnson & Johnson Information Security team also 
maintains close working relationships with peer companies, 
industry associations, and government agencies, both to 
share best practices and to collaborate on effective solutions 
to address the increasing threats and attack methods faced 
by both public- and private-sector organizations today.
Privacy
It is our responsibility to protect the privacy of those who 
entrust us with personal information. This includes our 
employees, healthcare professionals, patients, consumers, 
and all those who do business with Johnson & Johnson. 
These stakeholders expect that we will protect personal 
information in accordance with legal requirements, and we 
evolve our policies and practices to continuously deliver 
on that expectation. While there are varying requirements 
relating to privacy, we use a Privacy Framework that 
constitutes a baseline applicable to all our operating 
companies that process Personal Information.
This Privacy Framework sets forth mechanisms and 
procedures designed to assist our Company in complying 
with privacy obligations. This Framework describes the basic 2018 Health for Humanity Report 104
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
privacy principles and organizational compliance standards. 
Each Johnson & Johnson operating company is responsible 
for complying with all applicable privacy obligations. 
Obligations may derive from:
• Country or local laws and regulations;
• Johnson & Johnson Corporate Policies applicable to 
the processing of Personal Information, such as Privacy 
Policies and guidance issued by the Privacy organization;
• Policies specific to a Johnson & Johnson operating 
company; and
• Contractual or other agreements by which a  
Johnson & Johnson operating company is bound, 
including privacy statements and consents.
The Global Privacy Team (GPT) and the ISRM teams 
strengthen the embedding of privacy reviews and privacy risk 
assessments in our organizations, reinforcing a formal breach 
notification and escalation process, and strengthen the audit, 
monitoring and testing strategy. In addition, we consistently 
monitor the environment and update our local Privacy 
Policies in accordance with new requirements or changes in 
the law of the countries in which we operate.
Responsibilities for privacy compliance span many 
organizations within Johnson & Johnson, and are comprised 
of the following:
• Privacy Compliance Program Management and 
Guidance: Through the Chief Privacy Officer and the 
GPT, Johnson & Johnson Global Privacy manages a 
privacy compliance program and framework, and guides 
operating companies with respect to their compliance 
with privacy obligations.
• Operational Management: Operational management 
at each Johnson & Johnson operating company is 
accountable for establishing and implementing privacy 
compliance for that operating company’s operations.• Resources: The GPT assists operating companies with 
designating privacy resources, considering their local 
requirements and the risk environments.
• Support: Other Johnson & Johnson organizations 
and departments support HCC and Privacy and the 
operational management teams of operating companies 
in complying with privacy obligations.
We continue to enhance our global privacy programs to 
meet or exceed new and expanding regulatory requirements 
for privacy and data protection around the world, such as 
Europe’s recent General Data Protection Regulation, new or 
anticipated laws in the United States, and new requirements 
in other parts of the globe, such as Brazil, China, Japan, 
Korea, Singapore, and elsewhere. In connection with these 
new standards and our ongoing commitment to protect 
the privacy of those who entrust us with their personal 
information, we have also strengthened the  
Johnson & Johnson Privacy Framework to protect against 
increased risk, have added privacy-focused resources 
in critical regions and markets, and have strengthened 
the privacy risk assessment reviews and updates for 
management, leading to a better understanding and 
management of the privacy risk across the Enterprise.
Statement on Privacy 
Download
2018 Health for Humanity Report 105
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Strong Corporate Governance
GRI 102-18, 102-21, 102-23, 102-24, 102-26, 102-31, 102-32, 102-33, J&J-7 (GRI 103)
High standards of governance are essential to sustaining the trust 
of investors and other stakeholders, and to managing our business 
for the long-term. Our Board of Directors oversees our business to 
ensure that our strategy is in line with Our Credo values, enabling 
us to make a positive contribution to society while maintaining a 
thriving business. Our governance structure, policies and processes 
are designed to serve the needs of our business, our shareholders 
and the other stakeholders defined in Our Credo, and to promote a 
culture of accountability across Johnson & Johnson.
We believe in transparency at every level. That includes our 
most senior leadership and Board of Directors. Interested parties 
can contact our Board of Directors at any time by sending 
communications to Johnson & Johnson, Office of the Corporate 
Secretary, One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, NJ 
08933, or via email to LeadDirector@its.jnj.com, or by using the 
online submission form on our Corporate Governance website. 
General comments to the Company (including complaints or 
questions about a product) should be sent via the Worldwide Governance with “Common 
Sense”
In 2018, our CEO, together with 19 other 
CEOs leading public companies, pension 
funds and investment firms, signed the 
Commonsense Corporate Governance 
Principles 2.0 (“Commonsense 
Principles 2.0”), committing to using 
these standards to inform the corporate 
governance practices within their own 
organizations. The Commonsense 
Principles 2.0 aspire to promote a 
constructive dialogue on good corporate 
governance to benefit the millions of 
Americans who work for and invest in 
America’s public companies, create 
economic growth, and sustain the health 
of America’s corporations and markets. 
They are an updated version of the 
Commonsense Principles successfully 
launched in 2016 to build momentum 
around the corporate governance 
conversation.Corporate Governance e-mail address at WW-Corporate_
Governance@its.jnj.com.
For more information about our governance structures and Board 
Charters, please see our 2019 Proxy Statement.
Enterprise Risk Framework
Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework assists the 
Board and management teams in identifying potential business 
risks. In late 2018, we began working on an update of the Johnson & 
Johnson ERM Framework to align with the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission’s 2017 ERM framework 
update, which highlights the importance of considering risk both in 
the strategy-setting process and in driving performance. We plan to 
publish the updated ERM in 2019.
For more information, please see our Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework.
 Science, 
Technology & 
SustainabilityNominating & 
Corporate  
GovernanceFinanceJohnson & Johnson Board of Directors
11 directors total  |  3 women  |  10 independent directors Compensation & 
BenefitsAudit Regulatory, 
Compliance and 
Government Affairs6 Board Comittees:
Oversees Johnson & Johnson's global 
citizenship and sustainability performanceComposed of the Chairman of the Board 
and the Lead DirectorIncludes oversight for product quality and 
medical safety2018 Health for Humanity Report 106
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Corporate Governance Indicators 2018 2017
Number of directors on the Board 11 10
Number of independent directors on the Board 10 9
Percentage of independent directors on the Board 91% 90%
Lead independent director Yes Yes
Independent Audit Committee Yes Yes
Independent Compensation & Benefits Committee Yes Yes
Independent Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee Yes Yes
Regulatory Compliance Committee Yes Yes
Independent Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee Yes Yes
Number of regular and special meetings held by the Board of Directors Yes Yes
Independent Compensation & Benefits Committee 9 9Our Performance2018 Health for Humanity Report 107
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Responsible Supply Base
GRI 102-9, GRI 204 (103) , 204-1
As one of the world’s largest healthcare companies, Johnson 
& Johnson maintains operations in virtually all countries of the 
world and works with more than 64,000 suppliers across three 
business segments. We manage a highly complex network of 
supplier relationships that are critical to business success and 
our ability to fulfill our obligations to those we serve.
Our approach to managing a responsible supply base includes 
ensuring our compliance with global requirements related to 
supply chain transparency and disclosure. Our Responsibility 
Standards for Suppliers reflect our internal values and set forth 
the expectations we have of all Johnson & Johnson suppliers. 
We continue to evolve our processes to better understand the 
risk in our supply base, monitor supplier compliance with our 
Standards through assessments and on-site audits, and take 
action where necessary.
We also recognize that to create impact at scale we must 
continue moving beyond monitoring compliance by engaging 
with our suppliers and supporting wider industry efforts to 
improve transparency and share best practices. To this end, our Sustainable Procurement Program helps us expand supplier 
engagement to a more strategic level. In parallel, we have a 
dedicated program for supplier diversity, which continues to 
expand globally.
Johnson & Johnson Supply Base At a Glance
Our Global Procurement organization manages suppliers in 30 
categories, grouped in the following five category families:
• Supply Chain Materials and Products;
• Supply Chain Services (Construction, Capital and 
Facilities Services, and Logistics);
• R&D;
• Business Services; and
• Marketing Services.
Each category has a category leader who works with the 
Sustainable Procurement, Global Supplier Diversity & 
Inclusion, and Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability 
teams to embed social and environmental sustainability 
requirements and practices into key supplier management 
processes.
“ Our Global Procurement Vision is to 
partner to shape supplier solutions that 
transform healthcare. We believe in the 
power of partnership with our suppliers to 
enable sustainable innovation and exciting 
opportunities to make a difference in all our 
markets. ”
               Len DeCandia, Chief Procurement Officer,  
               Johnson & Johnson64,000 
suppliers globally
$29.4B 
total supplier spend*2018 Supplier Spend by Region*
2018 Supplier Spend by Business Segment*51%  North America
33%  Europe, Middle East   
 & Africa
12%  Asia Pacific 
4%  Latin America
34%  Consumer
29%   Pharmaceutical
24%  Medical Devices 
13%  Corporate
* Total spend represents addressable spend, i.e. products and services 
that procurement team can negotiate with suppliers to meet business 
goals; total spend in 2018 excludes Actelion, Abott Medical Optics, 
Orthotaxy and Zarbees.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 108
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Engaging Our Suppliers
Our Global Procurement organization is responsible for managing 
supplier relations and hosting a Citizenship Center of Excellence 
that advances sustainability within our global supply base. Global 
Procurement works closely with the Environmental Health, 
Safety & Sustainability organization to monitor and verify supplier 
compliance with our environmental health and safety requirements.
Our approach to managing responsible supply includes:
• Ensuring compliance with global requirements related to supply 
chain transparency and disclosure; 
• Assessing supplier conformance with Johnson & Johnson’s 
Responsibility Standards for Suppliers as well as applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements; 
• Auditing supplier performance, with the audit approach 
prioritized based on EcoVadis scores, geographic location, and 
the procurement category, among other criteria; 
• Expanding supplier engagement through our Sustainable 
Procurement Program (SPP) to support suppliers in achieving 
excellence by embedding sustainable social and environmental 
practices, including transparency, target setting and public 
disclosure, into their businesses and respective supply chains.
Sustainable Procurement Program
We continue working toward our Health for Humanity 2020 Goal—
to enroll supplies covering 80% of our spend in our SPP. In 2018, we 
achieved our annual target of enrolling 61% of spend in our SPP.
To participate in our SPP, all suppliers, upon enrollment, complete 
an assessment through EcoVadis, a globally recognized third-party 
41% 
of suppliers enrolled in SPP have two or more publicly 
reported sustainability goalsRecognition from EcoVadis
EcoVadis, a leading provider of business 
sustainability ratings for global supply 
chains recognized Johnson & Johnson 
as the winner in the Stakeholder 
Engagement category in EcoVadis’ 
2018 Sustainable Procurement 
Leadership Awards. This award honors 
best-in-class practices of driving 
internal engagement to roll out global 
sustainable procurement programs.supply chain rating platform, and we monitor EcoVadis scores with 
an expectation of improvement over time. Additionally, suppliers 
are required to implement at least one of the following goals 
established by our procurement teams:
• Publicly report two or more sustainability goals and track 
progress over time;
• Participate annually in CDP Supply Chain reporting;
• Achieve a minimum standard in EcoVadis, public reporting, or 
CDP as a High Performer;
• Achieve industry-specific goals, e.g., gaining certain certification, 
specific public reporting, or delivering social projects.
The requirements for all enrolled suppliers are fully transparent, 
and are communicated through our Supplier Sustainability Toolkit, 
and available on our corporate website. 
In 2018, we achieved recognition by CDP as a CDP Supplier 
Engagement Leader for leadership on supplier engagement to 
tackle climate change. We were among the highest-scoring 
3% of companies in CDP’s third annual Supplier Engagement 
Rating. This Supplier Engagement leader board recognizes 
organizations from around the world for their work to manage 
and reduce carbon emissions and address climate-related issues 
across their supply chains in the past CDP-reporting year. We are 
the first healthcare company to be admitted to CDP’s Supplier 
Engagement leader board.
        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress 
Enrolled suppliers covering 
approximately
61%
of spend in our Sustainable 
Procurement Program.
 View Scorecard
2018 Health for Humanity Report 109
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Sustainable Procurement Program (SPP) 2018 2017 2016
Spend with suppliers enrolled in SPP (billions)* $16.327 $14.969 $12.796
Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to suppliers enrolled in SPP 61% 51% 44%
Suppliers newly enrolled in SPP, annual 139 33 228
Suppliers enrolled in SPP, cumulative since the program launch (2015) 500 361 328
Suppliers invited to participate in CDP Supply Chain Climate program 305 250 244
     Percentage participated 90% 97% 92%
Suppliers invited to participate in CDP Supply Chain Water program 108 108 79
     Percentage participated 88% 86% 58%Our Performance
* Total spend represents addressable spend, i.e. products and services that procurement team can negotiate with  
suppliers to meet business goals; total spend in 2018 excludes Actelion, Abott Medical Optics, Orthotaxy and Zarbees.2018 Health for Humanity Report 110
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Supplier Assessments & Audits
GRI 308 (103), 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 412-1, 414 (103), 414-1
We believe in maintaining strict controls in our supply chain to 
minimize negative impacts on the environment and people, and 
ensure human rights are upheld in our value chain. We strive to work 
with suppliers who share our values and commitment to operating 
responsibly and ethically. All suppliers are expected to comply with 
our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers (the Standards), available in 
13 languages. Our standard Purchase Order (PO) Terms & Conditions 
(T&Cs) in North America reflects the Standards, and we are in the 
process of making similar changes to PO T&Cs worldwide in the 
applicable local languages. All new and current Global Procurement 
employees must complete a mandatory training on the Standards. The 
training is also available to relevant employees in other functions.
We verify and monitor supplier compliance on a regular basis through 
a formal assessment and audit programs. Initial risk assessments 
are largely administered through a globally recognized third-party 
program called EcoVadis. These assessments are conducted for 
suppliers participating in our Sustainable Procurement Program or 
through our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) risk assessment 
program. EcoVadis assessments provide an initial screening of supplier 
performance, and the results (a score) play an important role in 
determining which suppliers may require an on-site audit.
We have had a well-established EHS audit program in place since 
2006. In recent years, in part because of our engagement with 
different working groups and organizations on human rights 
and social aspects of supply chains, we further standardized our 
framework for ensuring supplier compliance with our human rights 
standards by launching a dedicated social audit program. Refer to 
the list of our policies and statements included in the Respect for 
Human Rights section above.
EHS Audits
The majority of our supplier EHS audits are conducted by our 
Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability organization, 
leveraging our internal EHS expertise and on-the-ground presence 
in various geographic regions. In some cases, EHS audits are 
conducted by third-party firms on behalf of Johnson & Johnson.We systematically screen suppliers to be audited for EHS 
compliance based on EcoVadis scores, type of goods and services 
provided, and geographical location. In 2018, 870 suppliers were in 
scope for our EHS risk assessment.
We particularly focus on the following types of suppliers for audits:
• External manufacturers
• Active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) suppliers
• Biologics/vaccine suppliers
• R&D suppliers
• Chemicals suppliers
New external manufacturers and APIs or biologics or vaccines 
suppliers located in a high-risk country34 are automatically 
subjected to an on-site audit.
All EHS site audits are conducted using the audit protocol and 
checklist developed by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative 
(PSCI). We identify supplier non-compliances in the areas of 
environment, health and safety, and management systems. While 
we maintain a separate social audit program, a small number of 
these audits also focus on compliance with labor and business ethics 
provisions of the Standards.
Social Audits
Social audits are conducted according to SMETA 4 guidelines by 
an accredited external audit firm on behalf of Johnson & Johnson. 
Supplier selection and prioritization criteria include results of EcoVadis 
scores on Labor and Business Ethics, location in a country considered 
high risk for violation of human rights, and the supplier category. In 
2018, we rolled out our social audit program, with 11 audits completed 
by year end. We plan to expand the program in the coming years to 
cover more geographic regions and procurement categories.
Addressing Non-Compliance
We categorize supplier non-compliances for both EHS and social 
audits as critical,35 major and minor, and communicate the findings 
to each supplier. We communicate our expectation that suppliers 
must implement time-bound corrective actions and demonstrate 
improvement. 1,575
or 
94.37%  
of all Global Procurement employees 
and 
19,928  
employees in other functions 
completed training on Responsibility 
Standards for SuppliersEHS trainings provided to 
suppliers 
9 virtual trainings
5 classroom trainings
2 PSCI-led trainings2018 Health for Humanity Report 111
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
When critical findings are identified during audit, we expect 
immediate mitigation of the risk.
We aim to maintain long-term relationships with suppliers, and 
prefer to work with them to resolve audit findings. For our EHS audit 
program, we provide the following forms of support for post-audit 
supplier improvement:
• Follow-up technical visits36 that include expert training and best 
practice sharing;
• Business reviews with direct coaching and guidance;
• Information provided in Sustainability Toolkit for Suppliers;
• Supplier relationship management engagement; and
• Supplier capability-building conferences, webinars and other 
resources. 
If significant non-conformance with our standards cannot be 
sufficiently resolved, we withdraw existing business or decline to 
start business with a new supplier.
Key Memberships
While we work hard to positively impact the suppliers within our 
immediate sphere of influence, achieving complete visibility into 
multi-tier supply chains requires concerted efforts from industry 
and other stakeholders. This is one of the reasons we actively 
participate in global healthcare industry forums that aim to raise the 
bar on supply chain responsibility and transparency by addressing 
systemic issues that no one company can solve alone. We continue 
to participate in such forums in the following roles:
• Founding member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative 
(PSCI), which brings together pharmaceutical and healthcare 
companies to champion responsible supply chain practices. 
Johnson & Johnson endorses the Principles established by the 
PSCI, and we have updated our own Responsibility Standards 
for Suppliers in line with PSCI principles and guidance.
• Member of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) through which 
we participate in working groups that aim to standardize and 
advance environmental and social sustainability practices 
across the consumer goods supply chains. 
• Member of the Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Human 
Rights Working Group established in 2012. Our Performance
Supplier EcoVadis Assessments GRI 308-2
2018 2017 2016
EcoVadis assessments 
completed542 685 496
Supplier risk ranking based on EcoVadis assessments
   Low-risk 323 342 230
   Medium-risk 195 301 223
   High-risk 24 42 43Supplier EHS Audits
2018 2017 2016
EHS audits and technical 
visits completed, total185 189 156
   EHS audits 101 Not Reported Not Reported
   Technical visits 84 Not Reported Not Reported
Audits and technical visits, by region
   Asia Pacific 155 162 125
   Europe, Middle East &   
   Africa18 21 24
   Latin America 5 6 3
   North America 7 – 4
Number of suppliers 
identified as high risk for 
non-conformance to Johnson 
& Johnson Responsibility 
Standards for Suppliers23 23 31
Number of critical EHS 
findings identified as a result 
of EHS audits27 25 Not Reported
   Safety-related 21 22 Not Reported
   Environmental-related 6 3 Not ReportedSupplier Social Audits 2018
Supplier social audits completed, total 11
   Completed using SMETA 4-pillar protocol 9
   Completed using PSCI protocol 2
Supplier social audits completed, by region
   Asia Pacific 8
   Europe, Middle East & Africa 1
   Latin America 2
   North America –
Number of critical findings identified as a result 
of supplier social audits–2018 Health for Humanity Report 112
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Sourcing Responsibly
Our commitment to environmental health includes sourcing 
our raw materials and packaging in a sustainable manner, both 
to mitigate the effects of planetary resource depletion and to 
protect biodiversity while ensuring that human rights and fair labor 
conditions are upheld throughout our supply chain.
Our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers outline our 
baseline expectations for any supplier working with us. In 
addition, we developed specific responsible sourcing criteria for 
commodities that have been linked to deforestation, including 
palm oil derivatives and wood-fiber-based products . We are 
making progress in implementing these commodity-specific 
sourcing criteria, including educating our direct suppliers on our 
expectations, driving transparency improvements in these supply 
chains, and executing non-conformance processes that maximize 
our influence where we have discovered, or been made aware of, 
actions that violate our criteria.Palm-Derived Ingredients
We purchase ingredients from suppliers that make 
ingredients derived from palm oil. We are committed, 
therefore, to using our influence to help stop deforestation 
related to the production of palm oil.
• We work with the Earthworm Foundation (EF), which 
until 2019 was known as The Forest Trust, to develop 
and implement specific sourcing requirements for 
our suppliers that purchase palm oil, palm kernel oil, 
or ingredients derived from palm or palm kernel oils. 
Together with EF, we use data from our suppliers 
to assess risks, investigate non-conformances, and 
engage with suppliers on issues as they arise. Extensive 
information, including our transparency metrics and 
details on the status of non-conformances, are available 
on the EF Transparency Hub.
• We are members of Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil 
(RSPO) and publish our derivatives volume information 
annually in our RSPO Annual Communication of 
Progress, which also details our efforts to purchase 
ingredients derived from RSPO-certified palm and palm 
kernel oil.
Wood-Fiber Products
For wood-fiber products, we worked with the Rainforest 
Alliance to update our sourcing criteria in 2018 to align with 
the principles set forth by the Forest Stewardship Council 
(FSC). As with palm oil, we support certification schemes as 
the most efficient means to ensure the wood-fiber products 
that we buy meet our sourcing criteria, with our preference 
being FSC-certified supply.
Every two years, we conduct a survey of both our top 
suppliers based on spend as well as all suppliers in 
Asia Pacific, in which we request country-of-origin and 
certification information. Based on this information, we 
assess risk for non-conformance with our criteria and work 
to verify conformance, either through certification or other Responsible Palm Oil  
Sourcing Criteria 
Download
Wood-Fiber Products  
Sourcing Criteria 
Download
Partnership with EcoHealth 
Alliance 
In 2018, we initiated two new multi-year 
partnerships with EcoHealth Alliance, 
a nonprofit working at the intersection 
of animal, environmental, and human 
health on a global scale, and World 
Wildlife Fund (WWF). Our project with 
the EcoHealth Alliance will pioneer 
the development of a “One Health” 
policy framework for making land use 
decisions that consider socioeconomic 
factors together with environmental and 
human health outcomes. This work is 
initially focused on Liberia, which has 
significant remaining intact forests. Our 
work with WWF includes advancing a 
jurisdictional approach to sustainable 
palm oil production in Southeast Asia 
and embedding human health dynamics 
into the development of Science Based 
Targets for Forests.
More  
Resources
Palm Oil2018 Health for Humanity Report 113
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
verification steps, if warranted.
Building upon last year's efforts to engage and educate our supplier 
base, in 2018 we worked with the Rainforest Alliance to review and 
revise our supplier survey and data collection process to improve 
transparency in our paper-based packaging supply chains. A new 
survey was distributed to the suppliers that constitute the top 87% 
(approximately) of our 2018 cartons and corrugated-paper-based 
packaging spend.
The data we receive from our suppliers, following analysis and 
interpretation, will be used to inform our future focus, priorities 
and work plans. In 2019, we will continue our partnership with the 
Rainforest Alliance to develop supplier-specific action plans to 
ensure continued progress toward compliance with our sourcing 
principles and criteria.
Conflict Minerals
Conflict Minerals Rule 13p-1 under the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 requires public reporting companies that manufacture or 
contract to manufacture products containing “conflict minerals” 
(defined as tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold [3TG]) to conduct 
due diligence on the source and chain of custody of those conflict 
minerals to help determine whether they originated from the 
Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, and directly 
or indirectly financed or benefited armed groups in those countries. 
Our Statement on Conflict Minerals outlines our commitment to 
taking steps to determine the use, country of origin and source of 
3TG in our global product portfolio.
Based on our due diligence efforts for the 2018 reporting period, 
we do not have conclusive information regarding the country of 
origin or facilities used to process the necessary conflict minerals 
in the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies’ products. For more 
information, see our Conflict Minerals Report for the calendar year 
ended December 31, 2018.
Johnson & Johnson is a member of the Responsible Minerals 
Initiative (RMI), formerly the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative. RMI 
is a cross-industry organization that provides resources, tools and 
information to help companies source conflict-free minerals.Conflict Minerals Statement
Download
2018 Health for Humanity Report 114
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Enhancing Supplier Diversity
Diversity of thought, culture, perspective and experience can help 
us unlock a world of innovative solutions to solve pressing global 
health issues, and this is as true in our supply chain as it is in other 
parts of our operations.
The Johnson & Johnson Supplier Diversity Program aims to:
1. Support the communities in which we live and work through the 
creation of jobs and economic empowerment. 
2. Reflect the diversity of the consumers and patients who benefit 
from our products. 
3. Respond to the requirements of our customers who expect 
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies to share their values. 
4. Partner with superior, small and diverse firms and advocacy 
groups that can provide value to our businesses, and throughout 
our supply chain.
Our Global Supplier Diversity and Inclusion (GSDI) leadership, 
within Procurement, oversees the Supplier Diversity Program, 
and has a track record in advancing supplier diversity within our 
business for more than 20 years. We proactively reach out to 
diverse businesses to help ensure awareness of opportunities with 
Johnson & Johnson and provide guidance on registering interest in 
doing business with our Company. Also, we engage with partners 
who support outreach and engagement with diverse suppliers. 
For more information on our GSDI Program and supplier diversity 
certification requirements, please visit the Supplier Diversity page 
on our website.
For the eighth consecutive year, Johnson & Johnson maintained 
membership in the Billion Dollar Roundtable, a group of companies 
that advanced best practices for supplier diversity, and that spend 
at least $1 billion (Tier 1) annually with certified minority-, women-, 
veteran-, LGBT-, and disability-owned businesses.Innovation in supplier diversity
In 2018, we hosted a Peer Ideation Event, bringing together over 100 
procurement and diversity and inclusion leaders from across 27 peer 
companies, to share best practices and generate new actionable 
ideas for supplier diversity growth and value in the Marketing and 
Business Services category family. The event included highlights 
about veteran- and LGBT-owned businesses, and debates about 
the challenges and best practices relating to supplier diversity and 
opportunities to enhance results across all companies.
Advancing women-owned suppliers
Around the world, we support and partner with WeConnect 
International, a global organization that identifies, educates, 
registers and certifies women-owned businesses outside the United 
States and connects them with buyers around the world. Our aim is 
to ensure our supply chain is reflective of our customer base, while 
expanding our sourcing opportunities from qualified suppliers with 
equal opportunity for women-owned businesses, among others.
In Japan, we support the Japanese Government’s “Act on 
Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the 
Workplace,” demonstrating our mutual interests in unlocking the 
value that women can bring to our Company and the Japanese 
economy. In November 2018, WeConnect International Japan 
hosted, and Johnson & Johnson sponsored, the first-ever 
conference on Global Supplier Diversity and Inclusion. We 
shared the stage with the Minister of State for Gender Equality, 
Ms. Satsuki Katayama, the only female member of the Japanese 
cabinet to share insights and reconfirm our commitment to 
supporting women-owned businesses.
Following a successful 2017 launch, the Women Mentoring Women 
Program continued in 2018, connecting the strengths of women-
owned businesses with those of Johnson & Johnson Procurement 
women leaders in a reciprocal mentoring relationship. Looking 
ahead, we have identified opportunities to expand the mentorships 
to support supplier capability building and development of  
Johnson & Johnson women leaders across the Enterprise.        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress
Exceeded benchmark diverse supplier 
spending at 9.7% and benchmark 
small supplier spending at 18.9% of 
total U.S. spend. 
Expanded our supplier diversity and 
inclusion programs to one additional 
country (Japan) for a total of 13 
countries against the baseline of six.
 
 View Scorecard
“ We are firmly behind efforts to 
advance women in our global sup-
ply chain. The power of the global 
WeConnect network in helping 
women to gain visibility as well as 
support is immense, and we are 
proud to play a role in moving this 
forward. ”
               Julian Hooks, Vice President and            
               Chief Procurement Officer,     
               Corporate Tier,  
               Johnson & Johnson
2018 Health for Humanity Report 115
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Supplier Diversity Categories at  
Johnson & Johnson
• NMSDC, MSDUK, and Supply Nation certified Minority-Owned 
Businesses
• WBENC and WEConnect International certified Women-Owned 
Businesses
• Disability:IN certified Disability-Owned Businesses
• NVBDC certified Veteran-Owned Businesses
• NGLCC certified LGBT-Owned Businesses
• Small Businesses (US)
• Small Disadvantaged Businesses
• Small Veteran-Owned Businesses
• Small Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Businesses
• Small Women-Owned Businesses
• Small HUB-Zone BusinessesDiverse Supplier Spend in the U.S.* 2018 2017 2016
Diverse supplier spend (billions) $1.42 $1.41 $1.30
Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to diverse suppliers 9.7% 10.3% 9.9%
Small supplier spend (billions) $2.76 $2.67 $2.69
Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to small suppliers 18.9% 19.4% 20.6%
Spend with lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender suppliers (millions) $2 $1 $1
Spend with veteran- and disabled-owned suppliers (millions) $139 $130 $78Our Performance
* Total spend represents addressable spend, i.e. products and services that procurement team can negotiate with  
suppliers to meet business goals; total spend in 2018 excludes Actelion, Abott Medical Optics, Orthotaxy and Zarbees.2018 Health for Humanity Report 116
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Our planet is facing unprecedented environmental challenges, 
including climate change, water scarcity, degradation of ecosystems, 
and natural resources depletion. According to the World Economic 
Forum's The Global Risks Report 2019, for the third year in a row 
the environment-related risks are among the greatest concerns by 
likelihood and impact raised by experts.37 
As a global manufacturer, we recognize our role in helping to conserve 
and protect natural resources. As a leader in the healthcare industry , 
we know that human health is inextricably linked to the health of the 
planet—we can’t have healthy people and communities without a 
healthy environment. To this end, we are committed to marshaling our 
expertise, resources and partnerships to reduce the environmental 
footprint of our operations, our products and our extended supply 
chain, while delivering Better Health for All.
Our performance reflects decades of proactive environmental 
stewardship, guided by Our Credo which states: “We must maintain 
in good order the property we are privileged to use, protecting the 
environment and natural resources.” Our approach is based on:
• Optimizing our operations by improving water and energy 
efficiency and reducing our waste footprint;
• Reducing lifecycle impacts of our products and solutions by 
focusing on sustainable design, material use efficiency, reduction 
in product packaging, and managing product end-of-life impacts;
• Encouraging our suppliers to make environmental improvements 
in their own businesses and respective supply chains; 
• Partnering with stakeholders to influence change on a broader 
scale beyond our own operations.Environmental Health
2018 Health for Humanity Report 117
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Key Achievements in 2018
• Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. joined the New Plastics 
Economy Global Commitment.
• Earned a place on CDP’s Climate Change A List among 
companies demonstrating global leadership on corporate 
climate action.
• Executed our first long-term “Green Tariff” agreement to 
power a portion of our manufacturing operations in the state of 
Georgia, U.S., from a new utility-scale solar installation.
• Expanded on-site renewable energy generation capacity by 
commissioning our fourth wind turbine in Ireland.
Areas of Opportunity
• Continue to establish Johnson & Johnson as a leader in 
addressing the link between the environment and human 
health through advocacy efforts, innovative partnerships and 
supporting academic research. 
• Further enhance supplier engagement programs to encourage 
suppliers to reduce their GHG emissions associated with our 
purchased goods and services.
• Identify short- and long-term actions against each of the 
four targets outlined in the New Plastics Economy Global 
Commitment.
• Identify new opportunities to advance circular economy models 
in emerging markets where waste and recycling infrastructure 
is limited.  In November 2018, our Chairman 
and CEO Alex Gorsky took the 
#EmbracingSustainability Challenge 
as part of a new campaign at Business 
Roundtable, an association of CEOs 
from America's top companies, inviting 
America's top CEOs to share how 
they are helping improve the health 
of the environment. Rising to the 
challenge, Alex shared how important 
environmental stewardship is for 
Johnson & Johnson and for us all. 
Check out the video here.
#EmbracingSustainability2018 Health for Humanity Report 118
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
EHS&S Management
GRI 302 (103) , 307-1
EHS&S Governance
• Our global Environmental Health, Safety & 
Sustainability (EHS&S) team is headed by our Vice 
President, EHS&S, and partners with other functional 
teams throughout Johnson & Johnson to drive 
environmental sustainability and workplace safety 
across our entire value chain. The EHS Council, 
comprised of the EHS&S leadership team and 
representatives from business segments, provides 
additional guidance.
• The Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee and 
the Board of Directors provide oversight.
• The Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee 
(STSC) of our Board of Directors provides support by 
identifying emerging science and technology policy 
and public health issues. In addition, STSC reviews 
Johnson & Johnson policies, goals and performance 
related to environmental sustainability. 
• The Regulatory Compliance Committee of the Board 
of Directors oversees compliance with environment, 
health and safety (EHS) regulatory requirements and 
overall workplace safety performance.
For our published policies and statements relating to 
EHS&S, please see:
• Environment, Health & Safety Policy
• Climate Policy
• Statement on Respecting Biodiversity
• Wood-Fiber Products Sourcing Principles
• Impact of Pharmaceuticals and Personal Care 
Products in the Environment
• Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing CriteriaEHS&S Management System
• We maintain a comprehensive suite of EHS&S 
Standards that provide frameworks for action across 
our operations. These Standards are reviewed 
annually.
• We certify our manufacturing and R&D sites to ISO 
14001 Environmental Management System Standard 
within three years of establishment or acquisition.
• We maintain an audit program focusing on EHS 
compliance and risk, with operational and R&D sites 
audited every three years. Findings and corrective 
actions are tracked and addressed.
• We also maintain a management incident notification 
process for applicable EHS&S non-compliances, 
accidental releases, and safety incidents within both 
four hours of occurrence for awareness and 24 hours 
of occurrence for additional information. EHS Governance
2018 2017 2016
Number of manufacturing and 
R&D sites certified to ISO 14001112 102 101
Percentage of manufacturing and 
R&D sites certified to ISO 1400199% 94% 94%
Percentage of manufacturing 
and R&D sites certified to the 
Occupational Health and Safety 
Assessment Series (OHSAS) 
Financial-related32% 33% 33%
Number of environmental non-
compliances44 64 144
Fines paid for environmental non-
compliances (thousands)$2 -- --Our Performance2018 Health for Humanity Report 119
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Climate & Energy
GRI 302 (103), GRI 305 (103)
Becoming more energy- and carbon-
efficient are essential ways we can 
improve our impact on the planet while 
maintaining cost-effective manufacturing 
and supply for our patients, consumers 
and customers around the world.
We have a long history of innovation and 
leadership in energy management, and 
have taken sustained, long-term  
action to reduce our greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions. Guided by our  
Climate Policy, our approach is  
multi-faceted, and includes:
• Understanding and managing our 
carbon footprint in direct operations 
and across the value chain;
• Setting science-based targets for 
our operations to reduce carbon 
footprint;
• Measuring and publicly reporting 
progress in reducing our carbon 
footprint;
• Working with suppliers to encourage 
emissions reductions across our value 
chain;
• Partnering with governments, 
advocacy groups and partners in the 
healthcare industry to unite efforts 
and create impact at scale; and
• Supporting responsible climate and 
energy policy around the world.
We focus our energy and carbon 
efficiency work on three main areas: 
reducing energy demand and maximizing 
energy efficiency in our operations; 
shifting to low-carbon and renewable 
energy sources to meet the remaining 
demand; and improving our influence 
over emissions in our value chain.
Energy Efficiency & Renewables in 
Direct Operations
Our science-based Scope 1 and Scope 2 
absolute CO2 emission reduction targets 
are a key part of our Health for Humanity 
2020 Goals, and commit us to ambitious 
reductions through 2050. In addition to 
this Report, we disclose our performance 
against these public commitments in the 
CDP Climate Change Report. In 2018, we 
have been recognized as a global leader 
on corporate climate action by inclusion 
in the CDP “Climate Change A list.”
We use ISO 50001 as a guide in our 
energy management strategy, focusing 
our efforts on the most energy-intensive 
equipment and creating goals and 
programs to address it.
Energy efficiency programs
Energy efficiency programs at our most 
energy-intensive manufacturing and 
R&D sites remain a priority with up to CO2 Capital Relief Program 
Overview (2005-2018) 
• 249 projects approved
• 217 projects completed
• $412 million total spend on 
completed projects
• $76 million annual energy cost 
savings*
• 2,109 TJ annual energy savings*
• 276,196 MT CO2 annual GHG 
emissions avoided*
* Results from completed projects. The types 
of energy included in the total energy use 
reduction are fuel and electricity. Reductions 
in energy consumption and GHG emissions 
avoided are calculated by comparing energy 
consumption before project implementation 
and expected consumption after 
implementation. Our project data are based on 
engineering estimates at the time the projects 
are approved.        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress 
CO2 emissions decreased by 
26%
globally since 2010  
(Scope 1 and Scope 2). 
 
 View Scorecard
2018 Health for Humanity Report 120
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
$40 million per year in capital relief for energy projects through 
the Johnson & Johnson CO2 Capital Relief Program. To be eligible 
for funding, projects must demonstrate potential CO2 savings 
and should provide a financial return of 15% or higher. In 2018, 
we approved 12 new projects and spent a total of $26.5 million. 
Key focus areas included chilled water system optimization, 
HVAC system optimization, steam generation and distribution, 
compressed air system, and LED lighting. Since its inception, the 
Capital Relief Program has funded 249 projects, with 16 of those 
completed in 2018.
Increasing renewable energy
To continue toward our public aspiration of powering 100% of 
our facilities with renewable energy by 2050, we have been 
strategically increasing our proportion of renewable energy, both 
through renewable electricity procurement and through on-site 
renewable energy technology including solar PV and wind. In 
2017, we started benefiting from electricity from a wind farm in 
Texas through our long-term power purchase agreement with 
E.ON Climate & Renewables. We are exploring additional power 
purchase agreements globally to support low-carbon operations 
in other countries as well as seeking new opportunities to invest in 
on-site renewable energy installations.
In 2018, we executed our first long-term “Green Tariff” agreement 
to power a portion of our manufacturing operations in the U.S. 
State of Georgia from a new utility-scale solar installation. We 
also expanded our on-site renewable energy generation capacity 
with the commissioning of the fourth wind turbine in Ireland. In 
Florida, U.S., we installed an 8,000-square-foot solar panel array 
at our Jacksonville distribution center. The new solar panels have 
a capacity of 115 kilowatts, providing up to 100% of the operations and contributing renewable electricity for additional material 
handling for approximately 10,000 orders a day that go through the 
distribution center.
Leader in renewable energy
In January 2018, Johnson & Johnson was named number 28 on 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) National Top 
100 List of the largest green power users from the Green Power 
Partnership. The Partnership currently has more than 1,600 
partners—including companies, governments and universities—
voluntarily using more than 45 billion kilowatt hours of green power 
annually. The EPA defines green power as electricity produced 
from solar, wind, geothermal, biogas, eligible biomass, and low-
impact small hydroelectric sources.        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress 
31%
of total electricity consumption 
generated from renewable sources.
 
 View Scorecard
56.4 
megawatts on-site clean energy  
technology capacity as of 2018On-Site Clean Energy Capacity
38%  Solar PV
35%  Co-generation
21%  Wind 
3%  Geothermal
2%  Biomass
1%  Fuel cells2018 Health for Humanity Report 121
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Green buildings
We believe that green buildings are healthy not only for the 
environment but also for our employees. Our goal is to have all 
new Johnson & Johnson buildings and renovations with a cost 
of $5 million or more certified under Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED), the most widely used green building 
protocol in the world.
Reducing Value Chain Footprint
Like many companies of our size, tracking and reporting Scope 3 
GHG emissions is a challenge because of the scale of our supply 
chain, measurement accuracy and limited availability of third-party 
data. In 2018, we enhanced our modeling methodology of various 
Scope 3 emissions categories and for the first time are able to report 
data for all 11 categories relevant to our business for the period from 
2016 – 2018. This assessment confirmed that our largest source 
of emissions is from the upstream goods and services that we 
purchase, so we will continue to focus on improvements in this area.
Our EHS&S organization partners closely with our Global 
Procurement teams to advance supplier engagement on 
environmental matters. For example, through our Sustainable 
Procurement Program, we encourage our suppliers to set, and to 
report on, the progress of public environmental goals, including 
targets related to energy use and carbon emissions reduction. For 
more information, see Responsible Supply Base section.
Sustainable transportation
We work with our transportation providers to optimize our 
distribution network, using multi-compartment trailers, 
consolidating shipments and optimizing transportation routes. 
Johnson & Johnson participates in the U.S. EPA's SmartWay 
program, which helps companies voluntarily increase 
transportation energy efficiency while decreasing GHG emissions 
and air pollution. At the same time, the SmartWay Transport 
Partnership helps freight companies improve fuel efficiency, 
increase environmental performance, and increase supply chain 
sustainability. For the past three years (2016 – 2018), New LEED certifications 
Our Xi’an Janssen Peak Project in China received LEED 
Gold Certification for its outstanding performance in 
water resources utilization, energy efficiency, and use of 
environmentally friendly materials. Xi’an Peak is the first  
certified new construction LEED Gold-level 
manufacturing facility in Johnson & Johnson.
Our new nine-floor office in Bogota, Colombia, achieved 
Platinum certification—the highest possible rating 
from LEED.
Johnson & Johnson participates in coalitions 
that support actions to promote a low-carbon 
economy and mitigate climate change, 
including
• The World Wildlife Fund’s Climate Savers Program
• The Climate Group’s RE100 Program
• We Are Still In Initiative
• Climate Leadership Council
• C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group52 
Johnson & Johnson buildings are LEED-certified, totaling 
7 .9 million square feet, or 12.6% of all building space2018 Health for Humanity Report 122
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
02004006008001,0001,2001,400
'17 '16 '15 '14 '13 '12 '11 '10 '090.015.030.045.060.075.090.0
 Sales Net EmissionsGHG Emissions [Thousand MT CO2 e]Sales [Billion USD]Johnson & Johnson has been recognized with the U.S. EPA’s 
SmartWay Excellence Award in recognition of our environmental 
performance and additional actions to reduce freight emissions 
through collaboration, operational practices, robust validating and 
reporting systems, communications and public outreach.
We also provide incentives for customers to place orders in 
quantities that optimize the use of space on trailers, which reduces 
the number of deliveries and makes it more efficient to schedule, 
load and unload goods. Similarly, we work with customers to 
achieve idle-time reduction and faster turnaround times at 
distribution centers through delivery scheduling and, where 
available, offering electrical connections for truck charging.
Healthier and more sustainable cities
In 2018, we were proud to partner with the @c40cities Climate 
Leadership Group on research on the health co-benefits of cities 
acting on climate change. The interim results of our work with 
the C40 cities were published to highlight the health benefits 
that cities can achieve if they pursue efficient buildings and clean 
transport and industry, all supported by a clean energy grid. The 
research, co-funded by Johnson & Johnson, indicates that actions 
by cities in these areas could not only yield an 87% reduction in 
GHG emissions, a 49% reduction in air pollution measured by 
PM2.5 levels, and up to $583 billion in economic benefit, but 
also prevent 223,000 premature deaths annually. For more about 
sustainable cities and to download the research, see here.'18GHG Emissions (Facilities, Scope 1 & Scope 2) vs. Sales, 2009-20182018 Health for Humanity Report 123
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Performance
Energy Use1  GRI 302-1, 302-3, 302-4
2018 2017 2016
Total energy use (TJ) 13,208 12,685 12,811
   From renewable sources 2,246 1,816 174
   From non-renewable sources 10,962 10,869 12,637
Energy intensity ratio (TJ/billion USD)2162 164 176
Percent change in energy intensity compared to 2010 baseline (TJ/billion USD)2-24% -24% -19%
Purchased Energy Use by Type (TJ)1 GRI 302-2
2018 2017 2016
Electricity 6,583 6,352 6,579
Natural gas 5,020 4,892 5,116
Diesel 592 929  631
Direct heating/cooling 180 238 216
Propane 90 64 82
Biogas 28 23 0
Fuel Oil 15 15 15
Total purchased energy 12,507 12,512 12,639On-Site Generated Energy Use by Type (TJ)1 GRI 302-2
2018 2017 2016
Co-generation 525 581 627
Wind 78 65 60
Solar PV 56 82 85
Geothermal 18 24 25
Fuel cell 23 24 26
Biomass 2 2 2
Total on-site generated 
energy701 778 8252018 Health for Humanity Report 124
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Performance, cont.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions3 GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 2018 2017 2016
Scope 1 GHG emissions, total (MT CO2e)4445,054 458,573 467,959
Scope 1 GHG emissions by source (MT CO2e)4
   Facilities1300,847 313,807 303,334
   Sales fleet 122,194 123,179 134,502
   Refrigerants 12,298 9,830 18,372
   Aviation 9,715 11,757 11,751
Scope 2 GHG emissions, facilities (MT CO2e)1, 4
   Location-based 680,326 663,447 682,203
   Market-based5550,480 604,457 Not Reported
Scope 3 GHG emissions, by source (MT CO2e)4, 14
   Purchased goods and services68,826,462 8,117,919 9,336,787
   Upstream transportation and distribution62,039,872 1,893,440 2,083,011
   Business travel6, 7775,747 692,914 764,080
   Employee commuting8351,260 348,400 330,460
   Capital goods6271,422 246,076 135,769
   Fuel- and energy-related activities950,821 46,524 52,815
   Upstream leased assets1039,981 45,702 30,693
   Waste generated in operations112,983 4,141 12,785
   Downstream product transportation12Available 12/2019 45,850 48,561
   Use of sold products13
        Direct 78,051 73,503 176,402
        Indirect 6,894,347 6,260,427 6,649,429
   End-of-life treatment of sold products13222,404 211,531 235,803
GHG emissions intensity ratio (Scope 1 and Scope 2) per revenue (MT CO2e/million USD) 12 14 16
Percent decrease in GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) per revenue 
compared to 2010 baseline (MT CO2e /million USD)45% 37% 10.4%Air Emissions by Category15 GRI 305-6, 305-7
2018 2017 2016
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP) 
emissions (MT)1630.25 50.14 54.00
Volatile organic compound 
(VOC) emissions (MT)16414.05 607.99 501.00
Particulate matter (PM) 
emissions (MT)17247 .14 205.22 182.00
Refrigerant emissions (MT) 7 .85 6.12 12.91
Ozone-depleting substances 
emissions (MT)1.53 2.35 3.61
Sulfur oxide (SO2) emissions 
(MT)1664 99 68
Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) 
emissions (MT)288 290 2922018 Health for Humanity Report 125
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
1.   Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson-owned and 
-leased sites over 50,000 square feet, as well as manufacturing and 
R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise noted. 
2. Our diverse product portfolio makes it difficult to track an 
organization-specific metric, therefore we use revenue as 
denominator for energy intensity. Energy intensity ratio includes 
electricity, stationary fuels, and district heating and cooling.
3. Selected year 2018 global GHG emissions inventory including 
Scope 1, Scope 2 (location- and market-based) emissions, Scope 
3 emission categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, the percentage of 
electricity use generated by renewable energy sources, and NOx 
and SOx emissions (from combustion sources) were third-party 
assured byERM Certification and Verification Services Inc. Please 
see this page for Independent GHG Assurance Statement. 
4. In accordance with guidance from World Resources Institute 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, we restated 
the 2016 - 2017 values to reflect newly released electricity grid 
emission factors as well as addition or removal of acquisitions 
and divestitures. We do not currently use purchases, sales or 
transfers of offsets in our GHG accounting. Gases covered in these 
calculations include CO2, CH4, and N2O. Hydrofluorocarbons 
(HFCs) are disclosed in EHS&S Governance. Perfluorinated 
chemicals, sulfur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride do not result 
from our operations. We do not calculate or report biogenic CO2 
emissions in MT CO2e separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) 
GHG emissions. Electricity emission factors are obtained from the 
International Energy Agency’s CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 
Report and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's eGRID 
publication for location-based Scope 2 reporting, and from 
supply contracts and residual emission factors, where available, 
for market-based Scope 2 reporting. Fuel emission factors are 
obtained from the EPA Climate Leaders publication. Global 
Warming Potentials are obtained from the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report. The chosen 
consolidation approach for emissions is operational control. 
5. We did not report Scope 2 emissions using the market-based 
method prior to 2017. Starting from 2017, we are reporting Scope 2 
emissions using both location-based and market-based methods, 
based on the latest Scope 2 guidance from the World Resources 
Institute in the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
6. Emissions were calculated using company spend in the reporting 
year paired with appropriate economic input/output (IO) emission 
factors from Carnegie Melon’s 2002 dataset.  Where more specific primary data were able to be obtained, they were used in place of 
the IO calculation methodology. 
7. Business Travel emissions for reporting year 2016 and 2017 are 
being restated due to the availability of spend data in categories 
that were not previously available. 
8. Emissions from Employee Commuting were calculated using survey 
data from several properties and extrapolated for global operations.  
It should be noted that due to the assumptions that were made, 
Johnson & Johnson did not receive third-party limited assurance 
for this scope, but will work to improve these assumptions in the 
coming years. 
9. Emissions from Fuel-and Energy-related Activities were calculated 
for emissions from transportation and distribution losses from 
purchased electricity.  Emissions were calculated by combining 
purchased electricity with an appropriate emissions factor and 
percentage grid loss for each location.
10. Emissions from Upstream Leased Assets were calculated by 
applying the energy intensity from office locations in our Scope 
1 and 2 footprint to the building area of leased assets less than 
50,000 SqFt, which are excluded from Scope 1 and 2 reporting. 
11. Emissions from Waste Generated in Operations were calculated for 
non-hazardous waste for our global operations using the U.S. EPA’s  
Waste Reduction Model (WARM).  
12. Emissions from Downstream Transportation and Distribution 
were calculated using the U.S. EPA’s SmartWay Program, and are 
provided for U.S. shippers only. 
13. Emissions from the Use of Sold Products and the End-of-Life 
Treatment of Sold Products were calculated using sales volumes 
for all Johnson & Johnson products combined with lifecycle 
assessment (LCA) models where sales volumes could be obtained, 
and where they could not be obtained, sales revenues and average 
unit prices were used to estimate volumes. Due to the size of our 
product portfolio, LCA’s were not performed for every Johnson & 
Johnson product, so products were placed into LCA categories and 
a representative product LCA was applied. It should be noted that 
due to the assumptions that were made,  
Johnson & Johnson did not receive third-party limited assurance 
for these scopes, but will work to improve these assumptions in the 
coming years.   14. Emissions from the Processing of Sold Products, Downstream 
Leased Assets, Franchises, and Investments are not applicable to 
Johnson & Johnson operations. 
15. Where relevant, prior year data have been restated, reflecting 
improvements in data quality over time.
16. HAP, VOC and SOx emissions decreased in 2018 significantly 
compared to 2017, due to emergency generators operating for an 
extended time during the Hurricane Maria in 2017.
17. PM emissions increase was mainly driven by a significant use of 
diesel at one of the European sites when old sulphur-rich diesel was 
replaced by new sulphur-poor diesel.2018 Health for Humanity Report 126
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Waste & Water Management
GRI 303, 306 (103)
Nearly half the global population is already living in potential water-
scarce areas at least one month per year. This could increase to some 
4.8 – 5.7 billion by 2050.38 Access to clean water and sanitation is 
essential for human health and wellbeing and, as leaders in healthcare, 
we are committed to conserving water resources wherever we operate, 
and to meeting the water demand for our operations without limiting 
the availability or quality of water resources to others.
Waste is a sign of resource inefficiency in value chains. High levels of 
waste place unnecessary burden on planetary resources, contribute to 
climate change through methane generation, and represent risks for 
biodiversity and human health, especially where poorly managed waste 
facilitates the spread of disease.
At Johnson & Johnson, we aim to minimize our impacts on the planet 
through responsible use of water and minimizing waste generation at 
source, while increasing sustainable management of waste.
Water Management
Our water stewardship strategy is based on the following key priorities:
• Reducing water demand and increasing water reuse across our 
operations;
• Complying with wastewater discharge requirements and our 
internal wastewater quality standards;
• Prioritizing water management actions using a risk-based 
approach at our sites worldwid; and
• Reporting publicly on our performance and progress.
Johnson & Johnson Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability 
Standard for water and wastewater management requires our facilities 
to comply with the local treatment standards or our proprietary 
Standard, whichever is more stringent.
Our Health for Humanity 2020 water goal commits us to conducting a 
comprehensive water risk assessment at 100% of manufacturing and 
R&D locations, and implementing resource protection plans at the high-risk sites. We are on track to achieve this goal. We measure water risk 
with our proprietary risk assessment model for water stress, which uses 
frameworks from leading water stress models and our own site data.
Johnson & Johnson has been a participant in the CDP Water Program 
since its inception in 2010, and in 2018 received CDP Water Security 
A- rating for our water management efforts.
Waste Management
As a global manufacturer, we have an important role to play in reducing 
our operational waste and promoting the circular economy approach. 
We look for opportunities across the entire value chain to use raw 
materials more efficiently; use less hazardous materials; reduce the 
amount of waste generated and recycle/reuse waste generated. The 
waste streams generated directly by our operations include hazardous 
and non-hazardous waste from research laboratories, manufacturing 
processes and offices.
We maintain several initiatives at our plants to systematically avoid waste 
or reduce waste to landfill. For example, our Waste-to-Value program 
at Consumer products manufacturing sites sees groups collaborating 
to reduce waste in the manufacturing process and partnering with 
external organizations for alternative disposal options. In Belgium, 
our innovative mobile wastewater treatment unit treats liquid waste 
streams from chemical production and recovers zinc metals for reuse. 
In the Netherlands, we separate food waste and use it to create biogas 
energy. These initiatives and more reflect our strong commitment to 
waste reduction to safeguard health for humanity. Every Johnson & 
Johnson site must comply with local requirements and develop its own 
waste management strategy based on the following hierarchy of waste 
management practices:
1. Source reduction
2. Recycle/reuse
3. Chemical/biological treatment
4. Incineration/energy recovery
5. Land disposal        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress 
69%
of all high-risk sites identified in 
water risk assessment process 
developed mitigation plans and 
have budget allocated to start 
implementation in 2019.
 
 View Scorecard
2018 Health for Humanity Report 127
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Performance
Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT)
2018 2017 2016
Recycled 24,652 22,450 21,506
Energy recovery 16,374 14,395 14,728
Landfilled 3,462 4,325 5,347
Incinerated 2,953 3,584 7,439
Reused 2,758 988 490
Bio/chemical treatment 2,372 2,901 2,664
Other 101 100 217
Total hazardous waste 52,672 48,743 52,392Non-Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT)
2018 2017 2016
Recycled 79,827 75,281 67,412
Energy recovery 22,356 20,116 19,759
Landfilled 13,068 15,356 14,252
Reused 12,796 10,125 4,438
Bio/chemical treatment 10,228 11,079 8,376
Incinerated 5,318 3,893 4,731
Other 42 1,883 6,558
Total hazardous waste 143,635 137,732 125,526Total Operational Waste (MT) GRI 306-1
2018 2017 2016
Hazardous waste 52,672 48,743 52,392
Non-hazardous waste 143,635 137,732 125,526
Total waste generated 196,307 186,475 177,9182018 Health for Humanity Report 128
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Our Performance, cont.
Water Use by Source (million m3)* GRI 303-1
2018 2017 2016
Municipal 8.21 8.05 8.31
Groundwater 3.26 3.28 2.30
Greywater 0.06 0.05 0.06
Other 0.06 0.04 0.05
Rainwater 0.04 0.04 0.06
Surface water 0.02 0.02 0.01
Total water use 11.64 11.50 10.80Water Discharge by Destination (million m3)* GRI 306-1
2018 2017 2016
Wastewater treatment plant 5.21 5.36 5.29
Surface water 2.11 2.07 2.33
Irrigation 0.19 0.22 0.16
Other 0.10 0.10 0.22
Ocean 0.08 0.07 0.09
Total water discharge 7 .69 7.81 8.08Water Use Summary (million m3)* GRI 303-1, 303-3
2018 2017 2016
Total water use 11.64 11.50 10.80
Total water recycled  
and reused0.84 0.91 0.88
Total water discharge 7 .69 7.81 8.08
* Where relevant, prior year data have been restated, reflecting improvements in data quality over time.2018 Health for Humanity Report 129
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Product Sustainability
J&J-5 (GRI 103)
Product sustainability is a priority in Johnson & Johnson’s 
environmental stewardship strategy. We are committed to the 
development of more sustainable products that contribute to a 
healthier planet. Our approach is based on science and a lifecycle 
accountability for product impacts—from discovery and design, 
raw material sourcing and manufacturing to product use and end 
of life.
Our commitment to product sustainability includes the following:
• Including sustainability considerations at the design phase to 
identify and quantify potential environmental risks;
• Selecting and sourcing more sustainable ingredients;
• Assessing lifecycle environmental impacts of our product 
categories to identify opportunities for improvement; 
• Applying green chemistry and engineering principles in design 
and manufacturing;
• Taking a more sustainable approach to packaging; 
• Managing product end-of-life impacts, including the effects 
of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in the 
environment. 
Our global environmental product stewardship team, which is part 
of our Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability organization, 
leads our product sustainability focus across our consumer, medical 
devices and pharmaceutical businesses, connecting with our R&D, 
supply chain and marketing teams to embed sustainable principles 
into our product innovation processes. They also partner with our 
customers, governments, advocacy and industry groups to share 
best practices and shape responsible, science-based product 
stewardship policies across the world.2018 Health for Humanity Report 130
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Consumer:  
SUNDOWN Todo Dia 
SUNDOWN Todo Dia Repellent is the 
combination sunscreen/bug repellent 
launched in Brazil to simplify consumers’ 
routines. By combining two formulations 
into one product, the project team 
achieved a 48% reduction in weight 
of materials, and the same amount 
of reduction in weight of primary 
packaging. Thus, SUNDOWN Todo Dia 
Repellent addresses the consumer need 
of protection against the elements in an 
efficient and more sustainable way.
20 
EARTHWARDS innovation workshops 
held resulting in 3 recognitions        ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress
New and existing products 
representing 19.60% of  
Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved 
EARTHWARDS recognition.
 
 View Scorecard
Lifecycle Assessment with 
EARTHWARDS 
J&J-6, GRI 103
EARTHWARDS is our approach for 
encouraging the development of more 
sustainable products. Focusing on the 
lifecycle areas with the highest potential 
impact, we prioritize improvements for 
the largest possible impact reduction. 
When a product achieves at least three 
significant improvements across our 
seven impact areas, a board of external 
experts determines if it warrants 
EARTHWARDS recognition. Since we 
launched EARTHWARDS in 2009, 139 
products have been recognized, with 31 
newly recognized in 2018. Our adherence 
to the EARTHWARDS methodology 
is audited annually by an external 
verification company. 
To brainstorm ideas and spur innovation 
across our global product stewardship 
teams, we organize EARTHWARDS 
Innovation sessions. These are workshops 
where we use a suite of tools and 
resources to have our cross-functional 
teams think about their products from 
a sustainability perspective and identify 
areas of improvement.Medical Devices: 
SURGICEL Original 
Absorbable Hemostat 
Of the many EARTHWARDS 
recognitions39 in 2018, a standout for 
Medical Devices was our SURGICEL 
Original. SURGICEL Absorbable 
Hemostat (oxidized regenerated 
cellulose) is used adjunctively in surgical 
procedures to assist in the control of 
capillary, venous, and small arterial 
hemorrhage when ligation or other 
conventional methods of control are 
impractical or ineffective.40 SURGICEL 
Original met four product sustainability 
improvement areas by using Forest 
Stewardship Council Certified® paper 
in the packaging, reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions by 99% at one point of 
distribution, limiting waste by 66% in 
comparison to a previous product, and 
innovating new and unique in-house 
machinery to create the product.41 
Pharmaceutical: 
Apalutamide 
Early in 2018, ERLEADA (apalutamide) 
became the first medicine approved by 
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
for the treatment of non-metastatic 
castration-resistant prostate cancer, 
which is defined as prostate cancer 
that has not spread but continues to 
grow despite treatment with hormone 
therapy, and in the same year earned 
EARTHWARDS recognition based 
on sustainability improvements 
demonstrated during the development 
process. These include application of 
"Green Chemistry and Technology" 
principles used in the development of a 
new active pharmaceutical ingredient 
(API) synthesis route and the reuse 
of solvent. A cross-functional team 
assessed these improvements, which 
resulted in relevant reductions in the 
use of raw material, water and waste. 
In addition, ERLEADA was assigned 
the EARTHWARDS "innovation" 
impact area, based on the innovative 
API synthesis route, which resulted 
in multiple patents granted, and the 
application of process analytical tools, 
leading to a significant reduction in the 
use of energy.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 131
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
EARTHWARDS Products Summary 2018 2017 2016
Number of EARTHWARDS-recognized products, cumulative since 2009 139 118 93
Annual savings from EARTHWARDS-recognized products sold*
    Packaging reduced (MT) 14,139 14,932 4,488
    Material reduced (MT) 1,170 22,838 66,779
    Water saved (liters) 1,768,260 623,684 214,096,470
    Waste reduced (MT) 179.9 202.84 689,793
   GHG emissions avoided (MT CO2e) 43,000 70,000 Not ReportedOur Performance
* Savings are for products recognized through the end of 2017 and are estimated based on best available methodologies 
for each impact reduction area; select products are not included in savings estimation because of lack of detailed data; 
we track savings starting the first full calendar year after a product is recognized.2018 Health for Humanity Report 132
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Green Chemistry & Engineering
We believe green chemistry offers significant environmental and 
business benefits as it increases resource efficiency and generates 
less waste while enabling production cost savings that help our 
business perform better. Most medicines and vaccines require 
substantial amounts of raw materials to manufacture a single 
treatment dose containing active ingredients. Responsible use of 
chemicals is therefore a priority for our pharmaceuticals segment.
Janssen is a founding member of the American Chemical Society 
(ACS) Green Chemistry Institute® Pharmaceutical Roundtable, and 
has been participating in the European CHEM21 program since 
its inception in 2012. These forums offer an opportunity to share 
industry best practices and direct academic research to develop 
greener manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs).
We integrate the 12 principles of green chemistry and engineering 
adopted by ACS into our product development practices. Typically, 
we generate the most significant improvements by focusing on:
• Reduction of process mass intensity (PMI) 
• Reducing hazardous waste generation
• Using greener solventsReducing Solvent Use
Through the use of green chemistry & 
engineering techniques our HIV drug 
INTELENCE (etravirine) achieved an 
88% reduction in the solvent use during 
drug product manufacturing. It’s also 
the first product in Janssen's portfolio 
to employ direct solvent reuse, which 
means solvents are reused in the 
manufacturing process instead of being 
disposed of as waste.
2018 Health for Humanity Report 133
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Sustainable Packaging
Packaging plays a critical role in 
maintaining the quality, safety and 
integrity of our products throughout the 
value chain. It also delivers important 
information to patients and consumers 
about product composition and guidance 
for proper use. All our product packaging 
must comply with local packaging 
regulations in all countries where they 
are manufactured and sold. In addition, 
we continuously explore opportunities 
to reduce environmental impacts of our 
packaging by focusing on the following:
• Reducing material use by decreasing 
packaging size, weight or thickness; 
• Using packaging materials with 
recycled content; 
• Designing for recyclability by 
selecting materials that are already 
widely recycled;
• Purchasing responsibly sourced 
packaging materials;
• Influencing recycling rates by raising 
consumer and customer awareness.
Committing to the New  
Plastics Economy
In 2018, Johnson & Johnson Consumer 
Inc. became a signatory to the New 
Plastics Economy Global Commitment, 
thereby committing to use more recycled 
materials in packaging, reduce reliance 
on single-use packages, and ensure that 
100% of plastic packaging be reusable, 
recyclable or compostable via design, 
partnerships, and investments by the 
year 2025. The New Plastics Economy         ON TRACK  
2020 Goal Progress
Continued recycling-related 
partnerships to advance development 
of recycling infrastructure in Brazil, 
India and Vietnam.
 
 View Scorecard
A selection of our sustainable 
packaging initiatives and 
partnerships: 
• We are a founding partner of 
the Closed Loop Fund, a U.S. 
social impact fund that invests in 
scaling recycling infrastructure 
and sustainable manufacturing 
technologies to advance circular 
economy.
• CARE TO RECYCLE is our branded 
initiative encouraging consumers to 
recycle their personal care products 
through educational campaigns.
• We are a founding partner of The 
Healthcare Plastics Recycling 
Council, an initiative helping 
the healthcare industry support 
recyclability of plastics in clinical 
settings.
• We participate in Plastic Tube 
Recycling Collaborative as one of 
the few consumer companies funding 
efforts to advance recycling solutions 
for plastic tubes in North America.
• As a member of Inclusive Waste 
Recycling Consortium, we are 
promoting scalable “value from 
waste” programs that help recycling 
cooperatives in Brazil and India 
to improve their operational 
processes develop a stronger 
social infrastructure, and create a 
sustainable market for their materials.Global Commitment, led by the Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation, in collaboration 
with UN Environment, unites businesses, 
governments, and other organizations 
behind a common vision, and works 
to address plastic waste and pollution 
at its source. Signatories include 
companies representing 20% of all plastic 
packaging produced globally, as well 
as governments, NGOs, universities, 
industry associations and investors.
Helping consumers recycle
We believe consumers play a vital role 
in helping to close the cycle of care for 
our planet. That’s why we created and 
maintain a website – caretorecycle.com  
– featuring tips, videos and how-to’s on 
best ways to involve families in recycling 
personal care products and reducing 
waste.
As Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc., 
we also took a step to help consumers 
recycle by joining the growing list of 
companies adopting the How2Recycle 
label, a recycling label that is standardized 
across all packaging types in North 
America. We began rolling out this label 
on our JOHNSON'S Baby packaging and 
continue to include on it new bottle and 
carton packaging, providing instructions 
that help people properly dispose and 
recycle our products.“ We are thrilled that  
Johnson & Johnson Consumer 
Inc. is joining the movement of 
hundreds of brands embracing 
standardized recycling labeling 
with How2Recycle. By telling 
people exactly how to recycle 
their packaging, Johnson & 
Johnson is empowering parents to 
take proper action while making 
their lives easier. ”
Kelly Cramer, Lead of How2Recycle at the 
Sustainable Packaging Coalition2018 Health for Humanity Report 134
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach
 Appendix References Environmental Health
Products in the Environment
The major source of pharmaceuticals entering the environment is via 
patient excretion following use of medicine. A smaller contribution 
stems from emissions resulting from the manufacturing process and 
from improper disposal of medications. The major source of personal 
care products entering the environment is via use of products and 
rinsing from the body during bathing activities
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment
We aim to mitigate the effects of medicines in the environment in 
the following ways:
• Conducting environmental risk assessments of all active 
pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) used in our products prior 
to market approval to determine potential environmental 
concentration and risks; 
• Monitoring our manufacturing wastewaters for potential 
toxicity to aquatic species, controlling our discharges according 
to local regulations and maintaining discharge levels below no-
effect concentrations;
• Employing sourcing practices that help ensure that our 
chemicals and API suppliers comply with our expectations for 
environmental and social practices;
• Advancing the science through research and public-private 
research consortiums to find new solutions to minimize the 
presence of pharmaceuticals in the environment. 
Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR)
Pharmaceuticals entering the environment are a contributing 
factor in the rapid growth of AMR, the resistance of pathogens 
to previously effective drugs. As one of the original signatories 
Impact of Pharmaceuticals 
and Personal Care Products in 
the Environment Statement
Download
of the Davos Declaration, in 2016 Johnson & Johnson joined the 
industry-wide call to curb development of AMR, also endorsing 
the Roadmap on Progress for Combating AMR. We are working 
on multiple fronts to fulfill our AMR Roadmap commitments, 
including those related to environmental impact from production of 
antibiotics. For more information, see our AMR page.
Personal Care Products in the Environment
The Johnson & Johnson statement on the Impact of Pharmaceuticals 
and Personal Care Products in the Environment lays out our 
approach to assessing and managing our impacts, while partnering 
with others to advance responsible science-based policy.
In our Consumer business, many of our products are washed off the 
body into the local environment and water supply. To understand 
how our formulations interact with these environments we use our 
patented GLOBAL AQUATIC INGREDIENT ASSESSMENT protocol.
We have also voluntarily removed microbeads from our products 
worldwide. Finally, we continue to replace the plastic sticks from our 
cotton buds with 100% paper sticks—completed in Africa, Europe, 
Japan and Middle East, and rolling out across other regions.
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR)
We comply with applicable EPR regulations in different countries, and 
invest in many initiatives for better management of our products at 
end of life. We support voluntary take-back programs, and we work 
with our customers to evaluate opportunities to increase the number 
and quantity of products that can be recycled and reprocessed.
For example, the Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies 
work with health facilities to collect medical devices that otherwise 
would be immediately bound for landfills or incineration, and 
reprocesses those devices so that they can be reused by healthcare 
professionals. Also, our Janssen U.S. business has created the 
Janssen SAFE RETURNS program for patients using our biologics 
products at home, enabling them to collect and return used injection 
devices like prefilled syringes and auto-injectors for disposal.1.9M 
medical devices collected and  
1.5M
reprocessed in 20182018 Health for Humanity Report 135
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Appendix
2018 Health for Humanity Report 136
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Download
GRI Index 
Download
UNGC Index 
Download
Data Summary2018 Health for Humanity Report 137
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Johnson & Johnson’s 2018 Health for Humanity Report 
details our progress in citizenship and sustainability. Data in 
this Report cover the period between January 1, 2018, and 
December 31, 2018, unless otherwise indicated. The Report  
is also available online at healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com. 
It includes a Report Summary, which is available in five 
languages. Reporting on other matters specific to financial 
performance of the Company and its subsidiaries can be 
found in our 2018 Annual Report. 
This Report covers Johnson & Johnson’s worldwide 
operations, including our subsidiaries across three business 
segments: Consumer, Medical Devices and Pharmaceutical. 
Contract manufacturers are excluded from the scope of 
this Report, unless otherwise noted. There have been no 
significant changes from our previous reporting period 
regarding scope, boundaries, or measurement methods 
applied.
The Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Core option. Our 2016 
Priority Topics Assessment process guided the Report’s 
structure. The Report also serves as our annual UNGC 
Communication on Progress.
All data in the Report have been subject to some level of 
verification. ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM 
CVS) conducted independent review and assurance of the 
following information and data in the Report:
• Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, 
and associated data presented in the 2020 Goals Progress 
Scorecard.About This Report
GRI 102-10, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56
• Progress against UN SDG commitments, and associated 
data presented in the UN SDG Progress Scorecard.
• Selected year 2018 global greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions inventory and electricity use generated from 
renewable energy sources that are also included in our 
2019 CDP Climate Change Report.
ERM CVS’s Assurance Statements are available on this page. 
The financial data and general information about the business 
in this Report were previously audited for disclosure in our 
2018 Annual Report.
Acquisitions: Environment, health and safety (EHS) data 
of recently acquired companies, except for road safety 
data, are included in the Report two years after acquisition, 
unless otherwise noted. This grace period allows the new 
acquisitions to adjust their EHS management and reporting 
systems to Johnson & Johnson standards. Road safety data 
are integrated the first year after acquisition, where available, 
and two years after acquisition at the latest. The dates 
and details of recent acquisitions can be found in Note 20 
(Business Combinations and Divestitures) on page 81 of our 
2018 Annual Report.
Divestitures: Except for injury statistics and violations or 
fines, EHS data of divested companies are excluded in the 
reporting year.
Restatements: We use a 5% change threshold to apply to 
significant changes in data or information that is restated. 
There are a number of potential reasons that may lead to 
a restatement of either prior periods or baseline data (e.g., a significant change in newly published measures, new 
acquisitions or divestitures, data errors, or improvements 
in data collection methodology over time). Depending on 
circumstances, each is evaluated using this threshold, and 
appropriate disclosures are included in the Report.
Human Resources Data: These data are based on headcount 
data from Human Resources Information Systems (HRIS). 
HRIS headcount methodology differs from that used for 
the headcount in our Annual Report/Form 10-K. HRIS data 
exclude employees on long-term disability, fixed-term 
employees, interns/co-ops/students. Data may not include 
full population from more recently acquired companies.
BSR, a global nonprofit organization focused on corporate 
sustainability, partnered with Johnson & Johnson to help 
secure stakeholder feedback on the 2018 Health for Humanity 
Report content. Feedback has been integrated into this 
Report.
We welcome your queries and feedback on this Report. 
Please contact us at WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.
com .2018 Health for Humanity Report 138
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Engagement Summary
Scope of our 
assurance 
engagement Whether cumulative 2016 -2018 progress against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and related Targets 
as reported in the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard (the Scorecard) on pages 14 to 
17 of the Report and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is fairly presented, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the reporting criteria. 
Reporting 
criteria Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets as defined in the Scorecard. World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD)/World Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol for 
Greenhouse Gas emissions.
Assurance 
StandardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 
3000 Revised).
Assurance level Limited assurance. 
Respective 
responsibilitiesJ&J is responsible for preparing the Report, including the Scorecard, and for the collection and 
presentation of the assured performance information and data.  
 
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities 
performed and on exercising our professional judgement. ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was 
engaged by Johnson & Johnson (J&J) to provide limited 
assurance on cumulative progress over 2016 -2018 against the 
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals reported in the Johnson & 
Johnson 2018 Health for Humanity Report (the Report) and on 
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com as set out below.  
Our conclusion
Based on our assurance activities, as described below, nothing 
has come to our attention to indicate that the cumulative 
progress (2016 -2018) against the Health for Humanity 2020 
Goals and Targets, as reported in the Scorecard on pages 14 to 
17 of the Report and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, is not 
fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the 
reporting criteria.  
 
 
Our assurance activities
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the 
information and explanations that we believe were necessary 
to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. A multi-
disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists 
performed assurance procedures as follows:  
• A 3-day visit to J&J Corporate Offices in New 
Brunswick, NJ and a number of conference calls to 
interview: 
 ▫relevant staff in order to understand and 
evaluate the systems and processes (including 
internal review/audit) used for collecting, 
consolidating, evaluating and reporting the 
information and data used to report progress 
against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and 
Targets; Independent Assurance Statement 
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress2018 Health for Humanity Report 139
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
 ▫management representatives responsible for 
the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets 
and the implementation of the related activities 
undertaken in 2018;  
• A review of the reporting principles, boundaries, 
definitions and internal guidelines for each of the 
selected Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets;
• A high level review of the greenhouse gas (GHG) and 
renewable energy data to confirm consistency with the 
findings of our separate GHG and renewable energy 
verification engagement including completeness and 
consistency over time and the restatements of the 
baseline and prior year data;
• A review of samples of underlying documentary 
evidence and data to support the reported cumulative 
progress for each Health for Humanity 2020 Goal and 
Target, including internal and external documents; and
• A review of the presentation of information relevant to 
the scope of our work on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com 
and in the rest of the Report to ensure consistency with 
our findings. 
The limitations of our engagement
The reliability of the assured information is subject to 
inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for 
determining, calculating, or estimating the underlying 
information. It is important to understand our assurance 
conclusions in this context. In addition, the assured 
information should be read in conjunction with the boundary 
and consolidation policies under  ‘About This Report’ on 
page 137 and the disclosures provided under the column 
‘Notable’ in the Scorecard.Regarding the formation on 
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, we provide no assurance 
over any information other than as described in our assurance 
scope above nor on changes to the content of the assured 
information after the date of this assurance statement.  
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
Head of Corporate Assurance 
31 May 2019
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  
www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that 
ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent 
assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes 
are designed and implemented to ensure that the work 
we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of 
interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken 
this engagement work have provided no consultancy related 
services to this client in any respect. Our observations
We have provided J&J with a separate management report 
with our detailed findings and recommendations. 2018 Health for Humanity Report 140
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Engagement Summary
Scope of our 
assurance 
engagement Whether the consolidated progress for the three year period ending 31 December 2018 against the 2020 
targets as presented in the 2018 SDG Progress Scorecard on page 18 to 20 in the 2018 Health for Humanity 
Report (the Report) and on jnj.com is fairly presented, in all material respects. 
Reporting 
criteria The 2020 targets (under Vision 2030) as described in the Progress Scorecard.
Assurance 
StandardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 
3000 Revised).
Assurance level Limited assurance. 
Respective 
responsibilitiesJ&J is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the information 
within it. ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance 
activities performed and on exercising our professional judgement.ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was 
engaged by Johnson & Johnson (J&J) to provide limited 
assurance on the consolidated 2016 to 2018 progress against 
the Company’s 2020 Targets related to its SDG 2030 vision 
and aspirations as presented in the Johnson & Johnson 2018 
Health for Humanity Report and on jnj.com.   
Our conclusion
Based on our assurance activities, nothing has come to our 
attention to indicate that the consolidated 2016 to 2018 progress 
reported against the 2020 SDG targets in the SDG Progress 
Scorecard as presented on page 18 to 20 in the Report is not, in 
all material respects, fairly presented.  
 
 
Our assurance activities
The reliability of the assured information is subject to 
inherent uncertainties, given the nature of the ambitious 
J&J aspirations and targets and the dependence on partner 
organisations to deliver programs and provide performance 
information, as well as the use of estimates, assumptions 
and extrapolations to report progress. J&J describes these 
uncertainties in the ‘Challenges of reporting and assuring 
progress against the SDG goals’ on page 20 of the Report. It 
is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this 
context. Regarding the information on jnj.com, we provide 
no assurance over changes to the content of the web-based 
information after the date of this assurance statement.  
 ▪A review of the 2020 SDG goal definitions, underlying 
programs and reporting guidance, where available. 
 ▪A visit to J&J Corporate Offices in New Brunswick, NJ 
and a number of conference calls in order to:
 ▫interview J&J management representatives to 
understand the Vision 2030 strategy and the Independent Assurance Statement 
UN Sustainable Development Commitment Progress2018 Health for Humanity Report 141
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
philosophy behind the goals and 2020 targets;
 ▫understand and evaluate the systems and 
processes used to manage the performance 
commitments, related programs and associated 
partner organisations, and monitor progress 
against these; 
 ▫interview goal owners and business unit 
representatives involved in collecting, evaluating 
and reporting progress against the 2020 targets. 
 ▪Interviews with selected J&J Partners responsible for 
delivering programs and providing the data used to 
report the 2016 to 2018 progress towards the targets. 
 ▪A review of completeness and the consolidation of the 
program results for 2016 to 2018 for each target in order 
to reduce the risk of double counting and to understand 
assumptions as well as overlaps with some of the J&J 
Health for Humanity 2020 goals for which we undertook 
a separate assurance engagement.
 ▪A review ofthe explanatory notes in the ‘Notable’ 
column in the SDG Progress Scorecard and in the 
section on ‘The Challenges of reporting and assuring 
progress against the SDG goals’ to ensure consistency 
with our findings.
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
Head of Corporate Assurance 
31 May 2019
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  
www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that 
ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent 
assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes 
are designed and implemented to ensure that the work 
we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of 
interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken 
this engagement work have provided no consultancy related 
services to this client in any respect. 2018 Health for Humanity Report 142
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Engagement Summary
Scope of our 
assurance 
engagement Whether the corporate 2018 data* for the following selected indicators are fairly presented, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria: 
• Total absolute Scope 1 GHG emissions in tonnes of CO2e
• Total absolute Scope 2 GHG emissions in tonnes of CO2e reported using the location based and 
market based methods
• Total absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions in tonnes of CO2e for the following categories:
 ▫Purchased goods and services
 ▫Capital goods
 ▫Fuel and energy related activities (Transmission and distribution losses (T&D) losses only)
 ▫Upstream transportation and distribution
 ▫Waste generated in operations (Non-hazardous waste only)
 ▫Business Travel
 ▫Upstream Leased Assets
 ▫Downstream transportation and distribution for US operations (from the EPA SmartWay 
program)
• Total NOx and SOx from facility combustion sources in tonnes
• Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources
Reporting 
criteria The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004) and the Johnson & Johnson Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory 
Worldwide Energy Management Technical Resources & Compliance (9 January 2019)
Assurance 
StandardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 
3000 (Revised). 
Assurance level Limited assurance. 
Respective 
responsibilitiesJ&J is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in the Report to third parties, 
including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.  
ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities 
performed and exercising our professional judgement.ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was 
engaged by Johnson and Johnson (J&J) to provide assurance 
in relation to the information set out below and presented on 
pages 16, and 124 to 125 in the Johnson & Johnson 2018 Health 
for Humanity Report and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com.   
Our conclusion
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to 
indicate that the following selected 2018 corporate metrics* are 
not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the Reporting 
Criteria. This conclusion is to be read in the context of the 
remainder of this report, in particular the information in the 
emphasis of matter and inherent limitations paragraphs below.
Scope 1 GHG emissions: 445,054 tCO2e    
Scope 2 GHG (location-based) emissions: 680,326 tCO2e 
Scope 2 GHG (market-based) emissions: 550,480 tCO2e
Scope 3 GHG emissions for the following categories: 
 Independent Assurance Statement 
GHG Emissions Data
•     Purchased goods and services 8,826,462 tCO2e
•     Capital goods 271,422 tCO2e
•     Fuel and energy related activities  
       (Transmission and distribution  
       losses only)50,821 tCO2e
•     Upstream transportation and  
       distribution2,039,872 tCO2e
•     Waste generated in operations  
       (Non-hazardous waste only)2,983 tCO2e
•     Business Travel 775,747 tCO2e2018 Health for Humanity Report 143
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
 
Emphasis of matter
Without affecting our conclusion, which is not modified, 
we draw attention to the explanatory notes provided by 
J&J relating to the data on page 124 of the Report, in 
particular the limitations relating to the 2018 data* for 
the Scope 3 categories 5, 6 and 9 on page 125 of the 2018 
J&J Health for Humanity Report which should be read in 
conjunction with the data.
Our assurance activities  
Our objective was to assess whether the assured emission 
data are reported in accordance with the principles of 
completeness, comparability (across the organisation) 
and accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate 
conversion factors and consolidation).  We planned and 
performed our work to obtain all the information and 
explanations that we believe were necessary to provide 
a basis for our assurance conclusions. We applied a 5% 
material error threshold. 
A team of GHG and assurance specialists performed the 
following key activities: 
• Interviews with relevant staff to understand internal 
reporting processes, including the use of its GHG 
Management Plan, internal spreadsheets, and its 
various internal data management and reporting 
systems;• A review of samples of primary data such as invoices;
• A review of the calculations undertaken, including 
conversion factors and emission factors used; 
• A review of estimates, extrapolations and 
assumptions made in relation to the data for relevant 
GHG Scope 3 categories, and
• An analytical review of the consolidated 2018 year 
end data* for each metric.
The limitations of our engagement  
The reliability of the assured information is subject to 
inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for 
determining, calculating or estimating the underlying 
information. It is important to understand our assurance 
conclusions in this context. Our work was undertaken 
remotely. We did not undertake source data verification at 
any operated facilities.
Our Observations 
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate 
management report with our detailed (non-material) 
findings and recommendations. Without affecting the 
conclusions presented above, we have the following key 
observation:
• Johnson & Johnson should document both 
qualitatively and quantitatively their uncertainty 
information for each GHG Scope 3 category, and 
describe their efforts to record uncertainty in future 
revisions of the Scope 3 emissions inventory. 
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
Head of Corporate Assurance 
31 May 2019
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  
www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that 
ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent 
assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes 
are designed and implemented to ensure that the work 
we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of 
interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken 
this engagement work have provided no consultancy related 
services to this client in any respect. 
* For Scope 3 Downstream transportation and distribution we 
assured the 2017 data.•     Upstream Leased Assets 39,981 tCO2e
•     Downstream transportation and  
       distribution (from the EPA  
       SmartWay program)45,850 tCO2e2018 Health for Humanity Report 144
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Better Health For All
1 https://www.hiv.gov/hiv-basics/ overview/ data-and-trends/ global-statistics
2 http://www.genderhealth.org/files/uploads/ change/publications/CHANGE_AGYW_data_brief.pdf
3  https://www.hiv.gov/federal-response/pepfar-global-aids/ global-hiv-aids-overview
4  http://www.unaids.org/ en/resources/presscentre/pressreleaseandstatementarchive/2018/july/miles-to-go
5 https://www.who.int/ en/news-room/fact-sheets/ detail/tuberculosis
6  https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/ detail/tuberculosis
7  https://www.tballiance.org/why-new-tb-drugs/antimicrobial-resistance
8  Bedaquiline was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration based on Phase 2b clinical trial data for use as part of combination therapy in adults (>/= 18 years) with pulmonary MDR-TB, when an effective 
 treatment regimen cannot otherwise be provided.
9 https:// extranet.who.int/sree/Reports?op=Replet&name=/WHO_HQ_Reports/G2/PROD/EXT/TBCountryProfile&ISO2=VN&outtype=pdf
10  https://www.who.int/neglected_diseases/ diseases/ en/ 
11 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/ detail/soil-transmitted-helminth-infections
12  https://www.who.int/ emergencies/ten-threats-to-global-health-in-2019
13  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5398308/
14  SPRAVATO [Prescribing Information]. Titusville, N.J., Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.2 Duman RS. F1000Research. 2018; 7:F1000.
15  Dubovsky SL. Psychother and Psychosom. 2018; 87:129-139.
16  Rush AJ et al. Am J Psychiatry. 2006;163(11):1905-1917.
17 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/ detail/influenza-(seasonal)
18 https://amr-review.org/sites/ default/files/AMR%20Review%20Paper%20-%20Tackling%20a%20crisis%20for%20the%20health%20and%20wealth%20of%20nations_1.pdf
19  http://reports.weforum.org/ global-risks-2018/anti-microbial-resistance/?doing_wp_cron=1555504260.8589730262756347656250
20  https://www.who.int/news-room/ detail/13-12-2017-world-bank-and-who-half-the-world-lacks-access-to-essential-health-services-100-million-still-pushed-into-extreme-poverty-because-of-health-expenses
21 Includes employees classified under job functions of R&D and Engineering.
22 American Cancer Society. “Cancer Facts & Figures 2018.” 2018.  
 https://www.cancer.org/ content/ dam/ cancer-org/research/ cancer-facts-and-statistics/annual-cancer-facts-and-figures/2018/ cancer-facts-and-figures-2018.pdf
23 World Health Organization (WHO), "Hepatitis B." July 2018. http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs204/ en/ .
24 Yuen, Man-Fung, Keven Liu, Bruce D. Given, Thomas Schluep, James Hamilton, Ching-Lung Lai, Stephen A. Locarnini, Kathy Jackson, Johnson Y .N. Lau, Carlo Ferrari, and Robert G. Gish. “RNA Interference Therapy   
 with ARC-520 Injection Results in Long Term Off-therapy Antigen Reductions in Treatment Naïve, HBeAg Positive and Negative Patients with Chronic HBV. Poster #FRI-362.” EASL 2018, April 11-15, 2018. Paris, France.   
 http://ir.arrowheadpharma.com/static-files/5b205068-35a4-41c9-942e-cb5ed100c2b2
25 American College of Surgeons and Surgical Infection Society: Surgical Site Infection Guidelines, 2016 Update Ban, Kristen A. et al. Journal of the American College of Surgeons, Volume 224, Issue 1, 59-74.
26 The programs listed in this section are funded through a variety of entities, including the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, the Johnson & Johnson Corporate Citizenship Trust, Johnson & Johnson corporate functions   
 and the operating companies across our three business segments.
27  https://www.unicef.org/media/media_71508.html
28  The programs listed in this section are funded through a variety of entities, including the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, Global Public Health and the operating companies across our three business segments.
29  Our partnership with Save the Children reflects strategic impact investments from our Johnson & Johnson Foundation and Johnson & Johnson Corporate Citizenship Trust, as well as marketing programs such as
 Wisdom by Kids supported by Corporate funding and engagements with our brands (e.g., JOHNSON'S Baby) on educational programs.
30  Johnson & Johnson Foundation, Johnson & Johnson Corporate Citizenship Trust and the Johnson & Johnson Patient Assistance Foundation are independent, non-profit organizations.References2018 Health for Humanity Report 145
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Our People
31 Millennial Careers: 2020 Vision, Manpower Group, 2016.
32 Represents the proportion of employees in Manager and above job categories who in their career progression movement (including upward promotion, downward demotion, or lateral transfer) crossed function,  
 country or business segment lines.
Responsible Business Practices
33 Based on average cumulative volume of ingredients in washes, lotions, shampoos and conditioners using ISO/DIS 16128 (water included).
34  Our high-risk country classification is based on a list of countries that we establish and update regularly using various external sources of information such as the U.S. Department of State Travel Warnings, the World   
 Bank’s country ranking on Worldwide Governance Indicators, the United Nations Human Development Index, and Transparency International’s Corrupt Perception Index.
35 We define a critical finding as evidence of very high risk to human life or potential catastrophic impact to facility, community or environment. We expect suppliers and potential suppliers to address critical findings   
 immediately.
36  A technical visit is a follow-up visit to the initial audit.
Environmental Health
37 http://www3.weforum.org/ docs/WEF_Global_Risks_Report_2019.pdf
38 According to a report by Burek et al. quoted in the United Nations Water Fact Sheet: http://www.unwater.org/water-facts/scarcity/
39 Each EARTHWARDS recognition is as compared to the previous version of the product.
40 SURGICEL Absorbable Hemostat Instructions for Use.
41 SURGICEL EARTHWARDS, S. Ramcharitar, C. Gruel, November 2018.2018 Health for Humanity Report 146
Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Overview Our People Our Approach Appendix References Environmental Health
Contact us
WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com  
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza  
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933  
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com  
jnj.com2018 Health for Humanity Report
Progress in Citizenship & Sustainability
Front Cover: Every day 1,000 adolescent girls and young women are infected with HIV in sub-Saharan Africa, having a disproportionate impact on their 
lives and preventing them from fulfilling their potential. That’s why we launched DREAMS Thina Abantu Abasha (Zulu for "We the Youth"), a youth-led and 
implemented peer-to-peer program, with PEPFAR and UNFPA in some of the worst HIV hotspots to reduce HIV infections among girls 15 – 24 years old. This 
is part of our longstanding Company-wide commitment to make HIV history. Learn more at www.jnj.com/hiv. Photo by Jonathan Burton.