2019 Health for Humanity Report
Progress in SustainabilityContents
About Johnson & Johnson  
At-A-Glance                
Message from Our Chairman and CEO  
2019 Year in Brief  
 
Our Approach  
Health for Humanity Strategy & Progress  
2020 Goals Progress Scorecard  
UN SDG Commitment Progress Scorecard               
Sustainability Governance  
Sustainability Priorities 
Better Health for All  
Tackling the World's Toughest Health Challenges  
Enhancing Access to Healthcare  
Contributing to Community Health  
Innovating for Better Health 
Responsible Business Practices  
Empowering People  
Product Quality, Safety & Reliability  
Ethics & Transparency  
Responsible Supply Base 
Environmental Health  
Climate Resilience  
Water & Waste Management  
Product Sustainability 
Data & Downloads  
GRI Content Index  
SASB Index  
UNGC Communication on Progress  
Data Summary  
About this Report  
Independent Assurance Statements  
References3 
3 
6 
7 
 
9 
9 
10 
15 
19 
20
21 
23 
33 
39 
45
52 
54 
70 
75 
82
89 
91 
96 
99
102 
103 
103 
103 
103 
104 
105 
120
UNICEF, the Government of Vietnam and Johnson & Johnson are partnering on a national program 
to train more than 500 ethnic minority midwives in remote regions to provide effective maternal and 
child health interventions including early essential newborn care in village clinics and homes.
Photo by Paul Bettings
 
Front cover 
 
Volunteers, frontline health workers and government officials at the launch of the Umurinzi 
vaccination program in Rwanda. In October 2019, Johnson & Johnson committed to donating up to 
700,000 regimens of Janssen’s investigational Ebola vaccine to support the Ebola outbreak response 
in Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Photos by Rwanda Ministry of HealthTo read this Report online, visit healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com2017 Health for Humanity Report 3
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 3
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Purpose
We blend heart, science and ingenuity to profoundly change the 
trajectory of health for humanity. 
Our Values
We are driven by Our Credo, a set of values and principles that 
challenges and inspires us to put the needs and wellbeing of the 
people we serve first.
Our Operations
We operate 97 manufacturing facilities which are located in all 
major geographic regions of the world. Research facilities are 
located in the United States, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, 
Germany, India, Israel, the Netherlands, Poland, Singapore, 
Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, with additional 
R&D support in over 30 other countries.
Our global headquarters are in New Brunswick, New Jersey, 
USA. Johnson & Johnson has been listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange since 1944 under the symbol JNJ. For changes in our 
business during the reporting period, please visit page 79 of our 
2019 Annual Report.At-A-Glance 
GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7 , 102-16About Johnson & Johnson
At Johnson & Johnson, we focus on the total health journey2017 Health for Humanity Report 4
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 4
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
2019 Financial Results
Celebrating 75 years of  
our IPO
On September 24, 1944, Johnson & Johnson was 
first listed as a publicly traded company on the New 
York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The Company was 
founded in 1886 and had already established itself 
as a successful business for almost 60 years. Taking 
it public created an opportunity for people to invest 
in a company with a vision of healthcare, expanding 
the frontiers of Johnson & Johnson geographically 
and scientifically, to deliver health and healing 
globally, propelled by significant breakthroughs in 
science, technology, and medicine.
The collective commitment and efforts of our 
global Johnson & Johnson colleagues throughout 
the decades have enabled great achievements and 
strong results, evidenced by:
• Impacting more than a billion lives every day;
• Increased dividends for the last 57 consecutive 
years;
• 36 consecutive years of adjusted operational 
earnings growth; and
• Our standing among Standard & Poor’s Top 10 
Market Cap companies.Sales by business segment: 
Pharmaceutical $42.2 billion 
Medical Devices $26.0 billion
Consumer Health $13.9 billionEmployees 1 3 7,7 0 1
R&D investment $11.4 billion 
Total sales $82.1 billion 
Net earnings $15.1 billion 
Market price per share, year-end close $145.75 
The Executive Committee and Johnson & Johnson employees on the 
NYSE podium commemorating the 75th Anniversary of our IPO.  
        History
In 1943, before taking Johnson & Johnson public, 
Robert Wood Johnson wrote Our Credo, putting 
in writing the Company's founding values so that 
they would continue to guide the organization in 
the future.2017 Health for Humanity Report 5
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 5
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Brands
 
Consumer Health
 
Pharmaceutical
 
Medical Devices
Every day, we touch more than a billion lives with our products. Following are select brands that 
represent the diversity of the Johnson & Johnson product portfolio in our three business segments, 
spanning the broad continuum of healthcare.2017 Health for Humanity Report 6
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 6
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Message from Our Chairman and CEO
GRI 102-14
Dear Johnson & Johnson Stakeholders, 
2019 was a year of profound change and great contrasts 
around the globe.
We saw unprecedented innovation and encouraging progress 
toward meeting some of the world’s most urgent health 
challenges—all while grappling with increased pressures 
on our healthcare systems, and sociopolitical upheaval that 
added complexity to coordination of public health efforts. By 
the end of 2019, while we were seeing only the first glimpses 
of the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), it 
was already evident just how necessary it was to mobilize 
resources on a global scale when combating outbreaks of 
infectious disease.  
At Johnson & Johnson, the best way forward in meeting our 
commitments to transparency and sustainability—last year, 
this year, and for many years to come—remains crystal clear. 
Simply put, we are constantly taking stock of what we are 
doing to help keep people healthy so that they can thrive 
in healthy communities on a healthy planet and prioritizing 
those actions that will have the greatest impact. We know this mission will always be unfinished, and that we 
will occasionally fall short. But that only serves as motivation 
to move faster than we’ve ever moved before in making 
bigger strides toward some of our most ambitious goals. And 
as we’ve detailed in this Report, we have plenty of positive 
momentum worth recognizing.  
Key achievements included: victories in our work toward a 
world without disease, such as major strides in preventing 
HIV and combating Ebola and TB; acceleration of patient-
centric innovation, like new 3D-printed implants designed 
to regenerate, rather than replace, diseased joints; and 
robust ongoing work to improve our communities, strengthen 
the frontline health workforce and safeguard the planet, 
including accelerating the reduction of our carbon footprint 
with four new contracts for renewably sourced electricity in 
Belgium, Ireland, Mexico and the Netherlands.
Importantly, we were able to do all of the above (and more) 
thanks to a culture of accountability, transparency and ethical 
behavior that, to me, make up the very definition of a healthy 
company.  
As you’ll see, this year’s Report highlights areas where we’ve 
already achieved our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and 
our UN Sustainable Development Goals commitments, as 
well as areas where we’re redoubling our efforts. The most 
essential feature of public reports like this must always be 
to critically assess how we’re doing—not just spotlight our 
greatest successes. 
If 2019 taught me anything, it’s that turbulent times require 
us to not just reaffirm but deepen our pledge to account for 
how we meet the long-term needs of patients, consumers, 
mothers and fathers, our communities, and our planet—a 
sentiment shared by more and more CEOs. Initiatives like 
last year’s update of the Business Roundtable Statement on 
the Purpose of a Corporation, which we were honored to 
help steer, affirmed unequivocally that there is a fundamental 
connection between serving all stakeholders and generating 
sustainable, long-term value. The demands for global healthcare and responsible corporate 
citizenship will only continue to increase, and meeting them 
will require us to not only operate with speed and agility, 
but with focus and determination. The start of this new year 
has already seen us launching a huge,  multi-pronged and 
collaborative response to combat COVID-19, the details of 
which can be found at: www.jnj.com/ coronavirus. 
I have many reasons to be optimistic that we can and will 
succeed in meeting our most critical commitments—more 
than 137,000 of them, in fact. That’s the number of talented 
Johnson & Johnson employees around the world whose 
passion and dedication serve as the ultimate engine for 
change. I’m immensely proud to be sharing this journey with 
them, and confident that all of us will do whatever it takes 
to deliver on our Company’s promises to our patients and 
consumers, our communities, and our world.
Alex Gorsky meeting with employees on his visit to Singapore in 2019Alex Gorsky
Chairman, Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer
2017 Health for Humanity Report 7
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 7
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
2019 Year in Brief
Better Health for AllResponsible  
Business PracticesEnvironmental Health
$11.4 billion  
invested in R&D
105,000 patients
provided access to HIV treatment
106,000 patients
provided access to MDR-TB treatment
$37 million
donated for disaster relief to support 
our communities
75,000 health workers  
educated in 54 countriesContinued  our fight against HIV and TB 
epidemics with an investment of $500 
million dedicated to R&D and delivery 
programs
WHO* recommended the  use of 
bedaquiline-containing treatment 
regimens for all pulmonary drug-resistant 
TB patients
Launched the first Phase 3 efficacy  
study of Janssen’s investigational HIV 
preventative vaccine  with global partners
Supported Ebola outbreak response in 
Rwanda and Democratic Republic of Congo 
by committing to donate up to 700,000 
investigational vaccine courses
Completed the first-ever mental health 
clinical study in Rwanda to help improve 
access to mental healthcare
Unveiled new Center for Health Worker 
Innovation to address global health  
worker shortage
Achieved WHO* prequalification  
for VERMOX CHEWABLE (mebendazole 
chewable 500mg tablets) to treat 
intestinal worms in children and extended 
commitment to  donate up to 1 billion 
additional doses through 2025
A child in Peru takes a VERMOX CHEWABLE tablet to 
treat intestinal worms, donated by Johnson & Johnson and 
implemented by INMED Partnerships for Children  
as part of a national mass drug administration.
43% of Manager  
and above talent  
movement
that was across function,  
country or business  
segment lines**30% of our electricity 
is produced or procured from 
renewable energy sources
32%  reduction 
in CO 2 emissions since 2010
© Norther wind farm off the coast of Belgium and the Netherlands 
provides renewable energy for our operations  
in both countries.Launched the J&J Innovation Champions 
program offering  R&D scientists a six-
month secondment to an external innovation 
organization
15,000 employees 
trained  in the 
principles of 
ENERGY FOR 
PERFORMANCE
Employees in our Seoul office 
participating in a group yoga class.
* World Health Organization
** Represents the proportion of employees in Manager and above job categories who in their career progression movement (including upward promotion, downward demotion, or lateral transfer) crossed function, country or business segment lines.Signed 4 new power purchase agreements , 
significantly advancing progress toward our 
100% renewable electricity goal
Received  CDP Climate Change and Water 
Security A  List ratings for leadership in 
environmental transparency and performance
$1.6 billion  spend with diverse suppliers46%  of management roles held by womenRanked #1 
on Gartner’s 2019 
Healthcare Supply Chain 
Top 25 list2017 Health for Humanity Report 8
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 8
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Recognitions
Achieved the TOP RANKING in Gartner Inc.’s 11th annual Healthcare Supply Chain Top 
25 ranking, which recognizes companies across the healthcare value chain, and eighth 
position in Gartner’s ranking of the top 25 large cap (>$12B) company supply chains, 
moving up 10 places to our highest-ever ranking.
Recognized for our commitment 
to R&D that helps people with 
mental illness, and for our 
longstanding support of the 
Mental Health Association in 
New Jersey (MHANJ).Named to CDP Climate 
Change and Water Security 
2019 A Lists, and scored A- 
in CDP’s Forest List.Member of the Billion
Dollar Roundtable for
supplier diversity for the 
ninth consecutive year.Ranked #3 in the 
2020 Antimicrobial 
Resistance Benchmark.
Included in the Human Rights Campaign 
Foundation’s list as a Best Place to Work for 
LGBTQ Equality for the 15th consecutive year, 
scoring 100% percent on the 2020 Corporate 
Equality Index (CEI), which measures corporate 
policies and practices related to LGBTQ 
workplace equality.
Ranked #11 in the 2019 
Workforce 100 – the world’s 
top companies for Human 
Resources Management.Named to the JUST Capital top 100 ranking in 2019, for 
the second year, ranking seventh of 43 pharmaceutical 
and biotech companies.Named to Fortune’s list of the World’s Most 
Admired Companies for the 17th year, ranking in 
the top 20. Johnson & Johnson was also placed #1 
in the pharmaceutical category worldwide for the 
sixth consecutive year.
FTSE4Good Index
Series constituent.Recognized by Forbes for the 
second consecutive year as a 
“Best Employer for Diversity.” 
Ranked #1 on Working Mother 
magazine’s annual list of the “100 
Best Companies.”Scored 90% in DisabiltyIN’s 
2019 Disability Equality 
Index for the second 
consecutive year. 
Honored with CSR Health Impact’s Swasth Bharat 
award in recognition of Janssen India’s transformative 
work to address the growing challenge of multidrug-
resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB).Named among the Top 100 Companies in 
Equileap’s 2019 Gender Equality Global 
Report and Ranking, which recognizes the 
leading companies globally making progress 
toward gender equality in the workplace. Received the EPA SmartWay Excellence Award for 
the sixth year. This award recognizes companies 
that are leaders in increasing energy efficiency 
while decreasing greenhouse gas emissions.
Named as the Operational 
Fleet Superstar at the 
inaugural Great British 
Fleet Awards for  
Johnson & Johnson UK’s 
Safe Fleet team’s Caring 
About People program.
Recognized by the American Heart Association at Gold Level for 
workplace health programs and culture of health best practices.Named to the global #LinkedIn Top 
Companies 2019 as one of the world’s 
most sought-after employers.
Johnson & Johnson was the only 
healthcare company to be featured in the 
U.S. list.
Inducted into DiversityInc’s 
prestigious Top 50 Hall of 
Fame, one of six companies 
included to date, after 
ranking #1 in DiversityInc’s 
2018 Top 50 Ranking. 
2020
2017 Health for Humanity Report 9
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 9
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
As the world’s largest healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson has 
a unique ability to apply its expertise and partnering power to solve 
some of the most difficult global health challenges. We are advancing 
a world where healthy people thrive in healthy communities on a 
healthy planet, and having a healthy company helps us get there. 
We focus our sustainability efforts where we believe our Company 
can achieve the greatest impact. Our Health for Humanity 2020 
Goals are aligned with Johnson & Johnson's purpose and reflect the 
areas where our stakeholders expect us to lead.
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a global framework 
for progress toward a more sustainable future. In trying to determine 
the ways in which Johnson & Johnson can contribute to the global 
community to create a healthier, more equitable world, we developed 
a clear, pragmatic process for building a commitment to accelerate 
the SDGs that reflects our unique constellation of strengths.Our Approach
Scientists reviewing cell samples in the Analytical Development lab at Janssen Sciences Ireland in Cork, Ireland.Health for Humanity 
Strategy & Progress 2017 Health for Humanity Report 10
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 10
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard
GOAL 2020 TARGET PROGRESS MADE IN 2016-2019‡ NOTABLE STATUS
1.  Develop and deliver 
innovative, life-
changing solutions 
to address the 
world’s major health 
challenges.Expand the database, documenting 
the effectiveness, efficacy and safety 
profile of SIRTURO (bedaquiline)
through collaborative efforts to further 
increase access.Data from the expanded patient database allowed 
for publication on effectiveness, efficacy and 
safety of SIRTURO in two peer-reviewed journals 
in 2018.We achieved this target in 2018. Achieved
Collaborate on Phase 3 trials and make 
regulatory submissions for rilpivirine 
long-acting (LA), the first all-injectable 
depot regimen for HIV.Regulatory submissions were made:
• One submission to the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) by ViiV Healthcare 
for ViiV’s cabotegravir LA together with 
Janssen’s rilpivirine LA. 
• Two parallel submissions to the European 
Medicines Agency—one for rilpivirine LA by 
Janssen and one for cabotegravir LA by ViiV 
Healthcare. Achieved
2.  Deliver innovative 
healthcare access 
and training 
programs that 
impact a billion 
lives in underserved 
areas.*Produce and donate 1 billion doses of 
VERMOX (mebendazole) to treat >100 
million children per year at risk for 
intestinal worms.0.8 billion doses of VERMOX donated in 42 
countries with 415 million children having been 
targeted for treatment.Cumulatively 1.6 billion doses of VERMOX donated since 
2006.  On trackExceeded  
Achieved  
On track: expected to meet the Goal by 2020  
In progress: so far progressing more slowly than expected; plans are in place to meet the Goal by 2020  
Off track: not progressing as expected; currently at risk of not meeting the Goal by 2020The following Scorecard provides an update on progress we have made against our 2020 Goals.
* “Underserved” refers to populations that are disadvantaged because of ability to pay, ability to access care, ability to access comprehensive healthcare, or other disparities for reasons of race, religion, language group or social status.
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.2017 Health for Humanity Report 11
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 11
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
GOAL 2020 TARGET PROGRESS MADE IN 2016-2019‡ NOTABLE STATUS
Deliver HIV/AIDS therapy access to a 
cumulative 130,000 adults and 5,000 
children.104,000 adult patients and over 700 pediatric 
patients received access to HIV/AIDS therapy with 
the branded and generic versions of PREZISTA 
(darunavir), INTELENCE (etravirine) and EDURANT 
(rilpivirine).* • The estimates of the number of patients receiving access 
are based on the best available therapy access models 
developed by our Global Public Health team leveraging 
published epidemiologic and population data.
• Healthcare systems in resource-limited settings face 
considerable challenges in identifying and treating HIV 
in pediatric and adolescent patients, including lack of 
laboratory testing and limited technical capacity for 
switching patients to suitable antiretroviral regimens. 
Several activities we planned for 2020 will help address 
these challenges and potentially increase the number of 
pediatric and adolescent patients we will reach. In progress
Deliver access to MDR-TB therapy 
to a cumulative 200,000 patients, 
potentially curing** 157,000 people*** 
with MDR-TB of the disease.182,000 patients received access to MDR-TB 
therapy with SIRTURO (bedaquiline). For 37,000 
patients provided access in 2016 and 2017, 
an estimated 32,000 patients*** have been 
potentially cured based on the 87.8% cure rate.**More patients can now benefit from SIRTURO: in 2019, 
the World Health Organization recommended the use of 
bedaquiline-containing treatment regimens for all pulmonary 
drug-resistant TB patients, and we received FDA approval 
to extend the indication for SIRTURO as part of combination 
therapy for eligible MDR-TB patients to include adolescents 
12 to 18 years of age in the United States.  On track
Together with partners, train 30,000 
skilled birth attendants to assist 6 
million births.Together with partners, trained 74,000 birth 
attendants, who assisted in 6 million births. Exceeded
Support the delivery of 6 million 
eye care screenings to underserved 
children and corrective treatments 
(spectacles) as needed to 100,000 
underserved children.In partnership with Lions Club International, 
supported delivery of 12 million eye care 
screenings and corrective treatments (spectacles) 
to 120,000 underserved children.Progress in 2019 is estimated based on delivery of eye 
screenings and corrective treatments (spectacles) in 2018. 
Actual 2019 data is available after our report data collection 
cut-off date. Achieved
* We revised our calculation methodology to increase accuracy and now report on a 12-month rolling average, which includes a 1.25% wastage and a 75% adherence factor.
** The cure rate is 87.8% for patients treated with bedaquiline-containing regimens, based on The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, Volume 392, September 2018, Pages 821-834.
*** As communicated through the product label, SIRTURO is taken for six months as part of a combination therapy with multiple other drugs; in total, a patient often requires up to two years of treatment to be cured.
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.2017 Health for Humanity Report 12
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 12
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
GOAL 2020 TARGET PROGRESS MADE IN 2016-2019‡ NOTABLE STATUS
3.  Collaborate with 
government, 
nonprofit and 
private sector to 
foster new models 
of health that 
improve economic 
wellbeing and 
healthcare in key 
emerging markets.Activate signature partnerships/
initiatives for five of our largest 
Consumer Health brands to promote 
the health and wellbeing of people in 
need around the world.BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages activated 
the partnership with (RED) to help fund a 
diverse range of lifesaving HIV/AIDS programs 
across eight countries in sub-Saharan Africa. 
In prior years we activated partnerships with 
JOHNSON’S, LISTERINE, and STAYFREE.  On track
Drive policy thought leadership and 
strategic engagements to expand 
healthcare access and coverage 
in at least three emerging markets 
(including Brazil, China and India), and 
lead three to five pilots to demonstrate 
the results of these efforts.• More than 800 engagements conducted 
with government officials and other partners 
in Brazil, China, Malaysia, Mexico, Russia 
and Rwanda in 2019.  
• Existing pilot projects to expand healthcare 
access and coverage in Brazil, China, 
Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, Philippines, 
Russia and Rwanda are ongoing. 
• Two new pilots launched: a private health 
insurance project in Malaysia to expand 
access to innovative medicines and premium 
surgical products; and a project in China to 
improve the case finding and diagnosis of 
TB, including drug-resistant TB.  On track
4.  Fully integrate 
sustainable design 
solutions into our 
product innovation 
processes.New and existing products 
representing 20% of                    
Johnson & Johnson revenue achieve 
EARTHWARDS recognition for 
sustainable innovation improvements.New and existing products representing 22% 
of Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved 
EARTHWARDS recognition.* Exceeded
* Based on availability of data, the percentage includes revenue from certain products recognized in the current reporting year. This is a change in methodology compared to prior years where the percentage excluded revenue from 
products recognized in the reporting year. 
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.2017 Health for Humanity Report 13
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 13
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
* In 2018 Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc.  signed  the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment. By joining this global multistakeholder initiative, we set a new ambitious 2025 plastics packaging commitment, which supersedes 
our 2020 target. Progress against the new 2025 commitment is being reported in this section of the Health for Humanity Report. We will continue reporting our progress on helping advance material recovery and recycling efforts in 
less mature markets in this Scorecard.
** Social fingerprinting is a standardized process developed by Social Accountability International to measure and improve an organization's social performance. See more information here .
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.GOAL 2020 TARGET PROGRESS MADE IN 2016-2019‡ NOTABLE STATUS
Increase the recyclability of our 
Consumer Health product packaging 
to 90+% (on a weight basis) via design 
and partnerships in five key markets 
where mature recycling infrastructure 
exists (Canada, France, Germany, UK 
and U.S).* In three other markets where 
recycling infrastructure is less mature 
engage in partnerships to advance 
material recovery and recycling efforts.Continued partnerships with two co-ops in Brazil 
and one in India to advance material recovery and 
recycling efforts. 
Concluded the partnership in Vietnam focused on 
ocean plastics through Consumer Goods Forum 
and Trash Free Seas Alliance.The main focus in 2019 was to advance our inclusive 
recycling model in Brazil by:
• collaborating with other companies through the 
Inclusive Waste Recycling Consortium (iWrc)
• identifying additional co-ops to expand the network of 
co-ops that have been socially fingerprinted**
• initiating development of a digital marketplace to help 
provide traceability of recycled materials recovered by 
socially fingerprinted** co-ops as they move through 
the system  On track
5.  Reduce our impacts 
on climate and 
water resources.Reduce absolute carbon emissions 20% 
by 2020, and 80% by 2050.CO2 emissions decreased by 32% globally since 
2010 (Scope 1 and Scope 2). Achieved
Produce/procure 35% of electricity 
from renewable sources by 2020; 
aspire to power all facilities with 
renewable energy by 2050.30% of our electricity is produced or procured 
from renewable energy sources.  On track
Conduct a comprehensive water risk 
assessment at 100% of manufacturing/
R&D locations and implement resource 
protection plans at the high-risk sites.We completed the comprehensive water risk 
assessment at 100% of manufacturing/R&D 
locations in 2019.
By the end of 2019, 100% of all high-risk sites 
identified developed mitigation plans and 
budgeted for their implementation in 2020; 35% 
of these have already completed their mitigation 
plans.Newly acquired sites are assessed within three full calendar 
years post-acquisition.  On track2017 Health for Humanity Report 14
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 14
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
GOAL 2020 TARGET PROGRESS MADE IN 2016-2019‡ NOTABLE STATUS
6.  Collaborate with 
our suppliers 
to accelerate 
environmental 
and social 
improvements 
across the value 
chain.Enroll suppliers covering 80% of our 
spend* in our Sustainable Procurement 
Program.Enrolled suppliers covering approximately 71% of 
spend** in our Sustainable Procurement Program.  On track
Consistently achieve benchmark 
spending with U.S. diverse suppliers 
and small suppliers, and double the 
number of countries with established 
supplier diversity and inclusion 
programs.***• Exceeded benchmark diverse supplier 
spending at 11% and benchmark small 
supplier spending at 18% of total U.S. spend.
• Expanded our supplier diversity and 
inclusion programs to three additional 
countries (France, Indonesia and Singapore) 
for a total of 16 countries against the 
baseline of six.The 16 countries outside the United States where we have 
started diverse supplier tracking are: Australia, Belgium, 
Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, France, Germany, 
Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, 
Switzerland and UK.  On track
7.  Empower and 
engage the   
Johnson & Johnson 
family of employees 
to become 
the healthiest 
workforce.Empower and engage employees 
toward a “personal best” in health 
and wellbeing via: training of at least 
100,000 employees in the principles 
of ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE;**** 
connecting at least 100,000 employees 
to their health via innovative digital 
health tools; and providing access to at 
least 100,000 employees to both fully 
implemented***** healthy eating and 
fully implemented healthy movement 
cultures.• 65,000 employees completed ENERGY FOR 
PERFORMANCE training.
• 112,000 employees engaged in health and 
wellbeing via the use of digital health tools 
since 2016.
• 120,000 and 113,000 employees provided 
access to 85% implemented healthy 
eating and healthy movement cultures, 
respectively.93,000 employees have completed the principles of ENERGY 
FOR PERFOMANCE training since the start of the program, 
representing 93% progress against our 2020 target of 
training 100,000 employees.**** We achieved our goal 
to connect at least 100,000 employees to their health via 
innovative digital health tools by 2020.  On track
* Based on spend data from prior calendar year.
** Based on spend data from 2017.
*** Total spend represents addressable spend, i.e., products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
**** We count our 28,000 active employees who completed ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE training prior to January 1, 2016, toward progress against this target.
***** Defined as 100% implementation of policies, programs and practices for both healthy eating and healthy movement.
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.2017 Health for Humanity Report 15
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 15
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
ASPIRATION5-YEAR TARGET
(2016-2020)PROGRESS FOR 2016-2019‡ 
implementation yearsNOTABLE
 1.   Health Workforce: A world 
where the current and future 
healthcare workforce has 
the necessary competencies 
to deliver high-quality 
healthcare.650,000 health workers will have 
received training to better deliver 
quality healthcare.469,000 healthcare providers  
(72% of overall goal achieved)
  In progressPrograms and partners — including a Mental Health Remote  
Training System in Rwanda and Medical Affairs training courses, 
as well as UNICEF, Save the Children, NurseConnect,  
Duke — Johnson & Johnson Nurse Leadership Program and Project 
Hope — focused on strengthening primary and community-based health 
systems by supporting effective, innovative and scalable interventions 
to ensure that nurses, midwives and community health workers are 
competent, confident, resilient, connected and respected. 
Learn moreUN Sustainable Development Goals 
Commitment Progress Scorecard
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a global framework for progress toward a more sustainable future. In trying to 
determine the unique impact Johnson & Johnson would contribute to the global community to create a healthier, more equitable 
world, we developed a clear, pragmatic process to create a commitment to accelerate the SDGs that reflects our unique constellation 
of strengths. The Company’s commitment is focused in five areas in which Johnson & Johnson is positioned to create sustainable and 
scalable impact: health workforce, women’s and children’s health, essential surgery, global disease challenges, and environmental health. 
We aim to mobilize and inspire employees, consumers, communities, and our global network to improve health globally. While 
we aim to achieve outcomes in all of the Company’s work, the identified targets for the SDG commitment are reflective of the 
Company’s reach—individuals whose lives may benefit from our combined efforts with our partners. To that end, we developed a 
measurement-reporting framework that involves the annual tracking of progress toward focus area targets, ensuring accountability 
of our work. The Company’s SDG commitment focuses on SDGs 3, 5 and 17. Learn more here. 
Exceeded  
Achieved  
On track: expected to meet the Goal by 2020  
In progress: so far progressing more slowly than expected; plans are in place to meet the Goal by 2020  
Off track: not progressing as expected; currently at risk of not meeting the Goal by 2020
‡ Progress against UN SDG commitment, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.  2017 Health for Humanity Report 16
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 16
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
ASPIRATION5-YEAR TARGET
(2016-2020)PROGRESS FOR 2016-2019‡ 
Implementation yearsNOTABLE
2.  Women’s & Children’s 
Health: A world where 
every woman and child 
survives and has the 
opportunity for a healthy 
future.  60 million women and children will 
have received support and tools to 
enable a healthy future.40.6 million women and children  
(68% of overall goal achieved )
        Off trackThis five-year target is predominantly supported by  
Johnson & Johnson Foundation grants facilitated by the Global 
Community Impact organization. We are reporting the target as off track 
due to a shift in our strategy in 2019 which transitions from programs 
reaching consumer groups directly to programs targeting frontline health 
workers (i.e., nurses, midwives, and community health workers). We 
believe this transition will have greater, more far-reaching and sustainable 
impact on women's and children’s lives in the longer term. The COVID-19 
pandemic has underscored the critical needs facing our frontline health 
workers and their unique ability to address the healthcare needs of 
our society, and in particular, the underserved. Our new commitment  
acknowledges the pivotal role that health workers play in providing 
essential services to these groups. As such, the programming and 
tracking toward the original goal are transitioning, with fewer programs 
directly reaching women and children and more programs reaching the 
health workers who serve them. 
Even with this transition, by the end of the five-year goal period we 
estimate that we will have reached nearly 50 million women and 
children with support and tools to enable a healthy future (or over 80% 
of the overall target). 
We are proud to share that within our Global Disease Challenges goal, 
our VERMOX (mebendazole) Donation Program has improved the 
health of hundreds of millions of children. Those targets are reported 
separately. 
Learn more
3.  Essential Surgery: A world 
where safe, essential and 
timely surgical care can 
be accessed by all to save 
lives, prevent disability, 
promote economic 
growth, and reduce social 
marginalization.  50 million people will have had access 
to safe, essential and timely surgical 
care.56.2 million beneficiaries  
(112% of overall goal achieved)
 ExceededOver the past four years, the Medical and Surgical Skills Institute 
trained more than 30,000 healthcare professionals from 10 countries in 
West Africa. It is estimated that these trained individuals will serve over 
56 million patients. 
Learn more 
‡ Progress against UN SDG commitment, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.  2017 Health for Humanity Report 17
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 17
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
ASPIRATION5-YEAR TARGET
(2016-2020)PROGRESS FOR 2016-2019‡ 
Implementation yearsNOTABLE
4.  Global Disease 
Challenges: A world where 
innovations and holistic 
health solutions prevent, 
control and eliminate 
global disease challenges 
and epidemics. 175 million individuals will have 
benefited from Johnson & Johnson 
solutions that prevent, control and 
eliminate global diseases.417 million beneficiaries  
(238% of overall goal achieved)
  Exceeded Johnson & Johnson’s VERMOX Donation Program was the primary 
driver for exceeding this goal early, with an estimated 415 million 
school-aged children in 42 countries having received VERMOX 
treatments.
• An estimated 104,000 adult patients and over 700 child patients 
received access to HIV/AIDS therapy.
• Since 2016, we enabled access to SIRTURO (bedaquiline) in 138 
countries, including all 30 high MDR-TB burden countries, and 
delivered access to 182,000 patients.
Learn More
5.  Environmental Health: A 
world where all people have 
healthy places to live, work 
and play. 60 million citizens living across 30 
cities will have benefited from climate 
and air quality actions that have the 
potential to positively impact public 
health.43.3 million citizens impacted through 2019
30 cities in the program have been trained, and 
have committed to implementing at least one 
climate action relating to air quality improvements 
and health co-benefits.
• 14 cities have already significantly 
implemented actions: Barcelona, Buenos 
Aires, Chennai, Dar es Salaam, Dubai, 
Durban, Karachi, Medellin, Paris, Quezon 
City, Quito, Salvador, Toronto and Venice.
• Johnson & Johnson continues to fund a 
city advisor for Los Angeles in its role as a 
“demonstrator” city undertaking multiple 
climate actions.
  On trackCities:
Amman, Jordan
Athens, Greece
Auckland, New Zealand
Barcelona, Spain
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Chengdu, China
Chennai, India
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Dubai, UAE
Durban, South Africa
Hanoi, Vietnam
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Istanbul, Turkey
Jakarta, Indonesia
Johannesburg, South Africa
Learn MoreKarachi, Pakistan
Lima, Peru
Los Angeles, USA
Medellin, Colombia
Mexico City, Mexico
Nairobi, Kenya
Paris, France
Quezon City, Philippines
Quito, Ecuador
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Salvador, El Salvador
Santiago, Chile
Toronto, Canada
Rome, Italy
Venice, Italy
‡ Progress against UN SDG commitment, and associated data have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.  2017 Health for Humanity Report 18
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 18
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Challenges of reporting and assuring progress against the 
SDG goals
Collaboration is at the heart of the SDGs – these ambitious 
goals cannot be achieved by one party alone but involve 
governments, business and communities working together to 
achieve significant sustainability impacts and improvements 
to people’s lives. We believe our commitment to partnership 
and collaboration helps us to achieve extraordinary results 
even though quantifying impacts and benefits across many 
partnerships is complex. 
We have therefore reported and sought assurance on the 
progress against the five-year targets that support our SDG 
goals. We have reported on progress based on the best 
information we have available, from our operations and those 
of our partners. However, we recognize that because of the 
nature of the projects supporting the targets, the data are 
subject to limitations including estimates, extrapolations and 
reliance on information provided by a broad range of partners 
we work with to achieve these goals. For certain goals, 
assumptions are used that could result in an overstatement 
or understatement of beneficiaries when we are trying 
to quantify performance in challenging environments. 
The information below provides our stakeholders with 
some insight into the challenges of reporting SDG goal 
performance.    
Health Workforce, Women’s and Children’s Health 
Many of our programs are co-funded, and while we 
make every effort to report only beneficiaries/healthcare 
professionals reached by our portion of the program, 
sometimes that is not possible. We do not have a direct line 
of sight to the data collection processes, as the data are 
gathered by our partners on the ground. Some of our partners 
have data quality assurance protocols, but some do not. For 
the purposes of our reporting, we assume each pregnant 
woman bears one infant—we do not use an estimation factor 
to discount for stillbirths or add for multiple births. For our 
goals, we count the number of individuals reached per year, 
aggregated over five years. This means that for some multi-
year programs, where a similar population of individuals 
is reached but the data systems are not strong enough to 
track each individual’s interaction with the program over the 
years, we do not always report unique individuals reached. We also do not have 100% reporting as some data come in 
after organizational publication deadlines, which means we 
may have some undercounting. To remedy this, we have 
reduced the amount of time the partners have to report post-
project completion. However, because of their organizational 
processes and difficulties obtaining timely data from remote 
areas in some cases, some partners report after our auditing 
deadline. Their data are reported in subsequent years.  
Essential Surgery
A large part of the data and progress for this goal comes from 
the work we undertake with the Medical and Surgical Skills 
Institute (MSSI) in Ghana. The MSSI reports the numbers, 
nationalities and disciplines of medical professionals that 
complete each MSSI course. However, estimating the number 
of patients benefiting from the skills and knowledge obtained 
in a course requires the use of estimates and extrapolations 
to account for the number of patients treated per week, 
potential duplicate visits (e.g., same patient being seen by a 
doctor and a nurse trained by the MSSI), and the retention 
time for the knowledge gained. We use conservative 
estimates for knowledge retention (one year) and have not 
included the potential multiplier effect of the “train-the-
trainer” progression, where trained medical professionals go 
on to train others. To further assess the methodology and the 
rates used to calculate patient beneficiaries, in 2019, the MSSI 
added two questions to the evaluation survey it conducts with 
medical professionals after each course. The two questions 
added were: 1) How many patients do you see on average in 
a week? and 2) How many patients per week would benefit 
from the skills learned in this course? The surveys covered 124 
MSSI courses and involved 2,013 individual respondents. The 
data from the survey were of good quality and consistent with 
Ghana health dynamics. The survey results substantiated the 
rates used by the MSSI. Consequently, we can confidently 
state that in 2019, MSSI training benefited 18.6 million 
patients across West Africa. 
Global Disease Challenges 
When it comes to quantifying the progress against this goal, 
a large part of the data comes from the number of VERMOX 
doses donated, measured through the number of doses 
shipped. Historical data show that about 80% – 90% of the 
children targeted for treatment in endemic countries receive two treatments each year. We thus have used a factorial of 
1.6 – 1.8 to estimate the number of children treated each year. 
The number of children treated estimated for 2016 was based 
on the factorial of 1.6. For 2017 – 2019 the figure is based on 
the factorial of 1.8.  
Environmental Health
Success in achieving the desired impact for this goal depends 
on C40 city members initiating climate actions by the end of 
2020. In order to achieve the scale of impact, actions need 
to be ambitious and, therefore, take time to develop and 
implement. C40 is working with the current administrations of 
their city members to support their planned actions. However, 
there is always a risk that actions do not get implemented 
or are altered in scale and ambition because of changes in 
city circumstances (e.g., political or funding changes). We 
will aim to manage this risk by focusing on ambitious actions 
with larger-scale impact spread across a number of cities, 
conducting careful vetting of proposed projects and making 
city participation as easy as possible.
When the Environmental Health goal was established in late 
2016, a qualifier was placed on the original target of 100 
million citizens living across 30 cities. As we noted at the 
time, those potential figures were to be revised once cities 
and actions were confirmed with C40 Cities. In 2018, these 
details were confirmed and the number of potential citizens 
benefiting was revised to 60 million over the five-year goal. 2017 Health for Humanity Report 19
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 19
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Sustainability Governance
GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-29, 102-31, 102-32
Robust governance structures with clear chains of accountability 
enable us to deliver on both our commitments and stakeholder 
expectations. Our sustainability governance includes Board 
of Directors oversight, management accountability, corporate 
policies and management systems, and clearly stated public 
policies and positions on key environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) topics. Those ESG topics are well integrated 
into our business strategy and operations. We view effective 
management of ESG matters as a business fundamental and 
seek continuous improvement in these areas because they 
underpin the long-term success of our Company and our ability 
to deliver value for our stakeholders.
The Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Governance Council (EGC) 
serves as the primary governance body overseeing ESG topics 
and supporting the Company’s Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework. The EGC is comprised of senior leaders who 
represent our Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and Consumer 
Health business segments and our global enterprise functions 
with line of sight to, and ability to impact, ESG issues. 
Throughout 2019, the EGC continued to lead initiatives to 
embed ESG considerations in business decisions. Specifically, 
the EGC provided oversight for the Company’s latest Priority 
Topics Assessment (PTA) aimed at identifying priority ESG 
topics. The Council also oversaw the establishment of the 
Enterprise Human Rights Governance Council, which reports to 
the EGC and is responsible for strengthening our approach to 
human rights due diligence and management. In July, the EGC 
kicked off the process for setting the Company’s next generation 
of sustainability goals, the Health for Humanity 2025 Goals. 
The Enterprise Governance Council Working Group (EGCWG) 
as the cross-functional “activation arm” of the EGC met four 
times in 2019 to review the status of key projects. In addition, 
the EGCWG refreshed its membership to more fully represent 
the global nature of the business. 
For further details, see our Position on Sustainability 
Governance. Engaging with our stakeholders
GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44
As a global healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson interacts 
with numerous stakeholder groups at the global, national 
and local levels. Our Credo, written more than 75 years ago, 
acknowledges the diversity of stakeholders to whom we are 
responsible, and serves as our guide to creating long-term 
value for our Company and for society. Ongoing and proactive 
engagement with these groups makes our Company stronger 
and better informed. It helps us gain valuable insight into our 
stakeholders’ perspectives and the topics that matter to them. 
It better enables us to develop products and services that are 
responsive to their needs. This engagement also allows us to 
share information about our Company’s strategy, practices and 
performance.
Stakeholder engagement on ESG: The PTA is an important 
mechanism to engage with and understand the views of our 
key stakeholders on ESG topics that they believe are priority 
for Johnson & Johnson. In 2019, we conducted our latest PTA. 
Building on learnings from prior assessments, we enhanced 
the methodology to conduct a deeper and broader stakeholder 
engagement across a larger number of applicable ESG topics.  
Throughout 2019, members of our management team met with 
a significant number of our shareholders around the world to 
discuss our Health for Humanity sustainability approach and 
our progress in key ESG measures. In June 2019, we hosted 
our second Health for Humanity Report webcast with investors 
to accompany the release of our annual Health for Humanity 
Report, providing shareholders the opportunity to engage 
and ask questions of leaders in Investor Relations, Quality 
& Compliance, Medical Safety, Global Public Health and 
Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability. 
 
Enterprise 
Risk 
Management  
Framework 
 
The Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERM) was 
updated in 2019 to align with the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of 
the Treadway Commission's 2017 ERM Framework update.  
      Highlight
Johnson & Johnson joined the Biopharma 
Sustainability Roundtable in 2019, a sector-specific 
collaboration network that helps biotech and 
pharmaceutical executives drive their sustainability 
agendas forward. We are also a member of 
the Biopharma Investor ESG Communications 
Initiative, which was set up to address the common 
interest of leading biopharmaceutical companies 
and investors in achieving more effective, efficient 
and decision-useful communications about the 
sector’s most important ESG issues.2017 Health for Humanity Report 20
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 20
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Participation in strategic initiatives:  To support dialogue 
and efforts related to the role of business in society, we 
participated in important initiatives like the Council for Inclusive 
Capitalism at The Vatican, Chief Executives for Corporate 
Purpose’s Strategic Investor Initiative and the Business 
Roundtable. In 2019, the Business Roundtable’s Corporate 
Governance Committee, of which our Chairman and CEO 
Alex Gorsky is the Chair, released a  new statement on the 
Purpose of a Corporation, affirming the commitment of more 
than 183 CEOs to lead their companies for the benefit of all 
stakeholders—customers, employees, suppliers, communities 
and shareholders. In August, Johnson & Johnson joined the 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s 
Business for Inclusive Growth coalition, which launched at the 
G7 Leaders’ Summit in France. The coalition brings together 
34 leading multinationals who have pledged to take concrete 
steps to ensure that the benefits of economic growth are widely 
shared.
Engaging with policymakers:  We also engage in dialogue with 
policymakers and other stakeholders. Johnson & Johnson is the 
sole healthcare sponsor of All Policies for a Healthy Europe, an 
intersectoral initiative undertaken by sectors outside of, and 
in collaboration with, the health sector, working to ensure that 
citizens’ health and wellbeing are a core priority for Europe. 
In this role, we are contributing to the strategic direction of 
the initiative, which focuses on the inextricable links between 
healthy societies, a healthy environment and healthy systems, 
and embraces the potential of data and digital technologies that 
improve wellbeing. We also joined the Call to Action for a New 
Deal for Europe, which brings together European leaders to 
collaborate on an overarching strategy for a sustainable Europe 
by 2030. Please see our approach to Public Policy Engagement .
Stakeholder engagement for this Report:  Various internal 
stakeholders across Johnson & Johnson's global teams provided 
their input into this Report. The final content has been reviewed 
by members of the Executive Committee.
See also our Position on Stakeholder Engagement.Sustainability Priorities
GRI 102-47
Priority Topics Assessment
Johnson & Johnson perspective (Impact on business)External stakeholder perspective
(Degree of stakeholder concern)
Increasing importanceIncreasing importanceProduct Quality
Consumer & Patient Safety
Ethics & Compliance
Sustainable ProductsAccessAdvancing Public 
Health
R&D Investment
Pricing
Strengthening 
Health Systems Information Security & Privacy
Talent Development 
Digital Health Innovation
Intellectual PropertySupply Integrity, 
Counterfeit &  
 Illicit TradeDiversity & Inclusion
Corporate 
GovernanceLocal Economic 
DevelopmentWater Management
Waste 
ManagementBioethicsHuman RightsClimate, Energy Use 
& Emissions
Disclosure & Transparency
Responsible Supplier Base
Safe & Healthy  
Workforce
Stakeholder expectations and the business environment in which we operate constantly evolve. Our Priority Topics 
Assessment (PTA) process helps us identify and prioritize the environmental, social and governance topics that 
matter most to our stakeholders and to our Company. The results inform and shape our sustainability priorities, 
public goal setting and reporting.  
We have been conducting PTAs every two to three years since 2008, with our most recent and most robust 
assessment conducted in 2019. A detailed description of the 2019 PTA process, methodology and definitions of topics 
be can be found here.Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Better Health for All2017 Health for Humanity Report 21
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 21
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
One thing that has always united us at Johnson & Johnson is our 
commitment to advancing better health for all. For more than 130 
years, this has been the focus of our Company, our business and 
our people. Health means many things: it’s not only the absence 
of disease, it’s eradicating the source of disease. It’s not only 
developing cures, it’s preventing the spread of sickness. It’s not only 
manufacturing medicines, it’s making them accessible to those who 
need them. And it’s not only about medicines, it’s about supporting 
entire healthcare systems and healthcare workers who deliver 
treatment and care for patients, and ensuring they have the right 
resources and skills to be effective. 
Health means many things, and for Johnson & Johnson, it’s all of 
them. By harnessing our breadth, scale and legacy of scientific 
innovation, we strive to change the trajectory of health for humanity. 
All humanity. Because better health for all means reaching the world’s 
most vulnerable and underserved populations, addressing diseases 
that affect specific population segments, supporting low-income 
communities—especially in times of emergency—and empowering 
every individual to realize their right to health. 
As the largest healthcare company in the world, Johnson & Johnson 
believes that advancing better health for all is our duty, our inspiration, 
our privilege and our business.  
In this section of the Report, we describe how we have continued to 
advance better health for all in 2019 by combating and preventing 
disease, improving access and affordability of healthcare, supporting 
communities and health workers, and tirelessly driving healthcare 
innovation.  Better Health 
for All
Johnson & Johnson works with partners to strengthen primary health systems in East Africa; a patient after his 
wellness check-up at a clinic in Mlolongo, Kenya.2017 Health for Humanity Report 22
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 22
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Key Achievements in 2019
• To improve access to mental healthcare in Rwanda, we 
completed the first-ever mental health clinical study and 
launched the first digital mental health training service in the 
country, with approximately 50,000 community healthcare 
workers trained by year's end. 
• We expanded treatment for drug-resistant TB patients by 
providing SIRTURO (bedaquiline) for over 105,797 patients in 
134 countries, and launched five new cross-sector TB R&D 
collaborations aimed at accelerating the early- to late-stage 
development of potential new TB medicines and treatment 
regimens.
• We continued advancing science to prevent and treat 
HIV/AIDS by launching the first Phase 3 efficacy study of 
Janssen's investigational HIV preventative vaccine with 
global partners. We improved youth HIV therapy and 
reduced infections in Africa by expanding the New Horizons 
Collaborative; and we reached over one million adolescent 
girls and young women through our partnership with 
DREAMS.              
• We supported the Ebola outbreak response in Rwanda 
and the Democratic Republic of Congo by donating up 
to 700,000 regimens of Janssen’s investigational vaccine 
and providing technology solutions to support the Ebola 
vaccination campaign.
• We launched our new Center for Health Worker Innovation to 
address the global health worker shortage.Areas of Opportunity
• Advocate for, and strengthen, multisectoral partnerships 
to accelerate R&D and delivery, focused on accelerating 
preventative viral vaccines and transformational treatments 
to tackle entrenched and emerging pandemic threats, 
including TB, HIV and Disease X.
• Work with partners to develop the pathway and supporting 
evidence to deliver a scalable, quality care model that 
leverages long-acting injectable medicines in resource-
limited settings.
• Continue to encourage and enable open, candid and 
evidence-based multi-stakeholder dialogue to engage 
the global community on empowering health workers, 
strengthening health systems, overcoming access challenges, 
and unlocking potential of outcomes-based financing.
Policies and Positions
Our policies and positions relating to Better Health for All are 
referenced throughout this section. In addition, please visit ESG 
Policies & Positions on our website.$11.4 billion  
invested in R&D
105,000 patients
provided access to HIV treatment
106,000 patients
provided access to MDR-TB treatment
$37 million
donated for disaster relief to support our 
communities
75,000 health workers  
educated in 54 countries2017 Health for Humanity Report 23
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 23
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Tackling the World’s Toughest Health Challenges
GRI J&J19-2
While the world has made significant progress in providing 
improved healthcare, major gaps remain. Through our Global 
Public Health (GPH) strategy, we are driven to foster better 
health for more people in more places around the world.
Johnson & Johnson GPH is the first fully dedicated organization 
within a healthcare company focused on combining innovative 
R&D, novel access programs, country-based operations and 
advocacy.  
We are committed to pioneering and sustainably delivering 
meaningful and transformational products that save lives, cure 
patients and prevent disease for those most in need. Upholding 
the rich heritage of Johnson & Johnson, we are taking on 
the toughest challenges, targeting transformational health 
outcomes for individuals and communities.
We focus our efforts on:
• Making HIV and TB history;
• Preventing and responding to pandemics;
• Reducing the burden of neglected tropical diseases;
• Addressing mental health disorders in resource-limited 
settings; and
• Mitigating the threat of antibiotic resistance.
We deliver impact by:
• Developing holistic solutions to ensure our innovations are 
available, accessible and affordable;
• Enabling and advancing breakthrough science; and
• Collaborating and convening with partners, and advocating 
for those in need. Half a billion dollars toward 
eliminating HIV and TB
In 2019, Johnson & Johnson publicly committed 
to invest more than $500 million over the next 
four years in discovery, development and delivery 
programs to advance the global effort to eliminate 
HIV and TB by 2030. HIV and TB are two of the 
world’s deadliest diseases, together claiming 
more than two million lives every year, primarily in 
resource-limited settings. 
“ While ending HIV and TB is an ambitious goal, I firmly 
believe that with today’s scientific advancements and 
growing collaboration among the global health community 
to leverage our combined resources and decades of 
experience in HIV and TB, it is an achievable one.”
Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chair of the Executive Committee and Chief 
Scientific Officer, Johnson & JohnsonSDG COMMITMENT PROGRESS 
 5-year Target: 175 million  
individuals will have benefited from  
Johnson & Johnson solutions that prevent,  
control and eliminate global diseases. 
 
2016-2019 Progress: 417 million beneficiaries 
(238% of overall goal achieved).        
 
      Exceeded   View scorecard
2017 Health for Humanity Report 24
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 24
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Making HIV History
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Through our Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies, we are 
committed to the ongoing R&D of innovative solutions to fight 
HIV across the continuum of care. By partnering with others and 
utilizing our scale, we aim to make HIV history. In 2019, we again 
made significant progress, both in terms of supporting access 
to HIV therapy, and also through groundbreaking research to 
develop the world’s first preventative HIV vaccine. 
Advancing science to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS
Imbokodo moves forward: In 2019, together with our partners, 
we were pleased to achieve full enrollment in our Phase 2b 
proof-of-concept efficacy study evaluating an investigational 
preventative vaccine against HIV-1 infection. This important step 
is part of our Imbokodo1 study to evaluate Janssen’s mosaic-
based preventative vaccine in 2,600 young women across five 
southern African countries where women and girls experience 
high rates of HIV transmission. The mosaic-based concept is 
designed as a global vaccine that should prevent infection by 
a wide range of viral strains responsible for the HIV epidemic. 
We expect initial results from Imbokodo by late 2021 that will 
confirm whether it can safely and effectively reduce the rate of 
new HIV infections. 
Mosaico gets started: Another significant advancement in 2019 
was our announcement together with our partners to launch a 
second efficacy study, Mosaico, to test Janssen’s mosaic-based 
preventative vaccine concept by accelerating a parallel Phase 3 
efficacy study that will evaluate the vaccine regimen in men who 
have sex with men (MSM), and in transgender people aged 18 – 
60. It aims to recruit 3,800 participants at more than 50 clinical 
trial sites across North America, South America and Europe—
making it Janssen’s largest study to date for the investigational 
preventative vaccine and one that focuses on communities that 
continue to face discrimination and challenges to access HIV 
treatment. Initial results from Mosaico are expected in 2024.  Reducing the burden of HIV treatment for patients: In 
early 2019, we announced positive results of the novel, 
investigational, long-acting two-drug injectable regimen in two 
major Phase 3 studies—the Antiretroviral Therapy as Long-
Acting Suppression (ATLAS) trial and the First Long-Acting 
Injectable Regimen (FLAIR) trial. The positive results from both 
studies showed that our treatment regimen (Janssen's rilpivirine 
and ViiV Healthcare's cabotegravir), injected monthly, had 
similar efficacy in maintaining viral suppression in adults living 
with HIV-1 when compared to a standard of care, daily, oral 
three-drug regimen. Following this outcome, we submitted a 
Marketing Authorization Application to the European Medicines 
Agency for rilpivirine long-acting as part of this monthly 
injection treatment regimen. In addition, later in 2019, we 
were able to confirm positive top-line results from the Phase 3 
ATLAS-2M study which indicated that dosing every two months 
was as effective in maintaining viral suppression as monthly 
dosing in adults living with HIV-1 infection. These developments 
signal unprecedented advances in treatment for people living 
with HIV, potentially reducing a regimen of daily medication to 
just six injections per year.         2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
104,000 adults and over 700 children received 
access to HIV/AIDS therapy with the branded 
and generic versions of PREZISTA (darunavir), 
INTELENCE (etravirine) and EDURANT (rilpivirine).
        In Progress               View scorecard
        2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
Regulatory submissions were made for rilpivirine 
long-acting (LA), the first all-injectable depot 
regimen for HIV:
• One submission to the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration by ViiV Healthcare for ViiV’s 
cabotegravir LA together with Janssen’s  
rilpivirine LA.
• Two parallel submissions to the European 
Medicines Agency—one for rilpivirine LA by 
Janssen and one for cabotegravir LA by ViiV 
Healthcare.
       Achieved                View scorecard        Highlight
Johnson & Johnson collaborates with numerous 
patient advocacy groups and supports more 
than 100 philanthropic programs in more than 50 
least-developed countries to address the needs of 
people living with HIV/AIDS.
2017 Health for Humanity Report 25
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 25
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Improving youth HIV therapy
In 2019, we expanded our New Horizons Collaborative, 
an innovative, integrated approach to improve access to 
antiretroviral (ARV) therapy for children and adolescents living 
with HIV in countries with the highest burden of pediatric HIV 
to include Cameroon, Nigeria, Rwanda and Zimbabwe, and 
to provide access to treatment until the age of 24 to enable 
a smooth transition into national adult HIV care. Worldwide, 
approximately 1.7 million children under age 15 have HIV.2 
Generally, access to ARVs and treatment outcomes for children 
and adolescents are worse than those for adults across Africa. 
As a multisector partnership, the New Horizons Collaborative 
aims to improve and scale up ARV therapy for children and 
adolescents through increased awareness and research, 
strengthening health systems, and improving access to HIV 
medicines. Through the program, Johnson & Johnson provides 
treatment free of charge. The New Horizons Collaborative was 
recognized by the Access to Medicine Foundation as a best 
practice in pediatric HIV care. 
Additionally, in sub-Saharan Africa, we advanced our 
partnership with DREAMS Thina Abantu Abasha, a youth-
led peer-to-peer initiative aimed at reducing the rate of HIV 
infections among adolescent girls and young women (AGYW). 
Through this program, in 2019, we reached 1.2 million AGYW, 
including all 19 – 24-year-olds who underwent HIV testing for 
the first time.
Additional initiatives to make HIV history 
We maintain our pledge to the MenStar Coalition, which brings 
together global partners to expand the diagnoses and treatment 
of HIV infections in men, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. This 
is a key step forward to breaking the cycle of HIV transmission 
and ultimately ending the HIV/AIDS epidemic as a public health 
threat. In 2019, we further committed resources to develop and 
deploy key insights about key emotional and health system 
barriers men face in accessing HIV treatment.      Highlights
When bedaquiline received accelerated 
regulatory approval from the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration in 2012, it was the first targeted TB 
drug with a novel mechanism of action developed 
in more than 40 years. Since then, we have 
partnered extensively in high-burden countries to 
provide access to and ensure appropriate use of 
our treatment.
As part of this effort, we donated 105,000 courses 
of treatment, free of cost, to 80 countries through 
a four-year donation program (2015 – 2019), 
operated in partnership with the U.S. Agency 
for International Development (USAID) and JSC 
Pharmstandard.
In total, between 2012 and 2019, we delivered 
188,000 courses of bedaquiline to patients in 138 
countries. As part of our longstanding global fight to eliminate HIV, and 
to support nurses at the front lines of care, Johnson & Johnson 
commissioned the 5B documentary film. 5B is an inspirational 
story of the unsung heroes of healthcare working on the 
world’s first ward dedicated to treating AIDS patients at San 
Francisco General Hospital at the height of the epidemic in 
the early 1980s. Told through the voices of nurses and staff, 
5B highlights the individuals who provided quality healthcare, 
compassion and the power of human touch during a time of 
great uncertainty. A portion of the film’s proceeds are used to 
fund HIV/AIDS projects in Africa.
We launched the first (BAND-AID®)RED campaign collaboration 
between BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages and (RED), a 
group of companies who partner and provide critical funding, 
awareness, and resources to help fight AIDS. Through this 
partnership, we hope to mobilize people everywhere to 
#bandtogether against HIV/AIDS. The purchase of a box of 
(BAND-AID®)RED Bandages helps provide a day’s worth of 
lifesaving medication to an HIV patient in sub-Saharan Africa.
As part of the Janssen-Pepal Leadership Challenge, 224 
employees from Belgium and the Netherlands are engaged 
in a program in Uganda to help devise community-based 
interventions to generate impact on adolescent sexual and 
reproductive health. Starting in 2019, our employees are 
visiting Uganda in four cohorts spread over two years, working 
with government adolescent health workers, peer leaders 
and specialists from Baylor College of Medicine Children’s 
Foundation – Uganda. The Janssen-Pepal Leadership Challenge 
combines development of employees and strengthening 
of healthcare systems in low-resource settings, positively 
impacting patients, healthcare professionals and healthcare 
systems.Eradicating Tuberculosis
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Johnson & Johnson has been a committed partner in the global 
fight against TB for more than two decades. We are currently 
working to help end TB through our comprehensive 10-year  
initiative announced in 2018, and our public promise to invest 
$500 million in the development and delivery of innovations to 
combat TB and also HIV. We work closely with governments 
and other partners in high-burden, low- and middle-income 
countries to build critical health systems capacity and 
capabilities by training health workers, improving diagnosis, 
raising awareness and reducing stigma around TB in local 
communities. We have also taken numerous steps to ensure 
appropriate use and stewardship of bedaquiline in line with 
the World Health Organization guidelines to prevent the 
development of resistance to the medicine. See section on 
Overcoming Antimicrobial Resistance.2017 Health for Humanity Report 26
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 26
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Expanding treatment for TB and DR-TB patients
Bedaquiline is a core component of WHO-recommended 
treatment: In 2019, the World Health Organization (WHO) 
published a Rapid Communication indicating that all-oral 
regimens containing Johnson & Johnson’s bedaquiline are the 
preferred treatment options for all patients with multidrug-
resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and rifampicin-resistant TB 
(RR-TB). This decision expands the use of bedaquiline in shorter 
treatment regimens to replace injectable agents. WHO advised 
national TB programs to phase out the use of injectable-
containing short-course regimens, which have been known to 
cause toxic side effects for patients. The Rapid Communication 
was released in advance of updated consolidated drug-resistant 
tuberculosis (DR-TB) treatment guidelines, expected in 2020, 
to help national TB programs to begin planning for a rapid 
transition to what WHO describes as “more effective, less toxic 
and easier to implement” regimens.
Expanding treatment to young people: In 2019, we secured 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for 
bedaquiline tablets as part of combination therapy for eligible 
MDR-TB patients aged 12 years and over in the United States. 
This FDA approval marks the first regulatory milestone as part of  
Johnson & Johnson’s global pediatric R&D program for 
bedaquiline. Additionally, our new pediatric formulation of 
bedaquiline for children aged 5 to < 12 years of age is under 
review at the FDA and European Medicines Agency. For those 
children under 12 years of age, a 20 mg tablet was developed, 
which can be dispersed in water to make it easier for children 
to swallow. These developments represent a significant 
advance for children suffering from hard-to-treat forms of TB. 
Furthermore, we are striving to achieve even more with our 
pediatric program: a clinical study is ongoing to evaluate the 
pediatric formulation of our medicine among children aged 2 
to 4, and once preliminary data is available, the youngest age 
cohort (0 – 2 years of age) will begin enrollment.Activities to accelerate an end to TB in India
In 2019, we announced the expansion of our TB program in 
India through a series of new collaborations with multilateral 
and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), as well as the 
Government of India, to support India’s efforts to end TB by 
2025, as outlined in its National Strategic Plan for TB Elimination. 
For the past four years, Johnson & Johnson has worked with the 
Government of India to scale up access to bedaquiline, providing 
22,000 courses free of charge, as part of a donation program 
administered by USAID. Our expanded TB program in India 
includes: 
• Using "edutainment" and visual campaigns to reach 
patients and break stigma: With our support, the MTV 
Staying Alive Foundation launched a new edutainment 
radio campaign, MTV Nishedh (meaning "taboo" in Hindi), 
on a popular radio station across six cities in India to raise awareness about critical health issues, including TB, and 
help young people make more informed choices about their 
health. We also partnered to launch a Metro Awareness 
project in Hyderabad to increase awareness of TB through 
visual campaigns in 45 metro trains.
• Partnering to enhance diagnostic capacity: We are 
supporting a new effort through which the Foundation for 
Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND) will provide technical 
assistance to establish new TB culture and drug-susceptibility 
testing facilities in at least seven sites across India with a 
focus on three high-burden states.
• Training health workers to improve standards of care: We 
launched a unique collaboration with the International Union 
Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease to help build capacity 
of public-sector healthcare providers for the effective 
management of TB and DR-TB. We will support capacity 
building workshops for clinicians and healthcare workers in 
seven high-burden states. Also, we invested in further efforts 
to improve care for DR-TB patients with plans to train an 
additional 5,000 healthcare professionals by the end of 2020. 
• Strengthening private-public treatment pathways: We are 
supporting a pilot initiative with TB Alert India to expand 
referrals of patients from the private to the public health 
system. The model involves a dedicated call center and an 
online platform, CONNECT FOR LIFE, developed by  
Johnson & Johnson to help track and support patients 
throughout their treatment.“ The decision from WHO reiterates the importance 
and value of bedaquiline as a vital component of 
modernized DR-TB treatment regimens.”
Martin Fitchet, M.D., Global Head, Global Public Health, 
Johnson & JohnsonNew report shows cost-
benefit of treating DR-TB
A report published in 2019 by The Economist 
Intelligence Unit (EIU), with support from  
Johnson & Johnson, emphasized the urgent need 
for global action to address the growing threat of 
DR-TB.
While the cost of inaction is high, the EIU report 
highlights that addressing DR-TB provides good 
value for the investment. The benefit-to-cost ratio 
for investing in diagnosis and treatment of DR-TB 
specifically has been estimated at up to US$23 for 
every dollar invested. 
Read the EIU report: “It’s Time to End Drug-
Resistant Tuberculosis: The Case for Action.” 
         2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
182,000 
patients received access to MDR-TB therapy with 
SIRTURO (bedaquiline) since 2016. Of the 37,000 
patients provided access in 2016 and 2017, an 
estimated 32,000 have been potentially cured, 
based on the 87.8% cure rate.
       On track               View scorecard2017 Health for Humanity Report 27
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 27
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Collaborating to eradicate TB
New research consortium: In 2019, we launched an 
international research consortium to discover and develop 
new TB antibiotics in collaboration with eight European 
academic and biotechnology partners. Co-funded with Europe’s 
Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), this initiative, called 
RESPIRI-TB, is one of several partnerships we are advancing 
at Johnson & Johnson to accelerate TB R&D. The RESPIRI-TB 
initiative will help enable the development of a new, more 
efficient combination drug regimen to cure MDR-TB, while 
shortening treatment duration and minimizing the likelihood 
of resistance. The new consortium includes nine research 
teams spanning five European countries, and the RESPIRI-TB 
program also supports a pillar of Europe’s IMI AMR Accelerator 
Programme.Preventing & Responding to  
Pandemic Threats
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
From epidemics like COVID-19, Ebola, HIV and TB to the 
challenges of adequate-quality primary, community-based 
healthcare, we are anticipating and responding to the toughest 
and most pressing challenges that threaten hard-won  
health gains.
Johnson & Johnson believes that global health security 
requires coordinated efforts from governments, civil society 
and healthcare companies. Through Janssen, we are actively 
engaged in global pandemic preparedness across multiple 
disease areas, developing new vaccines and treatments to 
combat a wide range of infectious diseases that are already 
pandemics, such as HIV and TB, or that have pandemic 
potential, such as Ebola, Zika and influenza, including 
immediate action to address new threats as they appear, such 
as COVID-19. See here for how we are seeking to outsmart 
pandemics. 
 
For more information on how the intersection of human health 
and climate health impact are related to pandemics, read our 
Position on Human Health and the Environment. You can also 
learn more about our efforts to reduce environmental impacts 
in the Environmental Health section.
Collaboration to support pandemic preparedness 
We maintain a wide range of collaborations to address global 
health security and pandemic preparedness. Specifically, 
we collaborate with the Biomedical Advanced Research and 
Development Authority (BARDA), part of the U.S. Department 
of Health and Human Services, to advance research and the 
development of solutions for a range of diseases with pandemic 
potential, including influenza, Ebola, COVID-19 and others.
Ed Kuffner, M.D., Chief Medical Officer, Johnson & Johnson Consumer 
Health, volunteering in the emergency department at New York City’s 
Coney Island Hospital to support COVID-19 emergency response.Our response to the 
coronavirus disease
Immediately following the early spread of 
COVID-19 in late 2019, we began mobilizing 
resources to launch a multi-pronged response 
including vaccine investigation and development,  
therapeutic compound screening, global 
collaborations with governments and the scientific 
community, donation of equipment and needed 
resources, investments to support the frontline 
health workforce, and managing the COVID-19 
impact on our operations and employees. See 
here for the most recent updates on our efforts to 
address the COVID-19 pandemic.      Highlight
In 2019, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
approved pretomanid, a novel medicine developed 
by the TB Alliance, as part of a bedaquiline-
containing “BPaL” regimen for the treatment 
of adults with aggressive forms of DR-TB. This 
approval marks an important milestone in the 
fight against DR-TB by providing a simpler, shorter 
treatment option for patients who have historically 
faced lengthy treatment regimens. The inclusion of 
bedaquiline in the BPaL regimen underscores the 
critical role of our medicine in efforts to modernize 
TB therapy. Bedaquiline and pretomanid are two of 
only three new TB therapies to be introduced in the 
past half-century.2017 Health for Humanity Report 28
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 28
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Containing Ebola   
The Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson 
have been a leader for many years in efforts to help prevent 
Ebola outbreaks. In 2019, the first doses of our investigational   
Ebola vaccine regimen arrived in the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo (DRC) and the Republic of Rwanda. To help protect 
people at risk of Ebola in DRC, we have committed to donate up 
to 500,000 investigational vaccine regimens in support of a new 
clinical study. 
In Rwanda, where citizens are potentially at risk from the 
Ebola outbreak in neighboring DRC, we are providing up to 
200,000 investigational Ebola vaccine regimens (which has 
been conditionally approved in Rwanda) to support a new 
immunization program led by the Government of Rwanda. We  
also provided technology solutions such as biometric 
identification and mobile messaging to support the Ebola 
vaccination campaign.
Also, in 2019, the European Medicines Agency Committee for 
Medicinal Products for Human Use granted an Accelerated 
Assessment for our investigational Ebola vaccine regimen for 
the prevention of Ebola Virus Disease caused by Zaire ebolavirus 
species. This is an important step in helping to secure global 
preparedness for Ebola, especially as the world’s largest Ebola 
outbreaks have taken place in the last six years alone and 
continue to spread, for example, as in the 2018 outbreak in DRC.Containing Malaria, Chagas, Influenza, Zika, 
Hepatitis B and ExPEC    
Malaria: In 2019, we advanced the development of a long-
acting injectable for malaria prevention with Medicines for 
Malaria Ventures. Newly developed injectable formulations of 
a marketed antimalarial agent provided coverage of required 
target concentrations for three months with a single injection 
in large and small animal test models. To reach target human 
populations for this treatment we would support the Seasonal 
Malaria Control prevention programs in Africa and treat 
migrants traveling into those regions; and we would participate 
in malaria elimination programs.
Chagas: Chagas disease affects between eight and 10 million 
people worldwide, with the majority of cases found in Latin 
America. It is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi and can  
lead to serious cardiovascular disorders including congestive 
heart failure. The current medications used to treat this have 
a number of undesirable side effects, which limit their use 
and also do not address late-stage Chagas disease. We are 
currently engaged in a discovery research program to identify 
compounds that have the potential to treat both the acute and 
chronic stages of this disease. We entered into a collaboration 
agreement in 2019 with the Drugs for Neglected Disease 
initiative to optimize the hits we have obtained from screening 
a subset of our chemical library. Through these efforts we hope 
to identify a lead compound that will allow us to move into 
developing an effective treatment for this disease. 
Influenza: Seasonal influenza is an acute respiratory infection 
caused by influenza viruses, which circulate in all parts of the 
world. Illnesses range from mild to severe and even death. 
Hospitalization and death occur mainly among high-risk groups. 
Worldwide, these annual epidemics are estimated to result in 
about three to five million cases of severe illness, and about 
290,000 to 650,000 respiratory deaths.3 In 2019, with support  
from BARDA, we progressed two Phase 3 studies of a new 
compound with a mechanism of action different from that of 
existing antiviral drugs.Zika virus: Zika, a mosquito-transmitted flavivirus, can cause 
severe congenital disease in children born to mothers infected 
during pregnancy. Although Zika virus incidence has waned 
in recent years, a protective vaccine is still urgently needed 
to prevent congenital Zika syndrome in at-risk areas. We 
continue to invest and assess the potential of our candidate Zika 
preventative vaccine, which showed acceptable safety and clear 
immunogenicity in a 2019 Phase 1 trial. As there is no specific 
approved medicine or vaccine for Zika virus, we stand ready to 
respond rapidly and efficiently to potential future outbreaks of 
Zika virus.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV): Hepatitis B causes more than 887,000 
deaths each year and is a major threat to global public health. 
Some 257 million people worldwide are chronically infected 
with HBV, and the disease causes around 40% of all primary 
liver cancers—the second-most deadly cancer.4 Our current 
investigational HBV treatment portfolio covers many unique 
mechanisms of action, including novel antivirals that can inhibit 
the virus from reproducing, as well as vaccines designed to 
fortify the immune system to control the virus long-term. We are 
currently progressing our first-ever triple combination Phase 2b 
clinical trial for HBV. 
Extraintestinal Pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC): 
Bacteremia and sepsis caused by ExPEC bacteria are among 
the top 10 causes of death in older adults, and the number 
of cases is rising as the population ages.5 Because of rising 
antimicrobial resistance, antibiotics are becoming less effective 
in fighting infections caused by ExPEC, such as bacteremia, 
when bacteria enter the blood, or sepsis, when the body reacts 
to infection extremely and dangerously. In 2019, the Center 
for Biologics Evaluation and Research designated fast-track 
status to Janssen’s ExPEC10V investigational vaccine program. 
The Innovative Medicines Initiative is co-funding the Phase 3 
feasibility study of our ExPEC10V vaccine, which we hope will 
help contain bacteremia on a broad scale.
Shipping our Ebola vaccine candidates to Rwanda.2017 Health for Humanity Report 29
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 29
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Addressing health security needs in Uganda: In 2019,  
Johnson & Johnson led the Global Health Security Agenda 
Private Sector Roundtable (PSRT) in negotiating and signing a 
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Uganda Ministry 
of Health to strengthen skills within the Ministry. This new 
partnership will support Uganda in addressing specific health 
security needs and will include workforce training in public 
health management and leadership, diagnostics, data literacy 
and many other areas.
“ The signing of the MoU is a huge step for private-
sector engagement in global health security, but it is 
only a first step for this partnership, which we hope will 
serve as a model for future public-private partnerships 
to better prevent, detect, and respond to health 
threats.”
Alan Tennenberg, M.D., PSRT Chair, Chief Medical Officer, 
Global Public Health, Johnson & JohnsonCollaborating and 
innovating for health 
security
In 2019, we collaborated with Biomedical Advanced 
Research and Development Authority (BARDA) 
to develop and maintain a specialized innovation 
unit in JLABS @ Washington, DC dedicated to the 
advancement of medical countermeasures aimed 
at securing our nation from chemical, biological, 
radiological and nuclear threats, as well as  
from pandemic influenza and emerging  
infectious diseases. Under the arrangement, 
Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JLABS will 
host educational and other outreach programs 
on innovation and development in these mutual 
areas of interest in the hopes of attracting a 
pipeline of cutting-edge companies. The idea is 
that with mentorship by JLABS and support from 
BARDA, these companies might be better poised 
to deliver faster solutions for some of the biggest 
problems facing our nation and the world. See our 
Innovating for Better Health section.Combating Neglected Tropical 
Diseases
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Our aspiration of better health for all guides us to advance 
inclusive access to healthcare. This includes helping alleviate 
the burden of diseases that impact our most underserved 
populations. We have a track record of investing R&D resources 
in and supporting access to treatment to effectively combat 
soil-transmitted helminthiasis (STH), known as intestinal worms, 
dengue, river blindness and other diseases.
Janssen shares 80,000 chemical compounds from its Jump-
stARter molecular library with the global research community 
to help collaborators accelerate treatment and prevention of 
NTDs, along with TB, malaria, and other diseases common in the 
developing world.
Progress in combating STH: In 2019, we committed to the 
World Health Organization (WHO) to extending our annual 
200 million dose donation of our intestinal worms treatment 
VERMOX CHEWABLE (mebendazole chewable 500mg tablets)  
through 2025. The treatment will target both pre-school and 
school-aged children in developing countries. The WHO 
coordinates endemic country requests for drug orders, which  
Johnson & Johnson then fulfills. With this contribution, the  
progress against combating STH infections will continue, and 
children in the world’s poorest countries will be able to achieve 
their full potential and thrive. The new VERMOX CHEWABLE 
formulation was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration in 2016 and received WHO Prequalification in 
April 2019. By 2021, the donation will be fully transitioned from 
the solid tablet to the new chewable formulation, and allows one 
tablet for all ages down to one-year-olds. 2017 Health for Humanity Report 30
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 30
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Beyond drug donations, Johnson & Johnson is working with 
partners to identify sustainable solutions to combat intestinal 
worms longer term. These include improving diagnostics for 
STH and providing funding to support the development of 
national monitoring and evaluation frameworks to allow for 
better data collection, more informed decision-making, and 
ultimately, targeted therapeutic interventions that have the 
potential to control intestinal worms in endemic countries.
Progress in combating dengue: The aim of our dengue 
program is to develop a potent, first-in-class antiviral for 
the prevention of dengue, both for travelers and vulnerable 
populations living in dengue-endemic areas. In 2019, we 
completed a Phase I (First-in-Human) trial for a new treatment 
in partnership with the Wellcome Trust, a global charitable 
foundation, and the University of Leuven in Belgium. The trial 
yielded positive outcomes. We submitted a prepackage of 
our Investigational New Drug (IND) application for our new 
treatment and expect to deliver our final IND application in 
2020. Our approach includes the development of a model to 
predict dengue outbreak areas four weeks ahead of time in 
support of the clinical development program.Transforming Mental Healthcare
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Worldwide, anxiety affects one billion people. Nearly a third of 
that figure suffer from depression, 60 million suffer from bipolar 
affective disorder, and a further 21 million have schizophrenia 
or other severe psychoses. Additionally, dementia—already a 
widespread condition—is expected to impact more than 150 
million people 30 years from now.6 Health systems have not 
yet adequately responded to the burden of mental disorders, 
and the gap between the need for treatment and its provision 
is wide all over the world. In low- and middle-income countries, 
between 76% and 85% of people with mental disorders receive 
no treatment for their disorder.7
With more than 60 years of supporting those affected by mental 
illness, Johnson & Johnson is committed to expanding access to 
transformational mental health innovations to positively impact 
people’s lives.
Mental health and the environment: In 2019, we expanded the 
scope of our environmental health strategy and partnerships 
to consider support for better health, especially for better 
mental health, which comes from spending time in nature and 
other natural exposures. We initiated a new partnership with 
the Institute for European Environmental Policy to examine 
how policy can support better mental health through ensuring 
access to nature. We also initiated a partnership with the Gund 
Institute , a cross-functional environmental research organization 
based at the University of Vermont, to support research 
examining new ways to assess the connections between mental 
health and natural exposures.
Johnson & Johnson collaborated on a report outlining strategies 
to improve workplace mental health, published by the American 
Heart Association CEO Roundtable in 2019. 
For our 2019 neuroscience pharmaceutical innovation, see the 
R&D: Pharmaceutical section.
Peruvian children washing hands before taking a Johnson & Johnson 
VERMOX CHEWABLE tablet to treat intestinal worms as part of a national 
mass drug administration campaign.
      Highlights
Johnson & Johnson has donated more than 1.6 
billion doses of VERMOX since 2006.
In late 2019, the VERMOX CHEWABLE was 
introduced into 11 different countries. Peru was 
the first country globally to receive VERMOX 
CHEWABLE as part of mass drug administration 
campaigns.         2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
0.8 billion  
doses of VERMOX (mebendazole) were donated in 
42 countries, with 415 million children having been 
targeted for treatment.
       On track               View scorecard2017 Health for Humanity Report 31
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 31
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Supporting mental healthcare in Rwanda   
The partnership we established in 2018 with the Rwanda 
Ministry of Health to strengthen and expand access to quality 
mental healthcare in the country made strong progress  
in 2019:
• RISPERDAL (risperidone), our oral medicine for the treatment 
of schizophrenia, received marketing approval by the 
Rwanda Food and Drug Administration. Facilitating increased 
access to innovative antipsychotics like risperidone is an 
important early step on the road to better treatment, care 
and outcomes for patients in countries without strong mental 
healthcare infrastructure and services to treat schizophrenia. 
• We completed the first-ever mental health clinical study 
that will inform feasibility and capacity-building for a 
future mental health open-label clinical study of the health, 
economic and social impact of long-acting injectable 
antipsychotics for the treatment of people with schizophrenia 
to be completed by 2024. Thirty-one patients in this study 
were successfully transitioned to a two-year post-trial access 
program for paliperidone palmitate three-month formulation.
• We co-developed and launched a remote training system for 
over 48,204 registered community health workers across all 
30 districts of Rwanda. The eight training modules are based 
on a Ministry of Health curriculum on mental healthcare 
and include content on recognizing early signs of mental 
disorders, best practices for mental health first aid, and 
guidance on when to refer patients for additional care.
• Along with a grant from the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, 
Johnson & Johnson helped enable Partners In Health (PIH) to 
bring critically needed services to two districts in Rwanda's 
Eastern Province—Kirehe and Kayonza—and create  a new 
generation of mental healthcare professionals. The focus 
of the program is having psychiatric nurses from district 
hospitals train nurses in local health centers to diagnose and 
treat mental health. In this first year of the three-year grants, 
PIH was able to train 115 healthcare providers in mental 
healthcare and provide 2,833 patients with access to mental 
healthcare.• We co-sponsored the first annual Mental Health Summit 
in Kenya where the keynote speaker at the summit, Dr. 
Yvonne Kayiteshonga, Mental Health Division Manager at 
the Rwanda Biomedical Centre at the Ministry of Health, 
discussed the progress made in Rwanda and our mental 
health partnership. Our purpose was to continue to raise 
awareness and prioritization of mental health within the East 
Africa region healthcare agenda utilizing the influence of 
Rwanda and Kenya together to shape this narrative. 
• At a meeting in Kigali to launch the 2019 – 2024 Health 
Sector Strategic Plan, the Honorable Dr. Diane Gashumba, 
former Minister of Health of Rwanda, recognized 
Johnson & Johnson for our contributions to the Rwandan 
health sector, on behalf of the Ministry of Health.
 Mental health initiatives in China    
More than 54 million people in China suffer from depression.8 
Proper diagnosis and treatment for depression are rare, 
especially in underserved regions, with less than two out of 
10 patients seeking medical help or taking medications. In 
2019, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with 
Holmusk, a digital health and data analytics company, to explore 
the development of a digital mental health strategy in China. 
In order to develop integrated solutions for people living with 
mental health disorders, the MoU brings together Janssen’s 
60-plus years of experience in mental health along with its 
China neuroscience portfolio and Holmusk’s therapeutics design 
expertise.
“ In Janssen, we have a partner that is dedicated 
to transforming how mental health is managed in 
China. We have confidence that we can establish 
data as a core utility to the treatment of mental health 
and provide the capacity for leapfrog-change in the 
provision of care and research into new treatments.”
Nawal Roy, Founder and CEO, Holmusk        Snapshot
April 2019 marked the 25th anniversary of the 
Rwandan Genocide. During 100 days in 1994, 
the African country of Rwanda saw the horrific 
killing of up to one million people. Beyond the 
immeasurable loss of human life, the genocide 
also created an increased burden of mental health 
disorders across the country. Victims, witnesses, 
perpetrators and returning refugees alike have 
been found to suffer from heightened rates 
of post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, 
and anxiety as they grapple with the enduring 
emotional wounds from that time. In the months 
leading up to the 25th anniversary Genocide 
Commemoration, Johnson & Johnson supported 
the Rwanda Ministry of Health to train community 
health workers on common signs of mental illness 
and how to link people in need to care.2017 Health for Humanity Report 32
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 32
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Overcoming Antimicrobial Resistance
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
The spread of drug-resistant pathogens, known as  
antimicrobial resistance (AMR), is a growing public health 
concern. Overuse of antibiotics, or not using them as 
prescribed, contributes to growth of resistant bacteria, which 
renders antibiotics less effective or ineffective. It is estimated 
that by 2050, AMR infections could cause 10 million deaths 
annually.9 Johnson & Johnson has a longstanding commitment 
to develop and responsibly deploy innovative technologies  
and treatments to combat the growing threat of AMR on 
multiple fronts.
In 2019, we joined the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention’s AMR Challenge to combat antimicrobial resistance 
by submitting an actionable commitment for change. The AMR 
Challenge is a way for governments, private companies, and 
non-governmental organizations worldwide to make formal 
commitments that further the progress against antimicrobial 
resistance. Read our commitment on the AMR Challenge page.Recognized for our 
leadership  in AMR
Johnson & Johnson is proud to be recognized for 
the second time as a leader among our peers in 
the fight against AMR in the 2020 Antimicrobial 
Resistance Benchmark. The independent report 
from the Access to Medicine Foundation evaluates 
30 pharmaceutical companies on their efforts to 
bring AMR under control. The Access to Medicine 
Foundation is an independent, nonprofit research 
organization based in the Netherlands.
Our performance was recognized in four core 
categories: Research & Development (R&D), 
Responsible Manufacturing, Appropriate Access, 
and Stewardship. Johnson & Johnson is making 
the second-largest R&D investment in relevant 
disease areas as identified by the Benchmark and 
is stewarding one of the largest antimicrobial 
pipelines to ensure antimicrobials remain a 
backbone of modern medicine. 
These efforts are clearly exemplified in our work 
to tackle drug-resistant TB (DR-TB). DR-TB is 
responsible for one-third of all AMR-related deaths 
and is the world’s only airborne drug-resistant 
infection. Currently, a third of all people with DR-
TB—approximately 300,000 individuals—are not 
aware they are infected, posing a major threat to 
public health and global health security. See our 
section on Eradicating Tuberculosis.
Scientist at Janssen Sciences Ireland in Cork, Ireland.2017 Health for Humanity Report 33
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 33
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Enhancing Access to Healthcare
GRI J&J19-1, J&J19-8      SASB HC-BP-240a.1
As the world’s largest healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson 
is committed to improving access to our innovative medicines, 
vaccines, devices and diagnostics in all countries. Many factors 
impede access to basic health services and may risk optimum 
health outcomes for underserved populations. In addition to 
the affordability of medicines, weak health infrastructure, lack 
of skilled health workforce, inadequate financing options to 
cover medical needs, and insufficient regulatory capacity to run 
effective healthcare delivery systems all have varying impacts 
in different countries. We tailor our programs and activities to 
provide support where and how it is needed most. 
Improving Access & Affordability
SASB HC-BP-240a.2
We pursue a wide variety of approaches appropriate to the 
specific reimbursement systems and legal guidelines of different 
countries. Using tools such as equity-based tiered pricing and 
partnerships with public health organizations, we strive to help 
achieve broad and timely access to our medicines in a way that 
is affordable locally. Three ongoing access initiatives reflected 
in our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard for 
those in resource-constrained settings include:
• Expanding access to HIV/AIDS treatment, developing the first 
HIV vaccine, and improving HIV diagnostics;
• Ensuring affordable and sustainable access to multidrug-
resistant tuberculosis treatments; and
• Promoting treatments to address neglected tropical diseases.
Johnson & Johnson is an original signatory of the Business for 
Social Responsibility (BSR) Guiding Principles on Access to 
Healthcare that underscore the importance of reducing the 
global burden of disease through collaboration, R&D, expanding 
availability of healthcare services, developing health systems 
resources, and respecting human rights.In the last decade, Johnson & Johnson has ranked among the 
top three companies worldwide working to expand access to 
medicines, according to the Access to Medicine Index. The 
Index, which is compiled by independent experts at the Access 
to Medicine Foundation, evaluates 20 of the world’s largest 
research-based pharmaceutical companies on their performance 
in making medicines, vaccines and diagnostics more accessible 
to people in need in low- and middle-income countries. The most 
recent Index, covering 2018, highlights Johnson & Johnson’s 
unique global public health business approach, commitment 
to R&D for diseases of the developing world, and leadership 
in health system strengthening, as well as efforts to overcome 
antimicrobial resistance through our work to eradicate 
tuberculosis.Challenging entrepreneurs 
to enhance access to 
healthcare in Africa
In 2019, our second Africa Innovation Challenge, 
with its goal of stimulating entrepreneurship 
and innovation in Africa, attracted almost 900 
applicants from 39 countries who submitted 
inspiring proposals to improve health and 
wellbeing in their communities and beyond. 
The six winners, selected by Johnson & Johnson 
healthcare leaders from our three business 
segments and corporate functions, each received 
a grant of $50,000 and mentoring support to 
address unmet needs across critical healthcare 
areas. 
The winning proposals included a digital platform 
that enables delivery of lifesaving blood to 
hospitals in less than 45 minutes (LifeBank, 
Nigeria); a mobile phone app for remote hearing 
tests for children in rural Africa (Dreet, Botswana); 
an organic, affordable soap that repels mosquitoes 
to help prevent the spread of malaria (Uganics, 
Uganda), and a solar-powered, foldable crib 
that helps jaundiced babies receive important 
phototherapy to help them regain health (Crib 
A’Glow, Nigeria).         Highlight
6 Johnson & Johnson products are included in the 
WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products:
• Darunavir (ethanolate), Tablet, Film-coated 75mg 
• Darunavir (ethanolate), Tablet, Film-coated 150mg
• Darunavir (ethanolate), Tablet, Film-coated 600mg
• Etravirine, Tablet, Film-coated 100mg
• Etravirine, Tablet 25mg 
• Mebendazole, Tablets, Chewable 500mg2017 Health for Humanity Report 34
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 34
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
• Enhancing access in China: Johnson & Johnson Medical 
Devices in Shanghai partnered with TINAVI, the market 
leader in orthopaedic robotics in China. This strategic 
collaboration will allow DePuy Synthes, our orthopaedics 
business, to bring TINAVI’s robotic solutions for spine and 
trauma surgery to the China orthopaedics implant market. To 
date, TINAVI is the only arm-based robotic technology with 
multiple indications approved for use in spine and trauma in 
China.
• Mobile education facility for healthcare professionals 
(HCPs): For many HCPs who cannot travel for training, the 
Johnson & Johnson Institute Mobile Lab, an 18-wheeler 
truck equipped with the latest in surgical simulation training, 
travels to them. The Mobile Lab teaches orthopaedic trauma, 
joint reconstruction, spine, sports and craniomaxillofacial 
procedures in a setting that simulates the Operating Room, 
offering participants hands-on experience with relevant 
instrumentation and techniques. Over the course of 2019, 
the Mobile Lab visited 30 cities across the United States and 
trained 466 HCPs who otherwise might not have had access 
to a similar educational opportunity.Access and affordability for patients in the U.S.: In the United 
States, we provide resources to patients, caregivers and 
healthcare providers through the Janssen CarePath program, 
which helps patients gain and maintain access to the Janssen 
medicines they are prescribed. 
Janssen CarePath programs help patients navigate complex 
payer processes, connect with savings programs, and stay on 
their prescribed medications. These strategies have the potential 
to lead to better quality of care and outcomes. Programs under 
the Janssen CarePath brand also aid adherence to prescribed 
therapies and support patients, providers, and caregivers in 
accessing and affording prescribed Janssen medications. 
Our initiatives in 2019 include:
• Mobile enrollment on Janssen CarePath: We introduced 
a new capability on Janssen CarePath, enabling U.S. 
SYMTUZA (darunavir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide) patients to initiate enrollment in the Janssen 
CarePath Savings Program for Infectious Diseases by texting 
from their phone. Eligible patients can send a text to enroll in 
the program on their smartphone and receive an electronic 
savings program card that can be saved to a digital wallet on 
their mobile device.
• Enhancing access in Kenya: In partnership with Kenya’s 
National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), we are enhancing 
access to ZYTIGA (abiraterone acetate), a drug used to treat 
an advanced form of prostate cancer. The new partnership 
will allow more patients to be diagnosed and treated earlier 
through a patient assistance program for NHIF-member 
patients.Transparent performance 
on access and pricing
Headlines from the 2019 Janssen U.S.  
Transparency Report:
• In 2019, the average net price of our medicines 
declined (1.2)%.
• This decline reflects the $24.5 billion in 
discounts, rebates, and fees we provided to 
intermediaries in the system—more than half 
the list price of our medicines.
• We maintained our significant investment in 
discovering and developing new medicines for 
patients—spending 91% more on global R&D 
than on global marketing and sales. In the last 
five years, we’ve spent $39.4 billion on R&D, 
resulting in seven new medicines and 38 new 
indications.
• We helped 1.3 million patients with access, 
affordability and treatment support through 
Janssen CarePath.
• We worked with stakeholders to advance 
practical policy solutions to reduce costs for 
patients, while supporting continued progress 
in the fight against disease.
For more information, see the 2019 Janssen U.S. 
Transparency Report.“ This is an important milestone in the field of 
digital surgery. We will work to create an open 
innovation ecosystem, promote digital and 
technological medical innovation, provide insights 
for the Chinese medical experience, and help 
upgrade the health industry, so that more people 
can access more convenient and better medical 
services to achieve the great vision of 'Healthy 
China 2030'.”
Will Song, Chairman, Johnson & Johnson China, and  
President, Johnson & Johnson Medical China (Shanghai) Ltd.2017 Health for Humanity Report 35
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 35
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Universal Health Coverage
We believe that every individual should have access to quality, 
affordable and reliable essential healthcare services; no one 
should have to forgo treatment or be forced into poverty 
because of the cost of care. We are advocates for global 
Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and are committed to 
helping turn the promise of UHC into reality. We believe that 
tailored strategies that align local needs, resources and market 
conditions must be part of the solution. For more information, 
see our Position on Universal Health Coverage.
Financing and collaboration for UHC
Sustainable financing is a critical element of achieving UHC, 
requiring alignment of both government social health insurance 
and private health insurance. To support this goal, we developed 
a methodology for engaging with private health insurance 
(PHI) companies to help shape policy to promote access to 
innovative medicines and surgeries that may not be covered by 
government health insurance policies. This process was most 
successful in 2019 in China, Egypt, Indonesia and Malaysia. Each 
country advanced work with PHI companies to establish new 
insurance policies. In Brazil, a new methodology was tested 
to assess the impact of potential changes in regulation in PHI 
on patient access and business. In Egypt, we collaborated on 
a study to evaluate possible collaboration between PHI and 
pharmaceutical companies. The conclusions of this study will 
help inform positive future approaches in Egypt.SDG COMMITMENT PROGRESS
5-year Target: 50 million people will 
have had access to safe, essential, and 
timely surgical care.    
 
2016-2019 Progress: 56.2 million beneficiaries 
(112% of overall goal achieved). 
 
      Exceeded   View scorecard
Intellectual Property
GRI J&J19-7
We believe that flexible intellectual property (IP) management is 
a key element to effective and sustainable access to medicines, 
especially in low-income and low- to middle-income countries. 
IP systems encourage innovation and allow us to invest in new 
technologies, fund R&D, and bring transformational medicines 
to the market. We work with international funders, local 
governments and non-governmental organizations to develop 
approaches that benefit patients in need while continuing 
to uphold the value of IP in all parts of the world. For more 
information, see our Position on Intellectual Property.  
 
Advancing public policy on patents to benefit patients: In 
2019, the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property of the U.S. 
Senate Judiciary Committee heard testimony from healthcare 
experts on proposed reforms to the subject matter eligibility 
requirements defined in Section 101 of the Patent Act. As current 
case law relating to patent eligible subject matter is both 
confusing and complex, the reform efforts seek to restore clarity 
and predictability to these requirements. Johnson & Johnson, 
the world’s largest healthcare company and a transformational 
medical innovator, believes that clarity and predictability of 
the patent system are essential for ongoing drug development. 
Robert DeBerardine, Chief Intellectual Property Counsel, 
Johnson & Johnson, provided testimony to the Subcommittee 
at their hearings in June. Mr. DeBerardine testified: “Without 
the investment of larger pharmaceutical and biotechnology 
companies, basic research could not be transformed into safe 
and effective treatments that benefit patients. We strongly 
support the approach taken in the proposal to fix our current 
patent eligibility problem.”        2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
More than 800 engagements conducted with 
government officials and other partners in Brazil, 
China, Malaysia, Mexico, Russia and Rwanda in 
2019. 
Existing pilot projects to expand healthcare 
access and coverage in Brazil, China, Colombia, 
Indonesia, Mexico, Philippines, Russia and Rwanda 
are ongoing.
Two new pilots launched: a private health 
insurance project in Malaysia to expand access 
to innovative medicines and premium surgical 
products; and a project in China to improve the 
case finding and diagnosis of TB, including drug-
resistant TB.     
       On track                   View scorecard2017 Health for Humanity Report 36
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 36
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Playing a meaningful role to advance UHC in Kenya
In 2019, Johnson & Johnson was recognized by the Kenya Ministry of Health for its “impactful collaboration,” notably 
in the areas of community health and specialized frontline health worker training. Emphasizing the pivotal role 
“health for all” plays in global prosperity, Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya, declared that 
his country would lead the way by achieving UHC by 2022, eight years ahead of the 2030 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) deadline. Key elements of the government’s strategy to achieve UHC include building resilient and 
responsive primary health systems and investing in preventative and promotive community healthcare.  
Johnson & Johnson’s efforts in Kenya in 2019 and prior years include collaborating with the Kenya Ministry of Health to:
• Co-create Community Health Units for Universal Health Coverage (CHU4UHC) Platform to integrate community 
health workers (CHWs) formally into the health system and to 
deliver preventative healthcare. The CHU4UHC Platform created 
strategies based on World Health Organization guidelines 
to formally integrate CHWs into health systems and build 
sustainable community health systems. The Platform focuses 
on developing policies for training and formalizing CHWs, 
coordinating funding sources, and implementing real-time 
digital reporting systems to track data for impact.
• Develop a platform for nursing and midwifery in Kenya, 
leveraging our experience with the U.S. nursing campaign 
and successful programs through our Johnson & Johnson 
Foundation, such as NurseConnect in South Africa with 6,458 
new nurses registered on the platform, to establish policies for 
nursing education and service.
• Launch the Oncology Nursing Training Initiative to strengthen 
oncology health systems in Kenya that are facing a health 
workforce shortage amid a significant rise in cancer deaths. Only 36 nurses in the country are currently trained in 
oncology, while the need is for at least 500. The oncology initiative leverages the cross-sector competencies of 
Johnson & Johnson companies and local partners to help strengthen the capacity of health systems to improve 
quality management of cancer throughout the cancer pathway: prevention, diagnosis, treatment, care and 
support.
For more information on our work supporting frontline health workers, see the section on Strengthening Health 
Systems.
Progressing dialogue around the world to 
promote UHC
• Indonesia: In 2019, Johnson & Johnson Indonesia sponsored 
a policy dialogue on “Innovative Financing to Achieve 
Sustainable National Health Insurance in Indonesia.” We 
partnered with the Indonesian Parliament’s Health Caucus 
to host the dialogue in collaboration with the Ministry 
of Health and Ministry of Finance. Participants of the 
discussions comprised members of parliament, health 
officials, representatives of various public agencies, hospital 
associations, leading Indonesian academicians and potential 
financing partners. The forum generated action plans to 
help shape domestic resource mobilization using the private 
sector to build sustainable UHC in Indonesia.
• Singapore: Given the Singapore Ministry of Health's bold 
vision to transform its healthcare system from fee-based 
funding (per visit) to value-based funding (per condition) to 
improve accessible and affordable quality healthcare with 
a focus on health outcomes, in 2019, Johnson & Johnson 
Singapore hosted its third Value-Based Healthcare Seminar. 
The seminar brought together over 200 of Singapore’s 
leading public and private stakeholders from the healthcare 
system to discuss how best to scale value-based healthcare 
aligned with the stated vision and supporting UHC in 
Singapore.
• Brazil: As the interest in implementing value-based healthcare 
models continues to grow, Johnson & Johnson Medical 
Devices in Brazil promotes multi-stakeholder discussions 
and events in the country. The largest of these events was 
the International Symposium on Value-Based Healthcare 
(VBHC) at the Latin-American Forum on Quality and Safety in 
Healthcare (fifth edition). Johnson & Johnson figured center-
stage at this event with a symposium on VBHC that included 
the participation of a senior representative of the Agência 
Nacional de Saúde Suplementar as well as Johnson & Johnson 
speakers discussing multiple angles of VBHC implementation 
and policy implication in advancing a more sustainable 
healthcare system.2017 Health for Humanity Report 37
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 37
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
New public-private collaboration to accelerate 
UHC in Africa
At the turn of the year, we announced, together with four leading 
peer companies (Eli Lilly and Company, GSK, Novartis and Pfizer) 
and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, an unprecedented 
program to increase access to community-based primary 
healthcare for nearly 1.7 million people in up to six African 
countries, as part of our shared commitment to accelerate UHC 
in Africa. The partnership will work with two nonprofits that are 
expert in the community health worker model, Last Mile Health  
and Living Goods. Each of the six investors will contribute USD 
$1.5 million total over the next three years. This funding will be 
matched by The Audacious Project, adding up to an $18 million 
total investment that will cover:
• Investing in community health worker training: Community 
health workers can yield a 10:1 return on investment because 
of a healthier population, increased employment, and lower 
odds of health crises, and they represent an efficient and 
effective way to advance UHC. The partnership will support 
the training and deployment of 2,500 digitally enabled 
community health workers, reaching nearly 1.7 million people 
by 2022. Community health workers will be trained and 
deployed in Kenya, Liberia, Malawi, Uganda, and up to two 
additional countries. For more details, see the section on 
Strengthening Health Systems.
• Supporting Last Mile Health’s Community Health Academy: 
The Academy is an open source, digital learning platform 
for community health workers and leaders of health systems 
used worldwide. Training curricula for community health 
workers initially focus on diarrheal diseases, family planning, 
malaria and pneumonia, with further modules planned for the 
future.
• Supporting Living Goods’ new Kenya Performance Lab: 
With the help of the partnership’s expertise and personnel, 
the Lab will advance the development of mobile-based tech 
innovations to improve community health worker productivity 
and strengthen supply chains. Initially, innovations will be 
introduced in Kenya and then scaled to other countries.“ Our goal is embedding patient engagement into 
our business. This means making sure we have direct 
and ongoing dialogue with patients, and that we better 
understand patient needs, and think of and act on patients’ 
perspectives all the time.”
Katherine Capperella, Global Patient Engagement Leader,  
Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson        Highlight
In 2019, PatientView, a global survey organization, 
released its annual Corporate Reputation of Pharma 
report, summarizing the views of 1,500 patient 
advocacy groups across 78 countries on how 
pharmaceutical companies respond to matters most 
important to patients. Janssen ranked number one of 
the largest 13 pharmaceutical companies evaluated 
and third overall of 46 companies evaluated.Patient Engagement
Patients have always been at the center of what we do. 
However, the role of the patient is changing rapidly; patients are 
increasingly involved, educated and engaged in healthcare. At 
Janssen, we are adapting to this change by engaging directly 
with patients and caregivers to develop solutions that better 
meet needs and improve patient outcomes, and are available to 
patients sooner.   
We define patient engagement as partnering with patients and 
caregivers and systematically interacting directly with them 
throughout the product lifecycle to accelerate research and 
develop patient-inspired innovation and solutions beyond the 
product. Our strategy includes four pillars:
• Differentiated higher-value treatments that lead to better 
outcomes by acting on the patient’s perspective early and 
across the lifecycle; 
• Inclusion of the patient’s voice in clinical trial protocols to 
improve patient experience and accelerate research;
• Collaboration with patients to develop tailored solutions to 
empower patients in managing their disease; and
• Shaping regulatory policies and the field of patient 
engagement to enhance the patient’s voice globally.Progressing a range of patient engagement 
initiatives
Patient insights have changed clinical trials: To date, 
approximately 2,000 patients and caregivers from more than 
30 countries have been a part of the Janssen Patient Voice in 
Clinical Trial program, which enables patient insight into clinical 
trial design, and is now a formal step in developing clinical 
studies. Changes made include:
• Reordering the sequence of needed tests and providing rest 
periods in between;
• Modifying wording in Informed Consent Forms and revising 
inclusion/exclusion criteria;
• Reducing certain procedures and/or better explaining the 
rationale for certain procedures; and
• Providing additional support, such as transportation to 
clinical sites.2017 Health for Humanity Report 38
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 38
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Device design insights: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
approval of SPRAVATO (esketamine) in 2019 is not only a 
breakthrough for patients with treatment-resistant depression 
(TRD), it’s also a revolution in Janssen work with patients. See 
R&D: Pharmaceutical   section. 
During the SPRAVATO clinical trials with 1,700 patients, our 
teams collected insights directly with patients to inform the 
design of its unique nasal spray dispenser. Specifically, as a 
result of patient suggestions, we added a depth guide and a 
dose indicator, and adjusted the dispenser design. As a result, 
the approved medicine was more closely in line with patient 
needs, supporting effective use and expected better results for 
patients. 
Patient advocacy: In 2019, our patient engagement teams 
across the world addressed several forums, including the 
Patient Engagement Open Forum in Brussels, where Janssen 
also held "best practice" patient-centricity workshops, and 
Eyeforpharma’s Patient Summit Europe, as well as collaboration 
with Patient Focused Medicines Development and the European 
Patients' Academy.
Using patient input to improve safety: The Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer Experience Center (CxC) is an internal market 
research partner that can elicit feedback from consumers, 
patients and healthcare professionals during the product 
development process. We used CxC to obtain patient 
perspectives on involvement in safety matters. Activities 
included three focus groups in late 2018 to identify patient 
and caregiver perspectives and obtain real-life examples from 
patients. In 2019, the findings were integrated into patient 
engagement safety plans, including, for example, patient 
reporting of side-effects.Using technology to enhance patient engagement 
Enhancing the informed consent process: We also use 
eConsent, which deploys modern technology and multimedia to 
create an interactive informed consent experience for potential 
trial participants. As a key contributor to the TransCelerate 
BioPharma eConsent initiative, Janssen pioneered the 
implementation of eConsent in trials in several countries and 
languages, some of which were ongoing in 2019, and has helped 
advance cross-industry adoption. 
Promoting online health advocates: In 2019, Janssen U.S. 
hosted its fifth annual HEALTHEVOICES leadership conference 
that unites and empowers online patient advocates. In 2019, in 
Texas, we brought together 140 advocates representing more 
than 35 health communities for skill-building, networking and 
empowerment. HEALTHEVOICES continues to be the only event 
dedicated exclusively to strengthening online health advocates. 
Attendees engaged in sessions from how-to workshops on 
content creation and podcasting to discussions on mental 
health and parenting with a chronic illness. Many advocates 
shared their experiences on social media—early on the first 
day, #HealtheVoicesLIVE was already trending nationally and 
#HealtheVoices19 was trending globally.
Advocates representing more than 35 health communities at the fifth 
annual HEALTHEVOICES leadership conference in 2019.2017 Health for Humanity Report 39
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 39
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Contributing to Community Health
GRI 201-1, 203, 203-1, 203-2, 413, 413-1, J&J19-11
At Johnson & Johnson, we actively engage in our communities 
across the globe. Beyond our efforts to tackle the world's 
toughest health challenges and enhance access to healthcare, 
we go the extra mile to support the people at the front lines 
of delivering care, so that communities can more effectively 
address the health needs of the world’s most vulnerable people. 
Our Global Community Impact (GCI) organization—through 
funding from the nonprofit Johnson & Johnson Foundation 
and other functional divisions and operating companies across 
the three Johnson & Johnson business segments—drives 
programming for our community giving, social impact and other 
philanthropic initiatives around the world.
Our GCI programs and solutions are developed by a global 
leadership team in collaboration with regional or country-
level colleagues. We also work across multiple partnerships, 
leveraging the strengths of many to maximize the benefit to the 
communities we serve. For more about employee volunteering, 
see the Empowering People section. 
Strengthening Health Systems
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
In 2019, we took more steps in our significant long-term 
commitment to strengthening the front lines of healthcare, 
driven by our Global Community Impact teams and maintained 
by grants through the Johnson & Johnson Foundation.
A new center to unite our efforts to support the 
front lines of healthcare
During the United Nations General Assembly in September 2019, 
we launched the Center for Health Worker Innovation (CHWI) 
to address the health worker shortage in healthcare today. The 
Center leverages the unique insights of Johnson & Johnson 
with funding through grants from the Johnson & Johnson 
Foundation to reduce the health worker coverage gap, improve 
the quality of care through a thriving frontline health workforce, SDG COMMITMENT PROGRESS
5-year Target: 60 million women and 
children will have received support  
and tools to enable a healthy future. 
 
2016-2019 Progress: 40.6 million women and 
children (68% of overall goal achieved)* 
        
        Off-track   View scorecard
* This five-year target is predominantly supported by Johnson & Johnson 
Foundation grants facilitated by the Global Community Impact organization. 
We are reporting the target as off track due to a shift in our strategy in 
2019 which transitions from programs reaching consumer groups directly 
to programs targeting frontline health workers (i.e., nurses, midwives, and 
community health workers). We believe this transition will have greater, 
more far-reaching and sustainable impact on women's and children’s lives 
in the longer term. The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the critical 
needs facing our frontline health workers and their unique ability to address 
the healthcare needs of our society, and in particular, the underserved. Our 
new commitment acknowledges the pivotal role that health workers play 
in providing essential services to these groups. As such, the programming 
and tracking toward the original goal are transitioning, with fewer programs 
directly reaching women and children and more programs reaching the 
health workers who serve them.
Even with this transition, by the end of the five-year goal period, we 
estimate that we will have reached nearly 50 million women and children 
with support and tools to enable a healthy future (or over 80% of the overall 
target).
We are proud to share that within our Global Disease Challenges goal, our 
VERMOX (mebendazole) Donation Program has improved the health of 
hundreds of millions of children. Those targets are reported separately.
and strengthen primary and community-based health systems. 
CHWI focuses on nurses, midwives and community health 
workers, who are the first point of contact in the health system 
for most patients and communities, and are critical to achieving 
global health priorities, including universal health coverage. 
Priorities for CHWI include working to ensure frontline health 
workers are supported through:
• Respect & Recognition: being valued by the communities 
they serve, and accredited and compensated by government 
and health systems;
• Training & Education: gaining the skills and capabilities 
required to deliver their services with confidence and quality;
• Leadership & Management: provided with opportunities to 
grow as leaders and effective managers;
• Wellbeing & Resilience: ability to prioritize their own health 
and access resources to manage the stress and demands of 
the job; and
• Connection & Integration: helping health workers connect to 
each other, to communities and to health systems.
By 2030, the Center intends to support one million nurses, 
midwives and community health workers, and strengthen health 
systems across five continents. 
In 2019, CHWI launched its first regional intervention hub 
in partnership with the Government of Kenya, co-creating 
the Community Health Units for Universal Health Coverage 
(CHU4UHC) Platform to integrate community health workers 
formally into the health system. Recognizing the role of 
community health workers in delivering preventative and 
promotive healthcare, CHU4UHC is a key strategy toward the 
country’s ambitious goal of achieving universal health coverage 
by 2022. For more details, see the section on Universal  
Health Coverage.2017 Health for Humanity Report 40
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 40
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Advancing training and education for frontline 
health workers
Clinical training to ensure nurses, midwives and community 
health workers have the skills and capabilities to deliver quality 
care with confidence has long been a priority in our programs to 
advance community health. The programs we have continued to 
support in 2019, include:
• Aga Khan University School of Nursing and Midwifery, 
where we have provided scholarships to nursing and 
midwifery students since 2001, enabling graduates to stay 
and work across health facilities in the East Africa region. 
Learn more about this program here. 
• Born On Time, a nonprofit that works closely with local 
governments and stakeholders through preterm birth 
prevention across communities and local health facilities in 
Bangladesh, Mali and Ethiopia. Born On Time has trained 
thousands of nurses, midwives and community health 
workers to date. The program is poised to far exceed its initial 
five-year goals. See this video.
• Safe Birth Even Here, as part of our five-year (2016 – 2020) 
partnership with the United Nations Population Fund in 
Liberia, Haiti and Pakistan aimed at reducing maternal and 
newborn deaths in humanitarian crises and fragile situations. 
This initiative has provided emergency obstetric and newborn 
care training to hundreds of midwives, and thousands of 
women and girls have received health services.  
• UNICEF global partnership, including initiatives to train 
midwives in India, the Philippines and Vietnam. See  
this video.
In 2019, we established a new initiative for nurse education 
financing in Indonesia—a first revolving loan fund to support 
higher education for Indonesian nursing students to finance an 
estimated 2,000 healthcare students in the next 10 years. The 
loan, when repaid, is structured to provide future financing for 
new nursing cohorts.Advancing leadership and management training 
for frontline health workers
We also partner with programs that help build leadership and 
management skills for health workers across health systems, 
so they can grow professionally and become effective agents 
of change. More than 2,000 health system leaders, community 
health supervisors, primary care managers, and individual 
frontline health workers have received training through  
Johnson & Johnson Foundation-supported programs such as:
• The Sigma North America and Africa Maternal-Child 
Health Nurse Leadership Academies: Since 2002, Sigma 
has trained nurses in leadership and management skills, and 
those nurses have in turn improved the quality of care for 
women and young children in North America and Africa.
• The UCLA/Johnson & Johnson Health Care Executive 
Program has helped build the entrepreneurial competence 
of executives from community-based healthcare and AIDS 
service organizations since 2002, enhancing their capacity 
to expand the quality and quantity of care, treatment and 
support delivered to underserved and vulnerable populations 
around the country.
• The Innovating Health for Tomorrow program and the 
Middle East Health Leadership Programme in partnership 
with INSEAD have, since 1998, helped senior healthcare 
leaders across Europe, Middle East and Africa play a vital role 
in transforming health systems.  
• The Management Development Institute, which has trained 
health leaders from across Africa since its inception in 2006, 
focused for the first time in 2019 on training health leaders 
from the surgical field.
• Spark Health Africa’s transformational leadership model is 
helping public-sector teams in Kenya, Uganda and Zimbabwe 
build and reinforce more effective health systems to achieve 
specific health goals, including universal health coverage.        2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
74,000
Together with partners, trained 74,000 birth 
attendants, who assisted in 6 million births.      
       Exceeded                   View scorecard
        2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
12 million
In partnership with Lions Club International, 
supported delivery of 12 million eye care 
screenings and corrective treatments (spectacles) 
to 120,000 underserved children.    
       Achieved                   View scorecard
        2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages activated 
the partnership with (RED) to help fund a diverse 
range of lifesaving HIV/AIDS programs across 
eight countries in sub-Saharan Africa. In prior 
years we activated partnerships with JOHNSON’S, 
LISTERINE, and STAYFREE.     
       On track                   View scorecard
2017 Health for Humanity Report 41
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 41
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Using technology to connect frontline health 
workers
We promote the use of digital technology to connect frontline 
health workers to each other, to communities and to health 
systems. In 2019, the Johnson & Johnson Foundation continued 
to support several digital health programs, for example:   
• We invested in TNH Health to improve healthcare in low-
income populations in Brazil through artificial intelligence 
(AI)-powered chatbots designed to enhance primary care for 
pregnant women as well as patients with non-communicable 
chronic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and obesity. 
• We partnered with South Africa’s pioneering mobile 
messaging program, MomConnect, celebrating its fifth 
anniversary in August 2019. To date, the partnership 
between the South African government, Johnson & Johnson 
and others has supported millions of mothers to care for 
themselves and their children.
• We rolled out mobile messaging initiatives in China (Healthy 
Family App in partnership with UNICEF China and others) 
and in Uganda (FamilyConnect in partnership with the 
Uganda Ministry of Health).
• We partnered with Medic Mobile to launch its Community 
Health Toolkit to help large community healthcare systems 
rapidly adopt ready-to-scale technologies and strategies 
supporting the delivery of health services by health workers 
around the world.A new impact venture  fund to support 
communities
In 2019, we launched our new Johnson & Johnson Impact 
Ventures (JNJIV)—an impact investment initiative within 
the Johnson & Johnson Foundation that targets innovation, 
including digital health platforms and AI technologies to support 
the access and delivery of quality and affordable care. JNJIV has 
committed $5 million to five impact investments in Kenya, the 
UK and Southeast Asia that have been 80% executed; $1 million 
dollars was granted in seed funding for impact investments.
JNJIV is building a global portfolio of innovation social 
enterprises and startups, focusing on addressing the needs of 
low-income populations. A selection of our investments to date 
includes:
• Jacaranda Maternity, a maternity hospital focused on 
providing affordable, patient-centered care to urban mothers 
in Kenya; 
• Flare , a Kenya-based emergency response technology 
platform that connects the largest network of first 
responders and has reduced emergency response time from 
an average of 162 minutes to 20 minutes; 
• WaterEquity, a fund that invests in social enterprises and 
microfinance institutions that deliver access to clean water 
to homes and communities across Southeast Asia and is 
expected to provide 4.5 million people with water access 
over its seven-year term; and
• TNH Health, an AI-enabled public telehealth platform in 
Brazil to monitor health and build resilience.
Johnson & Johnson-supported frontline health workers providing 
maternal health services in Zanzibar, Tanzania.
“ It is my hope that the launch of Johnson & Johnson 
Impact Ventures will help galvanize further private funding 
towards bridging the health gap, improving communities 
globally and ultimately making the world a healthier 
place.”
Joseph Wolk, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,  
Johnson & JohnsonBeneficiaries* of our digital health grants, who 
were connected to the health system via mobile 
technology included: 
6,703 frontline health workers
2,209 ,525  community members
* Includes all the direct beneficiaries and the healthcare professional 
beneficiaries.Our Global Community Impact team with 
grants from the Johnson & Johnson Foundation 
partnered with 183 organizations to advance 
the training, skills-building and leadership 
development of 75,200 health workers in 54 
countries, including:
1 7,61 1  nurses
7, 3 1 5  midwives
19,936  community health workers2017 Health for Humanity Report 42
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 42
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Nursing-led innovation
Johnson & Johnson seeks to further strengthen our 120-year 
commitment to the nursing profession by advocating for 
elevating and empowering nurses as innovative leaders who 
improve patient outcomes and strengthen health systems. Read 
more about our programs to champion nurse innovation at 
nursing.jnj.com. 
Some highlights from 2019 include the launch of the  
Johnson & Johnson Nurse Innovation Platform, which 
incorporated the following:
Johnson & Johnson Nurses Innovate QuickFire Challenge 
Series: The Johnson & Johnson Nurses Innovate QuickFire 
Challenge Series invites nurses worldwide to share new ideas 
for treatments, protocols and devices that aim to profoundly 
change human health. Awardees can earn grants, mentorship 
and coaching from JLABS, our open-innovation ecosystem  
for healthcare entrepreneurs, and others from the  
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies to help bring their 
ideas to life. In 2019, we launched two Nurses Innovate 
QuickFire Challenges and were delighted to announce four 
innovative nurses as awardees:
• Lauren Wright, MSN, PhD student, AGNP-BC, created 
The Natural Nipple, an innovative solution that improves 
maternal and child health outcomes by supporting prolonged 
breastfeeding.
• Abby Hess, APRN, DNP, invented a video game app that 
helps children relax and prepare for surgery. The game is 
controlled by the child breathing into an anesthesia mask.
• Debbie Kantor, APRN, Co-Founder at HERO Medical, 
created the HERO Bandage, a simple one-piece wound care 
dressing for the head or limbs designed to improve the self-
care and monitoring of chronic wounds.
• Chao Hsing Yeh, PhD, RN, Associate Professor at Johns 
Hopkins School of Nursing, developed a new treatment 
based on traditional Chinese medicine acupuncture 
that aims to provide a non-invasive, self-administered 
and nonpharmacological treatment for pre-, intra- and 
postoperative pain.SONSIEL Nurse Hackathon: This past November,  
Johnson & Johnson was the proud sponsor of the inaugural 
SONSIEL Nurse Hackathon, in partnership with the Society 
of Nurse Scientists, Innovators, Entrepreneurs & Leaders 
(SONSIEL), the leading nursing organization for nurse scientists, 
innovators and entrepreneurs. This event brought over 200 
nurses from across the country together for an inspiring and 
energizing weekend of innovation, networking and problem 
solving aimed at finding solutions to the challenges nurses 
experience every day as they deliver care to patients.
Johnson & Johnson Nurse Innovation Fellowship: Launched 
in 2019 in partnership with the Center for Creative Leadership 
and Nurse Approved, the Johnson & Johnson Nurse 
Innovation Fellowship aims to strengthen the leadership and 
entrepreneurial skills of inspired and innovative nurses. In 
the two-year program, our inaugural cohort of 12 Fellows will 
receive individualized mentoring, complete action learning 
projects, and develop lifelong connections to a wider network of 
nurse innovators.
Global signature partnerships and platforms
We maintain several global partnerships and platforms that 
advance healthcare and improve people’s lives. In 2019, we 
engaged with our partners through strategic investments, and 
through our own platforms, around specific needs and events. 
These included: 
CARINGCROWD: To help enable large-scale change for good, 
we created and operate CARINGCROWD, a crowdfunding 
platform for global public health. Anyone anywhere in the world 
can support or lead campaigns on the platform. An independent 
expert panel reviews projects, and funds raised go directly to 
vetted nonprofits. Since its launch, CARINGCROWD has helped 
raise millions of dollars for public health causes and touched 
almost one million lives. See overall impacts here. Examples of 
nonprofits that use CARINGCROWD to touch the lives of those 
who need it most are:
• African Mothers Health Initiative (AMHI): AMHI provides 
home-based nursing care to vulnerable babies and 
postpartum mothers to save lives in rural areas of Malawi, 
where maternal and infant mortality rates are among the 
highest in the world. • Women’s Global Education Project (WGEP): With its 
internationally recognized, award-winning approach to 
women's empowerment, WGEP works to empower women 
and girls through education to build better lives and foster 
equitable communities. When girls are educated, their 
families are healthier, they wed later, and they have more 
opportunities to generate income. 
WGEP provides health education workshops to adolescent girls in Kenya 
and Senegal to empower every girl to stay in school and live up to her 
life's potential.
Since its launch, CARINGCROWD has generated:
$2,023,684  pledged by individuals
$1,249,891  matched by Johnson & Johnson
423  successful campaigns for health projects in
40  countries for 129  nonprofit beneficiaries2017 Health for Humanity Report 43
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 43
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Save the Children: Johnson & Johnson announced a pledge 
of $5 million to Save the Children’s Centennial Commitment in 
September 2019, directed at providing comprehensive mental 
health and psychosocial support across different phases of 
humanitarian response, including for health workers. This 
continues our longstanding partnership with Save the Children, 
supporting a range of programs such as newborn survival, 
support for refugees, response to humanitarian crises and  
joint advocacy.
UNICEF: Johnson & Johnson and UNICEF have worked together 
to strengthen health systems in 20 countries and territories for 
three decades. This year we continued our global partnership, 
including our $10 million pledge from 2018, to build the capacity 
of frontline health workers to improve access and quality of care 
for pregnant women, mothers and their newborns including 
among indigenous communities in Vietnam and the Philippines.
Johnson & Johnson One Young World Program: Since 2013, 
we have partnered with One Young World to provide young 
leaders in healthcare, both within and outside our organization, 
with unique opportunities to contribute to solving some of 
the world’s most pressing health issues. In 2019, for the third 
consecutive year, we collaborated with One Young World to 
offer scholarships to 12 aspiring young leaders working on 
the front lines of delivering care across the globe, including a 
chance to participate in a six-month Global Community Impact 
leadership and capacity-building program.
Operation Smile: For more than 30 years, Johnson & Johnson 
has helped Operation Smile with financial and product 
contributions to provide smiles to children around the world 
born with cleft lips and palates. In 2015, we made a five-year 
$25 million commitment to advancing Operation Smile’s cause, 
and as part of this, in 2019, we held our annual Smile Week, 
supporting fundraising through a range of initiatives around the 
world with the end goal of improving possibilities of surgery 
access for children.Global Citizen: Since 2016, we have partnered with social 
action platform Global Citizen to address public health 
challenges. In 2019, as the Major Health Sponsor, we again 
had a strong presence at the Global Citizen Festival in New 
York on World AIDS Day. At this event, Dr. Paul Stoffels, Vice 
Chairman of Johnson & Johnson's Executive Committee, and 
Chief Scientific Officer, announced that we were commencing 
an HIV vaccine study in men who have sex with men, and in 
transgender populations. Along with Dr. Stoffels at the Festival, 
celebrity Laverne Cox and two nurses from our 5B documentary 
film celebrated the important work done on Ward 5B at San 
Francisco General in the early 1980s to advance the way patients 
with HIV and AIDS are cared for. Read more about these events 
in our section on Making HIV History.
Donate a Photo: This is our long-running program to connect 
people to nonprofits, increasing awareness and resources for 
deserving causes including women’s and children’s health.
Supporting the Special Olympics: Through our Janssen 
business in Europe, we established a partnership with Special 
Olympics Belgium and the Netherlands to raise awareness about 
life with a disability. We hosted a selection of Special Olympics 
athletes to challenge employees to take part in sports activities 
on Challenge Day, as part of the Play Unified Campaign.
Some of the Johnson & Johnson young change-makers during the 2019 
One Young World Summit in London, UK. The Company's theme for its 
2019 young leadership capacity-building program was focused on "Build 
your Resiliency for Change: Adapt, Recover, Grow." 2017 Health for Humanity Report 44
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 44
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Disaster Preparedness & Relief
We work with trusted partners on the front lines of care to help 
communities by coordinating product donations, and through 
programs that help communities recover, rebuild and become 
resilient. See our Position on Disaster Relief. 
In 2019, we allocated $0.7 million in cash and $36.710 million 
worth of Johnson & Johnson products in support for immediate 
mid- and long-term response to crises and natural disasters, 
including Cyclone Idai response in Mozambique, Malawi and 
Zimbabwe, and Hurricane Dorian response in the Bahamas 
and in Australia, following devastation caused by widespread 
bushfires. Our donations were made through nonprofit partners 
to support the provision of products and supplies—and also 
medical teams in some cases.  Our Giving
2019 2018 2017
Total products and cash 
contributed globally 
(millions)$1,806‡ $1,612 $1,469 
Products contributed 
globally (millions)$1,383‡$1,299 $1,242 
Cash contributed globally 
(millions)$423‡$313 $227Our Performance Our giving
At Johnson & Johnson, inspired by Our Credo, we use our scale 
and resources for good, contributing to many causes around the 
world to help advance health and improve people’s lives through 
targeted initiatives providing local support, engaging employees 
in our communities, supporting them in cases of emergencies, 
and donating products for a range of needs. For details of our 
approach, see our Position on Community Impact.
Product donations and financial support
In the United States, we also support independent initiatives 
by donating medicines and funding to the Johnson & Johnson 
Patient Assistance Foundation Inc. (JJPAF), an independent, 
nonprofit organization committed to helping eligible patients 
without insurance coverage receive prescription products 
donated by Johnson & Johnson operating companies. In 2019, 
we donated $1.2 billion in free product and financial support to 
JJPAF, enabling the Foundation to provide medicines at no cost 
to approximately 82,000 patients.
Also, in the United States, in 2019, we joined other leading 
pharmaceutical companies to create the Medicine Assistance 
Tool (MAT) program, connecting patients, caregivers, and 
providers with hundreds of different financial assistance 
programs that may help them afford their medicines. MAT also 
provides patients with more transparency about medicine costs, 
helping them to make more informed healthcare decisions. Supporting Australia
Like many across the world, Johnson & Johnson 
was deeply moved by the scale of the devastating 
bushfires that swept Australia in 2019. To support 
local communities in Australia, we gave $600,000 
in financial support to the Australian Red Cross 
and the Society of St. Vincent de Paul; matched 
donations by employees; and gave over $1.5 
million in consumer personal care and hygiene 
products to Foodbank Australia in addition to 
our ongoing product donation program. We also 
provided uncapped paid leave for our people who 
volunteered with emergency services in response 
to the bushfire crisis.‡ See PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC's) Report of Independent Accountants.2017 Health for Humanity Report 45
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 45
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Innovating for Better Health 
GRI J&J19-10
Over the past 130 years, we’ve learned a lot about how to 
innovate and adapt to evolving health needs—from surgical 
breakthroughs, to tear-free shampoo, to modern treatments 
for HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. That knowledge and experience 
informs our innovation, which is motivated by the need to find 
solutions for everyday health challenges and life-threatening 
conditions; answers to new health threats as they emerge; and 
access to medicines, treatment and care for all. With our global 
reach comes a responsibility and a unique ability to leverage 
our deep expertise and extensive partnerships to unlock the 
full potential of science and technology to improve health and 
wellbeing in response to these needs. Our progress is measured 
by the positive impact we have on the health—and lives—of 
people, communities and society in general. We hope to build a 
future where everyone’s best health is within reach. 
We pursue breakthroughs in science and technology in our own 
laboratories and through our powerful network of scientists and 
entrepreneurs all over the world. The diagram to the right shows 
our innovation vision and four innovation approaches across our 
three business segments. Our Vision:
Positively impact human 
health through innovation Research & Development:
As a broadly based global healthcare 
company with expertise in all stages of 
R&D, Johnson & Johnson provides a wide 
range of R&D support, from discovery 
and early development through clinical 
trial design and regulatory strategy.Company Incubation :
Providing hundreds of incubation 
options for our partners around the 
globe through our JLABS. 
Innovation Acceleration :
Innovation Centers focused on accessing 
innovation from all sources, from inception 
to early stages of development, with 
the potential to make a transformational 
impact on the health and lives of people 
around the globe. Strategic Investing:
Johnson & Johnson Innovation – 
JJDC is the strategic venture capital 
arm of Johnson & Johnson and a 
long-term investment partner to 
healthcare entrepreneurs. 
Pharmaceutical Consumer Health Medical Devices200  active collaborations and partnerships—
from discovery to late-stage pharmaceutical R&D 
development
$11.4 billion  invested in R&D in 2019, an 
increase of 5.4% over 2018
1 7.6 %  of Johnson & Johnson employees 
involved in R&D activities112017 Health for Humanity Report 46
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 46
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
R&D: Pharmaceutical
Our pharmaceutical R&D is focused in areas of medicine 
where we can make the most meaningful impact. These 
include: Cardiovascular & Metabolism, Immunology, Infectious 
Diseases & Vaccines, Neuroscience, Oncology, and Pulmonary 
Hypertension. We apply our expertise in small molecules, 
monoclonal antibodies, cell and gene therapies, RNA 
therapeutics and vaccines. We study biological pathways that 
underpin more than one disease to help speed development of 
new therapies for multiple conditions. We harness cutting-edge 
analytical tools to analyze sources of data to help us better 
identify targets, improve the probability of success in advancing 
promising candidates, reduce research timelines, and evaluate 
our medicines more efficiently and effectively than ever before. 
We progressed Pharmaceutical R&D on several fronts in 2019, 
in addition to those noted in our sections on Tackling the 
World's Toughest Health Challenges and Enhancing Access to 
Healthcare.First new mechanism of 
action in decades to treat 
major depressive disorder
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the 
European Commission both approved SPRAVATO 
(esketamine) CIII nasal spray, in conjunction with an 
oral antidepressant (specifically a SSRI or SNRI in the 
EU), to treat adults with treatment-resistant depression 
(TRD). The medicine is administered as a nasal spray 
that is absorbed by the lining of the nasal passages 
and into the blood stream. To support responsible 
use of the medication while ensuring patient 
access, SPRAVATO was launched with a controlled 
distribution model, including additional monitoring 
and comprehensive risk mitigation strategies. We have 
invested more than eight years in a comprehensive 
development program encompassing 28 clinical trials 
to bring SPRAVATO to the millions of adults who have 
been living with the burden of TRD for far too long.“ Our highly differentiated R&D strategy focuses on 
both disease areas and biological pathways, embraces 
evolving science and technology, drives data sciences into 
all aspects of discovering and developing transformational 
medicines, and reinforces our strong position as a partner 
and accelerator at the center of the biopharmaceutical 
ecosystem.”
Mathai Mammen, M.D., Ph.D.,  Global Head of R&D,  
Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & JohnsonNumber of selected NME Pharmaceutical 
Pipeline – Recent Approvals/Potential Filings 
through 2023 (as of January 22, 2020)* 19
Number of new Janssen medicines approved 
by U.S. FDA over the past five years**7
Number of U.S. FDA Breakthrough Therapy 
Designations received over the past five years**7
* Filings/approvals assumed to be in the U.S. and EU through 2023 unless 
otherwise noted. This information is accurate as of the date hereof to the 
best of the Company’s knowledge. Refer to our Late Stage Pipeline for 
our Pharmaceutical business segment.
** U.S. FDA. “New Drug Therapy Approvals 2019.”
Notes: Number reflects NME approvals achieved by current Janssen 
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson.Our Performance
        Highlight
Janssen Research & Development announced a 
collaboration with the University of California, Berkeley 
and the University of California, San Francisco to 
expand data science research in healthcare. The 
program facilitated by Johnson & Johnson Innovation 
will recruit data scientists to research high-impact, 
data-science projects in healthcare with the goal of 
inspiring data-driven approaches to improve health and 
develop the next generation of leaders in healthcare 
data sciences.2017 Health for Humanity Report 47
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 47
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
A wide range of transformational medicine advances in 2019
• New multiple myeloma medicine approval: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved 
DARZALEX (daratumumab) in combination with bortezomib, thalidomide and dexamethasone (VTd). This 
approval represents the first and only FDA-approved biologic therapy indicated for newly diagnosed patients 
who are eligible for a stem cell transplant.
• Promise for patients with multiple myeloma: The FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for the 
BCMA CAR-T Therapy JNJ-4528. Multiple myeloma is an incurable blood cancer that starts in the bone marrow 
and is characterized by an excessive proliferation of plasma cells, affecting tens of thousands of individuals.
• New leukemia medicine approval: The FDA approved IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) in combination with 
obinutuzumab in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), the 
most common form of leukemia in adults. This is the first approval for a non-chemotherapy combination 
regimen for treatment-naïve patients with CLL/SLL and marks the 10th FDA approval for IMBRUVICA since 
November 2013.
• First-of-its-kind bladder cancer treatment: The FDA granted accelerated approval for BALVERSA (erdafitinib) 
for the treatment of adults with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma. BALVERSA is an important 
new therapy for a subset of patients with urothelial carcinoma who, up until now, had limited treatment options. 
• Advancing treatment for respiratory syncytial virus: The FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation 
for our investigational vaccine for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) lower respiratory tract 
disease in adults aged 60 years or older. Older adults are at risk of developing RSV, a highly contagious 
respiratory infection and a leading cause of bronchitis and pneumonia, affecting more than 64 million people 
each year worldwide.12
• Promise for patients with prostate cancer: The FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for niraparib, 
an orally administered poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor, for the treatment of patients with BRCA1/2 
gene-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Niraparib is an investigational PARP 
inhibitor that we believe may help address an important unmet need for patients with mCRPC.  
• New diabetic kidney disease approval: The FDA approved INVOKANA (canagliflozin) to treat diabetic kidney 
disease (DKD) and reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure in patients with type 2 diabetes. The 
approval, which is based on the landmark Phase 3 CREDENCE renal outcomes study, makes INVOKANA the 
only medicine in nearly 20 years approved to slow the progression of DKD.R&D: Medical Devices 
In a radically changing environment, we make connections 
across science and technology to combine our own expertise in 
surgery, orthopaedics, interventional solutions and vision care 
with the big ideas of others to design and deliver innovative 
solutions for doctors and patients. Areas of progress in 2019 
include:
Advancing digital surgery: Part of our strategy to create the 
next frontier of surgery is empowering healthcare providers 
and surgeons to drive even better outcomes for patients. We 
announced our acquisition of Auris Health, a privately held 
developer of robotic platform technology, currently focused 
on enabling new possibilities in lung cancer procedures. This 
acquisition accelerates our entry into robotics with a FDA-
cleared platform currently available in the United States.
Improving surgical outcomes: Johnson & Johnson Medical 
Devices Companies introduced our new ECHELON CIRCULAR 
Powered Stapler to help address complications associated with 
colorectal, gastric and thoracic surgery. When using staples or 
sutures, there is a risk of complications from leaks at the staple 
line, which can lead to increased discomfort for the patient, 
longer hospital stays and potentially serious illness. This new 
stapler provides gentler handling to reduce the force required to 
complete the stapling process and is proven to reduce leaks by 
up 61% compared to similar devices. Read more here.“ In this new era of healthcare, we’re aiming to simplify 
surgery, drive efficiency, reduce complications and improve 
outcomes for patients, ultimately making surgery safer. We 
believe the combination of best-in-class robotics, advanced 
instrumentation and unparalleled end-to-end connectivity 
will make a meaningful difference in patient outcomes.”
Ashley McEvoy, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman,  
Medical Devices, Johnson & Johnson2017 Health for Humanity Report 48
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 48
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
R&D: Consumer Health
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health believes in caring for 
people around the world by creating solutions and experiences 
that help them live healthy, vibrant lives. Our products help 
advance everyday care for healthier consumers at every stage 
of life, and meet the health needs of families across the globe 
through a broad range of well-known and trusted healthcare and 
over-the-counter products. We also bring Johnson & Johnson’s 
unique perspective as the world’s largest healthcare company 
together with technology expertise and partnerships to create 
high-performance products for healthy skin. Consumer Health 
highlights in innovation in 2019 include: 
Investing in consumer health technology: In line with our belief 
that consumers are increasingly using digital health tools to 
augment care regimens and seeking more wellness-focused 
products, Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JJDC became 
the corporate strategic partner and first investor in a new 
consumer health technology accelerator, in partnership with 
London-headquartered startup studio and accelerator Founders 
Factory . The goal of the collaboration is to grow the health tech 
and startup community in the New York City region by investing 
in 25 startups in consumer healthcare over the next five years, 
with an emphasis on areas such as personalized care, female 
health and mental health.
Innovation for children: Parents spend 17 minutes on average 
trying to get their kids to take medicine. In response, we 
introduced Children’s TYLENOL Dissolve Packs for parents 
who wanted more options for kids who won’t take liquid 
medications and aren’t ready for chewables or tablets yet. This 
is the first and only pediatric acetaminophen product that is 
offered as a dissolvable product. Each tablet contains 160 mg 
of acetaminophen and comes in a dissolve pack that can be 
poured directly onto a child's tongue and will dissolve almost 
immediately.
Presenting Innovation in skin science: Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer Health presented a diverse portfolio of scientific 
research across skin and hair physiology at the 2019 American 
Academy of Dermatology (AAD) Annual Meeting in Washington, 
D.C., including 13 Scientific ePosters and a preview of the latest 
innovations in skin health technology. New knee replacement technology: We introduced the 
ATTUNE Cementless Knee as an addition to our knee solutions 
range. The cementless knee replacement is particularly relevant 
for younger, more energetic patients who have healthy, strong 
bone and wish to maintain an active lifestyle. This cementless 
option, which is based on biological fixation and in-growth 
of the implant to bone, promises to enable this. The ATTUNE 
Cementless Knee features several patented technologies 
designed to improve knee function. Read more here.
New registry for patients with liver disorders: 
Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies launched a 
new global registry to collect and analyze real-world data on 
patients with soft tissue liver lesions. The observational registry 
will follow approximately 1,500 patients worldwide for a total 
of five years from the date of their first liver ablation procedure 
with Ethicon's NEUWAVE Microwave Ablation System, our 
minimally invasive microwave ablation technology. The registry 
will be an important contribution to our understanding of this 
liver ablation procedure and provide robust clinical evidence 
to inform treatment decisions and improvements in procedural 
efficiency and patient outcomes.
Helping people see better, connect better, live better:  
Johnson & Johnson Vision, part of our Medical Devices 
business, launched 10 new products in 2019. Included in these 
was the TECNIS Eyhance Intraocular Lens (IOL), the first 
monofocal IOL to deliver improved intermediate vision and 
20/20 distance vision. In addition, the Company showed positive 
Phase 3 clinical results on its first-of-its-kind drug-eluting anti-
allergy contact lens. Johnson & Johnson Vision also launched its 
inaugural “Vision for Good” community impact report detailing 
efforts to provide access to eye care for those in need through 
advocacy and education, and serving more than 40 million 
people to date.Innovation in skin care
In 2019, NEUTROGENA, our dermatologist-
recommended skin care brand, launched a new 
collection, NEUTROGENA BRIGHT BOOST, 
which features NEOGLUCOSAMINE, a gentle, 
non-acid amino sugar that helps speed up surface 
cell renewal to brighten and even skin tone. A 
NEUTROGENA survey conducted online by The 
Harris Poll among over 1,100 U.S. women aged 
18+ showed that nearly two-thirds (66%) of U.S. 
millennial women aged 23 – 38 have noticed a 
shift in their skin's brightness. Read more about 
the unique collaboration that led to this new skin 
care line, which meets the diverse needs of all skin 
types in different environments around the world.
We also introduced the NEUTROGENA Blackhead 
Eliminating Nose Strip to Scrub, a two-in-one 
pore strip and exfoliating scrub, designed to be 
gentle enough for daily use and sensitive skin. The 
treatment targets blackheads and penetrates pores 
while exfoliators gently clear away blackhead-
causing dirt and oil.
“ Johnson & Johnson scientists are globally recognized for 
delivering meaningful products and solutions to our patients 
and consumers. Our R&D employees combine the power 
of science with deep human insights to develop products 
in the areas of Skin Health, OTC and other essential health 
franchises—such as Oral Care, Baby Care, Women’s Health 
and Wound Care—that help people take better care of 
themselves and their loved ones.”
Caroline Tillett, Global Head of R&D, Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer Health2017 Health for Humanity Report 49
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 49
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Innovation Networks
GRI JNJ19-5
Our mission is to create the leading global innovation network 
to generate transformational healthcare solutions through value-
building external collaborations and partnerships.
Our goal is to unleash the power of science and technology to 
advance the health of everyone, everywhere. Fundamentally, 
Johnson & Johnson seeks to bring forth highly differentiated 
new healthcare solutions that extend and improve lives, not just 
through therapeutics, but also medical devices, consumer health 
products and integrated technology-enabled solutions.
Innovation acceleration
The Johnson & Johnson Innovation Centers in San Francisco, 
Boston, London and Shanghai identify transformational 
early-stage healthcare innovation. They develop strategic 
collaborations with academics, startup companies and other 
entrepreneurs across their regions, who wish to partner with 
us to accelerate their novel science and technologies to make a 
transformational impact on human health.Collaboration in genome sequencing: In September 2019, a 
new collaboration was launched in the UK between government, 
a research charity and industry. Johnson & Johnson Innovation 
facilitated the collaboration for the Whole Genome Sequencing 
(WGS) project on behalf of Janssen Research & Development. 
The WGS project will sequence the complete genetic code of 
500,000 UK Biobank volunteers. It is the single most ambitious 
sequencing program in the world undertaken as a public-
private initiative, representing a potential major advance for 
public health. The project is expected to create meaningful 
insights into complex diseases during the nine-month window of 
preferred access to the data. Subsequently, the data will then be 
open to the global scientific community to interrogate and find 
disease-related information and potential solutions.
Early-stage drug discovery in China: In an agreement 
facilitated by our Asia Pacific Innovation Center, Janssen 
Research & Development is collaborating with HitGen, a 
Chinese biotech company with an industry-leading platform for 
early-stage drug discovery research centered on DNA-encoded 
chemical libraries. This agreement aims to design and build 
novel DNA-encoded libraries to discover unique small molecule 
assets to be used in drug discovery and development. This new 
program builds on the success of our earlier agreements, the 
outcomes of which helped us identify opportunities to support 
the discovery of a new generation of medicines to address 
unmet clinical challenges.
Partnering for breakthrough healthcare innovation:  
Johnson & Johnson Innovation partnered with the U.S. 
National Academy of Medicine in its Healthy Longevity Global 
Competition, launched in 2019. This multi-year, multimillion-
dollar competition in the United States is internationally seeking 
breakthrough innovations to extend human health and help 
people age well and live longer, healthier lives.Life science incubation
Through Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JLABS, our life 
science incubator network for innovators, we support hundreds 
of entrepreneurs working to turn breakthrough science 
and technologies into transformative solutions in biotech, 
pharmaceutical, medical devices, consumer health and health 
technology programs.
First JLABS in Asia Pacific: Launched in June 2019 in 
collaboration with local government and the Shanghai Pharma 
Engine Company, JLABS @ Shanghai is the first JLABS facility 
established in Asia Pacific. The state-of-the-art 4,400-square-
meter facility can accommodate up to 50 life science startups 
focused on innovations across the healthcare spectrum, 
including pharmaceuticals, medical devices, consumer health 
and health technology sectors.
JLABS @ Washington, DC: Johnson & Johnson Innovation 
and Children’s National Hospital announced a collaboration to 
launch JLABS @ Washington, DC, a 32,000-square-foot facility 
at the new Children’s National Research & Innovation Campus 
on the historic Walter Reed Army Medical Center campus in the 
nation’s capital. The co-location with key partners in the areas of 
public health research, innovation and incubation will be critical 
to accelerating breakthrough discoveries into new treatments 
and technologies. JLABS @ Washington, DC will be opened 
in 2020 to companies aiming to advance the development of 
new drugs, medical devices, precision diagnostics and health 
technologies, including applications in pediatrics.13 locations around the world
600+  companies, including current resident 
companies and alumni
145+  collaborations with Johnson & Johnson
4 Innovation Centers on three continents
65+  deals executed in 2019
$145+ million  capital deployed on new 
deals in 20192017 Health for Humanity Report 50
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 50
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Strategic investing in innovation
Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JJDC  is the strategic venture 
capital arm of Johnson & Johnson and a long-term investment 
partner to healthcare entrepreneurs. To date, JJDC has invested 
in hundreds of emerging life sciences companies developing 
healthcare solutions. It is a key element in our strategy to bring new 
healthcare products to the people who need them. We understand 
that each company is unique and requires a distinct investment 
strategy. At JJDC, we believe strongly in value-add investing and 
play an active role in the companies in which we invest. 
In 2019, JJDC continued to rank as the Number One investor 
in Healthcare Corporate Venture Capital13 for healthcare 
investments, deploying more than $500 million across over 
40 pharmaceutical, consumer health and medical devices 
companies in the United States and internationally. Recent 
investments include:
• Auris Health, expanding digital surgery through robotics (see  
R&D: Medical Devices section);
• CARA CARE, personalizing treatment recommendations for 
people living with acute and chronic digestive conditions; 
and
• Ribon Therapeutics, pioneering a novel approach to cancer 
treatment.
Read more about these companies in our 2019 JJDC Newsletter.Cross-company innovation
Where possible, we seek to leverage our expertise across our 
different business segments in a holistic approach to address 
pressing healthcare challenges. We achieve this by establishing 
hubs or centers of excellence to harness resources from 
different parts of the business to deliver optimum solutions. 
Similarly, we address certain developments, such as the 
application of digital technology, from an enterprise perspective 
as well as within each business segment. Examples from 2019 
of these specific areas of activity that go beyond the above-
mentioned modes of innovation include:
The Johnson & Johnson Lung Cancer Initiative: The Lung 
Cancer Initiative is dedicated to transforming the standard 
of care for this devastating disease. Our vision is to develop 
solutions that prevent, intercept and cure lung cancer. By 
focusing on the underlying biology of the progression from 
risk to disease and accessing the best science and innovation 
available anywhere in the world, we aim to eliminate lung 
cancer with holistic solutions that combine pharmaceutical, 
medical devices and consumer health approaches. An example 
is the Auris Health collaboration. Auris Health's MONARCH 
Platform with robotic bronchoscopy may significantly enhance 
clinicians’ ability to diagnose peripheral lung nodules today, and 
in the future will integrate the latest advancements in medical 
devices technologies and local drug therapies to enable earlier 
diagnosis and treatment.
World Without Disease Accelerator: The World Without 
Disease Accelerator (WWDA) at Johnson & Johnson focuses 
on the discovery, development and application of disruptive 
products and technologies, business models and partnerships 
to eliminate disease. The group brings together capabilities 
in areas including the microbiome, immunosciences, sensors 
and wearables, predictive analytics and behavioral sciences to 
seed transformative growth opportunities and solutions for the 
prevention, interception and cure of disease. An example of this 
is where the WWDA is exploring multiple innovative approaches 
like digital twins to monitor, maintain and personalize an  
individual’s health.
Janssen technicians preparing doses of the Company’s developmental 
CAR-T therapy.46+  year legacy
40+  investments in 2019
$500+ million  capital deployed in 20192017 Health for Humanity Report 51
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 51
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Advancing digital healthcare technologies
Advancing digital healthcare technologies: We aim to integrate 
the most advanced technologies throughout our healthcare 
developments. The enabling potential of technology can 
accelerate our ability to change the trajectory of human health. 
At any given time, we are collaborating with multiple partners 
across diverse health topics to drive the use of technology and 
data in novel ways for better health outcomes. In the surgical 
field, we are building a comprehensive digital ecosystem 
that uses advanced technologies across all types of surgical 
procedures, leveraging connected intelligence to deliver 
enhanced experiences and outcomes for patients, surgeons, and 
healthcare systems. We also use technology to support health 
workers at the front lines of healthcare; see our section on using 
technology to connect frontline health workers.
Several digital technology initiatives gained ground in 2019: 
• Using artificial intelligence in orthopaedics: DePuy Synthes, 
our orthopaedic medical devices business, entered into a 
global co-development and commercialization agreement 
with Zebra Medical Vision, a medical imaging analytics 
company, to bring artificial intelligence (AI) opportunities to 
orthopaedics, based on imaging data. Zebra Medical Vision’s 
technology uses algorithms to create three-dimensional 
models from X-ray images that will help bring affordable 
preoperative surgical planning to surgeons worldwide.
• Using virtual reality headsets to train surgeons: We 
partnered with startup Osso VR to distribute between 150 
and 200 OCULUS QUEST headsets to surgeons in the United 
States starting in April 2020, with a goal of expanding the 
program worldwide over time. Virtual reality (VR) technology 
allows surgeons to train where they are instead of having to 
travel. Eventually, surgeons and support staff could use VR to 
train together from separate locations.
• New lab for 3D bioprinting: We opened a Bioprinting 
Lab located at Trinity College Dublin, creating a space to 
innovate in the exciting field of bioprinting that has the 
potential to revolutionize patient care. The 3D Bioprinting 
Lab was created and is collaboratively operated with the 
Center for Advanced Materials and BioEngineering Research 
(AMBER) at Trinity College Dublin, led by the Science 
Foundation Ireland (SFI). This lab, our first 3D printing collaborative laboratory partnership with a university 
outside the United States, demonstrates our commitment 
to supporting 3D bioprinting innovation to advance patient 
care and to transforming the course of human health. During 
the year, SFI recognized our AMBER collaboration with the 
Industry Partnership Award for 2019 on research to develop 
a new class of 3D-printed biological implants designed to 
regenerate, rather than replace, diseased joints.  
• New digital health report: We were proud to support 
the inaugural 2019 State of Digital Health report, which 
provides the first-ever snapshot of digital health ecosystems 
throughout the world and lays the foundation for better-
informed and coordinated investments in digital health. The 
report presents data collected from the 22 countries across 
six regions that participate in the Global Digital Health 
Index (GDHI). The GDHI is a multi-stakeholder initiative led 
by a Steering Committee, of which Johnson & Johnson is a 
member.
• Inaugural Data Science Showcase: In October 2019, leaders 
and data scientists from across the enterprise gathered for 
the first-ever Johnson & Johnson Data Science Showcase. 
Sponsored by the Johnson & Johnson Data Science Council, 
the event illustrated the diverse applications for leveraging 
data to unlock insights to transform healthcare. The Data 
Science Council is populated by cross-functional experts from 
across the Company and is organized around workstreams 
addressing infrastructure and data sharing, security and 
privacy, and enabling a highly data-driven decision-making 
culture.
• HEARTLINE Virtual Study for heart health: Janssen 
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson, in 
collaboration with Apple, opened enrollment in early 2020 
for the HEARTLINE Study after a detailed planning process 
that started in 2018. The study will explore if the HEARTLINE 
Study app on IPHONE and heart health features on APPLE 
WATCH can improve health outcomes, including reducing 
the risk of stroke, with earlier detection of atrial fibrillation 
(AFib). AFib, a common form of irregular heart rhythm, is a 
leading cause of stroke in the United States.        Highlight
Investing in data science: Data science is a driver 
of astonishing health technology innovation 
today, and we are at an inflection point where 
health, technology and consumer industries are 
converging in new ways. Across the Company, 
we are employing leading-edge analytical tools, 
including machine learning, deep learning, natural 
language processing, and more to analyze new and 
expanded sources of data. We are leveraging data 
science to unlock disease insights and enhance the 
effective, efficient discovery and development of 
transformative medicines, create more meaningful 
consumer experiences, and deliver better 
outcomes for patients around the world. We are 
also committed to building a thriving network of 
collaborations that strengthen and leverage data 
science capabilities, advance compelling scientific 
research, and develop the next generation of 
leaders in healthcare data sciences.2017 Health for Humanity Report 52
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 52
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Responsible business practices serve as the foundation of our 
Company’s success and are imperative to protecting the broader 
healthcare system and the communities in which we live and work. 
We nurture a culture of ethical leadership and integrity in our diverse, 
skilled workforce, committed to serving all those who count on us to 
provide high-quality, safe and reliable products.
Whether we are seeking to protect the data and privacy of our 
patients and consumers, being transparent about our business 
activities, engaging with suppliers or assessing options for safe, 
ethical and patient-centered decision-making, we seek to sustain 
the trust earned over the course of more than 130 years of business 
operations.Responsible 
Business 
Practices
Employees from Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson working together toward shared goals, 
because collaboration is in our DNA and that is how our top breakthroughs happen.2017 Health for Humanity Report 53
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 53
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Key Achievements in 2019
• Enrolled suppliers representing 71% of spend in our 
Sustainable Procurement Program. 
• The only healthcare company to be recognized for the third 
year in a row as a CDP Supplier Engagement Leader for 
leadership in supplier engagement to tackle climate change.  
• Introduced our new recognition platform, Inspire, to all global 
employees to strengthen our culture of recognition and 
enhance the employee experience. 
• Advanced our holistic approach to human rights through the 
establishment of the Enterprise Human Rights Governance 
Council. Areas of Opportunity
• Advance the maturity of our supplier risk management 
program through governance and supplier stratification.
• Continue to introduce end-to-end approaches, programs, 
policies and initiatives to attract, develop and retain diverse 
talent across the organization.
Policies and Positions
Our policies and positions relating to Responsible Business 
Practices are referenced throughout this section. In addition, 
please visit ESG Policies & Positions on our website.43% of Manager and above 
talent movement
that was across function,  
country or business segment lines*
Ranked #1 
on Gartner’s 2019 Healthcare Supply 
Chain Top 25 list
$1.6 billion spend with diverse suppliers46% of management roles held  
by women
* Represents the proportion of employees in Manager 
and above job categories who in their career progression 
movement (including upward promotion, downward 
demotion, or lateral transfer) crossed function, country or 
business segment lines. 2017 Health for Humanity Report 54
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 54
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Empowering People
GRI 102-8, 404, 404-1
As the world's largest and most broadly based healthcare 
company, directly employing more than 130,000 individuals 
conducting business in virtually all countries of the world, 
Johnson & Johnson plays an important role in the local, regional 
and global communities we touch. Rooted in Our Credo, we 
are committed to supporting the individuals who form our 
Family of Companies. We know that fostering a culture that is 
values-based, responsible, ethical and inclusive motivates and 
empowers our employees. This culture enables us to attract and 
retain the most talented people, engage them in meaningful 
and inspiring work, and as a result, fulfill our business goals and 
objectives. In doing so, we propel our purpose to advance health 
for everyone, everywhere, and help grow prosperity around  
the world.
“ At Johnson & Johnson, Our Credo defines our 
responsibility to our employees. By continuing to prioritize 
inclusion, health, wellbeing and safety, and continuous 
growth and development, we are fostering a culture where 
employees feel valued and can deliver the innovations that 
contribute to our mission of improving health around the 
world.”
Peter Fasolo, Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources  
Officer, Johnson & JohnsonOur Leadership Imperatives align all Johnson & Johnson 
employees around a shared set of behaviors that will
enable us to shape the health of generations to come.
Demonstrates and models the heart of Johnson & Johnson
Connect
inclusively to address health needs
• Builds internal and external 
relationships based on respect 
• Seeks, listens to and incorporates 
diverse points of view
• Collaborates openly across 
boundaries and acts as 
a team playerthe future of health through innovationShape
• Inspires and contributes ideas 
that challenge thinking
• Courageously tries new things, 
tests and learns from mistakes
• Demonstrates resilience and agility 
to drive and adapt to change
Grow
• Develops self and others to reach their goals
• Engages in open and honest conversations
• Drives performance by managing energy
and taking ownership for outcomesself and others to become our best
  Connect  Shape
                GrowOur
Credo & 
Our Purpose Live Our Credo & Pursue Our PurposeOur Leadership 
Imperatives
• Puts the needs of Our Credo stakeholders /f_irst
• Pursues the highest standards of quality, safety, compliance and ethics
• Ensures everyday actions contribute to Our Purpose
In 2019, we updated our Leadership Imperatives, which define a clear set of behaviors and 
expectations that will enable us to shape the health of generations to come. We launched this new 
framework to all employees globally and introduced the new imperatives into our annual goals and 
objectives, development programs and training materials. Our Leadership Imperatives2017 Health for Humanity Report 55
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 55
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Attracting & Developing Our People
GRI 401-2, 401-3, 404, 404-2,404-3        
SASB: HC-BP-330a.1; HC-BP-330a.2
As a company with an inspiring purpose, ethical approach and 
global reach, we offer current and potential employees diverse 
opportunities to develop personally and professionally. Our 
approach to attracting, recruiting and retaining a global, diverse 
team of employees is rooted in partnerships with professional 
organizations and top universities, and in relationships with 
graduate students. Across the world, our executives teach 
courses and engage with the next generation of healthcare 
leaders at universities and college campuses. We also tailor our 
approach with specific strategies to meet the varying needs of 
our different business segments. We augment these recruitment 
efforts by leveraging cutting-edge digital platforms, social 
media and online engagements. 
Employee recruitment 
Our recruitment activities in 2019 include:
• Strengthened our talent acquisition capabilities in those 
markets where we launched our new ways of working, 
reducing time to fill new roles by 10% and improving the 
candidate experience with a high satisfaction score for our 
recruitment process;
• Expanded Re-Ignite, our paid returnship program for 
experienced technical professionals, deepening our 
recruitment performance in critical capability areas; 
• Encouraged employee referrals, which continue to be a 
top source of new recruits, leading to 4,639 new hires, 
representing 15.8% of our recruiting efforts; and 
• Localized our internal online recruitment tool, hire.jnj.com, 
to provide end-to-end guidance in 12 languages, access to 
resources and tools, process transparency and speed to hire 
the best candidates in 25 countries.21,948  positions filled in 2019 across the 
Company, including those in our most critical growth 
areas of external innovation, oncology, immunology, 
market access and data science.
43%  of Managers and above moved across 
functions, country or business segment lines.14
$98 million  spent with vendor partners 
to ensure our leaders and employees receive the 
essential leadership and functional training to grow 
and develop.Helping the best come back to Johnson & Johnson: In 2019, we 
introduced Re-Ignite, our paid four-month returnship program 
for experienced professionals who have taken a break of two 
years or more from a STEM2D career. The program includes 
in-depth onboarding, mentoring support, technical training 
and alumni guidance during the returnship period. Through the 
Re-Ignite program, we are able to tap into a new talent pool of 
experienced, highly engaged, technical leaders who appreciate 
our efforts to foster a supportive, inclusive environment 
that highly covets technical and professional skills. In 2019, 
all individuals completing the program moved into full-time 
positions at Johnson & Johnson.Employee development
To continue to lead in the changing healthcare landscape, our 
employees must be equipped with the right knowledge and 
skills, and motivated by the prospects of new challenges or 
career development opportunities. Investing in professional 
development with a clear process for performance management 
enables us to deliver opportunities for all while contributing to 
enhancing the professional skill base of local economies in the 
regions in which we operate. See our Position on Employee 
Development.
Our employee development activities in 2019 include the 
following:
• Engaged 313 employees in accelerated leadership 
development programs for high-potential and diverse talent.
• Supported nearly 7,000 people leaders in leadership 
development, resulting in participants feeling more equipped 
to perform their role. 
• Invested in new technology in China to pilot a Talent 
Marketplace, a platform leveraging a gig-economy mindset, 
which allows employees to elect to work on short-term 
projects based on their interest areas, skills and personal 
purpose. Since the launch to employees in China, nearly 50 
projects have been initiated that incorporated cutting-edge 
areas, such as big data, artificial intelligence and new retail.
• Launched the Data Science Academy, as well as digital skills 
training, to support employees in building digital acumen 
and a better understanding of technology in key areas that 
include data science, automation and digital experience.2017 Health for Humanity Report 56
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 56
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
3,537 new leaders participated in our 
Enterprise Leader Development Program in 2019, 
bringing the total number of leaders trained to 
date to 7,996.
89%  of employees globally completed year-end 
performance reviews in 2019. 
1,262  of U.S. and Puerto Rico employees 
participated in the tuition reimbursement program.Our suite of leadership and 
development programs
TAP
Early Career AELAccelerate Enterprise  
Leadership ( AEL )Accelerate Ex ecutiv e 
Orientation (AEO)
Talent Acceleration 
Process (T AP) ASCEND
Accelerated 
Development Pr ogram f or 
Women
RISE
Accelerated Program f or 
Racially and Ethnically 
Diverse T alentInternational 
Development 
Program (IDP) IDPA
S
C
E
N
DR
I
S
E
Leadership programs: To help transform the future of health for humanity, we must have highly capable leaders across our 
business. To achieve this, we are transforming how we assess and develop people leaders. We maintain a suite of leadership 
and development programs to accelerate the process of individuals who have been identified through our succession planning 
process as having the potential to fulfill more senior leadership roles within the Enterprise.
Developing R&D leaders: In 2019, Johnson & Johnson Innovation introduced the Johnson & Johnson Innovation Champions 
program, a new professional growth opportunity available to R&D scientists across the organization. Designed to provide 
our R&D scientists with an enrichment experience through exposure to external innovation, the program also helps leverage 
their expertise to accelerate scientific and medical advances. The program runs in cohorts over a six-month period, offering 
the opportunity for each group to gain additional skills and knowledge, and to build a network while remaining in role. The 
Champions program augments our existing EXPAND platform, which offers scientists the possibility of a six-month secondment 
to an external innovation organization, such as a startup or venture capital fund, to both learn and contribute in a completely 
different environment.2017 Health for Humanity Report 57
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 57
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Year-End Performance Reviews Completed by Job Category
2019 2018 2017
Vice President 76% 72% 73%
Manager and Director 90% 90% 89%
Professional 90% 89% 88%
Other* 82% 86% 90%
Overall for all employees 89% 89% 88%Our Performance
* Category includes employees who don’t have a merit plan as part of their compensation package.
‡ 
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.Employee Turnover
2019 2018
Overall voluntary turnover 8%‡8%
Voluntary turnover of high performers 4%‡4%Spend on Employee Learning and Development by Category (millions)
2019 2018
Other professional skills $52 $47
General leadership training and assessments $17 $22
E-learning $5 $7
Executive coaching $10 $6
Other $14 $8
Total $98 $902017 Health for Humanity Report 58
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 58
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Employee compensation & benefits
We are committed to compensating our employees fairly and 
offering benefits that meet the changing needs of today’s 
employees and their families. Through our compensation 
framework, a set of core principles that guide all compensation 
decisions, we recognize the important contribution of our 
employees to delivering our mission in ways that align with our 
values. We observe legal minimum wage provisions and aim to 
exceed these where possible. We are committed to pay equity, 
including gender and racial/ethnic group pay equity. From time 
to time, we analyze our pay across functions and levels, and 
strive to eliminate unconscious bias or other barriers to full 
pay equity across the Enterprise. Our benefits packages aim to 
improve the quality of life for employees by providing practical 
support for family, health and wellbeing, education and long-
term financial management needs.
Activities in 2019 to enhance employee benefits include:   
• Deployed an enhanced Employee Assistance Program 
globally to more than 118,000 employees and family members 
in 72 countries and 23 languages; 
• Introduced a flexible benefits plan to employees in China, 
granting employees there more choice in how to allocate 
their retirement savings;
• Offered an extra week of paid leave for new hires and 
employees in the United States with one to two years of 
service; and 
• Introduced Custom Target Date Funds, providing nine  
new and personalized investment options in the  
Johnson & Johnson Savings Plan (for U.S. employees). 
These benefits add to an existing holistic range of benefits—
starting with health and wellbeing and extending to retirement 
planning and finances—that are available to our employees 
around the world. See also our Position on Employee 
Compensation and Benefits.  Our Performance
  2019 2018 2017
U.S. employees who took parental leave, by gender    
     Women 47% 44% 41% 
     Men 53% 56% 59% 
U.S. employees who returned to work after parental leave ended, by gender    
     Women 98% 98% 98%
     Men 100% 100% 99%U.S. Employee Benefits2017 Health for Humanity Report 59
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 59
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Engaging & Inspiring
We engage and empower our employees by fostering a work 
culture where everyone can make their voice heard, and provide 
platforms for employees to express their creativity and make 
a meaningful contribution to address social or environmental 
challenges.
Our 2019 activities in engaging and inspiring employees include:
Our global employee Our Voice Survey: Johnson & Johnson's 
biennial Our Voice Survey is a significant indicator of employee 
satisfaction, and measures important aspects of our culture such 
as employee engagement, inclusion, development, health and 
wellness, collaboration, execution, innovation, and compliance 
and risk. 
Key results from our 2019 Our Voice Survey: 
• 90%  response rate (among all active employees).
• 95%  agreed with the statement: I am willing to give extra 
effort to help Johnson & Johnson meet its goals. 
• 87% agreed with the statement: I feel a strong sense of 
purpose and meaning in my work.
• 87% agreed with the statement: I would recommend  
Johnson & Johnson as a great place to work.
• 69%  agreed with the statement: In my workgroup, we 
eliminate practices that stand in the way of achieving results.
We benchmark our performance on the Our Voice Survey 
with the Mayflower Group, which is a consortium of top-tier, 
global companies dedicated to employee surveys. We are in 
the top quartile of Mayflower Group companies with regard 
to employees recommending the Company as a great place 
to work and wanting to stay with the Company—both critical 
components of employee engagement.Following analysis of the detailed results, which were 
communicated to all employees, we developed plans to address 
the main areas of opportunity identified by our employees’ 
voice, both at corporate level and within individual teams.
In alternate years we issue a global Our Credo Survey, 
which tracks how we are living into Our Credo values and 
responsibility to stakeholders, including employees.
A new program for employee recognition: At  
Johnson & Johnson, we are committed to building a culture 
where great work and purpose-led behaviors are routinely 
celebrated by others in a meaningful and memorable way. In 
2019, we launched Inspire, a new employee recognition program 
to encourage colleagues across our regions, functions and 
sectors to celebrate their coworkers and the great work they 
are doing every day. Inspire provides a digital platform to deliver 
personal, sincere, and meaningful recognition, shared through a 
real-time, Company awards messaging feed.  
A new channel for communication: In 2019 we introduced J&J 
Responds, an internal website that provides employees with 
our statements on the latest news and high-profile topics. J&J 
Responds explains our position and provides other contextual 
information to keep employees informed in a centralized and 
streamlined way. This new channel flexes to meet the needs of 
our Company and, in early 2020, we launched a J&J Responds 
microsite dedicated to COVID-19 to share the latest guidance, 
resources and policies in support of the wellness of our 
employees, our communities and those we serve worldwide.     
Providing employees with opportunities to use their Talent 
for Good: Our Talent for Good Strategy is creating a movement 
of change-makers across Johnson & Johnson by empowering 
more employees to use their talent for good and pave the way 
to a healthier future for everyone, everywhere. Across the globe, 
our employees are applying their time and resources to build 
healthier communities and be a catalyst of positive change. 
Our global community of change-makers sees giving back as 
not only vital for our communities and for living Our Credo, 
but key in advancing our social impact to profoundly change 
the trajectory of health for humanity. We provide a range of 
opportunities for employees to help our community-based partners address critical capacity-building needs. These include 
programs for employees to take paid time as secondees in non-
governmental partner organizations, as volunteers in community 
causes through our Volunteer Leave Policy, or as first responders 
through our First Responder Time-Off Policy. See our Position 
on Community Impact.
Our activities in 2019 for engaging Talent for Good include:
• Secondment Program: The Johnson & Johnson Secondment 
Program, now in its seventh year, offers employees 
the opportunity to engage with several NGO partner 
organizations across 25 countries in the Europe, Middle East 
and Africa (EMEA) region, serving in assignments lasting up 
to six months. In 2019, the secondment program expanded to 
include participants from outside the EMEA region. 
• Lion Secondments: A new program, Lion Secondments, 
launched in 2019 to allow senior leaders to take on part-time 
(four to six months) strategic and advisory assignments with 
NGO partner organizations, enabling them to participate in 
a meaningful way that can be accommodated within their 
schedule. We piloted two Lion Secondments in 2019 and plan 
to maintain this as an option in 2020.
Jose Gonzalez-Roman, Human Resources Leader at Janssen in  
Gurabo, Puerto Rico. 2017 Health for Humanity Report 60
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 60
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
• Global Pro Bono continues to expand every year as our 
participants become ambassadors in spreading the word 
about the program and their experiences. We started our pilot 
program in 2017 and have now grown to a cumulative total of 
68 participants. In 2019, the program expanded to Argentina, 
Guatemala and New Orleans, with 17 participants from seven 
countries who used their skills to support six local NGOs for a 
period of four weeks. 
• Talent for Healthy Communities, our remote pro bono 
program, connects the unique talents and expertise of 
our employees with local community partners to address 
their critical capacity-building needs. In 2019, this program 
expanded its reach to new locations and grew its participation 
by our employees.
• Bridge to Employment: Launched in 1992, this initiative 
partners with nonprofit FHI360 to help young people improve 
school attendance, enhance academic achievements, and gain 
awareness of career possibilities in healthcare. The Bridge 
to Employment program recently launched a pilot extension 
program called Pathways to Success, providing immersive 
experiences through internships at Johnson & Johnson. A first 
cohort of 17 students participated as interns in our operating 
companies in 2019. 
• WiSTEM2D: This program engages Johnson & Johnson 
employees globally to inspire young girls and women to enter 
STEM2D fields. In 2019, the program reached girls through our 
volunteers and partners, far exceeding its “a million girls by 
2020” target. In 2019, Johnson & Johnson volunteers directly 
supported programs reaching 577,000 girls.Engaging employees for the environment: Our environmental 
sustainability employee engagement program, We Sustain, 
mobilizes passionate employees to improve the environmental 
health of the places where we live, work and sell our products. 
In 2019, a total of 41 We Sustain teams across the globe engaged 
their colleagues to protect the environment and human health 
through education, idea sharing and community volunteerism.
In 2019, we again held the We Sustain Ideas Challenge 
where Johnson & Johnson employees submitted, voted and 
ranked ideas—moving 19 ideas from a pool of more than 500 
submissions forward to the final prioritization phase.  
Johnson & Johnson experts then chose the five finalists of our 
Pause on Plastic challenge. Winning ideas are each awarded 
$10,000 to use for feasibility testing within the appropriate 
business segment(s) or product line.68  employees across the globe spent 
17,018 volunteer hours participating in Pro 
Bono, Secondment, and Talent for Healthy 
Communities programs to support 22 NGOs. 
323  employees across the globe spent 
7,154 volunteer hours to support Bridge to 
Employment, reaching 887 students.
1,947  employees across the globe spent 
6,961 volunteer hours to support WiSTEM2D.2017 Health for Humanity Report 61
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 61
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Advancing Diversity & Inclusion
GRI 405, 405-1
Johnson & Johnson and all its operating companies are 
committed to workplace diversity and to cultivating, fostering 
and advancing a culture of inclusion. We know that bringing 
our diverse backgrounds, cultures, and perspectives together 
drives innovation to solve today’s complex health problems. 
Enabling everyone within Johnson & Johnson to perform at their 
best while being themselves is fundamental to our continued 
success. 
Our Credo outlines everyone’s responsibility to provide an 
inclusive work environment and to respect each other’s diversity 
and dignity. The Company’s diversity and inclusion vision is: Be 
yourself, change the world. At Johnson & Johnson all employees 
are encouraged to draw on their unique experiences and 
backgrounds so that together we can spark solutions that create 
a better, healthier world. Our global diversity and inclusion 
strategy accelerates the Company’s efforts to advance a culture 
of inclusion and innovation; build a diverse workforce for the 
future; and enhance business performance and reputation. For 
further details, see our Diversity and Inclusion Policy.
In 2019 we launched our inaugural You Belong: Diversity & 
Inclusion Impact Review, which  examines how diversity and 
inclusion have been key drivers of innovation and impactful 
business outcomes since our founding over 130 years ago. The 
Review also shares compelling stories about how  
Johnson & Johnson employees are making diversity and 
inclusion how we work every day to better serve our patients, 
consumers and customers around the world. MenWomenGlobal Workforce by Gender
47. 8 %‡52.2%
21,611  employees engaged in Employee 
Resource Groups (ERGs)
255  U.S. ERG Chapters
176  non-U.S. ERG Chapters“ Diversity and inclusion are critical to our business and 
integrated into everything we do. Empowering people to be 
themselves helps us to drive innovation, inform decision-
making, and deliver business results.”
Wanda Bryant Hope, Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officer, 
Johnson & Johnson
North America
EMEA
Asia Pacific
Latin America
42,582‡20,182‡Global Workforce by Region
46,742‡
28,195‡
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.2017 Health for Humanity Report 62
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 62
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
 2019 2018 2017
Full-time employees
Women 46.7%‡46.0% 45.3%
Men 53.3% 54.0% 54.7%
Part-time employees
Women 82.6%‡83.6% 84.8%
Men 1 7.4 % 16.4% 15.2%   2019 2018 2017
Asia Pacific
Women 46.0%‡45.6% 43.8% 
Men 54.0% 54.4% 56.2%
Europe, Middle East & Africa
Women 49.7%‡48.5% 48.2%
Men 50.3% 51.5% 51.8%
Latin America
Women 50.2%‡49.4% 48.6%
Men 49.8% 50.7% 51.5%
North America
Women 46.1%‡45.6% 45.5%
Men 53.9% 54.4% 54.5%Gender Diversity by Region Gender Diversity by Employment Type Gender Diversity by Job Category
   2019 2018 2017
Vice Presidents
     Women 34.2%‡35.0% 33.1%
     Men 65.8% 65.0% 66.9%
Managers and Directors
     Women 46.2%‡45.6% 44.7%
     Men 53.8% 54.4% 55.3%
Professionals
     Women 49.5%‡48.5% 47.2%
     Men 50.5% 51.5% 52.8%
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.2017 Health for Humanity Report 63
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 63
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
   2019 2018 2017
Vice Presidents
     Under 30 0%‡0% 0%
     30-50 46.3%‡46.6% 45.6%
     50+ 53.7%‡53.4% 54.4%
Managers and Directors
     Under 30 1.3%‡1.4% 1.3%
     30-50 73.2%‡73.9% 74.3%
     50+ 25.6%‡24.7% 24.4%
Professionals
     Under 30 21.4%‡21.4% 20.8%
     30-50 61.7%‡61.7% 62.3%
     50+ 16.9%‡17.0% 17.0%   2019 2018 2017
Vice Presidents
     White 75.4% 74.9% 76.0%
     Asian 10.4% 10.4%Not 
reported
     Black/African American 6.7% 6.6%Not 
reported
     Hispanic/Latino 6.9% 7.7%Not 
reported
     Other 0.6% 0.4%Not 
reported
Managers and Directors
     White 70.2% 70.7% 71.5%
     Asian 16.6%‡16.5% 28.5%
     Black/African American 5.0%‡4.9%Not 
reported
     Hispanic/Latino 7.0%‡6.9%Not 
reported
     Other 1.2%‡1.1%Not 
reported   2019 2018 2017
Professionals
     White 68.0% 68.4% 68.8%
     Asian 12.0%‡12.0%Not 
reported
     Black/African American 7.6 %‡7.3%Not 
reported
     Hispanic/Latino 10.4%‡10.7%Not 
reported
     Other 2.0%‡1.7%Not 
reportedAge Diversity by Job Category Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S. by Job Category
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.2017 Health for Humanity Report 64
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 64
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
   2019 2018 2017
Total number of new employee hires 21,948‡ Not 
reportedNot 
reported
New Employee Hires  by Gender
     Women 51.4%‡51.6% 51.3%
     Men 48.6% 48.4% 48.7%
New Employee Hires  by Age
     Under 30 52.7%‡47.1% 44.7%
     30-50 42.8%‡48.0% 47.6%
     50+ 4.5%‡4.9% 7.7%
New Employee Hires by Region
     Asia Pacific 28.9%‡30.1% 24.2%
     Europe, Middle East & Africa 27.0%‡27.4% 24.8%
     Latin America 16.5%‡16.9% 17.9%
     North  America 27 .6%‡25.7% 33.1%New Employee Hires
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.   2019 2018 2017
Women in management 
positions45.8%‡45.3%Not 
reported
Women in executive positions 14.3%‡14.3%Not 
reported
   2019 2018 2017
Women 28.6%‡27.0% 20.0%
Ethnic/Racial Diversity 21.4%‡27.0% 30.0%Gender Diversity in Executive and Management Positions*
Diversity in the Board Composition* Executives defined as employees reporting directly to the Chairman & 
CEO; management position defined as paygrade 30 and above.2017 Health for Humanity Report 65
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 65
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Providing Safe & Healthy Workplaces
GRI 403, 403-2
Employee safety is a core value, inseparable from our mission 
of improving human health. With the right awareness, focus, 
practices and tools, we ensure that all our employees around 
the world, as well as temporary contractors and visitors to our 
sites, can work safely at all times. We foster a culture of safety, 
whether in manufacturing, in a laboratory, in an office, or in a 
vehicle. Our approach extends beyond staying safe at work—
we offer and encourage safe practice beyond the workplace, 
striving to inspire a safe mindset all day, every day, and 
contributing to safer families and a safer society.
 Activities in 2019 to advance occupational safety include:
Adding production capacity safely in Ireland: Our Janssen 
Supply Chain site in Ireland increased production capacity 
by adding a 206,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art biologics 
manufacturing facility, which opened in October 2019. The 
construction was completed in May 2020, following over 3.3 
million hours of labor without a lost workday case (LWDC) as of 
the creation of this Report.
Major construction project completed safely in China: In August 
2019, employees moved into the new Ethicon Suzhou office 
building, the result of 1.6 million accident-free safe work hours. 
This milestone marks the fulfillment of the project commitment to 
deliver safe construction and “help workers return home safely.”
Twenty-five years of Safe Fleet: With over 34,000  
drivers worldwide, the Johnson & Johnson community 
celebrated 25 years of our world-class Safe Fleet program.  
Johnson & Johnson created Safe Fleet to provide our fleet 
drivers with the knowledge, skills, and reinforcement to 
reduce their risk of being involved in a vehicle crash. Since 
the introduction of the program, road safety has significantly 
improved and crashes have reduced—including in 2019, when 
we recorded our lowest number of crashes in the Company’s 
history and the lowest-ever number of injuries per million miles.Key safety training activities in 2019 include:
Safety training: We maintained a full suite of safety training, 
involving all employees around the globe and delivered via 
various training methods such as webinars, e-learning, group 
projects, and face-to-face sessions. We also updated our Habits 
for Safety Success guidance and communicated these across the 
organization.
Safety Month: During our second annual Safety Month in 
March we connected workplace safety to our Company’s overall 
commitment to “SAFE makes anything possible.” We focused on  
generating meaningful dialogue and hearing employee stories 
about what it means to be and feel safe at work, at home, and in 
the community. Our focus was on the personal role each of us 
plays—choosing to make safe decisions in all the moments that 
matter. #SafetyMonth2019 had the most engagement for the year 
on our internal global social media platform, with a majority of our 
locations worldwide holding on-site safety month activations. 24%  reduction in our 2019 global Total 
Recordable Injury rate compared to 2018. 
5.54  crashes per million miles (CPMM)—the 
rate continued decreasing in 2019. 
        Snapshot
Johnson & Johnson encourages the reporting of 
Good Saves as a means of engaging our workforce 
in proactively identifying near misses, unsafe 
conditions, and unsafe behaviors that could have 
resulted in an injury, illness, environmental impact, 
or property damage. Every Good Save is reviewed 
and risk-ranked to determine appropriate follow-
up actions. Every employee and contractor with 
access to the Johnson & Johnson intranet has the 
ability to submit a Good Save.Safety Training Audience Sample Topics
Enterprise level Machine safety, IOSS, Permit-to-Work, Warehouse Safety, and Behind the Wheel 
fleet safety training
Regional and campus level, including contractors,  
field sales and service groupsTailored to address issues relevant to the specific regional and campus level needs, 
as well as for capability building, complying with national and local regulations, and 
maintaining and improving EH&S practices
Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) professionals Leadership, communications, and other management skills2017 Health for Humanity Report 66
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 66
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
New training approach in Germany: Our team at  
Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices in Germany, in an effort to 
continuously improve safety training, embarked on a program 
to develop and implement innovations that would make safety 
training interactive and fun. Together with the local training 
organization, the team developed a new training concept called 
“Crack the Safe – Learning Must Be Fun.” Using interactive tools 
and puzzles in the concept of an escape room, the program 
incorporated all elements of safety training, where the puzzles 
could only be solved if the learning target was met. The training 
was delivered to hundreds of employees who provided highly 
positive feedback. 
 
       Highlight
In 2019, we introduced a Capability Self-
Assessment Tool for Environmental Health & Safety 
(EH&S) professionals in operational positions. 
This tool helps EH&S professionals self-audit and 
define learning needs to support their professional 
development and our EH&S goals.       Highlight
We encourage third-party certification to the 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment 
Series management system, OHSAS 18001, or its 
replacement, International Standards Organization 
management system, ISO 45001. In 2019, 24% of 
our manufacturing and R&D sites were certified to 
OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001.
Each year during Safety Month, employees around the world commit to 
safety all year long. At our Fuji, Japan facility in 2019, employees created 
a "commitment wall" to share how safe practices make anything possible.2017 Health for Humanity Report 67
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 67
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
2019 2018 2017
Lost Workday Case rate** 0.07‡0.08 0.08
Total Recordable Injury rate 0.31‡0.41 0.36
Serious Injury and Illness Case Rate 0.04‡0.05 0.05
Number of fatalities 0‡2 0
Crashes Per Million Miles (CPMM) rate*** 5.54 5.81 5.94
Injuries Per Million Miles (IPMM) rate*** 0.06 0.07 0.072019 2018 2017
Lost Workday Case rate**
    Asia Pacific 0.06‡0.05 0.04
    Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.05‡0.05 0.04
    Latin America 0.06‡0.11 0.03
    North America 0.08‡0.10 0.14
Total Recordable Injury Rate
    Asia Pacific 0.12‡0.17 0.12
    Europe, Middle East &  
    Africa0.27‡0.29 0.26
    Latin America 0.25‡0.43 0.31
    North America 0.42‡0.57 0.56
Serious Injury and Illness Case rate
    Asia Pacific 0.04‡0.01 0.03
    Europe, Middle East &  
    Africa0.03‡0.02 0.02
    Latin America 0.02‡0.01 0.03
    North America 0.06‡0.09 0.10* LWDC rate, TRIR, SIIC rate, and fatalities are calculated for Johnson & Johnson employees and contingent workers.15
** “Lost days” are calendar days counted beginning the day after an incident has taken place.
*** CPMM and IPMM rates are based on Safe Fleet data. Rate calculation methodology uses both actual and estimated data on 
miles driven. We collect Safe Fleet data on employees who drive company-owned or -leased, and personally owned vehicles for 
Company business. Employees in the latter category are those who: 1) drive for Company business as a “regular part “of their job, 
and 2) receive a car allowance to purchase their own vehicle, and/or are reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance, 
insurance and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep.
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.Employee Safety,* Global Employee Safety by RegionOur Performance2017 Health for Humanity Report 68
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 68
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Healthiest workforce 
At Johnson & Johnson, we aspire to have the healthiest 
workforce in the world. Over the years, we have continuously 
expanded health and wellbeing programs throughout the 
Company and across the globe, incorporating new thinking 
and technologies to keep our offerings best in class and 
help employees make the healthy choice the easy choice. 
The programs and practices we advance cover three core 
dimensions: Healthy Eating, Healthy Movement and Healthy 
Mind.
We maintain 118 on-site healthcare clinics in 35 countries across 
all regions of our business. We are continuously improving 
and expanding these facilities to provide the best care for our 
employees.
Activities in 2019 to improve our healthiest workforce 
performance include:
HealthForce 2020: We continued to make great progress 
toward our goal to become the healthiest workforce under our 
HealthForce 2020 initiative, which engages employees and 
business leaders across the Enterprise globally. We enhanced 
our workplaces with offerings like free fruit, healthier food 
options, healthy beverages, opportunities to move more, and 
convenient resources to create an engaged, energized and high-
performing culture.
HealthForce 2020 implementation at Janssen Benelux: Our 
teams at Janssen Benelux went the extra mile to help their 
workforce become healthier with a holistic program of healthy 
meetings including healthy food, energy breaks, standing 
instead of sitting, recognition moments and mindfulness 
sessions. They also instated a program of fresh air or games at 
lunch—such as table tennis sessions and walking lunches—for 
employees to re-energize and return to the desk refreshed for 
the afternoon.
Introduced new digital health tool: In late 2019, as part of our 
goal to become the healthiest workforce, we introduced a new 
and improved digital health tool for employees to support their 
overall health and wellbeing. This platform replaced our previous 
HEALTHY & ME tool, providing a new and improved way to help 
employees grow on their health journey. We continued using 
HEALTHY & ME tool throughout 2019. The new global app features a modern and intuitive layout with personalized content based 
on employees’ health goals. Opportunities to earn points include 
activity, food, and sleep tracking, THE JOHNSON & JOHNSON 
OFFICIAL 7 MINUTE WORKOUT, self-declarations, challenges and 
pre-recorded health webinars. These points can be redeemed for 
rewards, or may be donated toward several different charities.
Global activity challenge: In 2019, we engaged employees 
across all regions in our 21-day global activity challenge, which 
resulted in 4.6 billions collectively logged steps and a 39% 
increase in movement for challenge participants.
New Global Exercise Reimbursement Program: In addition 
to our on-site fitness centers, we expanded this program 
to employees in 34 countries, offering them financial 
reimbursement to work out in ways that are convenient for 
individuals, including virtual subscriptions.   
Supporting mental wellbeing: In line with our HealthForce 
2020 program, we maintain programs to raise awareness of 
mental wellbeing in the workplace and around the world. Our 
global Healthy Mind Policy outlines the expected approaches 
and resources required to support mental wellbeing at 
Johnson & Johnson. We are working together with our more 
than 2,300 Mental Health Diplomats, part of our Alliance for 
Diverse Abilities Employee Resource Group. They help reduce 
workplace mental health stigma and create a supportive work 
environment through routine workplace reviews and online 
personal empowerment programs. We offer people leader 
training and webinars to raise mental health awareness. Our 
U.S. medical benefits plan includes coverage for mental health 
programs. We also enhanced our Employee Assistance Program 
to provide a consistent approach to support our employees 
around the world. This program provides additional resources 
for employees and family members, additional training and 
educational tools, and a more well-rounded approach to 
work–life balance, resiliency, and stress management. Aiming 
to support employees through particularly stressful situations 
or concerns, it includes access to confidential short-term 
counseling, 24/7 online tools and resources, and on-site crisis 
support.In 2019, our HEALTHY & ME tool was widely 
available:
~99%  of employees
80  countries 
41 countries where it's available to spouses and 
partners 
16 languages        2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
65,000  
employees completed ENERGY FOR 
PERFORMANCE training.
112,000  
employees engaged in health and wellbeing via the 
use of digital health tools.
120,000 and 113,000  
employees provided with access to 85% 
implemented healthy eating and healthy movement 
cultures respectively.  
       On track                   View scorecard2017 Health for Humanity Report 69
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 69
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Workplace innovation 
We maintain workspaces designed to promote healthy 
lifestyles, employee engagement and collaborative working. 
Our Workplace Innovation Program, established in 2010, 
helps us better design our environments to support workplace 
activity through creating shared and unassigned workspace for 
greater flexibility, enhancing employees’ working experience, 
and inspiring an innovative and engaged work culture. Our 
workplaces incorporate elements that support physical and 
emotional health, such as on-site fitness centers, first-aid 
rooms, outdoor activity areas, nurture and faith rooms, rooms 
for counseling and employee assistance, and child development 
centers. We also adopt green building design principles in 
planning or renovating our workplaces to further enhance the 
health, safety, wellbeing and productivity of our people.
In light of the COVID-19 pandemic impact, we are constantly 
monitoring ongoing events while evaluating and adopting 
balanced and objective Credo-based measures across all of our 
work environments to ensure a safe, healthy and productive 
return to workplace. The flexibility of our workplace programs 
enables an efficient alignment between safety, supply and 
demand while positioning us for an optimized post-pandemic 
solution.Grassroots workplace innovation for safety and convenience: 
Johnson & Johnson campuses are often quite expansive, and 
people move around frequently to and from meetings, as one 
might expect. Our team in Brazil came up with a clever way to 
make this easier and safer, with people often carrying laptops, 
cellphones, notebooks, water bottles and other items as they 
move around the campus. A series of stands with carry bags for 
all personal items are therefore now available for everyone to 
use. Anyone can just grab a bag, use it as required, and return 
it to a stand once finished, for others to use—a thoughtful, 
practical and innovative idea to make the workplace a little more 
accommodating. 75  workplace innovation projects completed 
since 2010. 
6 workplace projects implemented, improving 
workplace environments for more than 2,427 
employees in five countries.
12%  increase in employee satisfaction as a 
result of workplace innovation projects. 
54  Johnson & Johnson buildings are LEED-
certified.
An innovative initiative to encourage safety by using reusable tote 
bags to carry items between meetings at our São José dos Campos 
manufacturing site in São Paulo. 2017 Health for Humanity Report 70
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 70
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Product Quality, Safety & Reliability
GRI 416-2, J&J19-9
As the largest healthcare company in the world, reaching 
billions of patients, consumers and customers each day with 
our medicines, consumer healthcare products and medical 
devices, Johnson & Johnson plays a major role in advancing 
human health and improving patient outcomes through the 
development, manufacturing and distribution of high-quality 
products. We uphold product quality, safety and reliability in line 
with Our Credo values and in compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations in countries where we operate.
Many of our products play a very significant role in improving 
people’s lives—products that patients, consumers and doctors 
rely on every day. We are therefore highly conscious of the 
need for continuity of supply to those who use our products to 
achieve or maintain good health and wellbeing.  
“From R&D to commercial to supply chain, everyone 
at Johnson & Johnson is dedicated to unsurpassed 
quality in our day-to-day roles. Proactive quality is a 
central part of our supply chain strategy. Each day 
we advance our capabilities, transforming our quality 
processes to connect with our self-learning and hyper-
efficient production systems. For example, more and 
more, we are using real-time data to ensure quality is 
seamlessly built into our manufacturing lines.”
Kathy Wengel, Executive Vice President, Chief Global Supply 
Chain Officer, Johnson & Johnson
Employees at our Latina, Italy, manufacturing facility participating in our annual Quality Month activities.2017 Health for Humanity Report 71
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 71
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Making Quality a Priority
SASB: HC-BP-250a.3; HC-BP-250a.5; HC-MS-250a.1; HC-MS-250a.4
Our commitment to quality, safety and reliability is the 
foundation for everything we do. We believe our patients and 
consumers deserve consistent, reliable and high quality every 
time they use or experience a Johnson & Johnson product. 
We partner with health authorities, government agencies 
and industry and advocacy groups to raise the bar on quality 
across the healthcare industry. See our Position on Quality and 
Compliance which describes our approach to quality policies 
and standards, risk management, compliance monitoring  
and more.
One measure of our performance is our product recall rate. 
Our recall rate remains low because of the rigor of our Quality 
Standards. Our continuous improvement efforts across all 
our businesses help to ensure a reliable supply of high-quality 
products. Initiating a field action, such as removing a product 
from the marketplace when an issue has been identified, is the 
right thing to do for our patients and consumers. As required 
by the Quality Standards, each operating company has a formal 
Quality Review Board (QRB), which convenes when necessary 
to evaluate concerns with the quality or safety of a product in 
the market. The QRBs consist of leaders from Quality, Medical 
Affairs, Medical Safety and Regulatory Affairs. The QRBs decide, 
independent of commercial considerations, whether actions 
need to be taken to correct or recall a product from the market. 
Patient and consumer safety supersede any other factor in this 
decision-making.
Initiatives to advance quality in 2019 include: 
Updating quality policies: The Johnson & Johnson Quality 
Policy Standards across our Family of Companies cover the 
lifecycle of our products from R&D to the consumer and 
patient experience. These Policy Standards provide a common 
foundation of quality expectations and help to ensure a 
reliable supply of high-quality products across all our business 
segments. In 2019, to position Johnson & Johnson to leverage 
emerging technologies and better serve our customers, we 
undertook a program to improve clarity, map requirements to 
applicable regulatory requirements and incorporate Health 
Authority expectations while enabling flexibility for our diverse 156  independent audits completed at our 
internal sites 
264  independent audits completed at our 
external manufacturing sites
        Snapshot
In support of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency’s 
National Drug Take Back Day we encouraged our 
U.S. employees to take an active part and dispose 
of their non-controlled substance medicines at 
a list of locations we provided. Members of our 
Pharmacists Network Employee Resource Group 
held a series of events ahead of National Drug 
Take Back Day to highlight the importance of 
medication safety and remind us that safety is a 
shared responsibility.business segments. This restructuring of our Policy Standards 
resulted in the addition of six new Quality Policies that better 
reflect the lifecycle of our products.
Supporting a pilot to improve quality in software-based 
medical devices: We continue to engage with the U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) in the Digital Health Software 
Precertification (Pre-Cert) Program. In the current pilot 
phase, we are testing a working model and providing guidance. 
The purpose of the pre-certification program is to develop a 
regulatory framework for oversight of software-based medical 
devices. In the pilot stage, the focus is on how a company 
reliably engages in high-quality software design, testing and 
ongoing maintenance of its software-based medical devices. 
In 2019, as one of nine selected participants in this pilot, we 
conducted testing of the Pre-Cert working model v.1.0 published 
by the FDA early in 2019. In addition to testing the integrated 
components, we provided guidance on other program 
considerations in the certification process for manufacturers 
who use third-party software developers. In 2020, we are 
planning end-to-end testing of the Pre-Cert model, including 
its relationship to real-world performance analytics. Ultimately, 
when completed, the Pre-Cert process will improve speed to 
market of important medical devices while supporting high 
quality throughout the lifecycle of medical device products.
Hosting the 2019 Kilmer Conference: In June 2019,  
Johnson & Johnson hosted the 10th Kilmer Conference in 
Dublin, Ireland, convening over 350 innovative leaders in 
the field of microbiological quality and sterility assurance. 
The Kilmer Conference is a premier global forum focused on 
sterility assurance and sterilization for invited professionals 
from industry, academia, government agencies and healthcare 
delivery organizations. The 2019 conference demonstrated the 
community’s ability to think differently to advance the science 
of microbiological quality and sterility assurance through 
collaborative innovation under the theme “Passion for Patients, 
Driving Collaborative Innovation.” Beyond the conference, we 
continue our engagement through the Kilmer Collaboration 
Teams that support innovation to address specific challenges 
and deliver better outcomes for customers and patients. The 
Kilmer Fund provides grants to support innovative research 
and scholarships for individuals who pursue academic studies 
and potential career paths relating to microbiology quality and 
sterility assurance.Annual Quality Month: Held every October, in 2019, under the 
theme of “Quality Doesn’t Quit!,” our global sites took the time 
to reflect, celebrate, and recommit to Our Credo responsibility 
that “everything we do must be of high quality” through 
workshops, trainings and interactive educational sessions.
Maintaining quality throughout our supply base: We strive 
to achieve world-class supplier reliability as part of our 
commitment to product quality. We collaborate proactively with 
our suppliers to develop programs, such as those for proactive 
risk identification and mitigation, to manage, measure and 
improve quality. Our suppliers demonstrate their commitment to 
meeting our quality and reliability standards through using our 
suite of proactive tools, many co-developed with our suppliers, 
such as Technical Assessments, Supplier Quality Excellence 
in Execution tool, Robust Process framework and our Supplier 
Quality Academy.2017 Health for Humanity Report 72
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 72
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Feedback received from our suppliers in 2019 includes:
• Jabil Healthcare: “For years, Jabil Healthcare and  
Johnson & Johnson have enjoyed an incredibly productive 
and sustaining partnership; we are now moving on into our 
second decade. Throughout this period, we have worked 
diligently together to drive quality management while 
improving our processes. Johnson & Johnson introduced 
a powerful and effective suite of management tools for 
both Technical Assessment and Supplier Quality Maturity 
Assessment out of our Auburn Hills, Michigan site. 
Deployment of these tools is based on pre-defined criteria to 
evaluate processes and practices at our site operations. The 
results have been excellent, driving efficiencies and value 
across our operations. We are deeply appreciative of the 
robust nature of our collaboration and are eager to continue 
moving forward with Johnson & Johnson.” Z. Ali Choudary, 
Quality and Regulatory Affairs Manager, Jabil Healthcare 
• Tecomet, Inc.: “The Supplier Quality Excellence in Execution 
Maturity Assessment has been a powerful tool for identifying 
and targeting improvement opportunities between our sites. 
It provides dual benefits—identifying both strengths and 
improvement opportunities between our global locations. 
This subsequently brings our teams together, promoting 
focused sharing and learning between sites. An exceptionally 
effective process.” Steve Hinora, Executive Vice President, 
Quality Assurance/Regulatory Affairs, U.S. Operations, 
Tecomet, Inc. 
• VIANT Medical: “Innovative Source Quality programs rolled 
out by Johnson & Johnson, such as Technical Assessments 
and Maturity Assessments, have aided in developing a true 
partnership with our organizations. These activities provide 
a true open forum for information sharing and provide 
lasting improvements that enhance product quality and 
reduce long-term risk. There is great value to gaining a deep 
understanding of processes through the execution of these 
well-designed tools. The systemic approach is easy to use 
and sets the stage for continual improvement through all 
aspects of the product lifecycle.” Von F. Kramer IV, Vice 
President, Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs, 
VIANT MedicalProduct Quality IndicatorsOur Performance
2019 2018 2017
Number of regulatory inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites by 
worldwide health authorities521‡ 619 557 
Percentage of inspections that resulted in zero observations 73%‡78% 71%
Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites 17‡ 24 63 
Percentage of FDA inspections that resulted in zero observations 76%‡75% 83%
Average number of observations per FDA inspection 0.6‡0.6 0.7
Number of independent audits of Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure 
compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy and Standards156‡179 179
Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites to 
ensure compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy and 
Standards264‡237 Not reported
Number of FDA warning letters issued 1‡0 0
Product recall rate*, by business segment
Pharmaceutical 0.002% Not reported Not reported
Medical Devices 0.041% Not reported Not reported
Consumer Health** 0.091% Not reported Not reported
* Product recall rate is defined as number of lots removed from market per total globally manufactured, based on field action removals where there is a reasonable probability 
that the product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences and in certain cases will cause serious adverse health consequences.
** For Consumer Health, the product recall rate reflects over-the-counter (OTC) products.
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.2017 Health for Humanity Report 73
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 73
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Putting Safety First
GRI 416-1
At Johnson & Johnson, we recognize our fundamental 
responsibility is to provide patients, consumers and healthcare 
providers with products that are as safe as possible. We take 
an evidence- and science-based, ethics- and values-driven 
approach to medical safety, putting patient and consumer 
wellbeing first and foremost in our decision-making and actions, 
with an emphasis on transparency.
The Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO) is a global, 
functionally independent group responsible for leading  
medical safety and championing bioethical principles across 
Johnson & Johnson's Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and 
Consumer Health business segments. Johnson & Johnson’s 
OCMO is constantly reviewing, monitoring and making decisions 
regarding the safety of our products through people-driven 
processes, initiatives and policies that are reinforced by a single 
medical safety standard, to which all our products are held.
See our positions and policies relating to patient safety:
• Position on Patient Safety 
• Position on Clinical Trial Data Transparency 
• Position on the Conduct of Clinical Trials  
• Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and Development 
• Position on Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Research
“To fully leverage the usefulness of big data in 
improving patient outcomes, we need to ensure we are 
harnessing all the best minds. That means engaging 
both women and men to share their perspectives and 
ideas on interpreting and utilizing real-world data 
to drive better, more efficient and targeted medical 
care.”
Joanne Waldstreicher, M.D., Chief Medical Officer,  
Johnson & JohnsonAdvances in patient safety in 2019 include: 
Sharing real-world data: We believe in the collective power 
of real-world observational data to complement clinical trial 
findings, and in sharing our insights to improve health outcomes. 
As part of the Observational Health Data Sciences and 
Informatics (OHDSI) community, created by Johnson & Johnson 
and Columbia University, researchers including scientists 
from Johnson & Johnson’s Epidemiology team published a 
paper in The Lancet that presented an analysis of large-scale 
observational data on hypertension therapy. This analysis, which 
included nearly five million patients across nine observational 
databases in four countries, was significant. It uncovered new 
insights into safety and efficacy differences between classes 
of hypertension medicines with real insights that can advance 
clinical practice. Additionally, the findings presented a new 
paradigm for conducting large-scale observational healthcare 
science while addressing common biases of observational 
research.
Women scientists for safety: It is important to ensure that 
women are included in seeking ways to apply healthcare data 
to better serve the health of women and enhance the safety 
of health treatment for women. In September 2019, OHDSI 
launched its first Women of OHDSI (WoO) leadership group. 
It provided a forum for women to discuss challenges they face 
as women working in science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics (STEM) and propose ideas on how to support 
and inspire women in STEM to become leaders within the 
community and their respective fields.Real-world evidence in China: In September 2019, the  
Johnson & Johnson Epidemiology Asia-Pacific team and 
Medical Device Epidemiology team participated in a Real-World 
Data (RWD) Study Workshop organized by the China National 
Medical Products Administration (NMPA), along with other 
pharmaceutical and medical device companies. The focus of 
the meeting was on the use of RWD and real-world evidence 
(RWE) for regulatory decisions for drugs and medical devices, 
and preceded the NMPA’s publication of guidelines for RWE 
use for regulatory purposes. The workshop brought together 
more than 400 participants, including Johnson & Johnson 
colleagues and regulators from Chinese, Japanese, German and 
U.S. health authorities. OCMO’s participation in the Chinese 
NMPA’s workshop on RWD/RWE as subject matter experts 
helped to frame NMPA regulatory guidelines for using RWE that 
are feasible, informed and consistent with global guidelines, 
though adapted to the Chinese situation, through robust and 
transparent science.
Safety for medical devices: Training operating room teams on 
how to safely and efficiently use new surgical devices is pivotal 
to ensuring safe patient care. Following a four-month pilot study 
of a Medical Device Briefing Tool in six hospitals in Thailand, 
in August 2019, the results were published by the Journal of 
Surgical Research. The results of the study, conducted by 
Ariadne Labs and Johnson & Johnson’s OCMO, showed that 
the Device Briefing Tool was uniformly viewed as useful and 
able to fit within existing workflows. Collaborating with Ariadne 
Labs to develop the Medical Device Briefing Tool and training 
materials has been an important step for Johnson & Johnson in 
empowering surgeons and nurses to increase communication 
and teamwork in the operating room to deliver better, safer 
patient outcomes.
Improving safety surveillance: We are continuously seeking 
new ways to improve safety signal detection for real-time 
surveillance. In 2019, we rolled out an important upgrade to our 
proprietary Signal Management for Adverse Events in Real Time 
(SMART) system, which has been a valuable tool to monitor 
product safety signals with efficiency, sensitivity, and specificity. 
The upgrade, SMART 6, includes new algorithms to improve 
focus on key safety alerts. It helps identify new safety risks 
with enhanced predictive capabilities that increase surveillance 
coverage and include organized data collection systems, such 2017 Health for Humanity Report 74
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 74
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
as registries and patient surveys. SMART 6 also decreases false 
positive safety alerts, surfacing alerts with solid contextual and 
supportive evidence. With SMART 6, we can execute improved 
and more efficient safety surveillance of all Johnson & Johnson 
pharmaceutical and consumer medicinal products.
Consumer Health products: ingredient safety  
The safety of our consumers is and always has been our priority. 
Our safety assurance process exceeds industry and regulatory 
standards for baby and skin health personal care products. We 
continuously evaluate ingredients used in our products and 
modify formulations, where relevant, in response to consumer 
preferences, advances in science and our own scientific 
research. See our Position on Consumer Safety and Care.
Talc safety: During the past year, cases alleging that 
JOHNSON’s Baby Powder can cause adverse health effects have 
continued. However, to date each verdict against  
Johnson & Johnson that has been through the appellate process 
has been overturned. We sympathize deeply with cancer 
patients and their families and appreciate that they are seeking 
answers. However, the science and the facts show that their 
illnesses were not caused by their use of our talcum-based 
products. Our website www.factsabouttalc.com includes 
independent studies from leading universities, research from 
medical journals and third-party opinions confirming that our 
talc is safe. The facts are that JOHNSON’s Baby Powder is safe, 
does not contain asbestos, and does not cause cancer.
Combating Counterfeiting &  
Illicit Trade
GRI J&J19-4       
SASB: HC-BP-260a.1; HC-MS-430a.2
In today’s global economy, where patients and consumers may 
potentially be exposed to counterfeit products in stores, online, 
or even in healthcare settings, we take tangible steps to help 
ensure that they receive only genuine products of the  
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. See our Position on 
Counterfeit Healthcare Products.Our advanced capabilities in data analytics include leveraging 
innovative digital technologies to enhance supply chain integrity, 
safeguard our markets (through early detection of the presence 
of illicit trade), and more effectively expose the sources, networks 
and patterns of illicit trade throughout our global markets and 
channels. Our robust process for alerting customers and business 
partners of confirmed instances of counterfeiting, illegal product 
diversion or product tampering activities is governed by standard 
operating procedures and regulatory requirements. We maintain 
traceability within the distribution chain through an enterprise-
wide Unique Device Identification (UDI) program to comply with 
global regulations, and satisfy customer requests related to data 
submissions, barcodes, and direct marking. Our current efforts 
include achieving compliance for published UDI regulations in 
several countries.
Advances in combating illicit trade in 2019, alongside all 
current measures and protocols in place to protect patients and 
consumers from counterfeit products, include: 
• Preventing cross-border counterfeits: We established 
a global customs program to improve the detection and 
disruption of cross-border flows of illicit Johnson & Johnson 
products, with a focus on risk-prioritized trademarks. We 
led education and training sessions for customs officials 
to familiarize them with protocols for rapid response to 
notifications of suspect product.
• Product security investigations and enforcement (PSI&E): 
Through collaboration across several functions, we 
implemented a standardized global program for PSI&E. This 
will significantly improve our ability to action against any 
confirmed illicit trade incidents in a coordinated and effective 
manner to disrupt illicit trade and remove illicit product from 
the marketplace.
• Addressing illicit trade online: We expanded the internet 
monitoring program across our Pharmaceutical, Medical 
Devices and Consumer Health business segments, enabling 
us to monitor more than 150 brands that are at risk for 
infringing e-commerce listings, along with enhancing our 
capability for online-to-offline investigations of illicit trade. In 
conjunction with the Pharmaceutical Security Institute and 
other major pharmaceutical companies, we also continued 
to build on our extensive efforts to stop illegal online 
pharmacies. • Monitoring markets: We expanded our offline market 
monitoring program for prioritized at-risk brands across all 
Company sectors and doubled the number of market surveys 
conducted. These activities helped deliver results that 
included several investigations and enforcement actions.
• Training our employees: We introduced a brand protection 
and combating counterfeiting module into our Code 
of Business Conduct training, which is mandatory for 
all employees. This fulfilled a major goal to raise the 
understanding and awareness of illicit trade issues among 
our employees, so they can be proactive about protecting our 
patients and consumers.
 
2019
Number of people (stakeholders) trained in 
brand protection best practices523
Number of external trade groups, alliances, 
organizations and agencies in which  
Johnson & Johnson is engaged in leadership 
positions or industry working groups9Our Performance2017 Health for Humanity Report 75
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 75
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Ethics & Transparency
Johnson & Johnson has an aligned and consistent global ethical 
framework along with clear and comprehensive resources that 
guide all employees. Johnson & Johnson operating companies 
conduct a wide range of activities in the healthcare marketplace, 
including R&D, manufacturing, medical education, product and 
procedure training, marketing and selling. These interactions 
involve many different healthcare stakeholders as well as 
employees, suppliers, business partners and officials from 
governments and health authorities around the world. A variety 
of legal and ethical standards, some of which are unique to the 
healthcare industry, apply to these activities. We take every 
reasonable measure to ensure that we all operate in accordance 
with ethics and compliance laws and standards, and with the 
transparency expected by our stakeholders.
Commitment to Ethics & Compliance
GRI 102-17 , 102-25, 205, 205-1, 205-2, 206, 406-1, 419
Our responsibilities to patients, consumers, healthcare 
professionals, employees, communities and shareholders are 
enshrined in Our Credo. This is the foundation of our values that 
has guided our business for more than 75 years. At  
Johnson & Johnson, we are committed to maintaining the 
highest level of integrity and ethical culture. Our comprehensive 
policies, procedures and compliance training help our 
employees and contingent workers navigate the applicable 
laws, regulations and industry codes, as well as our own ethical 
standards. See our Position on Ethics and Compliance.
Our Code of Business Conduct (CBC) and Health Care 
Compliance (HCC) policies specifically set forth our Company’s 
values, which apply to all employees and contingent workers 
worldwide. They list comprehensive ethical standards for 
decisions and actions in every market where we operate. 
The CBC and HCC policies are regularly communicated, and 
mandatory training for HCC is conducted each year with CBC 
training every other year. The Johnson & Johnson Credo 
Hotline, an integral component of our strong compliance culture, offers a secure channel for all employees, contingent 
workers, customers, third-party agencies and other partners 
to anonymously report—where legally permitted—suspected 
violations. We issue an annual reminder regarding the obligation 
to raise concerns related to ethics and compliance via the Credo 
Hotline and other channels. 
In 2019, we maintained our robust programs to communicate, 
train and enforce our business conduct standards. Key 
additional activities in 2019 include:
Revision of the CBC: In 2019, we updated our CBC to keep pace 
with the evolving business environment, changes in regulatory 
requirements, and expectations of stakeholders, and be able to 
offer needed guidance for employees around the world. During 
an interactive, collaborative process over nine months, involving 
leaders of different businesses functions, we implemented 
several changes, including:
• Enhancing the section on anti-corruption and anti-bribery; 
• Adding a section on our respect for human rights; 
• Improving guidance around political activity;
• Enhancing guidance on fair treatment of employees, 
including adding reasonable accommodation requirements 
for individuals with disabilities and/or with needs relating to 
religious observances; and 
• Enhancing the section on conflicts of interest to reflect 
not only personal conflicts of interest, but those of an 
organizational nature as well.  
These changes were approved by our Executive Committee, 
reviewed by our Board of Directors’ Regulatory Compliance 
Committee and incorporated in our CBC training for all 
employees. 97%  of assigned employees and 
91%  of assigned contingent workers15 
completed the CBC training.
90,000  employees and 
95%  of sales and marketing employees 
completed the Health Care Compliance training.
97%  of employees believe they are held 
accountable for adhering to the highest quality 
and compliance standards.
100%  of senior leaders certified the 
compliance of their organizations with the Code 
of Business Conduct.*
* Certifiers include senior leaders at VP2 level and above, selected 
Managing Directors and General Managers based on country or 
business segment risk profile, and executives of recently acquired 
companies.2017 Health for Humanity Report 76
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 76
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
2019 2018 2017
Human Resources-related 60% 58% 59%
Financial-related 13% 11% 10% 
General information questions 11% 13% 12%
Other (privacy, general security, EH&S, etc.) 8% 10% 11%
Healthcare compliance-related 6% 6% 6%
Quality assurance-related 2% 2% 2%
2019 2018 2017
Number of compliance-related allegations investigated through Triage Committee 738 707 693
Percentage of Compliance allegations, by category
Financial 50% 40% 34% 
Healthcare Compliance 40% 46% 54%
Other (legal, quality, antitrust, product registration, privacy) 10% 14% 12%
Number of warning letters or untitled letters issued by OPDP or APLB in the U.S.* 0Not 
reportedNot 
reportedCommunicating our Escalation Procedure: At our Company, 
we build our culture of integrity and accountability by requiring 
employees to report actual or potential violations of our 
policies or the law, as well as risks that could jeopardize our 
reputation. The Escalation Procedure specifies responsibilities 
for all employees relating to what should be reported, the 
timeframe, and how. It includes reporting requirements and 
guidance for the full range of actual or potential ethical conduct 
or compliance violations such as those related to travel and 
expenses; accuracy of books and records; theft or fraud in 
any form; non-compliance with our government contracts or 
pricing obligations; misconduct of any kind; conflict of interest 
or data privacy breaches and more. In 2019, a comprehensive 
toolkit with training materials, real-world case scenarios and 
video resources was published to all managers to support the 
enterprise-wide communication of this important procedure.
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery: Johnson & Johnson takes a 
strong stance against bribery consistent with the anti-bribery 
laws that exist in many countries around the world. We strictly 
prohibit any illegal offers that may inappropriately influence 
patients or customers. Our products are purchased and sold 
based on quality and price. In our policies, we comprehensively 
address anti-corruption and anti-bribery, following the U.S. 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and other 
applicable local anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and 
regulations. In 2019, we updated our Position on  
Anti-Corruption.Inquiries and Complaints Brought through the Credo Hotline by Category
Compliance-related Investigations 
* OPDP: Office of Prescription Drug Promotion and APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch of the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.2017 Health for Humanity Report 77
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 77
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Upholding Transparency
GRI 417 , J&J19-6
At Johnson & Johnson, we value transparency as a key 
component of trust building with all those engaged in any way 
with our business. We strive to hold ourselves accountable 
by providing information about how we operate across our 
operating companies and markets. We recognize and comply 
with the multiple reporting requirements that regulatory bodies 
governing our three business segments define and, in addition, 
we publish a wide range of other regulatory and voluntary 
disclosures. See our Position on Transparency.
Pricing transparency in the United States: We publish our 
annual Janssen U.S. Transparency Report that includes how we 
invest our resources, price our medicines, and help people who 
need Janssen medicines gain access to them. See the latest 
Report here.
Improving clinical data transparency: Johnson & Johnson was 
a key contributor to documents on clinical data transparency 
and patient privacy that were first developed and shared 
through TransCelerate Biopharma, a nonprofit that encourages 
collaboration across the biopharmaceutical community to 
streamline and accelerate the R&D of innovative new therapies. 
Now, this evolving guidance is accessible to an even broader 
global community. In June 2019, a TransCelerate working group 
transferred two “living documents” to PHUSE, a nonprofit, 
volunteer-supported community of pharmaceutical industry 
colleagues. PHUSE provides collaboration tools and resources 
to encourage worldwide interaction. Its members include data 
managers, biostatisticians, statistical programs and eClinical 
IT professionals. Janssen colleagues are active in PHUSE, and 
played a leading role in organizing PHUSE’s 2019 conference in 
the United States.
Responding to concerns about opioids: Johnson & Johnson 
is committed to ensuring its medicines are used correctly, 
including by providing important information about their risks 
and benefits on every product label. Responsibly used, opioid-
based pain medications play a critical role in helping doctors 
and patients manage the debilitating effects of serious pain, 
and the Company’s pain medicines were designed to prevent 
and deter abuse with some of the lowest rates of abuse among prescription opioid pain medicines. The Janssen Pharmaceutical 
Companies of Johnson & Johnson no longer develop or promote 
opioid-based pain medicines, and since 2008, the volume of its 
prescription opioids has amounted to less than one percent of 
the total prescriptions written per year for opioid medications in 
the United States.
Bioethics
GRI J&J19-3
Johnson & Johnson is strongly committed to ensuring that our 
employees have both the resources and training to help them 
address difficult and complex bioethical questions that may 
arise during the course of their day-to-day work. To address 
the complex ethical questions arising in the field of biological 
research, science and medicine, our global Johnson & Johnson 
Bioethics Committee (JJBC), sponsored by the Chief Medical 
Officer, serves as an advisory body to our worldwide teams on 
ethical issues. Composed of a diverse group of internal medical 
experts with training and experience in evaluating bioethical 
questions, the JJBC is responsible for advocating adherence 
to bioethical principles, providing an expert forum for teams to 
obtain guidance on bioethical issues, and for championing our 
commitment to ethical decision-making across the Enterprise. 
JJBC is guided by the fundamental principles of bioethics, 
including beneficence, non-maleficence, autonomy and 
justice, and our Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and 
Development.
Our advances in the field of bioethics in 2019 include:
Innovation in pre-approval access to investigational 
medicines: Our Compassionate Use Advisory Committee 
(CompAC) is a novel approach that Johnson & Johnson employs 
globally to provide a fair, ethical evaluation of compassionate 
use requests for specific investigational medicines for patients 
with serious or life-threatening diseases.
In December 2019, CompAC, an initiative we developed in 
collaboration with the New York University School of Medicine, 
was honored to be the winner of the Reagan-Udall Foundation 
2019 Innovation Award. The Reagan-Udall Foundation selected 
CompAC because of the Foundation’s belief that these types of important healthcare decisions benefit from fair and ethical 
evaluation. CompAC is a novel approach that utilizes an external 
group of experts including physicians, ethicists and patient 
representatives to review compassionate use requests. CompAC 
offers a more consistent, transparent and equitable approach to 
navigating the challenges associated with pre-approval access 
while maintaining U.S. Food and Drug Administration oversight.
Responsibly sharing clinical trial data to improve public 
health: Sharing clinical trial data advances the science that 
is the foundation of medicine. By making clinical trial data 
available to other researchers and scientists, we enable them 
to test new hypotheses, answer new questions and potentially 
find new treatments. Most importantly, we honor the study 
participants by giving their data new life for the advancement 
of public health. Since 2014, Johnson & Johnson’s Office of the 
Chief Medical Officer has been working with the Yale University 
Open Data Access Project, also known as the YODA Project, 
to enable a consistent and objective approach for assessing 
external research proposals requesting the use of clinical trial 
data from our Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices or Consumer 
Health business segments. To date, more than 30 articles have 
been published using data shared through the YODA Project 
that would not have otherwise been possible. In this way, 
important research can stand on the shoulders of research that 
has already been conducted and participant data can continue 
to contribute to improving public health.
Animal welfare  
Johnson & Johnson is committed to ensuring the ethical 
treatment of animals used in laboratory settings to advance 
patient safety and wellbeing. Johnson & Johnson operating 
companies have policies and guidelines in place that assure the 
ethical and humane treatment of the animals and promote the 
use of non-animal alternatives whenever feasible. We support 
and participate in efforts to obtain regulatory acceptance of 
alternative testing methods. See our Humane Care and Use of 
Animals Policy.
In 2019, we maintained our ethical approach to the human care 
and use of animals by strictly upholding our animal care and use 
that are intended to meet or exceed all applicable regulations, 
including the “3R” Principles:2017 Health for Humanity Report 78
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 78
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
bargain collectively, if they so choose. The Company and its 
operating companies are required to bargain in good faith with 
these associations.
Minimum notice periods, the management of reorganizations 
and layoffs, and the policies associated with such actions 
vary depending on the location, nature, size and scale of the 
action and applicable law. Local operating leaders endeavor 
to communicate significant plans of operational changes to 
employees and their representatives, where they are present, 
in a timely and practical manner in advance of actions being 
taken. Many of our collective bargaining agreements contain 
negotiated provisions covering severance or separation pay 
and benefits. Where there is no legal minimum notice period, 
Johnson & Johnson operating companies typically provide 30 
days' notice.
Our approach to talent management puts a strong focus on 
diversity and inclusion principles. We promote diversity and 
equal opportunity in recruiting, development and promotion 
as well as all other aspects of employee careers. To read more, 
please see our Diversity & Inclusion Policy. As outlined in our 
Position on Providing a Safe and Harassment-Free Workplace, 
we do not tolerate discrimination, harassment or bullying, and 
provide various training courses on this policy, including within 
our Code of Business Conduct training. 20%  of employees covered by collective 
bargaining agreements• Replacement: using alternative non-animal systems in 
place of live animal utilization whenever possible.
• Reduction: using the minimum number of animals possible 
to achieve maximum information without compromising 
animal welfare. 
• Refinement: continually modifying procedures to limit 
animal discomfort and distress. 
In 2019, we developed a fully functioning non-animal model 
to provide comprehensive training on our Medical Devices 
product portfolio, and developed 3D-printed anatomical models 
and virtual reality-based options for training residents and 
fellows in the use of our medical devices. We also updated our 
Consumer Health Safety & Care Commitment online resource 
with enhanced information on our position regarding cosmetic 
animal testing.
Respect for Human Rights
GRI 102-41, 402, 402-1, 406, 407 , 408, 409, 412, 412-2
Johnson & Johnson is committed to respecting human rights of 
individuals throughout our value chain as evident in our policies 
and positions available on our website:
• Code of Business Conduct
• Position on Human Rights
• Human Trafficking Policy
• Position on Employment and Labor Rights 
• Position on the Conduct of Clinical Trials
• Responsibility Standards for Suppliers
• California Transparency in Supply Chains Act  
and UK Modern Slavery Act Statement
• Position on Human Right to WaterGovernance: The Enterprise Governance Council (EGC), a 
global, cross-functional team of senior leaders representing 
functional groups and three business segments, oversees 
enterprise-wide human rights due diligence work. Quarterly 
EGC meetings provide a forum for updates on human rights 
topics, with an established process for elevating issues to 
the Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee, our Board of 
Directors and Board Committees if warranted.
In 2019, we reviewed and updated our governance structure 
for human rights due diligence across our value chain by 
establishing the Enterprise Human Rights Governance Council 
(EHRGC) that reports directly to the EGC. The EHRGC is 
a team of experts representing main enterprise functions 
responsible for various aspects of human rights due diligence 
and management across our own operations and the supply 
base, including Supply Chain, Human Resources, Global 
Procurement, Law Department, Corporate Governance, 
Government Affairs & Policy, and Environmental Health, Safety 
& Sustainability (EHS&S). In 2019, the EHRGC engaged with 
Shift, the leading center of expertise on the United Nations 
(UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, to 
help us identify and prioritize salient human rights issues at 
the enterprise level in a two-day workshop involving about 40 
leaders across the Company. The outcomes of the workshop 
have informed the EHRGC’s 2020 workplan and activities 
to continue strengthening our human rights due diligence 
approach. Johnson & Johnson also joined Shift’s Business 
Learning Program to continue and deepen our engagement 
with Shift and be part of a cross-industry network of companies 
working to develop sustainable approaches to implementing the 
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.  
Our own operations: Our Position on Employment and Labor 
Rights articulates our expectations for labor and employment 
practices at our sites, including preventing forced labor and 
child labor, and non-discrimination, among other matters. 
In 2019, we continued developing a risk-based approach to 
assessing compliance with our internal standards related to the 
human rights of our employees.
Our operating companies are required to respect each 
employee’s right to make an informed decision, free of coercion, 
about membership in associations and/or labor unions. 
Employees have the right to organize or join associations, and 2017 Health for Humanity Report 79
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 79
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Supply base: The Johnson & Johnson Responsibility Standards 
for Suppliers outline our expectations of supplier business 
conduct. The Standards align closely with the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Consumer 
Goods Forum Forced Labor Resolution and Priority Industry 
Principles. We continue to strengthen our due diligence 
approach to human rights issues in the supply base. Our 
cross-functional Human Rights Working Group—comprised of 
Global Procurement, Law Department, EHS&S, and Corporate 
Governance functional groups—meets regularly, and continued 
to make progress on expanding our social audit program in 2019. 
This Human Rights Working Group reports up through to the 
newly established EHRGC. To read more, see our Position on 
Responsible Supply Base and Engaging Suppliers section of 
this Report.
Training: Our human rights training covering all aspects of 
our Position on Human Rights is mandatory for all Global 
Procurement employees and is also assigned to other relevant 
functions as needed.
Acquisitions: We firmly believe that identifying and 
understanding environmental, safety and employee issues, 
including potential human rights concerns, are critical 
components of our acquisition and other business development 
activities. We conduct thorough due diligence investigations 
prior to acquiring businesses and apply a commensurately 
higher level of scrutiny to businesses with operations or 
suppliers in countries where there are traditionally higher 
risks of compliance violations and/or human rights abuses. 
We continue to be mindful of these concerns as we transition 
newly acquired businesses into the Johnson & Johnson Family 
of Companies, and are prepared to escalate and appropriately 
remediate any issues uncovered.Grievance mechanisms: We are committed to providing 
effective resolution where we have caused or contributed to 
adverse human rights impacts. Where we find impacts directly 
linked to our business relationships, we will use our influence to 
work with our suppliers or business partners to prevent, mitigate 
and address adverse impacts on human rights. The  
Johnson & Johnson Credo Hotline—a grievance mechanism 
available to all employees, suppliers and other business 
partners—offers a secure mechanism for anonymous reporting, 
where permitted, of suspected concerns or potential violations 
of our policies or the law. We communicate the hotline access 
broadly, and the visibility of this access and hotline functionality 
is in scope for enterprise-wide audit procedures. Concerns 
raised through the hotline are reported at an enterprise level. 
More information on the Credo Hotline is available in our 
Commitment to Ethics & Compliance section.
In addition to the Credo Hotline, our employees can 
anonymously report potential violations to the Human Resources 
function within each operating company locally. To read more, 
see our Position on Resolving Employee Grievances.
Information Security & Data Privacy
GRI 418
Johnson & Johnson is committed to protecting its information 
assets. Our Information Security and Risk Management (ISRM) 
organization, led by our Chief Information Security Officer, 
has global reach with a presence in all regions of the world, 
and provides ongoing security consulting on relevant policies, 
procedures and requirements to all Johnson & Johnson 
businesses. ISRM has developed a robust program, which 
constantly enhances our security capabilities to safeguard 
the Company’s networks, systems, products, and information 
against evolving cyber threats. In terms of data privacy, it is our 
strict policy to protect the privacy of those who entrust us with 
their personal information. In addition to our Code of Business 
Conduct and all the laws that apply to our operating companies’ 
handling of personal information, we also have global privacy 
policies to which all our businesses worldwide must adhere. 
Our policies reflect our commitment to fair and transparent 
information practices.Our advances in the area of information security and data 
privacy in 2019 include:
• Enhanced compliance capabilities: We increased efforts to 
ensure compliance with the growing number of new privacy 
and cybersecurity laws around the globe, which all have 
security and/or data protection requirements. For example, 
we collaborated widely across our organization to become 
compliant with the new California Consumer Privacy Act, 
which became effective on January 1, 2020. The Act is 
focused on providing California consumers with the ability 
to request access to, correction of, and deletion of their 
data as well as opting out of allowing a company to sell their 
information. Remediation of over 100 websites controlled by 
Johnson & Johnson and the establishment of processes to 
support consumer requests were required to be compliant. 
• Improved product security: We partnered with product 
teams, providing consulting and engineering support for 
multiple pre-market medical devices and post-market 
product lines, increasing confidence that cybersecurity 
controls are in place to ensure the availability of the devices 
and the confidentiality and integrity of their associated data.
• Improved controls in our supply chain: We defined a 
cybersecurity strategy and initiated a multi-year program to 
improve technical and administrative cyber controls within 
Johnson & Johnson’s supply chain across 125 manufacturing 
and delivery sites. The program will raise the security and 
resiliency of our supply chain systems and our ability to 
achieve supply continuity of our products to both patients 
and consumers.
• Reinforced internal cybersecurity controls: As every year, 
we continued to improve our cybersecurity controls to 
protect our enterprise networks, computing resources, and 
data from the expanding and evolving cybersecurity threats 
across our worldwide business.1,532  or 93%  of all Global Procurement 
employees completed human rights training 
since 20182017 Health for Humanity Report 80
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 80
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Corporate Governance
GRI 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-26, 102-33
We believe that good corporate governance results from 
sound processes that ensure that our Board of Directors is 
well supported by accurate and timely information, sufficient 
time and resources, and unrestricted access to management. 
The business judgment of the Board must be exercised 
independently and in the long-term interests of our shareholders 
and stakeholders.  
We also believe that ethics and integrity cannot be legislated 
or mandated only by directive or policy. So, while we adopt our 
Principles of Corporate Governance, we reaffirm our belief that 
the ethical character, integrity and values of our Directors and 
senior management remain the most important safeguards of 
corporate governance at Johnson & Johnson.
“The Board understands that concern for 
environmental, social and governance matters is critical 
to achieve the Company’s goal of tackling pressing 
global health challenges through innovative products and 
solutions for patients and customers around the world, 
now and in the future. The Company’s long-term success 
depends on effectively serving all Credo stakeholders, 
and that is why we work closely with management to 
continually improve its approach to assessing, managing 
and overseeing ESG risks and opportunities, and to 
ensure that the Company is meeting its commitment to 
sustainable and responsible growth.”
Mary C. Beckerle, Ph.D., Independent Johnson & Johnson 
Board Member and Chair, Science, Technology & Sustainability 
Committee“This new statement better reflects the way 
corporations can and should operate today. It affirms 
the essential role corporations can play in improving our 
society when CEOs are truly committed to meeting the 
needs of all stakeholders.”
Alex Gorsky, Chairman, Board of Directors and  
Chief Executive Officer, Johnson & Johnson
93%  of Directors on the Board in 2019 were 
independentEndorsing a new statement 
on the Purpose of a 
Corporation
The Business Roundtable’s Corporate Governance 
Committee released a new statement on the 
Purpose of a Corporation, which affirms its 
member CEOs’ commitment to a broader set of 
stakeholders including customers, employees, and 
communities, as well as shareholders. A total of 
183 CEOs signed the statement on behalf of their 
organizations. Since 1978, Business Roundtable 
has periodically issued Principles of Corporate 
Governance. Each version of the document issued 
since 1997 has endorsed principles of shareholder 
primacy – that corporations exist principally to 
serve shareholders. 
The 2019 statement supersedes previous 
statements and outlines a modern standard 
for corporate responsibility. This is not new for 
Johnson & Johnson: Our Credo, established 
in 1943, and including subsequent updates, 
already established our commitment to patients, 
customers, employees, communities and the 
environment, as well as to stockholders in our 
Company. Our Board of Directors oversees our business in alignment with 
Our Credo values, enabling us to make a positive contribution 
to society while maintaining a thriving business. Our governance 
structure, policies and processes are designed to serve the 
needs of our business, our shareholders and stakeholders, and 
to promote a culture of accountability across the Company. Our 
Board of Directors remains accessible to all stakeholders and 
can be contacted via several channels.
We are a signatory to the Commonsense Corporate 
Governance Principles 2.0 and are committed to using these 
standards to inform the corporate governance practices within 
Johnson & Johnson. The Commonsense Principles 2.0 aspire to 
promote a constructive dialogue on good corporate governance 
for the benefit of millions of Americans who work for and invest 
in America’s public companies.  
We maintain a full suite of information and resources relating 
to corporate governance on our Johnson & Johnson corporate 
website, including our Principles of Corporate Governance, 
governance structures, Board Charters and all SEC filings. See 
also our Position on Corporate Governance.2017 Health for Humanity Report 81
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 81
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Updates relating to corporate governance from 2019 include:
Board engagement: Our Board of Directors believes that 
long-term leadership in healthcare requires strong governance 
and steadfast oversight of the Company’s most significant 
opportunities and risks. Our Board is deeply engaged in 
overseeing our quality and compliance practices to ensure that 
they are designed to produce safe, high-quality products. Our 
Board also believes that current and future success depends 
on strong, ethical leadership that reflects Our Credo values. 
The Board focused on the Company’s approach to talent 
development, succession planning and diversity and inclusion, 
and reviewed the results of our biennial Our Voice Employee 
Survey to ensure that the Company is fostering a culture of 
inclusion and compliance.
Enterprise Risk Framework: Our Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) Framework assists the Board and management teams 
in identifying potential business risks. In 2019, we updated 
the Johnson & Johnson ERM Framework to align with the 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission’s 2017 ERM Framework update, which highlights 
the importance of considering risk both in the strategy-setting 
process and in driving performance. Our updated Enterprise 
Risk Management Framework is now available on our website. 
Effectively informing stakeholders: In the spirit of good 
governance and transparency, we believe it is important to 
inform our stakeholders of our approach on key topics involving 
sustainability and citizenship, and, at the same time, make 
this information accessible. In 2019, we embarked upon a 
comprehensive review of all our policies and positions relating 
to sustainability and citizenship and key topics in advancing 
healthcare. This project, involving experts and senior executives 
from almost every function across our business, resulted in 
our new ESG Policies & Positions section on JNJ.com, which 
enables stakeholders to easily search for our approach to key 
topics of interest, and also locate clusters of related topics. In 
2019, we extended our efforts to better inform shareholders with 
expanded disclosure on Board oversight of strategy and risk, and 
narrative on the oversight of human capital management in our 
Proxy Statement.Corporate Governance IndicatorsOur Performance
2019 2018 2017
Number of Directors on the Board 14 11 10
Number of independent Directors on the Board 13 10 9
Percentage of independent Directors on the Board 93% 91% 90% 
Lead independent Director Yes Yes Yes
Independent Audit Committee Yes Yes Yes
Independent Compensation & Benefits Committee Yes Yes Yes
Independent Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee Yes Yes Yes
Independent Regulatory Compliance Committee* Yes Yes Yes
Independent Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee Yes Yes Yes
Number of regular and special meetings held by the Board of Directors 9 9 9
* Prior to 2019 this Committee was called Regulatory, Compliance & Government Affairs. 2017 Health for Humanity Report 82
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 82
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Responsible Supply Base 
GRI 102-9, 204, 204-1     SASB HC-MS-430a.3
As the world’s largest healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson 
maintains operations in virtually all countries of the world 
and works with more than 58,000 suppliers across three 
business segments. We manage a complex network of supplier 
relationships that are critical to business success and our ability 
to fulfill our obligations to those we serve. 
We believe in maintaining strict controls to minimize negative 
impacts of our supply activity on the environment and people, 
and seek to ensure human rights are upheld in our supply chain. 
We work with suppliers who share our values and commitment 
to operating responsibly. All suppliers are expected to comply 
with our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers, and this is 
reflected in our contracts. Our management of human rights in 
the supply chain is led by a cross-functional working group with 
Procurement, Legal, Corporate Governance and Environmental 
Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) representatives. This 
group meets regularly to address issues and advance plans, such 
as our supplier audit programs. Our Procurement employees 
complete mandatory training on our Responsibility Standards 
each year. See also our Position on Responsible Supply Base.
In this section, we describe our progress in 2019 to engage, 
assess and monitor suppliers in practices inclusive of economic, 
social, and environmental sustainability. “We make a strategic and positive impact for all of 
our stakeholders through our long-term approach to 
sustainable procurement including economic, social, and 
environmental sustainability. This means that we work 
closely with our global supplier community to amplify and 
expand the reach of our activities beyond today—for our 
collective future.”
Len DeCandia, Chief Procurement Officer,  
Johnson & Johnson58,000  suppliers globally
$30.1 billion  total supplier spend*
52%4%Supplier Spend by Region*
33%
11%North America
EMEA
Asia Pacific
Latin AmericaConsumer Health
Pharmaceutical
Medical Devices
Corporate
32%24%
13%Supplier Spend by Business Segment*
31%
* Spend we have control over / addressable spend; includes products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.2017 Health for Humanity Report 83
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 83
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Engaging Suppliers
GRI 308, 308-1, 308-2, 407-1 408-1, 409-1, 412-1, 414, 414-1
We continue to enroll suppliers in our Sustainable Procurement 
Program (SPP) to help drive social and environmental 
improvements, set clear targets and improve transparency 
throughout our supply base. 
Supplier sustainability assessment and disclosure: As part 
of their participation in our SPP, all suppliers complete an 
assessment by EcoVadis, a recognized provider of business 
sustainability ratings for global supply chains. In 2019, 750 
suppliers underwent an EcoVadis assessment. Among the 
suppliers we have assessed more than once, we see our program 
driving supplier improvements across all areas of sustainability, 
most notably labor standards and environmental performance, 
increasing scores by 4% and 2.5% respectively. An important 
part of this program is encouraging our suppliers to publicly 
disclose their environmental performance—including emissions 
and water use—to CDP as part of our own CDP Supply Chain 
commitment. In 2019, 344 Johnson & Johnson suppliers were 
requested to disclose to CDP, an increase of 13% over 2018. 
This progress demonstrates the positive influence a large 
sustainability-minded procurement organization can have across 
its entire supply chain, influencing the way business impacts 
social development and environmental stewardship through 
multiple suppliers around the world.Auditing supplier compliance through Environmental Health 
& Safety (EH&S) and Social Audits: We verify and monitor 
supplier compliance with laws and regulations, and with 
our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers through formal 
assessment and audits. Our EH&S audit program, which has 
been in place since 2006, is conducted using the audit protocol 
and checklist developed by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Initiative (PSCI). We completed 134 EH&S audits in 2019, the 
majority of them in Asia. We further standardized our framework 
for ensuring compliance with our human rights standards 
by launching a dedicated social audit program. In 2018, we 
introduced a program of social audits, mostly conducted 
according to SMETA 4 guidelines and with a focus on human 
rights. In 2019, our first full year of social audits, 50 audits were 
completed by accredited external firms. Our procurement 
teams are progressing plans with relevant suppliers to 
establish corrective actions and support suppliers with their 
implementation.  1,589 or 96%  of all Global Procurement 
employees completed training on Responsibility 
Standards for Suppliers since 2018.84%  of suppliers in our SPP submitted 
climate change information upon our request as 
part of our CDP Supply Chain program.         2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
71%  
Enrolled suppliers covering approximately 71% of 
spend in our Sustainable Procurement Program.
        On track               View scorecard
       Highlight
In 2019, Johnson & Johnson was again named to 
the CDP supplier engagement leader board. We 
were the first healthcare company to achieve this 
position in 2018 and the first healthcare company 
to do so for three years in a row.2017 Health for Humanity Report 84
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 84
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Sustainable Procurement Program (SPP) Our Performance
2019 2018 2017
Spend with suppliers enrolled in SPP (billions)* $ 1 7.1 $16.3 $15.0
Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to suppliers enrolled in SPP 71% 61% 51%
Number of suppliers newly enrolled in SPP, annual 279 139 33
Number of suppliers enrolled in SPP, total since the program launch (2015) 779 500 361
Suppliers invited to participate in CDP Supply Chain Climate program 344 305 250
Percentage participated 84% 90% 97%
Suppliers invited to participate in the CDP Supply Chain Water program 112 108 108
Percentage participated 84% 88% 86%
* Spend we have control over / addressable spend; includes products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.2017 Health for Humanity Report 85
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 85
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Supplier Social AuditsOur Performance
2019 2018
Supplier social audits completed, total 50 11
Completed using SMETA 4-pillar protocol 37 9
Completed using PSCI protocol 13 2
Social audits completed, by region
    Asia Pacific 37 8
    Europe, Middle East & Africa 5 1
    Latin America 6 2
    North America 2 0
Number of critical findings* identified as a result of supplier 
social audits5 02019 2018 2017
EH&S audits and technical visits** completed, total 206 185 189
EH&S audits 134 101Not 
reported
Technical visits 72 84Not 
reported
Audits and technical visits, by region
    Asia Pacific 174 155 162
    Europe, Middle East & Africa 13 18 21
    Latin America 7 5 6
    North America 12 7 0
Number of suppliers identified as high-risk for non-
conformance to Johnson & Johnson Responsibility Standards 
for Suppliers32 23 23
Number of critical EH&S findings* identified as a result of EH&S 
audits34 27 25
Safety-related 23 21 22
Environmental-related 11 6 3Supplier EH&S Audits
2019 2018 2017
EcoVadis assessments completed 750 542 685
Supplier risk ranking based on EcoVadis assessments
    Low-risk 462 323 342
    Medium-risk 259 195 301
    High-risk 29 24 42Supplier EcoVadis Assessments
* We define a critical finding as evidence of very high risk to human life or potential catastrophic impact to facility, community or 
environment. We expect suppliers and potential suppliers to address critical findings immediately.
** A technical visit is a follow-up visit to the initial audit.2017 Health for Humanity Report 86
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 86
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Enhancing Supplier Diversity  
& Inclusion
The Johnson & Johnson Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Program 
has a track record of advancing supplier diversity within our 
business for more than 20 years. We proactively reach out to 
diverse businesses to help raise awareness of opportunities with 
Johnson & Johnson and provide guidance on how to engage 
with us. We collaborate with a wide range of organizations to 
promote outreach to and opportunities for diverse suppliers. 
We believe our suppliers should be representative of the 
consumers and patients we serve. We know that spend with 
diverse suppliers can have a significant economic impact in 
the communities in which we live and work by stimulating the 
economy.
Advancing women-owned businesses: We continually seek 
to advance women-owned businesses and help them grow. 
Johnson & Johnson procurement staff supported our supplier 
Eficacia in achieving WeConnect International certification, 
boosting Eficacia’s chances of winning additional business 
with large companies. Eficacia, a women-owned family 
business with more than 25,000 employees, is our main 
partner for merchandising and field sales in our Consumer 
Health and Medical Devices businesses in Colombia. Eficacia, 
with a mission to create economic opportunities especially in 
marginalized communities, provides merchandising services 
at 11,000 points of sale locations for Johnson & Johnson. 
With Eficacia recently extending their operations to Peru and 
Ecuador, we are now expanding our partnership with Eficacia in 
these countries.
Mentoring women-owned businesses: Following the 2017 
launch of our Women Mentoring Women, a first-of-a-kind 
reciprocal mentoring program that matched 22 women leaders 
in Procurement roles in Johnson & Johnson with Women-
Owned Business Enterprise (WBE) owners, we held a meeting 
with participants to share insights and learning. Building on 
the success of the first two years, the 2019 – 2020 cohort is 
now being planned and will include new elements, such as: 
participation of Johnson & Johnson women leaders who are 
in roles outside Procurement; capability-building program 
experiences; and expansion of the program outside the  
United States. Connecting with social enterprises in the UK: We are one 
of seven founding partners of the Buy Social Corporate 
Challenge in the UK, taking a lead role in partnering with social 
enterprises to bring value. We supported the launch of the Buy 
Social Corporate Challenge, an initiative to promote the use of 
Social Enterprises in corporate supply chains. Since its launch 
we have worked with over 40 social enterprises creating job 
opportunities for those facing barriers to work.
Supporting employment of people with disabilities: Around 
the world, we channel our procurement spend to encourage 
employment of diverse populations, including those with 
disabilities. We maintain long-term relationships, often spanning 
decades, with many social enterprises to support this goal, 
for example, with Access Industries in Australia, which has 
been working with Johnson & Johnson for more than 40 years, 
providing packaging services for our consumer business. Access 
Industries has a current workforce of 480 individuals, offering 
viable employment for people with disabilities.   “We’ve been working with Johnson & Johnson since 2014 
and it has been such a valuable partnership. The young 
people that have trained and worked with us have gone 
through a transformation in terms of self-confidence and 
job prospects, and there is no way we could have done that 
if it weren’t for Johnson & Johnson.”
Ann Summerhayes, Managing Director, Inside Job Productions, 
audio visual production company         2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
Exceeded benchmark diverse supplier spending at 
11% and benchmark small supplier spending at 18% 
of total U.S. spend.
Expanded our supplier diversity and inclusion 
programs to three additional countries (France, 
Indonesia and Singapore) for a total of 16 countries 
against the baseline of six.
        On track               View scorecard
“Johnson & Johnson has been a pioneer in adopting and 
embedding social procurement into its business operations. 
Having a global business of their scale demonstrates how 
businesses of all sizes and from a wide range of sectors can 
practically use their spending power to create a positive 
impact on society. As a founding partner of the Buy Social 
Corporate Challenge, Johnson & Johnson's collaborative 
approach and leadership have enabled the initiative to 
grow from seven large businesses to 23.”
Peter Holbrook CBE, Chief Executive, Social Enterprise UK       Highlight
In 2019, we onboarded our first certified women-
owned business in Japan, Waris Co. Ltd., a 
business that connects professional skilled women 
with potential employers in Japan. Waris manages 
a network of 10,000 freelancers, also encouraging 
women who have been absent from the 
workplace—especially after childbirth—to go back 
to work and continue to work with confidence.2017 Health for Humanity Report 87
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 87
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Supporting Minority-Owned Businesses: We support minority-
owned business around the world with over 250 diverse 
suppliers from Australia, Canada, South Africa and the UK. In 
2019, we expanded our external outreach, becoming members 
of Integrare in Brazil. 
In the United States, Johnson & Johnson expanded its focus on 
sourcing and developing minority-owned firms for the supply 
chain. We have more than 400 minority-owned suppliers 
that provide over $870 million in goods and services. We 
increased our sponsorship with the United States Hispanic 
Chamber of Commerce, by whom our Johnson & Johnson 
Employee Resource Group was recognized the prior year, and 
strengthened our overall relationship. We also sponsored a 
key supplier of food and cafeteria services to participate in the 
National Minority Supplier Development Council’s prestigious 
Corporate Plus program, which provided that supplier with 
advanced training opportunities and exposure to other major 
companies. In addition, we continued to serve as a major 
sponsor and corporate member of the Diverse Manufacturing 
Supply Chain Alliance, where we sponsor diverse firms to 
participate in their groundbreaking Supplier Development 
program, and also actively engage in industry working groups to 
drive standard practices across peer companies.Diverse Supplier Spend in the United States*Our Performance
 2019 2018 2017
Diverse supplier spend (billions) $1.61 $1.42 $1.41
Percentage of total supplier spend 
attributable to diverse suppliers11% 10% 10%
Small supplier spend (billions) $2.61 $2.76 $2.67
Percentage of total supplier spend 
attributable to small suppliers18% 19% 19%
Spend with lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender suppliers (millions)$4 $2 $1
Spend with veteran- and disabled-
owned suppliers (millions)$170 $139 $130
* Spend we have control over / addressable spend; includes products and 
services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business 
goals.       Highlight
For the ninth consecutive year, Johnson & Johnson 
maintained membership in the Billion Dollar 
Roundtable, a group of companies that advanced 
best practices for supplier diversity, and that spend 
at least $1 billion (Tier 1) annually with certified 
minority-, women-, veteran-, LGBT- and disability-
owned businesses.Driving supplier diversity in 
our R&D supply chain
Increasing diversity spend for R&D procurement 
has been a constant challenge, with smaller 
suppliers becoming acquired by others and losing 
their diversity certification. Over the past few 
years, this has impacted more than 25% of our R&D 
supplier diversity spend. In 2019, to help develop 
practical approaches to this challenge, we hosted 
the first R&D Procurement Supplier Diversity Peer 
Ideation Event focused on enhancing collaboration 
with small and diverse suppliers. Representatives 
of nine of our pharmaceutical company peers, 
pharmaceutical industry associations and 
supplier partners joined our R&D procurement 
team to generate ideas on ways to increase 
our collaboration efforts with small and diverse 
suppliers. Together, we are taking forward some 
practical ideas and evaluating others. 2017 Health for Humanity Report 88
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 88
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Sourcing Responsibly
We aim to source raw materials and packaging in a sustainable 
manner, considering the resource and biodiversity impacts on 
the planet as well as human rights and fair labor conditions 
throughout our extended supply chain. Our Responsibility 
Standards for Suppliers outline our expectations for any 
supplier working with us. We supplement these guidelines 
with additional material-specific sourcing criteria for key 
commodities or materials of concern to ensure we are not 
complicit in practices that are not consistent with our standards 
or applicable laws. We maintain partnerships with organizations 
that help us define appropriate standards and controls in 
responsible sourcing. 
Forest partnership: We have completed the first full year 
of our multi-year partnership with the World Wildlife Fund 
(WWF), whose mission is to conserve nature and reduce the 
most pressing threats to the diversity of life on Earth. In the 
first year of our partnership with WWF, we laid the foundation 
for advancing innovations in sustainable palm oil production 
done at a scale that supports forests, wildlife, and long-term 
community wellbeing. Palm oil product sourcing: We continue to partner with 
Earthworm Foundation to implement our sourcing criteria 
with our top suppliers by volume, building transparency and 
monitoring non-conformance. We published a progress update 
in October 2019 and also published an updated list of direct 
suppliers and potential mills in our supply chain. In 2019, we saw 
increased transparency (back to mill) in our supply chain over 
the prior year. 
Wood-fiber products sourcing: In 2019, we continued our 
partnership with Rainforest Alliance to implement our Wood-
Fiber Products Sourcing Criteria and improve our supplier 
assessment. We published a progress update in October 
2019 . This year we also brought on a new technology partner, 
SupplyShift, to help us improve the accuracy and efficiency 
in our wood-fiber products sourcing. We introduced the 
SupplyShift platform to suppliers in late 2019 and expect this 
tool will support noticeable improvements in our annual supply 
chain assessment.
Conflict Minerals: In line with regulatory requirements, we 
remain committed to taking steps to determine the use, country 
of origin and source of conflict minerals (tin, tungsten, tantalum 
and gold [3TG]) in our global product portfolio. Our annual 
Conflict Minerals Report provides further details. We are a 
member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative, a cross-industry 
organization that helps companies source conflict-free minerals.       Highlight
In 2019, we significantly improved our disclosure 
to the CDP Forests Program, achieving A- scores 
for both timber and palm oil disclosures, up from 
C scores in 2018, which was our first year of 
submission. We are one of about 300 companies 
worldwide that disclose to this important CDP 
framework addressing deforestation impacts. 2017 Health for Humanity Report 89
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 89
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our planet is facing unprecedented environmental challenges, 
including climate change, water scarcity, degradation of ecosystems, 
and natural resources depletion. The World Economic Forum’s "Global 
Risks Report 2020," the 15th such report, notes that for the first time 
in the history of the Global Risks Perception Survey environmental 
concerns dominate the top long-term risks. 
As a global manufacturer, we recognize our role in helping to conserve 
and protect natural resources. As a leader in the healthcare industry, 
we know that human health is inextricably linked to the health of the 
planet—we can’t have healthy people and communities without a 
healthy environment. To this end, we are committed to marshaling our 
expertise, resources and partnerships to reduce the environmental 
footprint of our operations, our products and our extended supply 
chain while delivering Better Health for All.
Our performance reflects decades of proactive environmental 
stewardship, guided by Our Credo, which states: “We must maintain 
in good order the property we are privileged to use, protecting the 
environment and natural resources.” Our approach is based on:
• Optimizing our operations by improving water and energy 
efficiency and reducing our waste footprint;
• Reducing lifecycle impacts of our products and solutions by 
focusing on sustainable design, material use efficiency, reduction in 
product packaging, and managing product end-of-life impacts;
• Encouraging our suppliers to make environmental improvements in 
their own businesses and respective supply chains; and
• Partnering with stakeholders to influence change on a broader 
scale beyond our own operations.Environmental 
Health 
© Norther wind farm off the coast of Belgium and the Netherlands provides renewable energy for our operations  in 
both countries.GRI 302, 303, 305, 307 , 307-1 2017 Health for Humanity Report 90
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 90
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
 Key Achievements in 2019 
• Received CDP Climate Change and Water Security A List 
ratings for leadership in environmental transparency and 
performance. 
• Continued progress on integrating sustainable design and 
exceeding our EARTHWARDS 2020 Goal for recognition 
of sustainability improvements in our products across 
Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and Consumer Health 
segments. 
• Accelerated our renewable energy efforts with four new 
power purchase agreements in Belgium, Ireland, Mexico 
and the Netherlands, totaling over 370,000 megawatt-hours 
(MWh) per year and significantly advancing progress toward 
our 100% renewable electricity goal.
• All Johnson & Johnson sites globally with high water risk 
have mitigation plans and budget in place for execution.    
Areas of Opportunity 
• Continue to address the link between the environment 
and human health through innovative partnerships, policy 
advocacy and research. 
• Update our science-based Scope 1 and Scope 2 climate 
targets, and set a Scope 3 target for supplier emissions 
associated with our purchased goods and services. 
• Identify short- and long-term actions to implement our 
Consumer Health 100% recyclability commitment through 
both designing for recyclability and investing in recycling 
infrastructure to address hard-to-recycle formats such as 
tubes and films. 
Policies and Positions 
Our policies and positions relating to Environmental Health are 
referenced throughout this section. In addition, you can view 
our overarching Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) Policy, 
our Position on Human Health and the Environment and our 
Position on Respecting Biodiversity on our website, along with 
all Johnson & Johnson ESG policies and positions relating to 
Environmental Health. EH&S GovernanceOur Performance
2019 2018 2017
Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001 100‡112 102
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001 97%‡99% 94%
Percentage of of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to OHSAS 18001 
(Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) or ISO 45001*24%‡32% 33%
Number of environmental non-compliances 61‡44 64
Fines paid for environmental non-compliances (thousands) $41‡$2 $0
* ISO 45001 replaces OHSAS 18001 as the world’s first International Standard dealing with health and safety at work; all OHSAS 18001 certificates must transition to ISO 
45001 by August 11, 2021.
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants.2017 Health for Humanity Report 91
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 91
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Becoming more energy- and carbon-efficient are essential ways 
we can reduce our impact on the planet while maintaining cost-
effective manufacturing and supply for our patients, consumers 
and customers around the world. We have a long history of 
innovation and leadership in energy management, and have 
taken sustained, long-term action to reduce our greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions.
Clean energy: In 2019, we became founding members with 
Board representation of the Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance 
(REBA), an association for large-scale energy buyers working 
toward the creation of a resilient, zero-carbon energy system 
across the United States. We have collaborated heavily with 
non-governmental organizations and peer companies in the 
REBA membership, which has helped us progress our renewable 
energy initiatives.Climate Resilience
GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7
        Highlight
We have 48 solar arrays and five wind turbines, 
totaling 40 megawatts of capacity on our properties 
in 14 countries – enough to power an estimated 5,800 
households for a year.“ Through REBA, we can help make renewable 
energy more accessible, not just for our Company, but 
for our entire value chain. By taking a multi-pronged 
approach to removing barriers for renewable energy 
adoption, we hope to drive the impact well beyond our 
operations.”
Jed Richardson, Senior Director, Environmental Stewardship, 
Johnson & Johnson           2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
32%  
CO2 emissions decreased by 32% globally since 
2010 (Scope 1 and Scope 2).
        Achieved               View scorecard
         2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
30%  
of our electricity is produced or procured from 
renewable energy sources. 
        On track               View scorecard
Solar PV
Co-generation
Wind
Biomass
39%25%
2%On-site Clean Energy Capacity
31%1%
Geothermal
Fuel cellsDriving climate action in 
C40 Cities
We continue to make progress on our partnership with 
30 C40 Cities committing to drive progress on climate 
actions that also have air quality improvements and 
health co-benefits. 
An analysis conducted by C40 of climate actions taken 
in 25 cities focused on cleaner transport, industry 
and energy, and more efficient buildings, showed 
that carbon emissions could be significantly reduced 
while at the same time improving air quality for the 
citizens in these cities. Considering that air pollution 
is responsible for an estimated 25% of all adult deaths 
from heart disease and stroke, 43% from chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease and 29% from lung 
cancer,16 these actions in turn could help prevent 
thousands of premature deaths and hospital admissions 
due to air pollution. The C40 partnership continues 
to expand to more cities, driving the business case for 
additional climate and clean air actions across all cities 
in the program. 
        Highlight
For the second consecutive year, we were named 
to the CDP Climate Change A List, putting us 
among the top 2% of companies participating in 
the survey.
2%2017 Health for Humanity Report 92
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 92
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Energy & emissions 
We continue to advance energy efficiency and GHG emission-
reduction initiatives across our global manufacturing operations 
and supply chain, using ISO 50001 as a guide in our energy 
management strategy. Examples of our climate initiatives in 2019 
include:
LEED certification in Ireland: The Janssen Sciences Ireland 
campus in Cork, dedicated to biologics manufacturing and 
testing, achieved LEED (Leadership in Energy & Environmental 
Design) silver certification. LEED green building features at Cork 
include: charging stations for up to 22 electric cars, covered 
bicycle parking, open space for protecting natural vegetation, 
adjustable sun-shades on each building level that reduce solar 
glare and heat gain within the building, and two wind turbines 
that provide renewable electricity for approximately 50% of the 
site’s electricity usage each year. 
Wind energy in four countries: In 2019, we accelerated our 
renewable energy efforts with four new power purchase 
agreements in Belgium, Ireland, Mexico and the Netherlands 
totaling over 370,000 megawatt-hours (MWh) per year, 
significantly advancing progress toward our 100% renewable 
electricity goal.
We also installed a windmill at our largest chemical production 
site in Geel, Belgium. The windmill has a capacity of 3.4 MW of 
electricity production and is expected to provide up to 15% of 
Geel’s electricity consumption.Geothermal energy at our site in Beerse, Belgium:  
Janssen’s Beerse campus is the largest energy user of all 
Johnson & Johnson sites worldwide, and in 2019 we commenced 
drilling of two geothermal energy wells, each around 2.4 
kilometers (1.5 miles) deep, that will bring hot water up from the 
ground. When completed, this renewably sourced hot water will 
substantially reduce the site’s energy needs and CO2 emissions.
Optimizing cooling systems in Puerto Rico: We succeeded in 
reducing our CO2 emissions by more than 1,300 tons annually 
at our plant in Las Piedras, Puerto Rico, through optimizing a 
chilled water system in the plant, including replacement of two 
chillers and three cooling towers with more energy-efficient 
technology.   
Improving energy efficiency in cleanrooms in the 
Netherlands: Janssen Vaccines & Prevention B.V., in Leiden, 
the Netherlands, achieved approximately 10% energy reduction 
through reducing the airflow of cleanrooms after work hours 
while maintaining quality and biosafety requirements. As 
air handling units account for about 50% of energy use in 
our cleanrooms, this positively impacted our overall energy 
consumption and resulting GHG emission levels.   
Capital expenditure for energy efficiency: Energy efficiency 
programs at our most energy-intensive manufacturing and 
R&D sites remain a priority, and are allocated up to $40 million 
per year in capital relief for energy projects through our CO2 
Capital Relief Program. To be eligible for funding, projects 
must demonstrate potential CO2 savings and should provide a 
financial return of 15% or higher.        Highlight
Green buildings are healthy for the environment 
and for all those who work in them. Our goal is 
LEED certification for all new Johnson & Johnson 
buildings and renovations of $5 million or more. In 
2019, eight million square feet—or 13% of all our 
built space—was LEED-certified. “ We anticipate that using geothermal energy will 
reduce our CO2 emissions in Beerse by about 30%. 
This equals the emissions generated by about 3,000 
households.”
Marijke Anthuenis, Director, Project Management,  
Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson266  projects approved
231  projects completed
$431 million  total spent on completed 
projects
$80 million  annual energy cost savings*
2,247  TJ annual energy savings*
287 ,931  MT CO2 annual GHG emissions 
avoided*
* Results from completed projects. Based on fuel and electricity 
reduction calculations. Avoidance of energy consumption and 
GHG emissions calculated by comparing energy consumption 
before project implementation and expected consumption after 
implementation using engineering estimates at the time the projects 
are approved.CO2 Capital Relief Program 
Overview (2005-2019)
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD): 
We support the TCFD recommendations for climate-related 
disclosures. See our annual CDP Climate Report for additional 
climate-related disclosures based on TCFD recommendations.2017 Health for Humanity Report 93
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 93
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Our Performance
2019 2018 2017
Total energy use (TJ) 12,702 13,208 12,685
From renewable sources 2,118 2,246 1,816
From non-renewable sources 10,584 10,962 10,869
Energy intensity ratio (TJ/$billion)2155 162 164
Percentage change in energy intensity compared 
to 2010 baseline (TJ/$billion)2 (29%) (24%) (24%)
2019 2018 2017
Electricity 6,421 6,583 6,352
Natural gas 4,808 5,020 4,892
Diesel 465 592 929
Direct heating/cooling 274 180 238
Propane 51 90 64
Biogas 26 28 23
Fuel oil 15 15 15
Total purchased energy 12,059 12,507 12,5122019 2018 2017
Co-generation 439 525 581
Wind 97 78 65
Solar PV 78 56 82
Geothermal 6 18 24
Fuel cell 22 23 24
Biomass 2 2 2
Total on-site generated energy 643 701 778Purchased Energy Use by Type (TJ)1Energy Use1On-Site Generated Energy Use by Type (TJ)12017 Health for Humanity Report 94
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 94
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
2019 2018 2017
Scope 1 GHG emissions, total (MT CO2e)4415,094‡452,407 474,497 
Scope 1 GHG emissions, by source (MT CO2e)4
Facilities1278,717 308,200 329,731 
Sales fleet15114,681 122,194 123,179 
Refrigerants1612,979 12,298 9,830
Aviation 8,717 9,715 11,757
Scope 2 GHG emissions, facilities (MT CO2e)1, 4
Location-based 648,598‡ 681,416 685,819 
Market-based5518,542‡ 583,361 639,323 
Scope 3 GHG emissions, by source (MT CO2e)4, 14
Purchased goods and services69,229,943‡ 8,826,462 8,117,919 
Upstream transportation and distribution62,201,590‡2,039,872 1,893,440 
Business travel6, 7601,637‡ 768,392 695,306 
Employee commuting8267 ,881 351,260 348,400 
Capital goods6281,092‡271,422 246,076 
Fuel- and energy-related activities947 ,245‡50,821 46,524
Upstream leased assets1039,830‡39,981 45,702
Waste generated in operations113,618‡ 3,702 3,812 
Downstream product transportation12Available 12/2020 65,447‡ 45,850 
Use of sold products13
Direct 168,612 78,051 73,503
Indirect 7 ,248,612 6,894,347 6,260,427
End of life treatment of sold products13209,994 222,404 211,531
GHG emissions intensity ratio (Scope 1 and Scope 2) per revenue  
(MT CO2e/$million)11 13 15
Percentage decrease in GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
per revenue compared to 2010 baseline (MT CO2e /$million)49% 43% 34%Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions3Air Emissions by Category
2019 2018 2017
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP) 
emissions (MT)39.98 30.25 50.14 
Volatile organic compound (VOC) 
emissions (MT)394.07 414.05 607.99 
Particulate matter (PM) emissions (MT) 116.56 247.14 205.22 
Refrigerant emissions (MT) 8.01 7.85 6.12 
Ozone depleting substances 
emissions (MT)1.11 1.53 2.35 
Sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions (MT) 51‡64 99
Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) 
emissions (MT)254‡288 290Our Performance
‡ Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statements by ERM CVS.2017 Health for Humanity Report 95
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 95
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
1. Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson-owned and -leased sites over 50,000 square feet where Johnson & Johnson has operational control, as well as manufacturing and R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise 
noted.
2. Our diverse product portfolio makes it difficult to track an organization-specific metric, therefore we use revenue as denominator for energy intensity. Energy intensity ratio includes electricity, stationary fuels, and district heating and cooling.
3. Selected year 2019 global GHG emissions inventory including Scope 1, Scope 2 (location- and market-based) emissions, Scope 3 emission categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, the percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources, 
and NOx and SOx emissions (from combustion sources) were third-party assured by ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc. Please refer to Independent Assurance Statement for GHG Emissions Data in this Report.
4. In accordance with guidance from World Resources Institute Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, we restated the 2017-2018 values to reflect newly released electricity grid emission factors as well as addition or removal of acquisitions 
and divestitures. This threshold for restatement deviates from the one included in the About this Report section. We do not currently use purchases, sales or transfers of offsets in our GHG accounting. Gases covered in these calculations include 
CO2, CH4, N2O, and HFCs. Perfluorinated chemicals, sulfur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride do not result from our operations. We do not calculate or report biogenic CO2 emissions in MT CO2e separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG 
emissions. Electricity emission factors are obtained from the International Energy Agency’s CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Report and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's eGRID publication for location-based Scope 2 reporting, 
and from supply contracts and residual emission factors, where available, for market-based Scope 2 reporting. Fuel emission factors are obtained from the EPA Climate Leaders publication. Global Warming Potentials are obtained from the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report. The chosen consolidation approach for emissions is operational control. 
5. We did not report Scope 2 emissions using the market-based method prior to 2017. Starting from 2017, we are reporting Scope 2 emissions using both location-based and market-based methods, based on the latest Scope 2 guidance from the 
World Resources Institute in the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
6. Emissions were calculated using Company spend in the reporting year paired with appropriate economic input/output (IO) emission factors from Carnegie Mellon’s 2002 dataset. Where more specific primary data were able to be obtained, they 
were used in place of the IO calculation methodology.
7. Business Travel emissions for reporting year 2017 and 2018 are being restated because of the reclassification of spend into updated categories.
8. Emissions from Employee Commuting were calculated using survey data from a sample of employees in all regions and extrapolated for all global employees. It should be noted that because of the assumptions that were made,  
Johnson & Johnson did not receive third-party limited assurance for this scope, but will work to improve these assumptions in the coming years. 
9. Emissions from Fuel- and Energy-related Activities were calculated for emissions from transportation and distribution losses from purchased electricity. Emissions were calculated by combining purchased electricity with an appropriate emissions 
factor and percentage grid loss for each location. 
10. Emissions from Upstream Leased Assets were calculated by applying the energy intensity from office locations in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 footprint to the building area of leased assets less than 50,000 SqFt, which are excluded from Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 reporting.
11. Emissions from Waste Generated in Operations were calculated for non-hazardous waste from manufacturing and R&D operations using DEFRA's emissions factors for waste. Emissions for 2017-2018 are being restated because of an update in 
calculation methodology.
12. Emissions from Downstream Transportation and Distribution were calculated using the U.S. EPA’s SmartWay Program, and are provided for U.S. shippers only.
13. Emissions from the Use of Sold Products and the End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products were calculated using sales volumes for all Johnson & Johnson products combined with lifecycle assessment (LCA) models where sales volumes could be 
obtained; where they could not be obtained, sales revenues and average unit prices were used to estimate volumes. Because of the size of our product portfolio, LCAs were not performed for every Johnson & Johnson product, so products were 
placed into LCA categories and a representative product LCA was applied. It should be noted that because of the assumptions that were made, Johnson & Johnson did not receive third-party limited assurance for these scopes, but will work 
to improve these assumptions in the coming years.
14. Emissions from the Processing of Sold Products, Downstream Leased Assets, Franchises, and Investments are not applicable to Johnson & Johnson operations.
15. Greenhouse gases covered in these calculations include CO2 only.
16. Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson manufacturing and R&D sites only.Footnotes to Our Performance on Energy Use and GHG Emissions2017 Health for Humanity Report 96
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 96
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Water & Waste Management
GRI 303, 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 306, 306-1, 306-2      SASB: CG-HP-140a.1; CG-HP-140a.2  
At Johnson & Johnson, we aim to minimize our impacts on the 
planet through reducing the use of water and minimizing waste 
generation while engaging in responsible waste management 
practices. See also our Position on Water and Waste 
Management.Water management 
Access to clean water and sanitation is essential for human 
health and wellbeing and, as leaders in healthcare, we are 
committed to conserving water resources wherever we operate. 
We pay particular attention to our operational sites in water-
stressed regions.
Examples of our water conservation and wastewater quality 
improvement initiatives in 2019 include:
Mitigating drought risk in South Africa: Our Consumer Health 
manufacturing facility in Cape Town has been supporting the 
city’s efforts to mitigate drought risk through several water 
security and water saving projects, including the installation 
of air-cooled instead of water-cooled cooling towers. Several 
additional initiatives are planned and slated for implementation 
in 2020.  
Reusing wastewater in Mexico: At our Juarez facility in 
Mexico, we installed a biological treatment plant with a 
capacity of 75m³ per day to give a second life to gray water, 
manufacturing process water, cafeteria food preparation 
process water, and discharge water from organic waste 
processing. The treated water is used for irrigation of green 
areas and donation to the municipal water agency, resulting in 
reuse of 22% of the site’s wastewater. 
Upgrading wastewater treatment in the United States: At 
our Janssen facility in Athens, GA, we initiated a significant 
multi-year investment to upgrade the wastewater treatment at 
the active pharmaceutical ingredient chemical plant, installing 
a membrane bioreactor system to enhance removal efficiencies 
and improve the quality of discharged water.        Highlight
We have decreased global water withdrawal per 
$billion from 0.183 million m3 in 2010 to 0.143 
million m3 in 2019 – a reduction of 22%.
        Highlight
Johnson & Johnson has been a participant in the 
CDP Water Program since its inception in 2010, 
and in 2019, we were named to CDP’s Water 
Security A List, the highest-possible score, for the 
first time.         2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
100% 
We completed the comprehensive water risk 
assessment at 100% of manufacturing/R&D 
locations in 2019.
By the end of 2019, 100% of all high-risk sites 
identified developed mitigation plans and 
budgeted for their implementation in 2020; 35% 
of these have already completed their mitigation 
plans.
        On track               View scorecard2017 Health for Humanity Report 97
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 97
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Water Use SummaryOur Performance
2019 2018 2017
Total water withdrawn (million m3) 11.71 11.64 11.50
Total water consumed (million m3) 4.57 Not reported Not reported
Total water recycled and reused (million m3) 0.81 0.84 0.91
Total water discharge (million m3) 7.9 5 7.69 7.81
Percentage of water withdrawn in regions of 
high or extremely high baseline water stress39% Not reported Not reported
Percentage of water consumed in regions of 
high or extremely high baseline water stress48% Not reported Not reported
Water Withdrawn by Source (million m3)
2019 2018 2017
Municipal 8.68 8.21 8.05 
Groundwater 2.85 3.26 3.28 
Greywater 0.06 0.06 0.05 
Other 0.07 0.06 0.04 
Rainwater 0.03 0.04 0.04 
Surface water 0.02 0.02 0.02 
Total water withdrawn 11.71 11.64 11.50Water Discharge by Destination (million m3)
2019 2018 2017
Wastewater treatment plant 5.46 5.21 5.36 
Surface water 2.12 2.11 2.07 
Irrigation 0.19 0.19 0.22 
Other 0.06 0.10 0.10 
Ocean 0.12 0.08 0.07 
Total water discharge 7.9 5  7.69 7.81 2017 Health for Humanity Report 98
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 98
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Waste management 
We believe that waste is a sign of inefficiency in our value 
chain and places avoidable burden on planetary resources. We 
continue to advance initiatives at our manufacturing plants and 
throughout our supply chain to systematically avoid waste and 
reduce waste to landfill.
Reusing packaging in Brazil: Our Consumer Health facility in 
São Paulo, Brazil, established a take-back and reuse program for 
toiletries’ packaging materials. Working closely with the local 
supplier of cardboard packaging, the design was adapted to 
make the cardboard boxes suitable for return and reuse. This 
initiative resulted in a decrease of more than 240 tons per year 
of cardboard waste. 
Reusing raw materials in Ireland: At our Medical Devices 
manufacturing facility, following targeted efforts, we were able 
to separate two forms of porous titanium powder coatings 
used in the manufacturing of cementless knee and hip 
systems. During our proprietary coating application process, 
these powders become mixed and, if not separated, must be 
disposed of as contaminated waste after use. The new method 
of separation of the two powders enabled us to reduce waste 
of large volumes of titanium powder, a finite resource, thereby 
improving the sustainability of our production process and 
reducing manufacturing waste. Operational Waste (MT)Our Performance
2019 2018 2017
Total waste generated 195,272 194,442 186,475 
Hazardous waste 53,425 52,672 48,743 
Non-hazardous waste 141,848 141,770 137,732 
Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT)
2019 2018 2017
Recycled 25,897 24,652 22,450 
Energy recovery 16,684 16,374 14,395 
Landfilled 3,449 3,462 4,325 
Incinerated 3,373 2,953 3,584 
Reused 1,756 2,758 988 
Bio/chemical 
treatment2,181 2,372 2,901 
Other 86 101 100 
Total hazardous 
waste53,425 52,672 48,743 Non-Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT) 
2019 2018 2017
Recycled 83,118 79,827 75,281 
Energy recovery 20,793 22,356 20,116 
Landfilled 12,512 13,878 15,356 
Incinerated 2,923 4,167 3,893 
Reused 13,282 12,796 10,125 
Bio/chemical 
treatment9,192 8,704 11,079 
Other 28 42 1,883
Total non- 
hazardous waste141,848 141,770 137,732         Highlight
We maintained strong waste management, 
with 83% of our total waste reused, recycled or 
recovered.2017 Health for Humanity Report 99
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 99
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Product Sustainability
GRI J&J19-12
We are committed to developing more sustainable products 
that contribute to a healthier planet. Our approach is 
based on science and a lifecycle accountability for product 
impacts—from discovery and design, raw material sourcing 
and manufacturing to product use and end of life. See also our 
Position on Sustainable Products and Packaging.
Lifecycle assessment with EARTHWARDS
GRI 302-5, J&J19-12      SASB HC-MS-410a.1
Since 2009, we have utilized our EARTHWARDS program to 
encourage the development of more sustainable products 
across seven impact areas. When a product achieves at least 
three significant improvements, a board of external experts 
determines if it warrants EARTHWARDS recognition. Our 
adherence to the EARTHWARDS methodology is audited 
annually by an external verification company.
Examples of newly recognized EARTHWARDS products from 
2019 include:
LISTERINE Mouthwash Concentrated Formulas: We developed 
a concentrated premix of our LISTERINE Mouthwash formulas 
that are sent to local markets to create finished product. Prior 
to this change, finished products were shipped directly from 
one facility in a region to the final destination (for example, 
from Thailand to Japan or from Italy to Russia). Today, we ship 
a concentrated product that is diluted and finished in facilities 
closer to the end markets in North Asia and Russia. These 
changes eliminated more than 60% of greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions from transportation. At the same time, we were able to 
lightweight packaging, reducing plastic usage by 11%.
LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS Shower Gel Concentrates: We 
launched our first concentrated body cleansing gels in six 
sensory variants. With its breakthrough environmental-
friendly formula achieving 98% biodegradability, the product 
range offers consumers the same number of showers from an 
optimized 100 mL bottle as they would get from a conventional 400 mL plastic one. Each bottle of LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS Mon 
Gel Douche Concentré is recyclable, uses 60% less plastic and 
requires 40% less water, benefiting both consumers and the 
environment. 
DePuy Synthes Spine SYMPHONY: The SYMPHONY 
OCT System was designed to optimize and improve the 
instrumentation for posterior cervical fusion (PCF) to address          2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
22% 
New and existing products representing 22% of 
Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved EARTHWARDS 
recognition.   
       Exceeded               View scorecard
the current procedural challenges of aging population, more 
complex cases, and the increasing cost of PCF.
The modular case and tray system allow for a large selection of 
implants and instruments to be brought into the operating room 
without the need for additional cases. This may result in the 
following savings:17 21% less container material to meet patient 
need; 34% reduction in blue wrap required; and 34% less energy 
and water used in sterilization/disinfection of instruments. 
STELARA (ustekinumab) and SIMPONI (golimumab): Early in 
2019, the Johnson & Johnson EARTHWARDS Board recognized 
STELARA and SIMPONI as EARTHWARDS products and 
reconfirmed all dosing forms of these two products. 
The recognition of both products is based on their reduced 
dosing frequency, as compared to competing products18 that 
are addressing the same indication(s), which is resulting in a 
reduced environmental footprint.
A cross-functional team assessed the footprint, which resulted 
in demonstrated, relevant reductions in the use of raw materials, 
packaging and energy required for manufacturing as well as in 
the amount of waste that originates from using these products.26  new products achieved EARTHWARDS 
recognition in 2019
70 EARTHWARDS -recognized products* resulted 
in the following annual impact reductions**:
1,500  MT less material
40,000  liters of water saved
170  MT of waste reduced
39,300  CO2e of GHG emissions avoided
*Products recognized between 2009-2019; excludes products that 
are no longer EARTHWARDS-recognized due to discontinuations, 
divestitures or changes to the product. 
**Savings are for products recognized through the end of 2019 and 
are estimated based on best available methodologies for each impact 
reduction area; select products are not included in savings estimation 
because of lack of detailed data.2017 Health for Humanity Report 100
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 100
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Green chemistry  
Lifecycle assessments of our chemically synthesized active 
pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) usually indicate that their 
environmental footprint is most driven by sourced starting 
materials, building blocks, reagents and solvents.19
While we continue to integrate principles of green chemistry 
and engineering into our product development practices, 
to promote green chemistry and advance environmental 
sustainability with the API suppliers, the Janssen Pharmaceutical 
Companies of Johnson & Johnson also developed a Supplier 
Sustainability Roadmap to collaborate with suppliers and  
drive improvement.
In 2019, we worked with our suppliers involved in the extended 
supply chain of canagliflozin and darunavir to improve their 
synthesis processes by introducing the principle of product mass 
intensity (PMI) and shared best practice tools and resources 
used by the members of the American Chemical Society Green 
Chemistry Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable. By doing so, 
our suppliers could target the process steps that contribute 
largely to the environmental footprint, and objectively measure 
the impacts of any process improvements they made. This has 
led to a significant improvement of our suppliers’ PMIs and has 
reduced process waste and related management costs while 
reducing the environmental impact of our products. 
Sustainable Packaging & Recycling
SASB: HC-MS-410a.1; CG-HP-410a.2
Packaging plays a critical role in maintaining the quality, safety 
and integrity of our products throughout our value chain. In 
addition to complying with packaging regulations in all the 
countries where our products are sold, we are proactive about 
increasing recycled content of packaging and improving 
recyclability of our packaging. In 2019, we progressed several 
initiatives as follows:  Reducing the impact of plastic packaging: Johnson & Johnson 
Consumer Health is a signatory, since 2018, to the New Plastics 
Economy Global Commitment, led by the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation. In 2019, we progressed several initiatives, including 
the publication of multi-year targets for implementing our 
commitment. A few examples include the following:
• Conducted an impact assessment of our Consumer Health 
packaging portfolio and set a 2025 15% recycled content 
target across all plastic packaging by weight. The target 
varies across regions depending on product mix and volumes. 
• Developed plans to launch additional refill packs for LE PETIT 
MARSEILLAIS liquid soaps.
• Set plans to replace non-recyclable film with polyethylene for 
our NEUTROGENA cosmetic wipes by 2021.
• Rolled out an enhanced internal Design for Recyclability 
Policy to relevant product development teams.
First contact lens recycling program in the UK: In 2019, 
Johnson & Johnson Vision launched the ACUVUE Contact Lens 
Recycle Program in the UK, enabling consumers to recycle their 
contact lenses and blister and foil packaging after use. The UK’s 
first free, nationwide recycling program, with 1,200 collection 
points across the country, was created in partnership with 
global recycling organization TerraCycle following our research, 
which showed that 70% of the UK’s 3.7 million contact lens 
wearers weren’t sure they could recycle their contact lenses, 
and that approximately 20% of them admitted to flushing their 
lenses away. After collection, the contact lenses and packaging 
components are separated, shredded and washed, and then 
recycled into new products such as outdoor furniture. Millions 
of pairs of lenses were collected for recycling in the first year of 
the program.          2020 GOAL PROGRESS 
Continued partnerships with two co-ops in Brazil 
and one in India to advance material recovery and 
recycling efforts. 
Concluded the partnership in Vietnam focused on 
ocean plastics through the Consumer Goods Forum 
and Trash Free Seas Alliance. 
        On track               View scorecard
Recycling of single-use medical devices in New Zealand: 
We collaborated with a hospital customer to segregate and 
recycle single-use ETHICON instruments used in surgical 
settings. Following a pilot program from 2018 with the Auckland 
District Health Board, we created a process for collection, 
safe decontamination and breakdown of single-use ETHICON 
devices to channel this waste to appropriate recycling streams, 
avoiding landfill. In the pilot program, more than 90% of product 
by weight was successfully routed for recycling. This program is 
now being introduced in hospitals across New Zealand.2017 Health for Humanity Report 101
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 101
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Partnerships for advancing recycling: In 2019, we engaged 
more broadly with recycling initiatives, for example: 
• We joined the Materials Recovery for the Future Project, a 
collaboration of leading members of the packaging value 
chain in North America committed to developing research 
solutions for recycling flexible packaging curbside, which is 
not typically accepted in recycling programs.
• We continued to fund efforts to advance the recycling 
of plastic squeeze tubes in North America in partnership 
with More Recycling (MORE). Based on MORE’s extensive 
research and testing, in 2019, the Association of Plastic 
Recyclers formed a working group to develop preferred 
plastic specifications for tube design as an important 
practical step toward creating recyclable tubes for everyday 
use in millions of homes.
• We were one of the initial funders of The Recycling 
Partnership’s new Pathway to Circularity initiative. The 
Pathway to Circularity is a roadmap that starts with a stage 
gate process to determine the steps needed for a package 
to reach recyclability. This initiative will outline, address and 
seek to successfully navigate current and future packaging 
recycling system challenges that limit the recycling of 
packaging materials today to make progress toward 
circularity. The initial funding has not only created this stage-
gate process, but also helped launch an industry council to 
gain alignment and consensus needed to realize measurable 
change throughout the packaging industry. 
• We continued our involvement as a founding partner of the 
Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund, a U.S. social impact fund 
that invests in scaling recycling infrastructure and sustainable 
manufacturing technologies to advance a circular economy.
• We maintained CARE TO RECYCLE, our initiative to 
encourage consumers to recycle their personal care 
products. We share tips and practical information for better 
recycling on our website and social media vehicles.
• We continued our involvement as a member of The 
Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council, an initiative helping 
the healthcare industry support recyclability of plastics in 
clinical settings.2.5 million  
medical devices collected and 
1.1 million  
reprocessed in 2019Products in the Environment
SASB HC-MS-410a.2
We recognize that the products we create to help patients, 
doctors and consumers can continue to have environmental 
impacts after use. Whether the product is metabolized and 
excreted, or used and discarded, these actions can have 
environmental impacts. We have a diverse portfolio of products 
and services that have unique impacts at end of life. Therefore, 
we assess the end-of-life impacts of our products and develop 
category-specific action plans to improve performance over 
time. See our Position on Impact of Pharmaceuticals and 
Personal Care Products in the Environment.
Pharmaceutical Products: We continue our work to reduce the 
impact of pharmaceuticals in the environment (PIE). In 2019, we 
completed a multi-year comprehensive assessment of PIE for 
100% of our current pharmaceutical suppliers located in India 
and China. We have also reported our progress on working 
specifically with antibiotics producers globally through the 
Access to Medicine Foundation report on antibiotics, and the 
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & 
Associations report on antibiotics.  
As an active and founding member of the Pharmaceutical Supply 
Chain Initiative, we helped build the capacity of suppliers by 
leading two PIE training sessions in 2019. As an active and 
founding member of the AMR Alliance, we contributed to the 
peer-reviewed publication of a new methodology to determine 
safe levels of antibiotics in the environment, which protects 
against formation of antibiotic resistance. The safe levels we 
contributed for this publication are for Johnson & Johnson’s 
antibiotics. As a group, the AMR Alliance Manufacturing Work 
Group achieved their original four goals aimed at assessing risk, 
developing an assessment framework, advancing science, and 
reporting transparently a year early. For additional information 
on our work on antimicrobial resistance see the section on 
Overcoming Antimicrobial Resistance. Medical Devices: We comply with applicable Extended 
Producer Responsibility regulations in different countries and 
invest in many initiatives for better management of our products 
at end of life. We support voluntary take-back programs, and we 
work with our customers to evaluate opportunities to increase 
the number and quantity of products that can be recycled and 
reprocessed. For example, the Johnson & Johnson Medical 
Devices Companies work with health facilities to collect medical 
devices that otherwise would be immediately bound for landfills 
or incineration, and reprocess those devices so that they can be 
reused by healthcare professionals.2017 Health for Humanity Report 102
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 102
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Data & 
Downloads
2017 Health for Humanity Report 103
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 103
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
GRI Content Index
Download
Data Summary
DownloadUNGC 
Communication on 
Progress
Download
SASB Index
Download2017 Health for Humanity Report 104
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 104
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
About this Report
GRI 102-10, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56
Johnson & Johnson’s 2019 Health for Humanity Report (the 
Report) details our progress in sustainability. It is our primary 
source of annual disclosure on environment, social and 
governance (ESG) performance and should be reviewed in 
conjunction with disclosures on the ESG Policies & Positions  
page. Data in this Report cover the period between January 1, 2019, 
and December 31, 2019, unless otherwise indicated. Reporting 
on other matters specific to financial performance of the 
Company and its subsidiaries can be found in our 2019 Annual 
Report.
This Report covers Johnson & Johnson’s worldwide operations 
across our three business segments: Pharmaceutical, Medical 
Devices and Consumer Health. For select metrics, we report 
segment-level data. Contract manufacturers are excluded from 
the scope of this Report, unless otherwise noted. 
The Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. For the first 
time, it includes the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) Index providing disclosures against relevant SASB 
Standards. The Report also serves as our annual United Nations 
Global Compact Communication on Progress. 
The outcomes of our 2019 Priority Topics Assessment guided 
the Report’s structure and content. 
ERM CVS conducted independent review and assurance of the 
following information and data in the Report (see independent 
assurance statements by ERM CVS):
• Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and 
associated data presented in the   2020 Goals Progress 
Scorecard .
• Progress against United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (UN SDGs)  commitments, and associated data 
presented in the UN SDG Commitment Progress Scorecard.
• Select year 2019 global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
inventory, the percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources, and NOx and SOx emissions (from 
combustion sources). 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) performed limited assurance 
on certain data in the following categories (see PwC's Report of 
Independent Accountants and Management's Assertion):
• Contributions / Philanthropy 
• Diversity & Inclusion (select metrics) 
• Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) Governance
• Employee Retention and Turnover 
• Employee Safety (select metrics)
• Product Quality (select metrics)
Our Corporate Internal Audit reviewed select data for accuracy, 
completeness and validity. The financial data and general 
information about the business in this Report were previously 
audited for disclosure in our 2019 Annual Report.
Acquisitions: EH&S data of recently acquired companies, 
except for employee road safety data and site ISO and OHSAS 
certification data, are included in the Report two years after 
acquisition, unless otherwise noted. This grace period allows the 
new acquisitions to adjust their EH&S management and reporting 
systems to Johnson & Johnson standards. Road safety data 
are integrated the first year after acquisition, where available, 
and two years after acquisition at the latest. ISO and OHSAS 
certification data are integrated three years after acquisition. The 
dates and details of recent acquisitions can be found in Note 20 
(Business Combinations and Divestitures) on page 80 of our 2019 
Annual Report.
Divestitures: Except for injury statistics and violations or fines, 
EH&S data of divested companies are excluded in the reporting 
year.Restatements: We use a 5% change threshold to apply to 
significant changes in data or information that is restated, unless 
otherwise noted. There are a number of potential reasons that 
may lead to a restatement of either prior periods or baseline 
data (e.g. a significant change in newly published measures, 
new acquisitions or divestitures, data errors, or improvements 
in data collection methodology over time). Depending on 
circumstances, each is evaluated using this threshold, and 
appropriate disclosures are included in the Report. Data that 
were not disclosed in prior years are noted as “not reported” in 
relevant tables throughout the Report.
Human Resources Data: These data are based on headcount 
data from Human Resources Information Systems (HRIS). 
HRIS headcount methodology differs from that used for the 
headcount in our Annual Report/Form 10-K, which is based on 
the number of full-time equivalent positions (FTE). HRIS data 
exclude employees on long-term disability. Data may not include 
full population from more recently acquired companies.
We welcome your queries and feedback on this Report. Please 
contact us at WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com.2017 Health for Humanity Report 105
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 105
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Engagement Summary
Scope of our 
assurance 
engagement Whether cumulative 2016 - 2019 progress against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and related Targets 
as reported in the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard (the Scorecard) on pages 10 to 
14 of the Report and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is fairly presented, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the reporting criteria.  
Reporting 
criteria Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets as defined in the Scorecard. World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD)/World Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol for 
Greenhouse Gas emissions. 
Assurance 
StandardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 
3000 Revised).
Assurance level Limited assurance. 
Respective 
responsibilitiesJohnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the Report, including the Scorecard, and for the collection 
and presentation of the assured performance information and data. 
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities 
performed and on exercising our professional judgement. ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was 
engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide limited assurance 
on cumulative progress over 2016 - 2019 against the Health 
for Humanity 2020 Goals reported in the Johnson & Johnson 
2019 Health for Humanity Report (the Report) and on  
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com as set out below. 
Our conclusion
Based on our assurance activities, as described below, nothing 
has come to our attention to indicate that the cumulative 
progress (2016 - 2019) against the Health for Humanity 2020 
Goals and Targets, as reported in the Scorecard on pages 10 to 
14 of the Report and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, is not 
fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the 
reporting criteria.  
Our assurance activities
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the 
information and explanations that we believe were necessary 
to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. During 
this year’s assurance engagement, due to travel restrictions 
following the outbreak of COVID-19, we changed our planned 
head office visit to a ‘virtual’ visit via video/conference calls. 
A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance 
specialists performed assurance procedures as follows:    
• Conference calls with Johnson & Johnson Corporate 
Governance team to discuss, understand, and evaluate 
the systems and processes (including internal review/
audit) used for collecting, consolidating, evaluating and 
reporting the information and data used to report progress 
against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets;Independent Assurance Statement
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress2017 Health for Humanity Report 106
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 106
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
• Conference calls with management representatives 
responsible for each of the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals 
and Targets and the implementation of the related activities 
undertaken in 2019;
• A review of the reporting principles, boundaries, definitions 
and internal guidelines for each of the selected Health for 
Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets;
• A high-level review of the greenhouse gas (GHG) and 
renewable energy data to confirm consistency with the 
findings of our separate GHG and renewable energy 
verification engagement including completeness and 
consistency over time and the restatements of the baseline 
and prior year data;
• A review of samples of underlying documentary evidence 
and data to support the reported cumulative progress for 
each Health for Humanity 2020 Goal and Target, including 
internal and external documents; and
• A review of the presentation of information relevant to the 
scope of our work on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com and in 
the PDF version of the Report to ensure consistency with our 
findings.
The limitations of our engagement
The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent 
uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, 
calculating, or estimating the underlying information. It is 
important to understand our assurance conclusions in this 
context. In addition, the assured information should be read in 
conjunction with the boundary and consolidation policies under 
‘About this Report’ on page 104 and the disclosures provided 
under the column ‘Notable’ in the Scorecard. Regarding the 
formation on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, we provide no 
assurance over any information other than as described in our 
assurance scope above nor on changes to the content of the 
assured information after the date of this assurance statement. 
Our observations
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate 
management report with our detailed findings and 
recommendations.
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
Head of Corporate Assurance 
02 June 2020
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  
www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS 
conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance 
activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and 
implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is 
free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff 
that have undertaken this engagement work have provided no 
consultancy related services to this client in any respect. 2017 Health for Humanity Report 107
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 107
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Engagement Summary
Scope of our 
assurance 
engagement Whether cumulative 2016-2019 progress against the 2020 Targets as reported in the 2019 UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Progress Scorecard on pages 15 to 18 in the Report and on 
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the 
reporting criteria.
Reporting 
criteria The 2020 Targets (under Vision 2030) as described in the Progress Scorecard. 
Assurance 
StandardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 
3000 Revised).
Assurance level Limited assurance. 
Respective 
responsibilitiesJohnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the 
information within it. 
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities 
performed and on exercising our professional judgement. ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was 
engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide limited assurance 
on the cumulative 2016 – 2019 progress against the Company’s 
2020 Targets related to its SDG 2030 Vision and aspirations as 
presented in the Johnson & Johnson 2019 Health for Humanity 
Report (the Report) and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com as 
set out below. 
Our conclusion
Based on our assurance activities, as described below, nothing 
has come to our attention to indicate that the cumulative progress 
(2016 – 2019) against the 2020 SDG Targets as reported in the 
SDG Progress Scorecard on pages 15 to 18 of the Report and on 
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is not fairly presented, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. 
Our assurance activities
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the 
information and explanations that we believe were necessary to 
provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. During this year’s 
assurance engagement, due to travel restrictions following the 
outbreak of COVID-19, we changed our planned head office visit 
to a ‘virtual’ visit via video/conference calls. A multi-disciplinary 
team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed 
assurance procedures as follows:  
• A review of the 2020 SDG goal definitions, underlying 
programs and reporting guidance, where available. 
• Conference calls to:
• interview Johnson & Johnson management 
representatives to understand the 2030 Vision 
strategy and the philosophy behind the goals and 
2020 Targets;Independent Assurance Statement 
UN Sustainable Development Goals Commitment Progress2017 Health for Humanity Report 108
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 108
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
• understand and evaluate the systems and processes 
used to manage the performance commitments, 
related programs and associated partner 
organisations, and monitor progress against these; 
• interview goal owners and business unit 
representatives involved in collecting, evaluating and 
reporting progress against the 2020 Targets.   
• Interviews with selected Johnson & Johnson partners 
responsible for delivering programs and providing the data 
used to report the 2016 to 2019 progress towards the 2020 
Targets.  
• A review of completeness and the consolidation of the 
program results for 2016 to 2019 for each Target in order 
to reduce the risk of double counting and to understand 
assumptions as well as overlaps with some of the  
Johnson & Johnson Health for Humanity 2020 Goals for 
which we undertook a separate assurance engagement.  
• A review of the explanatory notes in the ‘Notables’ column 
in the SDG Progress Scorecard and in the section on ‘The 
Challenges of reporting and assuring progress against the 
SDG goals’ to ensure consistency with our findings. 
The limitations of our engagement  
The reliability of the assured information is subject to  
inherent uncertainties, given the nature of the ambitious 
Johnson & Johnson aspirations and Ttargets and the 
dependence on partner organisations to deliver programs 
and provide performance information, as well as the use of 
estimates, assumptions and extrapolations to report progress. 
Johnson & Johnson describes these uncertainties in the 
‘Challenges of reporting and assuring progress against the SDG 
goals’ on page 18 of the Report. It is important to understand our 
assurance conclusions in this context. Regarding the information 
on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, we provide no assurance 
over changes to the content of the web-based information after 
the date of this assurance statement. 
Our observations 
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate 
management report with our detailed findings and 
recommendations.
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
Head of Corporate Assurance 
02 June 2020
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  
www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that 
ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent 
assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes 
are designed and implemented to ensure that the work 
we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of 
interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken 
this engagement work have provided no consultancy related 
services to this client in any respect. 2017 Health for Humanity Report 109
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 109
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Engagement Summary
Scope of our 
assurance 
engagement Whether the corporate 2019* data for the following selected indicators are fairly presented, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria:
• Total absolute Scope 1 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of CO2e
• Total absolute Scope 2 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of CO2e reported using the location 
based and market based methods
• Total absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of CO2e for the following categories:
•        Purchased goods and services
•    Capital goods
•  Fuel and energy related activities (Transmission and distribution losses (T&D) losses only)
•    Upstream transportation and distribution
•    Waste generated in operations (Non-hazardous waste only)
•    Business Travel
•    Upstream Leased Assets
•    Downstream transportation and distribution for US operations (from the EPA SmartWay 
program for the year ending 31st December 2018)
•      Total NOx and SOx from facility combustion sources in metric tonnes (MT)
•      Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources
Reporting 
criteria The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
Johnson & Johnson’s internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other metrics.
Assurance 
StandardERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 
3000 (Revised). 
Assurance level Limited assurance
Respective 
responsibilitiesJohnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in the Report to 
third parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.  
ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities 
performed and exercising our professional judgement.ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was 
engaged by Johnson and Johnson to provide assurance in 
relation to the information set out below and presented on 
pages 13, and 94 to 95 in the Johnson & Johnson 2019 Health for 
Humanity Report (the Report) and on  healthforhumanityreport.
jnj.com as set out below.
Our conclusion
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to 
indicate that the following selected 2019* corporate metrics are 
not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the Reporting 
Criteria. This conclusion is to be read in the context of the 
remainder of this report, in particular the information in the 
emphasis of matter and inherent limitations paragraphs below.
Scope 1 GHG emissions: 415,094 MT CO2e    
Scope 2 GHG (location-based) emissions: 648,598 MT CO2e 
Scope 2 GHG (market-based) emissions: 518,542 MT CO2e
Scope 3 GHG emissions for the following categories: 
 Independent Assurance Statement 
GHG Emissions Data
•     Purchased goods and services 9,229,943 MT CO2e
•     Capital goods 281,092 MT CO2e
•     Fuel and energy related activities  
       (Transmission and distribution  
       losses only)47 ,245 MT CO2e
•     Upstream transportation and  
       distribution2,201,590 MT CO2e
•     Waste generated in operations  
       (Non-hazardous waste only)3,618 MT CO2e
•     Business Travel 601,637 MT CO2e
* 2018 for Scope 3 Downstream transportation and distribution2017 Health for Humanity Report 110
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 110
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
 
NOx from combustion sources: 254 MT
SOx from combustion sources: 51 MT
Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy 
sources: 30%
Emphasis of matter
Without affecting our conclusion, which is not modified,  
we draw attention to the explanatory notes provided by 
Johnson & Johnson relating to the data on page 94 of the 
Report, in particular the limitations relating to the data for the 
Scope 3 categories 5 and 9 on page 95 of the Report which 
should be read in conjunction with the data. 
Our assurance activities  
Our objective was to assess whether the assured emission data 
are reported in accordance with the principles of completeness, 
comparability (across the organisation) and accuracy (including 
calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and 
consolidation). We planned and performed our work to obtain 
all the information and explanations that we believe were 
necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. We 
applied a 5% material error threshold. 
A team of GHG and assurance specialists performed the 
following key activities: 
• Virtual interviews with relevant staff to understand 
internal reporting processes, including the use of its GHG 
Management Plan, internal spreadsheets, and its various 
internal data management and reporting systems;• A review of samples of primary data such as invoices;
• A review of the calculations undertaken, including conversion 
factors and emission factors used; 
• A review of estimates, extrapolations and assumptions made 
in relation to the data for relevant GHG Scope 3 categories; 
and
• An analytical review of the consolidated year end data for 
each metric.
The limitations of our engagement  
The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent 
uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, 
calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is 
important to understand our assurance conclusions in this 
context. Our work was undertaken remotely. We did not 
undertake source data verification at any operated facilities. 
Our independent assurance statement provides no assurance on 
the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls 
used to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may 
have occurred to the information since it was first published.
Our observations 
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate 
management report with our detailed (non-material) findings 
and recommendations. Without affecting the conclusions 
presented above, we have the following key observation:
• Johnson & Johnson should document both qualitatively 
and quantitatively their uncertainty information for each 
GHG Scope 3 category, and describe their efforts to record 
uncertainty in future revisions of the Scope 3 emissions 
inventory. 
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
Head of Corporate Assurance 
02 June 2020
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  
www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS 
conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance 
activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and 
implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is 
free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff 
that have undertaken this engagement work have provided no 
consultancy related services to this client in any respect. •     Upstream Leased Assets 39,830 MT CO2e
•     Downstream transportation and  
       distribution (from the EPA  
       SmartWay program)65,447 MT CO2e2017 Health for Humanity Report 111
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 111
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Report of Independent Accountants
 
To the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson
We have reviewed the accompanying Johnson & Johnson management assertion, that the metrics identified in the Schedule of Metrics in 
management’s assertion as of December 31, 2019 or for the year then ended, are presented in conformity with the assessment criteria set 
forth in management’s assertion.
Johnson & Johnson’s management is responsible for its assertion and for the selection of the criteria, which management believes provide an 
objective basis for measuring and reporting on the metrics. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on management’s assertion based on 
our review.
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
(“AICPA”) in AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review Engagements. Those 
standards require that we plan and perform the review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made 
to management’s assertion in order to be fairly stated. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. 
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion.
In performing our review, we have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Professional Conduct 
issued by the AICPA.
We applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive system of 
quality control.
The preparation of the metrics requires management to establish the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy of information to be 
included, and make assumptions that affect reported information. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement 
techniques could result in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to management’s assertion referred to above in 
order for it to be fairly stated.
June 11, 2020 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 400 Campus Drive, Florham Park, NJ 07932  |  www.pwc.com
2017 Health for Humanity Report 112
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 112
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
Johnson & Johnson Management Assertion
Johnson & Johnson (“management”) is responsible for the completeness, accuracy, and validity of the accompanying 
metrics reported in the Health for Humanity Report as of December 31, 2019 or for the year then ended (the reporting 
year) for global operations, unless otherwise noted within management’s criteria. 
With respect to the metrics reported in the table below, which are also included in the Health for Humanity Report, 
management of Johnson & Johnson asserts that such metrics are presented in conformity with the assessment criteria 
set forth below. The metrics included in the table below have been rounded to the nearest whole number unless 
otherwise indicated. Management is responsible for the selection or development of the criteria, which management 
believes provide an objective basis for measuring and reporting on the selected metrics. 
The preparation of the metrics requires management to establish the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy 
of information to be included, and make assumptions that affect reported information. The selection by management 
of different but acceptable measurement techniques could result in materially different amounts or metrics being 
reported.
 
Schedule of MetricsAs of December 31, 2019 or for the year then ended
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Contributions/Philanthropy Total cash and products contributed 
globally (millions)$1,806 Contributions are cash or product donations made to qualified nonprofit 
entities (i.e., 501(c)(3) organizations in the U.S., or with an NGOsource 
501(c)(3) equivalency determination for organizations outside the U.S.) 
by Johnson & Johnson during the reporting year.
Product donations are measured at fair market value  
(defined as the selling price of a product as determined by an internal 
Johnson & Johnson price list in USD as of December 31, 2019), which is 
the price Johnson & Johnson would sell to consumers on the market. 
Metric values are represented in millions of USD. Cash contributed globally (millions) $423
Products contributed globally (millions) $1,3832017 Health for Humanity Report 113
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 113
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) 
& General WorkforceTotal number of employees (i.e., Global 
Workforce)137,701 
Women: 47.8%Global Workforce is the global employee headcount as of December 31, 
2019, excluding employees on long term disability (LTD) as of December 
31, 2019 and employees of acquired companies who are not yet reflected 
in the Johnson & Johnson Human Resources Information Systems 
(HRIS) (which does not exceed 2 years from the date of acquisition). This 
data is based on headcount from the HRIS. HRIS headcount differs from 
that used for the headcount in Johnson & Johnson's Form 10-K, which is 
based on the number of full-time equivalent positions (FTE).
An employee is defined as an individual working full-time or part-
time, including fixed term employees, interns and co-op employees. 
Contingent workers, contractors, and subcontractors are excluded.
An individual working full-time is defined as an employee working 40 
hours or more a week. An individual working part-time is defined as an 
employee working less than 40 hours a week.
Gender and ethnic/racial diversity is reported in accordance with the 
gender, ethnicity and race as self-reported by the employee and recorded 
in HRIS as of December 31, 2019. 
Age diversity is reported by age groups as of December 31, 2019 as self-
reported by the employee and recorded in HRIS. 
For job category metrics, the job category (i.e., vice president, manager 
and directors, or professionals), is obtained from HRIS as of December 
31, 2019. Other is defined as employees who self-reported as American 
Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander or 
two or more races.Total Number of Employees by Region Asia Pacific: 28,195 
Europe, Middle East & Africa: 42,582 
Latin America: 20,182 
North America: 46,742
Gender Diversity by Employment Type Full-time employees  
Women: 46.7% 
Part-time employees  
Women: 82.6%
Gender Diversity by Region Asia Pacific: Women: 46.0%
Europe, Middle East & Africa: Women: 49.7% 
Latin America: Women: 50.2% 
North America: Women: 46.1% 
Gender Diversity by Job Category Vice Presidents: Women: 34.2%
Managers and Directors: Women: 46.2% 
Professionals: Women: 49.5% 2017 Health for Humanity Report 114
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 114
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) 
& General WorkforceAge Diversity by Job Category Vice Presidents  
Under 30: 0% 
30-50: 46.3%  
50+: 53.7%
Managers and Directors  
Under 30: 1.3%  
30-50: 73.2%  
50+: 25.6%
Professionals  
Under 30: 21.4%  
30-50: 61.7%  
50+: 16.9%For women in executive positions, executives are defined as employees 
reporting directly to the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
Officer based on an organization chart including names and positions as 
of December 31, 2019.
For women in management positions, the pay grades are obtained from 
HRIS as of December 31, 2019. Pay grade 30 and above is considered a 
management position.
For new employee hire metrics, new employee hires are external hires 
with a start date between January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019 per 
HRIS.
Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S. by 
Job CategoryManagers and Directors  
Asian: 16.6%   
Black/African American: 5.0%   
Hispanic/Latino: 7.0%   
Other: 1.2%   
Professionals  
Asian: 12.0%   
Black/African American: 7.6%   
Hispanic/Latino: 10.4%   
Other: 2.0%   
Diversity in the Board Composition Women: 28.6%  
Ethnic/Racial Diversity: 21.4%
Gender Diversity in Executive and 
Management Positions Women in executive positions: 14.3%  
Women in management positions: 45.8%
Total Number of New Employee Hires 21,948 
New Employee Hires by Gender Women: 51.4% 2017 Health for Humanity Report 115
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 115
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) 
& General WorkforceNew Employee Hires by Age Under 30: 52.7%
30-50: 42.8%
50+: 4.5%
New Employee Hires by Region Asia Pacific: 28.9% 
Europe, Middle East & Africa: 27.0% 
Latin America: 16.5% 
North America: 27.6%2017 Health for Humanity Report 116
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 116
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Environmental Health & 
Safety (EH&S) GovernanceNumber of environmental non-
compliances61 Environmental non-compliances represent instances of non-compliance 
with environmental regulatory requirements or laws that were either 
(i) self-reported to authorities in the reporting year or (ii) identified by 
authorities and the non-compliance occurred in the reporting year. The 
authorities include regional, national, state/country/province, and local/
city regulatory agencies.  
Fines paid for environmental non-compliances include those paid in 
the reporting year. It does not include fines assessed and/or under 
negotiation that were not paid.
Environmental non-compliances and fines paid exclude newly acquired 
sites (i.e., owned less than 2 years as of December 31, 2019).
Metric values (fines and/or penalties) are represented in thousands of 
USD.Fines paid for environmental non-
compliances (thousands)$41
Number of manufacturing and R&D 
sites certified to ISO 14001100 OHSAS is the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series.
Certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 means the site has 
received an external certification that is valid as of December 31, 2019.
Small research & development (R&D) and manufacturing sites,  
defined as having less than 50 employees, are exempt from the  
Johnson & Johnson internal requirement to have ISO 14001 
(Environmental Management) certification. Newly acquired sites (i.e., 
owned less than 3 years as of December 31, 2019) are also exempt 
from the internal Johnson & Johnson requirement to have ISO 14001 
certification. 
Total number of R&D and manufacturing sites used in the numerator 
and denominator is based on the sites Johnson & Johnson internally 
requires to have ISO 14001 certification.Percentage of manufacturing and R&D 
sites certified to ISO 1400197%
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D 
sites certified to OHSAS 18001 or ISO 
4500124%2017 Health for Humanity Report 117
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 117
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Employee Retention & 
TurnoverJohnson & Johnson employees involved 
in R&D activities17.6% R&D activities include employees classified under job functions of R&D 
and Engineering in HRIS as of December 31, 2019.
Employee count used in the denominator is consistent with the Global 
Workforce number used for D&I metrics above. 
Managers and above moved across 
functions, country or business segment 
lines, building diversity of experiences43% The metric represents the percentage of employees in Manager and 
above job categories (defined as pay grade 30 or above in HRIS as of 
December 31, 2019) who moved across function, country or business 
segment lines within Johnson & Johnson during the reporting year 
(includes upward promotion, downward demotion, or lateral transfer).
Employee count excludes fixed term, intern, co-op employees, employees 
classified as being on long-term disability, and employees of acquired 
companies who are not yet reflected in HRIS.
Employee movement is tracked monthly and then consolidated at year 
end. If an employee moves across both function and country in the same 
month, it is only counted as one move.
Overall voluntary turnover 8% Employee count excludes fixed term, intern, co-op employees, employees 
classified as being on long-term disability, and employees of acquired 
companies who are not yet reflected in HRIS. Employee count does 
not include employees that were hired and terminated within the same 
month. Employees who are not part of the performance management 
process are excluded from the voluntary turnover of high performers 
metric. Voluntary turnover excludes employees leaving the company due 
to retirement or death.
For overall voluntary turnover, the total employee count used in the 
denominator is the total employee count average of the twelve months in 
2019. For voluntary turnover of high performers, the denominator is the 
total high performers average of 12/31/2019 and 12/31/2018.
High performer is defined as an individual with two consecutive annual 
performance ratings of Exceeds/Exceeds, Exceeds/Fully Meets, or Fully 
Meets/Exceeds ratings (note that "exceeds" is one out of 4 possible 
dimension ratings).Voluntary turnover of high performers 4%2017 Health for Humanity Report 118
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 118
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Employee Safety Lost Workday Case (LWDC) rate Global: 0.07
Asia Pacific: 0.06
Europe, Middle East & Africa: 0.05
Latin America: 0.06
 North America: 0.08Includes data as of December 31, 2019 and hours worked in the reporting 
year. Newly acquired sites (i.e. owned less than 2 years as of December 
31, 2019) are excluded from occupational safety metrics.
LWDC rate, TRIR, SIIC rate, and fatalities are calculated using the Global 
Workforce and any contingent workers (i.e. workers supplied by third 
party agencies that are the worker’s employer of record) are intended to 
supplement or temporarily replace existing workforce and are directly 
supervised by a Johnson & Johnson employee. Cases from contractor/ 
subcontractors (who are not contingent workers) are not included.
“Lost Workdays” are calendar days where an employee is unable to work 
due to illness or injury, beginning the day after an incident has taken 
place through the last day of leave (excluding holidays and vacations). 
LWDC rate: (number of LWDC * 200,000 work hours) / total work 
hours per the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system.
TRIR: (number of recordable cases * 200,000 work hours) / total work 
hours.
SIIC rate: (number of SIIC * 200,000 work hours) / total work hours.Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) Global: 0.31
Asia Pacific: 0.12 
Europe, Middle East & Africa: 0.27
Latin America: 0.25
North America: 0.42
Serious Injury and Illness Case (SIIC) 
rateGlobal: 0.04 
Asia Pacific: 0.04 
Europe, Middle East & Africa: 0.03 
Latin America: 0.02 
North America: 0.06
Number of fatalities Global: 02017 Health for Humanity Report 119
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 119
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
METRIC TOPIC METRIC DESCRIPTION METRIC VALUE MANAGEMENT'S CRITERIA
Product Quality Number of regulatory inspections of 
Johnson & Johnson sites by worldwide 
health authorities521 Health authorities are organizations with authority over the 
development, manufacture, distribution, placing on the market, and post 
market surveillance of products. For example, the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA), Korean Food and Drug Administration (KFDA), 
British Standards Institution (BSI), and Health Canada.
A regulatory inspection is defined as an inspection conducted by the 
health authority to determine compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations.
An FDA inspection is defined as a regulatory inspection performed by the 
FDA, and an observation is defined as the observed condition or practice 
indicating that an FDA-regulated product may be in violation of FDA’s 
requirements. The observations are listed on FDA Form 483 during 
inspections conducted by FDA, and then provided to the manufacturer 
following the FDA inspection.
Independent audits are conducted by internal Johnson & Johnson 
Regulatory Compliance (JJRC) auditors at Johnson & Johnson sites and 
external manufacturing sites.
An external manufacturing site is defined as not owned or operated by 
Johnson & Johnson.Percentage of inspections that resulted 
in zero observations73%
Number of FDA inspections of  
Johnson & Johnson sites17
Percentage of FDA inspections that 
resulted in zero observations76%
Average number of observations per 
FDA inspection0.6
Number of independent audits of 
Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure 
compliance with Johnson & Johnson 
Quality Policy & Standards156
Number of independent audits of 
external manufacturing sites to ensure 
compliance with Johnson & Johnson 
Quality Policy & Standard264
Number of FDA Warning Letters 
issued, total for enterprise12017 Health for Humanity Report 120
 2019 Health for Humanity Report 120
About Johnson & Johnson Our Approach Better Health for All Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Data & Downloads
References
1  Imbokodo is supported by a public-private partnership led by Janssen Vaccines & Prevention B.V., the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN), and by other  
 additional partners.
2  https:/ /www.unaids.org/sites/default/files/media_asset/2019-UNAIDS-data_en.pdf , p.18
3  https:/ /www.who.int/en/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/influenza (seasonal)
4   https:/ /www.who.int/hepatitis/news-events/hbv-cure-overview/en/
5  https:/ /www.jnj.com/innovation/meet-janssen-researcher-working-on-human-e-coli-vaccine
6  https:/ /www.weforum.org/agenda/2019/01/three-ways-to-mobilize-for-mental-health/
7   https:/ /www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/mental-disorders
8   https:/ /www.holmusk.com/research/#news-holmusk-janssen-china-mental-health-mou
9  https:/ /www.healthpolicy-watch.org/no-time-to-wait-amr-could-cause-10-million-deaths-annually-by-2050-warns-un-report/
10  The large increase in 2019 was attributed to a one-time donation of ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN to Direct Relief that was distributed in support of the Syrian Refugee Crisis.
11  Includes employees classified under job functions of R&D and Engineering.
12  National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Respiratory syncytial virus. Available at: https:/ /www.niaid.nih.gov/diseases-conditions/respiratory-syncytial-virus-rsv . Last accessed: September 2019.
13  According to PitchBook Search of CVC Investors Disclosed Healthcare Deals from Nov 1, 2018 – Oct 31, 2019.
14  Represents the proportion of employees in Manager and above job categories who in their career progression movement (including upward promotion, downward demotion, or lateral transfer) crossed function, country or  
 business segment lines.
15  Contingent workers (i.e. workers supplied by third party agencies that are the worker’s employer of record) are intended to supplement or temporarily replace existing workforce and are directly supervised by a  
  Johnson & Johnson employee. 
16  https:/ /c40-production-images.s3.amazonaws.com/other_uploads/images/2022_TOWARD_A_HEALTHIER_WORLD.original.pdf?1543934003
17  Adaptiv #103669830
18  STELARA as compared to ENBREL™ and HUMIRA™. SIMPONI as compared to REMICADE, ENBREL™ and HUMIRA™.
19  Geert Van Der Vorst et al., "Green Chemistry," February 2013,15, 744 – 748.2019 Health for Humanity Report 
Progress in Sustainability
Contact us:
WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza 
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com  
jnj.com