FY2018 Sustainability Report 2With each new day, we have an opportunity to make a difference for  our customers and their patients, and for the communities in which we  operate and serve.
Every day also provides the opportunity to make  a difference by reducing our environmental impact to supporting the  potential of all our associates working around the world.
At the end of 2017 we welcomed C.
R.
Bard to the BD family, bringing  new talent and capabilities to enable BD to elevate beyond a trusted  innovator and supplier into a true partner of choice for the healthcare  industry.
BD and Bard are uniquely positioned with unmatched breadth,  depth and capabilities to be an indispensable partner to hospitals and  health systems to improve both the treatment of disease for patients  and the process of care for healthcare providers.
New capabilities, new  call points, new opportunities.
I am pleased to share the progress we are making toward our 2020  Sustainability Goals.
These goals provide the framework for how  we manage—and make an impact on—the most relevant social  and environmental issues for our company.
We remain focused  on supporting priority health needs that are aligned with the U.N.  Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), and contribute to the SDGs  through our collaboration with the public and nonprofit sectors across  the four key areas that comprise our 2020 Goals—innovation, access,  efficiency and empowerment.
Innovation Our new product innovation is continuing to fuel growth.
From the new  BD Alaris™ infusion system and BD HealthSight™ integrated platform  in our Medical segment, to new molecular diagnostic capabilities for  the BD MAX™ platform and continued expansion of our BD Horizon  Brilliant™ dyes portfolio in Life Sciences, and improving blood flow  through LUTONIX™ AV catheters and Covera™ stent grafts in the  Interventional segment, we saw 25 major product launches in FY2018.
While we have even more major launches planned for FY2019, we will  continue our work to tackle some of the largest challenges in healthcare.
This includes cybersecurity, through the BD® Product Security Partnership  program, which emphasizes collaboration across the industry to  enhance cybersecurity of medical technology and devices.
Access We continue to partner and collaborate with public and nonprofit  organizations around the world to address priority health needs.
We’re  partnering with Project HOPE in China and with PEPFAR, CDC and  the ministry of health in Kenya to tackle infection prevention; and  expanding our existing partnership with United States Agency for  International Development (USAID) to address drug-resistant TB in  Indonesia and India.
The team also celebrated a decade of partnerships with PEPFAR and  U.S. CDC through the Labs for Life collaboration that helps address HIV/ AIDS and the Global Health Security Agenda by improving diagnostic  laboratory capabilities in developing countries.
We are also accelerating our efforts to combat antimicrobial resistance  (AMR) through prevention, diagnostics and surveillance, while leading a global awareness campaign to recognize the efforts of the many AMR  fighters across the world.
Efficiency We continue to make progress against our efficiency targets, making  gains in the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, waste  generation and water consumption.
We also look to the future, building  resilience in our global operations by continuing our commitment  to renewable energy, including installation of on-site solar power  generation at our facilities in Canaan, Connecticut and Eysins,  Switzerland.
Our commitment to transparency on our environmental performance  was also demonstrated through our continued participation in the  Chemical Footprint Project and the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon  Disclosure Project).
Empowerment As we welcomed new associates from Bard, we have further  strengthened our commitment to Inclusion & Diversity.
We appointed  a worldwide Vice President of Inclusion and Diversity and established  a Global Inclusion Council that is composed of leaders from every  business, region and function—and of which I’m proud to be the  Executive Sponsor.
We were proud to continue our innovative program to support some  of the most vulnerable patients in the United States by awarding five  community health centers a total of $1 million in grant funding, as part  of the BD® Helping Build Healthy Communities program.
A new day While there is much to be proud of in FY2018, we face each day as  a new opportunity to build on our past and redefine the future of  healthcare.
This will include work on redefining our sustainability  strategy centered upon our most relevant ESG issues and setting  new ambitious goals that will not only ensure resilience over the  long term but will also consider the expectations of our stakeholders  around the world.
With each new day, BD is rising to accept the challenges of the complex  global healthcare landscape.
We are proud of and inspired by our role  in the healthcare ecosystem and humbled to serve the caregivers,  researchers and other healthcare professionals who serve patients all  around the world.
I am pleased to share our progress thus far and look forward to  working with you—our stakeholders—as we continue advancing the  world of health.
Vincent A.
Forlenza Chairman, CEO and Presiden t Sincerely,   Vincent A.
Forlenza Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerTo our stakeholders3About this report This report provides an update of our global environmental,  social and governance (ESG) performance against our 2020  goals, during our fiscal year 2018 (October 1, 2017, to September  30, 2018) for Becton, Dickinson and Company (also known as  “BD”) and our subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.
We report annually on our sustainability performance and  published our last report, which highlighted progress made in  fiscal year 2017, in July 2018 and republished in August 2018 to  reflect updates to our Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions.
In December 2017, BD acquired C.R. Bard (“Bard”), a leading  multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer of  innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields of  vascular, urological, oncological and surgical specialty products.
Since the integration of Bard and BD systems is ongoing,  we are not yet able to publish Bard data in several of our key  performance indicators.
Throughout this report, we will clearly  identify whether any data we provide includes or excludes  this information.
We expect to provide Bard data in our next  reporting cycle.
This report contains standard disclosures from the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
While this report is not intended to meet the requirements of  the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, reference numbers  for Standard Disclosures have been included where full or partial  information has been provided.
Data in this report has not been externally assured.
Reporting and performance data includes information on our  owned and operated facilities.
We have processes in place  to ensure that reporting on key sustainability performance  indicators is as accurate and robust as possible, and we  continually work to improve them.
In addition to providing an update on our performance against  the 2020 sustainability goals and context around each goal, this  report also includes details about key ESG factors relevant to  our business.
We seek feedback from stakeholders each year, which informs  our selection of content for sustainability reporting.
You can  contact us via email at BD_Sustainability_Office@BD.com.
Our previous sustainability report is available at bd.com/ Sustainability.
GRI disclosure: 102-10, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-4About BD BD is one of the largest global medical technology companies  in the world and is advancing the world of health by improving  medical discovery, diagnostics and the delivery of care.
The  company supports the heroes on the frontlines of healthcare  by developing innovative technology, services and solutions  that help advance both clinical therapy for patients and clinical  process for healthcare providers.
BD and its 65,000 employees  have a passion and commitment to help enhance the safety and  efficiency of clinicians' care delivery process, enable laboratory  scientists to accurately detect disease and advance researchers'  capabilities to develop the next generation of diagnostics and  therapeutics.
BD has a presence in virtually every country and  partners with organizations around the world to address some  of the most challenging global health issues.
By working in close collaboration with customers, BD can help enhance outcomes,  lower costs, increase efficiencies, improve safety and expand  access to healthcare.
In 2017, BD welcomed C.
R.
Bard and its  products into the BD family.
For more information on BD (including our products and brands),  please visit bd.com BD is headquartered in Franklin Lakes, NJ, and serves over  190 countries.
Further details about BD (including location of operations and  direct economic impact generated and distributed) can be found  in our 2018 10-k filing.
GRI disclosure: 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 201-BD corporate headquarters, Franklin Lakes, NJ.About our businesses The BD Medical segment  focuses on providing innovative solutions to  reduce the spread of infection, enhance  diabetes treatment, advance drug delivery,  improve surgical procedures and provide  effective and safe medication management.
Customers served include hospitals and  clinics; physicians; governmental and public  health agencies; healthcare workers; retail  pharmacies; pharmaceutical and biotech  companies; and consumers.
The BD Life Sciences  segment  delivers innovative solutions  from discovery to diagnosis, continually  advancing science and clinical outcomes  across infectious disease and cancer.
Offerings include preanalytical solutions   for sample management; immunology  research solutions, including flow cytometry  and multiomics tools; microbiology and  molecular diagnostics; lab automation   and informatics solutions; and differentiated  reagents and assays.
Customers served  include research institutions, industrial   and reference laboratories; blood banks;  hospitals and clinics; alternate site  healthcare; public health agencies;  academic and government institutions; and  pharmaceutical and biotech companies.
The BD Interventional  segment  focuses on developing  innovative surgical, endovascular,   urological and critical care interventions   that not only meet clinical needs but also  deliver value to health systems and improve  patients’ lives.
Customers served include  hospitals and clinics; physicians; ambulatory  surgery centers; nurses; and consumers.
Phasix™ ST Mesh Arctic Sun™  Temperature  Management  SystemSample products: BD Alaris™ Infusion SystemBD Hypak™  Glass  Prefillable  Syringes Sample products: BD Vacutainer® Blood  Collection TubesBD FACSLyric™ Flow Cytometry System BD Kiestra™ Lab  Automation SolutionsBD MAX™ Open  System Reagent SuiteSample products:BD MaxZero™  Needle-Free  Connector BD Nano™   4mm Pen Needle Lutonix™ 035 Drug Coated  Balloon PTA Catheter LifeStent™  Vascular   Stent System GRI disclosure: 102-2, 102-66Company structure BD is structured to serve customers with unique solutions.
The data below represents the Company structure for FY2018.
102-6, 102-            Revenue by geography (billions of dollars)  United States $8.Other (Canada, Latin America and EMA, which includes the   Commonwealth of Independent States, Middle East and Africa) $1.5 Europe $3.3 Greater Asia $2.$3.6$2.5$1.1$1.$1.$1.$1.$0.8$1.0$1.Medication Delivery Solutions    Urology and Critical CarePeripheral  InterventionSurgeryMedication Management  Solutions   Diabetes CarePharmaceutical  SystemsPreanalytical  Systems Diagnostic  Systems Biosciences $16.Total BD revenueRevenue by segment (billions of dollars) Values in this exhibit reflect rounded  numbers and include Bard.$4.BD Life   Sciences $3.BD  Interventional$8.BD  Medical7Value chain profile BD has more than 500 core suppliers that provide key  materials, including plastics, glass, metals, textiles, electronic  and mechanical subassemblies, and various paper, agricultural,  biological, chemical and petrochemical products.Our more than 86,000 products are manufactured and sold  worldwide.
They are marketed in the United States and  internationally, through independent distribution channels and  directly to end users, by BD and independent sales representatives.
GRI disclosure: 102-6Customers served BD Medical BD Life Sciences BD Interventional Hospitals • • • Clinics • • • Laboratories • Physicians' office practices • • • Consumers and retail pharmacies • • Government agencies • • • Academic and government institutions • • Public health agencies • • Nonprofit public health agencies • • Blood banks • Pharmaceutical companies • • Biotechnology companies • • • Healthcare workers • • • Ambulatory surgical centers •8How we do business Ethics and compliance We are committed to a strong ethics and compliance culture.
We do not tolerate actions or behaviors that are inconsistent  with our values or violate the BD Code of Conduct or applicable  laws and regulations.
All BD associates are responsible for  reinforcing our ethics and compliance culture and sustaining  our reputation as a Company dedicated to quality and integrity.
We encourage and expect everyone at BD to speak up by asking  questions, raising concerns, seeking guidance and reporting  actual or suspected violations of laws, our Code of Conduct,  our policies or our high ethical standards.
This requirement  extends to all associates, vendors and other third parties  working on our behalf.The BD Values further strengthen our culture of ethics and  compliance and guide how we hold ourselves accountable to our  shareholders and stakeholders.
• We do what is right.
• We are authentic.
• We are all accountable.
• We improve every day.
• We help each other be great.
These values are cascaded through all levels of the organization.
Further information about our commitment to ethics and  compliance can be found on our website at bd.com/Investors/ Corporate_Governance GRI disclosure: 102-Code of Conduct The BD Code of Conduct sets the foundation for how we behave  at BD.
The value “We do what is right” is the cornerstone of our  code.
To do what is right, we follow the laws, rules and Company  policies that apply to us.
We also follow the highest ethical  standards, even when there’s no specific law or policy.
Our code  provides guidance and resources to help us follow through on  these ethical standards and protect our reputation.Everyone at BD—from directors to officers and associates— must follow our code.
It applies equally to everyone, no matter  their position or level.
This is a condition of employment at BD.
The BD code is available in English and 20 other languages.
All associates are required to complete training on our  code annually.
Our Code of Conduct is available at bd.com/en-us/company/ about-bd/bd-code-of-conduct GRI disclosure: 102-Antibribery and anticorruption The antibribery and anticorruption program helps keep  associates pointed in the right direction.
In support of the  program, the Ethics & Compliance function provides resources  to regional and local country management to enhance their  anticorruption and compliance business practices.
This includes  incorporating compliance requirements into existing business  practices and advising local management on anticorruption  compliance-related issues.
A key focus for BD is driving compliance in our distributor  networks across the globe, resulting in stronger business  relationships while upholding our reputation.
The antibribery and anticorruption program is advanced by  fostering collaboration with business leaders to deliver consistent  and clear policies and approval processes—along with enhancedthird-party due diligence procedures—to help provide assurance  that BD is “winning business the right way.” BD is committed to training all associates via both in-person,  scenario-based sessions and learning-management-system  courses that leverage policy materials, such as the Global  Standards for Interactions with Healthcare Professionals,  Healthcare Organizations and Government Officials.
Joint training with distributors is a core component of the  antibribery and anticorruption program.
These sessions combine  required anticorruption training with information about our  overall strategy, progress updates for each business segment  and new products.
We also communicate with each of our  distributors to better understand their needs and topics for  future gatherings.
GRI disclosure: 102-169Reporting ethics concerns Our associates are expected to report any actual or suspected  violations of laws, the BD Code of Conduct, our policies or  our high ethical standards.
Associates can report these in a  number of ways, including via the BD Ethics Helpline, which is  available anywhere in the world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Alternatively, associates may use our independently operated  web-based reporting tool, where BD associates worldwide can  make a report in their native language.
The Helpline provides  translation services as needed, and reports can be made  anonymously.
Associates can also report violations to their  supervisor, management, Human Resources, the Law Group  or directly to Ethics & Compliance.
Regardless of the outcome,  associates are never penalized for bringing such matters to the  Company’s attention in good faith.
BD does not tolerate any  form of retaliation.
Local toll-free numbers for the Helpline are included in our   Code of Conduct, and the web-based reporting tool can be  accessed from any computer with internet access at   www.bd.ethicspoint.com.
In FY2018, the Ethics Office received more than 500 contacts  from associates worldwide seeking guidance or reporting  concerns.
BD takes all reports of violations of laws, BD policies  and our high ethical standards seriously.
We promptly, fairly and  thoroughly investigate all reports.
Depending on the findings, we  may take corrective action, such as discipline up to and including  termination of employment or simply providing nondisciplinary- based training in areas where a gap has been identified.
GRI disclosure: 102-Interactions with healthcare professionals We comply with all applicable laws, and regulations that govern  the interactions between medical technology companies  and healthcare professionals, healthcare organizations and  government officials in the many countries in which we do  business.
To help ensure compliance, BD has adopted various  industry codes, including the Advanced Medical Technology  Association (AdvaMed) Code of Ethics in the United States  and MedTech Europe Code of Ethics.
BD associates receive  information and training about these codes in a number of ways, including periodic communications, and online and in-person  trainings at conferences and meetings.
Associates can access  detailed information on our expectations through our intranet  and our Ethics & Compliance mobile application.
Key provisions  of applicable industry codes are also incorporated into various  global policies, including the Global Standards for Interactions  with Healthcare Professionals, Healthcare Organizations and  Government Officials.
GRI disclosure: 102-Human rights At BD, we are committed to operating in a way that respects the  human rights of all associates, as well as the people in our supply  chains, the communities in which we operate, and those who are  impacted by our products.
Rather than simply doing less harm, BD is focused on doing what  is right.
This value, along with the rest of the BD values, guide our  efforts to have a positive social impact across our businesses and  our operations.
Our commitment to human rights is guided by the principles  outlined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and extends  beyond BD processes and practices to those in our supply chains.
We believe that all people should be treated with dignity and  respect and we are committed to conducting our business in a  manner consistent with this principle.
We comply with applicable  employment and human rights laws and regulations wherever  we have operations; we expect our suppliers to do the same.In all of our operations: • We provide a safe and healthy workplace for our associates.
• We do not use child labor.
• We do not use forced, prison, indentured, bonded or  involuntary labor.
• We prohibit discrimination in our hiring and  employment practices.
• We prohibit physical abuse and harassment of associates, as  well as the threat of either.
• We support the freedom of association and the rights of  workers and employers to bargain collectively.10BD has programs in place to monitor and advance human rights  efforts throughout the Company.
These include: • Policies  –BD Code of Conduct, which includes a section outlining our policy  on human rights  –BD Expectations for Suppliers, our code of conduct designed for  our thousands of suppliers • Due diligence, including initial assessments of suppliers  against 12 risk factors, including environmental, social and  governance (ESG) risk• Risk management programs to ensure compliance with  related policies throughout our operations  –For example, our corporate Environmental Health and Safety  audit program ensures a safe and healthy work environment for all  associates, visitors and contractors.
• Training and capacity building, both internally and for  key suppliers BD strives to continuously improve its programs to ensure  compliance with applicable laws and high ethical standards  to meet the expectations of our customers, shareholders,  associates, communities and other stakeholders.
Corporate governance Corporate governance principles Our Corporate Governance Principles outline how we hold  ourselves accountable to shareholders and stakeholders.
These  principles address the operation of our board and its committees;  strategic and succession planning; director qualifications, independence, compensation and equity ownership; and the  ability of shareholders and others to communicate directly with  board members.
GRI disclosure: 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25, 102-28 102-Board composition BD is governed by a Board of Directors consisting of 12 members,  11 of whom are independent.
Our board members have a  variety of backgrounds, which reflects our continuing efforts to  achieve a diversity of viewpoints, experiences and knowledge,  as well as ethnicities and genders.
Our board is comprised of  four female directors and eight male directors, one of whom is  African American.There are five operating board committees, listed below, and an  executive committee that meets only as needed: 1 Audit 2 Compensation and Management Development 3 Corporate Governance and Nominating 4 Quality and Regulatory 5 Science, Marketing, Innovation and Technology A charter for each committee outlines its mission, the  qualifications required for membership and its members’ duties.
Find more about our Board of Directors on the Corporate  Governance website.
More information about board diversity  can be found in the Empowerment section of this report.
Executive compensation Our goal is to provide an executive compensation program  that best serves the long-term interests of our shareholders.
We believe that attracting and retaining superior talent and  rewarding performance is key to delivering long-term shareholder returns, and that a competitive compensation program is critical  to that end.
For further details of executive compensation, see  our proxy statements.11Participation in the political process BD proactively engages with organizations that are responsible  for setting policy in a variety of forms, from guidelines set  by professional societies to regulations implemented by  government agencies and legislation enacted by elected  officials.
The strong, long-term relationships that we develop  with policymakers enhance our mutual understanding of unmet  needs around the world and support efforts to appropriately  position our portfolio with customers.
In addition, the Company’s ability to operate competitively is  subject to a variety of government policies, which can affect  corporate operations generally as well as the availability of  medical technology specifically.
We seek to identify opportunities to shape regulatory policies to  speed time to market and reduce barriers to market entry as well  as promote sensible tax policies that enhance innovation.
Approach to advocacy We employ public affairs professionals who work closely  with our country and business leaders to make constructive  contributions to policy discussions relevant to BD and to the  communities in which we operate.
All advocacy activities are  directed toward furthering the Company’s Purpose of advancing  the world of health, without regard to the personal political  affiliations or views of any individual associates at any level across the organization.
In areas where BD has deep experience,  the Company develops public policy positions that guide our  advocacy efforts worldwide.
We currently have a range of Global  Public Policy Positions available online.
Our participation in the  political process is governed by the BD board of directors and the  executive leadership team.
Engaging in a transparent manner The Center for Political Accountability recognized BD with  a first-place rating of 100% on their 2018 corporate political  disclosure and accountability index.
The ranking benchmarks  Fortune 500 companies and is produced by CPA in conjunction  with the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research at the Wharton  School at the University of Pennsylvania.
This is the second year  in a row that the company has received a perfect score for the  transparency with which we conduct our political engagement.For calendar year 2018, the company spent approximately $1.8  million on salaries and expenses associated with lobbying in the  United States, which was roughly the same as the Company’s  2017 expenditure.
We file quarterly reports regarding our  federal lobbying activities with the Office of the Clerk of the  House of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate.
The  BD PAC contributed a total of $85,000 to candidates in 2018,  an increase of approximately $6,000 over the prior year.
All  contributions made by the BD PAC are also publicly reported.
Role of political contributions The Company prohibits the use of corporate funds and assets  to support U.S. federal or state candidates, political parties,  ballot measures or referendum campaigns.
Exceptions to this  policy require approval by the CEO, the General Counsel and  a designated member of the Board of Directors Corporate  Nominating and Governance Committee.
To date, no exceptions  have been sought or approved.
Certain conditions must also be  met for any political contributions outside of the United States.
As permitted under U.S. law, the Company operates a political  action committee.
The BD PAC is a mechanism to enable eligible U.S. associates to voluntarily support candidates for  elected office who share our perspectives and approaches to  public policy issues.
Contributions to the BD PAC are entirely  voluntary and are governed by the BD PAC by-laws.
BD provides  administrative support to the PAC, as permitted under  federal law.
For annual reporting of itemized PAC contributions and any  other corporate contributions, visit www.bd.com/investors/ corporate_governance/policy-positions.aspx.
12U.S. lobbying expenditures Further details about the participation of BD in the political process, including oversight, accountability and transparency  of this process, and reporting of violations, can be found in the document "Our Participation in the Political Process" at  bd.com/Investors/Corporate_Governance.
$651,523  Public policy consultants$725,BD public aﬀairs associates$102,Issue-based coalitions$221,Trade associations/three.num 1  Data represents calendar years (Including Bard data) 2 Trade associations: AdvaMed, Healthcare Institute of New Jersey, California Life Sciences Association, North Carolina Biosciences Organization 3 Issue-based coalitions: Diagnostic Test Working Group, Medical Device Competitiveness Coalition, Physicians Fee Schedule Pathology Payment Coalition, United  for Medical Research$809,623  Public policy consultants$607,BD public aﬀairs associates$92,Issue-based coalitions/two.num $196,Trade associations/three.num $1,705,465$1,701,201812017113Sustainability strategy We center our sustainability strategy upon our Purpose—  advancing the world of health— and integrally tie it to our  business strategy.
We utilize a defined process to evaluate and prioritize the  environmental, social and governance ESG factors most relevant  to our business and stakeholders.
By using this process, we have  defined four areas of focus that provide the framework for our  2020 Sustainability goals: • Innovation—how we contribute to more sustainable  healthcare systems by improving outcomes, reducing system  costs and protecting patients and healthcare workers • Access—how we support health system leapfrogging in  emerging and developing economies, and reach vulnerable  populations globally• Efficiency—how we work across our value chain to minimize  environmental impact and create positive social impact • Empowerment—how we advance our purpose-driven culture  through workforce and community engagements As a result of the Bard acquisition and a changing healthcare  landscape, we have decided to reevaluate and prioritize the ESG  factors most relevant to our business and stakeholders.
We will  continue this work throughout FY2019 and ensure we remain  focused on shared value creation—meaning how we address  unmet societal needs through business models and initiatives  that also contribute to the commercial success of BD.
Solar panels installed at the BD European Headquarters in Eysins, Switzerland.
GRI disclosure: 102-47 Innovation • Data security • Informatics and innovation • Value-based outcomes          Access • Collaborations and  partnerships • Patient-centric care • Healthcare access and  affordability    Efficiency • Planetary health  • Sustainable supply chain • Product design and  lifecycle management • Energy and greenhouse gas  (GHG) management • Waste • Water Empowerment • Inclusion and diversity • Associate health and safety • Attraction and  retention of talentSignificant ESG issues Our significant ESG issues are:142020 Sustainability goals Our sustainability strategy addresses a wide range of  challenges in our industry while helping to make a difference  on relevant issues that affect society and the planet.
We also  actively evaluate how we can mobilize and contribute to the  achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  through our product and service offerings as well as collaborative  efforts across various sectors—most prominently around SDG3— for good health and well-being.We launched our 2020 Sustainability goals in July 2015, reflecting  a broader and more integrated agenda than in previous years.
In line with our significant sustainability issues, we arranged  our goals and programs around four strategic areas: innovation,  access, efficiency and empowerment.
In our FY2016 Sustainability Report, we outlined alignment to  our current strategy, core activities and 2020 Goal framework  against the 17 SDGs and associated 169 targets.
Our analysis  reviewed the type of impact BD has on the SDG target, the  location of impacts within the value chain and our degree of  control and relevant ESG factors.
For case studies of how BD is supporting the SDGs, visit bd.com/Sustainability.
Innovation  Innovate key healthcare processes such as medication management and lab automation.
Develop innovations and informatics to enable disease management across the care continuum.
Enable the transition from research into clinical practice.
Provide solutions that improve healthcare worker and patient safety.
Access Develop low-cost innovations to address leading causes of mortality and morbidity.
Collaborate on health system strengthening with leading agencies and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs).
Further expand BD manufacturing, product array and employment in emerging countries.
Efficiency Reduce GHG emissions and increase climate resilience throughout operations and value chain.
Minimize our environmental footprint and conserve natural resources.
Establish a supplier responsibility evaluation methodology.
Eliminate priority materials of concern in specified product categories.
Improve life cycle impacts of current and future products.
Empowerment Increase the diversity of our workforce, particularly in leadership roles.
Achieve best-in-class associate safety performance.
Partner with nonprofits to address unmet needs locally and globally.
Drive social impact and associate engagement through volunteer programs.15Sustainability governance The Office of Global Sustainability manages our ESG and  sustainability reporting, as well as stakeholder engagement  activities relevant to our sustainability strategy.
This office is  part of the Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability  group, which reports directly to the Executive Vice President of  Integrated Supply Chain and engages directly with the executive  leadership team.
Our sustainability strategy is governed by the Executive  Leadership Team, which maintains a dialogue with our  stakeholders, businesses and associates about issues relevant  to each group and monitors performance related to our 2020  sustainability goals.Our Board of Directors—as a board or through its committees— also oversees several sustainability-related issues, including: • Community relations • Employment practices • Environment, health and safety • Ethics and enterprise compliance In addition, the Corporate Governance and Nominating  Committee oversees matters that involve the Company’s image,  reputation and our standing as a responsible corporate citizen.
Stakeholder engagement Because of our global reach and the nature of our work, we  serve and rely on a wide range of stakeholders.
Engaging with  them through a variety of channels across many parts of our  organization is critical to how we apply the principle of shared  value and is therefore essential to our business success.
Often, we  work collaboratively with stakeholders who share our objectives,  and, in the process, we gain a deep understanding of their  work.
We listen to our stakeholders’ views and suggestions,  and use that feedback to improve our products, services and  business practices.
Through FY2019, as we begin development  of our future sustainability strategy, we will consult with our  stakeholders to understand which ESG factors are most  important to them.
Our stakeholders: • Customers: Our customers are at the center of everything  that we do.
In a fast-changing environment, it is vital for  BD to understand what our customers value most, in order to  develop solutions that will best meet their needs.
We create  a deep understanding of the healthcare market and its  customers through a fact-based approach across regions and  strategically engage with customers to develop and deploy  our products and solutions.
• Shareholders: Our focus on shareholders is to ensure that the  combination of our business and geographic diversity—our  balanced capital allocation and our drive for efficiency— provides a long-term pathway toward sustainable profit  growth that returns capital to shareholders.
We engage with  shareholders in a variety of forms, including quarterly calls  and in-person meetings, on specific topics that range from our  long-term growth and innovation strategy to how we integrate  ESG factors into our business.
• BD associates: BD has grown to over 65,000 associates.
The  capabilities and dedication of these associates are critical to  achieving our strategy.
We engage and develop our associates  through a variety of mechanisms including internal social  networks, townhall meetings, leadership and mentoring  programs and Associate Resource Groups.• Business partners: Our suppliers, distributors and other  partners in the supply chain help us effectively serve our  customers.
We engage with them through a variety of  strategic programs, including through relationship managers  within our Integrated Supply Chain function.
• Communities: At the country level, our general managers  engage with a variety of community stakeholders to  understand the health system’s priorities and align our  capabilities to them.
In communities where we have  manufacturing operations, we often develop relationships with  teaching institutions to help develop the skill sets we require  in our operations.
And, our associates engage in community- organized volunteer efforts to support local programs.
• Governments and policy makers: We engage governments  and policy makers through various ways, primarily through our  public policy teams.
We engage at the agency and legislative  levels in many countries to enhance our understanding of the  priorities of governments.
From these engagements, we seek  ways to deploy our capabilities, products and solutions to help  support and achieve national health objectives.
We also share  our expertise and global experience in key focus areas.
• International agencies: We engage with UN agencies  such as the World Health Organization (WHO), the United  Nations InterAgency Coordinating Group (UN IACG) on  Anti-Microbial Resistance, UNICEF, the joint United Nations  Program on HIV & AIDS (UNAIDS) and other international  and intergovernmental organizations through collaborations  that aim to address pressing global health needs.
We routinely  pursue these types of collaborations as an integral part of our  business model in countries throughout the world.
• Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs): In many  cases, NGOs and relief organizations are strategic partners in  helping us meet unmet health needs.
We engage with them  through in-person meetings, collaborative initiatives and site  visits to strengthen how we serve those in need.4 O’Neill J, ed.
Antimicrobial Resistance: T ackling a Crisis for the Health and Wealth of Nations.
London, U.K.: Review on Antimicrobial Resistance; 2014.
5 WHO.
Global action plan on antimicrobial resistance.
Available at https://www.who.int/antimicrobial-resistance/global-action-plan/en/.
Accessed April 11, 2019.
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) AMR is among the most significant threats to the health  and well-being of the world’s population.
If present trends  continue, AMR is projected to become one of the leading causes  of human mortality and may cause 10 million deaths each year  by the year 2050.4 AMR is a truly global concern that endangers  people in every region and country around the globe.
AMR is what occurs when bacterial, fungal and other infections  become resistant to treatment with antibiotics, antifungals or  other antimicrobial medications.
It is an outcome of overuse  and inappropriate uses of antimicrobials in human healthcare,  livestock production and the environment.
Rates of resistant infections continue to rise around the world, from rifampicin- resistant tuberculosis to multidrug-resistant urinary tract  infections, while development of novel medicines slows.
As a result, global mobilization to address AMR has stepped up  considerably with an aim to incentivize new innovations while  maintaining the viability of existing medications.
Leveraging the collective capabilities of BD functions, regions  and businesses, BD is mobilizing to meaningfully engage around  each of the five key strategies outlined in the WHO’s Global  Action Plan on AMR5 and adopted by the UN IACG on AMR:  Improving awareness  remains a  critical component of efforts to combat  AMR.
BD launched the Antimicrobial  Resistance Fighter Coalition  (ARFC) in 2017 to raise awareness  and emphasize the need for a broad  array of stakeholders to take personal  responsibility in combating AMR.Strengthening surveillance  and education  is necessary to better  understand the scale of the challenge  and develop an appropriate response.
BD is contributing data to several of the  most high-profile organizations, such  as the U.S. Centers for Disease Control  and Prevention; the Institute for Health  Metrics and Evaluation (IMHE); and  Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics  and Policy to evaluate the burden of  AMR.
BD is also funding the development  of new educational and assessment  programs to provide training in infection  prevention and diagnostics and enable  evaluation of capabilities for combating  AMR in healthcare settings.Reducing risk of infection  and optimizing antimicrobial  use  are important aspects of the global  effort to combat AMR.
BD products and  technologies can help by supporting  infection prevention and control guidelines  to reduce the need for antimicrobials and  by providing tools to inform appropriate  antimicrobial use decisions when clinically  necessary (see more in the Innovation  section of this report).
Beyond our products, BD has the know-how and expertise to  help our customers develop and strengthen their own infection  prevention and antimicrobial stewardship efforts.
Our long- standing collaborative partnerships with agencies such as the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the U.S.  President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), USAID  and country ministries of health help developing countries  establish and improve infection control and diagnostic testing  capabilities.
The threat of AMR is far too great leave unattended.
Through  its actions, BD is demonstrating its commitment to work across  sectors and provide actionable and sustainable solutions.Finally, BD remains committed to  investing in innovations to combat  AMR through the development of new  diagnostics, devices and information  systems that can help in clinical  decision-making and reduce risks.
Spotlight issue6 UNEP .
Frontiers 2017 Emerging Issues of Environmental Concern.
United Nations Environment Programme, Nairobi.
Available at https://www.unenvironment.org/resources/frontiers-2017- emerging-issues-environmental-concern.
Accessed June 14, 2019.
7 Ibid p8 Ibid p9 MacFadden DR, McGough SF, Fisman D, Santillana M, Brownstein JS.
Antibiotic resistance increases with local temperature.
Nat Clim Chang.
2018;8(6):510-514.
10 Ibid 11 Wellcome.
Initiatives for Addressing Antimicrobial Resistance in the Environment: Current Situation and Challenges.
https://wellcome.ac.uk/sites/default/files/antimicrobial-resistance- environment-report.pdf.
Accessed June 12, 2019.AMR and the environment In 2017 UN Environment declared AMR as an  emerging issue of environmental concern.6 As  antibiotics and other antimicrobial compounds are  discharged into the environment, they have the  potential to drive the evolution of resistant bacteria.
“The environment is key to antibiotic resistance.
Bacteria in soil, rivers and seawater can develop  resistance through contact with resistant bacteria,  antibiotics, and disinfectant agents released by  human activity.
People and livestock can then be  exposed to more resistant bacteria through food,  water, and air.”Contaminants such as heavy metals and biocides  or chemicals with antimicrobial properties (such  as disinfectants and detergents) in industrial  wastewater increases pressure on bacteria to  become resistant, possibly multiresistant to such  substances.
Multiresistant genes can be passed to  nonresistant bacteria and to the  next generation.8Climate change can also exacerbate AMR.
A recent  study9 found that antibiotic resistance can increase  with local temperatures; “findings suggest that  current forecasts of the burden of antibiotic resistance  could be significant underestimates in the face of a  growing population and climate change.”10  While further research is needed to understand  the presence and impact of antimicrobial-resistant  microbes in the environment and the direct risk  posed to human health, it remains a shared  global challenge.Our approach to sustainability recognizes the  interconnected nature of ESG issues, and that  the action we take to reduce our impact on the  environment can contribute to larger efforts to  tackle various threats to human health, such as  AMR.
We are continuing to implement programs to  reduce greenhouse gas and waste water emissions  from our operations, and eliminate heavy metals  from instruments in our product portfolio.
Further  information about progress to achieving our 2020  goals in these areas can be found in the Efficiency  section of this report.Innovations Our product security and patient data safety efforts  are underpinned by our respect for human rights and  the right to privacy and security.
BD is committed to  providing secure products to our customers given the important  benefits they provide to patient health.
We value confidentiality, integrity and availability of all protected health and personally  identifiable information, and we continuously strive to improve  security and privacy through the product lifecycle.
More  information on our product security and privacy policy and  programs is available at bd.com/ProductSecurity.
Access BD is focused on expanding access to healthcare.
We  develop and deploy market-appropriate solutions  and improve healthcare worker capabilities through  partnerships with leading health agencies, government and NGOs to strengthen health systems and improve clinical practice  around the world.
We do this because we believe healthcare is a  basic human right.
Efficiency Our efforts to reduce our impact on the environment  are grounded in the belief that the health of the  population is linked with the health of the planet.
Climate change is linked to several public health issues—from  respiratory illness to an increase in vector- and water-borne diseases such as malaria.
It will also affect those in vulnerable  populations with greater severity.
We believe climate change is a  critical issue for all, and that humans have the right to a healthy  environment.
Empowerment Inclusion & Diversity are drivers of our future success  at BD.
Not only does an inclusive and diverse  workforce help us to better understand patient and  customer needs and create innovative solutions that address  those needs, it also leads to a more creative and collaborative  culture that makes BD a great place to work.
Our Associate  Resource Groups (ARGs) are one way we are making BD a more  inclusive and diverse environment.
For instance, our Out and Proud Employee Network (OPEN) has worked collaboratively with  BD leadership to publicly support the United Nations Standards  of Conduct for Business, aimed at tackling discrimination against  lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender + (LGBT+) people in the  business community.
Our public support of these standards  demonstrates our strong support for LGBT+ inclusion in every  country that we operate in.
We are proud to join with other  supporting corporations to highlight the importance of this issue.Human rights Outside of the fundamental human rights and our work around them, detailed on page 9 of this report, our sustainability strategy  provides a framework by which we can assess our impact on human rights.
Across our four pillars we seek to address a variety of  human rights issues that are built into the core of our business.
Spotlight issueSpotlight issueClimate change and human health The health of the population is linked to the health of the  planet.
Our Purpose—advancing the world of health™—is the  foundation of our approach to managing and reducing our  impact on the environment.
At BD, we view climate change as an issue  of public health.
The global greenhouse  gas (GHG) emission trajectory is expected  to increase the frequency and intensity  of some extreme weather events, and  along with increasing temperatures, these  factors will bring about a range of health  risks and population impacts.Heat-related fatalities and illnesses, such as heat stroke and  respiratory illnesses, will increase due to rising temperatures  and levels of air pollution.
Increased flooding will affect  waterborne illnesses and the spread of vector-borne diseases,  such as malaria, Zika virus and West Nile virus.
These factors will  place strain on the healthcare infrastructure, so we believe it is  imperative that we take steps not only to reduce GHG emissions  from our own operations, but also take steps to manage—and  where possible mitigate—the potential risks and negative  impacts of climate change across our value chain.
We will do this  by looking at climate risks and opportunities through the lens of  the four pillars of our Sustainability Strategy: Innovation We have a portfolio of solutions that can help detect  and diagnose illnesses that will be exacerbated by  climate change, such as antimicrobial resistance  (AMR).
We will also have an opportunity to consider emerging  unmet health needs that our products, solutions and expertise  can support.
Finally, improvements to our products and solutions  to reduce their carbon footprint across their lifecycle will support  our customers in pursuit of the their sustainability goals.
This  could include designing electrical equipment to be more energy efficient, considering alternative materials and making our  supply chain networks more efficient.
Innovation of products and solutions will require collaboration  across the value chain.
Our work with the Sustainable  Healthcare Coalition and Healthcare Plastics Recycling  Council demonstrates what can be achieved when suppliers,  medical device manufacturers and customers work together for a  common goal.
Access According to the World Health Organization, between  2030 and 2050, climate change is expected to cause  approximately 250,000 additional deaths per year from  malnutrition, malaria, diarrhea and heat stress.
Areas with weak  health infrastructure will be least able to cope without assistance  to prepare for this crisis.12 With BD Global Health’s work around communicable and noncommunicable disease states and AMR,  and our experience in health systems strengthening, we are well  positioned to address priority health needs that are worsened  by climate change.
We can do this through deployment of our  products, solutions and expertise, combined with public-private  partnerships.
Efficiency Our 2020 Goals include targets to reduce GHG  emissions, but also focus on initiating climate  resilience planning for BD facilities.
Hurricane Maria  demonstrated how important it is to continue our work in this  area, in order to manage and reduce risk from future extreme- weather-related events around the world.
As reported in the  results for our first fiscal quarter in 2018, costs of $7 million  were incurred as a result of hurricane-related damage to our  production facilities in Puerto Rico.Our business continuity planning process includes natural  disasters as one of several risk factors.
Our work on climate  change risks and opportunities during FY2019 will further  enhance how we evaluate climate-related risks in our operations.
We also continue to take steps to increase our use of renewable  energy and implement on-site energy generation.
Further details  are contained in the Efficiency section of this report.
12 WHO.
Climate change and health.
Fact Sheet.
Available at www.who.int/en/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/climate-change-and-health.
Published February 1, 2018.
Last accessed May 13, 2019.$2–4B   U.S. per year Estimated direct  damage costs of  climate change to  health, by Empowerment Our associates are motivated by our purpose-driven  culture and our work to address global challenges, such  as climate change.
Our Associate Resource Groups  (ARGs) provide a platform to engage with associates who want  to contribute to our sustainability work.
For example, NEXT , the  Network for Employee-led Cross-Company Transformation, is an  ARG focused on becoming a network for associates who want  to transform the workplace.
Associates engaged in NEXT are  working on programs such as carpooling and improving office  practices on resource use and recycling.
As part of our energy efficiency programs, we are implementing  projects that reduce our consumption and enhance the work  environment for our associates.
This includes improved building  automation and building design that enhance comfort and  well-being; and investing in technology such as telepresence at  our key locations to help reduce unnecessary travel and related  carbon emissions.
We are also increasing the number of electric  vehicle (EV) charging points available to our associates at  locations globally.
Looking forward In 2019, we will be using the recommendations of the Taskforce  for Climate Related Disclosures (TCFD) to carry out a gap  assessment of our current disclosures around climate change.
We will also identify areas for improvement in our management  of climate risk, including setting science-based targets.
13 FDA.
Securing the Future for Puerto Rico: Restoring the Island's robust Medical Product Manufacturing Sector.
Available at https://www.fda.gov/downloads/NewsEvents/Newsroom/FDAInBrief/ UCM584030.pdf.
Accessed May 29, 2019.
14 FDA.
Statement by FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb, M.D. on medical device manufacturing recovery in Puerto Rico.
Available at https://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/ PressAnnouncements/ucm581436.htm.
Published October 20, 2017.
Accessed May 29, 2019.
These items were either life-sustaining or life-supporting and/or because there may be the single  manufacturer of that device type.Highlight; hurricane Maria There is evidence to suggest that climate change is already  impacting the severity of tropical storms.
The impact of an  extreme weather event on healthcare was exemplified by  hurricane Maria.
In September 2017, hurricane Maria made landfall on  Puerto Rico.
The effects this category 5 hurricane had  on the island and its residents, communities and local  economies were far reaching and long lasting.
The island is  still recovering.
Puerto Rico is a major manufacturer of medical devices  and pharmaceuticals, representing 30% of its economy.13  Hurricane Maria forced manufacturing to be suspended  and in the months that followed the U.S. FDA closely  monitored 50 types of medical devices that were critically  important to patient care.14 However, months-long  shortage of some medical devices did occur in the United  States.
For example, one of the largest IV fluid shortages  in the United States was compounded by a severe 2017– 2018 flu season.
In response, BD mobilized business and  regional teams to accelerate the launch of our BD IV fluids  product portfolio.Prior to and following the storm, our primary concern  was the well-being of our 1,200-plus associates, their  families and their communities.
In responding to the  storm, BD acted first to ensure the health and safety of  these individuals.
Through the recovery process, we were able to identify  opportunities to support the wider community.
On World Water Day (March 22)—almost 6 months to  the day after the storm—a significant proportion of the  island still didn’t have access to clean drinking water.
BD sponsored an AquaTower installation with Planet  Water Foundation as part of Project 24, an effort to  install 24 AquaTower filtration systems in the space of 24  hours on World Water Day.
BD associates helped install  an AquaTower in Cubuy Canovanas at Escuela Georgina  Baquero, which now provides nearly 5,000 local residents  access to safe, clean drinking water.
Further details about our response to hurricane Maria can  be found in the Empowerment section of this report.21Innovation Healthcare safety, outcomes and cost  Introduction BD is on the forefront of helping healthcare systems balance four key priorities: increasing  access, improving outcomes, mitigating healthcare system cost pressures and protecting patients  and healthcare workers.
A sustainable innovation system needs investment, discipline and  leadership to succeed.
Innovation requires diligence and partnering, and our capabilities span ideation through market  development.
Along this continuum, we can increase our impact through selective partnerships.
We think a broad definition of the term “innovation” is the best way to advance healthcare.
Whether it  is technology, processes, systems partnerships or any dimension of business, we pioneer new, relevant  ways to address healthcare’s most pressing problems.
Our technologies and execution capabilities allow  BD to make a profound impact on the quality of care.
R&D investments BD is a company that develops innovations for better  discovery, better diagnostics and better delivery.
Innovation  and new product development are key to advancing in these  areas.
In FY2018, BD launched new products and solutions  that are helping our customers deliver enhanced outcomes  with greater safety and efficiency.
BD conducts the majority  of its R&D activities in North America.
Outside of North  America, BD conducts R&D activities in China, France, India,  Ireland and Singapore.
BD also collaborates with certain  universities, medical centers and other entities on R&D programs  and retains individual consultants and partners to support its  efforts in specialized fields.Our new product innovation is continuing to fuel growth.
From  the new BD Alaris™ infusion system and BD HealthSight™  integrated platform in our Medical segment, to new diagnostic  capabilities for the BD MAX™ platform and continued expansion  of our BD Horizon Brilliant™ dyes portfolio in our Life Sciences  segment, and improving blood flow through LUTONIX™  AV catheters and Covera™ stent grafts in the Interventional  segment, we saw 25 major product launches in FY2018.
Additionally, Bard's strong product portfolio and innovation  pipeline are expected to continue to increase the Company's  opportunities in fast-growing clinical areas.
R&D expense   (USD, millions)FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18* 472 494 550 632 828 774 1,*This number includes legacy Bard R&D expenses22Innovation awards BD was once again included in the  Clarivate Analytics top innovators list,  now called the Derwent Top 100 Global  Innovators.
This report highlights high- impact innovation and the companies  that rank among the world’s most  successful innovators.
The ranking “identifies and celebrates innovative organizations  who successfully develop valuable patented inventions with  strong commercialization potential based on originality, market  reach, and opportunities for spin-off inventions.”15 BD has been  included on this list for the past 4 years.
Innovation strategy Our long-term strategy and execution plan toward advancing the world of health™ is focused on providing leading medical  technologies and innovative solutions for customers and their patients.
We work to drive sustainable healthcare by increasing  access, driving better outcomes, mitigating system cost pressures and improving healthcare safety.
This work is done in four  pathways; discovery, diagnostics, medication management and therapy management.
15  https://clarivate.com/top100innovators.
Accessed May 6, 2019.Discovery Enabling research insights   inside and outside the cellDiagnostics Transforming the infectious   disease lab of the future Medication  management Improving medication  management across the  care continuumTherapy  management Enabling surgical and  interventional procedures232020 goal Innovate key healthcare processes such as medication management and lab automation Medication management The BD HealthSight™ platform for enterprise medication  management is our unique combination of connective  technologies, analytics and expert services that close gaps and  create seamless visibility across BD medication management  solutions, such as BD Pyxis™ dispensing and BD Alaris™ infusion solutions.
The BD HealthSight™ platform connects systems and  processes to help hospitals and health systems drive a safer,  more efficient medication management process.
We continue  to develop the capabilities of the BD HealthSight™ platform,  including the following new releases:  Workflow applications The BD HealthSight™ viewer offers a web-based portal with  near real-time all-medication visibility to critical BD Alaris™ and  BD Pyxis™ system alerts and patient IV compounding needs, in  one view.
It provides pharmacy with prioritized visibility to key system and medication alerts, and provides both pharmacy and  nursing with visibility to IV dose request status, including track  and deliver, to avoid wasted time and effort.
Analytics BD HealthSight™ analytics provide advanced analytics for  inventory optimization and comparative benchmarks that  enable hospitals to monitor performance and prioritize efforts to  help drive process improvements.
Our inventory optimization offers dynamic and predictive  analytics that recommend PAR level modifications with projected  outcomes if the changes are applied.
Bidirectional interface with BD medication management technologies automates the PAR  level changes, removing the need for manual updates.
Our benchmarks offering enables health systems to compare  themselves to like facilities and provides recommendations for  improvement.
Hospitals can compare across facilities in their  health system, or with other organizations, filtered by bed size,  device footprint or hospital type.
Opioid control and management  Addiction to prescription narcotics in the United States has  reached epidemic proportions, contributing to the opioid  crisis and becoming a major driver of drug diversion within  healthcare settings.
Diversion of drugs, for personal use or illegal  distribution, can cause significant financial loss and potentially  impact care to patients and staff safety.
As part of the BD HealthSight™ platform that is designed  to support enterprise-wide medication management, the  BD HealthSight™ diversion management analytics application assists with opioid drug diversion investigations by creating an  investigation workflow to monitor, triage and assign potential  diversion cases to specific investigators.
Compared to traditional,  statistically based analytical tools that only look at opioid  amounts dispensed to identify potential diversion, BD utilizes  machine-learning algorithms and multiple dispensing  behaviors—such as overrides, canceled transactions, delays in  dispense, administration or waste—to surface clinicians whose  behavior indicates higher risk for diversion.
24Lab automation and efficiency Increasing efficiency of the laboratory helps reduce healthcare system costs by improving productivity and helping deliver faster and  more accurate diagnostic results.
The improved accuracy and reliability of the result may lead to improved laboratory performance  for patients.
16 World Health Organization.
Global Tuberculosis Report 2018.
Geneva: WHO, 2018.
17 WHO Fact Sheet on AMR.
https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/antimicrobial-resistance.
Accessed May 6, 2019.Innovations to help combat AMR: BD MAX™ MDR-TB Panel Every year, about 10 million people develop tuberculosis  (TB) and close to 2 million die from the disease, making it  the leading cause of death from a single infectious agent.16  With proper detection and treatment, TB is curable.
Drug  resistance in TB, however, makes a cure more difficult.
Of  the 10 million new cases of TB, the WHO estimates almost  500,000 were multidrug-resistant (MDR-TB) and only  about a quarter of these (123,000 cases) were detected  and reported.17 MDR-TB, resistant to the two important  first-line drugs, isoniazid (INH) and rifampicin (RIF), requires  treatment courses that are much longer and less effective  than those for nonresistant TB.In 2018, BD introduced the BD MAX™ MDR-TB panel, an in  vitro diagnostic with CE-mark available in Europe and other  regions.
The single PCR-based molecular diagnostic test is  an integrated diagnostic test that can simultaneously detect  bacteria that cause tuberculosis (TB) and determine if the  bacteria contain mutations associated with resistance to the  two important first-line drugs, INH and RIF, enhancing the  information for clinicians to direct the optimal treatment for  their patients.Rapid screening helps clinicians put patients on the  right clinical pathway, avoiding unnecessary expensive,  prolonged and inappropriate therapy that can contribute to  antimicrobial resistance.
The assay utilizes the existing BD MAX™ system.
The  BD MAX™ system is a fully integrated, automated  platform that performs nucleic acid extraction and real- time PCR, providing results for up to 24 samples across  multiple syndromes.
BD has a long history in TB diagnostics, having launched  the first automated liquid culture system, the BD BACTEC™  MGIT™ system for comprehensive testing for drug  susceptibility and resistance.
The new BD MAX™ MDR-TB  assay complements this technology, enabling clinicians to  rapidly test for TB and multidrug resistance as a first-line  test, and then use the BD BACTEC™ MGIT™ system for  broader drug susceptibility testing and patient monitoring.
For further information about AMR and our activities in this  area, please visit amr.bd.com.
PAXgene® Blood ccfDNA tube (CE-IVD) The PAXgene® Blood cccfDNA tube is a plastic blood collection  tube that includes a proprietary sample stabilization additive  and BD Vacutainer® Hemogard™ technology to help protect  healthcare worker safety.
The tube was designed to ensure  accurate and reproducible results in molecular diagnostic testing applications using circulating cell-free DNA (ccfDNA),  such as cancer and noninvasive prenatal tests.
The product  was developed by PreAnalytiX GmbH, a joint venture between  BD and QIAGEN.
The PAXgene® Blood ccfDNA tube provides a solution for clinical  laboratories to stabilize samples when the sample cannot be  processed on the same day it was collected.
Whereas standard  EDTA tubes require processing within hours before cells die  and release genomic DNA into blood plasma (thus changing  the native ccfDNA profile), the PAXgene® tube has a unique  stabilization chemistry that enables collection and processing  to occur days apart, addressing a critical logistical hurdle  for reference labs offering molecular testing outside of the  hospital setting.
25BD MAX™ Enteric Viral Panel Viral pathogens cause most cases of acute infectious  gastroenteritis globally.
Norovirus is the most common cause  of epidemic diarrheal cases, accounting for over 90% of viral  gastroenteritis outbreaks worldwide and approximately 50% of  all viral gastroenteritis cases.18 In the United States, norovirus  accounts for 19 to 21 million cases of viral gastroenteritis  annually.
Other causes of viral gastroenteritis include rotavirus,  adenovirus and astrovirus.
Sapovirus infections can also cause  acute gastroenteritis in outbreak situations.
Diagnosing the underlying cause of diarrhea can play a critical  role in patient management by directing appropriate therapy  and providing guidance for special circumstances where there could be an increased risk of infection spread transmission,  such as children in daycare or an outbreak among food workers.
Molecular assays for testing gastrointestinal pathogens are  considered more sensitive than conventional methods and  frequently identify pathogens unsuspected by clinicians.
The BD MAX™ enteric viral panel is designed for detection of  viral causes of infectious diarrhea symptoms targeting norovirus,  rotavirus, adenovirus, human astrovirus and sapovirus.
Results are  provided in approximately 3 hours, allowing clinicians to more  quickly detect potential causes of the patient’s illness.
Visit BD Molecular Diagnostics for detailed information on the  BD MAX™ enteric viral panel.
BD Onclarity™ HPV Assay The BD Onclarity™ HPV assay detects 14 types of high-risk  human papillomavirus (HPV) from specimens collected for  cervical cancer screening ("Pap test") in the BD SurePath™ liquid- based cytology vial (FDA approved in the United States, CE  Mark) and the PreservCyt liquid-based cytology vial (CE Mark  only).
The BD Onclarity™ HPV assay is FDA approved to report  three high-risk HPV genotypes individually (16, 18 and 45)  and the remaining 11 other high-risk genotypes as a group.
These three genotypes (16, 18 and 45) are associated with the  majority of cervical cancers worldwide and are disproportionally  responsible for up to 94% of cervical adenocarcinomas.19,20 The  BD Onclarity™ HPV assay, which is CE-Marked, identifies six high- risk genotypes individually (16, 18, 31, 45, 51, 52),and the other  eight high-risk genotypes are reported in groups.The BD Onclarity™ HPV assay may be used in accordance  with clinical guidelines21,22 for cervical cancer screening and  patient management.
The test is clinically validated for use as  a primary screening test, for triaging patients with abnormal  Pap test results, and for use in combination with a Pap test.
The  BD Onclarity™ HPV assay provides information that, together  with the physician’s assessment and professional guidelines, may  be used to inform patient management.
The BD Onclarity™ HPV assay received premarket approval  from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2018.
The  BD Onclarity™ HPV assay achieved the European CE-IVD mark in  2014, received regulatory approval in Canada and Japan in 2017,  and is currently for sale in these and other markets.
More information can be found at bd.com.
18 Fang F, Patel R.
2017 Infectious Diseases Society of America Infectious Diarrhea Guidelines: a view from the clinical laboratory.
Clin Infect Dis.
2017:65(12):1974-1976.
19 de Sanjose S, Quint WG, Alemany L, Geraets DT, Klaustermeier JE, et al.
Human papillomavirus genotype attribution in invasive cervical cancer: a retrospective cross-sectional worldwide study.
Lancet Oncol.
2010;11(11):1048-1056.
20 Li N, Franceschi S, Howell-Jones R, Snijders PJ, Clifford GM.
Human papillomavirus type distribution in 30,848 invasive cervical cancers worldwide: variation by geographical region, histological type  and year of publication.
Int J Cancer.
2011;128(4):927-935.
21 Saslow D, Solomon D, Lawson HW, et al.
American Cancer Society, American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology, and American Society for Clinical Pathology screening guidelines for the  prevention and early detection of cervical cancer.
J Low Genit T ract Dis.
2012;16(3):175-204.
22 Huh WK, Ault KA, Chelmow D, et al.
Use of primary high-risk human papillomavirus testing for cervical cancer screening: Interim clinical guidance.
Gynecol Oncol.
2015;136(2):178-182.262020 goal Develop innovations and informatics to enable disease management across the care continuum Technology is advancing capabilities for how clinicians and patients manage disease across the care continuum.
We work closely with  healthcare systems to improve safety, costs and outcomes.
We continue to invest in new technologies and leverage informatics to  enhance our product and solution offerings.
As we pursue new digital technologies, we are committed to providing secure products to  our customers.
Product security  Our approach to product security is a three-part strategy that  considers security measures in our products by design, in use   and through partnership.
Our framework provides  • Control: the ability to incorporate product security into existing  design and architecture of our products while routinely testing  for security issues.
• Transparency: providing proactive and timely communications  around cybersecurity as it relates to our products , enabling  customers to understand and properly manage risk through  awareness and guidance.We continue to pursue various activities that will improve security  throughout the product lifecycle, including: • Adopting secure coding standards • Performing vulnerability scanning, product security  requirement risk assessments and robustness as well as  penetration testing • Generating customer communications, including product  security white papers and coordinated vulnerability  disclosures, in partnership with government organizations Secure by design Products developed with security in mind  with industry best practiceSecure in use Products secured and maintained across  their lifetimes, multiple technologies  and multiple sites, including end-of- life decisionsSecure through partnership A culture of transparency and  collaboration with customers and  industry stakeholders that offers better  management security27Product security highlight: Medical Device and Health IT Joint Security Plan BD is a member of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security- sponsored Healthcare Sector Coordination Council (HSCC), a  public-private partnership with aims to provide guidance to  the national healthcare infrastructure, including enhancing  government policies, plans and actions.
The HSCC includes a  working group co-chaired by BD that has established a Joint  Security Plan (JSP) for the healthcare and public health sector.
The JSP is a total product lifecycle reference guide to developing,  deploying and supporting cyber-secure technology in the healthcare environment.
This plan is a voluntary framework for  proactive guidance throughout the product lifecycle.
It promotes  collaboration and shared responsibility through actionable  transparency, and establishes consistent benchmarking for  security of medical devices and health IT .
This plan was  developed through FY2018 and was rolled out in January 2019.
BD will continue our involvement in this working group to  continue to develop the JSP as requirements change.
UL Cybersecurity Assurance Program (CAP) In FY2018, BD was proud to announce the completion of  an enterprise-level cybersecurity assessment from UL.
This  independent assessment evaluates corporate cybersecurity  programs and policies to ensure that all medical devices  developed by a company are built with robust cybersecurity  standards, in line with the UL Cybersecurity Assurance Program  (UL CAP), and are only released to the market after appropriate  protocols and testing are completed.
As an addition to the corporate-level cybersecurity assessment, product certification  provides an additional level of scrutiny and attests to the  application of corporate cybersecurity standards to this  specific product.
The UL CAP incorporates the UL 2900 set of standards, including  UL 2900-1, a software cybersecurity standard for network- connected medical devices that has received official recognition  from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
Product highlight: UL certification of BD FACSLyric™ and BD FACSuite™ Clinical Software BD has also received certification under the UL Cybersecurity  Assurance Program for BD FACSLyric™ and BD FACSuite™  clinical software, only the second medical device to receive this  certification under the UL CAP program.
The BD FACSLyric™ high-performance flow cytometer is designed  to support both routine clinical analysis and clinical research.
BD FACSuite™ clinical software is used to operate the instrument,  acquire samples and analyze the data.
Quality-control performance, tracking and reporting are  streamlined and automated.
Routine tasks, such as daily  cleaning and shutdown, can be programmed to occur  automatically.
The UL CAP incorporates the UL 2900 set of  standards, including UL 2900-1, a software cybersecurity  standard for network-connected medical devices that has  received official recognition from the U.S. Food and Drug  Administration.
Biohacking  As part of the BD product security program and its proactive  initiatives to test its products and enhance the cybersecurity of  its medical technologies, we provided two BD Alaris™ infusion  systems operating on the latest software and firmware versions  released for use in the DEF CON Biohacking Village Device  Lab in 2018.
The Biohacking Village Device Lab invited security  researchers of varying levels of skill and experience with medical  devices to find and report vulnerabilities in good faith.
During the event, BD created an environment that mimicked  a hospital setting, with the BD Alaris™ 8015 PCU wirelessly communicating to a virtual server, which was connected to  a wireless access point.
During the conference, more than 24  security researchers spent hours attempting to gain access to our  devices and monitoring data traffic; however, no vulnerabilities  were identified.
Participation in this event speaks to BD efforts  to establish closer working relationships with the cybersecurity  community.
It also demonstrates the transparent manner in  which BD seeks to manage security in our devices.
The Company  is dedicated to advancing the security of our products, and  participation in these types of events is one opportunity to do so.
BD continuously strives to improve security by design, in use and  through partnerships through the product lifecycle.
We recognize  that product security doesn’t stop with protecting patient data  and privacy, but extends to patient safety; innovation in this  area can ultimately protect the health of those impacted by  our products.
Our approach allows us to be confident in our products’ abilities to deliver disease management across the  care continuum.
For more information about our product security efforts, visit  bd.com/ProductSecurity.
Future collaborators for product- related privacy or security initiatives are encouraged to contact  BD at productsecurity@bd.com.282020 goal Enable the transition from research into clinical practice We are on the front lines of helping medical researchers develop a new generation of diagnostics and therapies through our expertise  in bioscience and genomics.
As immunotherapy research continues to expand, the ability to isolate and characterize individual cells  becomes exponentially more important, and BD is a recognized leader in single-cell analysis applications.
This is an area where we will  continue to lead.
BD AbSeq™ Antibody-Oligonucleotide Conjugates The BD AbSeq™ conjugate enables researchers to  gain an unprecedented insight at a single-cell level.
Developed to work on the BD Rhapsody™ single- cell analysis system, BD AbSeq™ conjugates work  seamlessly alongside other RNA assays.
This allows  researchers to analyze protein and RNA expression simultaneously  at the level of a single cell.
Such unique capabilities have now endowed researchers to conduct multiomic analyses of single- cell behavior.
BD AbSeq™ conjugates and the BD Rhapsody™  platform work together to enable researchers in the field of  immunooncology to conduct research that holds the promise to  deliver cutting-edge therapies for cure of deadly diseases.
The  BD AbSeq™ antibody-oligonucleotide conjugates were included in  the Top 10 innovations of 2018 by The Scientist magazine.
BD OptiBuild™ Reagents BD OptiBuild™ custom reagents offer the fluorochrome of  choice for a researcher to be tagged to their antibody of  interest.
Designed to support fast, cutting-edge research by  adding new markers to complex experiments and minimize  compensation, BD OptiBuild™ reagents provide flexibility to  evaluate new colors and simplify panel design.
Unlike traditional  large-scale, expensive custom conjugates, new antibody-dye  combinations enabled by BD OptiBuild™ reagents are made on demand, and usually ship in less than 72 hours.
These reagents  come in 50-µg vials and can be ordered the same way as any  catalog reagent.
BD has introduced close to 7,500 BD OptiBuild™  reagents featuring the BD Horizon Brilliant™ dye family, enabling  scientists to construct optimal panels that support their  research goals.2020 goal Provide solutions that improve healthcare worker and patient safety Hospitals and clinics pose an inherently risky environment because of the high percentage of patients with communicable diseases.
With the increase in antimicrobial resistance, the need for infection prevention and control in the healthcare environment is  paramount, in addition to protecting healthcare workers from needlestick injuries and exposure to hazardous drugs.
We remain  committed to protecting healthcare workers and patients.
The acquisition of Bard has expanded our portfolio of products that ensure the safety of healthcare workers and patients.
We remain  dedicated to improving healthcare worker and patient safety through product improvements and new product development.
Some  examples of products that furthered our progress toward this goal in 2018 include:  BD® HD Check System  The BD® HD Check System is the first and only product that  enables healthcare professionals, such as pharmacists and  nurses, to identify hazardous drug surface contamination of  their workspaces in less than 10 minutes.
The BD® HD Check  System cuts testing time down so clinicians can have an answer  in minutes, not weeks, and is available on-site (i.e., within the hospital pharmacy).
The goal is that this rapid test will allow for  more routine monitoring of hazardous drug contamination, thus  ensuring a safe and healthy work environment for healthcare  professionals.
The product was released in FY2018 to test for  two drugs, with plans to expand the drug menu in the short  term.
This system was built on the BD Life Sciences–Diagnostic  Systems BD Veritor™ system, leveraging the reader and lateral  flow technology.
BD PhaSeal™ Optima System The BD PhaSeal™ Optima closed-system drug transfer device  (CSTD) helps improve healthcare worker safety by reducing the  risk of surface contamination to hazardous drugs.
Airtight and  leakproof, and built on the legacy of the BD PhaSeal™ CSTD, the BD PhaSeal™ Optima system mechanically prohibits the  transfer of environmental contaminants into the system and the  escape of drug vapor concentrations outside the system, thereby  minimizing individual and environmental exposure to drug  vapor, aerosols and spills.
The system prevents microbial ingress  for up to 168 hours and 10 penetrations within an ISO Class V  environment following aseptic technique.
Offering an intuitive,  one-step straight-push connection with no need for alignment or  orientation, components of the system are designed to optimize  clinical comfort and aid workflow integration.
The system is  also engineered to common International Organization for  Standardization (ISO) standards, simplifying connections with  luer fittings, standard-size drug vials and IV administration sets.
AccuCath Ace™ Intravascular Catheter The AccuCath Ace™ intravascular catheter is inserted into a  patient’s vascular system to sample blood, monitor blood  pressure or administer fluids intravenously.
The AccuCath Ace™  catheter integrates a coiled-tip nitinol guidewire, blood control  valve and needlestick safety features with a power-injectable  catheter.
Engineered to minimize the need for unnecessary  needle advancement that may lead to vessel damage and complications, the AccuCath Ace™ catheter's patented guidewire  technology was created to help navigate vessel anatomy  for atraumatic delivery.
When compared to conventional IV  catheters, the AccuCath Ace™ intravascular catheter system is  designed to increase first-attempt success, reduce complication  rates, extend dwell times, increase patient satisfaction and lower  overall costs to the provider.BD Nano™ PRO 4mm Pen Needles The BD Nano™ PRO 4mm pen needle (to be released as  BD Nano™ 2nd Gen in the United States) is a redesigned pen  needle offering greater patient safety when injecting insulin.
The  BD Medical–Diabetes Care pen needle design team recognized  significant variability in patients’ injection techniques, leading  to variable injection depth with risk of intramuscular insulin  administration, which can possibly result in hypoglycemia.23  Hypoglycemia is the most frequent complication of the diabetes  therapies, associated with adverse health consequences.24 This  led the team to redesign key features of the pen needle, which now offers greater reliability of subcutaneous injection depth  across a range of forces.
Consistent injection performance is  expected to reduce glycemic variability,24 allowing the patient  to achieve and maintain target glycemic control with lower  risk of complications.
The BD Nano™ PRO design also offers  ergonomic enhancements to allow for greater ease of use  and injection comfort, and is produced using 39% less plastic  resin than its predecessor.
This new generation of BD Nano™ pen  needle was initially released in FY2018 across Canada, and is  currently also being sold in France, Germany, Switzerland, South  Korea and Australia.
LifeStent™ 5F Vascular Stent System  The LifeStent™ 5F Vascular Stent System is the only SFA and full  popliteal artery FDA-approved stent.* The triaxial delivery system  is designed for ease of use, deployment control and precise  placement accuracy.25 It is part of the ProSeries™ suite of low-  profile product solutions, designed to minimize arteriotomy  size and enable a complete 5F femoropoliteal procedure.
Access site complications have been reported  to occur in up to 11% of peripheral vascular  interventions.26-28 Literature suggests that access site  complications may be minimized by reducing the sheath  profile.28-31 For more information regarding the LifeStent™   5F Vascular Stent System, click here.
AllPoints™ Port Access System The AllPoints™ port access systems are designed with  components that are presented in a step-by-step sequential  layout designed to aid clinicians  in their efforts toward promoting  consistency of care.
They are  designed to assist clinicians in  maintaining sterile technique, and include a sterile field designed to accommodate a variety of  workspace environments.
These systems are the only all-inclusive  port access kit that include the infusion needle.
More information  about the AllPoints™ port access systems can be found at  https://bardaccess.com/products/procedural/allpoints-port- access-systems.
*As of May 2019 in the U.S. market 23 Frid AH, Kreugel G, Grassi G, et al.
New insulin delivery recommendations.
Mayo Clin Proc.
2016;91(9):1231-1255.
24 American Diabetes Association.
Hypoglycemia (low blood glucose).
http://www.diabetes.org/living-with-diabetes/treatment-and-care/blood-glucose-control/hypoglycemia-low-blood.html.
Last edited February 11, 2019.
Accessed May 7, 2019.
25 Based on physician ratings during animal testing.
May not be indicative of clinical performance.
Data on file at Bard Peripheral Vascular, Inc., Tempe, AZ.
26 Hackl G, et al.
Vasc Endovascular Surg.
2015;49(7):160-165.
27 Das R, et al.
Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol.
2011;34(4):723-738.
28 Bhatty S, et al.
Interv Cardiol.
2011;3(4): 503-514.
29 Doyle BJ, et al.
JACC Cardiovasc Interv.
2008;1(2):202-209.
30 Metz D, et al.
Am Heart J.
1997;134(1):131-137.
31 Büchler JR, et al.
J Interv Cardiol.
2008;21(1):50-55.31Product quality and safety As BD continues to introduce innovative technologies, our robust  quality and regulatory management ensure we deliver to the  highest standards to the millions of people who use our products  each day.
Our Quality Policy guides us to consistently provide  superior products and services worldwide, achieved through customer focus, continuous improvement and maintaining an  effective quality system.
From our suppliers, we expect superior  levels of service, quality, cost effectiveness and innovation.
Finally, compliance with existing and emerging regulations is the  foundation of what we do.
Quality management and training Quality management plays a key role in our success by “making  quality certain." We are driven by our vision of an organization  where transactions are correct the first time, where efficient  and effective processes drive our competitiveness and where all  associates can successfully demonstrate the intent and spirit of  the Quality Policy.
Our quality systems help ensure compliance with applicable  global regulations and establish standards for product design,  manufacturing and distribution.
Prior to marketing or selling  most of our products, we must secure approval from the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and counterpart regulatory  agencies outside of the United States.
Once BD introduces a  product into the market, the FDA and counterpart regulatory agencies outside of the United States periodically review  our quality systems, product performance and promotional  materials.
We regularly analyze our quality processes and  specifications to ensure efficiency and effectiveness.
When an associate joins BD they complete training on the  quality and regulatory requirements for the medical device  industry as part of their orientation.
All associates receive the  required training to perform their roles and responsibilities  effectively.
In addition to procedural and on-the-job  training, BD provides supplemental training through its Quality  Academy on topics that include, but are not limited to, education  on creating and maintaining quality management systems that  comply with global standards and regulations.
ISO 13485 certification The ISO 13485 Medical Devices–Quality Management Systems  (QMS) standard is a set of quality management system  requirements for designing and manufacturing medical devices  (exceptions would include sites that only carry out research).
This standard was revised in 2016 and, as a result, all medical  device manufacturers with an ISO 13485 certified QMS were required to be recertified within 3 years of the release of the  revision, with this period ending March 2019.
BD had over  seventy-five (75) sites with ISO 13485 certificates that underwent  QMS recertification audits during 2017–2019.
All BD sites with  ISO 13485 certificates have been upgraded to 13485:2016.
Supplier management and audits In addition to designing quality into our products, it is essential  to implement best-in-class supplier quality programs.
The Global  Procurement function partners with the Quality function to  ensure that we clearly define the impact suppliers of materials  and services can have on BD products and put the appropriate  controls in place when selecting, approving and maintaining  our suppliers.
Our supplier management program oversees the quality and  safety practices of our 500 core suppliers that provide key  materials and services.
Our program focuses on four areas: • Performance management comprises the procedures  that govern how BD identifies, classifies and assesses the  qualifications of our suppliers, and manages our relationship  with each of them.• Supplier continuous improvement programs employ our  operational excellence methodologies (Lean and Six Sigma),  with specific vendors to define, plan and execute projects that  bring significant improvements in performance, savings and  overall value to BD.
• Supplier engagement is central to our ability to identify and  partner with suppliers capable of bringing innovation and new  technology to the market.
• Supply base risk management quantifies and mitigates  risks posed to our supply chains, such as business discontinuity,  financial liquidity, price fluctuations and pandemics.
In addition, we conduct quality systems assessments (QSAs)  for key suppliers, determined by both a fixed frequency and  the quality history of the supplier’s site.
QSAs ensure that the  facilities manufacturing materials or components we procure 32have quality systems in place to ensure the final product will  consistently comply with our specifications and adhere to all  regulatory requirements.
BD participates in the Medical Device  Single Audit Program (MDSAP), an international coalition to  jointly leverage regulatory resources to manage an efficient,  effective and sustainable single audit program focused on the  oversight of medical device manufacturers.
Participation in  this program will allow for the conduct of a single regulatory  audit of a medical device manufacturer's quality management system that satisfies the requirements of multiple regulatory  jurisdictions.
Certified Notified Bodies (e.g., BSI, NSAI) execute  audits.
The FDA is transitioning from the Quality System  Regulation (QSR) to ISO 13485 to better align with MDSAP .
As  of August 31, 2018, 2,711 MDSAP certificates have been issued to  industry.
MDSAP is recognized by Australia, the United States,  Brazil, Canada and Japan.
Learn more about our Procurement Strategy Regulatory compliance The Regulatory Affairs and Quality Compliance program at  BD encompasses all product-related regulatory processes, from  product concept through to obsolescence.
The Global Regulatory Affairs Monitoring Initiative (GRAMI), a  system that links all of our worldwide regulatory associates, is  set up to allow the global regulatory team members to monitor  changes in regulations, requirements and regulatory agency  policies that could affect BD operations and products.
The GRAMI team is comprised of BD regulatory professionals  with expertise in worldwide regulatory policy areas, including  compliance, product registrations, labeling standards and other  areas of pre- and post-approval regulatory requirements.
When changes are identified, they are communicated  to individuals in relevant business units, functions and  manufacturing sites who are part of the GRAMI notifications  system.
In addition, BD regulatory leaders in various regions  engage in meaningful dialogue with their regulators and trade  associations to seek better understanding, alignment and  improvements in regulatory requirements and processes that  affect BD as well as the regulated medical technology industry.
For information about legal proceedings regarding the marketing  and advertising of our products, please see our 2017 10-K.
Product marketing BD has procedures in place to ensure correct labelling,  advertising and promotion of our products.
Expectations are outlined in our Code of Conduct.
Enforcement action While we have implemented, and continue to improve upon,  programs and management systems around product quality  and safety, we are on occasion subject to enforcement action.
Below is an update of the more significant incidents, and our  responses, that occurred in FY2018.
Further information can be  found in our 10-k.
• In May 2017, the FDA conducted inspections at the BD Life  Sciences–Preanalytical Systems (“PAS”) facility in Franklin  Lakes, NJ.
In July 2017, the FDA issued a Form 483 to  BD PAS in connection with these inspections that contained  observations of nonconformance relating to quality system  regulations and medical device reporting relating to certain of  our BD Vacutainer® EDTA blood collection tubes.
On January  11, 2018, BD received a Warning Letter from the FDA, citing  certain alleged violations of quality system regulations and  of law.
The Warning Letter states that, until BD resolves the  outstanding issues covered by the Warning Letter, the FDA will  not clear or approve any premarket submissions for Class III  devices to which the nonconformances are reasonably related  or grant requests for certificates to foreign governments.
We submitted our response to the Warning Letter on January 31, 2018.
BD continues to work with the FDA to resolve  the issues noted in the Warning Letter.
• The FDA conducted an inspection of our facility located in  Franklin, WI (“BD Franklin site”), from May 16, 2018 through  August 1, 2018.
On August 1, 2018, the FDA issued a Form 483  to the BD Franklin site in connection with these inspections  that contained observations of nonconformance relating to  quality system regulations relating to certain prefilled heparin  lock flush syringes and prefilled 0.9% sodium chloride lock  flush syringes.
On September 14, 2018, BD received a Warning  Letter from the FDA, citing certain alleged violations of quality  system regulations and of law.
We submitted our response to  the Warning Letter on October 1, 2018.
We worked closely with  the FDA and implemented corrective actions to address the  concerns identified in the Warning Letter.
The FDA closed the  Warning Letter in a letter dated February 11, 2019.
BD continuously assesses its manufacturing footprint to  ensure the Company is best positioned to provide the  highest-quality products to customers in the most reliable  manner possible.
After a comprehensive analysis of flush  manufacturing operations, BD decided to consolidate flush 33manufacturing and move production volumes from the plant  in Franklin, WI, to other existing BD facilities.
This decision  resulted in BD ceasing production at the Franklin plant and the  Company permanently closed the facility in mid-March 2019.
In mid-January, BD informed customers of this decision.
BD is  working closely with customers who have been supplied by the  Franklin plant to arrange for them to transition to alternative  products from other BD flush manufacturing facilities in order  to minimize any impact on patient care.
• Our infusion pump organizational unit is operating under an  amended consent decree entered into by CareFusion with  the FDA in 2007.
CareFusion’s consent decree with the FDA  related to its Alaris™ SE infusion pumps.
In February 2009,  CareFusion and the FDA amended the consent decree to  include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for CareFusion  303, Inc., the organizational unit that manufactures and sells  infusion pumps in the United States.
The amended consent  decree does not apply to intravenous administration sets  and accessories.
While this BD organizational unit remains  subject to the amended consent decree, which includes the  requirements of the original consent decree, it has made substantial progress in its compliance efforts.
However, we  cannot predict the outcome of this matter, and the amended  consent decree authorizes the FDA, in the event of any  violations in the future, to order us to cease manufacturing  and distributing infusion pumps, recall products and take  other actions.
We may be required to pay damages of  $15,000 per day per violation if we fail to comply with any  provision of the amended consent decree, up to $15 million  per year.
We also cannot currently predict whether additional  monetary investment will be incurred to resolve this matter  or the matter’s ultimate impact on our business.
We may be  obligated to pay more costs in the future because, among  other things, the FDA may determine that we are not fully  compliant with the amended consent decree and therefore  impose penalties under the amended consent decree, and/ or we may be subject to future proceedings and litigation  relating to the matters addressed in the amended consent  decree.
As of September 30, 2018, we do not believe that a  loss is probable in connection with the amended consent  decree, and accordingly, we have no accruals associated with  compliance with the amended consent decree.
34Introduction BD believes in the vision of a world free of disease and needless suffering.
We think healthcare is so  fundamental it can create more productive, educated and equitable societies.
BD Global Health works to expand access and drive capacity building through partnerships with  leading organizations and governments.
We engage in advocacy with governments, donors, and health  agencies to advance innovations around the world to address the world’s leading public health needs,  which are highly aligned with the UN SDGs. The business model for emerging markets encourages our country leaders to understand the health  system priorities in their country and engage with key opinion leaders responsible for health policies  and practices.
This enables BD to engage at earlier stages in the healthcare decision-making process  and adapt our strategic plans for product array, manufacturing and talent accordingly.Access Healthcare in resource-limited  populations 2020 goal Develop low-cost innovations to address leading causes of mortality and morbidity Maternal and Newborn Health; Investigative BD Odon Device™ In FY2018, BD Global Health entered into partnership with  the PROMPT Maternity Foundation and the Bill & Melinda  Gates Foundation to assist in the conduct of clinical trials on  the investigative BD Odon Device™, which has received ethics  approval in the U.K. This investigative device is intended to  provide a safe and effective alternative for assisted vaginal  birth (AVB) when labor is prolonged or complicated, a condition  that occurs in approximately 10% of pregnancies.
Untreated,  prolonged/complicated labor can lead to serious complications  for mothers and babies, including postpartum hemorrhage,  perinatal asphyxia, maternal infection, fistulas or even death.This unique collaboration aims to bring much-needed innovation  to those who need it the most.
Maternal and newborn health  is a key component of UN Sustainable Development Goal 3 for  Good Health and Wellbeing.
Although WHO guidelines call for access to AVB at all facilities that provide basic management  of obstetric emergencies, a recent study in sub-Saharan Africa  showed that only 54% of hospitals and 6% of health centers were  able to conduct AVB in the past year.33,34 By driving forward the  investigative BD Odon Device™, this partnership is moving this  technology closer to in-field use.
10% of pregnancies   result in prolonged or complicated labor Only 54% of hospitals  and 6% of health centers were able to conduct AVB in the past year33,32 O’Mahony F, Hofmeyer GJ, Menon V.
Choice of instruments for assisted vaginal delivery.
O’Mahony F, editor.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev.
Chichester, UK: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd; 2010;(11):CD005455.
33  Pearson L, Larsson M, Fauveau V, Standley J.
Childbirth care.
In Lawn J, Kerber K, eds.
Opportunities for Africa’s newborns: Practical data policy and programmatic support for newborn care in Africa.
World Health Organization (WHO); 2006.
34 Bailey PE, van Roosmalen J, Mola G, Evans C, de Bernis L, Dao B.
Assisted vaginal delivery in low and middle income countries: an overview.
Br J Obstet Gynaecol.
2017;124(9):1335-1344.352020 goal Collaborate on strengthening health systems with leading agencies and NGOs Antimicrobial resistance—educate and advocate The role of diagnostics in the AMR response: an on-line course An online certificate course sponsored by BD is under development by the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM)  with advisory from a global group of experts.
The Massive Open On-Line Course (MOOC) is designed to increase awareness and  understanding of the role of diagnostics in the AMR response.
The online course will include six modules to address various aspects  of AMR, including high-priority pathogens as listed by the CDC and WHO, offered over 6 weeks.
A variety of teaching and learning  methods are employed, including news stories, reports, film/video, presentations, case studies and reference material for further  reading.
Discussion forums will be available for participants to interact with each other and will be moderated by faculty members  of LSHTM.
Upon completion, a certificate may be offered through LSHTM.
The course is intended for health professionals, faculty,  students and those interested in the public health aspects and control of antimicrobial resistance.36BD Global Health, PEPFAR and CDC public-private partnerships BD Global Health has established a series of partnerships with PEPFAR (The U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief) and the  U.S. CDC that include strengthening laboratory systems and upgrading clinical practices in phlebotomy, infusion and injection.
BD Global Health, PEPFAR and CDC Kenya partnership In FY2018 BD signed an memorandum of understanding (MOU) with CDC and PEPFAR for an infection prevention partnership  in Kenya, with a goal of training 1,000 healthcare workers and  impacting 1 million procedures in the areas of safe infusions,  injections and phlebotomy.
More than 20% of needlestick injuries in  Kenya occur from starting IVs or connecting  a syringe into an IV line.
BD Global Health  is working to expand a longstanding public- private partnership with PEPFAR, CDC and the  Kenya Ministry of Health to improve the safety of both patients  and healthcare workers in injections, infusions and blood  collection for the purposes of diagnosis and treatment.
This infection prevention partnership, called KINGA (the Kenya  Infection Prevention Global Collaboration for Advancement), will  leverage the expertise of BD associates from around the world  to serve as global heath fellows/infusion safety specialists and  conduct key activities.
The program will include baseline and  endline assessments, training and mentorship.
The BD Insyte™  Autoguard™ catheter will be used to demonstrate quality  improvement in peripheral infusion practices.
The program will also fund the development of a mobile version  of EPINet™ for needlestick injury surveillance.
This will allow  easier reporting of occupational injuries at the touch of a button  via a mobile phone application.
Working to upgrade clinical practice BD knows that the key to reducing complications is to combine the right products with correct clinical practice.
BD has developed a  curriculum on best practices for peripheral and central line infusion in partnership with the CDC, which will be rolled out in a train-the- trainer model.
BD subject matter experts will travel to Kenya to support the following activities: Baseline assessments Prior to implementing the training program, critical basline  data will be collected at target hospitals to understand the  current state of practice in the country.Train-the-trainer sessions BD specialists will spend 1 week co-leading a train-the- trainer course on best clinical practice for IV therapy  for 20–30 Kenyan clinicians, covering IV insertion, care  and maintenance.Facility-based mentoring BD trainers will visit facilities to help ensure  that the training curriculum is moving  from theory into practice.Product quality improvement study BD will provide the BD Insyte™ Autoguard™ Catheters  to demonstrate quality improvement in peripheral  infusion practices.
End-line assessments Upon conclusion, end-line assessments will  be conducted to demonstrate the impact  of our partnership.BD Global Health, U.S. CDC, PEPFAR, and Ministry of Health of Kyrgyzstan—phlebotomy initiative On June 1, 2018, BD, CDC, PEPFAR and the Ministry of Health  of Kyrgyzstan inaugurated a new center of excellence for  phlebotomy in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan as a culmination of a public- private partnership to build capacity for safe blood drawing  in Kyrgyzstan.
Drawing blood from patients is one of the most commonly  performed medical procedures in hospitals and clinics, and can  be associated with healthcare worker exposure to blood-borne  pathogens, including HIV and hepatitis.
In 2010, a national  assessment of injection practices in 80 Kyrgyz health facilities  found higher-than-expected rates of needlestick accidents and  risky occupational practices.
Given the increasing frequency of  blood-drawing procedures associated with Kyrgyzstan’s growing  HIV/AIDS response, it was vital that healthcare workers receive effective, evidence-based training to protect themselves and  their patients from occupational exposures, and to improve the  quality of specimens collected through blood draws.
In response, BD initiated the Safer Practices and Techniques for  Blood Drawing (SAPAT) program for safe phlebotomy training  in 2014 in Kyrgyzstan in partnership with CDC and PEPFAR.
The  training program includes classroom and practical training on  blood-drawing practices, as well as specimen handling and  safety measures to prevent needlestick injuries.
The curriculum  focuses on international best practices and quality assurance  strategies that can be adopted by facilities and individual  healthcare workers.
The Center of Excellence for Phlebotomy is the capstone of  this partnership.
Labs for Life  Our flagship partnership to strengthen laboratory systems in  high HIV/TB-burdened markets now spans more than a decade.
This partnership focuses on building strong laboratories with  quality systems compliant with ISO 15189.
Quality lab systems  are relevant in the HIV care continuum but are also relevant  to the Global Health Security Agenda, a growing partnership  established by leading governments to help build countries’  capacity to help create a world safe and secure from infectious  disease threats and elevate global health security as a national  and global priority.
In FY2018 we continued this partnership.
In this new phase, the countries included are Kenya, Ethiopia,  Uganda, India, Rwanda and Haiti.
This is the first year that  Rwanda and Haiti have been included in this work."I made some great ongoing  friendships while volunteering as a  BD Global Health Fellow as part of the  BD-PEFPAR Labs for Life partnership at  Our Lady of Consolata Kisubi Hospital  Laboratory—a faith-based hospital  laboratory between Entebbe and  Kampala—and I know that we have  helped Kisubi Hospital on their path to  providing the best quality healthcare  for their community.
Our knowledge  and skills can make a huge difference.
When we first arrived we identified  that the phlebotomy technique was a  major cause of patient discomfort and  poor sample quality for the laboratory.
Therefore, we trained on best practice  blood collection to improve patient  experience and the lab’s ability to  produce accurate results."  —Brendan Meyer, European Clinical Manager,  Preanalytical Systems, BD and 2019 Labs For Life  BD Global Health Fellow in Uganda3835  Helm RE, Klausner JD, Klemperer JD, Flint LM, Huang E.
Accepted but unacceptable: peripheral IV catheter failure.
J Infus Nurs.
2015;38(3):189-203.
36  Wallis MC, McGrail M, Webster J, et al.
Risk factors for peripheral intravenous catheter failture: a multivariate analysis of data from a randomized controlled trial.
Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol.
2014;35(1):63-68.35–50% of patients experience  an IV catheter failure,35  which is costly to  patients, caregivers  and healthcare workers  1 in peripheral IV  catheters experience  a complication,35  including  inflammation, brusing,  and infection.36of hospital patients  get peripheral IV  catheter for diagnosis  or treatment.3590%Globally,  over Infection prevention partnerships Infusion-related infection is a threat to both healthcare providers and patients.
Many  factors are responsible, but comprehensive training is needed to improve intravenous  care.
BD has launched infection prevention partnerships in order to train nurses on safe  infusion practices, most recently with Project HOPE in China.
BD Global Health and Project HOPE partnership China has one of the highest rates of infusion per person in the world, and treatment  via intravenous therapy is extremely commonplace.
While China is a leader in infusion  practice, in Western China, many procedures are still conducted using a steel needle  rather than the best-practice, IV catheter.
Improper use of steel needles for IV therapy  can lead to increased pain and higher rates of complications.
Improving care and reducing infection  In FY2018, BD signed an agreement to address these challenges with long-term partner  Project HOPE for a multiyear initiative to reduce infusion-related infections among  healthcare providers and patients in four provinces in Western China: Yunnan, Sichuan,  Qinghai and Hubei.
Combining clinical expertise with core training competencies  This partnership educates nurses on safe infusion practices and aims at improving  clinical capabilities in real-life practice with a direct effect on patient and healthcare  worker safety.
In this collaboration, experts from BD and a team of nurse leaders from Western  China will conduct baseline assessments and roll out a train-the-trainer model to  institutionalize best practices at all levels, from tertiary hospitals to community  health centers.39BD Global Health and U.S. Agency for International  Development Partnership In 2017, BD entered into an agreement with the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to address drug-resistant TB  patients in select high-burden countries.
The agreement includes increasing access to existing and new diagnostic technologies and  launching an awareness campaign to promote adherence to high-quality testing.
This partnership, called STRIDES (Strengthening TB  Resistance Testing and Diagnostic Systems to End MDR-TB) builds on our previous partnership with USAID, which began in 2014, to  strengthen labs in order to improve national capacity for TB testing in Indonesia.
We officially launched this partnership in India in 2018.
India has the highest TB burden  globally, at 27%.
BD Global Health Fellows trained 31 microbiologists from 13 states  on best practices, troubleshooting and recent developments in liquid culture drug  susceptibility testing.
STRIDES:   Strengthening TB Resistance Testing and   Diagnostic Systems to End MDR-TB high-priority TB countries  through gap assessment,  training and mentorships:  Indonesia, Kazakhstan,  Philippines, Burma, India,  China, Pakistan, Ukraine,  Nigeria, South AfricaPartnership inSource: USAIDOn average in   these 10 countries,   of lab- confirmed RR/MDR TB  samples are not tested  for SL resistance50%402020 goal Further expand BD manufacturing, product array and employment in emerging countries Emerging market revenues were $2.53 billion, $1.95 billion and  $1.9 billion in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Foreign currency  translation favorably impacted emerging market revenues in  2018 by an estimated $19 million and unfavorably impacted  emerging market revenues in 2017 by an estimated $29 million.
Emerging market revenue growth in 2018 benefited from the  inclusion of revenues associated with Bard products in our  financial results.
Underlying growth was particularly driven by  sales in China and EMA.
We continue to pursue growth opportunities in emerging  markets, which include the following geographic regions: Eastern  Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and certain  countries within Asia Pacific.
We are primarily focused on certain  countries whose healthcare systems are expanding.Emerging markets continue to be  a key growth driver for BD.
Our  continued momentum in China  and broader emerging markets  is reflected in our strong FY2018  performance in both segments.
Project highlight: Advanced Molding Center opened in Greater Asia BD recently opened our first Advanced Molding Center in  Asia, built within our facility in Tuas, Singapore.
The Center is a  flagship plastic molding manufacturing facility for BD in Asia,  and is one of the largest and most sophisticated plastic molding  plants in the world for BD.
This Center will centralize and insource  a majority of Greater Asia plastic molding production and  will help elevate our competency in manufacturing in Greater  Asia with the use of data analytics to track the manufacturing  process, allowing for more accurate and consistent output of high-quality plastic components that are essential for the  manufacturing of medical products.
The opening of the Advanced Molding Center is part of our  manufacturing strategy in Singapore that will see BD advance  in process, technology and organization, with a key focus on  attracting new talent to the organization.
BD is focusing on  three areas—automation, digitization and intelligence— which will result in the increased use of smart technologies,  including artificial intelligence (AI) and robotics, within our  manufacturing operations.
Project highlight: Project Tang Studies show that needlestick injury is one of the most life- threatening occupational risks to hospital nurses in China, with  over 139.5 needlestick injuries per 1,000 nurses.37 In an effort  to prevent these injuries and improve the convenience of pen  needle use for hospital nurses, BD initiated “Project Tang” in  FY2018.
This project seeks to provide one device that allows  for both loading a pen needle onto the insulin injection pen  in preparation for use and removing of the pen needle in a specialized container once it has been used—at no cost to the  hospital.
Over the course of FY2018, BD developed this market- specific solution that allows for single-handed assembly of  pen needles before use and single-handed recapping of used  needles, based on customer input, and received regulatory  approval.
Starting in FY2019, the Tang device will be progressively  introduced into the market with a pilot phase before scaling up  across China.
37 Zhao F, Zhang M, Xuan J, et al.
A large-scale cross-sectional survey  on needle stick injuries related to injections of antidiabetics in China:  incidence and infection rates.
Value in Health.
2018;21(suppl.
1):S72.41Introduction We understand that the health of the planet is linked to the health of people, and reducing our impact  on the environment supports our Purpose of advancing the world of health ™.
With continuing pressure  on natural resources and the predicted impacts of climate change, it is imperative that we continue to  increase the resilience of our operations and explore opportunities for environmental improvements  across our value chain.
By partnering more closely with suppliers, customers and peers we can address  some of the world's most pressing environmental issues more broadly than we could on our own.Efficiency Environmentally sound products  and resilient operations Status of performance against 2020 goals In FY2018, BD continued to make progress toward our 2020 efficiency goals.
Due to ongoing integration activities, data from Bard facilities has been excluded from data in this section (unless noted).
We are in the process of completing data collection from Bard locations and will report their data in FY2019.2020 goal Reduce Scope 1 & 2 GHG   emissions by 50% Current status FYReduced by 75%2020 goal Reduce volatile organic compound  (VOC) and hazardous air pollution  (HAP) emissions by 65% Current status FYReduced by 31%2020 goal Reduce ozone-depleting   substance emissions by 95% Current status FYReduced by 64%Emissions 2020 goal Increase use of  renewable energy  to 50% of total energy Current status FY45% of total energy2020 goal Reduce energy  consumption by 40% Current status FYReduced by 32%Energy 2020 goal Reduce total waste   by 50% Current status FYReduced by 33%2020 goal Reduce hazardous waste    by more than 60% Current status FYReduced by 46%Waste 2020 goal Increase diversion rate   to over 85%   Current status FYIncreased to 83% 2020 goal Increase recycling  rate to over 70% Current status FYIncreased to 66%2020 goal Reduce water  consumption by 40% Current status FYReduced by 47%Recycling Water consumption42GHG emissions Our absolute Scope 1 emissions rose in FY2018.
This due in part to increase in production, but also due to the use of propane and  diesel generators at our facilities in Puerto Rico following hurricane Maria.
Scope 2 emissions continue to fall due to our continued  commitment to increasing resilience through on-site generation and use of renewable energy though on-site solar power and the  purchase of Renewable Energy Credits.
Measurement and UOM FY2008  baselineFY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FYGHG emissions—Scope 1 and Scope 1 absolute (metric  tonnes CO2-e)86,139 87,184 88,173 81,952 80,258 77,086 74,465 73,881 74,215 88,498  98,252  Scope 1 normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS)18 18 17 15 15 14 12 13 11 14  13  Scope 2 absolute (metric  tonnes CO2-e)460,842 430,196 357,845 337,123 282,711 239,344 217,260 184,367 164,304 133,520  121,161  Scope 2 normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS)97 91 70 63 51 42 36 33 25 22  16  Total absolute (metric tonnes CO2-e) 546,981 517,380 446,018 419,075 362,970 316,430 291,725 258,248 238,520 222,018  219,413  Total normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS)115 109 87 79 66 56 48 46 37 36  29  2020 Goal: reduce Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions by 50% (normalized to Cost of Products Sold [COPS]).
Current status: reduced by 75% Data represents Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect from electricity) energy sources.
GRI disclosure: 305-1, 305-2, 305-42020 goal Reduce GHG emissions and increase climate resilience throughout operations and value chain.43Measurement and UOM FY2016 FY2017 FYGHG emissions—Scope 3 GHG emissions (absolute) (metric tonnes Co2-e) Purchased goods and services 966,282 1,069,505  1,065,132  Capital goods 42,728 37,691  39,602  Fuel- and-energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) 39,222 33,976  24,912  Upstream transportation and distribution 72,640 125,904  280,6361  Waste generated in operations 9,641 9,996  11,446  Business travel 86,583 108,937  117,123  Employee commuting 102,232 73,195  83,829  Upstream leased assets 27,094 47,011  32,299  Downstream transportation and distribution Not relevant2Not relevant2Not relevantProcessing of sold products Not relevant2Not relevant2Not relevantUse of sold products 263,924 298,638  326,682  End-of-life treatment of sold products Not disclosed3Not disclosed3Not disclosedDownstream leased assets Not relevant2Not relevant2Not relevantFranchises Not relevant2Not relevant2Not relevantInvestments Not relevant2Not relevant2Not relevant2020 goal: Establish scope 3 GHG emission baselines for categories applicable to BD.
Current status: We provided limited reporting of Scope 3 emissions in  previous years and in FY2018 we continued to work with external partners to establish baseline Scope 3 emissions across all categories.
This information will be  used to inform future strategy.
2020 goal: Initiate climate resilience planning for BD facilities.
Current status: As the devastating hurricanes across the United States in 2017 demonstrated,  resilience planning for extreme weather events is essential to ensure operations are restored as quickly as possible.
Work has been carried out to deepen our  understanding of potential risks to our supply chain and operations, to ensure potential impacts are mitigated or reduced.
Further work is being carried out in  FY2019 to understand risks and opportunities associated with climate change.
1 The increase in emissions for transportation and distribution is due to the availability of a larger data set and resulting change to methodology.
2 Relevance based on 1% threshold relative to total Scope 3 emissions inventory.
Determined this category to be not relevant to the Company’s business activities and did not estimate the  associated GHG emissions.
3 Upon review of the source data used to calculate this category, some errors were identified that potentially affected the accuracy of the data previously reported.
We are in the process of  recalculating emissions for this category and plan to report data in subsequent reports.
GRI disclosure: 305-Further information about our climate change strategy and programs to reduce GHG emissions can be found in our responses to the  CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project).
BD has reported to the CDP since its inception in 2003.
Throughout FY2019 we will be assessing our climate management program and disclosures against the recommendations of the Task  Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).442020 goal Minimize our environmental footprint and conserve natural resources In FY2018, we continued to invest in on-site power generation and identify opportunities to reduce our environmental footprint  across all sites.
Solar  In FY2018, we completed two on-site solar installations.
The BD manufacturing plant in Canaan, CT , completed  installation of the largest solar electricity generation system  within BD and the largest for a manufacturer in the state of  Connecticut.
The 2,655-kilowatt system is comprised of 6,400  ground and roof-mounted panels that work together to produce  a total of 3.5 megawatts of electricity annually (enough  to provide power to 324 average-sized U.S. homes).
This is  approximately 7.7% of the annual usage in the Canaan site.
The second phase of this project will expand the overall size and  output of the existing rooftop solar array and is expected to be  completed in 2019.In collaboration with several external partners, our BD European  headquarters in Eysins, Switzerland installed solar panels on  the roof of their leased building.
As part of this project, 550  solar panels were installed on the site, covering all 900 m2  of available roof space.
At peak operation, these panels can  generate 167,750 kilowatt hours of energy per year—enough to  power 25 households in Switzerland.
The project also includes a  power purchase agreement that allows the site to purchase any  additional energy needs from renewable sources, thus ensuring  that this site is run on 100% renewable energy.
Through this  agreement, energy that the solar panels generate that isn’t being  used (for instance on weekends or holidays) will be sold back to  the energy provider.
Combined heat and power We currently have four facilities with combined heat and power  (CHP) generation capabilities, the latest being completed at  the end of 2018 in Drogheda, Ireland.
This CHP unit generates  1.5 megawatts of power—that’s enough to power over 300  average-sized homes for a year—and provides 75% of the plant’s  electrical usage.
The CHP unit will also reduce Drogheda’s reliance on the power  grid, which increases the site’s energy resilience; by producing our  own energy on-site, we avoid peaks in energy demand and are able to continue to operate in situations causing energy outages,  such as extreme weather.
BD continues to evaluate solutions  such as CHP , solar PV, solar hot water and fuel cells to fulfill our  sustainability goals and build energy resilience into our sites.
In the United States, we continue to participate in U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) programs.
We report our  use of renewable energy to the Green Power Partnership and are  a SmartWay® Transport Partner.
Energy Our energy consumption has risen in absolute terms, driven  by an increase in production at our facilities and increased  heating due to seasonal weather demands.
However, when  normalized, consumption fell by 32% from our baseline year.
Our commitment to renewable energy continues, with a slight increase in the amount of electric power obtained from green  energy (such as solar power) and the purchase of Renewable  Energy Credits here in the United States, where 95% of our  electricity needs were provided from renewable sources.
45Measurement and UOM FY2008  baseline FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FYTotal energy consumption Scope 1 absolute   (GJ)1,612,680 1,637,978 1,651,631 1,537,598 1,497,646 1,383,635 1,402,728 1,392,115 1,397,783 1,693,681 1,885,488  Scope 1 normalized   (GJ per $M COPS)339 346 323 289 271 245 231 249 215 275 245  Scope 2 absolute   (GJ)3,445,539 3,406,771 3,494,912 3,546,681 3,519,173 3,544,498 3,603,519 3,561,303 3,607,165 3,543,932 3,648,781  Scope 2 normalized   (GJ per $M COPS)725 719 684 666 637 628 593 637 556 576 474  Total absolute (GJ) 5,058,219 5,044,749 5,146,543 5,084,279 5,016,819 4,928,133 5,006,247 4,953,418 5,004,948 5,237,613 5,534,269  Total normalized   (GJ per $M COPS)1,064 1,064 1,007 954 908 874 824 887 771 851 719  2020 Goal: reduce energy consumption by 40% (normalized by Cost of Products Sold [COPS]).
Current status: reduced by 32% Data represents Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect from electricity) energy sources.
Renewable energy (RECs, green power) Electric power  consumed (GJ)3,395,768 3,367,530 3,457,703 3,509,566 3,480,121 3,523,349 3,590,057 3,543,512 3,590,931 3,534,058 3,604,725  Green power  consumed (GJ)104,745 161,475 181,361 264,315 226,065 188,872 120,820 117,737 267,569 454,256 455,994  Renewable energy credit  (REC) purchased (GJ)19,616 133,412 570,815 670,714 1,012,696 1,318,215 1,504,618 1,758,398 1,861,873 1,891,327 2,008,224  Grand total (GJ) 3,520,130 3,662,418 4,209,878 4,444,596 4,718,882 5,030,437 5,215,495 5,419,647 5,720,372 5,879,641 6,068,943  As part of electric power consumption % of electric power   via REC purchases1% 4% 17% 19% 29% 37% 42% 50% 52% 54% 56% % of electric power  sourced from  green energy and  REC purchases4% 9% 22% 27% 36% 43% 45% 53% 59% 66% 68% Total green power and  REC purchased (GJ)124,362 294,888 752,176 935,030 1,238,761 1,507,088 1,625,438 1,876,135 2,129,442 2,345,583 2,464,As part of total energy % of total energy  consumption from  REC purchases0% 3% 11% 13% 20% 27% 30% 35% 37% 36% 36% % of total energy  consumption from  green energy and  REC purchases2% 6% 15% 18% 25% 31% 32% 38% 43% 45% 45% 2020 Goal: Increase renewable energy consumption by 50% of total energy (absolute).
Current status: increased by 45% GRI disclosure: 302-1, 302-3, 302-446Measurement and UOM FY2008  baseline FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FYWater consumption Absolute (cubic meters) 5,343,732 4,802,520 4,307,169 4,337,638 4,445,804 4,532,445 4,808,851 5,010,052 4,950,713 4,516,838 4,552,752  Normalized (cubic   meters per $M COPS)1,125 1,013 843 814 805 803 791 897 763 734 591  2020 Goal: reduce water consumption by 40% (normalized by Cost of Products Sold (COPS)).
Current status: reduced by 47% Waste water discharge Absolute (cubic meters) 4,063,515 3,714,231 3,092,729 3,125,696 3,254,063 3,387,555 3,684,822 3,603,491 3,503,209 3,261,378 3,571,635  Normalized (cubic meters  per $M COPS)855 784 605 587 589 600 606 645 540 530 464  % discharged (of total  consumption)76% 77% 72% 72% 73% 75% 77% 72% 71% 72% 78%Water We continue to decrease water consumption through various  projects in addition to ongoing water conservation efforts.
While there was a slight increase in absolute terms in water  consumption, when normalized to COPS, water consumption  continued to fall.Further information about our water management strategy and  programs can be found in our responses to the CDP .
GRI disclosure: 303-1, 306-147Measurement and UOM FY2008  baseline FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FYTotal nonhazardous waste generated Absolute (metric tonnes) 51,078 47,791 49,635 50,609 48,622 47,487 46,106 45,375 50,979 47,719 55,386  Normalized (metric  tonnes per $M COPS)10.75 10.08 9.71 9.50 8.80 8.42 7.58 8.12 7.85 7.76 7.19  2020 Goal: reduce total waste by 50% (normalized by Cost of Products Sold [COPS]).
Current status: reduced by 33% Nonhazardous waste landfilled Absolute (metric tonnes) 24,107 23,707 19,913 15,545 13,356 12,267 9,363 8,229 9,654 9,601 9,371  Normalized (metric  tonnes per $M COPS)5.07 5.00 3.90 2.92 2.42 2.17 1.54 1.47 1.49 1.56 1.22  % nonhazardous  waste landfilled47% 50% 40% 31% 27% 26% 20% 18% 19% 20% 17% % nonhazardous waste  diverted from landfill53% 50% 60% 69% 73% 74% 80% 82% 81% 80% 83% 2020 Goal: increase diversion rate by over 85% (absolute as % of total nonhazardous waste).
Current status: increased by 83% Nonhazardous waste incinerated Absolute (metric tonnes) 5,096 3,226 3,228 3,198 2,998 4,156 4,231 3,550 5,980 6,295 7,585  Normalized (metric  tonnes per $M COPS)1.07 0.68 0.63 0.60 0.54 0.74 0.70 0.64 0.92 1.02 0.99  % incinerated 10% 7% 7% 6% 6% 9% 9% 8% 12% 13% 14% Nonhazardous waste recycled Absolute (metric tonnes) 21,678 20,677 25,788 30,362 31,409 30,377 31,485 32,380 34,228 30,850 36,676  Normalized (metric  tonnes per $M COPS)4.56 4.36 5.04 5.70 5.68 5.38 5.18 5.80 5.27 5.02 4.76  % recycled 42% 43% 52% 60% 65% 64% 68% 71% 67% 65% 66% 2020 Goal: increase recycling rate by over 70% (absolute as % of total nonhazardous waste).
Current status: increased by 66% Regulated waste (biohazardous and controlled waste) Absolute (metric tonnes) 196 181 707 1504 858 687 1028 1216 1117 974 Normalized (metric  tonnes per $M COPS)0.04 0.04 0.14 0.28 0.16 0.12 0.17 0.22 0.17 0.16 0.23  Hazardous waste generation Absolute (metric tonnes) 2,853 2,219 2,617 2,141 2,300 2,507 2,747 2,871 3,154 2,352 2,499  Normalized (metric  tonnes per $M COPS)0.60 0.47 0.51 0.40 0.42 0.44 0.45 0.51 0.49 0.38 0.32  2020 Goal: reduce hazardous waste by more than 60% (normalized by Cost of Products Sold [COPS]).
Current status: reduced by 46% GRI disclosure: 306-2Waste This year we are reporting regulated waste generation and have  included this in the metrics; data has been restated back to our  baseline year.
We have seen a rise in waste in absolute terms,  driven by increased production.
However, we have improved landfill diversion and waste recycled,  and while the amount of hazardous waste has increased slightly  (due to unplanned production waste), when normalized to COPS  performance has improved.48Air emissions  Measurement and UOM FY2008  baseline FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FYVOC emissions Absolute (metric tonnes) 202 139 116 113 134 123 139 138 149 190 216  Normalized (metric  tonnes per $M COP)0.042 0.029 0.023 0.021 0.024 0.022 0.023 0.025 0.023 0.031 0.028  HAP emissions Absolute (metric tonnes) 15 13 23 23 18 17 14 12 16 23 25  Normalized (metric  tonnes per $M COP)0.0032 0.0028 0.0044 0.0044 0.0032 0.0031 0.0023 0.0022 0.0024 0.0038 0.0033  VOC + HAP emissions Absolute (metric tonnes) 217 152 138 137 152 141 153 150 165 213 241  Normalized (metric  tonnes per $M COP)0.046 0.032 0.027 0.026 0.028 0.025 0.025 0.027 0.025 0.035 0.2020 Goal: reduce VOC and HAPs emissions by 65% (normalized by Cost of Products Sold [COPS]) Current status: reduced by 31% Ozone-depleting substances emissions Absolute (metric tonnes) 322 274 249 254 235 236 228 218 195 185 190  Normalized (metric  tonnes per $M COP)0.068 0.058 0.049 0.048 0.043 0.042 0.038 0.039 0.030 0.030 0.025  2020 Goal: reduce ozone-depleting substance emissions by 95% (normalized by Cost of Products Sold [COPS]) Current status: reduced by 64% 2020 Goal:  100% elimination of use of HCFC141b in manufacturing.
Current status: While a number of our facilities have completed conversion plans and  eliminated the use of hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC), we continue to make progress implementing conversion plans at remaining facilities and  expect to complete all conversions as scheduled.
GRI disclosure: 305-6, 305-7492020 goal Establish supplier responsibility evaluation methodology Supplier risk management continues to be a focus area for BD.
As a company, we are taking significant steps to assess and  monitor our suppliers against various risks that not only can  have significant financial impact, but also can disrupt our ability  to deliver critical products to the healthcare market.
We have  developed a robust assessment process to identify our “Critical  to Healthcare” products, which is being implemented into our  risk model.* Our supplier risk program takes a quantifiable  approach to assess both likelihood of a disruption event and the  impact of it.
We continue to work cross-functionally to mitigate these risks.
With the acquisition of C.R. Bard, we are focusing  our efforts on enhancing and expanding the current risk model  to address supply disruption risks for all our business units.
Additionally, we are piloting a proactive risk event monitoring  service that provides us with a centralized approach to assessing  events around the world that may impact our supply chain.
The program will continue to evolve over the coming years by  broadening the scope of suppliers under risk management and  leveraging sophisticated technologies to aid us in the program.
Supplier diversity program Supplier diversity encompasses more than simply tracking  spending or “doing the right thing”—it supports our business  objectives.
Being committed to supplier diversity entails  developing and implementing strategies that ensure our supply  base aligns with the diverse customers and communities we  serve, as well as the diverse markets we seek.Further details on our Supplier Diversity Program can be  found on our website.
Supplier Diversity Program: percent of spend by designation Diversity percent of eligible spend by designations tracked0%10%20%30%40%50% Total diverse spend Diﬀerently abled owned Veteran owned Minority/woman owned Minority owned Woman owned FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 FYFor information about supply chain due diligence and transparency, see the compliance section of our sustainability website.
https://www.bd.com/en-us/company/sustainability-at-bd/corporate-policies-and-resources-for-suppliers.
Data does not include Bard.
*Products are assessed using a set of five criteria, including criticality to the delivery of healthcare, the availability of alternative products or methods, and the potential impact to patient safety.502020 goal Eliminate priority materials of concern in specified product categories.
Chemicals management Our Materials of Concern (MOC) list serves as our policy that  addresses the reduction of MOC across our portfolio.
The list  contains both regulated and nonregulated substances that are  MOC for BD and is updated twice a year.
It includes substances  the Company has put special emphasis on—for example, PVC  and phthalates—and those that BD has chosen to avoid and/or  eliminate from its products and packaging.
BD carefully considers the potential impact of the materials  we use in our products and packaging and considers customer  preferences related to chemicals of concern in finished goods.
In  order to monitor the changing landscape around chemicals of  high concern among customers, regulatory bodies and advocacy  groups, BD established a Chemical Review Board in 2013.
This  internal board, led by our Director of Global Product Stewardship,  includes representation from R&D for each of our business units  and functional expertise from toxicology and procurement.
This group is equipped to evaluate the feasibility of alternative  materials, provide guidance to R&D within the Company and  leverage material expertise across the organization to accelerate  our work to eliminate priority MOC.
While our 2020 Sustainability Goals related to the elimination  of priority MOC do not specifically reference safer alternatives,  internal work processes (such as the Chemical Review Board) exist  to manage that aspect of chemicals management.
At the corporate level, BD has a Global Product Stewardship  function, led by a Director of Global Product Stewardship and Director of Global Product Stewardship Compliance.
The Global  Product Stewardship function reports to the VP of Environment,  Health & Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S); the VP EHS&S  reports to the Company’s Executive VP Integrated Supply Chain.
The Global Product Stewardship team is in place to monitor  changing global environmental regulations affecting our product  portfolio (including chemicals of high concern) and provide  governance over compliance activities carried out by our business  units.
The Global Product Stewardship team also administers  our system of collecting information from suppliers through a  dedicated team of supply base compliance associates.
The team  also maintains our MOC list, and owns the central database used  to manage chemical information at the product portfolio level.
The Global Product Stewardship team, and in turn our EHS&S  function, are accountable for the Company’s overall system of  chemicals management and are responsible for governance  over compliance with product environmental regulations such as  REACH and RoHS.
Following the acquisition of Bard, we are currently evaluating our  expanded portfolio against our 2020 product stewardship goals.
Our MOC list and materials for suppliers are available at   https://www.bd.com/en-us/company/sustainability-at-bd/ corporate-policies-and-resources-for-suppliers.
Chemical footprint project BD actively engages in dialogue with our customers and  advocacy groups to understand their position on the use of  safer chemicals, for consideration in our work to eliminate  priority MOC.
This engagement includes our continued response to the  Chemical Footprint Project.
The mission of the Chemical  Footprint Project is to transform global chemical use by  measuring and disclosing data on business progress to safer  chemicals.
It provides a tool for benchmarking companies as  they select safer alternatives and reduce their use of chemicals  of high concern.
As in previous years, we have chosen to make  our response public.BD is working to eliminate priority materials  of concern* in each of the following  product categories: Devices: PVC and phthalates Instruments: phthalates, brominated  flame retardants (BFRs) and heavy metals Packaging: PVC and expanded polystyrene * intentionally added512020 goal Improve lifecycle impacts of current and future products BD continues to focus efforts on improving the lifecycle impacts of our products.
In 2018, we continued our engagement with the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council (HPRC) both in the United States and the  European Union, and the Sustainable Healthcare Coalition (SHC) in Europe.
The activities we undertake as part of our engagement  with these entities support, among other projects, our efforts to limit and minimize waste produced during the lifecycle of our products.
BD recovery center In 2012, we established a process at our facility in San Diego  to manage the end of life disposal of products from the  BD Pyxis™ portfolio, by recovering materials and components for  refurbishment or recycling.
Upon return to the facility, the units are carefully taken apart;  certain items, such as drawers, are returned to the original  manufacturer.
Electronic parts are returned to our Tijuana,  Mexico, facility for recovery operations.
Other nonelectrical  items, such plastics, are sold for recycling.
The remaining shell is  inspected before being refurbished and reused.
In FY2018, this process diverted over 3,000 tons of waste material from landfills;  since FY2012, over 15,000 tons of waste material have been  diverted.
In addition, this project has generated significant cost  savings for BD.
We will continue to explore opportunities to improve the   end-of-life disposal options for products through programs such  as this.
Where product take-back is not appropriate or viable, we  will look to alternatives—such cross-industry partnerships found  in HPRC—to make progress on our goal of improving the life  cycle impacts of our products.52Introduction We profoundly respect that what we do is for the good of people.
That’s why BD associates work with  humanity and kindness across cultures, regions and relationships.
It is the behavior that is necessary to  be responsible global citizens.
It is what it means to care.Empowerment Positive workforce and  community impacts 2020 goal Increase the diversity of our workplace, particularly in leadership roles.
Our focus is on furthering Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) at BD to  drive innovation, to better understand patient and customer  needs, and to make BD the best possible place for all people  to work.
Creating a culture of individual belonging, building  and engaging diverse teams and leveraging the unique ideas,  backgrounds and experiences of our associates will deliver better  outcomes for our global marketplace.
At BD, furthering Inclusion  & Diversity is not just the right thing to do—it is both a cultural  priority and a strategic imperative.
This year, we further demonstrated our commitment by  creating and staffing a vice president role within our Inclusion  & Diversity organization.
The WW VP of Inclusion & Diversity is  responsible for: • The Company’s inclusion and diversity strategy in full  alignment with the Company’s Purpose and strategic  business objectives • Implementing and executing the organization’s inclusion  and diversity initiatives and programs to ensure that BD has  a diverse talent pipeline at the senior leadership levels of the  Company and delivers on our inclusion goals • Partnering closely with the CHRO, senior Company executives  and leaders, Human Resources business partners and COEs,  Global Inclusion Council and Associate Resource Group (ARG)  leaders to advance and strengthen our inclusion and diversity  efforts and leadership pipeline The I&D team works with our business, functional and regional  leaders, Council, ARGs and Human Resources.
Together, they  plan, develop and direct strategies to more effectively recruit,  develop and retain the Company’s diverse workforce.
The strategic pillars of our Inclusion & Diversity framework  continue to include: Intensify commitment—launching a Global Inclusion  Council comprised of highly influential, next-generation  leaders to facilitate action and drive change for their business,  region or function Build pipeline—launching a pilot development program to  accelerate the readiness of diverse internal pipeline talent  Reshape workplace—completing a workplace fairness  assessment of all talent processes and policies to refresh  our offerings, starting with a launch of a global Flexible  Workplace Policy  Create mindset—expanding our unconscious bias education to  conscious inclusion education Set goals and measure outcomes—analyzing results from  our annual Voice of Associate (VoA) survey.
This will inform the  strategic actions we take to continuously improve our culture and  better address the needs of all associates53We furthered our strategic framework for Inclusion & Diversity  this year by establishing a Global Inclusion Council, made up of  leaders from every business, region and function within BD, with  our CEO, Vince Forlenza, as the executive sponsor.
The purpose of  the Council is to: • Partner with leaders to build and execute action plans at the  business, functional and regional levels  • Define processes and challenge barriers to inclusion in  key areas of focus and identify ideas for new strategically  aligned efforts  • Understand key external best practices, determine how BD can  potentially leverage and align on metrics and measures, and  measure progress  Individually, each council member worked within his/her  respective organization to develop an inclusion plan for FY2019,  consisting of customized goals and metrics to guide the  organization’s I&D efforts and establish accountability.This year, we also devoted efforts toward broadening the  reach and impact of our ARGs. Each ARG has developed an  annual plan that aligns with our Inclusion & Diversity strategy,  including identifying opportunities to deliver impact and value  to our businesses.
At a corporate level, we established key driver goals (KDG)  specific to leading indicators of I&D.
These metrics will be  reviewed at regular intervals with both the Management  Committee and the board of directors.
Additionally, we  established pilot development programs for diverse talent, which  will be evaluated and measured over the course of the year for its  efficacy for our associates.
In summary, we have continued to make good progress in  effecting change in our culture with respect to I&D over the past  few years, with a forward-looking focus on increased internal and  external communication, enhanced diverse talent acquisition  efforts, expanded diverse leadership development, and improved  governance of our global I&D model.
Serving   190+   countriesMore than    65,000  associates38 This number includes Bard associates.
Inclusion and diversity—strategic framework Incorporate inclusion and  diversity into everyday  conversations and  behaviors while remaining  accountable for meaningful  change through role  modelingIntensify commitment Equip and educate leaders  and adapt regionally relevant,  family-friendly policies and  programs for new ways to get  work done in support of a  more engaged and dynamic  workplace for all associatesReshape workplaceCreate a competitive  business advantage through  increased leadership focus on  attraction, development  and retention of diverse  associatesBuild pipeline Build inclusion and diversity  as a critical element of our  success, training and  developing associates to  bring about lasting and  meaningful changeCreate mindsetIntensify commitmentBuild pipelineCreate mindset Reshape workspace Set the highest-level Company  benchmark, collect, analyze  and act on data on hiring,  retention, succession and  employee perception while  holding ourselves accountable  by measuring progressSet goals  and measure  outcomesSet goals and measure outcomesProgress toward our workforce diversity goals We have continued to experience good momentum and  measurable progress toward our diversity representation goals,  comparable to other companies within our industry.
Our strategy to maintain progress in diversifying our workforce  includes more effective hiring of diverse talent as well as  developing and retaining our internal diverse talent.
Leadership representation metrics Demographic data In this section of the report, the total number of associates being  reported is 43,581, which excludes Bard associates.
As part of the integration activities following the acquisition of  Bard, BD has been working to incorporate Bard associates into  our single HR IT system.
Over the course of the next year, we will  incorporate this data into our reporting and will adjust our efforts  according to the needs of the newly formed organization.
In the  charts below, "other" is defined as people who do not identify as  those ethnicities listed above, or who identify as more than one  ethnicity, and "not disclosed" indicates that the associate chose  not to answer.End of FY2016 End of FY2017 End of FYExecutive gender 22% 21% 23% Management gender 37% 38% 39% Executive ethnicity 14% 17% 17% Management ethnicity 26% 27% 27% Data does not include Bard associates.
2018 board of directors—ethnicity Asian/Indian Black or African American Hispanic/Latino Other White 39 Includes Vincent A.
Forlenza, Chairman of the Board, CEO.Gender breakdown of the board of directors and executive officers Board of directorsWomen Executive officers Officers 5Men GRI disclosure: 405-1FY2018 worldwide associates by gender 44% Women56% Men 43,Total associates 55Executive and management positions For the following tables, the total number of associates for each disclosure in executive and management positions  is noted in the corresponding table.
Bard associates are not included in this data.
Executives and management positions by gender (worldwide) Executive Management FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2016 FY2017 FYFemale 22% 21% 23% 38% 38% 39% Male 78% 79% 77% 62% 62% 61% Total 295 280 283 6,923 7,340 7,BD defines executives as those in VP , SVP or EVP roles.
Management positions are defined as those in manager, director or equivalent roles.
Executive and management positions by age (worldwide) Executive Management FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2016 FY2017 FYUnder 35 0% 1% 0% 11% 11% 11% 35–54 72% 70% 68% 72% 72% 72% 55 and older 27% 29% 32% 17% 17% 17% Total 295 280 283 6,923 7,340 7,BD defines executives as those in VP , SVP or EVP roles.
Management positions are defined as those in manager, director or equivalent roles.
Executive and management positions by ethnicity (U.S. only) Executive Management FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2016 FY2017 FYAsian/Indian 9% 11% 10% 14% 15% 14% Black or African American 3% 3% 2% 4% 4% 4% Hispanic/Latino 2% 3% 4% 5% 7% 7% Not disclosed 5% 2% 3% 4% 3% 5% Other 0% 1% 1% 3% 2% 2% White 81% 81% 80% 71% 71% 68% Total 237 225 225 4,354 4,555 4,BD defines executives as those in VP , SVP or EVP roles.
Management positions are defined as those in manager, director or equivalent roles.
GRI disclosure: 405-156Associates For the following tables, the total number of associates for each disclosure is noted in the corresponding table.
Bard associates are not included in this data.
GRI disclosure: 401-1, 405-1Associates by age (worldwide) FY2016 FY2017 FYUnder 35 35% 36% 32% 35–54 52% 51% 54% 55 and older 12% 12% 14% Total 45,814 47,750 43,In FY2016 and FY2017, age was not disclosed for 1% of the dataset.
Workforce includes  all associates, both management and nonmanagement.
Associates by ethnicity (U.S. only) FY2016 FY2017 FYAsian/Indian 13% 13% 13% Black or African American 7% 8% 8% Hispanic/Latino 13% 16% 15% Not disclosed 5% 3% 2% Other 3% 2% 7% White 59% 59% 55% Total 17,375 17,528 17,Ethnicity data reflects that of the U.S. workforce including Alaska and Hawaii, but excluding  Puerto Rico or any other U.S. territories.
Workforce includes all associates, both management  and nonmanagement.New hire rate by age (worldwide) FY2016 FY2017 FYUnder 35 10% 13% 13% 35–54 6% 5% 7% 55 and older 1% 0% 1% Workforce includes all associates, both management and nonmanagement.
Turnover rate by age (worldwide) FY2016 FY2017 FYUnder 35 13% 15% 8% 35–54 7% 7% 6% 55 and older 13% 2% 2% By turnovers, we mean the associates in the workforce who were with the Company on the  last day of the previous financial year (September 30, 2017) but no longer with the Company  in the reporting time period.
Workforce includes all associates, both management and  nonmanagement.New hire rate by gender (worldwide) FY2016 FY2017 FYFemale 8% 10% 9% Male 9% 9% 11% Workforce includes all associates, both management and nonmanagement.
Turnover rate by gender (worldwide) FY2016 FY2017 FYFemale 12% 14% 8% Male 9% 10% 9% By turnovers, we mean the associates in the workforce who were with the Company on the  last day of the previous financial year (September 30, 2017) but no longer with the Company  in the reporting time period.
Workforce includes all associates, both management and  nonmanagement.572020 goal Achieve best-in-class associate safety performance FY2018 performance update Our efforts in FY2018 were again driven by the goal of ensuring  that all associates are working safely and in an environment  designed to protect and maintain health.
With the acquisition of  Bard, we had an opportunity to identify new best practices and  expand them across our operations.
As part of this integration,  we harmonized programs and expectations across all of our  operations.
To do so, we established a two-way mentorship  model to enhance knowledge and support the implementation  of practices new to the sites.
This process is part of ongoing efforts by our governance team  to seek out new strategies that enhance health and safety site  management, which is actively involved in, and is ultimately  responsible for, meeting EHS targets.
Associates receive regular,  ongoing training, which is regularly audited.
All of these efforts  feed into, or are managed by, our Performance Verification  Process.
This model not only provides our operating guidelines,  but also sets minimum requirements that EHS teams are  measured against.
While pursuing Bard integration, we worked to ensure health and  safety measurements were consistent across all our operations— including Bard operations.
This harmonization was completed in  FY2018, and our Health and Safety metrics reported here include  Bard operations.
In FY2018, there were no fatalities.
We continue to place a focus on proactive procedures, policies  and governance programs that ensure compliance, promote  the identification of workplace hazards and implement  corrective actions that prevent injuries and workplace illnesses.
Management and leadership engagement, peer-to-peer  coaching, and education and training are components critical to  fostering our culture of safety.
The following continue to be core  elements of our safety program: • Interventions that address safety risks unique to our  operations, such as ergonomics, fall protection, the control of  hazardous energy and machine guarding  • Cross-business teams of safety representatives and plant  managers who meet to share best practices and accelerate  safety improvements • Measurement of leading indicators across all sites, which  include root cause analysis of incidents and serious near  misses, identification of safety opportunities, and the  completion of risk assessments and inspections • Teams to identify program elements for specific segments  of our associate population, such as field service  engineers, fleet operators, office and R&D associates, and  construction contractors FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FYLost time injury frequency   rate per 200,000 hours worked0.29 0.32 0.Occupational illness frequency  rate per 200,000 hours worked0.04 0.03 0.Occupational injury and illness  rate per 200,000 hours worked1.4 1.2 1.1 1.0 1.0 0.9 1.1 0.9 0.7 0.7 0.Data provided reflects all BD manufacturing sites FY2008–FY2017, excludes Bard.
GRI disclosure: 403-258Social investing Advancing the world of health™ is the inspiration behind our  global enterprise and is a call to action that resounds with  BD associates around the world.
By giving our time, our talent  and our resources through philanthropic and charitable efforts, we seek to improve global health standards and access to  healthcare for all communities.
Since we were founded over 110  years ago, BD has actively donated cash, products and expertise  to nonprofit organizations, globally.
BD FY2018 charitable giving summary, by the numbers Total cash donations $9.9 million Total product donations $6.4 million Value of Company match to associate donation $1.3 million BD match to employee funds raised for disaster relief through Americares (hurricane relief) $40,BD match to employee funds raised for disaster relief through Direct Relief (California wildfires) $42,No. of grants issued, worldwide No. of nonprofit beneficiaries No. of matching gifts distributed 26,$4,626,050  $1,178,745 $1,303,727  $1,476,951 $247,319  $1,028,349  Higher education $9,861,141   Total contributionsOther/four.num/one.num Disaster relief Health and human services/four.num/three.numCivic and social welfare/four.num/two.num Arts and cultureFY2018 cash contributionsFY2018 charitable giving summary $17,365,654   Total contributions$610,Volunteering—pro-bono hours donated $431,Volunteering—skills-based$6,462,Product donations $9,861,Cash donations/four.num/zero.num 40 Includes matching gifts and contributions from individual BD locations 41 Includes inclusion and diversity and  volunteer associate engagement 42 Includes basic needs/hometown giving 43  Includes care for the uninsured/underinsured, diabetes and prevention, global health, infection prevention, maternal and newborn health, vaccine preventable  diseases, women’s health, cancer and other health592020 goal Partner with nonprofits to address unmet needs, locally and globally 20 million syringes donated to support polio eradication BD donated 20 million autodisable syringes, valued at $1 million,  to Rotary—a nonprofit organization dedicated to tackling the  world’s most pressing humanitarian challenges—in support of  the Global Polio Eradication Initiative.
With facilitation by Direct Relief, a global humanitarian aid  organization, the 20 million syringes were delivered and used for vaccinations in four states within India—Maharashtra, West  Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Haryana.
More than six decades prior, in 1954, BD donated 1 million of  the first sterile disposable syringes for the Salk polio vaccine  field trials in the United States, which inoculated nearly 1 million  school children known as “Polio Pioneers.” BD Helping Build Healthy Communities ™ initiative Community health centers are on the front lines, every day,  providing life-saving care to more than 27 million people  in vulnerable rural and urban communities across the  United States.
Without these community-based “family doctors,” millions  of uninsured and underinsured Americans would go without  healthcare.
Implemented in partnership with Direct Relief and the National  Association of Community™ Health Centers, the BD Helping  Build Healthy Communities™ initiative awards grants to  community health centers, to support the implementation of  innovative approaches to meeting the unique healthcare needs  of local, underserved and vulnerable populations.In FY2018, the initiative's sixth year, BD invested $1 million,  with five health centers each receiving $200,000.
Clinical data  indicates that this funding is having a meaningful impact on  grant winners’ ability to expand access to quality patient care,  particularly among patients experiencing diabetes, hypertension,  depression and difficulty with medication compliance.
For example, after the first full year of funding, 2017 grant winner  Cherokee Health Systems, in Knoxville, TN, increased the number  of patients participating in its medication therapy management  (MTM) program, from 30 patients to 176.
It also expanded from  two to five clinic sites, added a new pharmacist, and is reaching  patients in rural areas through telepharmacy.
Grant winner  Coastal Family Health Center, in Gulfport, MS, expanded its MTM  program from 95 to 137 patients and screened nearly all of those  patients for depression.
BD Helping Build Healthy Communities™ initiative: by the numbers The program won the 2017 U.S. Chamber of  Commerce Foundation Healthy10 Award.
Since 2013, 45,000 patients have been impacted.Since 2013, BD has provided Direct Relief  with more than 22 million insulin syringes  and more than 3,200 pen needles, valued  at $6.4 million .
Since 2013, 31  community health centers in 13  states have received $3.6 million in grants.These items have been distributed to 845  community health centers, free clinics and  community clinics in 49 states and Puerto Rico.60Expanding on program success In response to the success of the BD Helping Build Healthy  Communities™ program, and to reach an even broader  vulnerable population, BD worked with the National  Association of Free and Charitable Clinics (NAFC) to introduce  three companion programs in 2017, which support free and  charitable clinics.
One of these programs, the BD Advancing Community Health:  Enhancing Clinical Effectiveness program, was codeveloped with  Heart to Heart International.
It aims to improve the diagnosis  and treatment of chronic disease among vulnerable populations,  through the installation of point-of-care (POC) laboratories.Through this program in FY2018: • BD awarded $250,000 in funding to support lab installation at  six community clinics, located in Arizona, Kentucky, Minnesota,  Texas, Nebraska and Virginia.
• BD invited associates to participate in the Company’s first- ever U.S.-based Volunteer Service Trip.
Seven BD associates  were deployed to seven clinics, and spent 2–3 days each,  providing mentorship, laboratory set up guidance and  diagnostic training.
• BD volunteers will facilitate an annual audit of each POC lab  to evaluate the degree to which the labs helped participating  clinics improve and expand access to the care they provide  their communities.
Americares and BD Advancing Community Health Program Under the Americares and BD Advancing Community Health  Program, BD awarded $200,000 in 2018—$100,000 each to  free clinics in Georgia and Pennsylvania—to support the process  of becoming a recognized patient-centered medical home.
The  program aims to improve the quality of patient care at free and charitable clinics serving low-income and uninsured patients in  the U.S. Two clinics from across the country are selected annually.
Four free clinics in three states have benefited since the program  launched in 2017.
Responding in times of disaster For more than a decade, BD has partnered with international  relief agencies Direct Relief, Americares, MAP International  and Heart to Heart International to ensure its supplies and  financial support are deployed as quickly and efficiently as  possible to the people and communities who need them most.
In FY2018, BD responded to a number of humanitarian crises  and natural disasters, the most notable of which were hurricane  Maria and the Kerala floods.
• Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico in September of 2017 and  devastated the majority of the island, causing widespread  flooding, destroying many whole neighborhoods and almost  the entire power grid on the island.
BD and Bard collaborated with the Community Foundation of  New Jersey (CFNJ) to create employee crisis funds to provide  relief to both companies’ Puerto Rico associates affected by  hurricane Maria.The two companies issued more than $2 million in grants to  more than 1,000 BD and Bard Puerto Rico-based associates.
The funds paid for associates’ basic living expenses that were  not covered by insurance or help from other organizations,  including housing, home repair for primary residences, food,  clothing and other basic living essentials.
• Kerala floods: More than one million people were affected  by the unprecedented flooding that took place in Kerala,  southern India, in 2018.
Several hundred lost their lives during  monsoon season, said to be the worst rains the region has  received in more than 100 years.
To support those impacted by the Kerala flooding, BD donated  $25,000 to Americares India and also donated insulin  syringes, catheters and pen needles to the local government  authorities.612020 goal Drive social impact and associate engagement through volunteer programs BD Volunteer Service Trip program Having celebrated its 13th year in 2018, our Volunteer Service  Trip (VST) program sends teams of BD associates to developing  countries to help strengthen local health systems through  training, education, laboratory services and construction projects.
In FY2018, 16 BD associates completed a 3-week VST to Mexico,  where they served two organizations: Direct Relief Mexico and  Casa de la Amistad, a nongovernmental organization that  provides comprehensive services to pediatric cancer patients and  their caregivers.
The team, which was the first to include legacy Bard associates, worked on projects ranging from business  development, marketing, space utilization and process efficiency,  to IT and construction work.
In FY2019, BD and Direct Relief will  send a second team of BD volunteers to continue its relationship  with Casa de la Amistad.
The Company’s 2018 VST to Cameroon was indefinitely delayed,  due to safety concerns in the region.
In 2019, associates who  were selected to volunteer in Cameroon will instead participate  in the Company’s fifth VST to Haiti.
BD Volunteer Service Trips: by the numbers Henry P .
Becton Volunteer Impact Awards These global awards celebrate the outstanding and  creative volunteer service of BD associates and retirees.
In  FY2018, BD awarded grants totaling $75,000 to 15 nonprofit organizations around the world, recognizing the community  service of 15 associates from eight countries—including the  program’s first legacy Bard winners.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service BD is committed to encouraging associates around the world  to join together to serve their local communities through  volunteerism—with the goal of bringing our values to life while  making a meaningful difference in the communities where they  live and work.
As just a single example of this team-based volunteerism,  nearly 1,000 BD associates at 11 sites across the United States  celebrated the Dr Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service by  packaging 160,000+ meals over 3 days for Rise Against Hunger programs.
BD ARGs, including the Women’s Initiative  Network (WIN) and African Americans at BD (AABD) helped  coordinate events at several sites, as did local associate volunteer  councils at each location.
FY2018 also marked the first time that  legacy Bard associates, located in Murray Hill, NJ, participated  in this event.
BD plans to continue to expand this nationwide volunteer service  effort in FY2019, to include additional locations.
BD matching gift program BD matches charitable donations to eligible nonprofit  organizations, up to $5,000 per associate, per year.
In  FY2018, BD matched 26,579 associate donations to 501(c)(3)  organizations in the United States, for a total investment of  over $1.3 million.
In FY2018, BD harmonized its matching gift program with the  Bard program, to ensure all associates receive the same match  for their FY2019 community giving.
In 2019, BD plans to expand  its Annual Payroll Deduction Campaign to include legacy Bard  associates.
million in   skills-based service  and other volunteer  time$3.VSTsNGO partnersBD sites, globally 89 222    VST volunteersyears of VST  programscountry   locations 30   in grants $75,000 15 15 nonprofit  organizationsBD associates  recognized for  volunteerism62Awards, recognitions and affiliations,   FYCorporate recognition Barron’s 2018 100 Most Sustainable Companies Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index since FORTUNE’s 2018 World’s Most Admired Companies list FTSE4Good Index since CR Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens List 2018 CPA-Zicklin Index on Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability—Center for  Political Accountability Innovation 2018 Derwent Top 100 Global Innovators list—Clarivate Analytics Efficiency U.S. EPA Green Power Partner U.S. EPA SmartWay® Transport Partner Empowerment AON Best Employer list (China) Best Companies to Work for in the Health Sector list—Great Place to Work  Institute (Brazil) Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality—Human Rights Campaign Foundation Employer of Choice for Gender Equality—Australia Workplace Gender Equality  Agency (Australia) Top Employers Africa 2018; #1 Employer in the Healthcare Services Industry—Top  Employers Institute (Africa) Top Employers China 2018—Top Employers Institute (China) To find out more about sustainability at BD or to provide feedback on our reporting,   please contact BD_Sustainability_Office@bd.com BD, the BD Logo, Accucath Ace, Alaris, AllPoints, Covera, FACSLyric, FACSuite, HealthSight, Hemogard, Horizon Brilliant, LifeStent, LUTONIX, MAX, Nano,  OnClarity, OptiBuild, PhaSeal, ProSeries, Pyxis, Rhapsody, SurePath, Synapsys, Vacutainer and Veritor are trademarks of Becton, Dickinson and Company or  its affiliates.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
© 2019 BD.
All rights reserved.bd.comBD, Franklin Lakes, NJ, 07417, U.S.