FY 2019 Sustainability Report
2I believe that healthcare is the most consequential industry in the 
world. Our work provides an opportunity to make a life-changing 
difference for our customers, their patients, and the communities  
we serve and in which we live and work. Our Purpose— advancing the 
world of health ™—is as impactful as it is inspiring; it reminds us that we 
all play a part in changing the world for the better, every single day.
With the global reach of BD comes a great deal of responsibility. Five 
years ago, we initiated a broader and more integrated approach to 
sustainability, and I am pleased with not only how far we have come, 
but how that approach has enabled us to respond to the significant 
social issues that have reverberated across the globe in recent months. 
Our associates have rallied around our Purpose, developing innovative 
diagnostic solutions for COVID-19 in record time, increasing the 
availability of products used in sample collection and the treatment of 
critically ill patients, and working with countries around the world to 
enable the delivery of a potential COVID-19 vaccine. And we have 
come together to have important, frank discussions about race and 
equality, celebrating our differences while challenging each other to 
make further progress in advancing our own culture of inclusion while 
addressing the systemic inequities faced by people of color. 
We remain focused on supporting priority health needs that are 
aligned with the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and 
shared value creation—meaning how we address unmet societal 
needs through business models and initiatives that also contribute to 
the commercial success of BD. I am pleased to share with you the 
progress we are making toward our 2020 sustainability goals. These 
goals provide the framework for how we manage, and make an impact 
on, the most relevant social and environmental issues for our company.
Innovation
In recent years, we’ve assembled a leading portfolio of solutions to 
better serve the entire healthcare continuum—from discovery to 
diagnosis, to the process of care, to the treatment of disease.  
Our evolution has been driven by the successful acquisition and 
integration of CareFusion and C. R. Bard, and we are leveraging our 
broad new capabilities to accelerate innovation, seeking new and 
better solutions that address our customers’ unmet needs, improve 
patient outcomes, reduce the cost of care and expand access. 
Our Purpose and innovating to solve major health problems are 
mutually reinforcing goals. When we innovate to increase access to 
quality healthcare, it benefits people and societies throughout the 
world and drives our business performance. We call this “innovating on 
Purpose,” and it’s an approach that led to 25 major product launches 
in FY 2019, including the Purewick ™ Female External Catheter and 
WavelinQ ™ 4F Arteriovenous Fistula Creation Device in our BD 
Interventional segment; the BD HealthSight ™ Data Manager 1.1 Suite 
of Technologies in our BD Medical segment; and the BD Cor ™ and  
BD FACSDuet ™ Systems in our BD Life Sciences segment. 
While we have even more major launches planned for FY 2020,  
we are also working to tackle some of the largest challenges in 
healthcare—including rapidly mustering our resources to respond 
to the global COVID-19 pandemic by developing multiple products 
for the rapid diagnosis of the virus.
Access
We partner and collaborate with public and nonprofit organizations 
around the world to address priority health needs.
This year, we were recognized by Fortune  magazine on its annual list of 
companies who “Change the World.” We earned this honor for our 
work, helping to combat the threat of antimicrobial resistance through 
programs that raise awareness and mobilize and activate the 
healthcare industry, as well as leaders and communities around the 
world, to take action to extend the useful life of medications. 
This is the third time BD has made this prestigious list since its 
inception—something only 17 companies can claim.Efficiency
As climate change increasingly becomes one of the most disruptive 
forces around the world, we have identified opportunities to make 
environmental improvements across our value chain and build resilience 
in our global operations. This year, we have integrated environmental 
performance data for Bard into our reporting, and while this has 
impacted progress against some of our targets, I’m confident that 
integration efforts will drive continued improvements. Since setting our 
2020 sustainability targets, we’ve continued to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption. We remain 
committed to renewable energy, such as installations of on-site solar 
power generation across our sites—most recently, at our global 
headquarters in Franklin Lakes, NJ. 
Recognizing the increased interest from our stakeholders about our 
climate change management program, we are also publishing 
disclosures in line with the recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). BD is one of over 1,000 
organizations that supports the recommendations of the TCFD.
Empowerment
By building and engaging diverse teams and leveraging the unique 
ideas, backgrounds and experiences of our associates, we can deliver 
better outcomes for our global marketplace. This focus on inclusion and 
diversity has long been a cultural priority at BD, and it is embedded in 
The BD Way, the set of values, leadership commitments and mindset 
that guides our behavior and actions. 
As executive sponsor of WIN (Women’s Initiative Network), the 
company’s largest associate resource group (ARG), I’ve seen firsthand  
the impact we can have when we create a culture of individual 
belonging and empowerment. Members of our ARGs have been 
instrumental in creating opportunities for our more than 65,000  
global associates to network, navigate their careers and find—or 
be—a mentor.
Long-term impact
While we’re proud of our accomplishments in FY 2019, we will never be 
satisfied with maintaining the status quo. Just as we continuously seek 
new innovations to help more patients live better lives, we strive to be 
the best employer, the best environmental steward and the best 
corporate citizen we can possibly be. We are in the process of taking our 
sustainability work to the next level, developing our 2030 impact goals 
that reflect the new company that BD has become. I’m excited to share 
the new strategy later in 2020, along with bold commitments that will 
continue our focus on shared value creation. 
Our role in creating a better, healthier world has never been more clear 
than it is today, and our associates take tremendous pride in helping the 
caregivers, researchers and other healthcare professionals who serve 
patients all around the world. We look forward to working with you—our 
stakeholders—as we continue advancing the world of health ™.
Sincerely,
 
Tom Polen
CEO and PresidentTo our stakeholders3This report provides an update on our global environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) performance against our 2020 
goals, during Fiscal Year 2019 (October 1, 2018 to September 
30, 2019) for Becton, Dickinson and Company (also known as 
“BD”) and our subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.
We report annually on our sustainability performance, and 
published our last report, which highlighted progress made in 
Fiscal Year 2018, in June 2019. 
In December 2017, BD acquired C.R. Bard (“Bard”), a leading 
multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer of 
innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields of 
vascular, urological, oncological and surgical specialty products. 
Bard data is integrated into all data provided throughout this 
report, unless noted. 
This report contains standard disclosures from the Global 
Reporting Initiative ™ (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 
While this report is not intended to meet the requirements  
of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, reference 
numbers for standard disclosures have been included where  
full or partial information has been provided. This report contains standard disclosures from the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Medical Equipment and 
Supplies Sustainability Accounting Standard. While this report is 
not intended to meet all the requirements of the SASB standard, 
reference numbers for disclosures have been included where full 
or partial information has been provided.
Data in this report has not been externally assured.
Reporting and performance data include information on our 
owned and operated facilities. We have processes in place to 
ensure that reporting on key sustainability performance 
indicators is as accurate and robust as possible, and we 
continually work to improve them.
We seek feedback from stakeholders each year, which informs 
our selection of content for sustainability reporting. For contact 
information, see the final page of this report. 
Our previous sustainability report is available on our website .
About this report
GRI disclosures: 102-1, 102-10, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-564BD is one of the largest global medical technology companies in 
the world and is advancing the world of health ™ by improving 
medical discovery, diagnostics and the delivery of care. The 
company supports the heroes on the front lines of healthcare by 
developing innovative technology, services and solutions that 
help advance both clinical therapy for patients and clinical 
process for healthcare providers. BD and its 65,000 employees 
have a passion and commitment to help enhance the safety and 
efficiency of clinicians’ care delivery process, enable laboratory 
scientists to accurately detect disease and advance researchers’ 
capabilities to develop the next generation of diagnostics and 
therapeutics. BD has a presence in virtually every country and 
partners with organizations around the world to address some of the most challenging global health issues. By working in close 
collaboration with customers, BD can help enhance outcomes, 
lower costs, increase efficiencies, improve safety and expand 
access to healthcare.
For more information on BD, please visit our website .
BD is headquartered in Franklin Lakes NJ and serves over 
190 countries.
Further details about BD (including location of operations and 
direct economic impact generated and distributed) can be found 
in our 2019 10-K filing .
BD corporate headquarters, Franklin Lakes, NJ.About BD
GRI disclosures: 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 201-15
About our businesses
The BD Medical segment 
focuses on providing innovative solutions to 
reduce the spread of infection, enhance 
diabetes treatment, advance drug delivery, 
improve surgical procedures and provide 
effective and safe medication management. 
Customers served include hospitals and 
clinics; physicians; governmental and public 
health agencies; healthcare workers; retail 
pharmacies; pharmaceutical and biotech 
companies; and consumers.
The BD Life Sciences 
segment  delivers innovative solutions 
from discovery to diagnosis, continually 
advancing science and clinical outcomes 
across infectious disease and cancer. 
Offerings include preanalytical solutions  
for sample management; immunology 
research solutions, including flow cytometry 
and multiomics tools; microbiology and 
molecular diagnostics; lab automation  
and informatics solutions; and differentiated 
reagents and assays. Customers served 
include research institutions, industrial  
and reference laboratories; blood banks; 
hospitals and clinics; alternate site 
healthcare; public health agencies; 
academic and government institutions; and 
pharmaceutical and biotech companies.
The BD Interventional 
segment  focuses on developing 
innovative surgical, endovascular,  
urological and critical care interventions  
that not only meet clinical needs but also 
deliver value to health systems and improve 
patients’ lives. Customers served include 
hospitals and clinics; physicians; ambulatory 
surgery centers; nurses; and consumers. 
Phasix™ ST Mesh
Arctic Sun™ 
Temperature 
Management 
SystemSample products:
BD Alaris™ Infusion SystemBD Hypak™ 
Glass 
Prefillable 
Syringes
Sample products:
BD Vacutainer® Blood 
Collection TubesBD FACSLyric™ Flow Cytometry System
BD Kiestra™ Lab 
Automation SolutionsBD MAX™ Open 
System Reagent SuiteSample products:BD MaxZero™ 
Needle-Free 
Connector
BD Nano™  
4mm Pen Needle
Lutonix™ 035 Drug Coated 
Balloon PTA Catheter
LifeStent™ 
Vascular  
Stent System
GRI disclosures: 102-2, 102-6
6Company structure
BD is structured to serve customers by providing unique solutions. The data below represents the company structure for FY 2019.
 
 
 
 
  
 Revenue by geography
(millions of dollars)
United States 
(including 
Puerto Rico)
$9,730
Other (including Latin America, Canada and EMA [which includes  
the Commonwealth of Independent States, Middle East and Africa])  $1,476 Europe
$3,359
Greater Asia (including Japan 
and Asia Pacific)
$2,726
$3.9$2.6$1.1$1.5
$1.6
$1.5
$1.2
$1.1$1.4$1.4
Medication
Delivery Solutions   
Urology and
Critical CarePeripheral 
InterventionSurgeryMedication
Management 
Solutions   Diabetes CarePharmaceutical 
SystemsPreanalytical 
Systems
Diagnostic 
Systems
Biosciences $17.3
Total BD revenueRevenue by segment
(billions of dollars)
Values in this exhibit reflect 
rounded numbers in 
billions and include Bard.$4.3
BD Life  
Sciences
$3.9
BD 
Interventional$9.1
BD 
Medical
GRI disclosures: 102-6, 102-77Value chain profile
BD has more than 700 core suppliers that provide key materials, 
including plastics, glass, metals, textiles, electronic and mechanical 
sub-assemblies, and various paper, agricultural, biological, chemical 
and petrochemical products.BD manufactures and sells over 80,000 products worldwide. 
We market our products in the United States and 
internationally through independent distribution channels 
and directly to end users with company associates or 
independent sales representatives.
GRI disclosure: 102-6Customers served
BD Medical BD Life Sciences BD Interventional
Hospitals • • •
Clinics • • •
Laboratories •
Physicians' office practices • • •
Consumers and retail pharmacies •
Government agencies * • • •
Academic and government institutions • • •
Public health agencies • •
Nonprofit public health agencies •
Blood banks •
Pharmaceutical companies† • •
Biotechnology companies • •
Healthcare workers •
Ambulatory surgical centers •8The Antibribery and Anticorruption Program helps keep 
associates pointed in the right direction. In support of the 
program, the Ethics and Compliance function provides resources 
to regional and local country management to enhance their 
anticorruption and compliance business practices. This includes 
incorporating compliance requirements into existing business 
practices and advising local management on anticorruption 
compliance-related issues. 
A key focus for BD is driving compliance in our distributor 
networks across the globe, resulting in stronger business 
relationships while upholding our reputation.
The Antibribery and Anticorruption Program is advanced by 
fostering collaboration with business leaders to deliver 
consistent and clear policies and approval processes—along 
with enhanced third-party due diligence procedures—to help 
provide assurance that BD is “winning business the right way.”BD is committed to training all associates via both in-person, 
scenario-based sessions and learning management system 
courses that leverage policy materials, such as the Global 
Standards for Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, 
Healthcare Organizations and Government Officials.
Joint training with distributors is a core component of the 
Antibribery and Anticorruption Program. These sessions 
combine required anticorruption training with information 
about our overall strategy, progress updates for each business 
segment and new products. We are committed to a strong ethics and compliance culture. 
We do not tolerate actions or behaviors that are inconsistent 
with our values or violate the BD Code of Conduct or applicable 
laws and regulations. All BD associates are responsible for 
reinforcing our ethics and compliance culture and sustaining our 
reputation as a company dedicated to quality and integrity. We 
encourage and expect everyone at BD to speak up by asking 
questions, raising concerns, seeking guidance and reporting 
actual or suspected violations of laws, our Code of Conduct, our 
policies or our high ethical standards. This requirement extends 
to all associates, vendors and other third parties working 
on our behalf.The following BD Values further strengthen our culture of ethics 
and compliance and guide how we hold ourselves accountable 
to our shareholders and stakeholders.
• We do what is right.
• We thrive on innovation and demand quality.
• We are all accountable.
• We learn and improve every day.
• We help each other be great.
These values are cascaded through all levels of the organization. 
Read more about our commitment to ethics and compliance on  
our website .
The BD Code of Conduct sets the foundation for how we 
behave at BD. The value “We do what is right” is the cornerstone 
of our code. To do what is right, we follow the laws, rules and 
company policies that apply to us. We also follow the highest 
ethical standards, even when there’s no specific law or policy. 
Our code provides guidance and resources to help us follow 
through on these ethical standards and protect our reputation.Everyone at BD—from directors to officers and associates—must 
follow our code. It applies equally to everyone, no matter their 
position or level. This is a condition of employment at BD. Our 
code is available in English and 20 other languages. All 
associates are required to complete training on our code 
annually, and the code is easily accessible to all associates on 
our company intranet pages. 
Our Code of Conduct is available on our website  and through 
our Ethics and Compliance mobile app for BD associates.How we do business
Ethics and compliance
Code of Conduct
Antibribery and anticorruptionGRI disclosure: 102-16
GRI disclosure: 102-16
GRI disclosure: 102-169At BD, we are committed to operating in a way that respects the 
human rights of all associates, as well as the people in our 
supply chains, the communities in which we operate and those 
who are impacted by our products. 
Rather than doing the minimum required, BD is focused on 
doing what is right . This value, along with the rest of our values, 
guide our efforts on having a positive social impact across our 
businesses and operations.
Our commitment to human rights is guided by the principles 
outlined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and extends 
beyond BD processes and practices to those in our 
supply chains. 
We believe that all people should be treated with dignity and 
respect, and we are committed to conducting our business in a 
manner consistent with this principle. 
We comply with applicable employment and human rights laws 
and regulations wherever we have operations; we expect our 
suppliers to do the same.In all of our operations:
• We provide a safe and healthy workplace for our associates.
• We do not use child labor.
• We do not use forced, prison, indentured, bonded or 
involuntary labor.
• We prohibit discrimination in our hiring and 
employment practices.
• We prohibit physical abuse and harassment of associates, as 
well as the threat of either.
• We support the freedom of association and the rights of 
workers and employers to bargain collectively.Our associates are expected to report any actual or suspected 
violations of laws, the BD Code of Conduct, our policies or our 
high ethical standards. Associates can report these in a number 
of ways, including via the BD Ethics Helpline, which is available 
anywhere in the world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 
Alternatively, associates may use our independently operated, 
web-based reporting tool, where BD associates worldwide can 
make a report in their native language from any computer or 
mobile device with internet access. The helpline provides 
translation services as needed, and reports can be made 
anonymously where permitted by law. Associates can also 
report violations to their supervisor, management, Human 
Resources, the Law Group or directly to Ethics & Compliance. 
Regardless of the outcome, associates are never penalized for 
bringing such matters to the company’s attention in good faith. 
BD does not tolerate any form of retaliation.Local toll-free numbers for the helpline are included in our  
Code of Conduct, and the web-based reporting tool can be 
accessed from any computer or mobile device with internet 
access from our website  or directly via our Ethics and 
Compliance mobile app for BD associates.
In FY 2019, the Ethics Office received more than 800 contacts 
from associates worldwide seeking guidance or reporting 
concerns. BD takes all reports of violations of laws, BD policies 
and our high ethical standards seriously. We promptly, fairly and 
thoroughly investigate all reports. Depending on the findings, 
we may take corrective action, such as discipline up to and 
including termination of employment or providing 
nondisciplinary-based training and process improvements in 
areas where a gap has been identified.
GRI disclosure: 102-17
We comply with all applicable laws and regulations that govern 
the interactions between medical technology companies and 
healthcare professionals, healthcare organizations and 
government officials in the many countries in which we do 
business. To help ensure compliance, BD has adopted various 
industry codes, including the Advanced Medical Technology 
Association (AdvaMed) Code of Ethics in the United States and 
MedTech Europe Code of Ethics. BD associates receive 
information and training about these codes in a number of 
ways, including periodic communications, and online and in-person trainings at conferences and meetings. Associates can 
access detailed information on our expectations through our 
intranet and our Ethics and Compliance mobile app. Key 
provisions of applicable industry codes are also incorporated 
into various global policies, including the Global Standards for 
Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, Healthcare 
Organizations and Government Officials.
GRI disclosure: 102-16  
SASB disclosure: HC-MS-510a.2Reporting ethics concerns
Interactions with healthcare professionals
Human rights10Our goal is to provide an executive compensation program that 
best serves the long-term interests of our shareholders. We 
believe that attracting and retaining superior talent and 
rewarding performance is key to delivering long-term shareholder returns, and that a competitive compensation 
program is critical to that end. For further details of executive 
compensation, see our  proxy statements .• Policies  
– BD Code of Conduct , which reinforces our commitment  
   to human rights and details how to report suspected  
   violations anywhere in our supply chain  
– BD Expectations for Suppliers , our code of conduct  
   designed for our thousands of suppliers
• Practices geared towards ensuring modern slavery and 
human trafficking do not exist in our workforce and those of 
our suppliers.  
– We do not charge any of our associates recruitment fees,  
   and do not work with recruitment agencies that engage in  
   this practice.  
– We do not withhold identity documents, immigration  
   documents, or any other personal documentation of  
   our associates.  
– We encourage our associates to report, without fear of  
   retaliation, any matters related to human trafficking,  
   modern slavery or any other human rights violations.• Due diligence, including initial assessments of suppliers 
against 12 risk factors including ESG risk
• Risk management efforts to ensure compliance against 
related policies throughout our operations  
– For example, our Global Operations and Human Resources  
   teams work to ensure compliance with our policies  
   prohibiting forced labor, human trafficking and modern  
   slavery across all of our operations, including  
   manufacturing operations.
• Training and capacity building, both internally and for 
key suppliers
BD strives to continuously improve its programs to ensure 
compliance with applicable laws and high ethical standards to 
meet the expectations of our customers, shareholders, 
associates, communities and other stakeholders.
Our Corporate Governance Principles outline how we hold 
ourselves accountable to shareholders and stakeholders.  
These principles address the operation of our Board and its 
committees; strategic and succession planning; director 
qualifications, independence, compensation and equity ownership; and the ability of shareholders and others to 
communicate directly with Board members. 
Further details can be found on the Corporate  
Governance website .
BD is governed by a Board of Directors consisting of 12 
members, 11 of whom are independent. Our Board  members 
have a variety of backgrounds, which reflects our continuing 
efforts to achieve a diversity of viewpoints, experiences and 
knowledge, as well as ethnicities and genders. Our Board is 
comprised of four female directors and eight male directors, one 
of whom is African American.There are five operating Board  committees (listed below) and 
an executive committee that meets only as needed:
• Audit
• Compensation and Management Development
• Corporate Governance and Nominating
• Quality and Regulatory
• Science, Marketing, Innovation and Technology
A charter for each committee outlines its mission, the 
qualifications required for membership and its members’ duties.
See more about our Board of Directors on the Corporate 
Governance website .
Executive compensationBoard compositionCorporate governance
Corporate Governance Principles
GRI disclosures: 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25, 102-28, 102-35
Leadership recognition
FORTUNE’s  America’s Most Innovative Leaders List  
(Vince Forlenza ranked #41)
AdvaMed—Lifetime Achievement Award for BD Board 
Member, Catherine BurzikBD has programs in place to monitor and advance human rights 
efforts throughout the company. These include:11Strong, long-term relationships with policymakers help  
us better understand unmet public health needs around  
the world. 
BD engages in public policy advocacy through ongoing, 
constructive and transparent interactions with government 
officials and stakeholder groups. All advocacy activities are 
directed toward furthering the company’s Purpose of advancing 
the world of health ™, without regard to the personal political 
affiliations or views of any individual BD associates at any level 
across the organization. We employ public policy professionals who work closely with our country and business leaders to make 
constructive contributions to policy discussions relevant to the 
company and to the communities in which we operate. We 
leverage our diverse expertise, global reach and collaborations 
with healthcare professionals, patients and others to advance 
sound public policy. 
Our participation in the political process, including lobbying and 
the BD Political Action Committee “PAC”, is governed by the 
Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership team.Participation in the political process
In areas where BD has deep experience, the company develops 
public policy positions that guide our advocacy efforts 
worldwide. We currently have a range of global public policy 
positions available online . 
We also engage in policy dialogues to advance regulatory and 
reimbursement frameworks that ensure the safety and efficacy of medical technologies while enabling timely patient access to 
them. We promote sensible tax policies that enhance 
competitiveness and innovation, support policies and programs 
that advance biomedical research and seek to expand access to 
care for all people.Public policy advocacyThe Center for Political Accountability (CPA)  recognized BD 
with a first-place rating of 100% on their 2019 corporate political 
disclosure and accountability index. The ranking benchmarks 
Fortune 500 companies and is produced by CPA in conjunction 
with the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. This is the 
third year in a row that BD has received a perfect score for the 
transparency with which we conduct our political engagement, 
and it is a designation that investors watch.Engaging in a transparent manner
12* Data represents calendar years (including Bard data)
†Trade associations: AdvaMed, Healthcare Institute of New Jersey, California Life Sciences Association, North Carolina Biosciences Organization
‡Issue-based coalitions: Diagnostic Test Working Group, Medical Device Competitiveness Coalition, Physicians Fee Schedule Pathology Payment Coalition, United for Medical Research$809,623 
Public policy
consultants$690,000
BD associates$102,093
Issue-based coalitions†
$196,514
Trade associations‡
$1,798,2302018*Role of political contributions
The company prohibits the use of corporate funds and assets to 
support U.S. federal or state candidates, political parties, ballot 
measures or referendum campaigns. Exceptions to this policy 
require approval by the CEO, the general counsel and a 
designated member of the Board of Directors Corporate Nominating and Governance Committee. To date, no 
exceptions have been sought or approved.
Certain conditions must also be met for any political 
contributions outside of the United States.
$848,008 
Public policy
consultants$592,000
BD associates$112,381
Issue-based coalitions†
$193,736
Trade associations‡
$1,746,1252019*
For calendar year 2019, the company spent approximately $1.7 
million on salaries and expenses associated with lobbying in the 
United States, which was roughly the same as the company’s 
2018 expenditure. We file quarterly reports regarding our federal 
lobbying activities with the Office of the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate. The BD PAC contributed a total of $101,000 to candidates in 2019, an 
increase of approximately $16,000 over the prior year.  
All contributions made by the BD PAC are also publicly reported.
For details on U.S. lobby expenditures by year, visit our website .As permitted under U.S. law, the company operates a political 
action committee. The BD PAC is a mechanism to enable 
eligible U.S. associates to voluntarily support candidates for 
elected office who share our perspectives and approaches to 
public policy issues. BD has not authorized the establishment of 
any PACs operating on the state or local level. Contributions to the BD PAC are entirely voluntary and are governed by the  
BD PAC Bylaws. BD provides administrative support to the PAC, 
as permitted under federal law. 
For annual reporting of itemized PAC contributions and any 
other corporate contributions, visit our website .Political Action Committee: BD PAC
U.S. lobbying expenditures
GRI disclosure: 415-113Ensuring product safety
At BD, we create value for our patients and customers through predictable delivery of differentiated, high-value products and solutions. 
We work relentlessly to develop solutions that advance healthcare and improve worker and patient safety.
Product safety is at the heart of how we design, manufacture and deliver products. This section details some of that work.
In addition to designing quality into our products, it is essential 
to implement best-in-class supplier quality programs. The Global 
Procurement function partners with the Quality function to 
ensure that we clearly define the impact suppliers of materials 
and services can have on BD products and put the appropriate 
controls in place when selecting, approving and maintaining 
our suppliers.
Our supplier management program oversees the quality and 
safety practices of all our suppliers. Our program focuses 
on four areas:
• Performance management  comprises the procedures that 
govern how BD identifies, classifies and assesses the 
qualifications of our suppliers, and manages our relationship 
with each of them.• Supplier continuous improvement programs  employ our 
operational excellence methodologies (Lean and Six Sigma), 
with specific vendors to define, plan and execute projects that 
bring significant improvements in performance, savings and 
overall value to BD.
• Supplier engagement  is central to our ability to identify and 
partner with suppliers capable of bringing innovation and new 
technology to the market.
• Supply base risk management  quantifies and mitigates 
risks posed to our supply chains, such as business 
discontinuity, financial liquidity, price fluctuations 
and pandemics.Product quality and safety
As BD continues to introduce innovative technologies, our robust quality and regulatory management ensures we deliver to the 
highest standards to the millions of people who use our products each day. Our Quality Policy guides us to consistently provide 
superior products and services worldwide, achieved through customer focus, continuous improvement and maintaining an effective 
quality system. From our suppliers, we expect superior levels of service, quality, cost effectiveness and innovation. Finally, compliance 
with existing and emerging regulations is the foundation of what we do.
Quality management plays a key role in our success by “making 
quality certain." We are driven by our vision of an organization 
where transactions are correct the first time, where efficient and 
effective processes drive our competitiveness and where all 
associates can successfully demonstrate the intent and spirit of 
the Quality Policy.
Our quality systems help ensure compliance with applicable 
global regulations and establish standards for product design, 
manufacturing and distribution. Prior to marketing or selling 
most of our products, we must secure approval or clearance  
from the FDA and counterpart regulatory agencies outside of  the United States. Once BD introduces a product into the market, 
the FDA and counterpart regulatory agencies outside of the 
United States periodically review our quality systems and 
product performance. We regularly analyze our quality processes 
and specifications to ensure efficiency and effectiveness.
When an associate joins BD, they complete training on the 
quality and regulatory requirements for the medical device 
industry as part of their orientation. All associates receive  
the required training to perform their roles and responsibilities 
effectively. Quality management and training
All BD manufacturing locations operate under a certified quality 
system. For the vast majority (100 sites), this is ISO 13485:2016 
Medical Device Quality System. We have a few sites which 
operate under a more general ISO 9001:2015 system as they 
manufacture products for research use only. All sites with an  
ISO 13485 or 9001 quality system undergo an annual 
surveillance audit to assure conformance of the QMS to the 
standards. Additionally, BD has 23 sites which have a Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP) ISO 13485:2016 
certification. The certification program includes regulations for 
five countries and these audits are shared with the competent 
authorities in these countries. The MDSAP participating 
countries are Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan and the United 
States. MSDAP audits are conducted by third-party notified 
bodies which are themselves certified by the five member 
countries as auditing organizations for the program. Quality management systems
Supplier managements and audits14The Regulatory Affairs, Quality Assurance and Quality 
Compliance teams at BD work together on product-related 
regulatory processes, from product concept to obsolescence.
The Global Regulatory Affairs Monitoring Initiative (GRAMI), a 
system that links our worldwide regulatory associates, is set up to 
allow the global regulatory team members to monitor changes 
in regulations, requirements and regulatory agency policies that 
could affect BD operations and products.
The GRAMI team is comprised of BD regulatory professionals 
with expertise in worldwide regulatory policy areas, including compliance, product registrations, labeling standards and other 
areas of pre- and postapproval regulatory requirements.
When changes are identified, they are communicated to 
individuals in relevant business units, functions and 
manufacturing sites who are part of the GRAMI notifications 
system. In addition, BD regulatory leaders in various regions 
engage in meaningful dialogue with their regulators and trade 
associations to seek better understanding, alignment and 
improvements in regulatory requirements and processes that 
affect BD as well as the regulated medical technology industry. 
BD has policies and procedures to ensure the advertising and 
promotion of our products complies with applicable laws and regulations. Expectations around the promotion of our products 
are laid out in our Code of Conduct. 
SASB disclosure: HC-MS-270a.2Regulatory compliance
Product marketingPerformance management processes include conducting quality 
systems assessments (QSAs) for key suppliers according to a 
risk-classification process, determined by both a fixed frequency 
and the quality history of the supplier’s site. QSAs ensure that the 
facilities’ manufacturing materials or components we procure 
have effective quality systems in place to ensure the final 
product will consistently comply with our specifications and 
adhere to all regulatory requirements. BD participates in the 
MDSAP, an international coalition to jointly leverage regulatory 
resources to manage an efficient, effective and sustainable 
single audit program focused on the oversight of medical device 
manufacturers. Participation in this program will allow for the 
conduct of a single regulatory audit of a medical device manufacturer’s quality management system that satisfies  
the requirements of multiple regulatory jurisdictions.  
Auditing Organizations (e.g., BSI, NSAI) execute audits.  
The FDA is transitioning from the Quality System Regulation 
(QSR) to ISO 13485 to better align with MDSAP. As of August 31, 
2018, 2,711 MDSAP certificates have been issued to the industry. 
Currently there are 5 participating countries which include 
Australia, the United States, Brazil, Canada and Japan as well as 
2 observers, WHO and the European Union. Other countries can 
voluntarily accept the MDSAP audit reports from the 
manufacturer but do not have access to the MDSAP Regulatory 
Portal. Learn more about our Procurement Strategy .15
A key part of our product development program is the selection 
of the right materials that ensure patient safety, device 
functional performance and continuity of the device to the 
healthcare market. There are five criteria that are considered 
when selecting materials for any of our devices:
•  What is critical to the function of the product?
•  What is critical to the manufacturability of the product?
•  What is crucial to the quality of the product?
•  What is critical to compliance with regulation?
•  What is critical to business requirements?
Once required material properties have been established, potential 
materials can be identified for feasibility studies. These studies include selection regarding characteristics that include chemical, 
toxicological, physical and mechanical properties. All materials are 
rigorously evaluated for safety and suitability for their intended 
clinical application. Such evaluations include qualification against 
national and international standards for biological safety  
(e.g., ISO 10993 and U.S. FDA guidance on same [2016]) and 
comply with U.S. and international regulations for biological 
(patient) safety. Materials are also subject to re-evaluation under 
conditions as defined in these standards and regulations, for 
example, upon any change in source or specification. All materials 
are subject to BD established controls with respect to formulation 
continuity and ongoing quality conformance.Selecting materials
For each of the critical areas, various questions will be asked in order to generate a list 
of required material properties. For example:
Critical to function:   
Who is the end user? What critical material properties will enable function?
Critical to manufacturability:   
What manufacturing processes will be used? What sterilization method is necessary to 
ensure sterility?
Critical to quality:   
What properties need to be monitored/measured to ensure the product performs consistently?
Critical to compliance :  
What regulatory requirements must the product comply with?
Critical to business requirements:   
Are there constraints on cost or supplier? What options are available for second sources?BD is committed to ensuring patient safety via robust 
postmarket surveillance of our products. Central to this is a 
comprehensive product complaint management program, where 
every complaint is evaluated for potential safety issues and 
determination of need to report as a vigilance event to the FDA 
and other global competent authorities. BD business units 
conduct routine complaint trending evaluations as part of 
corrective and preventive action programs to address corrections 
needed for complaint issues where any trend is detected.
In addition, as part of the BD Global Medical Safety and 
Governance organization, a medical safety review board and 
medical affairs safety council routinely reviews complaints and 
adverse event data specifically looking for potential safety 
signals. The results of these reviews are shared with the BD 
business unit VP of Medical Affairs when applicable, as well as 
part of a monthly Quality and Regulatory leadership meeting.We have escalation policies where potential safety-related issues 
are investigated with the objective of determining the need for 
field actions. BD has a corporate-level policy for internal 
communications and escalation regarding any allegation of a 
patient death related to a BD product. This policy requires 
reporting to the chief medical officer, the chief quality officer, 
the chief regulatory officer and the chief regulatory counsel. The 
process assures each and every potential patient death is 
investigated in a prompt and thorough manner. The escalation 
process is in addition to routine evaluation of all complaints and 
global vigilance reporting requirements. 
Details of FDA actions, including recalls and number of fatalities 
related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and 
User Facility Device Experience (MAUDE) can be found on the 
FDA website . 
SASB disclosures: HC-MS-250a.1; HC-MS-250a.3  
GRI disclosure: 416-2Postmarket surveillance16Our Materials of Concern (MOC) list guides the way we address 
the reduction of MOC across our portfolio. The list contains both 
regulated and nonregulated substances that we consider to be 
of concern and is updated twice a year. It includes substances 
the company has put special emphasis on—for example, PVC 
and phthalates—and those that BD has chosen to avoid and/or 
reduce from its products and packaging.
BD carefully considers the potential impact of the materials we 
use in our products and packaging and considers customer 
preferences related to chemicals of concern in finished goods. In 
order to monitor the changing landscape around chemicals of 
high concern among customers, regulatory bodies and advocacy 
groups, BD established a Chemical Review Board in 2013. This 
internal board, led by our director of Global Product Stewardship, 
includes representation from R&D for each of our business units 
and functional expertise from toxicology and procurement. 
This group is equipped to evaluate the feasibility of alternative 
materials, provide guidance to R&D within the company and 
leverage material expertise across the organization to accelerate 
our work to reduce priority MOC from the portfolio.
While our 2020 sustainability goals related to the reduction of 
priority MOC do not specifically reference safer alternatives, 
internal work processes (such as the Chemical Review Board) 
exist to manage that aspect of chemicals management.
At the corporate level, BD has a Global Product Stewardship 
function, led by a director of Global Product Stewardship and director of Global Product Stewardship Compliance. The Global 
Product Stewardship function reports to the VP of Environment, 
Health & Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S); the VP EHS&S 
reports to the company’s executive VP Integrated Supply Chain.
The Global Product Stewardship team is in place to monitor 
changing global environmental regulations affecting our product 
portfolio (including chemicals of high concern) and provide 
governance over compliance activities carried out by our 
business units. The Global Product Stewardship team also 
administers our system of collecting information from suppliers 
through a dedicated team of supply base compliance associates. 
The team also maintains our MOC list, and owns the central 
database used to manage chemical information at the product 
portfolio level.
The Global Product Stewardship team, and in turn our EHS&S 
function, are accountable for the company’s overall system of 
chemicals management and are responsible for governance over 
compliance with product environmental regulations, such as 
REACH and RoHS. 
Following the acquisition of Bard, we are currently evaluating our 
expanded portfolio against our 2020 product stewardship goals.
Our MOC list and materials for suppliers are available on the 
Supplier Resources page on our website .
SASB disclosure: HC-MS-410a.1Management of Materials of Concern17BD belongs to a broad industry sector whose products include a 
variety of medical devices, diagnostics, biotechnology and 
pharmaceuticals. Products in this sector must meet very stringent 
requirements for demonstration of safety, efficacy and suitability 
for their intended use. As part of this work of ensuring ultimate 
patient safety, existing regulations and standards require the use 
of laboratory animals in research and product evaluation. 
This use of carefully selected and defined animal models is 
required in the development and testing of certain products. 
Further, a defined scope of laboratory animal testing is required 
for regulatory approval and market access of BD products for 
human or veterinary applications. Throughout this essential 
work, BD is committed to animal welfare, as good, sound animal 
welfare is not only the right thing to do, it also leads to good 
scientific data. It is emphasized that any testing involving live 
research animals is undertaken only when absolutely necessary, 
and in keeping with all applicable regulations and current 
best practices. 
Our company’s Animal Research Program is led by a proactive, 
committed team of animal care professionals, that employ best 
practices to ensure all animal associates are treated humanely 
and respectfully. Our program is a leader in animal welfare best 
practices and is influencing the animal research community in 
positive ways. Best practices include providing animal 
acclimation, socialization, stress-free handling and 
environmental enrichment; all to enable animals to display 
natural behaviors and control over their environment. 
BD makes every effort to minimize animal testing by practicing 
the 4 Rs: Replacement (e.g., in vitro testing, literature review), 
Refinement (e.g., approaches always considered to eliminate or 
reduce potential pain and distress), Reduction (e.g., use minimal 
number of animals to achieve scientific results) and Retirement 
(e.g., approved program to adopt out retired laboratory animals 
with attending veterinarian guidance). Very significant effort is 
applied to leveraging alternative information as much as 
possible to preclude direct testing (e.g., historical testing results, 
existing information on materials, history of safe clinical use, 
chemical analysis and toxicologic risk assessment). BD is also 
committed to the pursuit of alternative methods to lab animal 
testing, including in vitro alternatives, computer simulation and 
modeling and application of anatomical models derived from 3D 
printed facsimiles. Our approach is detailed in a BD company policy reviewed and 
approved by senior management of the corporation. The 
requirements of this policy apply not only to internal BD studies, 
but we also require that any/all third parties who carry out animal 
testing on our behalf are covered by our Expectations for Suppliers 
(EFS) and our company policy. We preferentially use AAALAC 
accredited third parties, with limited exceptions when other 
qualification information is considered sufficient and if unique 
expertise limits options. Even in the latter case, the BD Animal 
Research Program performs full supplier animal welfare audits to 
ensure sound animal welfare among animal vendors and suppliers, 
and adherence to our EFS and content of our policy. 
BD maintains an ongoing focus on developments in the research 
animal study and animal welfare communities, with senior staff 
involved in numerous relevant governmental and academic 
organizations. As such, BD is striving to increase transparency in 
this area, and address the potential questions or concerns of our 
customers, shareholders and patients. As one example, BD will be 
hosting its first BRAD (Biomedical Research Appreciation Day) 
event in 2020 as part of an international effort to celebrate the 
contributions of research animals in biomedical research. BD is 
committed to honoring the contributions of animal research to 
ensuring our products are safe and effective for use across human 
and veterinary medicine.Laboratory animal welfare
Replacement
ReﬁnementReduction
Retirementby in vitr o testing, liter ature review
using appr oaches alw ays consider ed 
to eliminate or reduce potential 
pain and distr essuse minimal number 
of animals to achie ve 
scientiﬁc r esults
utilizing an appr oved 
program to adopt out  
retired labor atory 
animals with attending 
veterinarian guidanc e4Rs18Cybersecurity
At BD, our commitment to cybersecurity includes product security, manufacturing security and enterprise security. We strive to ensure 
our products, and the environments in which they are used, meet high security standards so our customers can focus on what 
matters most: caring for patients. While we maintain robust security protocols, we also recognize that new security threats emerge 
daily in the healthcare industry. That is why we believe transparency and collaboration are essential. 
Our strategic approach to cybersecurity includes:
Secure by design
BD products and systems are designed to 
be secure and are developed using 
industry-leading cybersecurity standards.Secure in use
BD products and systems are secured 
and maintained throughout their 
intended life cycle, across all technologies 
and sites.Secure through partnership
BD ensures our strategic vendors also meet 
or exceed our cybersecurity standards.
In an effort to continually improve cybersecurity, we regularly:
• Adopt and update secure and certified standards to mature 
our cybersecurity governance models;
• Perform vulnerability scanning, risk assessments  
and penetration testing for BD products and enterprise 
systems; and  • Provide proactive and timely communications around 
cybersecurity as it relates to our products, enabling customers 
to understand and properly manage a potential risk through 
awareness and guidance.
Certifications and attestations
BD recognizes the value to our customers of independent 
cybersecurity accreditation. Each year, a range of third-party 
audits are performed on BD products and internal cybersecurity 
controls, including: 
Service and Organization Controls (SOC 2®): SOC 2+ is a 
technical audit developed by the American Institute of Certified 
Public Accountants (AICPA) that focuses on the design and 
operating effectiveness of a company’s controls and includes 
compliance with the HIPAA security rule. BD maintains a SOC 2+ 
program to provide controls assurance for those BD products and 
platforms that collect and process patient health information. These audit reports are prepared annually by an independent 
third party and address the effectiveness of BD internal controls 
and the security of our products.  
Underwriters Laboratory Cybersecurity Assurance Program 
(UL CAP):  BD cybersecurity programs and policies have been 
evaluated by the Underwriters Laboratory Cybersecurity 
Assurance Program (UL CAP), which is an independently audited 
certification that demonstrates the cybersecurity of medical 
device products through a rigorous program of analysis, 
including penetration and vulnerability testing.19Collaborating to improve cybersecurity
At BD, we believe industry collaboration makes us stronger.  
The following examples represent the types of collaborations  
we engage in regularly. 
The Biohacking Village Device Lab at DEF CON
BD co-sponsored and participated in the medical device lab, 
which allows medical device manufacturers to submit medical 
devices to be tested by security researchers in a high-trust,  
high-collaboration environment that includes manufacturers, 
regulatory bodies and security researchers collaborating to 
enhance medical device cybersecurity. Forty medical devices 
from ten manufacturers were tested, including four BD products. 
As a result, several third-party vulnerabilities, known as the 
Interpeak IPNET TCP/IP stack , were confirmed. While these 
third-party vulnerabilities were not limited to BD products, BD 
shared them as part of our commitment to transparency and 
participation in the Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure process.  
Healthcare & Public Health Sector Coordinating 
Councils (HSCC)
BD participated in the HSCC Med Tech Cybersecurity Risk 
Management Task Group, co-chaired by Rob Suárez, VP, Chief 
Information Security Officer for BD. In 2019, the task group 
issued the seminal Medical Device and Healthcare 
Information Technology Joint Security Plan (JSP) . The JSP 
outlines specific recommendations for developing, deploying 
and supporting secure medical devices and health IT products. 
Our contribution included a deidentified version of the BD 
Product Security Framework, a schema that drives the security-
by-design principle all medical device manufacturers now follow 
in alignment with the JSP.International Medical Device Regulators Forum – Medical 
Device Cybersecurity Working Group
BD is one of seven nonregulatory members actively 
participating in the International Medical Device Regulators 
Forum (IMDRF) – Medical Device Cybersecurity Working 
Group. This is a collaborative effort with the shared goal of 
harmonizing medical device cybersecurity around the world. 
BD made significant contributions to the IMDRF’s Principles 
and Practices for Medical Device Cybersecurity , which was 
developed in 2019 and finalized in March 2020.  
Cybersecurity bootcamps
In 2019, BD partnered with the New Zealand Ministry of Health 
and healthAlliance on a series of cybersecurity bootcamps in 
collaboration with security researcher and co-founder of I Am 
the Cavalry, Beau Woods. Over 50 clinicians, procurement 
specialists, auditors, biomedical engineers and health IT leaders 
met with security researchers, security experts and device 
manufacturers to discuss how to better collaborate and 
coordinate to protect patient safety.
For more information about BD cybersecurity, visit the  
Cybersecurity  section of our website.
20Medical device sterilization is essential to a functioning and 
effective healthcare system. Sterilization protects patients from 
the risks of infectious diseases caused by bacteria, viruses and 
fungi. At BD, we use a variety of methods to safely sterilize our 
products, including ethylene oxide (or “EtO”), gamma radiation, 
e-beam and moist heat. 
The appropriate method of sterilization depends on a variety of 
factors. For example, a large number of devices can be damaged 
by moist heat, radiation and other modes of sterilization, making 
EtO the only practical sterilization option for those devices. 
Further, viable sterilization methods must not only ensure the 
safety of devices but also provide the ongoing capacity and 
scale required to process the billions of medical devices needed by patients in today’s modern healthcare systems. For these 
reasons and others, EtO sterilization is the method used for 
approximately 50% of our company’s sterile devices.
We recognize the responsibility we have to safely use all modes 
of sterilization in our operations. That is why for decades, BD has 
invested in emission control technologies, process safety controls, 
as well as subject matter expertise in process safety engineering, 
environmental engineering, radiation safety, industrial hygiene, 
sterility assurance and other disciplines. Our Environmental 
Health and Safety (EHS) standards ensure that all BD sterilization 
facilities are designed and operate with a high level of process 
safety and environmental controls.Sterilization
In FY 2019, BD was selected as a participant in the U.S. FDA’s 
innovation challenge to identify new sterilization methods and 
technologies as alternatives to EtO and reduce EtO emissions. 
We were 1 of 12 accepted proposals out of 46 applicants.  
The FDA’s selection of our proposal into the program marks a 
critical step in our ongoing partnership with the FDA. It demonstrates the company’s commitment to improve upon 
and ensure the continued safe use of EtO, and to investigate 
alternative sterilization methods that will provide the same 
sterility assurance and result in the same device performance as 
EtO, at the scale required.U.S. FDA Innovation Challenge
Until there is a safe and effective replacement for EtO, BD will 
continue to pursue our goal to reduce the amount of EtO used 
and minimize emissions from the process. Optimizing EtO 
sterilization cycles, evaluating new device packaging configurations and evaluating new approaches to validation are 
examples of possible ways to minimize the amount of EtO used 
in the sterilization process.Reducing EtO consumption21Enforcement action
• Our infusion pump organizational unit is operating under an 
amended consent decree entered into by CareFusion with 
the FDA in 2007. CareFusion’s consent decree with the FDA 
related to its Alaris ™ SE infusion pumps. In February 2009, 
CareFusion and the FDA amended the consent decree  
to include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for 
CareFusion 303, Inc., the organizational unit that 
manufactures and sells infusion pumps in the United States. 
The amended consent decree does not apply to intravenous 
administration sets and accessories.  
While this BD organizational unit remains subject to the 
amended consent decree, which includes the requirements of 
the original consent decree, it has made substantial progress 
in its compliance efforts. However, we cannot predict the 
outcome of this matter, and the amended consent decree 
authorizes the FDA, in the event of any violations in the 
future, to order us to cease manufacturing and distributing 
infusion pumps, recall products and take other actions.  
We may be required to pay damages of $15,000 per day  
per violation if we fail to comply with any provision of the 
amended consent decree, up to $15 million per year.  
We also cannot currently predict whether additional monetary 
investment will be incurred to resolve this matter or the 
matter’s ultimate impact on our business. We may be 
obligated to pay more costs in the future because, among 
other things, the FDA may determine that we are not fully 
compliant with the amended consent decree and therefore 
impose penalties under the amended consent decree, and/or 
we may be subject to future proceedings and litigation relating 
to the matters addressed in the amended consent decree.  
As of September 30, 2019, we do not believe that a loss is 
probable in connection with the amended consent decree, 
and accordingly, we have no accruals associated with 
compliance with the amended consent decree.While we have implemented, and continue to improve upon, programs and management systems around product quality and safety, 
we are on occasion subject to enforcement action.
• In May 2017, the FDA conducted inspections at BD’s 
Preanalytical Systems (“PAS”) facility in Franklin Lakes, New 
Jersey. In July 2017, the FDA issued a Form 483 to BD PAS in 
connection with these inspections that contained 
observations of non-conformance relating to quality system 
regulations and medical device reporting relating to certain 
of our BD Vacutainer ™ EDTA blood collection tubes.  
On January 11, 2018, BD received a Warning Letter from  
the FDA, citing certain alleged violations of quality system 
regulations and of law. The Warning Letter states that,  
until BD resolves the outstanding issues covered by the  
Warning Letter, the FDA will not clear or approve any  
premarket submissions for Class III devices to which the  
non-conformances are reasonably related or grant requests 
for certificates to foreign governments. We submitted our 
response to the Warning Letter on January 31, 2018.  
BD is working closely with the FDA and intends to fully 
implement corrective actions to address the concerns 
identified in the Warning Letter. However, BD cannot give any 
assurances that the FDA will be satisfied with its responses to 
the Warning Letter or as to the expected date of resolution of 
matters included in the Warning Letter. While BD does not 
believe that the issues identified in the Warning Letter will 
have a material impact on BD’s operation, no assurances can 
be given that the resolution of this matter will not have a 
material adverse effect on BD’s business, results of 
operations, financial conditions and/or liquidity. 
22COVID-19—How BD is mobilizing to help combat the virus
The global pandemic resulting from the COVID-19 virus has brought about unprecedented change and challenges.
BD recognizes that worldwide, hospitals, physicians, laboratories 
and clinics rely on our products to maintain the health of their 
patients. As a company with a global supply chain, we 
understand the importance of ensuring that we can continue to 
supply customers around the world with the products their 
patients rely upon. With over 65,000 associates, we have a 
responsibility to provide safe working conditions, to ensure they, 
their families and the communities they live in, remain healthy.
We have mobilized our product portfolio, to expand diagnostic 
testing; to track and report COVID-19 data and impact; and 
help accelerate discovery of potential therapies and vaccines. 
We have engaged on the front lines, by providing new training 
on infection control practices; our service engineers are 
installing and servicing medical instruments in hospitals caring 
for COVID-19 patients; and we are supporting clinically trained 
BD associates who wish to volunteer to support healthcare 
facilities in their communities.
The situation will continue to evolve, and we will continue to 
prepare and respond. For example, our full portfolio of 
medication delivery devices can support rapid deployment of 
novel COVID-19 treatments and vaccine trials. We are committed to transparency on our response to the 
pandemic and its impacts on our business. Impacts as they 
pertain to our business will be reported via our financial filings 
and quarterly earnings calls, available on the Investors section 
of our website.
For current information on our response to COVID-19, please 
visit our  website .
The information provided below outlines our response  
up to July 2020. We will provide an update in our next 
sustainability report.Mobilization to respond to 
the pandemic has been 
needed across the public, 
private, nonprofit sectors 
and civil society.
Enabled remote work  for office-based associatesEarly to implement visitor restrictions, travel restrictions, limits on group meetings
Implemented screening, social distancing, enhanced cleaning and PPE  for essential 
workers at BD facilities
Enhanced healthcare benefits , including expanding access to telehealth services and 
our Employee Assistance ProgramProvided pandemic pay  to support self-quarantine
Increased paid volunteer leave  for medically trained professionals and created 
Employee Assistance Fund  for furloughed associatesProtecting health  
and safety
Caring for  
our associates
Spotlight—COVID-19
Protecting the health, safety and well-being of BD associates
Deployed PPE  to field-based associates supporting critical customer needs23Our more than 65,000 associates are essential to ensuring our 
customers and their patients continue to receive our products 
and support services. We have taken numerous steps to ensure 
the safety of our associates.
Leveraging technology, much of our global workforce has 
successfully transitioned to working from home. We continue to 
provide a range of guidance and support to help our associates 
maintain physical and mental health.
For associates who remain working at BD facilities, we have 
implemented several protective measures, including:
• Weekly calls are held with site and operations leaders to share 
guidance and best practice.
• Anyone entering a BD facility is temperature screened, and 
only business-critical visitors are allowed on-site.
• Physical distancing measures, tailored by facility, including 
modifying break rooms to provide physical separation and 
staggering break times and modifying workstations to create 
physical distance. Where a physical distance of at least 6 feet 
cannot be fully obtained, associates are provided with face 
shields or masks. 
• All associates performing field work have been issued PPE, 
tailored to the risk level of their activities, along with training 
and guidance on COVID-19 and PPE protocols.For field service associates, protocols have been implemented to 
reduce the number of associates who are deployed, while 
ensuring we meet overall continuity of care and meet customer 
needs due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Additional personal 
protective equipment, along with guidance for use, has been 
issued to any field service associate entering high-risk areas.
Changes in demand across our portfolio has resulted in the 
need to take temporary actions to reduce our costs so we can 
continue to serve our customers now and into the future.  
Steps included temporary work reductions, by slowing or 
suspending production at select manufacturing locations.  
This has led to furloughs, which allows us to retain BD associates 
as employees. While pay has been adjusted accordingly,  
we recognize the disruption this can cause to our associates and 
their families and we want to do everything we can to support 
and care for associates—this includes affected associates 
retaining their benefits, including medical benefits.
We also believe leaders in the company have the responsibility 
to serve and act in the best interest of the company and our 
associates, helping to ensure that we can emerge stronger. 
Therefore, all BD leaders globally, along with the chairman and 
Board of Directors, are subject to a temporary reduction 
in base pay. *
BD operations
Leveraging our world-class manufacturing excellence to address critical 
customer and patient needs
Built for scale and impact
• Significantly ramped production of all 
critical-to-COVID devices, maintaining our 
strong focus on quality and compliance
• Reduced production of select products due 
to lower demand: reinforced strong 
liquidity position
• Engaged governments to ensure business 
and supply chain continuity
*Subject to any required consultation process and local law where applicable
Spotlight—COVID-1924 23In response to very high demand for our critical medical devices, 
production was increased for many of our high-demand 
products and we closely monitor inventory and customer 
ordering to ensure supply continuity. While we continued to 
meet demand for the vast majority of our products, we saw 
high demand in select product categories because of a 
prolonged flu season and the coronavirus pandemic. As a result, a number of products were placed on manual 
inventory allocation to supply our customers as much as 
possible. Manual inventory allocation is an internal process that 
allows BD to retain greater visibility and control of available 
product to effectively serve our customers by ensuring an 
equitable allocation of available inventory. This includes 
reviewing orders for disproportionate quantities based on 
historic demand.Product availability: supply and business continuityBD continues to closely monitor the COVID-19 situation across 
the world and guidance from the CDC, the WHO and health 
officials in a variety of affected countries to ensure the health 
and safety of BD associates while ensuring continued 
availability of our company’s critical medical devices.
BD manufactures and sources product from multiple locations 
around the world. Our manufacturing and distribution centers 
remained operational and enacted business continuity plans to 
minimize the risk of disruption to our customers.We have experienced volatile and unpredictable level of product 
demand across our portfolio. We have seen significant increases 
in demand for products used in sample collection, diagnosis and 
treatment of COVID-19. However, in other parts of our business, 
we’ve experienced drops in demand as healthcare providers 
followed guidance to slow or stop most other hospital visits, 
non-urgent surgeries, elective procedures and other research.
Spotlight—COVID-1925
As one of the largest global medical technology companies in the world, BD has deployed our capabilities, expertise and scale to 
address critical health needs related to coronavirus—from our diagnostic offerings to identify COVID-19, to real-time informatics and 
electronic surveillance technology, to essential medical devices to support patient care.Our products: supporting a global response
• BD announced multiple new products to help aid in the 
detection and identification of COVID-19, including  
a molecular test for the detection of COVID-19 for clinical 
laboratories in countries recognizing the CE mark .
• BD received CE mark and emergency use authorization 
(EUA) from the FDA for an additional molecular 
diagnostics test for COVID-19  that can return results in two 
to three hours, helping to increase the availability of tests 
around the world.
• BD partnered with BioGX to  launch a new diagnostic test 
that will enable hospitals to screen for COVID-19 on-site  
and get results in under three hours.
• BD was granted an EUA for a rapid, point-of-care,  
SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic test for use with the BD Veritor ™ 
Plus System . This new assay delivers results in 15 minutes  
on a highly portable instrument. Portability and ease of use  
is critical for improving access to COVID-19 diagnostics, 
providing real-time results and enabling decision-making 
while the patient is still on-site.• BD collaborated with peers from across the industry, HHS, 
FDA and private partners to identify and validate additional 
swab types as well as transport medium options in order to 
expand capacity and alternative collection methods.
• BD announced the launch of the Prevention Course in 
HAI Knowledge and Control , developed independently by 
the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA) 
and supported in full by an educational grant from BD.Specimen collection and 
transport —used for the 
collection and transport of clinical 
specimens, including viruses.
Swabs —used to collect clinical 
specimens from various body sites.
UVT medium vials —used for the 
transport of clinical specimens, 
including viruses.
UVT kit —a prepacked, individually 
wrapped kit that includes swab(s) 
and a vial for the collection and 
transport of clinical specimens, 
including viruses.BD MAX ™ System —an open 
platform system that enables 
exploratory development of rapid 
tests for COVID-19.
BD Veritor ™ System —a rapid 
point-of-care (POC) platform 
used to diagnose Flu A, Flu B, RSV 
and Strep in minutes. Assay for 
COVID-19 granted emergency 
use authorization by the FDA.Injection devices —specific 
needles and syringes used to 
administer medications required 
for COVID-19 treatment, as well 
as vaccination clinical trials and 
future campaigns.
BD Alaris ™ System —controls 
precise delivery of IV medication 
for COVID-19 treatment.Foley Catheters —used to drain 
urine from the bladder in acute care 
settings.
Peripherally inserted central 
catheters (PICCs) and midlines —
used to rapidly deliver drugs required 
for COVID-19 treatment.
Acute dialysis catheters —used to 
administer immediate dialysis for 
patients who enter acute renal failure.
BD Vacutainer® Luer-Lok ™ Access 
Devices —used specifically to 
facilitate blood sample collection 
from hospitalized patients who have 
existing access lines.Real-time surveillance, reporting and understanding of geographic impact for COVID-19 along with medication use trackingSpecimen collection Diagnostic testing Drug delivery Treatment
In response to the heightened need for trained clinical staff, 
many individuals have chosen to re-enter the medical 
profession, in some cases coming out of retirement. To enable 
them to quickly and easily obtain access to information and 
guidance about our products, we have added instructional 
training videos to our  YouTube channel .
Spotlight—COVID-1926BD has long been known for its public-private partnerships to tackle global challenges. On March 13, BD attended a White House 
meeting with President Trump, Vice President Pence, HHS Secretary Azar and others, alongside CEOs of companies who have been 
involved in the effort to expand access to COVID-19 testing and test development.
The meeting, which encouraged the private sector to continue innovating with full support from the U.S. government, was an 
example of our long history of building relationships with the public sector to address and tackle global challenges, particularly in 
times of crisis.Public-private partnerships
The coronavirus pandemic demonstrates just how vulnerable the 
world’s population is to infectious disease risks and outbreaks. 
We’ve seen natural parallels between the objectives for combating 
COVID-19 and AMR—when medications commonly used to treat 
infections stop working because the organism becomes 
resistant to the drug. 
Both of these global health challenges rely heavily on effective 
infection prevention and control, accessible testing, and 
surveillance and reporting data to track prevalence, progression 
and patient outcomes.Based on the fundamental premise that health challenges and 
threats as large and encompassing as AMR and COVID-19 
cannot ever be addressed by one sector alone, BD will continue 
to engage in extensive cross-sector collaboration with leading 
health agencies, foundations and other organizations around 
the world, underpinned by common motives and goals.
Engagement at all levels of government to:
Safeguard  
operations
Communicate  
capabilities
Mitigate  
capacity  
constraints• Partnered with the  White House Coronavirus Task  
Force  to expand access to diagnostic testing 
• Installed BD MAX ™ System at China CDC  and 
universities in Japan  to support lab-developed tests
• Worked with Health Canada  to ensure adequate 
supply of injection devices for vaccination
• Supported European Commission  efforts to defer 
new regulations that could impede supply• Engaged the governors of six states in Mexico   
to ensure the continuity of BD manufacturing
• Coordinated with the governments of India , 
Malaysia  and Singapore  to ensure BD and our 
suppliers can continue our manufacturing
• Increased sterilization capacity for products critical 
to COVID-19 response
Spotlight—COVID-1927 26Grantmaking: funding frontline relief agencies in the U.S. and globally
At the end of June, BD donated $1,245,000  in cash and 
product to COVID-19 response efforts in the U.S. and 
internationally. The new funding is being deployed through  6 nonprofit partners, to support healthcare workers in the 
United States, Europe, Latin America and China in their 
collaborative battle against COVID-19. 
Spotlight—COVID-19
Throughout the pandemic, we will continue to create and deliver value to all our stakeholders, by prioritizing the needs  
of our associates and customers around the world, while remaining focused on our long-term strategy.
Further details can be found at the  BD COVID-19 response webpage .
28We center our sustainability strategy upon our Purpose—
advancing the world of health ™—and integrally tie it to our 
business strategy. 
We utilize a defined process to evaluate and prioritize the ESG 
factors most relevant to our business and stakeholders. By using 
this process, we have defined four areas of focus that provide 
the framework for our 2020 sustainability goals:
• Innovation – How we contribute to more sustainable 
healthcare systems by improving outcomes, reducing system 
costs and protecting patients and healthcare workers
• Access – How we support health system leapfrogging in 
emerging and developing economies, and reach vulnerable 
populations globally
• Efficiency – How we work across our value chain to minimize 
environmental impact and create positive social impact• Empowerment – How we advance our purpose-driven culture 
through workforce and community engagements
During FY 2019, we began developing our next generation 
sustainability strategy. The first two phases of this work were 
conducted in parallel: 1) identifying our significant ESG issues 
and 2) developing a climate change management program. 
In FY 2020, we will be taking the output of the first two 
phases to develop our impact goals, which we expect to 
announce in late 2020. 
As with the current 2020 goals, our new impact goals will ensure 
we remain focused on shared value creation—meaning how we 
address unmet societal needs through business models and 
initiatives that also contribute to the commercial success of BD.
Solar panels installed at the BD European Headquarters in Eysins, Switzerland. 
GRI disclosure: 102-47 Empowerment
• Inclusion and diversity
• Associate health  
and safety
• Attraction and 
retention of talent
• Transparent and ethical 
business practicesSignificant ESG issues
Our ESG issues are:
 Innovation
• Data security
• Informatics and 
innovation Access
• Collaborations and 
partnerships
• Value-based outcomes
• Patient-centric care
• Healthcare access and 
affordability Efficiency
• Planetary health 
• Sustainable supply chain
• Product design and life 
cycle management
• Energy and GHG  
management
• Waste
• WaterSustainability strategy29Sustainability governance
The Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability Team 
manages our ESG reporting, as well as stakeholder engagement 
activities relevant to our sustainability strategy. This group 
reports directly to the executive vice president of Integrated 
Supply Chain and engages directly with the Executive 
Leadership team. 
Our sustainability strategy is governed by the Executive 
Leadership team, which maintains a dialogue with our 
stakeholders, businesses and associates about issues relevant to 
each group and monitors performance related to our 2020 
sustainability goals.Our Board of Directors—as a board or through its 
committees—also oversees several sustainability-related 
issues, including:
• Community relations
• Employment practices
• Environment, health and safety
• Ethics and enterprise compliance
In addition, the Corporate Governance and Nominating 
Committee oversees matters that involve the company’s image, 
reputation and our standing as a responsible corporate citizen. 
This includes ESG issues and initiatives relating to sustainability, 
access to healthcare and other social topics.
Because of our global reach and the nature of our work, we serve 
and rely on a wide range of stakeholders. Engaging with them 
through a variety of channels across many parts of our 
organization is critical to how we apply the principle of shared 
value and therefore essential to our business success. Often, we 
work collaboratively with stakeholders who share our objectives, 
and, in the process, we gain a deep understanding of their work. 
We listen to our stakeholders’ views and suggestions, and use that 
feedback to improve our products, services and business 
practices. During FY 2019, as we began development of our 
future sustainability strategy, we consulted with our stakeholders 
to understand which ESG factors are most important to them.
Our stakeholders:
• Customers: Our customers are at the center of everything that 
we do. In a fast-changing environment, it is vital for BD to 
understand what our customers value most to develop 
solutions that will best meet their needs. We create a deep 
understanding of the healthcare market and its customers 
through a fact-based approach across regions and strategically 
engage with customers to develop and deploy our products 
and solutions.
• Shareholders: Our focus on shareholders is to ensure that the 
combination of our business and geographic diversity—our 
balanced capital allocation and our drive for efficiency—
provides a long-term pathway toward sustainable profit 
growth that returns capital to shareholders. We engage with 
shareholders in a variety of forms, including quarterly calls and 
in-person meetings, on specific topics that range from our 
long-term growth and innovation strategy to how we integrate 
ESG factors into our business.
• BD associates: BD has grown to over 65,000 associates. The 
capabilities and dedication of these associates are critical to 
achieving our strategy. We engage and develop our associates 
through a variety of mechanisms including internal social 
networks, town hall meetings, leadership and mentoring 
programs and associate resource groups.• Business partners:  Our suppliers, distributors and other 
partners in the supply chain help us effectively serve our 
customers. We engage with them through a variety of 
strategic programs, including through relationship managers 
within our Integrated Supply Chain function.
• Communities: At the country level, our general managers 
engage with a variety of community stakeholders to understand 
the health system’s priorities and align our capabilities to them. 
In communities where we have manufacturing operations, we 
engage with local government officials and civic organizations, 
and often develop relationships with teaching institutions to 
help develop the skill sets we require in our operations.  
In addition, our associates engage in community-organized 
volunteer efforts to support local programs.
• Governments and policymakers:  We engage governments 
and policymakers through various ways, primarily through our 
public policy teams. We engage at the agency and legislative 
levels in many countries to enhance our understanding of the 
priorities of governments. From these engagements, we seek 
ways to deploy our capabilities, products and solutions to help 
support and achieve national health objectives. We also share 
our expertise and global experience in key focus areas.
• International agencies: We engage with UN agencies such 
as the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations 
InterAgency Coordinating Group (UN IACG) on Antimicrobial 
Resistance, UNICEF, the Joint United Nations Programme on 
HIV & AIDS (UNAIDS) and other international and 
intergovernmental organizations through collaborations that 
aim to address pressing global health needs. We routinely 
pursue these types of collaborations as an integral part of our 
business model in countries throughout the world.
• Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs):  In many cases, 
NGOs and relief organizations are strategic partners in helping 
us meet unmet health needs. We engage with them through 
in-person meetings, collaborative initiatives and site visits to 
strengthen how we serve those in need.Stakeholder engagement
GRI disclosure: 102-4030Our sustainability strategy addresses a wide range of challenges 
in our industry while helping to make a difference on relevant 
issues that affect society and the planet. We also actively 
evaluate how we can mobilize and contribute to the 
achievement of the UN SDGs through our product and  
service offerings as well as collaborative efforts across various 
sectors—most prominently around SDG #3, for good health 
and well-being.
We launched our 2020 sustainability goals in July 2015, 
reflecting a broader and more integrated agenda than previous years. In line with our significant sustainability issues, we 
arranged our goals and programs around four strategic areas: 
innovation, access, efficiency and empowerment. 
We have also outlined alignment to our current strategy, core 
activities and 2020 goal framework against the 17 SDGs and 
associated 169 targets. Our analysis reviewed the type of 
impact BD has on the SDG target, the location of impacts 
within the value chain and our degree of control and relevant 
ESG factors.
For case studies of how BD is supporting the SDGs, visit the BD sustainability page . Innovation  
Innovate  key healthcare processes such as medication management and lab automation
Develop  innovations and informatics to enable disease management across the care continuum
Enable  the transition from research into clinical practice
Provide solutions that improve healthcare worker and patient safety
 Access
Develop  low-cost innovations to address leading causes of mortality and morbidity
Collaborate  on health system strengthening with leading agencies and NGOs
Further expand BD manufacturing, product array and employment in emerging countries
 Efficiency
Reduce  GHG emissions and increase climate resilience throughout operations and value chain
Minimize our environmental footprint and conserve natural resources
Establish  a supplier responsibility evaluation methodology
Reduce  priority materials of concern in specified product categories
Improve life cycle impacts of current and future products
 Empowerment
Increase  the diversity of our workforce, particularly in leadership roles
Achieve  best-in-class associate safety performance
Partner  with nonprofits to address unmet needs locally and globally
Drive  social impact and associate engagement through volunteer programs2020 sustainability goals
Innovation               Access                      Efficiency                Empowerment       31Innovation
Healthcare safety, outcomes and cost 
Introduction
BD is on the forefront of helping healthcare systems balance four key priorities: increasing access, 
improving outcomes, mitigating healthcare system cost pressures and protecting patients, and 
healthcare workers. A sustainable innovation system needs investment, discipline and 
leadership to succeed.
Innovation requires diligence and partnering, and our capabilities span ideation through market 
development. Along this continuum, we can increase our impact through selective partnerships.
We think a broad definition of the term “innovation” is the best way to advance healthcare. Whether it 
is technology, processes, systems partnerships or any dimension of business, we pioneer new, relevant 
ways to address healthcare’s most pressing problems. Our technologies and execution capabilities allow 
BD to make a profound impact on the quality of care.
Our Purpose— advancing the world of health ™—and innovating 
to solve major health problems are mutually reinforced goals. 
When we innovate to increase access to quality healthcare, it 
benefits people and societies throughout the world and drives 
our business performance.
BD conducts its R&D activities at its operating units and at BD 
Technologies in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. The 
majority of the company’s R&D activities are conducted in 
North America. Outside North America, BD primarily conducts 
R&D activities in China, France, India, Ireland and Singapore. BD 
also collaborates with certain universities, medical centers and 
other entities on R&D programs and retains individual 
consultants and partners to support its efforts in 
specialized fields. 
Our investments in research and development led to 25 major 
product launches in FY 2019, including:
• Venovo ™ Venous Stent, the first stent indicated to treat 
iliofemoral venous occlusive disease.• Purewick ™ Female External Catheter, a simple, noninvasive 
option for managing female urinary incontinence.
• WavelinQ ™ 4F Arteriovenous Fistula Creation Device, which 
offers an alternative to open surgery for patients being 
treated for end-stage renal disease.
• BD HealthSight ™ Data Manager 1.1, which was introduced as 
part of a suite of technologies and services that are helping 
make medication management safer, simpler and smarter.
• BD Cor ™ System, a high-throughput solution for infectious 
disease diagnostics, which launched in Europe and sets a new 
standard in automation for molecular testing in core 
laboratories and other large centralized laboratories.
• BD FACSDuet ™ Sample Preparation System, an automated 
sample processing system for flow cytometry that enables 
clinical laboratories to improve their efficiency by reducing 
errors and limiting manual user interactions.
R&D expense  
(USD, millions)FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
472 494 550 632 828 770 * 1,004 * 1,062
*Numbers restated in FY 2019 10-K filing.R&D investmentsAccess                     Efficiency                Empowerment       Innovation               31 32For the fifth year in a 
row, BD was included in 
the Derwent Top 100 
Global Innovators list.1 
This list highlights 
high-impact innovation 
and the companies who rank among the world’s 100 most 
successful innovators. The ranking celebrates innovation as measured by the number 
and impact of the company’s patents, using data from the 
Derwent World Patents Index ™. In 2019, BD received more than 
500 U.S. patents and more than 3,000 patents worldwide. 
BD spends more than $1 billion dollars each year on innovation 
annually and has more than 250 new products in our 
development pipeline, spread across our three business segments 
and nine business units.Innovation awards
BD remains focused on delivering sustainable growth and 
shareholder value, while making appropriate investments for the 
future. We operate the business in a manner consistent with 
various core strategies, including: 
• Increasing revenue growth by focusing on our core products, 
services and solutions that deliver greater benefits to 
patients, healthcare workers and researchers;• Supplementing our internal growth through  
strategic acquisitions;
• Continuing investment in research and development  
for platform extensions and innovative new products; and
• Making investments in growing our operations in 
emerging markets.
Reference
1 Derwent. Derwent Top 100 Global Innovators 2020 Report. https://clarivate.com/derwent/top100innovators. Accessed April 20, 2020.Discovery
Providing tools and technologies 
to the research community that 
facilitate the understanding of 
the cell, cellular diagnostics, cell 
therapy and immunologyDiagnostics
Improving clinical outcomes  
through new, more accurate  
and faster diagnostics
Medication  
management
Enabling safer, simpler and  
more effective parenteral  
drug deliveryTherapy  
management
Enhancing disease  
management with our  
product offeringsInnovation strategy
Our strategy focuses on four specific areas within healthcare and life sciences:Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       Innovation               332020 goal
Innovate  key healthcare processes such as medication management and lab automation
Medication management
BD Pyxis ™ SupplyStation ™ RF Cabinet and BD Pyxis ™ KanBan RF System
The BD Pyxis ™ SupplyStation ™ RF Cabinet  is a scalable and 
secure cabinet that leverages ultra-high frequency (UHF) 
radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology for touchless 
inventory management of high-value inventory. This solution 
offers real-time updates for better control and enhanced 
security. This product drives workflow optimization in a simple 
process that links patient electronic medical records (EMRs) with 
associated inventory usage with RFID technology, and provides 
analytics on supply usage, helping to reduce documentation 
error and increase compliance and charge capture.What’s more, the BD Pyxis ™ SupplyStation ™ RF Cabinet is 
compliant with FDA regulations for device recall management 
and unique device identification (UDI), which automatically 
captures an item’s lot, serial number and expiration dates, helping 
healthcare facilities to properly rotate about-to-expire items.
The BD Pyxis ™ SupplyStation ™ RF Cabinet is not only a flexible 
platform that promotes safe and secure inventory 
management, but it also paints a clear picture of inventory 
visibility. Such accurate reporting helps standardize par levels 
and supply usage data, which in turn optimizes inventory control 
and procedural costs. The BD Pyxis ™ SupplyStation ™ RF Cabinet also offers automatic and accurate charge capture by 
interfacing with patient billing software. By minimizing their 
clinical supply chain engagement and maximizing access to the 
right inventory at the right time, clinicians can focus on what 
matters and deliver thorough patient care.
The BD Pyxis ™ Kanban RF System  is an RFID-enabled 
inventory management system that allows for easy tracking of 
supply levels in healthcare facilities. Lack of usage tracking for 
low-value and high-volume supply items can lead to skewed 
inventory levels. For materials management, this causes 
ambiguity in procurement, constant over/under inventory levels 
and can lead to an endless cycle of out-of-balance budgets. The 
BD Pyxis ™ Kanban RF System is a modular, integrated and 
automated end-to-end supply management solution that tracks 
when inventory bins become empty through unique RFID tags, 
and sends an alert to materials management to replenish 
supplies. This helps minimize misplaced, expired or out-of-stock 
inventory, ultimately helping to reduce supply inventory cost in 
healthcare facilities. Even though the product is called BD Pyxis ™ 
Kanban System in reference to a two-bin system, the BD Pyxis ™ 
Kanban RF System is not tied to a certain number of bins.  The BD Pyxis ™ Kanban RF System can be used with an existing 
shelving solution, one bin or multiple bins. The system can 
support up to 150 RFID tags. The BD Pyxis ™ Kanban RF System 
is a flexible solution that can be configured to any inventory 
point in a customer’s facility. Making it a flexible solution for all 
open nonpatient specific open clinical supply scenarios.
The BD Pyxis ™ SupplyStation ™ RF Cabinet and BD Pyxis ™ Kanban 
RF System innovate healthcare procedures by facilitating supply 
through accurate usage tracking, billing and materials 
management. By ensuring that supply closets are optimized for 
usage, healthcare providers can free up time and capacity to 
focus on what matters most, the patient. 
To learn more, contact pyxis_supply_solutions@bd.com
1 Clinicians log in 
and select patient 
and procedure3 Upon door closure, cabinet scans 
for removed items in real time4 Patient record automatically 
updates with removed supplies2 Access cabinet and select 
associate suppliesAccess                     Efficiency                Empowerment       Innovation               33 34Lab automation and efficiency
The BD COR ™ System is the company’s newest solution for 
high volume molecular laboratories. The high throughput 
solution for infectious disease diagnostics sets a new standard 
in automation for molecular testing in core laboratories and 
other large centralized laboratories. The system’s initial launch 
occurred in June 2019 with CE-Marking for the BD COR ™ PX 
and GX Instruments, automating the testing for BD Onclarity ™ 
HPV Assay used for the detection and extended genotyping of 
human papillomavirus (HPV). The system enables the 
processing of samples directly from liquid-based cytology vials, 
the creation of molecular aliquot tubes and assay testing, 
replacing labor-intensive and error-prone manual processes 
with automated ones. 
The BD COR ™ System integrates and automates the complete 
molecular laboratory workflow from preanalytical processing 
to diagnostic test result. The system includes three 
instruments, the PX, GX and MX instruments that can be used 
in multiple configurations. The BD COR ™ PX Instrument is the 
system’s preanalytical module—processing samples and 
sending to either the GX or MX for testing. The GX instrument 
performs the BD Onclarity ™ HPV Assay and the MX instrument 
will perform other molecular assays that will be available in 
the future. The BD COR ™ System was designed to meet the needs of 
centralized testing laboratories, helping address many of  
the challenges they face in high-volume molecular testing.  
The system design provides:
• Complete automation with a fully integrated preanalytical 
solution for samples requiring additional processing prior 
to analysis;
• High capacity for samples and reagents resulting in minimal 
intervention for laboratory staff enabling resource allocation 
where needed;
• Ready-to-load reagents in bulk format to reduce hands on 
time and possible errors;
• Continuous access for loading samples and consumables  
for flexible workflow; and
• Multiple configurations to meet the needs of  
multiple laboratories.
Over the coming years, BD plans to continue seeking 
regulatory authorizations to sell the BD COR ™ System  
around the world while expanding the instrument 
configurations and content.BD COR ™ System
Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       Innovation               352020 goal
Develop  innovations and informatics to enable disease management across the care continuum
BD HealthSight ™ Diversion Management Analytics
Addiction to prescription narcotics in the U.S. has reached 
epidemic proportions, contributing to the opioid crisis and 
becoming a major driver of drug diversion within healthcare 
settings.2 Diversion of drugs, for personal use or illegal 
distribution, can cause significant financial loss3 and potentially 
impact care to patients and staff safety.4
As part of the BD HealthSight ™ Platform  that is designed to 
support enterprise-wide medication management, the  
BD HealthSight ™ Diversion Management Analytics Application 
assists with opioid drug diversion investigations by creating an 
investigation workflow to monitor, triage and assign potential 
diversion cases to specific investigators. Compared to 
traditional, statistically based analytical tools that only look at 
opioid amounts dispensed to identify potential diversion, BD 
utilizes machine learning algorithms and multiple dispensing 
behaviors—such as overrides, canceled transactions, delays in 
dispense, administration or waste—to surface clinicians whose 
behavior indicates higher risk for diversion.BD has partnered with Microsoft, who brings industry-leading 
expertise in artificial intelligence (AI) and data science 
methodologies, to support development of these machine 
learning based algorithms. Importantly, the application also 
aggregates EMR and dispensing cabinet data to automate a 
normally time consuming and tedious manual review process to 
reconcile and automatically flag anomalous dispense 
administration and waste transactions.
To enable analytics and support data normalization, BD 
introduced the BD HealthSight ™ Data Manager, which is a 
hosted, cloud-based solution that provides a single platform to 
normalize medication data. The tool can map disparate med 
IDs to enable analytics, including BD HealthSight ™ Diversion 
Analytics risk algorithm, while simplifying formulary 
maintenance across a health system.
References
2 Cicero TJ, Ellis MS. The prescription opioid epidemic: a review of qualitative studies on the progression from initial use to abuse. Dialogues Clin Neurosci . 2017;19(3):259-269.
3 Bouffard K. UM pays 4.3M to settle federal charges for stolen drugs, but criminal charges possible. The Detroit News. August 30, 2018. https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/local/
michigan/2018/08/30/university-michigan-3-million-settle-federal-drug-diversion-lawsuit/1145373002/; Accessed October 30, 2018.
4 Hospital tech who spread hepatitis C through drug use sentenced to 39 years. CBS News. December 2, 2013. https://www.cbsnews.com/news/lab-tech-hepatitis-c-kwiatkowski-sentenced-39-
years. Accessed October 30, 2018.BD P yxis™
CIISafe
SystemBD Pyxis™ ES System + 
BD Pyxis™ ES RefrigeratorBD P yxis™
IV Prep
SystemBD P yxis™
Logistics
Software
BD HealthSight™ Pl atform
EMRPharma cy Patient care Patient
Enterprise master data management enabling 
analytics and simplifying formulary managementOperations dashboard with real-time viewsBD Alaris™ 
Infusion SystemInve ntory opt imiza tion | Diversio n manageme nt | Me dication safetyAccess                     Efficiency                Empowerment       Innovation               35 362020 goal
Enable  the transition from research into clinical practice
The BD FACSLyric ™ Clinical Flow Cytometer is a standardized, 
easy-to-use in vitro diagnostic (IVD) system, for use with BD 
Multitest ™ Assays for immunological assessment of individuals 
and patients having, or suspected of having, immune 
deficiency. BD FACSLyric ™ Flow Cytometer is available in 
4-color to 12-colors with on-site upgradeable features to adapt 
to a lab’s changing needs. It supports the BD Multitest ™ 
4-Color Assays and the BD Multitest ™ 6-Color TBNK Assay, 
which are some of the most used flow-based IVD assays. 
These tests determine the percentages and absolute counts of 
T, B and natural killer (NK) cells, as well as the CD4 and CD8 
subsets of T cells. Together, these metrics can be used in the 
immunological assessment of individuals and patients having, 
or suspected of having, immune deficiency. BD FACSLyric ™ 
Clinical Flow Cytometer capabilities enable standardization 
and collaboration through consistent results and unique assay 
portability across labs, in the same site or across the globe.
The BD FACSDuet ™ Automated Flow Cytometry System is a 
fully automated sample preparation instrument that enables clinical laboratories to improve their efficiency by reducing errors 
and limiting the manual user interactions required to run assays 
on the BD FACSLyric ™ Clinical Flow Cytometer. These solutions 
may help clinical laboratories improve accuracy and 
repeatability of their assays by minimizing manual steps that 
can introduce errors. With complete workflow traceability, it 
supports the labs to be compliant with ISO-15189 accreditation.
Physical integration between the BD FACSDuet ™ System and 
the BD FACSLyric ™ Clinical Flow Cytometer allows technicians 
to load samples and reagents onto the BD FACSDuet ™ System 
and receive data once the samples are fully processed from 
the BD FACSLyric ™ Clinical Flow Cytometer—a complete 
walkaway sample to answer solution. Data integration using 
the BD FACSLink ™ Middleware Solution offers bidirectional 
communication between the instruments and connectivity 
with laboratory information systems (LISs).
Visit our biosciences site  to learn more about the company’s 
portfolio of clinical flow cytometry products.BD FACSLyric ™ Clinical Flow Cytometer and BD FACSDuet ™ System
Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       Innovation               372020 goal
Provide  solutions that improve healthcare worker and patient safety
Technology is advancing capabilities for how clinicians and patients manage disease across the care continuum. We work closely with 
healthcare systems to improve safety, costs and outcomes. We continue to invest in new technologies and leverage informatics to 
enhance our product and solution offerings. As we pursue new digital technologies, we are committed to providing secure products 
to our customers. 
OptiFix ™ AT Absorbable Fixation System
The OptiFix ™ AT Fixation System is an articulating mesh fixation 
device that allows for traditional straight fixation plus the option 
to articulate the tip to better access areas where mesh fixation 
may otherwise be difficult, such as locations close to the trocar. 
OptiFix ™ AT Fixation System helps address some of the 
challenges associated with traditional straight fixation devices 
which includes technical limitations that may result in nonideal 
fastener placement, which is a mechanism for mesh shift, 
migration, inadequate mesh overlap, folding and fastener 
engagement. The ergonomic OptiFix ™ AT Fixation System is 
designed to provide full mesh access from one side of the 
patient, deliver more consistent perpendicular fastener 
deployment and enhance surgeon comfort. Improved access 
may reduce the total number of trocars needed. Studies demonstrate that reducing trocars can result in cost savings, 
reduced risk of infections and reduced trocar site herniation. 
Further, consistent perpendicular fastener deployment enables 
secure fixation across the entire mesh, leading to improved 
fastener tissue purchase and fixation strength, as well as 
facilitating mesh positioning and reducing the chance for mesh 
to be pulled away during fastening.
PureWick ™ Female External Catheter Kit
An estimated 35,6005 patients experience catheter-associated 
urinary tract infections each year, also known as CAUTIs—which 
lead to increased costs and longer hospitals stays.6 The #1 risk 
factor for CAUTI is prolonged catheterization.6,7 The #2 risk 
factor is female gender and 61% of catheterized patients are 
women.8 Until recently, external catheters were only available  
for men—leaving women with no external catheter option for 
urine output.
The PureWick ™ Female External Catheter was the first female 
external catheter that allowed for simple, noninvasive urine 
management for women. The PureWick ™ Female External 
Catheter helps lower CAUTI risk by providing an alternative for 
urine management and helps facilitate approximate urine 
measurement when utilizing an appropriate collection canister. 
First used in a hospital in January 2016, the PureWick ™ Female 
External Catheter uses low pressure wall suction and wicks away 
urine from the patient and into a designated collection canister. 
Today, PureWick ™ Female External Catheter is used in over 2,200 hospitals in the United States and has also recently become 
available in Canada, Japan, the U.K., Brazil, Chile and China.
The latest PureWick ™ Female External Catheter platform 
innovation is the launch of a new user-friendly kit. The PureWick ™ 
Female External Catheter Kit is a solution designed to help with 
consistent practice of noninvasive urine management for 
women. A duration label assists nursing staff in determining how 
long the device has been in place and standardized SureStep ™ 
Peri-Care Wipes help facilitate patient cleaning practice through 
step-by-step instructions. These aspects of device and patient 
care play a vital role in patient hygiene and skin integrity.
References
5 Magill SS, Edwards JR, Bamberg W, et al. Multistate point-prevalence survey of health care–associated infections. N Engl J Med . 2014;370:1198-1208.
6 Scott RD 2nd; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The direct medical costs of healthcare-associated infections in U.S. hospitals and the benefits of prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/
HAI/pdfs/hai/scott_costpaper.pdf. Published March 2009. Accessed June 19, 2020.
7 Maki D, Tambyah P. Engineering out the risk for infection with urinary catheters. Emerg Infect Dis . 2001;7(2):342-347.
8 Daniels KR, Lee GC, Frei CR. Trends in CAUTIs among a national cohort of hospitalized adults. Am J Infect Control.  2014;41(1):17-22.
Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       Innovation               37 38WavelinQ ™ 4F EndoAVF System
Chronic kidney disease affects millions of people worldwide. The 
final stage of kidney disease is called end-stage kidney disease 
(ESKD). Patients with ESKD require dialysis treatments or a 
kidney transplant to sustain life. Globally, there are more than  
2 million patients on hemodialysis with the majority depending 
on a fistula as their lifeline for dialysis therapy.10
To administer hemodialysis treatment, an “access” to the 
bloodstream is required. Arteriovenous fistulas (AVF) are the 
preferred access method. An AVF is a connection between an 
artery and a vein, most often created surgically. This connection 
increases blood flow in the vein, providing a method to perform 
hemodialysis. Surgical AVFs have been the standard of care for 
hemodialysis patients for over 50 years, until now.
The WavelinQ ™ 4F EndoAVF System is designed to create an 
endovascular AVF (endoAVF) for hemodialysis access in patients 
who have ESKD and need dialysis. This innovative technology is 
one of the first to provide a nonsurgical option to create an AVF.
The WavelinQ ™ 4F EndoAVF System is comprised of two 
4-French (4F) single-use, disposable, magnetic,  hydrophilic-coated catheters: a venous catheter and arterial 
catheter. The venous catheter contains a radiofrequency (RF) 
electrode for the delivery of RF energy. The arterial catheter 
contains a ceramic backstop for receiving the electrode. Each 
catheter is equipped with 36 square magnets, which allow for 
flexibility and coaptation while navigating in the vessels. When 
placed in proximity, the magnets attract to each other, pulling 
the vessels together and aligning the electrode with 
the backstop. 
Once the catheters are aligned, a small burst of RF energy is 
used to create a channel between the artery and vein to create 
the endoAVF. The catheters are then removed, and blood will 
flow from the artery into the vein, creating an enhanced blood 
flow that can support hemodialysis. 
For more information, visit the WaveLinQ ™ 4F EndoAVF 
System webpage .Venovo ™ Venous Stent System
The Venovo ™ Venous Stent System is indicated for the treatment 
of symptomatic iliofemoral venous outflow obstruction. The 
stent is designed with the balance of radial strength, 
compression resistance and flexibility needed for the treatment 
of symptomatic postthrombotic and nonthrombotic iliofemoral 
lesions. Key product features include 3-mm flared ends designed 
to prevent stent migration, broad size range (10- to 20-mm 
diameters, 40- to 160-mm lengths) and a triaxial delivery 
system designed for placement accuracy.
One-year results from the product’s prospective, multicenter, 
single-arm VERNACULAR trial * involving 170 patients 
demonstrated the safety and effectiveness of the Venovo ™ 
Venous Stent for the treatment of symptomatic iliofemoral 
venous outflow obstruction. The clinical findings showed a 
weighted primary patency rate of 88.3%, with a 96.9% patency 
rate in nonthrombotic lesions and an 81.3% patency rate in 
postthrombotic lesions, a statistically significant difference from 
the performance goal of 74%. For more information regarding 
Venovo ™ Venous Stent System, visit the product webpage .*The Venovo ™ Venous Stent System was studied in the global 
VERNACULAR clinical trial, which was a prospective, multicenter, 
nonrandomized, single-arm study of 170 patients. The primary 
effectiveness endpoint of the study was primary patency (PP) at 
12 months post-index procedure. Patients who received a 
Venovo ™ Venous Stent had a weighted PP rate of 88.3%, 
demonstrating a statistically significant difference from a 
literature-derived performance goal (PG) of 74%, with an 81.3% 
PP rate for subjects with postthrombotic syndrome and 96.9% 
PP rate for subjects with nonthrombotic iliac vein lesions.9
References
9 Data on file. Bard Peripheral Vascular Inc., Tempe, AZ.
10 National Kidney Foundation. Global facts about kidney disease. https://www.kidney.org/kidneydisease/global-facts-about-kidney-disease. Accessed June 23, 2020. 
*The VENOVO® Venous Stent System was studied in the global VERNACULAR clinical trial, which was a prospective, multicenter, nonrandomized, single-arm study of 170 patients. The primary 
effectiveness endpoint of the study was primary patency (PP) at 12 months postindex procedure. Patients who received a VENOVO® Venous Stent had a weighted PP rate of 88.3%, 
demonstrating a statistically significant difference from a literature-derived performance goal (PG) of 74%, with an 81.3% PP rate for subjects with post-thrombotic syndrome and 96.9% PP 
rate for subjects with nonthrombotic iliac vein lesions.9Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       Innovation               39AMR
Antimicrobial resistance, or AMR for short, is among the greatest 
threats to the health and well-being of the world’s population. If 
present trends continue, by 2050 AMR will become a greater cause 
of mortality than heart disease or cancer.11 As the bacteria that 
cause infections become increasingly drug resistant, even 
common medical procedures—including surgery, childbirth and 
chemotherapy—will become increasingly life-threatening. This is 
not a theoretical future risk; it is already happening. In 2019, the 
CDC released updated estimates for the toll of drug-resistant 
infections in the United States, demonstrating that the risk is 
greater than previously believed, affecting over 2.8 million 
patients annually. And as the COVID-19 pandemic has 
demonstrated, the threat of untreatable infections 
remains very real.Antimicrobials are a mainstay of modern medicine, but 
decades of outmoded prescribing practices and extensive use 
of antimicrobials in food production have driven a rise in 
organisms that are resistant to these life-saving drugs. While 
much of the focus on AMR has highlighted the need for a 
renewed pipeline of new antimicrobials, experts including the 
WHO and CDC recognize the need for a multipronged 
approach which includes improved infection prevention, 
increased utilization of diagnostic testing and antibiotic 
stewardship to preserve our current antibiotics. 
$20 billion annually in 
the United States700,000 preventable 
deaths worldwide 
annually10 million deaths and 
more than $1 trillion 
per year by 2050Cost12Impact13Projections14
Some bacteria are 
resistant to 
antibioticsResistant bacteria 
pass between peopleDrug-resistant bacteria 
become dominant and 
spreadDrug-resistant 
bacteria survive  
and multiplyAntibiotics kill both 
good and bad 
bacteria
References
11 O’Neill J; The Review on Antimicrobial Resistance. Tackling drug-resistant infections globally: final report and recommendations. https://amr-review.org/sites/default/files/160518_Final%20
paper_with%20cover.pdf. Published May 2016. Accessed March 15, 2020.
12 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Antibiotic threats in the United States 2013. https://www.cdc.gov/drugresistance/
threat-report-2013/index.html. Accessed March 15, 2020.  
13 O’Neill J; Tackling drug-resistant infections globally: final report and recommendations. https://amr-review.org/sites/default/files/160525_Final%20paper_with%20cover.pdf. Published May 
2016. Accessed March 15, 2020.
14 O’Neill J; Antimicrobial resistance: tackling a crisis for the health and wealth of nations. 
https://amr-review.org/sites/default/files/AMR%20Review%20Paper%20-%20Tackling%20a%20crisis%20for%20the%20health%20
and%20wealth%20of%20nations_1.pdf. Published December 2014. Accessed March 15, 2020.40BD is leveraging its extensive global capabilities to meaningfully engage around each of the five key strategies outlined in the WHO’s 
Global Action Plan on AMR and adopted by the United Nations Interagency Coordination Group on Antimicrobial Resistance:
Improving awareness and education remain a critical 
component of efforts to combat AMR. The Antimicrobial 
Resistance Fighter Coalition (ARFC) , mobilized by BD, aims to 
raise awareness and emphasize the need for a broad array of 
stakeholders to take personal responsibility in combating AMR. 
The Coalition continues to grow with over 200 participants from 
43 countries, including government and nongovernment 
organization leaders, patient advocacy groups, clinicians, 
researchers, patients and family members. With the launch of a 
new website and social media channels, the Coalition engages 
globally to provide information and updates with videos, online 
education and news articles. In September 2019, the Coalition 
co-hosted a side event during the United Nations General 
Assembly week with the CDC, Wellcome Trust, the American 
Society of Microbiology and the Bill and Melinda Gates 
Foundation. An international audience attended the event to 
hear from global leaders and were invited to view the U.S. 
premiere of a full-length documentary on AMR titled 
Antimicrobial Resistance Fighters.  
To reinforce appropriate infection prevention and control 
behaviors, BD partnered with SHEA to launch Prevention CHKC, 
an online course for frontline providers reinforcing the 
importance of infection prevention practices in healthcare.  
To support understanding of the role of diagnostics in the 
appropriate use of antimicrobials, BD partnered to create and 
launch new training and assessment tools. Read more about the 
massive online open course on AMR diagnostics and AMR 
scorecard in the Access  section of this report. Strategy 1: Improve awareness, education and training
Strengthening surveillance and reporting are necessary to better understand the 
scale of the challenge and develop an appropriate response. In 2019, BD provided 
extensive data and analytics to the CDC utilizing insights from our proprietary 
hospital surveillance and analytics platforms. These data were integrated in the 
CDC Antibiotic Resistance Threats Report,15 released last year, which highlights 
the prevalence and impact of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and fungi on patients 
in the United States.Strategy 2: Strengthen evidence via surveillance
Reference
15 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Antibiotic resistance threats in the United States: 2019. https://www.cdc.gov/drugresistance/pdf/
threats-report/2019-ar-threats-report-508.pdf. Updated December 2019. Accessed March 15, 2020.
41 40Reducing risk of infection is an essential component of the global 
effort to combat AMR. When selecting, placing and maintaining 
medical devices, proper hand hygiene, aseptic technique and 
compliance to guidelines are necessary to reduce risks to 
patients from healthcare-associated infections (HAIs). And since 
resistant infections spread easily among patients in healthcare 
facilities, patient screening and universal precautions may 
reduce transmission of infections. BD is leveraging our expertise 
in diagnostics, vascular access, surgical preparation and critical 
care to support hospitals’ infection prevention and 
control programs. In addition to deploying these programs at an individual health 
facility level, BD has worked in collaboration with national 
governments in multiple countries, including the U.S., China, 
Kenya, Cambodia and India, via public-private partnerships to 
improve infection prevention and control capabilities in hospitals. 
See the Access  section for additional details on our programs to 
improve infection prevention practices.Strategy 3: Reduce incidence of infection
Diagnostic tests classify infections and guide therapies, enabling 
clinicians to implement effective antimicrobial stewardship 
interventions. In 2019, BD announced a collaboration with the 
Fleming Fund to equip more than 70 labs in developing and 
emerging countries with diagnostic instruments, tests and 
training to help aid in the diagnosis of infections and guide 
physicians on appropriate antimicrobial prescribing and use. 
In the U.S. and other industrialized countries, BD introduced the 
BD HealthSight ™ Clinical Advisor Platform to identify when an 
inappropriate and potentially ineffective antibiotic has been prescribed. Actionable alerts are delivered to clinicians involved 
in the medication management process to assist with selection 
of antibiotics and avoid waste of resources associated with 
compounding of unnecessary medications. BD HealthSight ™ 
Clinical Advisor is a key component of our connected medication 
management system, which includes automated dispensing and 
infusion technologies that help pharmacies efficiently dispense, 
track and deliver medications. Strategy 4: Optimize the use of antimicrobials
Minimizing risk of infections is the first step in combating AMR. 
BD ChloraPrep ™ Skin Preparation is the leading standard of care 
for preoperative antiseptic skin preparations. In 2019, BD 
announced it received FDA approval for BD ChloraPrep ™ Skin 
Preparation with sterile solution, the only fully sterile 
chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG) antiseptic skin preparation 
commercially available in the U.S. This new BD ChloraPrep ™ Skin 
Preparation product uses a proprietary and patented process to 
sterilize the antiseptic solution inside the sealed ampoules 
located in the BD applicator. “Outbreaks of highly resistant bacteria and spore 
contamination have been reported with contaminated 
antiseptic products in the past. Now with a fully sterilized skin 
preparation product, BD is assisting healthcare providers with a 
tool to enhance patient safety by the reduction of risk from 
intrinsic contamination in antiseptic solutions,” said Donald E. 
Fry, M.D., a nationally recognized expert in infection prevention.Strategy 5: Innovations to help combat AMR
In response to the global threat of AMR and under the guidance of the UN AMR Interagency Coordination Group, most 
countries throughout the world have established AMR national action plans. BD is engaging with ministries of health, 
international agencies and other partners to integrate our AMR capabilities and initiatives within these country-level 
plans. We are doing so in a manner that appropriately aligns our actions to the stage of development of the countries 
and the hospitals we are working in. These actions and activities reflect the company’s strong commitment to combating 
the global risk of drug-resistant infections. And as the COVID-19 pandemic has reminded all of us, untreatable infectious 
diseases remain a very real threat to all of us.
42Introduction
BD believes in the vision of a world free of disease and needless suffering. We think healthcare is  
so fundamental that it can create more productive, educated and equitable societies.
BD Global Health works to expand access and drive capacity building through partnerships with 
leading organizations and governments. We engage in advocacy with governments, donors and 
health agencies to advance innovations around the world to address the world’s leading public 
health needs, which are highly aligned with the UN SDGs.
The business model for emerging markets encourages our country leaders to understand the health 
system priorities in their country and engage with key opinion leaders responsible for health policies 
and practices. This enables BD to engage at earlier stages in the healthcare decision-making process 
and adapt our strategic plans for product array, manufacturing and talent accordingly.Access
Healthcare in resource-limited 
populations
2020 goal
Develop  low-cost innovations to address leading causes of mortality and morbidity
In FY 2019, the first feasibility clinical trial of the BD Odon Device ™ 
was completed in the U.K. and two safety and efficacy clinical 
trials received ethics and regulatory approvals and started in  
the U.K. and France. This investigative device is intended to 
provide a safe and effective alternative for assisted vaginal  
birth (AVB) when labor is prolonged or complicated, a condition 
that occurs in approximately 10% of pregnancies. Untreated, 
prolonged/complicated labor can lead to serious complications 
for mothers and babies, including postpartum hemorrhage, 
birth asphyxia, maternal infection, fistulas or even death.16  
In addition, increased access to AVB could reduce the use of 
cesarean delivery and its associated higher costs for the health 
system and the inherent risks of severe complications  
(e.g., hemorrhage, stillbirth, abnormally invasive placenta)  
in the current and subsequent pregnancies.17-20 Maternal and newborn health is a key component of UN 
Sustainable Development Goal 3 for good health and  
well-being. Although WHO guidelines call for access to AVB  
at all facilities that provide basic management of obstetric 
emergencies, a recent study in sub-Saharan Africa showed 
that only 54% of hospitals and 6% of health centers were able 
to conduct AVB in the past year.21 By driving forward the 
investigative BD Odon Device ™, this partnership is moving this 
technology closer to in-field use.Maternal and newborn health; investigative BD Odon Device™
References
16 O’Mahony F, Hofmeyer GJ, Menon V. Choice of instruments for assisted vaginal delivery. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 2010;(11):CD005455.
17 Clark EA, Silver RM. Long-term maternal morbidity associated with repeat cesarean delivery. Am J Obstet Gynecol . 2011;205:S2-S10.  
18 Moraitis AA, Oliver-Williams C, Wood AM, Fleming M, Pell JP, Smith G. Previous caesarean delivery and the risk of unexplained stillbirth: retrospective cohort study and meta-analysis. BJOG . 
2015;122:1467-1474.
19 Murphy DJ, Liebling RE, Verity L, Swingler R, Patel R. Early maternal and neonatal morbidity associated with operative delivery in second stage of labour: a cohort study. Lancet . 
2001;358:1203-1207.  
20 Bailey PE. The disappearing art of instrumental delivery: time to reverse the trend. Int J Gynaecol Obstet . 2005;91:89-96.
21 Bailey PE, van Roosmalen J, Mola G, Evans C, de Bernis L, Dao B. Assisted vaginal delivery in low and middle income countries: an overview. Br J Obstet Gynaecol . 2017;124(9):1335-1344.Innovation               Efficiency                Empowerment       Access                     42 432020 goal
Collaborate  on strengthening health systems with leading agencies and NGOs
AMR is among the most significant threats to health and 
well-being of the world’s population. If present trends continue, 
AMR is projected to become one of the leading causes of 
human mortality and may cause 10 million deaths each year by 
2050. AMR is a global concern that endangers people in every 
region and country around the world—and is a particular threat 
to low- and middle-income countries.BD has formed several innovative partnerships with leading 
health agencies and NGOs, each of which aims to raise 
awareness of this growing global threat; better understand the 
scale and scope of the challenge; help reduce the risk of 
infection and drive optimal antimicrobial use—particularly in 
low- and middle-income countries.
Global experts have identified several challenges that low- and 
middle-income countries face when addressing AMR. There are 
too few trained microbiologists, few health facilities that 
routinely undertake bacterial culture and still fewer facilities that 
meet the requirements for accreditation.
To respond to these challenges, BD and The London School of 
Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, together with a global advisory 
group of experts, have partnered to create the Massive Open 
Online Course (MOOC) that educates participants about how 
diagnostics can be leveraged to reduce the inappropriate use of 
antibiotics, screen patients with resistant bacteria in healthcare 
settings, and monitor AMR trends and the effectiveness of 
antibiotic stewardship strategies.
By the end of FY 2019, this curriculum had reached 9,000 
participants; 97% of whom said they gained new knowledge; 
and 87% said they have applied what they learned. Two new 
courses will be launched in 2020.Six weekly modules that focus on WHO priority pathogens
Module 1:  Introduction
Module 2:  Common clinical syndromes
Module 3:  Healthcare-associated infections by pathogens
Module 4:  Enteric infections and One Health
Module 5:  TB/Neisseria gonorrhea
Module 6:  The path forward and certification *Innovative partnerships to strengthen lab systems and combat AMR
Educating and advocating for AMR
*Certification is optional, at a cost.
Innovation               Innovation               Efficiency                Empowerment       
Access                     Access                     43 44The Fleming Fund, a U.K. aid program, provides grants to improve 
the surveillance of AMR and generate relevant data that is shared 
nationally and globally. In 2019, The Fleming Fund awarded 
grants to diagnostic sector companies for strengthening 
laboratory systems in 24 countries. BD was awarded grants to 
expand its automated blood culture and identification and antimicrobial susceptibility testing (ID/AST) technologies to help 
strengthen laboratory systems’ ability to combat AMR in 19 of the 
24 countries. This broad-based award includes application of the 
company’s collaborative program initiatives for strengthening 
laboratory systems.
To strengthen capacities to combat AMR at an individual 
laboratory level and across the national laboratory system, in  
FY 2019 BD partnered with the Foundation for Innovative New 
Diagnostics (FIND), a Geneva-based NGO, to develop the AMR 
Scorecard for Lab Quality Improvement. The program, which will be launched in FY 2020, will utilize a stepwise evaluation 
methodology to assess AMR-related laboratory capabilities and 
address the specific gaps through mentorship and training.
Lack of access to reliable drug-susceptibility testing (DST) is a 
critical public health challenge posed by drug resistant forms 
of TB. On average, it is estimated that 50% of those in need of 
second-line drug-susceptibility testing in high-burden countries do 
not receive it. 
To better understand the barriers that stand in the way of patient 
access to this life-saving testing, BD and USAID formed a 
partnership, called STRIDES (Strengthen TB Resistance Testing 
and Diagnostic Systems). 
As part of the partnership, BD and USAID are working in India 
with the National TB Elimination Program (NTEP) to strengthen 
liquid culture and drug-susceptibility testing across all 55 labs in 
the national network to improve detection and appropriate 
treatment for multidrug-resistant TB patients across the country. 
Key FY 2019 highlights of this partnership include:
• the development of a first-of-its-kind lab assessment tool for 
liquid culture and drug-susceptibility testing for TB;
• the completion of an assessment of the specimen referral 
system (SRS) for sputum samples; 
• work toward an integrated, GIS-enabled, barcode-enabled 
software for tracking specimen to help reduce the turnaround 
time from sample collection to diagnosis and treatment; and
• strengthening data management systems for tracking 
specimen results and optimizing lab workflow.
At the 50th Union World Conference on Lung Health in 
Hyderabad, USAID honored BD for its commitment to 
strengthening the national TB program in India.
“The BD-USAID STRIDES partnership has enabled us to conduct 
lab assessments and lab staff trainings at our public sector Liquid 
Culture and Drug Susceptibility Testing sites, which are critical to our National Tuberculosis Elimination Program. The BD-USAID 
STRIDES team brings innovation and technical expertise to the 
table, and we look forward to continuing to collaborate with them 
to achieve the goal of eliminating TB from India by 2025,” states 
Dr. Nishant Kumar, Deputy Director, Central TB Division, Ministry 
of Health and Family Welfare, Govt. of India
In FY 2019, BD signed a memorandum of understanding with 
USAID to expand the STRIDES program to Indonesia—with the 
goal of working across 4 national labs and 15 labs that are part of 
the country’s TB diagnostics network.Making STRIDES against drug-resistant TB in high-burden countriesEvaluating AMR-related lab capabilitiesScaling technologies to combat AMR
Innovation               Innovation               Efficiency                Empowerment       
Access                     Access                     45The year 2019 marked the 12th year of the company’s 
collaboration with PEPFAR and the CDC on the Labs for Life 
program, which seeks to strengthen laboratory systems and 
upgrade clinical practices in phlebotomy, infusion 
and injection.
Through this program, BD has deployed more than 300 
associates, called BD Global Health Fellows, for short-term, 
in-country assignments, to strengthen and support 38 
laboratories in India, Kenya, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Uganda and 
Haiti. In some participating laboratories, lab assessment 
scores have improved by as much as 150% and average 
turnaround time for select diagnostic tests have been  
reduced by as much as 75%.BD, PEPFAR and CDC public-private partnerships to strengthen 
lab effectiveness
Infusion-related infections pose a significant threat to 
healthcare workers and patients. China has one of the highest 
rates of infusion per person in the world, and treatment via 
intravenous therapy is commonplace. However, in Western 
China, nearly 42% of procedures are still conducted using a steel 
needle rather than the best practice IV catheter.22 Improper use 
of steel needles for IV therapy can lead to increased pain and 
higher rates of health complications.
To address this challenge, BD signed a multiyear agreement in 
FY 2018 with long-term partner, Project HOPE, to reduce 
infusion-related infections among healthcare workers and 
patients in four provinces in Western China. 
In FY 2019, BD and Project HOPE recruited and trained 25 
master trainers to conduct 8 training workshops in 4 provinces, 
training a total of 241 nurses and 36 nursing students.  
To increase the number of healthcare workers reached, the 
trained nurses then conducted cascade training for a total of 
1,555 nurses, with the goal of reaching 90% of the target units 
(outpatient, surgery, obstetrics and ICU) at 12 hospitals. 
Educational materials were also developed and distributed  
to participating hospitals.
Infection prevention in China
Reference
22 Zhang M, Li WP, Cheng WP, et al. Investigation and analysis of the medical practices of the standardized nursing practices for 
intravenous therapy in western region hospitals in China. Chinese Nurs Manager.  2018;18(5): 623-635.
Innovation               Efficiency                Empowerment       Access                     45 46More than 20% of needlestick injuries in Kenya occur from 
starting IVs or connecting a syringe into an IV line. To address 
these patient safety risks, BD signed a memorandum of 
understanding with the CDC and PEPFAR in FY 2018 to create 
an infection prevention partnership, called KINGA (the Kenya 
Infection Prevention Global Collaboration for Advancement). 
In FY 2019, as part of this partnership, BD Global Health Fellows 
conducted baseline observational and quality improvement 
assessments to document key gaps in infusion practices. During 
this time, nearly 1,000 unique catheters and their associated 
procedures were observed.
BD Global Health Fellows then developed a training program, 
tailored to address the gaps in infusion practice that were 
identified during the assessments. BD Global Health Fellows will 
be deployed for short-term assignments in FY 2020 to 
implement this training, train others to deliver it and provide 
mentorship in hospitals across Kenya.
In FY 2019, BD business leaders joined together in The Hague, 
Netherlands with more than 50 global health thought leaders 
and key partners from international agencies, academia, 
governments and other private sectors for a multiday BD Global 
Health Summit. Attendees engaged in valuable dialogue about 
the current priorities and challenges in healthcare delivery in the 
developing and developed world, and identified opportunities 
through which BD and its partners can make a greater impact. BD global health experts also participated in several key 
international events to raise awareness of the importance of 
public-private partnerships in addressing global health 
challenges, including:
• The Public-Private Partnership Forum of the National 
Academies in Washington DC
• The Union Conference on Lung Health in Hyderabad, India
• The International Conference on AIDS and Sexually 
Transmitted Infections in Africa
Driving a global conversation about…safety 
BD partnered with Devex International Development to launch a 
dedicated digital platform called “ Safety First ,” to drive a global 
conversation about healthcare worker and patient safety. The 
integrated series of online content features a series of portraits of 
individuals who have experienced needlestick injuries and have 
become advocates for healthcare provider and patient safety. 
Driving a global conversation about…drug-resistant TB 
BD and USAID also partnered with an award-winning 
documentary filmmaker in India to launch “ TB Talk, Unmasked ,” 
a platform through which policymakers, TB survivors and treating 
physicians can share their unique stories and perspectives. 
Infection prevention in Kenya
Driving global conversations about key global health issues
BD Global Health Summit "I am extremely proud that BD has taken the 
initiative to support this program. I did not 
realize the magnitude of impact we make on 
patient care in these developing countries until 
this trip. We help bridge the gap in knowledge 
of lab personnel and overall lab system quality 
that translates into an improved patient 
experience—that is reliable test results and 
patient satisfaction. I have not worked for or 
known any other company that goes to this 
extent to help without any hidden agendas." 
 —Kokeb Tefera, Senior Program Manager, who served 
as a BD Global Health Fellow through the Labs for Life 
program in Ethiopia in June 2019
Innovation               Innovation               Efficiency                Empowerment       
Access                     Access                     46 47BD is committed to bringing the world’s leading products, 
technologies and manufacturing processes to China. In FY 2019 
BD continued to expand our manufacturing array in our Suzhou 
plants by introducing two new manufacturing lines, BD Hypak ™ 
Pre-Fillable Syringes and BD OptiBuild ™ Reagents. These new 
manufacturing capabilities have employed an additional 40 
associates, and will employ another 150 associates after all the 
BD Hypak ™ Pre-Fillable Syringe lines are completed. 
In 2016, BD initiated work to equip one of our plants in Suzhou, 
China with a BD Hypak ™ Pre-Fillable Syringes production line.  
This work included a multiphased concept to design process for 
clean rooms, utility systems and laboratories. BD invested  
$25 million in Phase I of this installation project that will be 
ready for launch production in FY 2020, and the other two 
subsequent phases, several times larger than one, will be 
completed in the next few years. As a world leader in prefillable 
injection technology, BD will accelerate the development and 
transformation of drug delivery systems in China through 
this project.
BD has always attached great importance to providing a total 
solution, combining flow cytometry and reagents for scientific 
researchers. BD OptiBuild ™ Custom Reagents offer more 
fluorochrome options with the antibodies the researchers need. Whether they want to minimize compensation or add new 
markers to complex experiments, BD OptiBuild ™ Custom 
Reagents provide flexibility to evaluate new colors and simplify 
panel design. The 2019 completion of a new production line of 
BD OptiBuild ™ Custom Reagents in our BD factory located in 
Suzhou, China can significantly shorten the delivery cycle and 
deliver products from the factory to the customer in as little as 4 
days, providing more options for scientific research and greatly 
improving research efficiency which will directly benefit 
scientists in China and Pan-Asia.BD expands manufacturing site in China
In June of 2019, BD opened a technology campus in Bangalore, 
India (BDTCI). BDTCI is positioned as an extension of global 
R&D to support sustaining engineering initially, with a long-term 
vision to own the product life cycle management for BD products. 
As BDTCI becomes fluent with the life cycle management, the 
center will be positioned to drive design  and innovation for global products and global markets.  
BD has further plans to expand this site to provide  
cross-functional support to support this work, as well as to 
provide full capabilities to support product testing. Currently 
there are 80 associates at BDTCI, with a planned addition of 
another 200 associates in the next 2 years.BD Technology Campus in India
2020 goal
Further expand  BD manufacturing, product array and employment in emerging countries
Innovation               Innovation               Efficiency                Empowerment       
Access                     Access                     48Introduction
We understand that the health of the planet is linked to the health of people, and reducing our impact 
on the environment supports our Purpose of advancing the world of health™. With continuing pressure 
on natural resources and the predicted impacts of climate change, it is imperative that we continue to 
increase the resilience of our operations and explore opportunities for environmental improvements 
across our value chain. By partnering more closely with suppliers, customers and peers, we can address 
some of the world’s most pressing environmental issues more broadly than we could on our own.Efficiency
Environmentally sound products 
and resilient operations
2020 goal
Reduce  GHG emissions and increase climate resilience throughout operations and value chain
Despite an increase in revenues, absolute Scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions have been reduced by 48% 
from our baseline year of FY 2008. 
After normalization, we have reduced emissions  
by 67% from our baseline year. Facilities continue to identify 
carbon reduction opportunities on-site by utilizing best available 
technology where feasible. We also continued our commitment 
to increasing our use of on-site generation and renewable energy 
sources, when feasible. We provided limited reporting of Scope 3 emissions in previous 
years, and in FY 2019 we continued to work with external 
partners to establish baseline Scope 3 emissions across all 
relevant categories. Our largest sources of Scope 3 emissions are 
estimated to be from purchased of goods, distribution and the 
use and disposal of products. Therefore, these sources represent 
the largest areas for opportunity and will be subject of our focus 
in our future sustainability strategy.GHG emissionsIn FY 2019, BD continued to make progress toward our 2020 
efficiency goals. This year we have integrated Bard operations 
into our environmental performance reporting process. The data 
reported here is inclusive of the former-Bard operations. The addition of Bard operations into our portfolio has impacted 
performance to our 2020 goals (set prior to the acquisition).  
While we have achieved our targets for Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas (GHG) reduction and water reduction, we have more work to 
do in reducing waste and air emissions.Status of performance against 2020 goals
Further information about our climate change strategy and programs to reduce GHG emissions can be found in our separate Climate 
Change Management report, available August 2020 on our website , as well as in our responses to the CDP  (formerly the Carbon 
Disclosure Project). BD has reported to the CDP since its inception in 2003.Click here to view the GHG data tables .All data relating to our performance can be found at the end 
of this section in the  Efficiency data tables section .
GRI disclosure: 201-2Innovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                49Our energy consumption decreased in absolute 
terms and normalized terms for FY 19. We have 
focused on identifying opportunities by assessing 
and incorporating new available technology to 
further reduce energy consumption. 
While the amount of green energy increased in FY 2019, the 
overall percentage of power from renewable sources fell slightly. 
This was due to budget constraints caused by the COVID-19 
pandemic that limited the number of supplemental renewable 
energy credits that we could purchase. However, we remain 
committed to renewable energy and expect to continue progress 
set in previous years.
Over the course of FY 2019, BD identified over 204 energy 
reduction projects that will amount to over $5 million in energy 
savings, once completed. The Utilities Center of Excellence 
worked closely with sites around the world to identify key projects that will reduce energy usage and improve efficiency of 
plant operations. Many of these projects will be completed in the 
coming years, but work has already begun with some projects 
being completed in 2019. Those projects completed saw savings 
of $1.5 million in FY 2019—approximately 15 million kWh. 
Projects include the replacement of existing lighting with LED 
lighting; recommissioning of an ice plant; combined heat and 
power projects, installation of solar panel projects and various 
equipment upgrades.Energy2020 goal
Minimize  our environmental footprint and conserve natural resources
In FY 2019, we continued to invest in on-site power generation and identify opportunities to reduce our environmental footprint 
across all sites.
The second phase of the on-site solar installation for the BD 
manufacturing plant in Canaan, CT was completed. The system 
was expanded from a 2,655-kilowatt system with 6,400 ground and roof mounted panels to a 3,350-kilowatt system with 7,650 
ground and roof mounted panels. Solar
The combined heat and power (CHP) generation continues to be 
utilized at BD sites. The latest CHP installation was completed in 
Drogheda, Ireland where it will provide 75% of the site’s electrical 
usage. On-site generation increases site’s resilience and is a more efficient use of energy, therefore reducing GHG emissions. 
Solutions such as combined heat and power continue to be 
assessed to achieve our sustainability goals and build energy 
resilience into our sites.Combined heat and powerClick here to view the Energy data tables .Innovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                50Water consumption decreased slightly in FY 2019 as a result of 
continued water conservation efforts and we exceeded our 
target of 40% reduction of water use (normalized by COPS). We 
will continue to identify and implement viable water reduction projects. Of the amount of water consumed, the percentage of 
wastewater discharge also increased reflecting efforts to 
improve system efficiencies. Water useWater is essential to human life, the environment 
and the planet. BD recognizes the importance of 
water in our manufacturing processes, for our 
products, our suppliers, in our environment, and to 
our associates and their communities. Maintaining a clean and 
ample supply of water is imperative both to the future of our 
company, supply chain and to the future of the communities 
where we live, work and do business.
Water quality and quantity is fundamental to ensure that 
highest healthcare product safety standards are met. A key focus 
is the efficient use of water, especially as some of our company’s 
products contain purified water. Freshwater is used in 
manufacturing, sanitation, sterilization, processing and cooling 
for our direct operations. Indirect water is used in the 
manufacturing and/or processing of many raw materials used in 
our products, such as resins, steel, packaging and electrical 
components. 
Recycled and brackish water is used in ancillary operations, such 
as cooling towers, because it does not meet quality standards for 
most other uses. 
Operating in accordance with local regulations that protect 
people and the environment, approximately 97% of water used 
at our facilities comes from, and is discharged to, third-party 
sources (such as local municipal water sources). We collect 
water-related data for total withdrawals from our sites worldwide 
through an online system. This data is monitored and reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. 
We are committed to responsible and sustainable use of water 
and strive to include water sustainability considerations in 
business decisions. We seek to achieve efficient use of water 
resources at our operational locations by investing in and using 
new technologies when feasible and implementing water conservation and water management practices. Our facilities 
conduct audits that include water usage, particularly in areas of 
concern for water quality and quantity. 
Water risks are considered part of business continuity planning 
and are assessed as part of an enterprise risk management 
framework on an annual basis, using established water risk tools 
to evaluate overall water stress areas. 
Water-related issues (such as resilience from water scarcity and 
internal water efficiencies) are integrated into our long-term 
business objectives. We see opportunities to continue to improve 
operational efficiencies. These are strategic opportunities that 
will contribute to long-term resiliency and operational 
cost savings. 
Further information about our water management strategy and 
programs can be found in our responses to the CDP  (formerly 
the Carbon Disclosure Project). BD has reported to the CDP since 
its inception in 2003.
Clean water plays a role in global health. Damaged ecosystems 
affect the quantity and quality of water available for human 
consumption. Extreme weather events are impacting water 
availability and quality.
Today, 2.1 billion people live without safe drinking water at 
home, which can affect their health, education and livelihoods.23 
Children under-five are on average more than 20 times more 
likely to die from illnesses linked to unsafe water and bad 
sanitation, than from conflict.24
BD has partnered with Charity: Water and Planet Water in 
previous years to provide clean drinking to communities around 
the world. You can read more about our work with Planet Water 
in 2019 in the Empowerment  section of this report.Water managementWater
References
23 World Health Organization. 2.1 billion people lack safe drinking water at home, more than twice as many lack safe sanitation. https://www.who.int/news-room/detail/12-07-2017-2-1-billion-
people-lack-safe-drinking-water-at-home-more-than-twice-as-many-lack-safe-sanitation. Published July 12, 2017. Accessed May 8, 2020. 
24 UN News. More children killed by unsafe water, than bullets, says UNICEF chief. https://news.un.org/en/story/2019/03/1035171. March 21, 2019. Accessed May 8, 2020. Click here to view the Water data table .Innovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                51While we continue to assess and implement waste reduction 
projects, our performance in this area indicates there is 
opportunity for improvement. Disposal methods have remained 
largely unchanged from previous years, and we continue to face challenges with recycling waste streams. However, hazardous 
waste generation saw a decrease due to operational 
improvements.Waste performanceEffective waste prevention and management 
practices are critical for protecting human health 
and the environment. BD acknowledges the 
importance of responsible end disposal 
management for the various types of waste generated from our 
operations. Recognizing the current and future potential 
liabilities associated with waste disposal is necessary to 
safeguard our company, communities and planet. We follow the waste management hierarchy for waste 
generated. Source reduction and waste minimization practices 
are utilized when feasible. End disposal site risk is evaluated by 
using audits, vendor management and risk assessment tools. 
We are committed to reducing nonhazardous and hazardous 
waste generated. Waste generation is tracked through an online 
system with the data collected being reviewed and monitored on 
an ongoing basis. We partner with disposal vendors to evaluate 
areas for waste reduction.Waste managementWaste 
While our facilities continued to make absolute 
reductions in VOC and HAP emissions through 
process improvement projects and installation  
of emission control equipment, data 
demonstrates areas for opportunity remain.We continue to make progress on the reduction of ozone-depleting 
substances, which are used at several of our legacy BD facilities. 
Conversion plans to eliminate the use of HCFC141b remain in 
progress and are expected to be completed as scheduled.Air emissionsClick here to view the  Waste data tables .
Click here to view the Air emissions data tables .
Our EtO sterilization facilities in Covington and Madison, 
Georgia (U.S.) are among the first in the industry to install dry 
bed scrubber systems, a new innovative emission control 
system designed to reduce fugitive (i.e., trace) emissions that 
occur from product off-gassing after the sterilization process is 
complete. Both facilities are already equipped with 
regenerative thermal oxidizers (RTOs), the best available 
emission control technology, to destroy EtO emitted from the sterilization process. The combination of the new dry bed 
scrubber systems to control fugitive emissions and the existing 
RTOs to control point source emissions makes the Covington 
and Madison facilities two of the most sophisticated EtO 
sterilization facilities in the world. At our Covington facility, for 
example, these new upgrades have reduced EtO emissions at 
the facility by an additional 94%.Reducing EtO emissions
For more information about our EtO facilities in Georgia, please 
visit the EtO safety page on our website .Innovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                52Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) management
We set expectations of EHS management via three 
key documents:
• Our EHS policy
• Our Code of Conduct
• Our Expectation for Suppliers
At the corporate level, BD has an EHS team, led by the VP of 
EHS&S; the VP EHS&S reports to the company’s executive VP 
Integrated Supply Chain (EVP ISC). Reporting to the VP EHS&S 
are the following individuals with responsibility for EHS activities.
• Director, EHS Governance & Compliance. This individual is 
responsible for governance and compliance activities, 
including the company’s internal EHS audit program, EHS 
standards and training programs and communicating EHS 
matters to relevant stakeholders throughout the organization. This individual also oversees the Global EHS Advisory Council 
(see the Empowerment  section for further information).
• Director, Sustainability. In addition to stakeholder 
engagement and development of the company’s 
sustainability strategy, this individual is responsible for the 
development of the company’s water stewardship and waste 
management programs; and management of the company’s 
EHS information management systems.
The VP EHS&S engages directly with the executive leadership 
team and provides a report on EHS activities to the Board on an 
annual basis. The Corporate Governance and Nominating 
Committee oversees matters that involve the company’s image, 
reputation and our standing as a responsible corporate citizen; 
this includes EHS matters.
Training
At a corporate level, we provide various training to our associates, 
including new hire orientation to EHS professionals; training on 
new or revised corporate EHS standards, internal EHS auditor 
training and ongoing training for our EHS management of 
information systems. We use a variety of training mediums, 
including classroom training, webinars and on-demand 
compliance training via our online training system. In 2020, we  are enhancing governance structures around our training 
programs to consider our expanded operations following the 
acquisition of Bard.
Individual sites are responsible for identifying site-specific EHS 
training needs and implementing training programs on a variety 
of EHS topics, taking into consideration the risks that are present 
and any local regulatory requirements. 
EHS Management Information Systems
Internal Audits
We have a global internal audit program covering all BD 
locations. Audits are typically carried out by a third party and are 
occasionally supported by associates from the corporate EHS 
team. Frequency of audits are on a risk basis, determined by 
factors such as type, size and scale of operations and previous  audit findings. Audit reports from each audit are provided to site 
management, operational leaders, EVP ISC and the CEO. All 
corrective actions are tracked to closure, with a follow-up audit 
carried out approximately 12 months later.We use global EHS Management Information Systems,  
provided by third-party vendors, to collect and manage  
EHS information, including:• EHS incident reporting (including near misses) and corrective 
action tracking
• EHS performance metric reporting and tracking
• Safety data sheet management
EHS Management Systems
To ensure continuous improvement of environmental 
performance at a facility level, BD is implementing ISO 
14001-certified environmental management systems at our 
manufacturing sites around the world. Currently, 46 BD sites 
have ISO 14001-certified environmental management systems; 
most of these sites are manufacturing locations, but also 
includes HQ offices and some sales offices in Europe. Around two-thirds of these certified locations are part of a group 
certificate, where we have established standardized procedures 
and methods for program implementation. This standardized 
approach allows sites to work together in a collaborative way 
with extensive sharing and interaction to enhance program 
effectiveness. For example, all corrective actions are logged and 
shared with all sites in the respective group certificates to 
facilitate learning from each other’s experience and to take 
proactive actions to prevent similar issues happening at other Innovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                532020 goal
Establish  supplier responsibility evaluation methodology
Supplier risk management is a major focus area for BD.  
The overarching strategy of the risk program is to enable 
processes and procedures that reduce or eliminate the likelihood 
and minimize the impact of a supplier event that could affect 
the company’s continuity of supply. We have developed a robust 
assessment process to identify our ”critical to healthcare” 
products, which has allowed us to prioritize preventative risk 
management best practices for not only our significant financial 
impacting products but also those critical to the healthcare 
market. With a top-down directive on risk management, we are 
implementing an enhanced risk model with a consistent 
framework across all of our business units to assess, identify, prioritize, mitigate and monitor top risks. The program takes a 
quantifiable approach to assess multiple risk factors, including 
direct supplier-driven risks, such as operational and financial risk, 
as well as indirect or market-driven risks, such as natural 
disasters and geopolitical risks. Additionally, we have formed a  
cross-functional crisis management team to proactively 
monitor and respond to events around the world that may 
impact our supply chain. The program will continue to evolve  
as we leverage sophisticated technologies to aid us in our 
journey to resiliency.sites. Furthermore, every EMS-certified site sets environmental 
improvement objectives on an annual basis and these are 
reviewed for progress quarterly.
Our plan is to continue ISO 14001 certification of remaining BD 
manufacturing plants over the coming years.
The ISO 50001 energy management standard provides a 
framework of requirements to measure and use data for better 
understanding of energy use, set objectives for energy use 
reduction and continually improve energy management. Many 
BD facilities have a strong focus on energy management and 
reduction and are pursuing many aspects of a responsible 
energy management program. We currently have four facilities 
in Spain, Hungary and Germany that have implemented energy 
management systems which are certified to ISO 50001.
All BD manufacturing locations have strong focus on 
Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) management for injury reduction and prevention. Significant OHS risks associated with 
our activities are identified and reviewed for elimination and/or 
control to minimize their potential effects on our employees. The 
most accepted OHS management system in the past has been 
the OHSAS-18001 standard and two BD sites in Spain and China 
are certified in this standard. OHSAS-18001 standard is currently 
being replaced by ISO-45001 and both of our sites will convert to 
this new standard before the deadline of March 2021. Although 
our other sites are currently not formally certified in any OHS 
standard, their site safety programs follow many of the elements 
included in the OHSAS-18001/ISO-45001 standards.
For additional details on work carried out in FY 2019 related to 
associate safety, please see our goal around achieving best-in-
class associate safety performance in the Empowerment  
section of this report.
GRI disclosures: 403-1, 403-5Innovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                54Supplier Diversity Program: percent of spend by designation
50%
0%40%
30%
20%
10%
FY 2013 FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 2015 FY 2014Total div erse spend
Disability owne d
Veteran owne d
Woman owne dMinority/W oman owne d
Minority owne dDiversity per cent of eligible spend by designations tr acke dSupplier diversity encompasses more than simply tracking 
spending or “doing the right thing”—it supports our business 
objectives. Being committed to supplier diversity entails 
developing and implementing strategies that ensure our supply 
base aligns with the diverse customers and communities we 
serve, as well as the diverse markets we seek.
Further details on our Supplier Diversity Program can be found 
on our website . 
While we remain committed to increasing the number of small 
and diverse-owned businesses in our supply chain, our supplier 
diversity performance was negatively impacted in FY 2019 due 
to a number of factors. 
Firstly, total reported procurement spend increased due to the 
inclusion of Bard. However, as Bard supplier diversity data was not aligned with legacy BD data, we have been unable to include 
Bard data in our FY 2019 performance data.
Secondly, as part of efforts to reduce overall procurement spend, 
work continued in FY 2019 to implement a managed service 
provider strategy. This has reduced the number of small and 
diverse-owned businesses who are our tier 1 suppliers. At this 
time, we are only able to capture spend with our tier 1 suppliers 
and this is reflected in the data presented.
We are in the process of revising our data tracking and 
management systems. This will allow us to capture, track and 
report spend with small and diverse-owned businesses who are 
tier 2 suppliers, via our managed service providers. We will also 
close remaining gaps in tracking and reporting supplier diversity 
spend from legacy Bard.Supplier Diversity ProgramInnovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                55BD actively engages in dialogue with our customers and 
advocacy groups to understand their position on the use of safer 
chemicals for consideration in our work to eliminate priority 
MOC. This engagement includes our continued response to the 
Chemical Footprint Project. The mission of the Chemical 
Footprint Project  is to transform global chemical use by measuring and disclosing data on business progress to safer 
chemicals. It provides a tool for benchmarking companies as 
they select safer alternatives and reduce their use of chemicals 
of high concern. As in previous years, we have chosen to make 
our response public.Chemical Footprint Project2020 goal
Reduce  priority materials of concern in specified product categories
As part of the BD portfolio of IV products, we introduced a 
variety of IV solutions in different sizes for intravenous 
administration. These products also help move forward our 
broader goal of reducing priority materials of concern in 
specified product categories. The free flex® bag * is a multilayer 
polyolefin film that is non-PVC and non-DEHP. The bag is not 
made with natural rubber latex. The container closures are also 
not made with natural rubber latex and are non-PVC 
and non-DEHP. 
These IV solution products include various sizes of 0.9% sodium 
chloride injection, Lactated Ringer’s injection, 5% dextrose 
injection and 0.45% sodium chloride injection, as listed on 
our website .BD® IV Fluids
*free flex® is a registered trademark of Fresenius Kabi. Manufactured by Fresenius Kabi.
BD is working to reduce priority materials  
of concern * in each of the following 
product categories:
Devices:   
PVC and phthalates
Instruments:   
Phthalates, brominated flame retardants (BFRs)  
and heavy metals
Packaging:
PVC and expanded polystyrene
*Intentionally addedInnovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                56BD continues to focus efforts on improving the life cycle impacts 
of our products. 
In 2019, we continued our engagement with the Healthcare 
Plastics Recycling Council (HPRC) both in the United States and the European Union, and the Sustainable Healthcare Coalition 
(SHC) in Europe. The activities we undertake as part of our 
engagement with these entities support, among other projects, 
our efforts to limit and minimize waste produced during the life 
cycle of our products.
Product takeback2020 goal
Improve  life cycle impacts of current and future products
GRI disclosure: 301.3  
SASB disclosure: HC-MS-410a.2Where required by law, we participate in compliance schemes to 
ensure responsible collection, management and disposal 
(including recycling) of packaging, batteries and waste electrical 
and electronic equipment. 
For details regarding product donation, please refer to the 
Empowerment  section of this report.
As noted in our FY 2018 Sustainability Report, we have 
established a process at our facility in San Diego to manage the 
end-of-life disposal of products from the BD Pyxis ™ Portfolio, by 
recovering materials and components for refurbishment 
or recycling. In FY 2019, 19,213 units were processed through our facility, 
representing 2,750 metric tonnes of materials that were either 
refurbished, reused or recycled.
We will continue to explore opportunities to improve the end-of-
life disposal options for products through programs such as this. 
Where product take-back is not appropriate or viable, we will look 
to alternatives—such cross-industry partnerships found in 
HPRC—to make progress on our goal of improving the life cycle 
impacts of our products.
Innovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                57FY 2019 efficiency targets—
performance data tables
For most performance indicators, we have included data for legacy Bard back to our baseline year of FY 2008; however, in a few 
instances, no historical data was available. This is noted where applicable.
We have strengthened our data collection processes by reviewing our reporting threshold. This has increased the number of facilities 
included in our reporting boundary. Therefore, data has been restated.
To allow for year-on-year comparability and transparency, we are reporting performance data separately for both legacy BD and 
Bard organizations across all performance indicators, in addition to combined performance data. Notes on data
Efficiency data tables
Solar panels installed at Canaan, CT site. A total of 2.9 mega-watts are generated from solar panels at this site. Innovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                58
Efficiency data tablesGHG emissions—Scope 1 and 2
GRI disclosures: 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Total GHG emissions
Scope 1 absolute (metric tonnes 
CO2-e), legacy Bard11,345 11,345 11,345 11,317 14,932 16,869 20,727 17,486 16,434 23,856 36,781 16,357
Scope 1 normalized (metric tonnes 
CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy Bard12 12 11 10 13 14 17 13 12 17 36 12
Scope 1 absolute (metric tonnes 
CO2-e), legacy BD87,852 88,809 91,327 85,931 84,125 80,251 77,505 76,850 74,989 88,730 100,402 101,875
Scope 1 normalized (metric tonnes 
CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy BD18 19 18 16 15 14 13 14 12 14 13 13
Scope 1 absolute (metric tonnes 
CO2-e), combined99,197 100,154 102,672 97,249 99,057 97,120 98,232 94,336 91,424 112,585 137,183 118,232
Scope 1 normalized (metric tonnes 
CO2-e per $M COPS), combined17 18 17 15 15 14 13 14 12 15 16 13
Scope 2 absolute (metric tonnes 
CO2-e), legacy Bard65,713 65,800 62,976 63,338 62,380 63,281 68,212 75,016 73,554 78,335 70,006 65,786
Scope 2 normalized (metric tonnes 
CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy Bard70 70 62 59 56 54 55 58 55 54 69 48
Scope 2 absolute (metric tonnes 
CO2-e), legacy BD530,133 511,114 430,824 377,152 310,580 249,722 266,936 226,888 169,073 164,483 145,002 175,552
Scope 2 normalized (metric tonnes 
CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy BD112 108 84 71 56 44 44 41 26 27 19 23
Scope 2 absolute (metric tonnes 
CO2-e), combined595,846 576,914 493,800 440,490 372,959 313,003 335,148 301,904 242,627 242,818 215,007 241,338
Scope 2 normalized (metric tonnes 
CO2-e per $M COPS), combined105 101 81 69 56 46 46 44 31 32 25 27
Total absolute (metric tonnes CO2-e), 
legacy Bard77,058 77,145 74,320 74,656 77,312 80,150 88,939 92,502 89,989 102,190 106,787 82,143
Total normalized (metric tonnes 
CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy Bard83 82 73 69 69 68 71 71 67 71 105 59
% reduction from baseline -28%
Total absolute (metric tonnes CO2-e), 
legacy BD617,985 599,923 522,151 463,083 394,705 329,973 344,441 303,738 244,062 253,213 245,404 277,427
Total normalized (metric tonnes 
CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy BD130 127 102 87 71 58 57 54 38 41 32 36
% reduction from baseline -72%
Total absolute (metric tonnes CO2-e), 
combined695,043 677,068 596,472 537,739 472,017 410,123 433,380 396,240 334,051 355,403 352,191 359,570
Total normalized (metric tonnes 
CO2-e per $M COPS), combined122 119 97 84 71 60 59 58 43 47 40 40
 2020 goal: Reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 50% (normalized to COPS).  Current status: reduced by 67% TARGET ACHIEVED  
Data represents Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect from electricity) energy sources.  
BD uses emission factors that are temporally, geographically and technologically accurate for each site and source within its operational boundary as specified by the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol. This includes updating electric power emission factors to reflect changes in the 
grid mix for areas in which BD operates. In general, historical emission factors remain consistent with the publication that was most recent at the time of original reporting.2020 goal
Reduce  GHG emissions and increase climate resilience throughout operations and value chain
 Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard combinedInnovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                59
Efficiency data tablesGHG emissions—Scope 3
Measurement and UOM  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
GHG (absolute) (metric tonnes Co2-e)
Purchased goods and services  966,282 1,069,505 1,065,132 1,147,5521
Capital goods  42,728 37,691 39,602 21,5162
Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2)3 106,340  103,995  106,451  106,360 101,856 105,617 111,946 101,392 
Upstream transportation and distribution  72,640 125,904 280,636 286,0511
Waste generated in operations1 15,266  15,302  13,789  13,071 15,465 15,380 19,239 19,359 
Business travel4 35,273  38,230  41,171  68,259 107,049 95,612 117,116 147,795 
Employee commuting  1,743  9,157  13,061  4,888 102,232 73,195 83,829 138,0101
Upstream leased assets  27,094 47,011 32,299 1,3595
Downstream transportation and distribution Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6
Processing of sold products Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6
Use of sold products 263,924 298,638 326,682 415,8821
End-of-life treatment of sold products 87,558 97,082 191,821 192,4407
Downstream leased assets Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant61,5245
Franchises Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6
Investments Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6
2020 goal: Establish Scope 3 GHG emission baselines for categories applicable to BD.  Current status: We provided limited reporting of Scope 3 emissions in previous years, and in FY 2019 we continued to work with external partners to 
establish baseline Scope 3 emissions across all categories. This information will be used to inform future strategy.
2020 goal: Initiate climate resilience planning for BD facilities.  Current status: As the devastating hurricanes across the U.S. in 2017 demonstrated, resilience planning for extreme weather events is essential to ensure operations are 
restored as quickly as possible. Work has been carried to deepen our understanding of potential risks to our supply chain and operations, to ensure potential impacts are mitigated or reduced. Further work was carried out in FY 2019 to 
understand risks and opportunities associated with climate change and will be reported on in future reports.
1 Includes CR Bard.  
2 Includes CR Bard. Reduction is driven by change in sector classification, which have lower capital goods emission intensities.  
3 Data for all years reported has been recalculated to include legacy CR Bard. Data for all years also now includes emissions related to transmission and distribution losses and well to tank emissions from all energy sources, not just electric power. (In prior years, we disclosed emissions 
related to transmission and distribution losses from electric power only.)  
4 FY 2019 includes CR Bard. FY 2016 and FY 2017 have been restated due to error in earlier calculations.
5 Includes CR Bard. Significant decrease due to more accurate data used in calculations.
6 Relevance based on 1% threshold relative to total Scope 3 emissions inventory. Determined this category to be not relevant to the company’s business activities and did not estimate the associated GHG emissions.
7 Emissions are for a subset of our portfolio only.
GRI disclosure: 305-3Innovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                60
Efficiency data tablesEnergy
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Total energy consumption
Scope 1 absolute (GJ), legacy Bard 219,899 219,899 219,899 219,899 270,744 302,468 381,073 332,693 316,465 413,807 620,237 311,520
Scope 1 normalized (GJ per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard236 232 217 204 242 258 305 256 236 287 610 225
Scope 1 absolute (GJ), legacy BD 1,640,772 1,663,840 1,707,033 1,615,278 1,568,897 1,442,703 1,459,149 1,447,472 1,410,399 1,695,223 1,922,421 1,953,835
Scope 1 normalized (GJ per $M 
COPS), legacy BD345 351 334 303 284 256 240 259 217 277 250 256
Scope 1 absolute (GJ), combined 1,860,671 1,883,740 1,926,933 1,835,178 1,839,641 1,745,171 1,840,221 1,780,165 1,726,864 2,109,030 2,542,658 2,265,355
Scope 1 normalized (GJ per $M 
COPS), combined327 331 315 286 277 256 251 258 220 279 292 252
Scope 2 absolute (GJ), legacy Bard 449,174 450,250 450,346 450,346 463,907 475,639 495,386 560,506 575,758 623,298 612,855 587,901
Scope 2 normalized (GJ per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard482 476 445 417 414 406 396 431 429 432 603 425
Scope 2 absolute (GJ), legacy BD 3,654,412 3,651,153 3,773,760 3,740,213 3,689,441 3,605,946 3,660,163 3,620,781 3,647,823 3,597,540 3,725,284 3,782,484
Scope 2 normalized (GJ per $M 
COPS), legacy BD769 770 738 702 668 639 602 648 562 587 484 497
Scope 2 absolute (GJ), combined 4,103,586 4,101,402 4,224,106 4,190,559 4,153,349 4,081,585 4,155,548 4,181,287 4,223,582 4,220,837 4,338,138 4,370,385
Scope 2 normalized (GJ per $M 
COPS), combined722 721 690 654 625 599 567 607 539 558 498 485
Total absolute (GJ), legacy Bard 669,073 670,149 670,245 670,245 734,651 778,107 876,458 893,199 892,223 1,037,105 1,233,092 899,421
Total normalized (GJ per $M COPS), 
legacy Bard718 708 663 621 656 664 701 687 664 719 1,214 650
% reduction from baseline 9%
Total absolute (GJ), legacy BD 5,295,183 5,314,993 5,480,794 5,355,491 5,258,338 5,048,649 5,119,311 5,068,253 5,058,223 5,292,763 5,647,705 5,736,319
Total normalized (GJ per $M COPS), 
legacy BD1,114 1,121 1,072 1,005 952 895 842 907 779 864 734 753
% reduction from baseline 32%
Total absolute (GJ), combined 5,964,257 5,985,142 6,151,039 6,025,737 5,992,990 5,826,756 5,995,770 5,961,452 5,950,446 6,329,868 6,880,797 6,635,740
Total normalized (GJ per $M COPS), 
combined1,049 1,053 1,004 941 902 855 818 866 759 836 790 737
2020 goal: Reduce energy consumption by 40% (normalized by COPS).  Current status: reduced by 30%
Data represents Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect from electricity) energy sources.
GRI disclosures: 302-1, 302-3, 302-42020 goal
Minimize  our environmental footprint and conserve natural resources
 Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard combinedInnovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                61
Efficiency data tablesEnergy
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Renewable energy (RECs, Green Power)—combined
Electric power 4,053,831 4,062,147 4,186,898 4,153,453 4,114,317 4,037,109 4,109,512 4,136,047 4,178,426 4,214,796 4,294,092 4,313,424
Green energy 104,745 161,475 181,361 264,315 203,857 172,132 100,695 98,970 249,444 449,119 347,022 577,860
Renewable Energy Credit (REC) 18,547 133,415 570,815 670,714 1,012,696 1,318,215 1,326,356 1,492,190 1,861,873 2,020,847 1,920,501 1,463,321
Total Greenpower 123,293 294,890 752,176 935,030 1,216,554 1,490,347 1,427,051 1,591,160 2,111,316 2,469,966 2,267,524 2,041,181
As part of electric power 
consumption:
% from RECs 0.5% 3% 14% 16% 25% 33% 32% 36% 45% 48% 45% 34%
% from green energy 3% 4% 4% 6% 5% 4% 2% 2% 6% 11% 8% 13%
% of all green power 3% 7% 18% 23% 30% 37% 35% 38% 51% 59% 53% 47%
As part of total energy:
% from RECs: 0.3% 2% 9% 11% 17% 23% 22% 25% 31% 32% 28% 22%
% of all green energy 2% 5% 12% 16% 20% 26% 24% 27% 35% 39% 33% 31%
2020 goal:  Increase renewable energy consumption by 50% of total energy (absolute). Current status:  increased to 31%
GRI disclosure: 302-1
Innovation               Innovation               
Access                     Access                     
Empowerment       Empowerment       
Efficiency                Efficiency                62
Efficiency data tablesWater
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Water consumption
Absolute (cubic meters), legacy Bard 704,997 939,996 939,996 939,996 948,089 915,978 917,275 924,565 933,623 910,725 1,262,707 1,122,258
Normalized (cubic meters per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard756 993 929 871 847 782 734 711 695 631 1243 811
% discharge, legacy Bard -7%
Absolute (cubic meters), legacy BD 5,525,385 5,032,947 4,539,546 4,536,329 4,524,766 4,590,243 4,869,887 5,043,004 4,967,181 4,433,752 4,696,157 4,696,855
Normalized (cubic meters per $M 
COPS), legacy BD1,163 1,062 888 851 819 814 801 903 765 724 610 617
% reduction from baseline, legacy BD 47%
Absolute (cubic meters), combined 6,230,381 5,972,943 5,479,542 5,476,325 5,472,855 5,506,221 5,787,162 5,967,569 5,900,804 5,344,477 5,958,863 5,819,113
Normalized (cubic meters per $M 
COPS), combined1,096 1,050 895 855 824 808 790 866 753 706 684 646
2020 goal: Reduce water consumption by 40% (normalized by COPS).  Current status:  reduced by 41%. TARGET ACHIEVED
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Waste water discharge
Absolute (cubic meters), legacy Bard 0 0 0 0 0 185,028 242,905 242,536 248,418 359,572 775,805 824,778
Normalized (cubic meters per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 158 194 186 185 249 764 596
% discharge, legacy Bard 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 20% 26% 26% 27% 39% 61% 73%
Absolute (cubic meters), legacy BD 4,310,030 4,007,322 3,182,309 3,152,513 3,282,185 3,415,973 3,716,419 3,633,440 3,507,233 3,240,171 3,627,941 3,953,509
Normalized (cubic meters per $M 
COPS), legacy BD907 845 623 592 594 605 611 650 540 529 471 519
% discharge, legacy BD 78% 80% 70% 69% 73% 74% 76% 72% 71% 73% 77% 84%
Absolute (cubic meters), combined 4,310,030 4,007,322 3,182,309 3,152,513 3,282,185 3,601,001 3,959,324 3,875,976 3,755,650 3,599,743 4,403,746 4,778,287
Normalized (cubic meters per $M 
COPS), combined*758 705 520 492 494 529 540 563 479 475 505 531
% discharge, combined 69% 67% 58% 58% 60% 65% 68% 65% 64% 67% 74% 82%
*Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
GRI disclosures: 303-4, 303-5
 Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard combinedInnovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                63
Efficiency data tablesWaste—nonhazardous
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Total nonhazardous waste generated
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy Bard 3,799 5,066 5,066 5,066 5,066 5,582 6,201 7,589 8,002 9,113 12,829 8,855
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), incl. regulated waste, legacy 
Bard4.08 5.35 5.01 4.70 4.52 4.77 4.96 5.83 5.96 6.32 12.63 6.40
% reduction from baseline, legacy Bard -57%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy BD 50,882 47,610 48,929 49,105 47,441 46,800 45,078 44,159 49,862 46,371 54,712 58,141
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), incl. regulated waste, legacy BD10.71 10.04 9.57 9.22 8.59 8.30 7.42 7.90 7.68 7.57 7.11 7.63
% reduction from baseline, legacy BD 29%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), combined 54,681 52,676 53,994 54,171 52,506 52,383 51,280 51,748 57,864 55,484 67,541 66,996
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), incl. regulated waste, combined9.62 9.26 8.82 8.46 7.90 7.69 7.00 7.51 7.38 7.33 7.75 7.44
2020 goal:  Reduce total waste by 50% (normalized by COPS). Current status:  reduced by 23%
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Nonhazardous waste landfilled
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy Bard 1,364 1,819 1,819 1,819 1,819 2,093 2,592 2,870 2,917 3,184 3,813 2,969
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard1.46 1.92 1.80 1.69 1.62 1.79 2.07 2.21 2.17 2.21 3.75 2.15
% landfilled, legacy Bard 36% 36% 36% 36% 36% 37% 42% 38% 36% 35% 30% 34%
% diversion, legacy Bard 64% 64% 64% 64% 64% 63% 58% 62% 64% 65% 70% 66%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy BD 24,107 23,707 19,912 15,545 13,189 12,267 9,363 8,229 9,654 9,466 11,981 12,237
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy BD5.07 5.00 3.90 2.92 2.39 2.17 1.54 1.47 1.49 1.54 1.56 1.61
% landfilled, legacy BD 47% 50% 41% 32% 28% 26% 21% 19% 19% 20% 22% 21%
% diversion, legacy BD 53% 50% 59% 68% 72% 74% 79% 81% 81% 80% 78% 79%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), combined 25,472 25,526 21,731 17,364 15,008 14,360 11,955 11,099 12,571 12,649 15,794 15,206
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), combined4.48 4.49 3.55 2.71 2.26 2.11 1.63 1.61 1.60 1.67 1.81 1.69
% landfilled, combined 47% 48% 40% 32% 29% 27% 23% 21% 22% 23% 23% 23%
% diversion, combined 53% 52% 60% 68% 71% 73% 77% 79% 78% 77% 77% 77%
2020 goal:  Increase diversion rate by over 85% (absolute as % of total nonhazardous waste). Current status:  increased to 77%
GRI disclosures: 306-3, 306-5
 Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard combined
Innovation               Innovation               
Access                     Access                     
Empowerment       Empowerment       
Efficiency                Efficiency                64
Efficiency data tablesWaste—nonhazardous
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Nonhazardous waste incinerated
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy Bard 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 212 221
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.02 0.21 0.16
% incinerated, legacy Bard 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0% 2% 3%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy BD 5,096 3,226 3,228 3,198 2,998 4,156 4,231 3,550 5,980 6,237 8,158 9,545
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy BD1.07 0.68 0.63 0.60 0.54 0.74 0.70 0.64 0.92 1.02 1.06 1.25
% incinerated, legacy BD 10% 7% 7% 7% 6% 9% 9% 8% 12% 13% 15% 16%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), combined 5,096 3,226 3,228 3,198 2,998 4,156 4,231 3,550 5,980 6,259 8,371 9,767
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), combined*0.90 0.57 0.53 0.50 0.45 0.61 0.58 0.52 0.76 0.83 0.96 1.08
% reduction from baseline, combined 9% 6% 6% 6% 6% 8% 8% 7% 10% 11% 12% 15%
*Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Nonhazardous waste recycled
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy Bard 2,435 3,247 3,247 3,247 3,247 3,489 3,609 4,720 5,085 5,907 8,803 5,664
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard2.61 3.43 3.21 3.01 2.90 2.98 2.89 3.63 3.78 4.09 8.66 4.09
% recycled, legacy Bard 64% 64% 64% 64% 64% 63% 58% 62% 64% 65% 69% 64%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy BD 21,678 20,677 25,788 30,362 31,253 30,377 31,485 32,380 34,228 30,668 34,573 36,358
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy BD4.56 4.36 5.04 5.70 5.66 5.38 5.18 5.80 5.27 5.00 4.49 4.77
% recycled, legacy BD 43% 43% 53% 62% 66% 65% 70% 73% 69% 66% 63% 63%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), combined 24,113 23,924 29,035 33,609 34,500 33,866 35,094 37,099 39,313 36,576 43,376 42,023
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), combined4.24 4.21 4.74 5.25 5.19 4.97 4.79 5.39 5.02 4.83 4.98 4.67
% recycled, combined 44% 45% 54% 62% 66% 65% 68% 72% 68% 66% 64% 63%
2020 goal:  Increase recycling rate by over 70% (absolute as % of total nonhazardous waste). Current status:  increased to 63%
GRI disclosures: 306-4, 306-5
 Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard combined
Innovation               Innovation               
Access                     Access                     
Empowerment       Empowerment       
Efficiency                Efficiency                65
Efficiency data tablesWaste—regulated
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Regulated waste (bio-hazardous and controlled waste)
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy Bard 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 187 276
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.18 0.20
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy BD 196 181 707 1,504 858 687 1,028 1,216 1,117 1,095 934 1,015
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy BD0.04 0.04 0.14 0.28 0.16 0.12 0.17 0.22 0.17 0.18 0.12 0.13
Absolute (Metric tonnes), combined 196 181 707 1,504 858 687 1,028 1,216 1,117 1,101 1,121 1,291
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), combined*0.03 0.03 0.12 0.23 0.13 0.10 0.14 0.18 0.14 0.15 0.13 0.14
*Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Hazardous waste generation
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy Bard 253 338 338 338 347 449 1,066 1,178 1,098 1,227 1,199 914
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard0.27 0.36 0.33 0.31 0.31 0.38 0.85 0.91 0.82 0.85 1.18 0.66
% reduction, legacy Bard -143%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy BD 2,853 2,219 2,617 2,141 1,939 1,896 1,728 1,806 1,946 1,756 2,088 1,784
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy BD0.60 0.47 0.51 0.40 0.35 0.34 0.28 0.32 0.30 0.29 0.27 0.23
% reduction, legacy BD 61%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), combined 3,107 2,556 2,954 2,479 2,286 2,345 2,794 2,984 3,044 2,983 3,287 2,698
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), combined0.55 0.45 0.48 0.39 0.34 0.34 0.38 0.43 0.39 0.39 0.38 0.30
2020 goal:  Reduce hazardous waste by more than 60% (normalized by COPS). Current status:  reduced by 45%Waste—hazardous
GRI disclosure: 306-5
 Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard combinedInnovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                66
Efficiency data tablesVOC emissions
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
VOC emissions
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy Bard – – – – – – – – – – 182 155
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard– – – – – – – – – – 0.18 0.11
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy BD 339 139 116 113 134 123 139 138 151 191 225 207
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy BD0.07 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.03
Absolute (Metric tonnes), combined 339 139 116 113 134 123 139 138 151 191 407 362
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), combined*0.06 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.05 0.04
*Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
HAPs emissions
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
HAPs emissions
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy Bard 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 82 79
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.08 0.06
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy BD 15 13 23 23 18 17 14 12 16 23 26 21
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy BD0.003 0.003 0.004 0.004 0.003 0.003 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.004 0.003 0.003
Absolute (Metric tonnes), combined 15 13 23 23 18 17 14 12 16 23 107 100
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), combined*0.003 0.002 0.004 0.004 0.003 0.003 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.003 0.012 0.011
*Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
GRI disclosure: 305-7
 Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard combinedInnovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                67
Efficiency data tablesVOC + HAPs emissions
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
HAPs emissions
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy Bard 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 264 235
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.26 0.17
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy BD 355 152 138 137 152 141 153 150 167 214 251 228
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy BD0.07 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03
% reduction, legacy BD 60%
Absolute (Metric tonnes), combined 355 152 138 137 152 141 153 150 167 214 515 462
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), combined*0.06 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.06 0.05
2020 goal: Reduce VOC and HAPs emissions by 65% (normalized by COPS). Current status: reduced by 18%
*Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
Ozone-depleting substances emissions
Measurement and UOM FY 2008 
baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Ozone-depleting substances emissions
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy Bard 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.091
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.00
Absolute (Metric tonnes), legacy BD*339 274 249 254 235 236 228 218 192 185 172 103
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), legacy BD0.07 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.01
% reduction, legacy BD 81%
*Legacy BD data has been restated in FY 2018, due to error detected in data calculation.
Absolute (Metric tonnes), combined 339 274 249 254 235 236 228 218 192 185 172 104
Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M 
COPS), combined†0.06 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01
2020 goal:  Reduce ozone-depleting substance emissions by 95% (normalized by COPS). Current status:  reduced by 81%
2020 goal:  100% elimination of use of HCFC141b in manufacturing. Current status:  While a number of our facilities have completed conversion plans and eliminated the use of hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC), we continue to make 
progress implementing conversion plans at remaining facilities and expect to complete all conversions as scheduled.
†Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
GRI disclosures: 305-6, 305-7
 Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard combinedInnovation               Access                     Empowerment       Efficiency                68Introduction
We profoundly respect that what we do is for the good of people. That’s why BD associates work with 
humanity and kindness across cultures, regions and relationships. It is the behavior that is necessary to 
be responsible global citizens. It is what it means to care.Empowerment
Positive workforce and  
community impacts
2020 goal
Increase the diversity of our workplace, particularly in leadership roles
At BD, we are committed to driving inclusion and diversity across our global organization by building and engaging strong and 
inclusive teams and individuals. We leverage their unique ideas, backgrounds and experiences to deliver better outcomes for our 
global marketplace. We’ve become a more inclusive organization, celebrating our diversity and embedding both in the BD Way: 
“Inclusion and diversity make us a stronger team.” Our associates come from all backgrounds, races, ages, colors, creeds, religions, 
genders, orientations, abilities, thoughts and experiences, reflecting the communities we live and work in, the customers and patients 
we serve, and our broad range of thought and experience. Their diversity is an integral part of our success. We are better because of 
it and we all share the responsibility to drive our culture of inclusion, where all associates feel they belong at all times.
We look to our Associate Resource Groups (ARGs) to provide 
insights and counsel on how BD can best attract, develop and 
retain diverse talent in ways that meet their unique needs, drive 
business improvement and innovation, and help us to continually 
commit to being a socially responsible community partner.  
Our ARGs raise awareness and celebrate the differences that make 
us unique, while ensuring our associates feel a sense of belonging, 
and contribute to our business goals. Our first ARG—the Women’s 
Initiative Network (WIN)—launched in 2015 and we have 
continuously added additional ARGs since that time. This year, we 
successfully launched two more ARGs:
• LimitlessBD, whose mission is to raise awareness of people’s 
unique abilities and ensures a supportive environment where 
those impacted are continually advancing to their fullest 
potential; and
• Network for Employee-led Cross-Company Transformation 
(NEXT), whose mission is to foster a community that empowers 
associates looking to lead BD in the cross-company 
transformation of culture, policy and capabilities.  
We now have eight ARGs, each with at least one member of our 
Executive Leadership team as an executive sponsor. The ARGs create professional development opportunities for associates 
through peer mentoring, leadership and networking. Each ARG 
aligns its mission with the inclusion and diversity strategy and 
establishes annual impact objectives that affect our culture, 
business, community and associate professional development. 
This year, our ARGs focused efforts on diversity recruiting.  
BD supports organizations like the National Black MBA  
Association, Society of Women Engineers, National Sales Network 
and MVPvets. Our ARGs also identified areas to improve supplier 
diversity, influence company policies, programs and technology 
and continued building cultural competence and awareness.  
In partnership with our CEO, Tom Polen, ARGs provided quarterly 
career development sessions, open to all associates globally, 
engaging senior leaders to share stories of their personal career 
pursuits, challenges encountered and the resulting lessons learned. 
ARGs were also instrumental in addressing community-based 
needs by supporting organizations like the Human Rights 
Campaign, First Robotics and Special Olympics of New Jersey. 
They also partnered with organizations like Girl Scouts of the USA 
for a day of mentoring, Rise Against Hunger for our MLK Day of 
Service and Heart to Heart International, supporting asylum 
seekers at the U.S. border.Associate Resource GroupsInnovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       69BD continued leadership engagement in inclusion and diversity in 
2019 through our Global Inclusion Council, made up of senior 
leaders representing each business, region and function across the 
global enterprise. The council continues to advance inclusion and 
diversity to drive innovation and growth, ensuring a better 
understanding of our organizational needs and making BD the 
best possible place for all people to work. Each year, council 
members and their respective executive leaders identify inclusion 
and diversity priorities and associated objectives and metrics to 
work towards over the course of the year. This year, the council’s 
top priority was to lay a foundation of education for all associates on conscious inclusion, opening our associates to greater 
awareness of their personal biases and reaffirming the conscious 
behaviors and decision-making that drive our culture of inclusion. 
Council members identified leaders to be trained to deliver the 
learning content to associates within their respective organizations 
and across the enterprise, resulting in approximately 250 leader 
teachers. The training continues as we enter 2020 and will remain 
a priority for the council, along with designing future learning 
curriculum to build upon the foundation established.Global Inclusion Council
We are proud that our inclusion and diversity efforts have not only 
been instrumental to shaping our culture and impactful to our 
associates at BD but have also afforded us recognition by leading 
external organizations in inclusion and diversity. In 2019, BD was 
recognized for gender diversity by, among others, the Women’s 
Forum of New York, Executive Women of New Jersey, Society of 
Women Engineers and the Australian Government’s Workplace 
Gender Equality Agency. 
For the first time, BD was named as a Best Place to Work for 
Disability Inclusion with a score of 90 on Disability:IN’s 2019 
Disability Equality Index® (DEI). The DEI is a joint initiative by 
Disability:IN and the American Association of People with 
Disabilities (AAPD), and is considered the most comprehensive 
benchmarking tool for corporate disability inclusion developed by 
disability advocates and business leaders.
For the third consecutive year, BD was named to the 2020 list of 
Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality by the Human Rights 
Campaign and received a 100% score on its Corporate Equality 
Index (CEI). The CEI recognizes companies who have taken 
concrete steps to ensure greater equity for LGBTQ workers and 
their families in the form of comprehensive policies, benefits and 
practices. In addition to our internal work this year, BD actively 
lobbied for the Equality Act, demonstrating our support for 
consistent and explicit nondiscrimination protections for the LGBT 
community in the United States. BD also became a signatory for 
the United Nations’ LGBTI Business Standards and Open for 
Business, further demonstrating our commitment to equality and 
inclusion for the global LGBT+ community. 
Finally, in 2019, we also increased our leadership role in 
industry-specific inclusion and diversity advocacy. BD is one  
of several peer companies playing a leadership role in AdvaMed’s 
efforts to leverage collective expertise to help other U.S. medical technology companies achieve meaningful progress in improving 
the representation of diversity throughout the leadership pipeline. 
With our Chairman, Vince Forlenza, on the AdvaMed Board’s 
Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) Committee and our VP of I&D,  
Johnel Evans, a subcommittee member, BD is highly engaged  
and actively working towards improving diversity in the medical 
technology industry.
In FY 2020 and beyond, we are challenging ourselves to further 
mature our inclusion and diversity commitment, programs and 
impact. Next year, through our ARGs, we will focus on encouraging 
a culture of greater dialogue. And, through our I&D Center of 
Excellence, we will develop a new 3-year inclusion and diversity 
strategy to continue advancing our efforts and meeting the needs 
of our culture and our talent.Recognition
Innovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       70
End of FY 2016 End of FY 2017 End of FY 2018 End of FY 2019
Executive gender 22% 21% 23% 25%
Management gender 37% 38% 39% 39%
Executive ethnicity 14% 17% 17% 18%
Management ethnicity 26% 27% 27% 26%
FY 2019 data includes Bard associates.
2019 Board of Directors—ethnicity
Asian/Indian 0
Black or African American 1
Hispanic/Latino 0
Other 0
White 11
*Includes Vincent A. Forlenza, Chairman of the Board and former CEO.Gender breakdown of the Board of Directors and executive officers
Board of DirectorsWomen
4
Executive officers 2
Officers 4Men
8*
10*
11
GRI disclosure: 405-1FY 2019 worldwide associates by gender
49%
Women50%
Men 70,193
Total associates Demographic data
In this section of the report, the total number of associates 
being reported is 70,193, which includes Bard associates.
As part of the integration activities following the acquisition of 
Bard, BD worked to incorporate Bard associates into our single 
HR IT system. FY 2019 is the first reporting year to reflect this 
change in data; FY 2019 forward will include Bard associates.  
All reporting data for years previous to FY 2019 does not include 
Bard associates. 
In the charts below, “other” is defined as people who do not 
identify as those ethnicities listed above, or who identify as 
more than one ethnicity, and “not disclosed” indicates that the 
associate chose not to answer.Leadership representation metrics
In FY 2019, gender was not disclosed for 1% of the dataset.Innovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       71Executive and management positions
For the following tables, the total number of associates for each disclosure in executive and management positions 
is noted in the corresponding table. Bard associates are included in FY 2019 data.
Executives and management positions by gender (worldwide)
Executive Management
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018FY 2019
BD+ BardFY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018FY 2019
BD+ Bard
Female 22% 21% 23% 25% 38% 38% 39% 39%
Male 78% 79% 77% 75% 62% 62% 61% 61%
Total associates 295 280 283 354 6,923 7,340 7,722 10,074
BD defines executives as those in VP, SVP or EVP roles. Management positions are defined as those in manager, director or equivalent roles.
FY 2019 reporting numbers include Bard associates. All previous years excluded Bard associates.
Executive and management positions by age (worldwide)
Executive Management
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018FY 2019
BD+ BardFY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018FY 2019
BD+ Bard
Under 35 0% 1% 0% 0% 11% 11% 11% 11%
35–54 72% 70% 68% 72% 72% 72% 72% 72%
55 and older 27% 29% 32% 28% 17% 17% 17% 17%
Total associates 295 280 283 354 6,923 7,340 7,722 10,074
BD defines executives as those in VP, SVP or EVP roles. Management positions are defined as those in manager, director or equivalent roles.
FY 2019 reporting numbers include Bard associates. All previous years excluded Bard associates.
Executive and management positions by ethnicity (U.S. only)
Executive Management
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018FY 2019
BD+ BardFY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018FY 2019
BD+ Bard
Asian/Indian 9% 11% 10% 10% 14% 15% 14% 14%
Black or African American 3% 3% 2% 3% 4% 4% 4% 3%
Hispanic/Latino 2% 3% 4% 4% 5% 7% 7% 8%
Not disclosed 5% 2% 3% 4% 4% 3% 5% 5%
Other 0% 1% 1% 1% 3% 2% 2% 1%
White 81% 81% 80% 78% 71% 71% 68% 69%
Total associates 237 225 225 291 4,354 4,555 4,698 6,027
BD defines executives as those in VP, SVP or EVP roles. Management positions are defined as those in manager, director or equivalent roles.
FY 2019 reporting numbers include Bard associates. All previous years excluded Bard associates.
GRI disclosure: 405-1Innovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       72Associates
For the following tables, the total number of associates for each disclosure is noted in the corresponding table.  
Bard associates are included in FY 2019 data.
GRI disclosures: 401-1, 405-1Associates by age (worldwide)
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Under 35 35% 36% 32% 38%
35–54 52% 51% 54% 50%
55 and older 12% 12% 14% 12%
Total associates 45,814 47,750 43,581 70,193
In 2016 and 2017, age was not disclosed for 1% of the dataset. Workforce includes 
all associates, both management and nonmanagement.
FY 2019 reporting numbers include Bard associates. All previous years excluded 
Bard associates.
Associates by ethnicity (U.S. only)
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Asian/Indian 13% 13% 13% 11%
Black or African American 7% 8% 8% 9%
Hispanic/Latino 13% 16% 15% 16%
Not disclosed 5% 3% 2% 9%
Other 3% 2% 7% 2%
White 59% 59% 55% 54%
Total associates 17,375 17,528 17,943 24,216
Ethnicity data reflects that of the U.S. workforce including Alaska and Hawaii, but 
excluding Puerto Rico or any other U.S. territories. Workforce includes all associates, 
both management and nonmanagement.
FY 2019 reporting numbers include Bard associates. All previous years excluded 
Bard associates.New hire rate by age (worldwide)
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Under 35 10% 13% 13% 20%
35–54 6% 5% 7% 7%
55 and older 1% 0% 1% 1%
Workforce includes all associates, both management and nonmanagement.
FY 2019 reporting numbers include Bard associates. All previous years excluded 
Bard associates.
Turnover rate by age (worldwide)
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Under 35 13% 15% 8% 10%
35–54 7% 7% 6% 3%
55 and older 13% 2% 2% 3%
By turnovers, we mean the associates in the workforce who were with the company 
on the last day of the previous financial year (September 30, 2018) but no longer 
with the company in the reporting time period. Workforce includes all associates, 
both management and nonmanagement.
FY 2019 reporting numbers include Bard associates. All previous years excluded 
Bard associates.New hire rate by gender (worldwide)
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018FY 2019 
+Bard 
Female 8% 10% 9% 15%
Male 9% 9% 11% 14%
Workforce includes all associates, both management and nonmanagement.
FY 2019 reporting numbers include Bard associates. All previous years excluded 
Bard associates.
Turnover rate by gender (worldwide)
FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
Female 12% 14% 8% 6%
Male 9% 10% 9% 5%
By turnovers, we mean the associates in the workforce who were with the company 
on the last day of the previous financial year (September 30, 2018) but no longer 
with the company in the reporting time period. Workforce includes all associates, 
both management and nonmanagement.
FY 2019 reporting numbers include Bard associates. All previous years excluded 
Bard associates.Innovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       732020 goal
Achieve best-in-class associate safety performance
FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019
LTIFR* per 200,000  hours worked 0.29 0.32 0.26 0.24
OIFR† per 200,000  hours worked 0.004 0.03 0.00 0.00
Occupational IIR‡ rate per 
200,000 hours worked1.4 1.2 1.1 1.0 1.0 0.9 1.1 0.9 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.51
Data provided reflects manufacturing sites only. 
FY 2008–FY 2017, excludes Bard.
*Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)
†Occupational illness frequency rate (OIFR)
‡Occupational injury and illness rate (IIR)
There have been no fatalities since 2014.
GRI disclosure: 403-9At BD, safety is our priority. Our EHS efforts are driven by the 
goal of ensuring all associates are working safely and in an 
environment designed to protect and maintain health. 
Our work in FY 2019 sought to continue our EHS integration 
work across BD and Bard. We completed BD corporate audits for 
all legacy Bard facilities against the BD corporate standard, and 
have laid the groundwork to transition to a new governance 
model that enables us to standardize high-level EHS objectives 
as one BD. This will allow us to drive objectives core to the 
organization directly to our sites in a more systemic fashion and 
will streamline EHS communications, ultimately facilitating an 
effective integration of two EHS cultures. This project 
culminated in the establishment of a global advisory council 
consisting of business units, EHS and regional leaders—this 
council began meeting in early FY 2020 to solidify the work 
systems moving forward. In addition to our focus on designing a new governance model, we also worked to design a new audit 
model that will be launched in FY 2020 taking into consideration 
the depth and breadth of our new organization. 
BD continues to reinforce systems that strengthen our goal to 
drive a culture in which the health and well-being of our 
associates, visitors and contractors are an integral part of every 
decision we make at BD. Instrumental in driving this vision is the 
continuation of programs that drive management and 
leadership engagement, peer-to-peer coaching, and education 
and training.
Further details about our EHS management programs, please 
see EHS management in the Efficiency  section of this report.
Innovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       74Social Investing
Total cash donations $10 million
Total product donations $14 million
Value of company match to associate donations $1.7 million
Number of grants issued, worldwide 472
Number of nonprofit beneficiaries 415
Number of matching gifts distributed 13,000
$5,100,000   $680,000$2,100,000 $465,000 
$304,000 
$1,300,000 
Higher education
$9,949,000  
Total contributionsOther†Disaster relief
Health and human services§Civic and social welfare‡
Arts and cultureFY 2019 cash contributionsFY 2019 charitable giving summary
$24,870,000  
Total contributions
(cash and product)
$320,000
Volunteering—pro bono 
hours donated$550,000
Volunteering—skills-based
$14,000,000
Product donations$10,000,000
Cash donations *
*Includes matching gifts and contributions from individual BD locations
†Includes inclusion and diversity and   volunteer associate engagement
‡Includes basic needs/hometown giving
 §Includes care for the uninsured/underinsured, diabetes and prevention, global health, infection prevention, maternal and newborn health, vaccine preventable  
 diseases, women’s health, cancer and other healthCharitable giving summary, by the numbersInnovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       752020 goal
Partner with nonprofits to address unmet needs, locally and globally
BD Helping Build Healthy Communities ™ Initiative, by the numbers
Product donations have reached 400,000 patients .
Health outcomes of 65,000 patients  have been 
improved through our cash support.BD has provided Direct Relief with more than  
34 million insulin syringes  and 720,000 pen 
needles , valued at $9.9 million .
42 grants , totaling $5.8 million , have been issued 
to community health centers in 20 states .These items have been distributed to 1,300 
community health centers, free clinics and 
community clinics in all 50 states and Puerto Rico .Community health centers are on the front lines, every  
day, providing life-saving care to more than 29 million  
people in vulnerable rural and urban communities across  
 the United States. 
Without these community-based “family doctors,” millions of 
uninsured and underinsured patients would go without healthcare. 
Implemented in partnership with Direct Relief and the National 
Association of Community Health Centers , the BD Helping Build 
Healthy Communities ™ Program awards grants to community 
health centers to support the implementation of innovative 
approaches to meeting the unique healthcare needs of local, 
underserved and vulnerable populations.• In FY 2019, the program’s 7th year, BD invested $1.2 million, 
with 6 health centers each receiving $200,000. 
• Clinical data indicates that this funding is having a 
meaningful impact in the grant winners’ ability to expand 
access to quality patient care, particularly among patients 
with diabetes, hypertension, depression and difficulty with 
medication compliance. 
• In FY 2020, BD will continue to work with Direct Relief to 
monitor the longer-term clinical impacts this funding is 
having on patient care.BD Helping Build Healthy Communities™ Initiative  
Innovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       76In response to the success of the BD Helping Build Healthy 
Communities ™ Program, and to reach an even broader vulnerable 
population, BD worked with the National Association of Free and 
Charitable Clinics (NAFC)  to introduce three companion programs 
in 2017, which support free and charitable clinics. 
One of these programs, the BD® Advancing Community Health: 
Enhancing Clinical Effectiveness Program , was co-developed with 
Heart to Heart International . It aims to improve the diagnosis 
and treatment of chronic disease among vulnerable populations 
through the installation of point-of-care (POC) laboratories.Through this program in FY 2019:
• BD awarded $360,000 in funding and $14,000 in product to 
support lab installations at six community clinics located in 
Indiana, Georgia, Maryland, Mississippi, Virginia and Louisiana. 
• BD associate volunteers were deployed to six clinics, and spent 
2–3 days each, providing mentorship, laboratory set up 
guidance and diagnostic training. Expanding on program success
For more than a decade, BD has partnered with international 
relief agencies, such as Direct Relief, AmeriCares, MAP 
International and Heart to Heart International, to ensure its 
supplies and financial support are deployed as quickly and 
efficiently as possible to the people and communities who need 
them most. Notable FY 2019 product donations include:
• $1 million in insulin syringes, pen needles, swabs and lancets  
to 150+ summer camps for children with type 1 diabetes via 
Direct Relief . • 600,000 syringes, swabs and sharps containers  donated to 
Direct Relief for distribution to U.S. community health centers 
to accompany Pfizer’s Naloxone product donations for people 
experiencing a drug overdose in  49 states and territories . The 
impact of this donation has contributed to saving an 
estimated 10,000 lives  that would have been lost to drug use.
•  $1.3 million in instrument donations  (BD FACSymphony ™ 
System, BD FACSMelody ™ Cell Sorter, BD FACSLyric ™ System) 
to Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health’s 
Immune Function Lab  to support interdisciplinary, 
translational research efforts.Strategic product donation
Innovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       772020 goal
Drive social impact and associate engagement through volunteer programs
Having celebrated its 15th year in 2019, the company’s Volunteer 
Service Trip (VST) Program sends teams of BD associates to 
developing countries to help strengthen local health systems 
through training, education, laboratory services and construction 
projects. In FY 2019:
•  14 BD associates completed the company’s second VST to 
Mexico , where they continued efforts to serve Casa de la 
Amistad, a nongovernmental organization that provides 
comprehensive services to pediatric cancer patients and their 
caregivers. The team continued work on projects ranging 
from business development, marketing and program 
management to space utilization, process efficiency and IT. 
•  17 BD associates completed a VST to Haiti , where they 
worked with Heart to Heart International to provide training to help local healthcare workers, nurses and lab technicians 
improve the quality of care  they deliver to thousands of local 
families living in poverty. The volunteers also completed 
construction projects to strengthen the infrastructure of a 
local healthcare clinic, which provides health services to  
3,000 vulnerable women.  
•  29 BD associates from our Humacao, Puerto Rico site took 
part in a 2-day , local VST to transform a local school—which 
had been closed since Hurricane Maria—into a thriving 
community center that offers a health clinic, health fairs, 
summer camps and serves as a disaster relief shelter. This 
project was accepted as a Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) 
Commitment to Action.BD Volunteer Service Trip Program
Innovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       78in grants$80,000 14 14
nonprofit 
organizationsBD associates recognized 
for volunteerismHenry P . Becton Volunteer Impact AwardsBD Volunteer Service Trips, by the numbers
These global awards celebrate the outstanding and creative volunteer service of BD associates. In FY 2019, BD awarded grants totaling 
$80,000 to 14 nonprofit organizations around the world, recognizing the community service of 14 associates from 3 countries.BD sites, globally 89
262   BD volunteersyears of  
VST programs14
country locations 33
Innovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       79BD Matching Gift Program
BD matches charitable donations to eligible nonprofit organizations, 
up to $5,000 per U.S. associate, per year. In FY 2019, BD matched 
30,000+ associate donations to 501(c)(3) organizations in the United 
States, for a total investment of $1.7 million. 
In FY 2018, BD harmonized its matching gift program with Bard’s to 
ensure all associates receive the same match for their FY 2019 
community giving. In 2019, BD expanded its Annual Payroll 
Deduction Campaign to include legacy Bard associates. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service
BD is committed to encouraging associates around the world to join 
together to serve their local communities through volunteerism—
with the goal of bringing our company’s values to life, while making 
meaningful differences in the communities where they live and work.
As just a single example of this team-based volunteerism, in 2019, 
1,000+ BD associates at 14 sites across the United States celebrated 
the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service by packaging 260,000+ 
meals over 3 days for Rise Against Hunger programs. BD associate 
resource groups, including the Women’s Initiative Network (WIN) 
and African Americans at BD (AABD) helped coordinate the event at 
several sites, as did local associate volunteer councils at each 
location. In FY 2020, BD associates are aiming to reach the 
ambitious goal of packing their one-millionth meal for Rise Against 
Hunger through this day of service initiative.
World Water Day
BD collaborated with the Planet Water Foundation to celebrate 
World Water Day by deploying 22 BD associates to volunteer  
132 hours to Project 24, a 1-day volunteer effort that brought clean 
water to 18,000 people, and health and hygiene education and 
lasting change to 18 communities in 4 countries. In a later 
deployment, a second team of 10 BD volunteers from Mexico 
participated in another 1-day service project to construct a water 
tower serving 360 students and 2,500 residents of the community  
of San Jacinto.
Innovation               Access                     Efficiency                Empowerment       80Awards, recognitions and affiliations
Corporate recognition
Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index since 2005
Forbes  Just 100 list
FORTUNE’s  2019 World’s Most Admired Companies list
FORTUNE’s  2019 Change the World list
FTSE4Good Index since 2003
CR Magazine’s  100 Best Corporate Citizens List
2019 CPA-Zicklin Index on Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability—Center for 
Political Accountability
Newsweek’s  America’s Most Responsible Companies List
Innovation
2020 Derwent Top 100 Global Innovators list—Clarivate Analytics
Efficiency
U.S. EPA Green Power Partner
U.S. EPA SmartWay® Transport Partner
Empowerment
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality—Human Rights Campaign Foundation
Bloomberg—2020 Gender Equality Index
Disability Equality Index - Best Places to Work—The American Association of People 
with Disabilities and Disability
Employer of Choice for Gender Equality—Australia Workplace Gender Equality 
Agency (Australia)
Forbes  Best Employers for Diversity 2020
Top Employers Africa 2019—Top Employers Institute (Africa)
Top Employers China 2019—Top Employers Institute (China)
BD and the BD Logo are trademarks of Becton, Dickinson and Company. All other trademarks  
are the property of their respective owners. © 2020 BD. All rights reserved. 3910 (0720)bd.comBD, Franklin Lakes, NJ, 07417, U.S.To find out more about sustainability at BD or to provide feedback on our reporting,  
please contact  BD_Sustainability_Office@bd.com