FY 2020 Sustainability ReportHeadline 60/60   FS Albert Thin In the extraordinary year of 2020, we saw a myriad of ways in  which the health of our communities, environment and  businesses are inextricably linked.
Climate change stoked  record-breaking wildfires and hurricanes, while social justice  issues brought people out of their homes where they had been  living, working and quarantining to make their voices heard.
At BD, we recognize that we have a responsibility to address  these issues head-on, using our scale and influence to drive  continuous improvement across our society’s biggest  challenges.
Our Purpose— advancing the world of health ™— points to where that influence is most obvious: in responding  to the COVID-19 pandemic with solutions for diagnosis,  treatment and prevention.
However, we’re more than a med  tech innovator; we’re also an employer of more than 70,000  people around the world, a member of their communities and  a community of our own.
Our manufacturing facilities produce  billions of life-enhancing devices each year, employing  thousands in high-quality jobs, and we seek to do it while  minimizing our environmental impact, supporting the  members of our global team, and standing up for what is right.
In 2015, we launched a broader, more integrated approach to  sustainability, with goals in four key issue areas that reflected  our ambitions for 2020.
It is an approach that has enabled our  associates to rally around our purpose to develop innovative  diagnostic solutions for COVID-19 in record time, increase the  availability of products used in sample collection and the  treatment of critically ill patients, and work with governments  around the world to enable delivery of COVID-19 vaccinations.
And it’s an approach that has enabled us to celebrate our  differences while challenging each other to continue  advancing our own culture of inclusion while also addressing  systemic inequities.
I’m proud of how far we’ve come, and I  know we can make further progress in the years ahead.
The BD of 2020 is a very different company than the BD of  2015, having doubled in size through the successful  integrations of CareFusion and Bard.
That’s why we’re rolling  out a new set of ambitions and commitments that will drive  improvements across our global organization through 2030.
First, we want to highlight what we’ve accomplished in our  2020 focus areas, because this is the foundation that we will  build upon over the next decade.
These focus areas support  priority health needs that are aligned with the UN Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs) and shared value creation— meaning how we address unmet societal needs through  business models and initiatives that also contribute to the  commercial success of BD.
This has been the framework for how we manage, and make  an impact on, the most relevant social and environmental  issues for our company: Innovation We are building a strong portfolio of innovations that address  unmet clinical needs, developing solutions for both acute and  nonacute settings.
We are also bringing to market products  that meet patients where they are—whether it’s in the  physician’s office, an outpatient surgery center, the hospital, a  local retail pharmacy or in the patient’s own home.
In 2020,  we leveraged our world-class manufacturing, research and  development, global scale, and deep capabilities in software  and informatics to respond with agility and urgency to the  COVID-19 pandemic.
We launched a SARS-CoV-2 test on our  BD® Veritor Plus System, a rapid point-of-care  antigen test  system with a simple, digital display that returns results in   15 minutes.
Moreover, we also produced the BD® SARS-CoV-2  Assay for the BD MAX™ Molecular Diagnostic System,   a real-time PCR test intended for the qualitative detection of  nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2 in nasal, nasopharyngeal and  oropharyngeal swab samples.
Other healthcare challenges did not disappear with the onset  of the pandemic, however; the many innovations we  developed and launched in 2020 serve the entire healthcare  continuum, from discovery to diagnosis, to the process of care,  to the treatment of disease.
Access Beyond the innovations we developed to expand COVID-19  diagnostic and vaccine delivery options globally, we continued  to partner and collaborate with governments and nonprofit  organizations around the world to address priority health needs.
This encompasses our work with organizations like Project HOPE  to reduce infusion-related infections among healthcare workers  in China; with the U.S. Agency for International Development  and India’s National TB Elimination Program to improve access  to, and increase capacity for, liquid culture and drug- susceptibility testing; and the many partnerships we’ve forged  with leading health agencies and NGOs to raise awareness of  the threat of antimicrobial resistance and help reduce the risk   of infections globally.
BD was named to Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s    100 Best Corporate Citizens list for the fifth consecutive year  in 2020, and for the fourth time in the last six years, Fortune   magazine included BD on its annual list of companies that  “Change the World”—this time for fulfilling critical healthcare  needs during the COVID-19 pandemic.To our stakeholders Efficiency As I mentioned, BD is a vastly different organization than it was  in 2015, and the integration of two large organizations has  increased our complexity.
That’s why one of the three pillars of  our BD 2025 strategic vision is “Simplify”—we seek continuous  improvement and efficiency across our global operations to  reduce our environmental impact, reduce cost and waste, and  enhance our customer and associate experiences.
In the years ahead, we are prioritizing climate change as a  significant area of focus.
That’s why we have committed to  reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 46% by 2030 (from a  2019 baseline) and to be carbon neutral across our direct  operations by 2040.
This science-based target is aligned with a  1.5 °C global emissions reduction pathway and is just the first  of several commitments we plan to align with our 2030  sustainability vision.
Empowerment The BD WAY is a compilation of the values, leadership  commitments and mindsets that guide the behavior and  actions of every BD associate; it has been our North Star  throughout this extraordinary year.
It helped empower our  teams to take bold actions, make decisions swiftly and  prioritize the things that matter the most.
Our associate resource groups (ARGs) are leaders in this  regard.
The newest of these, Parents and Caregivers Together  (PACT), helped parents navigate the back-to-school process  during a global pandemic, while our African Americans at BD  (AABD) ARG organized a series of frank, open and timely  discussions with Black leaders at BD about social justice.
And the Women’s Initiative Network (WIN) was honored by  The Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association with a  prestigious 2020 ACE Award for their efforts to expand and  embed a culture of mentoring to BD sites around the globe.
We work to empower our communities as well.
For example,  BD and the BD Foundation committed $7.8 million in  monetary grants and product donations over the next three  years to support the continued expansion of the BD Helping  Build Healthy Communities ™ Initiative, which issues grants to  community health centers that are implementing innovative,  successful approaches to providing quality healthcare to  underserved populations in the United States.
Advancing toward a more  sustainable future We’re proud of the advancements we have made toward a   more sustainable future, even in a year in which our greatest  focus was on responding to the greatest healthcare challenge   in generations.
Our progress in advancing the world of health ™ is inseparable  from the way we treat our associates, our customers, our  communities and our environment.
There will always be more  work to do, and as we roll out our 2030 sustainability vision,   we will strive to continue to be leaders in building an ethical and  sustainable business that continues to grow while supporting our  communities—and society—for generations to come.
Sincerely, Tom Polen Chairman, CEO and President This report provides an update on our global environmental,  social and governance (ESG) performance against our 2020  goals, during fiscal year 2020 (October 1, 2019 to September  30, 2020) for Becton, Dickinson and Company (BD) and our  subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.
We report annually on our sustainability performance, and  published our last report, which highlighted progress made in  fiscal year 2019, in July 2020.
In December 2017, BD acquired C.
R.
Bard, Inc.
(Bard), a   leading multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer   of innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields  of vascular, urological, oncological and surgical specialty  products.
Bard data is integrated into all data provided  throughout this report, unless noted.
This report contains standard disclosures from the Global  Reporting Initiative ™ (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
While this report is not intended to meet the requirements of  the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, reference numbers for standard disclosures have been included where full or partial  information has been provided.
This report contains standard disclosures from the Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Medical Equipment and  Supplies Sustainability Accounting Standard.
While this report is  not intended to meet all the requirements of the SASB standard,  reference numbers for disclosures have been included where full  or partial information has been provided.
Data in this report has not been externally assured.
Reporting and performance data includes information on our  owned and operated facilities.
We have processes in place to  ensure that reporting on key sustainability performance  indicators is as accurate and robust as possible, and we  continually work to improve them.
We seek feedback from stakeholders each year, which informs  our selection of content for sustainability reporting.
For contact  information, see the final page of this report.
Our previous sustainability report is available on our website .
GRI disclosures: 102-1, 102-10, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56About this report BD is one of the largest global medical technology companies in  the world and is advancing the world of health ™ by improving  medical discovery, diagnostics and the delivery of care.
The company supports the heroes on the front lines of healthcare  by developing innovative technologies, services and solutions that  help advance both clinical therapy for patients and the clinical  process for healthcare providers.
BD and its 70,000 associates  have a passion and commitment to help enhance the safety and  efficiency of clinicians’ care delivery processes.
BD enables laboratory scientists to accurately detect disease  and advance researchers’ capabilities to develop the next  generation of diagnostics and therapeutics.
BD has a presence  in virtually every country and partners with organizations  around the world to address some of the most challenging  global health issues.
By working closely with customers,   BD can help enhance outcomes, lower costs, increase  efficiencies, improve safety and expand access to healthcare.
For more information on BD, please visit  bd.com .
GRI disclosures: 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6,   102-7, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25, 201-1About BD The BD Medical segment  focuses on providing innovative  solutions to reduce the spread of infection, enhance diabetes  treatment, advance drug delivery, improve surgical procedures  and provide effective and safe medication management.
Customers served include hospitals and clinics; physicians;  governmental and public health agencies; healthcare workers;  retail pharmacies; pharmaceutical and biotech companies;  and consumers.
The BD Life Sciences segment  delivers innovative solutions  from discovery to diagnosis, continually advancing science and  clinical outcomes across infectious disease and cancer.
Offerings include preanalytical solutions for sample  management; immunology research solutions, including flow cytometry and multiomics tools; microbiology and molecular  diagnostics; lab automation and informatics solutions; and  differentiated reagents and assays.
Customers served include  research institutions, industrial and reference laboratories; blood  banks; hospitals and clinics; alternate site healthcare; public  health agencies; academic and government institutions; and  pharmaceutical and biotech companies.
The BD Interventional segment  focuses on developing  innovative surgical, endovascular, urological and critical care  interventions that not only meet clinical needs but also deliver  value to health systems and improve patients’ lives.
Customers  served include hospitals and clinics; physicians; ambulatory  surgery centers; nurses; and consumers.
GRI disclosures: 102-2, 102-6About our businesses BD is structured to serve customers by providing unique solutions.
The data below represents the company structure for FY 2020.Company structure Revenue by geography Revenue by segment BD Medical  $8.
Medication Delivery Systems  $3.
Medication Management Solutions  $2.
Diabetes Care  $1.
Pharmaceutical Systems  $1.BD Life Sciences  $4.
Integrated Diagnostic Solutions *  $3.
Biosciences  $1.BD Interventional  $3.
Peripheral Intervention  $1.
Surgery  $1.
Urology and Critical Care  $1.Values in this exhibit reflect rounded numbers in billions of dollars.
*Effective October 1, 2019, the Preanalytical Systems and Diagnostic Systems units were joined to create the new Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit.BD Interventional BD MedicalBD Life Sciences$17.Total BD revenue GRI disclosures: 102-6, 102-(millions of dollars) United States (including Puerto Rico)  $9,716Europe   $3,Greater Asia  (including countries in Greater China,  Japan, South Asia, Southeast Asia,  Korea, Australia and New Zealand) $2,568Other  is comprised of Latin America (including Mexico,  Central America, the Carribean and South America), Canada,  and EMA (including the Commonwealth of Independent  States, the Middle East and Africa)  $1,(billions of dollars) BD has more than 800 critical to healthcare suppliers that  provide key materials, including plastics, glass, metals, textiles,  electronic and mechanical subassemblies, and various paper,  agricultural, biological, chemical and petrochemical products.BD manufactures and sells over 80,000 products worldwide.
We market our products in the United States and internationally  through independent distribution channels and directly to   end users with company associates or independent   sales representatives.
GRI disclosure: 102-6Value chain profile BD Medical BD Life Sciences BD Interventional Hospitals a a a Ambulatory surgical centers a a a Clinics a a a Laboratories a Physicians' office practices a a a Consumers and retail pharmacies a Government agencies* a a a Academic and government institutions a a a Public health agencies a a a Nonprofit public health agencies a a a Blood banks a Pharmaceutical companies a a Biotechnology companies a a Healthcare workers a a aPrimary customers served *Including prison system, military (DOD), VA.
We center our sustainability strategy upon our Purpose— advancing the world of health ™—and integrally tie it to our  business strategy.
Our sustainability strategy addresses a wide range of challenges in our industry while helping to make a difference on relevant  issues that affect society and the planet.
We also actively evaluate how we can mobilize and contribute to the achievement of  the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our product and service offerings as well as collaborative efforts across  various sectors—most prominently around SDG 3, for good health and well-being.
In this section we outline our overall sustainability strategy and the mechanisms that help us support this work.
We first detail the  governance of our sustainability program and stakeholder engagement.
This is followed by information about significant ESG  issues that formed the basis of the 2020 sustainability strategy and goals; performance against the goals are covered in the  following sections of this report.
This section concludes with a high-level outline of the development of our 2030+ sustainability  strategy and commitments.
This will be the framework we will measure our performance against, and will report on in future  issues of our sustainability report.Sustainability strategy Solar panels installed at the BD European Headquarters in Eysins, Switzerland.
Sustainability governance The Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S)  team manages our ESG reporting, as well as stakeholder  engagement activities relevant to our sustainability strategy.
This group is led by the VP EHS&S, who reports directly to the  executive vice president of Integrated Supply Chain.
This position reports to the CEO and is part of the company’s  Executive Leadership Team.
The CEO is also Chairman  of the Board.
Our sustainability strategy is governed by the Executive  Leadership Team, which maintains a dialog with our  stakeholders, businesses and associates about issues relevant   to each group and monitors performance related to our  sustainability strategy.Our Board of Directors—as a board or through its  committees—also oversees several sustainability-related  issues, including: In addition, the Corporate Governance and Nominating  Committee oversees matters that involve the company’s image,  reputation and our standing as a responsible corporate citizen.
This includes ESG issues and initiatives relating to sustainability,  access to healthcare and other social topics.
The VP EHS&S  provides an update on activities related to our sustainability  strategy and performance on an annual basis.As I reflect on the work we have done over the past five years  toward our 2020 sustainability goals, I’m struck by the amount of  transformation that has taken place at BD, within healthcare and  throughout society in that short period of time.
We successfully  leveraged the change and transformation that transpired to  advance work across each of the pillars of our strategy.
The transformational acquisitions that BD made during this  period, combined with advancements in technology and  digitalization, enabled significant progress across our work on  Innovation  and Access .
During that same time, we strengthened  our capabilities and focus on addressing emerging social and  environmental issues, enabling many accomplishments across   our work on Efficiency  and Empowerment .
Most importantly,   we have many lessons learned that will be applied to our work  going forward.
Our 2020 goals created a platform to engage with our  stakeholders on many different issues that affect society at large.
Those perspectives, and the important dialog we have created,  has informed the next phase of our work and will remain an  important part of how we shape our strategies going forward.
As we embark on the next phase of work to advance the many  topics contained within our sustainability strategy, we remain  steadfast in our alignment to the BD Purpose— advancing the  world of health ™.
Our 2030+ sustainability goals seek to address and further  advance how we manage risks and opportunities around our  most significant ESG issues.
Our 2030+ sustainability strategy   is rooted in an understanding of the important role we play in  addressing social and environmental issues and setting an  example for responsibility in a rapidly changing world.
With our 2030+ goals as the platform, we will seek to address climate  change through reducing emissions across our supply chain and  integrating climate impacts into various parts of our business  strategy and decisions, while at the same time addressing the  impact of our products and resiliency of our supply chain.
We will  also seek to strengthen the health of our workforce and  communities across the globe through the lens of well-being and  equality for all.
Lastly, we understand the importance of  communicating to all our stakeholders on these important issues  and will continue to evolve our ESG reporting.
We know that the work that lies ahead to pursue these goals is  challenging, yet I continue to be inspired each day by our more  than 70,000 associates globally who bring their innovative  thinking and passion for our Purpose to their work.
I know that  through the power and will of our associates, along with our  supply chain partners, customers and many other stakeholders,  we will make a meaningful and lasting impact through our 2030+  sustainability goals and strengthen the resilience of our business  in parallel.
Thank you for your engagement and partnership in this  important work.To our stakeholders Ellen Kondracki VP, Sustainability and Environment,  Health and Safety GRI disclosures: 102-18, 102-26, 102-31• Community relations • Political engagement • Human capital  management practices • Environment,  health and safety• Ethics and  enterprise compliance • Innovation • Cybersecurity • Product quality and safety • Customers:  Our customers and patients are at the center of  everything that we do.
In a fast-changing environment, it is  vital for BD to understand what our customers value most to  develop solutions that will best meet their needs.
We create a  deep understanding of the healthcare market and its  customers through a fact-based approach across regions and  strategically engage with customers to develop and deploy  our products and solutions.
• Shareholders:  Our focus on shareholders is to ensure   that the combination of our business and geographic  diversity—our balanced capital allocation and our drive   for efficiency—provides a long-term pathway toward  sustainable profit growth that returns capital to shareholders.
We engage with shareholders in a variety of forms, including  quarterly calls and in-person meetings, on specific topics that  range from our long-term growth and innovation strategy to  how we integrate ESG factors into our business.
• BD associates:  BD has grown to over 70,000 associates.
The capabilities and dedication of these associates are  critical to achieving our strategy.
We engage and develop   our associates through a variety of mechanisms, including  internal social networks, town hall meetings, leadership   and mentoring programs, and associate resource groups.
• Business partners:  Our suppliers, distributors and other  partners in the supply chain help us effectively serve our  customers.
We engage with them through a variety of  strategic programs, including through relationship managers  within our Integrated Supply Chain function.
• Communities:  At the country level, our general managers  engage with a variety of community stakeholders to  understand the health system’s priorities and align our  capabilities to them.
In communities where we have  manufacturing operations, we engage with local government  officials and civic organizations, and often develop  relationships with teaching institutions to help develop the  skill sets we require in our operations.
In addition, our  associates engage in community-organized volunteer efforts  to support local programs.• Governments, policymakers and regulatory bodies:    We engage governments and policymakers through various  ways, primarily through our public affairs teams.
We engage  at the agency and legislative levels in many countries to  enhance our understanding of the governments’ priorities.
From these engagements, we seek ways to deploy our  capabilities, products, and solutions to help support and  achieve national health objectives.
BD engages with our  global regulatory bodies directly and through participation in  public private partnerships and collaborative communities  supporting product safety, cybersecurity, and technical  standard initiatives to support the advancement of  innovation and how innovation is regulated to bring  technologies to market faster while prioritizing  product safety.
• International agencies and Nongovernmental  organizations (NGOs):  We engage with UN agencies such  as the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations  Interagency Coordination Group (UN IACG) on Antimicrobial  Resistance, UNICEF, the Joint United Nations Programme on  HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and other international and  intergovernmental organizations through collaborations that  aim to address pressing global health needs.
We routinely  pursue these types of collaborations as an integral part of our  business model in countries throughout the world.
In many  cases, NGOs and relief organizations are strategic partners in  helping us meet unmet health needs.
We engage with them  through in-person meetings, collaborative initiatives and site  visits to strengthen how we serve those in need.Stakeholder engagement GRI disclosure: 102-40Our stakeholdersBecause of our global reach and the nature of our work, we serve and rely on a wide range of stakeholders.
Engaging with them  through a variety of channels across many parts of our organization is critical to how we apply the principle of shared value and  therefore essential to our business success.
Often, we work collaboratively with stakeholders who share our objectives and, in the  process, we gain a deep understanding of their work.
We listen to our stakeholders’ views and suggestions, and use that feedback to  improve our products, services and business practices.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance We utilized a defined process to evaluate and prioritize the ESG  factors most relevant to our business and stakeholders.
By using  this process, we defined four areas of focus that provided the  framework for our 2020 sustainability goals: • Innovation—How we contribute to more sustainable  healthcare systems by improving outcomes, reducing system  costs and protecting patients and healthcare workers• Access—How we support health system leapfrogging in  emerging and developing economies, and reach vulnerable  populations globally • Efficiency—How we work across our value chain to minimize  environmental impact and create positive social impact • Empowerment—How we advance our purpose-driven culture  through workforce and community engagementsSignificant ESG issues2020 sustainability strategy For the development of our 2020 strategy, our ESG issues were: GRI disclosure: 102-47• Inclusion and diversity • Associate health   and safety• Attraction and  retention of talent • Transparent   and ethical   business practices• Data security • Informatics and innovationAccess • Planetary health  • Sustainable  supply chain • Product design and life  cycle management• Energy and  GHG management • Waste • WaterInnovation Efficiency• Collaborations and  partnerships • Value-based outcomes• Patient-centric care • Healthcare access   and affordability Empowerment Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance We launched our 2020 sustainability goals in July 2015,  reflecting a broader and more integrated agenda than previous  years.
In our FY 2016 Sustainability Report, we outlined  alignment to our core activities and aligned the 2020 goal  framework against the 17 SDGs and associated 169 targets.
Our analysis reviewed the type of impact BD has on the SDG  target, the location of impacts within the value chain and our  degree of control and relevant ESG factors.
We will update this  analysis against our new 2030 strategy and will publish the  results in subsequent reports.2020 sustainability goals Innovate  key healthcare processes such as medication management and lab automation Develop  innovations and informatics to enable disease management across the care continuum Enable  the transition from research into clinical practice Provide solutions that improve healthcare worker and patient safetyInnovation Access Efficiency EmpowermentDevelop  low-cost innovations to address leading causes of mortality and morbidity Collaborate  on health system strengthening with leading agencies and NGOs Further expand BD manufacturing, product array and employment in emerging markets Reduce  GHG emissions and increase climate resilience throughout operations and value chain Minimize our environmental footprint and conserve natural resources Establish  a supplier responsibility evaluation methodology Reduce  priority materials of concern in specified product categories Improve life cycle impacts of current and future products Increase  the diversity of our workforce, particularly in leadership roles Achieve  best-in-class associate safety performance Partner  with nonprofits to address unmet needs locally and globally Drive  social impact and associate engagement through volunteer programs Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Sustainability 2030+Our 2030+ sustainability strategy has been informed by a  stakeholder-driven assessment of a wide range of environmental,  social and governance issues, along with scenario analysis using  future factors.
It will focus on five impact areas and will ensure we  remain focused on shared value creation  —meaning how we address unmet societal needs through business models and  initiatives that also contribute to the commercial success of BD.
Our 2030+ sustainability strategy will be formally launched   in FY 2021.2030+ sustainability strategy Climate change Minimize our contribution to global  emissions and utilize our capabilities  to address unmet health needs for  climate-vulnerable populations.
Transparency Invite trust across  stakeholder groups through  transparent performance  reporting on environmental,  social and governance issues  relevant to our business.
Healthy workforce Maintain a healthy and  thriving workforce that  cultivates our culture of  inclusion, safety and  well-being.Supply chain resilience Create a supply chain adaptable   to disruption and able to contribute  to strong environmental and   social performance.Product impacts Reduce the environmental  impact of our portfolio and  address the sustainability  needs of our customers.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance When  we analyze the various sustainability issues relevant to  our business and society, we recognize the significant impact  climate change will have on our operations, our supply chain  and, most urgently, on human health.
The Intergovernmental  Panel on Climate Change has warned that global warming must  not exceed 1.5 °C to avoid the catastrophic impacts of climate  change.
We therefore recognize that setting ambitious emission  reduction targets based on science must be part of our overall  strategy to manage and mitigate the impacts of  climate change.
At the end of 2020, we announced  our first set of targets under  the climate change impact area.
These targets are aimed at reducing our contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions  from direct operations.
We have committed to reduce Scope 1  and 2 GHG emissions, 46% by 2030 (from a 2019 baseline)   and to be carbon neutral across our direct operations by 2040.
This science-based target is aligned with 1.5 °C global emissions  reduction pathway.
Climate change will continue to shape our sustainability  programs and our business for years to come.
We will announce  additional goals and targets in line with our 2030 sustainability  strategy during FY 2021.Climate change BD continues to follow all state, local and federal requirements  and ensures adherence to workplace health and safety  regulations for our essential workers.
We have instituted  preventative measures at our facilities to help protect  associates, including: • Enhanced cleaning protocols and increasing  cleaning frequency • Implementing temperature screenings and symptom checks  for on-site associates • Deploying personal protective equipment (PPE) to on-site  associates and field workers • Implementing social distancing in our facilities • Supporting remote work for all associates who are able • Suspending travel and group meetings  • Limiting on-site visitors • Regularly educating associates about thorough health   and hygiene practices, including social distancing,   self-quarantining and handwashingChanges in demand across our portfolio did result in the need   to take temporary actions to reduce our costs so we could  continue to serve our customers during the height of the  pandemic and into the future.
Steps included temporary work  reductions, by slowing or suspending production at select  manufacturing locations.
This led to a limited number of furloughs, which allowed us to  retain BD associates as employees.
While pay was adjusted  accordingly,  we recognized the disruption this could cause to  our associates and their families and we wanted to do  everything we could to support and care for associates—this  included affected associates retaining their benefits, including  medical benefits, and establishing an employee assistance fund We also believe leaders in the company have the responsibility  to serve and act in the best interest of the company and our  associates, helping to ensure that we can emerge stronger.
Therefore, all BD leaders globally, along with the chairman and  Board of Directors, were subject to a temporary reduction in  base pay in 2020.
*Protecting the health, safety and well-being of BD associatesOur response to COVID-BD continues to closely monitor COVID-19 (coronavirus) developments across the world as well as guidance from the U.S. Centers for  Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the World Health Organization (WHO) and global health officials.
We are working vigilantly to  protect the health and safety of BD associates while also ensuring continued availability of our critical health preserving, lifesaving  and diagnostic medical devices during this challenging time.
Content in this spotlight is current as of June 2021.
Spotlight—COVID-*Subject to any required consultation process and local law where applicable.
BD manufactures and sources products from multiple locations around the world.
All of our global manufacturing and distribution centers  are operational at this time, with the vast majority of critical-to-COVID sites operating at or near full capacity.
In countries where local governments have imposed stricter “lockdown” measures to slow the spread of coronavirus, BD facilities continue to  operate with measures in place to ensure business continuity and minimize risk of disruption to our customers.BD operations Product availability: Supply and business continuity In addition, BD continues to work closely with our key suppliers  around the world that provide raw materials and components to  our manufacturing plants.
We have implemented business  continuity measures to mitigate the risk of potential supplier  disruption, including partnering with local governments to seek  “essential business” exemptions for key suppliers  where necessary.
BD continues to have sufficient raw material and component  inventory for the majority of products considered critical to  COVID-19.
If materials or components are deemed at risk, BD  activates any number of preapproved contingency plans,  including those for: • Seeking alternative suppliers • Redeploying raw materials and/or finished goods from other  parts of the BD network • Placing at-risk products on order review to prevent stockpilingDedicated teams continue to actively monitor our global  logistics and transportation network, taking action when  necessary to navigate global capacity limitations and border  constraints to minimize the risk of any customer delays.
We are  making every effort to ensure the final product is transported to  distributors and customers as quickly and efficiently as possible.
For U.S. customers, an up-to-date list of products on manual  inventory allocation can be found in the Allocation  section of  our website.
Spotlight—COVID-Increasing access to testing The path forward out of COVID-19 relies on populations  worldwide having access to tests.
BD is a critical supplier of swabs and other sample collection  products for COVID-19 and has launched multiple molecular  tests, enabling clinicians to know if a patient currently has  COVID-19.
These molecular tests are primarily completed in a  hospital lab versus an offsite reference lab, so our results can be  seen in as little as two to three hours, not two to three days.
Our product teams are developing new testing options that can  be quickly deployed at scale, and we have already aggressively  increased production of our existing portfolio to help meet the  overwhelming global demand.Supporting COVID patient care On any given day, we estimate our products are part of the care  delivery for over 90% of U.S. hospital patients.
Our technologies and devices are on the front lines in the crisis,  helping physicians and nurses manage medications, safely  delivering drugs to patients and supporting advanced care  needs in ICUs. Advancing discovery Our solutions, instruments and data analysis platforms are  integral to helping researchers rapidly deepen our  understanding of COVID-19 at a cellular level, specifically in  clarifying our picture of the body’s immune system response.
With a more detailed knowledge of immune responses,  researchers have a stronger foundation to develop more  effective therapies.What we are doing to address immediate needsOur products: Supporting a global response Enabling a return to the workplace In order to safely restart our economies, we need both  multifaceted testing capabilities and advanced disease  monitoring capabilities.
Our information and data technologies help health systems  assess data on test results, drug inventory, hospital utilization  trends and more to help form a picture of risks and responses.
And as we look ahead to cautiously returning to “normal,”   our technologies can help detect early warning signs of   re-emergence of the disease.Enabling the delivery of COVID-19 vaccinations BD has been by the side of vaccine developers and healthcare  providers for decades, ensuring the availability and safe  administration of vaccines from polio to the seasonal flu.
As COVID-19 vaccinations accelerate, and researchers continue  pursuing novel vaccines and treatments, BD has a full suite of  medication delivery devices to meet the needs of each potential  drug.
We continue working with governments around the world  to understand their needs and scale up production.
COVID-19 Insights  & Analytics Learn how test ing can helpCarving a path out of the crisis Spotlight—COVID-PREVENT TREAT BD Veritor ™ Rapid POC  COVID-19 Antigen TestAs one of the largest global medical technology companies in  the world, BD is deploying our capabilities, expertise and scale  to address critical health needs related to coronavirus—from our diagnostic offerings to detect SARS-CoV-2, to real-time  informatics and electronic surveillance technology, to essential  medical devices to support patient care.
• Is offering a molecular diagnostic test  for both   SARS-CoV-2 and influenza A+B that can return results   using a single specimen in two to three hours;  • Is providing point-of-care antigen tests  that have the  potential to significantly change the public health  interventions needed to minimize the spread of COVID-19;  • Has delivered more than 900 million injection devices and  continues to deploy shipments of needles and syringes for  pandemic orders of more than 2 billion injection devices  to  support global COVID-19 vaccination planning efforts;  • Is enabling COVID-19 testing facilities , including labs,  hospitals and nursing homes, to provide timely, accurate data  reporting, empowering public health officials to more  precisely monitor the spread of COVID-19;  • Has leveraged its global manufacturing network and  scale  to increase production of SARS-CoV-2 antigen tests  from a rate of 8 million per month in October 2020, to a  capability of 12 million per month by March 2021;  • Is preparing for future pandemic efforts  by partnering  with the U.S. government on a $70 million capital project to  further expand our operations and manufacturing capacity  in Nebraska that, when complete, will provide the federal  government with priority access to hundreds of millions of  injection devices to support vaccination efforts for COVID-19  and future pandemics; and • Is investing approximately $1.2 billion  over a four-year  period to expand and upgrade manufacturing capacity and  technology for prefillable syringes and advanced drug  delivery systems.
This allows for continued growth of new  injectable drugs and vaccines, and provides surge capacity  for increased prefillable syringe demand during times of  pandemic response.
Cybersecurity and COVID-Over the past year, BD has: • Expanded secure connectivity options for the BD Veritor ™ Plus  System, a point-of-care device used to perform SARS-CoV-2  diagnostic testing;   • Enabled encrypted reporting capabilities for the BD Synapsys ™  Microbiology Informatics Solutions, which unifies instrument- read COVID-19 test results from the BD Veritor ™ and BD  MAX ™ Systems, simplifying the process of reporting accurate  results to public health authorities daily;  • Engaged with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security  Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) to  strengthen our threat intel and bolster supply chain  cybersecurity; and   • Increased cybersecurity awareness training, especially  among associates who quickly transitioned to remote work  due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
BD MAX ™ Molecular  COVID-19 Tests and  Respiratory Panel  Swabs and UVT kits IV drug delivery in ICUs  and isolation extension sets Medication management  in field hospitals IV catheters and PICCs for  COVID-19 treatments Over 2 billion devices  committed for   COVID-19 vaccinations Partnering with pharma for  potential future prefilled  COVID-19 vaccine Note: Not all products are available in all countries/regions.DIAGNOSE BD HealthSight ™ Medication Management Platform with MedMined ™ Data Analytics for real-time   surveillance reporting and medication use reporting Specifically, BD:  Spotlight—COVID-BD and the BD Foundation have issued nearly $2.8 million in  philanthropic grants and product donations to trusted nonprofit  partners that are working to protect the most vulnerable  communities and individuals from the pandemic’s spread and  negative impacts.
BD volunteers are heeding the call too.
Clinically trained associates in BD sites around the world are  volunteering their time to augment hospital staff in communities hard-hit by COVID-19; and associates from a  broad range of disciplines are delivering virtual trainings to  teach community and nonprofit organizations how to contain  its spread.
Here, we share just a few examples of the local and global  impact of those philanthropic investments.
Leveraging telehealth technology to provide care to New Jersey patients with urgent,  chronic or preventive health needsPhilanthropic investments in the fight against COVID-The Bergen Volunteer Medical  Initiative (BVMI)  is a free primary  care clinic serving working, low  income and uninsured residents of  Bergen County, NJ, where the BD  U.S. headquarters is located.
When its healthcare center needed  to be temporarily closed during the onset of the pandemic,  BVMI leveraged its emergency COVID-19 grant funding from  BD to help launch an urgent telehealth program   to fill the gap.“Our online telehealth program ramped up quickly, providing  100 medical appointments each week for patients in need of  urgent, chronic, or preventive care, and ensuring that patients  with COVID-19 symptoms or concerns had immediate access to  medical care.
This program is also facilitating patient access to a  case manager who assists our lowest income patients in  obtaining food, rental assistance and other vital services in  partnership with other community organizations,”  said Amanda  Missey, President & CEO.
Meeting the expanding needs of those facing homelessness and hunger in New Jersey An increasing number of families   across Northern New Jersey, where  the BD U.S. headquarters is located,  have experienced economic hardship as a result of COVID-19.
Family Promise of Bergen County  has leveraged its COVID-19  emergency grant funding from BD to provide shelter and/or  support to 24 families through a combination of apartment or  hotel housing, rental assistance and post-shelter support.
“Each of the families we’ve been able to support has also  received transformative case management, financial education,  job training, childcare, transportation support, meals and  enrichment for their children.
We’ve also been able to address  the growing issue of food insecurity in Bergen County by  significantly expanding our meal program.
Since March 2020,  with help from BD, this program has provided 85,000 meals and  more than 9,000 15-pound boxes of fresh produce to families,”   said Kate Duggan, Executive Director.
Providing urgent, lifesaving services to families in Port Elizabeth, South Africa For more than 21 years,   Ubuntu Pathways  has placed South  Africa’s most vulnerable children on  pathways out of poverty, from cradle  to career.
When the COVID-19  pandemic hit, the organization immediately mobilized an  emergency COVID-19 response to deliver urgent lifesaving  services in the city of Port Elizabeth.
“With the generous grant from BD, we are providing a  comprehensive support system to help families cope with this  crisis,”  said Jacob Lief, Founder & CEO.
“This includes delivering  food and safety packages to 4,000 households (nearly 30,000  people); supplying critical personal protective equipment to 27  local clinics, hospitals and social service institutions; providing  medical services to patients living with HIV and compromised  immune systems; and implementing a host of wraparound  services, including case management, remote education and job  skills training.” Spotlight—COVID-Working to reduce the impact of COVID-19 in 180+ countries UNICEF  has leveraged its emergency  COVID-19 grant funding from BD to support  its global efforts to reduce and address the  impact of COVID-19 on families in more  than 180 countries.
UNICEF and its partners  have reached over 2.75 billion people with COVID-19 prevention messaging around handwashing and  hygiene; more than 63.5 million people have benefited from its  critical water, sanitation and hygiene supplies; and 49.4 million  women and children have continued to rely on UNICEF for  pre- and post-natal care and essential nutritional supplies.
Supporting frontline health workers in four African nations “The donation from BD to  Last Mile Health   supported community and frontline health  workers in safely preventing, detecting and  responding to COVID-19 across four  countries in Africa,” said Lisha McCormick,  Chief Executive Officer, who explained that  Last Mile Health: • Supported Liberia’s Ministry of Health in designing and  delivering a comprehensive COVID-19 curriculum focused on  prevention measures, case detection and response and a  protocol for the “no touch” delivery of primary  healthcare services; • Distributed 2.4 million pieces of PPE across Liberia and  Malawi, to help health workers stay safe while continuing to  deliver essential primary care to patients living in remote  communities; and • Helped the Ministries of Health in Ethiopia and Uganda to  leverage digital tools to disseminate COVID-19 educational  and training resources to health workers and community  members, which have been viewed by more than 2,000  health sector professionals.Learn more about our philanthropic responses: • Our COVID-19 philanthropic response expands   to $2.8 million • Virtual COVID-19 trainings help HCPs in Papua   New Guinea • The impact of COVID-19 on community he alth centers • BD commits $1.1 million to global COVID-19   resp onse efforts • Reimagining community service in the age  of COVID-Throughout the pandemic, we will continue to create and deliver value to all our stakeholders, by  prioritizing the needs of our associates and customers around the world, while remaining focused on  our long-term strategy.
Further details can be found at the BD COVID-19 response webpage  and our video library .
Spotlight—COVID-We are committed to a strong ethics and compliance culture.
We do not tolerate actions or behaviors that are inconsistent  with our values or violate the BD Code of Conduct or applicable  laws and regulations.
All BD associates are responsible for  reinforcing our ethics and compliance culture and sustaining our  reputation as a company dedicated to quality and integrity.
We encourage and expect everyone at BD to speak up by asking  questions, raising concerns, seeking guidance and reporting  actual or suspected violations of laws, our Code of Conduct, our  policies or our high ethical standards.
This requirement extends  to all associates, vendors and other third parties working  on our behalf.The following BD Values further strengthen our culture of ethics  and compliance and guide how we hold ourselves accountable  to our shareholders and stakeholders.
• We do what is right.
• We thrive on innovation and demand quality.
• We are all accountable.
• We learn and improve every day.
• We help each other be great.
These values are cascaded through all levels of the organization.
Read more about our commitment to ethics and compliance on  our website .Ethics and complianceHow we do business The BD Code of Conduct sets the foundation for how we  behave at BD.
Our value “We do what is right” is the cornerstone  of our Code.
To do what is right, we follow the laws, rules and  company policies that apply to us.
We also follow the highest  ethical standards, even when there’s no specific law or policy.
Our Code provides guidance and resources to help us follow  through on these ethical standards and protect our reputation.
Everyone at BD, no matter their position or level, must follow our  Code.
This is a condition of employment at BD.
Our Code is  available in English and over 30 other languages.
Every BD  associate is required to complete annual training on our Code.
In addition to our Code, BD has a set of global policies and  standards, including our Global Standards for Interactions with Healthcare Providers, Health Care Organizations and  Government Officials, which are designed to ensure associates  have clear guidance on how to do what is right in the context of  their work for BD.
BD associates must comply with these global  standards, the Code, BD policies and procedures, applicable laws  and regulations and relevant industry codes (including  AdvaMed, APACMed, MedTech Europe, Mecomed and Abimed).
BD associates receive information and training about the Code,  global standards and other policies in several ways, including  periodic communications and trainings.
Associates can access  detailed information on our expectations through our intranet  and on our ethics and compliance mobile app.
Our Code of  Conduct is also available on our website .Code of ConductGRI disclosure: 102-GRI disclosure: 102-Except as prohibited by applicable law, BD associates are  obligated to report any suspected violations of laws, industry  codes, the BD Code of Conduct or BD policies in accordance  with the BD Global Speaking Up Policy.
BD takes all reports of  violations of laws, BD policies and ethical standards seriously  and will promptly, fairly and thoroughly investigate all such  reports.
BD does not tolerate any form of retaliation against any  person who in good faith reports an actual or suspected  violation.
BD is committed to creating an environment in which  all associates feel comfortable raising concerns, seeking  guidance or asking questions without fear of retaliation  or discipline.
Associates can report these in a number of ways, including via  the BD Ethics Helpline, which is independently operated and  available anywhere in the world 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Alternatively, associates may use our online reporting tool   where associates worldwide can make a report in their native  language from any computer or mobile device with internet  access.
The helpline provides translation services as needed,   and reports can be made anonymously where permitted by law.
Associates can also report violations to their supervisor,  management, Human Resources, the Law Group or directly   to Ethics and Compliance.
In FY 2020, the Ethics Office received more than 850 contacts  from associates worldwide seeking guidance or reporting  concerns.
Depending on the findings of the investigation, we  may take corrective action, such as discipline up to and  including termination of employment or providing  nondisciplinary-based training and process improvements in  areas where a gap has been identified.Reporting ethics concerns GRI disclosure: 102-BD does not engage a third-party intermediary to do something  BD or its associates are prohibited from doing.
The Ethics and  Compliance function provides resources to regional and local  country management to enhance their anticorruption and  compliance business practices.
This includes incorporating  compliance requirements into existing business practices   and advising local management on anticorruption   compliance-related issues.
A key focus for BD is driving compliance in our third-party  intermediary networks across the globe, resulting in stronger  business relationships while upholding our reputation.
These efforts are advanced by fostering collaboration with  business leaders to deliver consistent and clear policies and  approval processes—along with enhanced third-party life cycle  management procedures—to help provide assurance that BD is “doing business the right way.” BD is committed to training all  associates via both in-person, scenario-based sessions and  learning management system courses that leverage policy  materials, such as the Global Anti Bribery and Anti Corruption  Policy and the Global Standards for Interactions with Healthcare  Professionals, Healthcare Organizations and  Government Officials.
Risk-based training with third-party intermediaries is a core  component of the antibribery and anticorruption program.
These sessions are focused on applicable antibribery and  anticorruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act  and relevant BD policies.Antibribery and anticorruption GRI disclosures: 102-16, 205-We comply with all applicable laws and regulations that govern  the interactions between medical technology companies and  healthcare professionals, healthcare organizations and  government officials in the many countries in which we do  business.
To help ensure compliance, BD has adopted various  industry codes, including the Advanced Medical Technology  Association (AdvaMed) Code of Ethics in the United States and  MedTech Europe Code of Ethics.
BD associates receive  information and training about these codes in a few ways, including periodic communications, and online and in-person  trainings.
Associates can access detailed information on our  expectations through our intranet and our Ethics and  Compliance mobile app.
Key provisions of applicable industry  codes are also incorporated into various global policies,  including the Global Standards for Interactions with  Healthcare Professionals, Healthcare Organizations and  Government Officials.Interactions with healthcare professionals GRI disclosure: 102-16   SASB disclosure: HC-MS-510a.At BD, we are committed to operating in a way that respects the  human rights of all associates, as well as the people in our  supply chains, the communities in which we operate and those  who are impacted by our products.
Rather than doing the minimum required, BD is focused on  doing what is right.
This value, along with the rest of our values,  guide our efforts on having a positive social impact across our  businesses and operations.
Our commitment to human rights is guided by the principles  outlined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and extends  beyond BD processes and practices to those in our supply  chains.
This commitment is detailed in our Global Human  Rights Policy .
We believe that all people should be treated with dignity and  respect, and we are committed to conducting our business in a  manner consistent with this principle.
We comply with applicable employment and human rights laws  and regulations wherever we have operations; we expect our  suppliers to do the same.
BD has programs in place to monitor and advance human rights  efforts throughout the company.
These include: • Additional policies.
– BD Code of Conduct , which reinforces our commitment to     human rights and details how to report suspected violations     anywhere in our supply chain.
– BD Expectations for Suppliers , our Code of Conduct     designed for our thousands of suppliers.• Practices geared towards ensuring modern slavery and  human trafficking do not exist in our workforce and those of  our suppliers.
– We do not charge any of our associates recruitment fees,     and do not work with recruitment agencies that engage in     this practice.
– We do not withhold identity documents, immigration     documents or any other personal documentation of     our associates.
– We encourage our associates to report, without fear of     retaliation, any matters related to human trafficking,     modern slavery or any other human rights violations.
º  We provide BD associates with forced labor and human      trafficking training, developed by a third party and      administered online, to associates each year.
This course      interacts directly and indirectly with sourcing, managing,      advising on or is otherwise involved with our suppliers.
• Due diligence, including initial assessments of suppliers  against 12 risk factors (including ESG risk and desktop audits  of prioritized suppliers).
• Risk management efforts to ensure compliance against  related policies throughout our operations.
– For example, our Global Operations and Human Resources     teams work to ensure compliance with our policies     prohibiting forced labor, human trafficking and modern     slavery across all of our operations, including     manufacturing operations.
• Training and capacity building, both internally and for  key suppliers.
BD strives to continuously improve its programs to ensure  compliance with applicable laws and high ethical standards to  meet the expectations of our customers, shareholders,  associates, communities and other stakeholders.
More detail on our Supplier Human Rights Due Diligence process  can be found in the Efficiency  section of this report.Human rights In all of our operations:  • We provide a safe and healthy workplace for   our associates.
• We do not use child labor.
• We do not use forced, prison, indentured, bonded   or involuntary labor.
• We prohibit discrimination in our hiring and  employment practices.
• We prohibit physical abuse and harassment of  associates, as well as the threat of either.
• We support the freedom of association and the rights  of workers and employers to bargain collectively.
GRI disclosure: 412-For over 120 years, customers have relied on BD for safe,  effective products and services for patients around the world.
Our commitment to quality is at the core of what we do in  advancing the world of health ™ through innovation, instilling  confidence and trust in the reliability of what we bring to  market.
Quality is so integral to who we are at BD, it is  embedded in The BD WAY values, “We thrive on   innovation and demand quality.”  Inspire Quality is our renewed commitment to a culture of  quality that every BD associate shares around the world.
Inspire Quality brings to life our BD Quality Policy for our  associates, customers and shareholders through a multi-year  journey towards best-in-class quality.Inspire QualityEnsuring product safety At BD, we create value for our patients and customers through predictable delivery of differentiated, high-value products and  solutions.
We work relentlessly to develop solutions that advance healthcare and improve worker and patient safety.
Product safety is at the heart of how we design, manufacture and deliver products.
This section details some of that work.
Inspire Quality focuses on growing customer relationships  through trust, reliability and compliance with all applicable laws  and regulations within the countries we operate and sell  products.
With the acquisitions of Bard and CareFusion, we have  the opportunity to simplify our internal processes and  streamline our systems to enhance the customer experience,  reduce complexity and meet the expectations of regulatory and  oversight bodies.
Our Quality Policy   “We will consistently provide superior     products and services in pursuit of our     Purpose of advancing the world of     health™.
This will be achieved through     customer-focused continuous     improvement and maintaining an     effective quality system which complies     with regulatory requirements.”      Tom Polen      Chairman, CEO and President “Quality is at the heart of everything     we do across BD.
It is everyone’s     responsibility and one we take     seriously—from manufacturing, to     marketing and everyone in-between.
It is that culture-shift and mindset that     quality is everyone’s responsibility that     is so important because at BD, we are     inspired by the customers who use our     products to treat patients and enhance     and save lives.”      David Shan      EVP, Chief Quality OfficerAs a first step, we established tiered governance forums for  improved oversight of key quality, regulatory affairs, and  medical matters.
These enhanced systems will empower us,  together with our customers and regulators, to be more  proactive and transparent with quality matters by harnessing  the power of data-driven insights to address potential quality  deviations sooner and with greater accuracy.
This builds on our  philosophy of partnership, trust and transparency when it  comes to all product quality and patient safety matters.
Inspiring Quality in product development  We understand that patient safety depends on us delivering  only the highest quality products and services.
Quality at BD  starts with innovation and designing our products and services  with quality in mind.
Utilizing the Design for Six Sigma tools and  human factors engineering, we ingrain best practices within our  daily activities.
In FY 2020, we updated our risk management process to align  with ISO 14971:2019 to strengthen our product designs and  manufacturing processes to enable us to be more proactive and  predict potential product failures and implement controls to  prevent occurrences.
We performed design remediation activities on legacy products  to align with the changing global regulatory environment, such  as the E.U. MDR/IVDR, driving improvements in the safety and  efficacy of our older designs.
We operate in a complex and evolving world of regulations,  standards, and guidance documents governing the  development and market access for our products and services.
As we continue to expand our portfolio, we must evolve to  ensure we have robust regulatory submissions that comply with  the most current standards and industry expectations.
To that end, the Regulatory Affairs and Quality teams at BD  work together to ensure that our products and processes are  compliant with global laws, regulations, standards and policies.
The BD standards management process links our business units,  functional, and regional colleagues to monitor new and  updated regulations and standards worldwide that may impact  BD products and processes.
The global teams have expertise in  quality, regulatory affairs, research and development,  manufacturing, cybersecurity, sterilization, environmental health  and safety, and medical affairs.
When changes are identified, the cross functional and global  teams assess the impact of the new requirements against our  current processes.
Once gaps are identified, plans are put in  place to ensure necessary remediation can be made within a  defined time frame.
Compliance plans are implemented across  BD facilities worldwide and built into our product life  cycle process.BD associates around the world engage in meaningful dialog  with regulators, standards development organizations,  collaborative communities, and trade associations to seek better  understanding, harmonization, and improvements in regulatory  requirements that impact BD, our customers and patients who  use our products.
At BD, we are also empowering cross functional teams within  each business unit and region to drive accountability for  incorporating new requirements from standards and regulations  into our new product development process as well as legacy  products, re-baselining historical regulatory submissions for  products that have evolved over time and enabling future  innovation by refreshing product data on file with regulatory  authorities.
In addition to working on significant initiatives like  compliance with new E.U. regulations, we are also focusing on  countries that have seen significant changes to their  regulatory framework.
Through this effort we are driving registration excellence by  adopting a structured approach to conducting risk assessments,  identifying gaps, remediating, and ultimately updating our  regulatory filings.
We are also working toward digitizing our  registration processes and content management to enable  efficient global registrations that will impact public health.Inspiring Quality in registration excellence We are driven to manufacture high-quality products and to help  maintain safety for our customers.
BD monitors the quality of  our products using quality tools, including statistical trends of  quality control data, automated high-speed inspection and  manufacturing execution systems (MES) data monitoring.
We perform incoming, in-process and final inspections of our  products.
Having real-time inspections and monitoring allows   us to monitor for potential issues and react quickly when  they occur.
At BD, we believe quality is everyone’s responsibility, and our  approximately 48,000 global manufacturing associates take  that responsibility seriously.
Associates are empowered and  encouraged by management, as part of our “speak up/listen up”  culture, to stop production if they see anything off with a  product regardless of their role or the stage of product  production.
The product can be halted on the manufacturing  line or prior to distribution.
This cultural mindset of associate  empowerment and having the mechanisms in place to stop the  product before it reaches a customer or patient, prioritizes  quality and safety.
We are rolling out a single, unified operating system, the BD  Production System (BDPS), as a framework for global  operational excellence.
This new way of working proactively  standardizes and systematizes daily operations, emphasizing   a Zero Loss mindset and culture: working safely every day to  effectively deliver high-quality products on time.
The BDPS  fosters goal alignment and drives performance accountability  across functions and at every level of the organization.
It engages the talents of all associates through highly  collaborative cross-functional teams that are focused on   solving the root cause of problems using a systemic approach.
The BDPS is active in nearly 90% of our worldwide manufacturing  sites with active expansion into the European and North American  distribution centers.
In the midst of the global COVID-19 pandemic, quality  remained at the forefront as we continued to operate our global  manufacturing and distribution centers, with the vast majority  of the critical-to-COVID sites operating at or near full capacity.
We instituted preventative pandemic precautions at facilities to protect employees, including increasing cleaning protocols,   implementing temperature screenings for on-site employees,  deploying PPE to on-site associates and field workers,  implementing social distancing in our facilities, supporting  remote work for all associates who are able, suspending travel  and group meetings, limiting on-site visitors, and regularly  educating associates about good hygiene and health practices.
We continue to enforce our pandemic protocols and measures  within our facilities to maintain the health and safety of our  associates, while ensuring business continuity and maintaining  a high level of quality for our customers.
Further details on our response to the pandemic can be found in  the COVID -19 section .Inspiring Quality in manufacturing “We understand the responsibility we     hold as the world’s largest     manufacturer of injection devices.
Our leadership position prompted our     early response to the COVID-19     crisis—rapidly scaling up our     manufacturing operations, without     sacrificing quality or associate safety.
We proactively took this initiative so     that once the COVID-19 vaccine     became available, BD syringes and     needles would be ready.
We are     committed to enabling healthcare     providers to deliver the best possible     patient care, which includes meeting     the critical need for vaccinations.”     Alexandre Conroy      EVP, Integrated Supply Chain Quality management systems In order to meet our customer needs and regulatory  requirements, we maintain Quality Management System (QMS)  Certifications across our BD facilities.
In order to drive continuous improvement in our quality systems,  our corporate auditing program independently assesses  compliance to quality and regulatory standards and our internal  processes, including complaint management, production and  process controls, design controls, and corrective and preventive  actions (CAPA).
Each of our businesses and regional sites fulfill  local regulatory requirements for performing internal quality  audits and develop action plans to address all relevant audit  observations.
We adapted this program in FY 2020 to perform  virtual audits as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, enabling  continued compliance assessments and maintaining continuous  improvement momentum.
Quality culture Our commitment to quality is driven by a culture of quality that  all associates across BD share through our BD Value, “We thrive  on innovation and demand quality.” Beginning in FY 2020, we  took steps to strengthen our culture of quality to ensure that all  associates, regardless of function, are trained on the importance  of quality in their daily activities.
Annual training is provided via  our online compliance tool and supplemented by in-person  training.
We also introduced virtual customer contact messaging  at our manufacturing facilities, allowing associates to hear   stories from patients whose lives have been impacted by BD  products they manufacture.
In November 2020, we demonstrated this renewed  commitment to quality across BD by expanding our traditional  “Quality Day” with global events throughout the month of  November to a larger “Quality Week” with a series of global live  and virtual events, awards, engagement forums and  philanthropic opportunities.
Our celebration of quality solidified  the organizational commitment we are making to quality and  the inspirational journey we are on to inspire quality through the  degree of excellence in everything we do.
A strong supplier quality program is key to ensuring that BD  products meet the highest standards of quality.
The Quality  function partners with Global Procurement to ensure that  appropriate systems and controls are in place to select, qualify  and monitor suppliers.
Key aspects of the program include  qualification of suppliers based on risk, auditing and monitoring supplier performance and managing supplier changes.
In 2020,  BD implemented a Supplier Change Portal that enables  suppliers to directly communicate potential changes to BD.
This portal is also used as a means for BD to communicate back  to suppliers.
This tool has greatly improved communication and  visibility of supplier changes.Inspiring Quality through our suppliers Inspiring Quality through continuous improvement “As part of our Inspire Quality journey,     we are focused on simplification and     reducing complexity of our Quality     Management Systems (QMS) by     consolidating and launching a unified     QMS.
This change, which we are     deploying in FY 2021, will enable us to     function as One BD to our customers,     be more agile as a corporation and     [make it] easier for our customers to do     business with us.
Quality is the     foundation of customer and patient     trust and a unified QMS will take us one     step closer towards being a best-in-     class quality organization.”     Jerry Porreca      SVP, Quality, Interventional and Inspire Quality SponsorCertifications at manufacturing, design, distribution and shared service sites.ISO13485;   99 sitesISO 17025; 2 sitesISO 9001; 23 sites Inspiring Quality in industry We are committed to enabling healthcare providers to deliver  the best possible patient care.
We work closely with  organizations and trade associations outside of BD to   drive quality and shape the external environment through  industry-wide standards and initiatives consistent with our   Purpose of advancing with world of health ™.
We actively support the creation and harmonization of  standards at both a national and international level.
Through  participation in standard development work groups, such as ISO  standard development through national organizations like the  Association for the Advancement of Medical   Instrumentation  (AAMI ), we help improve performance and  product compatibility around the world.
Our executive vice president, general counsel, public policy &  regulatory affairs serves on the Medical Device Innovation  Consortium (MDIC)  Board of Directors.
We are also involved in the MDIC Case for Quality Collaborative  Community (CfQcc), the National Evaluation System for Health  Technology Coordinating Center (NESTcc) and the  Cybersecurity Program.
Through an educational grant, BD provides funds and clinical  reviewers for the Infusion Nurses Society (INS)  development  update to the  Infusion Therapy Standard of Practice .
This publication defines and develops organizational   infusion-based policies and procedures for all healthcare  practice settings.
In collaboration with the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of  America (SHEA), BD launched the Prevention Course in  Healthcare-Acquired Infections (HAI) Knowledge and Control.
This online course was developed with frontline staff in mind  and allowed course participants to review the fundamentals of  infection prevention, review best practices for the prevention of  device-and pathogen-associated infections and improve  understanding of disinfection and sterilization procedures.“Behind each and every product and     service we deliver is an engaged BD     associate who is committed to doing     the right thing and delivering quality     each and every day.
Our culture of     quality is essential for building the     foundation of customer and patient     trust and the reliability and consistency     expected of BD products.
We are so proud of our associates for     embracing our “speak up/listen up”     culture of quality and making their     voices heard when it comes to potential     quality matters.
Thank you to all our     BD associates for putting quality first.”     Betty Larson      EVP, Chief Human Resources Officer “We at BD have a responsibility as a     leading manufacturer of quality     products to have a seat at the table in     the quality professional’s industry.
Our voice can be powerful and influential,     sharing best practices, driving     innovation in quality management,     educating and advancing awareness of     our industry and value to organizations.
The perception of the quality function     is changing thanks to the engaged     professionals who are moving us     collectively forward.”     Adrienne Brott      VP, Global Quality Management, Central Quality In order to ensure that we continue to provide high-quality  products and services, each BD business unit monitors product  performance, identifying early warning signs of potential quality  issues.
Under Inspire Quality, each business unit has established  plans to proactively eliminate the potential root causes of  internally identified nonconformances to continually improve  our processes and products.
Additionally, each business unit has  performed a “deep dive” into the root causes of our recalls and near misses to identify projects to reduce the recurrence of  recalls for similar issues across the company.
Each year, BD establishes business-wide key driver goals (KDGs)  shared across the company, by all functions.
In FY 2020, BD  prioritized improving quality with multiple targeted KDGs   in the areas of customer experience, product quality  performance, complaint and adverse reporting and  compliance to regulations.
Post-market surveillanceKey quality indicatorsProduct performance SASB disclosures: HC-MS-250a.2; HC-MS-250a.3; HC-MS-250a.4FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Number of inspections by worldwide regulatory agencies 27 34 Percentage with zero observations 74% 59% 81% Number of FDA inspections 18 15 6* Percentage with zero observations 72% 73% 50% Number of FDA Warning Letters received 2 0 Number of FDA Warning Letters resolved 0 1 Number of corporate audits 20 35 Number of FDA Class I recalls 1 4 10** * FDA Inspections were reduced due to the COIVD-19 Pandemic   ** Increase in FDA Class I recalls in FY 2020 (7 of 10) related to BD Alaris System.
GRI disclosure: 416-2   SASB disclosures: HC-MS-250a.1; HC-MS-250a.“We do what is right” is one of our core values.
When an issue  has been identified, initiating a field action, such as recalling a  product from the marketplace, is the right thing to do for  patients and end users.
Post Market Surveillance (PMS) is a key  Quality and Regulatory requirement for the medical device  industry.
It provides how a medical device company becomes  aware and monitors actual device-related events (complaints)  associated with the commercialized product.
Part of PMS  involves medical safety’s support to assess the level or severity  of harm that may have or could have occurred with the  particular event.
Each business unit in BD has a Field Action Committee (FAC),  which convenes when necessary to evaluate concerns with the  quality, safety or regulatory compliance of a product in the market.
The FACs consist of leaders from Quality, Medical  Affairs and Regulatory Affairs who determine, independent of  commercial considerations, whether actions need to be taken to  correct or recall a product from the market.
Patient safety takes  priority over any other factor in this decision-making process.
We continue to implement corrective actions to address recalls  on BD products .
In line with its obligations to regulators, BD  reports all necessary data relating to cases where any of its  devices may have  caused or contributed to a death or serious  injury.
This information is available in the FDA’s Manufacturer  and User Facility Device Experience database (MAUDE) .
Additionally, a list of BD products in the FDA’s MedWatch   Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products is available on the  FDA website .
Medical Affairs is a human health focused organization serving as  the bridge between the clinical practice of medicine and BD.
The  organization consists of a team of experts with hands-on clinical  experience across a range of medical areas and specialties.
This  clinical expertise is leveraged to understand and evaluate how our  products work in the clinical settings where they are used.
This  includes understanding unmet medical needs—translating these  insights into innovation—and determining the evidence needs  that define the clinical value of our products.
It also includes  communicating the evidence that defines our products through  conversations, publications and presentations.
Being the only  organization at BD that consists of clinicians with a clinical remit,  the Medical Affairs organization is also responsible for oversight  of the safety of human subjects when conducting research and  evaluating any product issues that may threaten the health and  well-being of those who use our products.
As part of the BD Inspire Quality initiative, Global Medical Safety  and Governance is involved in restructuring how Medical Affairs  will support Quality, specifically, product risk management file  review and approvals across BD.
This is fundamental to ensuring  consistent product benefit-risk assessments throughout the BD  portfolio of products.
The Global Medical Safety and Governance (GMS&G)  Organization is a dedicated and specialized independent medical  safety organization that maintains a constant and proactive  monitoring process that encourages a consistent and efficient  means for product safety and as well as Quality, Regulatory, and  Ethics & Compliance alignment.
It also provides a neutral and  independent assessment and objective means for escalation,  independent of the BD business unit.
Safety-signal detection has always been an important  “quantitative” element from a Quality perspective.
GMS&G  provides a “qualitative” medical assessment that adds another  layer of surveillance.
This includes using tools that allow for  custom queries and reports, FDA MAUDE database reviews as  well as Natural Language Processing or “Word Cloud” technology  that allows for search and trending of key risk terms from within  the BD complaint database.
The data analytics from these tools  are reviewed on a regular basis and are part of the Medical Safety  Review Board.
A Medical Affairs Safety Council (MASC) was established in   FY 2020 as a forum that could be used for specific issues that  would benefit from an independent medical review.
The MASC is  led by the VP of Global Medical Safety and Governance (GMS&G)  and includes the EVP and chief medical officer along with the VP  of Medical Affairs from each business unit.Medical Affairs While we have implemented, and continue to improve upon,  programs and management systems around product quality  and safety, we are, on occasion, subject to enforcement action.
For a description of certain enforcement matters see our Form  10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2021 and our  subsequent SEC filings .
Enforcement action GRI disclosure: 416-2   SASB disclosure: HC-MS-250a.Quality and Regulatory compliance Our Quality and related Regulatory Compliance strategies are  based on principles of prevention, speak up culture and Find It  Once – Fix It Everywhere.
Any known non-compliances are  resolved through rigorous CAPA processes.
The Corporate Quality Audit (CQA) Program provides  independent assessment of BD entities to identify compliance  and product quality risk areas and drive holistic remediations.
The Corporate Quality Audit Program uses experienced BD  auditors as well as subject matter experts/consultants to ensure  robust reviews.
The audit findings are shared across BD and  assessed for similar weakness in the Quality System.
A Quality Audit Network (QAN) of all auditors across BD meets  regularly to share best practices and audit trends.
These  meetings also serve as a platform for educational programs to  continuously improve auditor skills.Good quality performance is rewarded through awards such as  Becton Award for continuous improvement, CAPA Award for  excellence in CAPA and First Pass Award for robust audit actions.
These awards are communicated through various channels,  including the BD intranet as well as town hall meetings.
Quality  metrics and strategic milestones are included in the BD  incentive program.
Quality and compliance metrics with target goals are instituted  at all sites, business units and regions and are monitored  routinely.
Any trends or missing goals are escalated to higher  levels of management so that timely actions can be taken to  bring performance metrics back to target levels.
Quality Metrics  and trends are reviewed regularly at cross-functional forums  that ensure focus on regulatory compliance and product quality.
Selecting materials A key part of our product development program is the selection  of the right materials that ensure patient safety, device  functional performance and continuity of the device to the  healthcare market.
There are five criteria that are considered  when selecting materials for any of our devices: • What is critical to the function of the product?
• What is critical to the manufacturability of the product?
• What is critical to the quality of the product?
• What is critical to compliance with regulation?
• What is critical to business requirements?
Once required material properties have been established,  potential materials can be identified for feasibility studies.
These studies evaluate characteristics that include chemical, toxicological, physical and mechanical properties.
All materials  are rigorously evaluated for safety and suitability for their  intended clinical application.
This includes qualification against  national and international standards for biological safety (e.g.,  ISO 10993 and U.S. FDA guidance on same [2016]) and  compliance with U.S. and international regulations for biological  (patient) safety.
Materials are also subject to re-evaluation under conditions as  defined in these standards and regulations, for example, upon  any change in source or specification.
All materials are subject  to our established controls with respect to formulation  continuity and ongoing quality conformance.
For each of the critical areas, probing questions are  asked to develop the critical material property  requirements to ensure patient safety, functional  performance and continuity to the healthcare  market.
For example: Critical to function:    Who is the end user?
What critical material properties will  enable function?
Critical to manufacturability:    What manufacturing processes will be used?
What sterilization  method is necessary to ensure sterility?
Critical to quality:    What properties need to be monitored/measured to ensure the  product performs consistently?
Critical to compliance :   What regulatory requirements must the product comply with?
Critical to business requirements:    Are there constraints on cost or supplier?
What options are  available for second sources?
Our Materials of Concern (MOC) list guides the way we address  the reduction of MOC across our portfolio.
The list contains both  regulated and nonregulated substances that we consider to be  of concern and is updated twice a year.
It includes substances  the company has put special emphasis on—for example, PVC  and phthalates—and those that BD has chosen to avoid and/or  reduce from its products and packaging.
BD carefully considers the potential impact of the materials we  use in our products and packaging and reviews customer  preferences related to chemicals of concern in finished goods.
In order to monitor the changing landscape around chemicals  of high concern among customers, regulatory bodies and  advocacy groups, BD established a Chemical Review Board in  2013.
This internal board, led by our director of Global Product  Stewardship, includes representation from R&D for each of   our business units and functional expertise from toxicology   and procurement.
This group is equipped to evaluate the feasibility of alternative  materials, provide guidance to R&D within the company and  leverage material expertise across the organization to accelerate  our work to reduce priority MOC from the portfolio.
At the corporate level, BD has a Global Product Stewardship  function, led by a director of Global Product Stewardship and  director of Global Product Stewardship Compliance.
The Global Product Stewardship function reports to the VP of Environment,  Health & Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S); the VP EHS&S  reports to the company’s executive VP Integrated Supply Chain.
The Global Product Stewardship team is in place to monitor  changing global environmental regulations affecting our  product portfolio (including chemicals of high concern) and  provide governance over compliance activities carried out by our  business units.
The Global Product Stewardship team also  administers our system of collecting information from suppliers  through a dedicated team of supply base compliance  associates.
The team also maintains our MOC list and owns the  central database used to manage chemical information at the  product portfolio level.
The Global Product Stewardship team, and in turn our EHS&S  function, is accountable for the company’s overall system of  chemicals management.
They are responsible for governance  over compliance with product environmental regulations, such  as REACH and RoHS.
Our MOC list and materials for suppliers are available on the  Supplier Resources page on our website .
SASB disclosure: HC-MS-410a.1Management of Materials of Concern Laboratory animal welfare: Ensuring patient safety for human and veterinary patients BD continues to build its product portfolio that includes a  variety of medical devices, diagnostics, biotechnology and  pharmaceuticals.
Products in this sector must meet very  stringent requirements to demonstrate safety, efficacy and  suitability for their intended use.
As part of this work of ensuring  ultimate patient safety, existing regulations and standards  require the use of laboratory animals in research and   product evaluation.
BD is committed to animal welfare and uses recognized leading  standards to ensure best animal care practices.
Good animal  welfare leads to good scientific data in support of product  safety.
Every required study must first be approved by an ethics  committee known as the Institutional Animal Care and Use  Committee (IACUC).
This ethics committee is comprised of  veterinarians, scientists, animal care teams and a member of  the community to represent general public opinion.
The IACUC  ensures responsible use of BD research animals in consideration  of the 4Rs: Replacement, Refinement, Reduction and  Retirement.
BD continues to support refinement by veterinary gold standard  practice across all animal studies; replacement by using in vitro  testing if and when possible; reduction of animal numbers by  extensive literature reviews of previous studies; and an active  retirement program that has provided adoption opportunities to  BD research animal heroes.
BD continues to build transparency of the Research Animal  Programs under the BD corporate policy guidance on the  humane and responsible use of research animals signed by  senior management.
The policy is available to the public   on bd.com .
The Animal Welfare Policy and Oversight  Committee is defined within this policy and is comprised of  global members that work to support BD animal research.
This group meets regularly to share best practices and examples  of the 4Rs across programs.
BD supports membership to the National Association of  Biomedical Research and the European Animal Research  Association to help educate the public about the importance of  laboratory animal research and seek collaboration on best  practices.
The BD Biosciences facility in Tatabanya, Hungary is  one of the front runners to support animal research  transparency in Hungary.
The site has hosted local round table  discussions to share information about their operation and to  provide local teams the opportunity to visit its facility to learn  about their animal research program.
The BD Research Animal Program is supported by a team of  research animal care professionals that are highly committed to  animal welfare through daily welfare assessments, animal  training programs and novel environmental enrichment  opportunities.
The BD Research Animal Program actively  publishes best practices and techniques in the global animal  research community.
We require that all third parties who carry out animal testing on  our behalf are covered by our Expectations for Suppliers (EFS) and  our company policy.
We preferentially use American Association  for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC)-accredited  third parties but have made exceptions when other qualification  information is considered sufficient and if unique expertise limits  options.
Even in the latter case, the BD Animal Research Program  performs full supplier animal welfare and care audits to ensure  sound animal welfare among animal vendors and suppliers, and  adherence to our EFS and content of our policy.
BD will continue to host a BRAD (Biomedical Research  Awareness Day) event each year as part of an international  effort to celebrate the contributions of research animals in  biomedical research.
This effort helps to further educate the BD  community on the significant, lifesaving medical contributions  research animals have made to improve both human and  veterinary medicine.
BD is committed to honoring the  contributions of animal research and ensuring our medical  devices are safe for veterinary, as well as human use.
Replacement ReﬁnementReduction Retirementby in vitro  testing, liter ature review use appr oaches that r educe or  eliminate the potential f or pain  and distr essuse minimal number  of animals to achie ve  scientiﬁc r esults utilizing an appr oved  program to adopt out  retired labor atory  animals with attending  veterinarian guidanc e4Rs Global Clinical Affairs Clinical studies are carried out by a central function within  Medical Affairs, serving all BD businesses and regions.
The VP,  Global Clinical Affairs (GCA) reports directly to the company’s  Executive VP and Chief Medical Officer and has overall  responsibility for clinical studies.
The VP GCA is responsible for ensuring clinical studies are  carried out in an ethical manner and in adherence to Good  Clinical Practice (GCP).
In addition, an independent Ethics  Committee/Institutional Review Board (EC/IRB) reviews all  studies and has the authority to approve, modify or stop a study  at any time.
Prior to the start of each study, a risk assessment is carried out  by the GCA study team and representatives from the Medical  Affairs Quality team.
The risk assessment is shared with the EC/ IRB and any oversight bodies, such as a clinical event  committee, and regulatory agencies where applicable.
Identified risks are assessed during the study on an ongoing  basis, by examination of adverse events or other factors.
Free and informed consent is obtained from all study  participants prior to the start of each study.
Consent is obtained  by the study site principal investigator and designees, as per site  procedures.
The names and contact information of the study  site’s principal investigator and the EC/IRB are provided to each  study participant in written form, usually by listing this  information in the subject’s Informed Consent.
Participants are  encouraged to reach out to either of these contacts if they have  questions or concerns about the study.
Extensive training in BD policies related to human subject  research and in GCA’s formal Quality System, consisting of  standard operating procedures (SOPs) and work instructions, is  required of all BD associates who engage in clinical study activities.
This training occurs via course and procedure review  via the BD online training system, as well as through direct  education during study team meetings.
BD clinical studies are conducted in regions where ethical and  competent clinical research teams are located.
The Medical  Affairs and GCA teams have decision-making responsibilities in  this area.
However, the locations of the teams may vary from  where products are ultimately marketed.
In accordance with the GCA’s SOPs, a formal Monitoring Plan is  written for each study.
This plan defines the method and timing  by which BD associates maintain oversight of each study site.
Clinical study monitoring may occur through frequent  communications via phone and email, and multiple visits to the  site.
The site and its principal investigator are qualified for  participation by GCA procedures.
Compliance to the study  protocol and GCP, especially related to safety issues, is reviewed  regularly by reviewing the medical record and study database  for each site participant.
In addition, external audits are conducted using selected  high-risk studies by BD auditors external to the GCA team.
All studies are registered on public databases (such as  clinicaltrials.gov ), as required by U.S. Federal law.
This includes  information about the study protocol, clinical study sites, and  eventually, adverse events and other study results.
Reporting on  significant problems discovered during monitoring, deviations to  the protocol and necessary corrective actions are reported to  the responsible EC/IRB and, when required, to the regulatory  agency (e.g., FDA) with jurisdiction.
View our clinical trial publication policy .
Product marketing BD has policies and procedures to ensure the advertising and  promotion of our products, solutions and services comply with  applicable laws and regulations.
Our advertising and promotions  programs serve to create a globally harmonized process for  generating, reviewing and approving advertising and  promotional communications.
This program ensures consistency  in definitions, rules, principles, governance and approval criteria  to enable consistent compliance across BD.
Our advertising and  promotion review and approval processes are overseen by a  steering committee consisting of cross-functional  representatives from each business unit, including Marketing,  Medical Affairs, Regulatory Affairs and Legal.
Our global policy on advertising and promotion prohibits the  development and distribution of advertising and promotional  materials that have not been approved under the structure set  out in the policy.
This policy is supported by procedures that outline how material is reviewed and approved, and systems  used to manage and track approvals.
All policies outline the obligation to report noncompliance, how  associates can do this, including via the BD Ethics Helpline, and  potential disciplinary action that could be taken for noncompliance.
Finally, expectations around the promotion of our products are  laid out in our Code of Conduct.
All associates who are involved in the creation, review and  approval of advertising and promotional material are required  to complete annual training via the BD online training system.
Training covers BD policies and procedures, as well as our  systems used to manage and track approvals.
In addition,  topic-specific training is provided throughout the year.
Information regarding interactions with healthcare  professionals can be found in the How We Do Business    section of this report.
SASB disclosure: HC-MS-270a.Cybersecurity Security   by design Security   in use Security   through  partnershipOur commitment to cybersecurity includes the protection and  resilience of our products, manufacturing and IT.
We strive to  meet high security standards so our customers can focus on  what matters most: caring for patients.
Cybersecurity program BD Information Security is part of the company’s Risk  Management organization and is responsible for global strategy across the company’s enterprise, IT, manufacturing systems and  product offerings.
This includes cybersecurity strategy and  governance (including cybersecurity policies, procedures and  compliance); security operations (including incident response,  investigations, monitoring and detection, as well as vulnerability  and threat intel); security engineering (including security  architecture, testing and research and solutions management);  product security; and regional cybersecurity.
BD products and systems are designed to be secure and are developed  using industry-leading cybersecurity standards, including those from ISO  and NIST.
BD products and systems are secured and maintained throughout their  intended life cycle, across all technologies and sites.
BD maintains a culture of transparency and collaboration with customers  and industry stakeholders to establish industry best practices.Our cybersecurity program incorporates: BD utilizes a framework to incorporate cybersecurity into our processes for product design, manufacturing, customer support and  enterprise systems.
Our framework has been aligned to various industry work products including the HSCC Med Tech Joint Security  Plan, NIST Cybersecurity Framework, ISO 27001, UL 2900, and ISA 62443.
Our cybersecurity program includes regular internal and external  security audits and vulnerability assessments; penetration  testing of the company’s systems, products and practices;  threat intelligence investigations; and vulnerability and incident  management.
We also leverage threat modeling to uncover and  examine potential cybersecurity risks during the design process  and beyond.
In addition, we provide cybersecurity awareness training to our  70,000 associates, comprised of online cybersecurity training  modules; in-person and virtual cybersecurity bootcamp classes;  contextual phishing simulation exercises; mock incident  response exercises; and intranet resources aimed at enhancing  associates’ ongoing cyber awareness.
Transparency and collaboration with customers While we maintain robust security protocols, we also recognize  that new security threats in the healthcare industry emerge  continually.
That is why we believe transparency and  collaboration are essential.
In 2020, we launched the BD Cybersecurity Trust Center   where customers can learn more about our cybersecurity  program and access product security bulletins and patches,  along with product security white papers, which include  Manufacturer Disclosure Statement for Medical Device   Security (MDS2) attestations.
Customers, security researchers,  third-party component vendors and other external groups can  also report a product security concern, incident or vulnerability  to BD through the Cybersecurity Trust Center.
We recognize that systems and threats evolve continuously,   and no system can be protected against all vulnerabilities.
That’s why vulnerability disclosure is essential.
When a potential  vulnerability or incident is uncovered or reported to BD, we work  to identify vulnerable IT systems and products, examine them,  develop and validate compensating controls and/or security updates (as needed), and disclose our findings publicly,  equipping customers with the information they need to manage  potential risks properly.
For maximum awareness, BD voluntarily  reports coordinated vulnerability disclosures to the U.S. Food &  Drug Administration (FDA)  and Information Sharing Analysis  Organizations (ISAO) where BD participates—including the U.S.  Department of Homeland Security Cybersecurity &  Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA)  and the Health  Information Sharing and Analysis Center (H-ISAC) —and  publishes them to the BD Cybersecurity Trust Center.
In addition to product security bulletins and patches, customers  can also access third-party certifications and attestations  through the BD Cybersecurity Trust Center.
Our cybersecurity  programs and policies for products have been evaluated by the  Underwriters Laboratories Cybersecurity Assurance Program (UL  CAP), affording BD an independently audited certification that  demonstrates the cybersecurity of medical device products  through a rigorous program of analysis.
UL CAP cybersecurity  testing is extensive and challenges BD products against known BD Cybersecurity framework cybersecurity vulnerabilities, malware, malformed input (fuzz  testing), structured penetration, static source code analysis,  static binary and bytecode analysis and verification of security  controls (access control, user authentication and authorization,  remote communication, cryptography and software updates).
Two BD products, the BD FACSLyric ™ Flow Cytometer and the BD  Synapsys ™ Microbiology Informatics Solution, were among the first  medical devices to earn UL CAP certification, with additional  evaluations underway.BD also maintains a SOC2+ program for multiple BD products  and systems that collect and process patient health information  in accordance with the Health Insurance Portability and  Accountability Act (HIPAA).
These annual audits address the  Trust Principles for Security and (for our cloud-based products)  Availability.
SOC2+ reports are prepared by an independent  third party and provide assurance regarding the operational  effectiveness of BD internal controls and the security of BD  products.
UL CAP and SOC2+ reports are available to customers  upon request via the BD Cybersecurity Trust Center.
Cybersecurity and COVID-In 2020, our cybersecurity strategy helped to enable the company’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
We expanded secure connectivity options for the BD Veritor ™ Plus System, which is an antigen-based  point-of-care device granted Emergency Use Authorization by the FDA to perform SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic  testing.
We also enabled encrypted reporting capabilities for BD Synapsys ™, an integrated informatics solution.
The BD Synapsys ™ Solution unifies instrument-read COVID-19 test results from the BD Veritor ™ Plus System  and the BD MAX ™ System.
The BD MAX ™ System is a fully integrated, automated PCR-based molecular  platform also granted Emergency Use Authorization by the FDA to perform SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic testing.
Once the data is aggregated in the BD Synapsys ™ Solution, customers who enable the solution’s optional  reporting capabilities can create encrypted reports, simplifying compliance requirements and reducing   the need for manual reporting.
Improving cybersecurity through partnership We believe industry collaboration makes us stronger and,  likewise, enhances healthcare cybersecurity.
The partnerships  below exemplify industry engagements from 2020 that helped  us further improve our cybersecurity practices at BD while also  advancing cybersecurity maturity across the industry.
Operation Warp Speed (OWS) —OWS was a public-private  partnership initiated by the U.S. government in 2020 for the  purpose of producing and delivering 300 million coronavirus  vaccine doses across the U.S. Our participation with this  multiagency initiative helped to strengthen our threat intel and  bolster manufacturing cybersecurity while also guarding against  increased cyberactivity related to the vaccine effort.
U.S. Department of Homeland Security Cybersecurity &  Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) —CISA offers in-depth  cybersecurity resources for U.S.-based organizations, including  those in the healthcare and public health sector.
Following our  involvement with OWS, CISA engaged with BD on several  initiatives including assessments, reviews and preparedness  exercises.
CISA also performed an evaluation of our phishing simulation program to help us assess our cybersecurity  awareness training for BD associates.
The International Medical Device Regulators’ Forum  (IMDRF) —The IMDRF published Principles and Practices for  Medical Device Cybersecurity  in March 2020.
BD is a member  of the IMDRF Cybersecurity Working Group, which calls for  greater transparency around third-party software labeling, as  well as device end of life (EoL) and end of support (EoS).
The Medical Device Innovation Consortium (MDIC) —The  MDIC Cybersecurity Steering Committee, chaired by BD Vice  President and Chief Information Security Officer, Rob Suárez, is  working to develop a maturity model benchmark based on the  Healthcare and Public Health Sector Coordinating Council  (HSCC) Med Tech Joint Security Plan (JSP) .
BD also  contributed to the development of the MDIC’s Threat Modeling  Playbook, authored by the MITRE Corporation, and helps  facilitate the MDIC’s Medical Device Cybersecurity Threat  Modeling Bootcamp .
To learn more about our engagement with cybersecurity working groups in healthcare, read our inaugural Cybersecurity Annual  Report .
Released in 2020, this report highlights our engagement with cybersecurity working groups in healthcare and updates  stakeholders on BD cybersecurity practices.
For more information about our cybersecurity program, visit the BD Cybersecurity Trust Center .
Sterilization Medical device sterilization is essential to a functioning and  effective healthcare system.
Sterilization protects patients from  the risks of infectious diseases caused by bacteria, viruses and  fungi.
At BD, we use a variety of methods to safely sterilize our  products, including ethylene oxide (or “EtO”), gamma radiation,  e-beam and moist heat.
The appropriate method of sterilization depends on a variety   of factors.
For example, a large number of devices can be  damaged by moist heat, radiation and other modes of  sterilization, making EtO the only practical sterilization option  for those devices.
Further, viable sterilization methods must not  only ensure the safety of devices, but they must also provide the  ongoing capacity and scale required to process the billions of medical devices needed by patients in today’s modern  healthcare systems.
For these reasons and others,   EtO sterilization is the method used for approximately 50%   of our company’s sterile devices.
We recognize the responsibility we have to safely use all modes  of sterilization in our operations.
That is why for decades,   BD has invested in emission control technologies, process safety  controls, as well as subject matter expertise in process safety  engineering, environmental engineering, radiation safety,  industrial hygiene, sterility assurance and other disciplines.
Our environmental health and safety (EHS) standards ensure  that all BD sterilization facilities are designed and operate with   a high level of process safety and environmental controls.
U.S. FDA Innovation Challenge In FY 2019, BD was selected as a participant in the U.S. FDA’s  two-part innovation challenge to: 1) identify new sterilization  methods and technologies as alternatives to EtO, and 2) reduce  EtO emissions.
We were one of 12 accepted proposals out of 46  applicants, for our submission under part 2 of the challenge, to  reduce EtO emissions.
The FDA’s selection of our proposal into  the program marks a critical step in our ongoing partnership  with the FDA.
It demonstrates the company’s commitment to improve upon  and ensure the continued safe use of EtO, and to investigate  alternative work practices that will provide the same sterility  assurance and result in the same device performance, at the  scale required.
Under this program, BD has completed submissions to  regulatory agencies for an optimized sterilization cycle for our  sterilization facilities in Georgia in the U.S. We received FDA approval for use of this optimized cycle in a number of product  families in August 2020.
We also completed the installation and  commissioning of additional emission control systems at our  Georgia sterilization facilities to control fugitive emissions from  the process.
This new application of emission control technology  makes them among the industry’s most effectively controlled  EtO sterilization facilities.
Until there is a safe and effective replacement for EtO, BD will  continue to pursue our goal to reduce the amount of EtO used  and minimize emissions from the process.
Optimizing EtO  sterilization cycles, evaluating new device packaging  configurations and evaluating new approaches to validation are  examples of possible ways to minimize the amount of EtO used  in the sterilization process.
We are also actively looking at  alternate sterilization modalities, taking into consideration  product performance, sterility assurance, regulatory compliance  and scalability.
Access Efficiency Empowerment Governance InnovationOur Corporate Governance Principles outline how we hold  ourselves accountable to shareholders and stakeholders.
These principles address the operation of our Board and its  committees; strategic and succession planning; director  qualifications, independence, compensation and equity ownership; and the ability of shareholders and others to  communicate directly with Board members.
Further details can be found on the Corporate Governance  website .Corporate Governance PrinciplesCorporate governance BD is governed by a Board of Directors consisting of 12 members,  11 of whom are independent.
Our Board members have a  variety of backgrounds, which reflects our continuing efforts to  achieve a diversity of viewpoints, experiences and knowledge,   as well as ethnicities and genders.
Our Board is comprised of   four female directors and eight male directors, one of whom is  African American.
There are five operating Board committees (listed below) and  an executive committee that meets only as needed: • Audit • Compensation and Management Development • Corporate Governance and Nominating • Quality and Regulatory • Science, Marketing, Innovation and TechnologyA charter for each committee outlines its mission, the  qualifications required for membership and its members’ duties.
See more about our Board of Directors on the Corporate  Governance website .Board compositionGRI disclosures: 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25, 102-28, 102-Our goal is to provide an executive compensation program   that best serves the long-term interests of our shareholders.
We believe that attracting and retaining superior talent and  rewarding performance is key to delivering long-term shareholder returns, and that a competitive compensation  program is critical to that end.
For further details of executive  compensation, see our proxy statements .Executive compensation Access Efficiency Empowerment Governance InnovationStrong, long-term relationships with policymakers help us better  understand unmet public health needs around the world.
BD engages in public policy advocacy through ongoing,  constructive and transparent interactions with government  officials and stakeholder groups.
All advocacy activities are  directed toward furthering the company’s Purpose of  advancing  the world of health ™, without regard to the personal political  affiliations or views of any individual BD associates at any level  across the organization.
We employ public affairs professionals  who work closely with our country and business leaders to  make constructive contributions to policy discussions relevant   to the company and to the communities in which we operate.
We leverage our diverse expertise, global reach and  collaborations with healthcare professionals, patients and  others to advance sound public policy.
Our participation in the policymaking process, including  lobbying and the BD Political Action Committee, is governed   by the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team.Participation in the policymaking process The Center for Political Accountability (CPA)  recognized BD  with a first-place rating of 100% on their 2020 corporate political  disclosure and accountability index.
The ranking benchmarks  Fortune 500 companies and is produced by CPA in conjunction  with the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
This is the  fourth year in a row that the company has received a perfect  score for the transparency with which we conduct our political  engagement, and it is a designation that investors watch.Engaging with governments in a transparent manner In areas where BD has deep experience, the company develops  public policy positions that guide our advocacy efforts  worldwide.
We currently have a range of global public policy  positions  available online.
We also engage in policy dialog to advance regulatory and  reimbursement frameworks that ensure the safety and efficacy of medical technologies while enabling timely patient access to  them.
We promote sensible tax policies that enhance  competitiveness and innovation, support policies and programs  that advance biomedical research and seek to expand access to  care for all people.Public policy advocacy The company prohibits the use of corporate funds and assets to  support U.S. federal or state candidates, political parties, ballot  measures or referendum campaigns.
Exceptions to this policy  require approval by the CEO, the general counsel and a  designated member of the Board of Directors Corporate Nominating and Governance Committee.
To date, no  exceptions have been sought or approved.
Certain conditions must also be met for any political  contributions outside of the United States.Process for corporate financial contributionsAs permitted under U.S. law, the company operates a PAC.
The BD PAC is a mechanism to enable eligible U.S. associates to  voluntarily support candidates for elected office who share our  perspectives and approaches to public policy issues.
BD has not  authorized the establishment of any PACs operating on the  state or local level.
Contributions to the BD PAC are entirely  voluntary and are governed by the BD PAC Bylaws.
BD provides  administrative support to the PAC, as permitted under  federal law.
The BD PAC contributed a total of $64,000 to candidates in 2020.
All contributions made by the BD PAC are also publicly reported.
For annual reporting of itemized PAC contributions and any  other corporate contributions, visit our website .
For details on U.S. lobby expenditures by year, visit the   BD Sustainability Report archive .Political Action Committee: BD PAC Access Efficiency Empowerment Governance InnovationU.S. lobbying expenditures In addition to the work of our public affairs team, BD is able to  expand our reach by leveraging state and federal public policy  consultants; collaboratively engage on issues that impact our  industry through trade associations; and advance policy  proposals focused on key priorities through advocacy coalitions.
For calendar year 2020, the company spent approximately   $1.8 million on salaries and expenses associated with lobbying  in the U.S., which was roughly the same as the company’s 2019  expenditure.
We file quarterly reports regarding our federal  lobbying activities with the Office of the Clerk of the House of  Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate.
* Data represents calendar years.
References  1 Issue-based coalitions: Diagnostic Test Working Group, Medical Device Competitiveness Coalition, Physicians Fee Schedule Pathology Payment Coalition, United for Medical Research,  Corporate Friends of CDC, Inc.
2 Trade associations: AdvaMed, Healthcare Institute of New Jersey, California Life Sciences Association, North Carolina Biosciences Organization, Bio Nebraska.2019* 2020* GRI disclosure: 415-$848,008  Public policy consultant s$592,BD associates$112,Issue-based coalitions $193,Trade associations$991,516  Public policy consultant s$636,BD associates$89,Issue-based coalitions$135,Trade associations$1,851,950$1,746,Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Introduction Our Purpose— advancing the world of health ™—and innovating  to solve major health problems are mutually reinforced goals.
When we innovate to increase access to quality healthcare, it  benefits people and societies throughout the world and drives  our business performance.
BD conducts its R&D activities around the world.
In North  America this work is done at its operating units and at BD  Technologies in Research Triangle Park, NC.
Outside North  America, BD primarily conducts R&D activities in China, France,  India, Ireland and Singapore.
BD also collaborates with certain  universities, medical centers and other entities on R&D  programs and retains individual consultants and partners to  support its efforts in specialized fields.
Our investments in research and development led to a number  of product launches in FY 2020, including: • The BD Veritor ™ Assay for rapid detection of SARS-CoV-2, a  digitally read immunoassay for the direct and qualitative  detection of SARS-CoV-2 antigens in nasal swabs from  patients with signs and symptoms who are suspected  of COVID-19;  • The BD® SARS-CoV-2 Assay for the BD MAX ™ System, a  real-time PCR test intended for the qualitative detection of  nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2 in nasal, nasopharyngeal and  oropharyngeal swab samples; • The BD ™ Intraosseous Vascular Access System, providing a  solution for immediate vascular access via the bone marrow  in emergent situations;  • The BD Onclarity ™ HPV Assay, the only FDA-approved HPV  assay to individually identify and report genotypes beyond  16, 18 and 45;  • The Caterpillar ™ and Caterpillar ™ Micro Arterial Embolization  Devices, self-expanding arterial occlusion plugs intended for  use in the peripheral vasculature—our first venture into  interventional oncology; and  • The Arctic Sun ™ Stat Temperature Management System, with  an updated ergonomic design, integrated analytics  capabilities and interoperability with hospitals’ electronic  medical records.R&D investmentsInnovation Healthcare safety, outcomes and cost  BD is on the forefront of helping healthcare systems balance four key priorities: increasing access, improving  outcomes, mitigating healthcare system cost pressures and protecting patients and healthcare workers.
A sustainable innovation system needs investment, discipline and leadership to succeed.
Innovation requires diligence and partnering, and our capabilities span ideation through market  development.
Along this continuum, we can increase our impact through selective partnerships.
We think a broad definition of the term “innovation” is the best way to advance healthcare.
Whether it is  technology, processes, systems partnerships or any dimension of business, we pioneer new, relevant ways to  address healthcare’s most pressing problems.
Our technologies and execution capabilities allow BD to make  a profound impact on the quality of care.
R&D expense FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY USD,  millions$828 $770 $1,004 $1,062 $1,Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Innovation is not a buzzword at BD.
It’s the heart of the  company.
Each year, we invest more than a billion dollars in  innovation, knowing that behind every advance we make,  there’s a patient who could get a more accurate result, a faster  or better treatment, a better quality of life and, ideally, more  time.
Given that impact, it’s vital that we continue to cultivate a  culture where innovation can thrive.
For the sixth year running, BD was included in the Clarivate   Top 100 Global Innovators list in recognition, in part, of this  innovation-focused culture.
Since 2012, Clarivate has published the Top 100 Global  Innovators report to honor the most innovative companies   and institutions in the world.
Through robust analysis of  Clarivate’s unique and proprietary data, including patent  volume, patent grant success rates, global reach and invention  influence, Clarivate is able to identify, without bias, the world’s  most innovative organizations.At the start of 2021, BD had approximately 27,000 active, issued  patents worldwide and 4,500 in the United States alone.
Based solely on volume, for 2020, the Intellectual Property  Owners Association ranked BD 120th for number of granted  U.S. patents, and the European Patent Office ranked BD 70th in  number of patent applications filed—reflecting a significant  input to the analysis performed by Clarivate that pushed us into  the top 100 category.
We’re proud to be recognized on   Clarivate’s Top 100 Global Innovators list.
Innovation always has been and always  will be vital as we continue to look for   new and better ways of advancing the  world of health ™.Innovation awards  Innovation strategy Discovery Providing tools and technologies  to the research community that  facilitate the understanding of the  cell, cellular diagnostics, cell therapy   and immunologyDiagnostics Driving diagnostic stewardship   with end-to-end solutions that   improve lab performance and   impact clinical outcomes Medication   management Enabling safer, simpler and more  effective parenteral drug deliveryTherapy   management Enhancing disease management   with our product offeringsOur strategy focuses on four specific areas within healthcare and life sciences:BD remains focused on delivering sustainable growth and  shareholder value, while making appropriate investments for the  future.
We operate the business in a manner consistent with  various core strategies, including: • Increasing revenue growth by focusing on our core products,  services and solutions that deliver greater benefits to  patients, healthcare workers and researchers;• Supplementing our internal growth through strategic  acquisitions; • Continuing investment in research and development for  platform extensions and innovative new products; and • Making investments in growing our operations in emerging  markets.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance In the five years since we set our 2020 goals, BD has been  relentlessly focused on helping healthcare systems balance four  key priorities: increasing access, improving outcomes, mitigating  healthcare costs and protecting patients and healthcare  workers.
Through sustained, disciplined investments in  innovation, strategic partnerships and two transformative  acquisitions—of CareFusion in 2015 and Bard in 2017—BD has  continued to evolve and expand our product and solution  offerings to address healthcare’s most pressing problems.
• In 2015, our acquisition of CareFusion significantly  accelerated our strategy and enhanced the scale and depth  of our medication management and patient safety solutions.
This transformative acquisition was instrumental in BD  becoming one of the largest global leaders in medical  technology, significantly strengthening our ability to partner  with healthcare providers around the world to provide safer,  more economical care.
The combination of our  complementary product portfolios enabled BD to offer  medication management solutions and smart devices, from drug preparation in the pharmacy, to dispensing on the  hospital floor, to patient administration and subsequent  medication monitoring.
• Just two years later, in 2017, we further expanded  opportunities to innovate in fast-growing clinical areas,  including vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty  products, with the acquisition of Bard.
This acquisition enabled  BD to expand its leadership position in medication  management and in infection prevention, with offerings  positioned to address 75% of the most costly and frequent  healthcare-associated infections.
Today, we estimate approximately 90% of all U.S. hospital  inpatients receive care using a BD device; and approximately  70% of all U.S. acute hospitals have connectivity to a BD  data platform.
Innovation in review Over the course of the last five years, BD has launched numerous products that contribute towards our four sustainability goals that  relate to innovation.
In this five-year lookback, we’ll highlight some of the key products we launched across our four innovation goals.Applying smart devices,   robotics and analytics   and artificial intelligence to improve care processes Enabling new care settings to enhance the patient experience Better diagnosis and treatment   of chronic disease to improve outcomesLooking towards FY 2021 and beyond, our expanding innovation pipeline will leverage our core strengths to focus on lowering  healthcare costs by addressing shifting industry trends, which include:  Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance FY BD Cato ™  Medication  Workflow  Solution FY BD MAX ™  Extended  Enteric Bacterial  Panel 2020 goal Innovate  key healthcare processes such as medication management and lab automation BD innovations in lab automation and medication management have enabled the seamless unification of complex work   systems.
Over the past five years, we have continuously built upon successful models like the BD Kiestra ™ Lab Automation Solution   and BD HealthSight ™ System.
Notable launches that helped to innovate key processes include:  Pyxis ™ ES  SystemBD Alaris ™  Infusion  System BD Totalys ™  Automated  Cervical Cancer  Screening  System BD MAX ™  Vaginal Panel BD™ U-500  Insulin  Syringe  BD MAX ™   CT/GC/TV Assay The BD HealthSight ™ Platform for enterprise medication management is our unique  combination of connective technologies, analytics and expert services that close gaps  and create seamless visibility across BD medication management solutions, such as  BD Pyxis ™ Dispensing System and BD Alaris ™ Infusion Solutions.
The BD HealthSight ™  Platform connects systems and processes to help hospitals and health systems drive a  safer, more efficient medication management process.
We continue to develop the  capabilities of the BD HealthSight ™ Platform.FY BD Phoenix ™  M50 System BD Phoenix ™  CPO Detect  Test Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance BD MAX ™  MDR-TB PanelFY BD MAX ™  Enteric Viral  PanelBD Onclarity ™  HPV Assay PAXgene®  Blood ccfDNA  Tube (CE-IVD) FY BD Pyxis ™  SupplyStation ™  RF Cabinet BD COR ™  Automated  Molecular  Diagnostic  SystemBD Pyxis ™  Kanban RF  System BD COR ™   GX/PX with  BD Onclarity ™  HPV Assay  (E.U. only)FY BD Kiestra ™  ReadA  CompactBD Synapsys ™  3.1 Solution FY BD  Intelliport ™  Medication  Management  System BD  FlowSmart ™  TechnologyTechnology is advancing capabilities for how clinicians and patients manage disease across the care continuum.
We work closely with  healthcare systems to improve safety, costs and outcomes.
We continue to invest in new technologies under development to provide  more advanced “wearable” drug delivery devices and diabetes disease management applications.
As we pursue new digital  technologies, we are committed to providing secure products to our customers.Develop  innovations and informatics to enable disease management across the care continuum Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance FY BD Veritor ™ Plus System The wireless BD Veritor Plus ™ System provides healthcare providers and laboratorians   in physicians’ offices, clinics, hospitals and integrated delivery networks (IDNs)   with objective, lab-quality immunoassay test results within minutes.
This rapid and  accurate solution streamlines the point-of-care (POC) diagnostic workflow and  enables providers to quickly review patient results to assist in determining the  appropriate treatment in a single consultation.
The system can help detect results   for a variety of tests while the patient is still on site, which enables faster decision  making for earlier intervention.
In FY 2020, BD was able to develop a SARS-CoV-2 (the novel or new coronavirus strain that causes COVID-19) assay for use   on the BD Veritor ™ Plus System.
At this time, the BD Veritor ™ System, which is slightly larger than a cell phone, was in use at   more than 25,000 hospitals, clinician offices, urgent care centers and retail pharmacies in all 50 U.S. states.
Its one-button  functionality, workflow flexibility and ease-of-use made it an ideal solution for settings without laboratory personnel.
It also  offers customers real-time reporting capabilities through the BD Synapsys ™ Informatics Solution, providing them with the   ability to easily report data for disease monitoring and surveillance purposes.
Used as part of a comprehensive coronavirus mitigation program, this fast, easy-to-use testing system for SARS-CoV-2   provides virus detection for healthcare providers, therefore helping to decrease the spread of the virus.
BD Provena ™  PICCFY BD Rowa ™ VMax  Automated  Storage and  Dispensing  System FY BD Rowa ™  VMax 210  System Covera ™ Stent  Graft   (fistula  indication) BD HealthSight ™ Diversion Management Analytics  Addiction to prescription narcotics in the U.S. has reached epidemic proportions,  contributing to the opioid crisis and becoming a major driver of drug diversion   within healthcare settings.
Diversion of drugs, for personal use or illegal distribution,   can cause significant financial loss and potentially impact care to patients and  staff safety.
As part of the BD HealthSight ™ Platform that is designed to support enterprise-wide  medication management, the BD HealthSight ™ Diversion Management Analytics  application assists with opioid drug diversion investigations by creating an investigation workflow to monitor, triage and assign  potential diversion cases to specific investigators.
Compared to traditional, statistically based analytical tools that only look at  opioid amounts dispensed to identify potential diversion, BD utilizes machine learning algorithms and multiple dispensing  behaviors—such as overrides, canceled transactions, delays in dispense, administration or waste—to identify clinicians whose  behavior indicates higher risk for diversion.
FY Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance FY BD Veritor ™  COVID-19  POC   Antigen Test BD MAX ™  COVID-19  AssaysBD EleVation ™  Breast Biopsy  Device BD Intevia ™   1 mL   Handheld  Autoinjector Enable  the transition from research to clinical practice The ability for healthcare providers to advance their understanding of disease states and then quickly and accurately diagnose and  treat patients is critical to reducing overall system costs and improving patient outcomes.
Since 2015, BD introduced the following  products to aid researchers and clinicians: FY BD  FACSCelesta ™  Flow  Cytometer BD CLiC ™ LP  SystemBD   FACSymphony ™  Cell Analyzer FY BD  FACSCelesta ™  System BD Horizon  Brilliant ™  ReagentBD  FACSMelody ™  Cell Sorter BD FACSLyric ™  Cell Analyzer Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance BD FACSDuet ™ System   BD FACSDuet ™ Sample Preparation System is the first fully automated   sample-to-answer solution when integrated with the BD FACSLyric ™ Flow Cytometer.
The new integrated system enables clinical laboratories to fully automate the   sample-to-answer process and improve their efficiency by reducing errors and   limiting the manual user interactions required to run assays on the BD FACSLyric ™   Flow Cytometer.
The BD FACSDuet ™ Sample Preparation System builds new capabilities into the   BD portfolio of clinical flow cytometry solutions offering a preanalytical system.
When combined with the BD FACSLyric ™ Flow Cytometer, the BD FACSDuet ™ System   is the first truly walkaway sample-to-answer solution for clinical labs.
BD Precise ™  WTA  Reagents BD  Rhapsody ™  Single Cell  Analysis  PlatformBD FACSLyric ™  Flow   Cytometer  System FY FY BD AbSeq ™  Antibody- Oligonucleotide  Conjugates BD OptiBuild ™  Reagents FY FY BD  FACSymphony ™  S6 Sorter BD  FACSMelody ™  Cell Sorter BD FACSLyric ™  Clinical   Flow Cytometer Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Provide  solutions that improve healthcare worker and patient safety BD is dedicated to enhancing safety for patients and healthcare workers.
Hospitals and clinics pose an inherently risky environment  due, in part, to the high percentage of patients with communicable diseases.
With the increase in antimicrobial resistance (AMR), the  need for infection prevention and control in the healthcare environment is paramount, in addition to protecting healthcare workers  from needlestick injuries and exposure to hazardous drugs.
Key examples of this work over the past five years include: FY BD  ChloraShield ™  IV DressingFY BD Cato®  Medication  Workflow FY BD Phoenix ™  CPO Detect  Test BD Nano ™  PRO 4mm Pen  Needles AccuCath  Ace ™   Intravascular  CatheterFY BD® HD Check  SystemBD PhaSeal ™  Optima  System LifeStent ™ 5F  Vascular Stent  System AllPoints ™  Port Access  System BD Vacutainer® UltraTouch ™ Push Button Blood Collection Set  BD Vacutainer® UltraTouch ™ Push Button Blood Collection Set with Preattached Holder.
The one-handed safety activation of the push button allows clinicians to activate   the safety mechanism while still attending to the patient and venipuncture site.
The preattached holder is designed to protect against accidental needlestick injury   from the nonpatient (tube side) needle and to help ensure OSHA single-use holder  compliance.
The wing set with preassembled holder is provided as one sterile unit.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Venovo ™  Venous Stent  SystemFY OptiFix ™ AT  Absorbable   Fixation  SystemPureWick ™  Female  External   Catheter Kit WavelinQ ™ 4F  EndoAVF  System BD PurPrep ™ Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation In FY 2020, BD launched the BD PurPrep ™ Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation with  sterile solution, the first and only fully sterile povidone-iodine plus isopropyl alcohol  single-use antiseptic skin preparation (PVP-I; 0.83% available iodine and 72.5% isopropyl  alcohol) commercially available in the U.S.  BD PurPrep ™ Skin Preparation joins BD ChloraPrep ™ Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation  as the only fully sterile skin preparations available on the market that use a single-use  applicator specifically designed to prevent cross-contamination and promote aseptic  nontouch technique.
The BD PurPrep ™ Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation is an  effective skin preparation alternative  when the use of a chlorhexidine gluconate   (CHG/IPA) is contraindicated, or the patient is sensitive to CHG.
“Though progress has been made, healthcare-associated infections remain a problem,”  said Donald E.
Fry, MD, a nationally  recognized expert in infection prevention.
“Sterile, single-use products have been shown to reduce the risk of outbreaks linked to  microbial contamination of antiseptic products.
By developing fully sterile BD PurPrep ™ and ChloraPrep ™ Patient Preoperative  Skin Preparations, BD is providing healthcare professionals with a more complete set of tools to reduce the risk of intrinsic  contamination in antiseptic solutions.” BD Provena ™  Midline  Catheter with  Max Barrier+  Kits BD Provena ™  Solo CatheterFY Lutonix® AV  Low ProfileBD Insyte ™  Autoguard ™  BC Pro  Shielded IV  Catheter BD  PowerMidline ™  Catheter with  Max Barrier+  Kits BD UltraSafe  Plus ™ 2.25 mL  Passive  Needle Guard Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance While our 2020 sustainability goals have concluded, BD will continue to provide innovative solutions across the care continuum.
This innovation will not be focused solely on the products we deliver, but also on how we deliver them.Looking forward—innovation beyond Exponential technologies While these products themselves enable this transition from  research to clinical practice, BD has also been innovating on  how we showcase our comprehensive BD solutions across   three business segments (BD Medical, BD Interventional and   BD Life Sciences).
BD has begun to utilize cutting-edge  visualization techniques to create experiences that better  demonstrate product solutions, educate healthcare  professionals in proper product use and engage with  stakeholders—from potential and current associates to  customers and patients.
The BD Computer-Aided Engineering (CAE) Exponential  Technologies Group drives this work through immersive   and interactive experiences.
They utilize virtual reality (VR),  augmented reality (AR) and virtual tours (VT) to better  support the rollout of products—easing their transition from  research to clinical practice.
Our VR technology puts users in  the driver seat to interact with BD products, enabling them to  understand seamless workflows and helping drive better  healthcare outcomes.
AR allows users to engage with BD  products and concepts in a new way by placing them within  their own real-world environment, creating a next-level  visualization experience.
One such solution, our virtual tour, leverages scans of   real-world environments to create portable, web-based  experiences (viewed on a phone, tablet or computer) to  highlight our solutions and key messages for customers   and talent recruitment.
These experiences help users learn  about the broad portfolio of BD products, follow a patient  journey from diagnosis to cure, highlight new market  opportunities through visualization and storytelling, and plan  optimal layout solutions for customer environments and  measure customer environments for optimal layout solutions.
Users can view two of the BD virtual tours from their own  computer at  BD Innovation and Engagement Center   (based out of Eysins, Switzerland) and the   Shanghai Customer Experience Center .
Antimicrobial resistance, or AMR for short, is among the greatest threats to the health and well-being of  the world’s population.
If present trends continue, by 2050 AMR will become a greater cause of  mortality than heart disease or cancer.1 As the bacteria that cause infections become increasingly drug  resistant, even common medical procedures—such as surgery, childbirth and chemotherapy—will  become increasingly life-threatening.
This is not a theoretical future risk; it is already happening.
In 2019, the CDC released updated estimates for the toll of drug-resistant infections in the United  States, demonstrating that the risk is greater than previously believed, affecting over 2.8 million   patients annually.
And while the COVID-19 pandemic quickly became the focus of the world’s attention,  AMR continues to increase, threatening the lives of millions every year.
To mobilize action, in 2016 the United Nations identified AMR as a global health threat and called on  countries to enact national programs to combat AMR and to reduce the risk of drug-resistant infections.
A continued rise in resistance   by 2050 would lead to 10 million deaths   and a reduction of    2% to 3.5%  in GDP1–3.4 trillion   U.S. dollars in estimated  losses annuallyAntimicrobial resistance (AMR) There is usually a small  number of bacteria that   are resistant to antibiotics.Eventually, the drug-resistant  bacteria becomes dominant  and spreads.The drug-resistant bacteria  survive and multiply.When taken, antibiotics kill bacteria  causing the illness—but they also kill   the good bacteria that protects the   body from infection.AMR is the ability of microorganisms (such as bacteria, fungi, viruses or protozoa) to nullify the effects of antimicrobial drugs,  resulting in these drugs becoming ineffective.2,3 AMR can affect anyone, of any age, in any country.
How does it happen?
700,000  preventable   deaths worldwide annually References 1 O’Neill J.
Tackling drug-resistant infections globally: final report and recommendations.
Review on Antimicrobial Resistance.
May 2016.
Accessed March 15, 2020.
https://amr-review.org/sites/ default/files/160525_Final%20paper_with%20cover.pdf 2 Antibiotic threats in the United States.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Accessed March 15, 2020.
https://www.cdc.gov/drugresistance/threat-report-2013/index.html    3 O’Neill J.
Antimicrobial resistance: tackling a crisis for the health and wealth of nations.
December 2014.
Accessed March 15, 2020.
https://amr-review.org/sites/default/files/AMR%Review%20Paper%20-%20Tackling%20a%20crisis%20for%20the%20health%20and%20wealth%20of%20nations_1.pdfCost2Impact1ProjectionsIn response to this threat, in 2016 the United Nations called on  countries to enact national programs to combat AMR, and  focused on five key strategic focal areas identified by the  Interagency Coordinating Group (IACG): • Raising awareness of AMR among clinicians and the   public at large • Funding education, research and surveillance programs   to understand the growing threat of AMR •  Reducing incidence of infection through hygiene and   prevention efforts •  Optimizing the use of antibiotics, many of which are   prescribed inappropriately •  Investing in R&D and innovation to develop novel drugs,   vaccines and diagnosticsBD is leveraging its extensive global capabilities to meaningfully  engage around each of the five key strategies outlined in the  WHO’s Global Action Plan on AMR.
BD possesses important  capabilities that are instrumental in containing AMR.
We offer a  wide range of medical products utilized to prevent the spread of  infection in healthcare facilities.
In addition, we also offer  diagnostic systems to screen, test and diagnose infection,  including drug-resistant strains, and state-of-the-art  surveillance and reporting capabilities to monitor, track and  predict AMR outbreaks.
Support infection control guidelines Comprehensive product and service offerings from BD to  help clinicians improve patient outcomes through the  standardization of care and adherence to best practices.
Expand diagnostic testing Diagnostic tests classify infections and guide therapies,  enabling clinicians to implement effective antimicrobial  stewardship interventions.
Advance medication management A connected medication management system comprised of  technologies, analytics and surveillance tools can help ensure  that medications are available and utilized appropriately.
The Antimicrobial Resistance Fighter Coalition (ARFC),  mobilized by BD in 2017, aims to raise awareness and emphasize  the need for a broad array of stakeholders to take personal  responsibility in combating AMR.
The ARFC is comprised of a  broad stakeholder group of global organizations, patient  advocacy groups and individuals from over 50 countries,  including health agency officials, professional societies, clinicians, patients who recovered from resistant infections and  family members of patients who died from AMR-related causes.
The ARFC utilizes digital and social media to advance awareness  and mobilization around AMR, including a dedicated website ,  social media channels, and more recently, a webinar and  podcast series featuring many of the world’s leading authorities  on AMR.Strategy 1: Improve awareness, education and training Improving awareness and education remain a critical component to combating AMR AMR in the Light of COVID-19 is a recent series of four  webinars mobilized by the ARFC that aired live from September  to November 2020.
In these webinars, global AMR experts  discussed how the COVID-19 pandemic could reshape strategies  for combating drug-resistant infections around the world.
This webinar series had 20,467 registrants from 167 countries.
Superbugs and You: True Stories from Scientists and Patients  Around the World  is a podcast series co-created by the ARFC and  CIDRAP (Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy).
In each podcast, a patient, a clinician and a researcher tell their  stories about how they each have suffered, treated and researched  (respectively) drug-resistant infections (“superbugs”).
They also  describe ways that listeners can change their behaviors to improve  the use of antibiotics.
From hypothetical to reality:   how COVID-19 foretells a world   without antibioticsAMR in the Light   of COVID-Drug-resistant infections can happen  when least expected Tatiana Vargas,1 was a healthy, recently married newlywed  living in California.
After returning home from her  honeymoon, she began to feel unwell.
After a doctor visit  and a misdiagnosis, the infection moved to her lungs and  Tatiana landed in the ICU.
She was then diagnosed with a  methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  (MRSA)  infection for which the initial antibiotic no longer worked.
After quarantine and many weeks of treatment, she was  released.
Today, Tatiana lives with a chronic cough and the  reality that the infection might return.
Reference 1 Tatiana Vargas, Antimicrobial Resistance Fighter Coalition message.
https://antimicrobialresistancefighters.org/stories/story-tatiana-chiprez-vargas Strengthening surveillance and reporting are necessary to better  understand the scale of the challenge and develop an  appropriate response.
Lessons from COVID highlight the need  for improved surveillance of drug-resistant infections.
BD has  contributed data to global organizations, such as the CDC; the  Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IMHE); and the  Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy (CDDEP) to  evaluate and report the burden of AMR.
In 2019, BD provided  extensive data and analytics to the CDC utilizing insights from  our proprietary hospital surveillance and analytics platforms.
These data were integrated into the CDC’s  Antibiotic Resistance  Threats Report1 highlighting the prevalence and impact of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and fungi on patients in the  United States.
Healthcare systems and governments often do not understand  the economic impact that AMR can have—today and in the  future.
The BD Health and Economic Outcomes Research  (HEOR) team developed an AMR Burden of Disease Tool that  illustrates current and anticipated future clinical and economic  impact of AMR across various system levels.
BD has facilitated  the use of this new tool with health systems and facilities in  Canada, Southeast Asia and China.
The tool is automated and  available online  for public use.
Strategy 2: Strengthen evidence via surveillance Reducing risk of infection is an essential component of the  global effort to combat AMR.
When selecting, placing and  maintaining medical devices, proper hand hygiene, aseptic  technique and compliance to guidelines are necessary to reduce  HAI risk to patients.
And since resistant infections spread easily  among patients in healthcare facilities, patient screening and  universal precautions may reduce transmission of infections.
BD is leveraging its expertise in diagnostics, vascular access,  surgical preparation and critical care to support hospitals’  infection prevention and control programs.
In addition to deploying these programs at an individual health  facility level, BD has worked in collaboration with national  governments in multiple countries, including the U.S., China,  Kenya, Cambodia and India, via public-private partnerships   to improve infection prevention and control capabilities  in hospitals.In 2020, The Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America  (SHEA) launched a new best practices training course in  infection prevention and control for hospital clinicians with  direct patient care responsibilities.
The online program,  Prevention Course in HAI Knowledge and Control (Prevention  CHKC), was supported by an educational grant from BD and is  available for free throughout the COVID-19 pandemic to  support infection prevention awareness and education.
“With many healthcare facilities stretched to or beyond their limits  and others preparing to be, this course provides critical  information and skills to keep frontline providers, their families  and patients safe in this crisis,”  said Hilary Babcock, MD,  MPH, Chair of the SHEA Education and Research Foundation.
“These prevention processes are not necessarily intuitive, and the  need for refreshing these skills among healthcare workers is high  in normal times and critical during this global pandemic.”Strategy 3: Reduce incidence of infection Diagnostic tests classify infections and guide therapies,  enabling clinicians to implement effective antimicrobial  stewardship interventions.
Our focus in this area has been in   three areas: delivering updated and new diagnostic tools to  laboratories globally, deploying software to move data from the  lab to the patient, and co-developing training tools for optimal  use of the technologies.
BD announced a collaboration with the Fleming Fund in 2019 to  equip labs in developing and emerging countries.
More on this  partnership can be found in the Access  section of this report.
In 2020, a successful rollout of equipment, reagents and  training has improved lab capabilities across several countries.
In the U.K., BD partnered with a community pharmacy chain to  demonstrate the effective use of point-of-care tests to diagnose  patients with viral infections, resulting in a reduction in the  number of unnecessary antibiotic prescriptions.
Patients and  pharmacists surveyed expressed satisfaction with the survey  and even a willingness to pay if the service was not reimbursed  by the NHS.
In the U.S. and other industrialized countries, BD introduced the  BD HealthSight ™ Clinical Advisor Platform to identify when an  inappropriate and potentially ineffective antibiotic has been  prescribed.
Actionable alerts are delivered to clinicians involved  in the medication management process to assist with selection  of antibiotics to help avoid waste of resources associated with  compounding unnecessary medications.To support the understanding of the role of diagnostics in the  appropriate use of antimicrobials, BD partnered to create and  launch new training and assessment tools.
Read more about the  massive online open course on AMR diagnostics and AMR  scorecard in the Access  section of this report.Strategy 4: Optimize the use of antimicrobials Antibiotics can cause harm and should  be used judicially The Peggy Lillis Foundation shares the story of Peggy Lillis,1  a healthy, vibrant, 56-year-old kindergarten teacher and  mother from New York who was prescribed a strong  antibiotic for prophylaxis.
She developed diarrhea and was  diagnosed with a Clostridioides difficile  infection.
C.
difficile  infections can occur when antibiotics disrupt the microflora  of “good” bacteria in your gut, resulting in overgrowth and  infection by the C.
difficile  bacteria.
Despite the best efforts  of the medical team using the strongest antibiotics they  had, 36 hours later Peggy died from the infection.Resistance can spread through the air;  one-third of AMR deaths are due to   drug-resistant tuberculosis Saurabh Rane2 is an XDR-TB (extensively drug-resistant  tuberculosis) survivor.
This means most TB drugs did not  work to cure his infection.
He was initially misdiagnosed  with susceptible TB, and when he was correctly diagnosed,  he had to take over 20 pills a day for over 2.5 years,  including 6 months of daily injections.
These medications  have terrible side effects, as they are very toxic.
Today, he is  an advocate for fighting drug-resistant TB and fighting to  mandate drug susceptibility testing.
References 1 Christian and Liam Lillis, Antimicrobial Resistance Fighter Coalition message.
https://antimicrobialresistancefighters.org/stories/story-christian-and-liam-lillis 2 Saurabh Rane,  Antimicrobial Resistance Fighter Coalition message.
https://antimicrobialresistancefighters.org/stories/story-saurabh-rane BD remains committed to investing in innovations to combat AMR through the development of new diagnostics, devices and  information systems that can help in clinical decision-making and reduce risks.Strategy 5: Innovations to help combat AMR Launched in 2016, BD ChloraShield ™ IV Dressing is a thin, transparent vascular dressing featuring BeneHold ™ Adhesive Technology  formulated with CHG (chlorhexidine gluconate) that provides sustained antimicrobial activity against skin flora for up to even days.
Designed to enhance patient care, the dressing stays in place, secures the vascular access device and is easy to remove.Support infection  control guidelines In 2016, BD expanded its efforts to combat antimicrobial resistance by introducing its next generation diagnostic instrument for  the rapid identification of bacteria and detection of antimicrobial resistance.
The new BD Phoenix ™ M50 ID/AST System helps  deliver the same rapid, accurate and cost-effectiveness within a smaller footprint.Expand   diagnostic testing In 2019, BD announced the latest advancement in combating antimicrobial resistance with new analytics integrated into the  company’s connected medication management platform.
It identifies when an inappropriate and potentially ineffective  antibiotic has been prescribed, based on a patient’s specific infection diagnosis.
BD HealthSight ™ Clinical Advisor is a new  functionality within the BD HealthSight ™ Connected Medication Management Platform that aggregates disparate patient data  to provide clinicians with the ability to receive near real-time medication stewardship alerts within the pharmacy workflow.
Advance medication  management In response to the global threat of antimicrobial resistance and  under the guidance of the UN AMR Interagency Coordination  Group, most countries throughout the world have established  AMR national action plans.
BD is engaging with ministries of  health, international agencies and other partners to integrate  our AMR capabilities and initiatives within these country-level  plans.
We are doing so in a manner that appropriately aligns our  actions to the stage of development of the countries and the  hospitals we are working in.
These actions and activities reflect our company’s strong commitment to combating the global  risk of AMR.
Halting and reversing this massive challenge will require the  combined resources and efforts of both public and private  sectors.
AMR has no single solution, and the challenges cannot  be solved without multiple players working collectively on a  common AMR agenda.
BD will continue to collaborate with  global leaders around the world to address this urgent global  health concern.Starting in 2016, the PureWick® Female External Catheter has allowed for simple, noninvasive urine output management in  female patients in over 2,000 hospitals and rehabilitation facilities.Support infection  control guidelines In 2019, BD announced it received FDA approval for BD ChloraPrep ™ Skin Preparation with sterile solution, the only fully sterile  chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG) antiseptic skin preparation commercially available in the U.S.Support infection  control guidelinesIn 2017, BD launched the first automated phenotypic test to detect and classify CPOs. Available as part of the BD Phoenix ™  Automated Microbiology System in Europe, the new BD Phoenix ™ CPO Detect Test will help hospitals identify and contain  infections caused by CPO, while potentially combating an increase in AMR.Expand   diagnostic testing In 2018, BD introduced the BD MAX ™ MDR-TB Panel, an in vitro diagnostic with CE-mark available in Europe and other regions.
The single, PCR-based molecular diagnostic test is an integrated diagnostic test that can simultaneously detect bacteria that  cause TB.
It determines if the bacteria contains mutations associated with resistance to the two important first-line drugs, INH  and RIF, enhancing the information for clinicians to direct the optimal treatment for their patients.Expand   diagnostic testing In 2020, BD announced availability in Europe (CE marked) of the new BD Kiestra ™ InoqulA System powered by BD Synapsys ™  Informatics Solution.
The BD Kiestra ™ InoqulA System allows the user to prioritize urgent samples immediately for on-demand  processing, minimizing workflow interruption.
In addition, it also reduces the need for subculture, which may shorten the time  for microbial identification and antibiotic susceptibility testing, allowing earlier result reporting.Expand   diagnostic testing AccessInnovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance In July 2020, BD was granted Emergency Use Authorization  (EUA) from the FDA for a rapid, point-of-care SARS-CoV-2  diagnostic test for use with our broadly available BD Veritor ™  Plus System.
The launch of this new assay that delivers results in  15 minutes on an easy-to-use, highly portable instrument was  critical for improving access to COVID-19 diagnostics because it  enabled real-time results and decision-making while the patient  was still on site.2020 goal Develop  low-cost innovations to address leading causes of mortality and morbidityBD believes in the vision of a world free of disease and needless suffering.
We think access to high quality  healthcare is so fundamental that it can create more productive, educated and equitable societies.
BD’s global public health efforts seek to expand access and drive capacity building through partnerships  with leading organizations and governments.
We engage in advocacy with governments, funders and  health agencies to advance innovations to address the world’s leading public health needs, which are  highly aligned with the UN SDGs. The business model for emerging markets encourages our country’s leaders to understand the health  system priorities in their country and engage with key opinion leaders responsible for health policies and  practices.
This enables BD to engage at earlier stages in the healthcare decision-making process and  adapt our strategic plans for product array, manufacturing and talent accordingly.Access Healthcare in resource-limited populations The BD Veritor ™ System, which is slightly larger than a cell  phone, is currently in use in hospitals, clinician offices, urgent  care centers and retail pharmacies.
Its one-button functionality,  workflow flexibility and ease of use make it an ideal solution for  settings without laboratory personnel.
It also offers customers  real-time reporting capabilities through the BD Synapsys ™  Informatics Solution, which provides them with the ability to  easily report data for disease monitoring and  surveillance purposes.
“This will be a game changer for frontline healthcare workers  and their patients to be able to access a quick diagnostic test for  COVID-19, offering results in real time at convenient locations  like retail pharmacies, urgent care centers and doctors’ offices,”   said Dave Hickey, President of Integrated Diagnostic Solutions  for BD at the time of launch.
“Such tests will also help  communities be more informed and better prepared to help  prevent new spikes and additional waves of COVID-19 by  enabling public health workers to quickly identify infectious  individuals and trace their contacts.
The highly portable,  easy-to-use, point-of-care format of this test, large quantity of  test kits available and existing, expansive footprint of BD  Veritor ™ Plus Instruments will help bring widespread access to  COVID-19 testing in the United States and around the world as  additional country-specific regulatory requirements are met.” BD Veritor ™ Plus System AccessInnovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance BD has established a series of partnerships with PEPFAR (U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief) and the U.S. CDC.
These  partnerships helps us strengthen laboratory systems and upgrade clinical practices in phlebotomy, infusion and injection.
Labs for Life 2020 goal Collaborate  on strengthening health systems with leading agencies and NGOs BD, PEPFAR and CDC public-private partnerships PEPFAR, CDC and BD have a long-standing public-private  partnership (“Labs for Life”) focused on laboratory systems  strengthening toward achieving the UNAIDS 95:95:95 targets.
Launched in 2007, Labs for Life provides frontline training for  laboratory staff in six countries heavily burdened with HIV.
In 2016, The Journal of Infectious Diseases highlighted the  successes of the partnership, such as reduced turnaround times  for test results, improved laboratory quality results and  standardization of safe specimen transport practices  and networks.
Renewed in 2012, phase 2 expanded to 41 laboratories across  five countries in sub-Saharan Africa and India.
Several labs were  successfully accredited in phase 2.
Based on the success of the  first two phases, the partnership was renewed in 2018 for  another three years.
As part of this partnership, the U.S. Department of State brings  strategic guidance, HIV/AIDS technical expertise and in-kind  resources.
CDC provides oversight and technical guidance and  serves as the primary implementing agency through CDC  country offices and local partners.
BD contributes personnel  time through trainers, mentors, and subject matter experts and  has deployed more than 300 BD Global Health Fellows to  short-term, in-country assignments.
In the current phase, which  launched in 2018, the partnership is working in 39 laboratories  across six countries where, to date, BD fellows have conducted  28 mentorships, resulting in improved laboratory quality  assessment scores.
Through the program, lab assessment scores    across participating labs increased by at least 46% and as  high as 196%.
In one country in Africa, the partnership established a Center of  Excellence (COE) in phlebotomy and equipment maintenance  (EM) in a region with high prevalence of HIV.
In India, the Labs for Life partnership also established a COE  in phlebotomy and EM at Government Medical College  (GMC) Aurangabad.
By FY 2020 about 220 lab personnel  and medical officers were trained on phlebotomy.
Additionally, online educational content has been developed,  which has over 500,000 views from 91 countries.
BD has partnered with the William Davidson Institute (WDI) of  the University of Michigan to conduct our monitoring and  evaluation (M&E) of the program.“I could have never imagined that I    would be a BD Global Health Fellow in    Kenya, but BD made my wildest dream    come true! We helped a laboratory    operate more efficiently by improving    good documentation practices, building    a reliable inventory system and    emphasizing the importance of audits    and identifying nonconformities.
BD, CDC and PEPFAR’s collaboration is    exceptional and makes the world    better one lab at a time.
It was the    greatest experience.”       Gábor Oláh      (Quality Control Operations Supervisor, Kornye,      BD Hungary) Kenya, AccessInnovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Laboratory leadership training in low- and middle-income countries At a time when clinical laboratories are under increased pressure  due to the COVID-19 pandemic, having strong leadership within  labs has become even more essential.
In 2020, as part of the  Labs for Life partnership, BD and the Association of Public  Health Laboratories (APHL), together with WDI, collaborated to  develop and offer an online laboratory leadership and management essentials training based on a curriculum  developed by APHL.
This virtual eight-week course will be  offered via the ExtendEd platform in Q1 FY 2021 and aims to  strengthen laboratory managers’ skills and knowledge to  manage and lead clinical laboratories.
Infection prevention in Kenya Needlestick injuries put both patients and healthcare workers  worldwide at increased risk of bloodborne pathogen exposure.
In Kenya, more than 20% of needlestick injuries occur from  starting IVs or connecting a syringe into an IV line.
To address  this safety issue, BD in collaboration with PEPFAR, CDC and the  Kenya Ministry of Health (MOH) signed a memorandum of  understanding (MOU) in 2018 for an infection prevention  partnership.
The objective of the Kenya Infection Prevention  Global Collaboration for Advancement (KINGA) partnership is  to improve the safety of both patients and healthcare workers  during injections, infusion and blood collection procedures.
Program activities commenced in 2019 with observational  assessments at nine hospitals to understand injection and  infusion practices.
BD Global Health trained 29 BD associates  from around the world to serve as BD Global Health Fellows to  perform key in-country activities, including the assessments.
Fellows and local KINGA staff followed hundreds of patients to  complete over 2,500 observations of injections, peripheral IV  insertions and starts, medication administration, as well as care  and maintenance of the peripheral IV lines.
Following the  observations, BD and partners developed a training curriculum   that addresses the gaps identified and emphasizes best practices.
In 2021, Kenyan healthcare workers at the target facilities will  receive an adapted training that incorporates both virtual and  in-person content to account for the COVID-19 pandemic.
BD Global Health Fellows based in their home countries will  support the train-the-trainer training sessions virtually, and local  KINGA and BD associates will lead the hands-on skills practice in  Kenya.
This train-the-trainer session will be followed by in-facility  sessions and mentoring support to educate more healthcare  workers, thus expanding the program’s reach throughout the  nine facilities in Kenya.
In addition, the quality improvement project  of the KINGA partnership will introduce safety-engineered   BD Venflon ™ Pro Safety IV Catheter at all the target hospitals.
Recognizing the risks that healthcare workers face as a result of  needlestick injuries and exposure to blood, the partnership has  further supported the testing and vaccination of 3,000  healthcare workers against hepatitis B in the selected facilities.
Endline   assessmentsQuality    improvement   observationFacility-based   mentoringTrain-the-   trainer sessionsBaseline   assessments1 2 3 4 AccessInnovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Healthcare worker and patient safety in western China Over the last four years, BD and Project HOPE, an international  nonprofit for global health and disaster recovery, have  collaborated to reduce infusion-related infections among  healthcare workers and patients in four provinces in western  China.
A total of 16 hospitals are included in the partnership  that targets outpatient, ICU, obstetrics, surgery, oncology,  pediatrics and endocrinology units.
At the start of the program,  over 2,000 observations of peripheral IV catheter insertions and  practices of care and maintenance were conducted to assess  practices at baseline.
Based on the insights made during the  observations, a training curriculum was developed to address  gaps in peripheral IV practice and maintenance while  reinforcing best practices.
Over 2,200 nurses and 30 nursing  students were trained through the partnership’s train-the-trainer  model in the first two years of the program.
Year three of the partnership commenced in 2020 at the start  of the COVID-19 pandemic.
To assure continuity of program  activities during the pandemic, trainings transitioned to an  online platform.
BD and Project HOPE invited local faculty to  record nine online videos that mirrored the curriculum for the in-person training workshops.
Each facility managed the rollout  of the training.
The nurses watched the online courses, and then  the local faculty led the practice session on site afterwards.
The new online structure expanded the reach of the program,  resulting in an additional 1,827 nurses trained.
To date, over  4,000 nurses have been trained since the program’s inception.
Additional nurses will be trained as the partnership concludes  in 2021.
Devex Content Series   —BD and Devex, a global development  media platform, have collaborated on two dedicated digital  platforms that draw awareness to important global health  issues.
The first called “Safety First” explores the challenges at  the heart of needlestick and sharps safety and highlights  promising efforts to ensure patient and healthcare worker  safety in hospitals and clinics around the world.Advanced HIV Disease: Know Your Count  is the second  digital platform by BD and Devex.
The partnership explores the  reasons why mortality from advanced HIV disease (AHD)  persists when diagnostic services and treatments are available.
It calls on leaders in the HIV/AIDS field, like policymakers,  practitioners and people living with AHD, to share insights on  how to address AHD.
Early diagnosis, treatment and access to  services are just some of the ways.
AccessInnovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Making STRIDES against drug-resistant TB in high-burden countries Dr. Richard Pfelz, BD–Baltimore, undertaking the assessment.Lack of access to reliable drug-susceptibility testing (DST) is a critical public health challenge posed by drug-resistant forms of  tuberculosis.
On average, it is estimated that 50% of those in need of second-line drug-susceptibility testing in high-burden countries  do not receive it.
To better understand the barriers that stand in the way of patient access to this life-saving test, BD and the U.S. Agency for  International Development (USAID) formed a partnership in 2018, called STRIDES (Strengthening TB Resistance Testing and  Diagnostic Systems).
As part of the partnership, BD and USAID are working in India in collaboration with the National TB Elimination  Program (NTEP) to improve access to and increase capacity for liquid culture and drug-susceptibility testing (LC/DST) across 55 public  sector labs.
Key highlights of this partnership achieved by end of FY 2020 include:  Assessment of liquid culture (LC) and drug susceptibility  testing (DST) labs:  Ten key public sector labs across different  cities have been assessed by BD experts on various aspects of  lab and quality management, including processes followed   (i.e., testing, sample management), documentation practices  and availability of adequate infrastructure.
BD developed a standardized checklist, which was approved by NTEP, WHO and  national experts for use during lab assessments.
Results from  these assessments were shared with all labs in debriefing  meetings.
Based on the discussions, BD developed specific  action plans for each lab containing short-, medium- and  long-term action items.
Training and capacity building:  BD trained microbiologists  from 31 public sector labs on best practices in LC/DST, which   led to a 25% to 40% increase in knowledge and skill levels.
A follow-up skill assessment was conducted at a subset of ten labs  wherein 94 laboratory personnel were interviewed.
During this  assessment, it was found that overall knowledge scores from the  original training were retained, highlighting the effectiveness of  the training.
Based on the findings from the skill assessment,  targeted classroom and hands-on training was organized at the  ten labs to train 63 lab personnel on gaps observed.
AccessInnovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance BD and USAID also partnered with  an award-winning documentary  filmmaker in India to launch “TB  Talk Unmasked,”  a platform  through which policymakers, TB survivors and treating  physicians can share their unique stories and  perspectives.
At the 50th Union World Conference on Lung Health in  Hyderabad, USAID honored BD for its commitment to  strengthening the national TB program in India.
In FY 2019, BD signed a memorandum of  understanding with USAID to expand the STRIDES  program to Indonesia with the goal of working across  four national labs and 15 labs that are part of   the country’s TB diagnostics network.Strengthening Specimen Referral System:  BD conducted  field assessments to identify gaps in TB diagnostics management  and observed suboptimal visibility in specimen movement as one  of the key gaps impacting patient outcomes.
BD worked to  develop a solution framework for addressing this gap.
Currently, in collaboration with NTEP, BD is supporting development of an  integrated module in the Nikshay application (used by NTEP for  end-to-end management of patients) to track the movement of a  sample and help reduce turnaround time from sample collection  to diagnosis and treatment.
“Under BD-USAID partnership     STRIDES, we have been able to     conduct lab assessments and     laboratory staff’s trainings at our     public sector Liquid Culture and Drug     Susceptibility Testing laboratories,     which is critical to the National     Tuberculosis Elimination Program.
STRIDES team brings niche skills and     technical expertise to the table.
We  look forward to continuing the     collaboration with STRIDES team to     achieve the goal of eliminating TB     from India by 2025.”           Dr. Nishant      Central TB Division      Ministry of Health, IndiaTM AccessInnovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Innovative partnerships to strengthen lab systems and combat AMR BD has formed several innovative partnerships with leading health agencies and NGOs, each of which aims to raise awareness of this  growing global threat; better understand the scale and scope of the challenge; help reduce the risk of infection and drive optimal  antimicrobial use—particularly in low- and middle-income countries.AMR Educating and advocating for AMR Global experts have identified several challenges that low- and  middle-income countries face when addressing AMR.
There are  too few trained microbiologists, few health facilities that  routinely undertake bacterial culture and still fewer facilities that  meet the requirements for accreditation.
To respond to these challenges, BD and The London School of  Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, together with a global advisory  group of experts, partnered to create the Massive Open Online  Course (MOOC) that educates participants about how  diagnostics can be leveraged to reduce the inappropriate use of  antibiotics, screen patients with resistant bacteria in healthcare  settings, and monitor AMR trends and the effectiveness of  antibiotic stewardship strategies.
The course was publicly available and offered in collaboration  with leading regional organizations to assure learning is widely  scaled.
These organizations include: the Indian Council of  Medical Research (ICMR), ALADDiV (Latin American Alliance  for the Development of In Vitro Diagnostics); the Philippine  Society of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases (PSMID);   the Interregional Association for Clinical Microbiology and  Antimicrobial Chemotherapy (IACMAC) of the Russian  Federation; and the Chinese Academy of Laboratory Medicine  Education (CALME).
This course, which launched in 2019 and is available in six  languages, has since reached 13,000 participants in over  100 countries.Expanding capacity for AMR diagnostics in low- and  middle-income countries.
The Fleming Fund, a U.K. aid program, provides grants to  improve the surveillance of AMR and generates relevant data  that is shared nationally and globally.
In 2019, The Fleming  Fund awarded grants to diagnostic sector companies for  strengthening laboratory systems in 24 countries in sub-Saharan  Africa and Asia.
BD was awarded grants to expand its  automated blood culture and identification and antimicrobial  susceptibility testing (ID/AST) technologies to help strengthen  laboratory systems for combating AMR in 19 of the 24 countries.
Since the award, our AMR solutions continue to be placed in  countries with limited or no prior experience of using diagnostics  to address AMR.
In 2020, instruments were rolled out in nine  countries in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia.
The additional  countries will be rolled out in 2021.
Strengthening laboratory systems for performing   AMR-related laboratory tests.
To further strengthen capacities to combat AMR at both an  individual laboratory level and across national laboratory  systems, in FY 2019 BD partnered with the Foundation for  Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND), a Geneva-based NGO, to  develop the new AMR scorecard for lab quality improvement.
BD piloted this new AMR tool in collaboration with FIND in five  countries—Vietnam, Cameroon, Kenya, Ethiopia and Uganda.
The final version will be launched in FY 2021 in collaboration  with the African Society for Laboratory Medicine (ASLM) and  Africa CDC.
An awareness and education campaign will begin in  FY 2021 in collaboration with all partners to include training  assessors on how to best utilize the scorecard.
In India, BD has been in discussions with government  stakeholders and relevant partners for rollout of the scorecard at  several public sector facilities, but experienced delays in FY 2020  due to COVID-19 pandemic-related issues.
AccessInnovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Reference 1 Sreemathy BB, Menon SPS, Kumari ARPV, et al.
Impact of sepsis management project on rational use of antibiotics in presumed  and probable neonatal sepsis - a retrospective comparative study.
J Evid Based Med Healthc.
2020;7(36):1970-1975.The results showed that rational use of antibiotics increased  significantly after the project implementation.
Use of ampicillin  and amikacin as first-line antibiotic increased from 80% to 91%  and use of cefotaxime as first-line decreased from 18% to 7%.
At the same time, average length of stay in the hospital for the  patients decreased from 7.2 to 5.4 days after implementation of  the project.
Number of days for which antibiotics were given to  neonates were also reduced significantly.1  Based on the success of this initiative, the MOH decided to  expand access to these technologies to 13 surrounding primary  and secondary hospitals through an innovative Hub and Spoke  model wherein samples are moved to GH Ernakulum for testing.
Sepsis Management Program, Kerala In India, BD partnered with the Ministry of Health (MOH) in  Kerala to increase access to automated blood culture and  identification and antibiotic susceptibility technologies (ID/AST)  at a secondary public sector hospital—Government Hospital  (GH), Ernakulum.
Bacterial sepsis is the leading cause of  neonatal deaths.
With 3.8% incidence of neonatal sepsis and  neonatal mortality rate of 28/1,000 lives births, India accounts  for 30% of the neonatal deaths globally.
The objective of the  project was to: 1) enable early diagnosis of sepsis to reduce  sepsis-related morbidity and mortality, while 2) providing  rational antimicrobial therapy to reduce AMR.
7 days Others5 days6 daysProject impact on number of days antibiotics were given Baseline Endline 50%20% 21%9% 35%5% 9% 51% AccessInnovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance As part of this effort in emerging markets, BD increased the number of facilities (new facilities, a move to larger facilities or product  line expansions) and in employment in some key locations, detailed in the map below.Expansion in emerging manufacturing employment and facilities*,†2020 goal Further expand  BD manufacturing, product array and employment in emerging markets In the period of FY 2015 to FY 2020, BD saw emerging market revenue growth of over $600 million.
Throughout this time, we  continued to pursue growth opportunities in emerging markets, which includes certain countries in Eastern Europe, the Middle East,  Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific.Emerging market revenue growth Emerging market revenues (in billions) Malaysia    1,790 additional associate s 1 office location added 1 manufacturing location acquiredChile    140 additional associate s 1 office facility acquiredChinaChina    850 additional associate s 1 R&D center added 3 locations added or expired 4 manufacturing locations added,       acquired or expandedHungary    480 additional associate s 1 manufacturing location expanded India    650 additional associate s 2 R&D locations expanded 1 office location added 1 manufacturing location expandedIsraelIsrael    460 additional associate s 2 manufacturing locations acquired 1 office location acquiredPoland   660 additional associate s 2 office locations acquired or expanded South Africa    90 additional associate s 1 office location acquiredMexico    6,940 additional associate s 4 manufacturing locations       added, acquired or expanded * Associate numbers are rounded to the nearest ten.
† Increased employment is defined as adding over 75 associates to the total headcount in these countries from FY 2015 to FY 2020.2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 $1.8 $1.9 $1.95 $2.53 $2.71 $2.Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted emerging market revenues in 2020 and 2019 by an estimated $100 million and $155 million, respectively.
Revenues in emerging markets in 2020 were unfavorably impacted by a decline in healthcare utilization as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Revenues in   our BD Medical–Medication Delivery Solutions unit were also unfavorably impacted by a new volume-based procurement process which has been adopted   by several of China’s provinces.
To date, the impact of these procurement initiatives to our revenues in China has been limited to our BD Medical–Medication  Delivery Solutions unit.
Emerging market revenue growth in 2019 was favorably impacted by the inclusion of revenues associated with Bard products in our  results for the first quarter of FY 2019, as noted above.
Underlying growth in 2019 was particularly driven by sales in China and EMA.
Emerging market revenues in 2016 related to divested businesses, primarily the Respiratory Solutions business, were approximately $105 million.
Unfavorable foreign currency translation impacted emerging market revenues in 2017 and 2016 by an estimated $29 million and $156 million, respectively.
Emerging market revenue growth in 2017 was driven by sales in Greater Asia, including China, and Latin America.
Emerging market revenue growth in 2016  reflected the inclusion of CareFusion’s sales for the full fiscal year, as well as growth in China and Latin America, partially offset by declines in the Middle East   and Africa.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance We understand that the health of the planet is linked to the health of people, and reducing our impact  on the environment supports our Purpose of advancing the world of health™.
With continuing pressure  on natural resources and the predicted impacts of climate change, it is imperative that we continue to  increase the resilience of our operations and explore opportunities for environmental improvements  across our value chain.
By partnering more closely with suppliers, customers and peers, we can address  some of the world’s most pressing environmental issues more broadly than we could on our own.
Efficiency Environmentally sound products and  resilient operations Status of performance against 2020 goals Since the launch of our 2020 goals in FY 2015, our business has  grown significantly through acquisition.
While these acquisitions  have impacted absolute emissions, we have continued to make progress in reducing our environmental footprint on a per unit  basis, through investments and continuous improvement.
Over the period from FY 2015 to FY 2020: 13 acquisitions incorporated  into environmental disclosures,  including major acquisitions of  CareFusion and Bard Over 650  projects related to energy, water  and waste efficiency improvements saving  $25.6 million$47.5 million  invested from a   dedicated capital fund for energy, water   and waste reduction projects1 fuel cell energy  storage upgradeSan Jose, CA4 combined  heat and power  (CHP) facilitiesFraga, Spain   Heidelberg, Germany  Cuautitlán, Mexico   Drogheda, Ireland8 solar  installationsBawal, India   Four Oaks, NC   Suzhou, China   Canaan, CT (Phase I)  Cayey, Puerto Rico   Eysins, Switzerland   Franklin Lakes, NJ   Canaan, CT (Phase II) Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance We have achieved the following against our 2020 targets:* Reduce water  consumption by 40%.
Current status FY 2020   Reduced  by 53%   TARGET ACHIEVED .Reduce ozone-depleting  substance emissions by 95%.
Current status FY 2020   Reduced  by 95%   TARGET ACHIEVED.
Reduce energy  consumption by 40%.
Current status FY 2020   Reduced  by 30%  Increase recycling rate   to over 70%.
Current status FY 2020   Increased  by 63% Increase diversion rate  to over 85%.
Current status FY 2020   Increased  by 79%  Our strategy has directly contributed to more efficient  operations and reduced energy consumption.
Diversification of  energy supply through the installation of CHP and sourcing of  renewable energy has enabled us to protect against volatility in  the energy market that could result in increased operational costs.
A heavy focus on material efficiencies (such as packaging  optimization, product density optimization for shipping, greater recycled content and material optimization/reduction) has   been another strategy to help maintain cost competitiveness.
Our work to communicate GHG emissions avoidance to key  customers has also enabled a new dialog with these stakeholders.
In some cases, this has led to opportunities to collaborate to  make further environmental improvements.Emissions Energy Waste Recycling Water consumptionReduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG  emissions by 50%.
Current status FY Reduced  by 58%   TARGET ACHIEVED.Reduce volatile organic  compound (VOC) and  hazardous air pollution  (HAP) emissions by 65%.
Current status FY 2020   Increased  by 38%   Increase use of renewable  energy to 50% of  total energy.
Current status FY 2020   Increased  by 21%   Reduce total waste   by 50%.
Current status FY 2020   Reduced  by 14% Reduce hazardous waste by  more than 60%.
Current status FY 2020   Reduced  by 42%   *From baseline year of FY Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Data collection and governance Environmental data from our global locations are collected   via a third-party data collection and analysis platform.
Our environmental inventory management plan (IMP)  documents key governance and measurement processes for  energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water and waste.
It also  defines roles, responsibilities and processes, including triggers  for recalculation and restatement (for example, merger,  acquisition or divestiture that results in a significant structural  change to the data).Improvements in our operational practices and improved  visibility to environmental performance metrics have  encouraged emissions reduction.
Operations leaders review  progress against our targets on a regular frequency.
At the  company level, progress on overall sustainability performance is  reviewed with the Executive Leadership Team.
The IMP ensures confidence of information to support decision  making, and consistent and transparent reporting.
Funding We previously established a dedicated carbon capital fund for  projects that may fall outside of traditional funding models but  have a sustainability benefit.
The fund has been used for  projects that include HVAC replacements, chiller upgrades,  compressed air upgrades and LED installations—each of which  has improved the resilience and efficiency of our operations.
In addition, the fund was able to match our traditional capital funding for a co-generation facility at our Fraga, Spain facility.
Other projects included upgrades to our fuel cell energy storage  in San Jose, California, and various major solar installation  projects.
Capital funding will continue to be identified and  allocated for projects that support achievement of our 2030+  Sustainability goals.
Best practice sharing The ATLAS initiative was implemented in 2008 to drive  environmental improvement projects within the BD Medical  segment, by reviewing performance and sharing best practices.
The initiative is now being expanded across BD with monthly  calls held by region.
In FY 2020, the Sustainability Council was established,  consisting of representatives from each business unit and  sponsored by the VP EHS&S.
Covering manufacturing locations,  distribution centers and large campuses, the group is responsible  for developing and deploying site level targets resulting from our new 2030 sustainability strategy; developing a multiyear   project pipeline and leveraging the BD network (such as the  ATLAS initiative) to standardize sharing best practices.
We utilize a number of programs to identify opportunities at our  locations, ranging from associate suggestions to more formal  on-site audits.
As part of the integration of the legacy Bard  manufacturing facilities, we have continued a program of  on-site audits to identify opportunities for emissions reductions.
All data relating to our performance can be found in the  Efficiency data tables section .
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance 2020 goal Reduce  GHG emissions and increase climate resilience throughout operations and value chain GHG emissions Our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions  continued to decline, despite an increase in  revenues; this is largely due a reduction in our  Scope 2 emissions.
In previous years we have  purchased additional unbundled Renewable Energy Credits  (RECs) to offset carbon emissions at our US facilities.
However  due to the significant increase in the market price for RECs, we are  evaluating alternative strategies, including the purchase of  carbon offsets.
After normalization, we have reduced emissions  by 58% from our baseline year of FY 2008.
Facilities continue to  identify carbon reduction opportunities as we continue working  toward newly announced 2030 climate targets for scope 1 and 2  emissions.
We also continued our commitment to increasing our use of  on-site generation and renewable energy sources, where feasible.
We provided limited reporting of Scope 3 emissions in previous  years, and in FY 2019 we continued to work with external partners  to establish baseline Scope 3 emissions across all relevant  categories.
Our largest sources of Scope 3 emissions are  estimated to be from purchased goods, distribution and the use  and disposal of products.
Therefore, these sources represent the  largest areas for opportunity and will be the subject of focus in  our future sustainability strategy.
Further information about our climate change strategy   and programs to reduce GHG emissions can be found in our   Climate Change Management Report , as well as in our  responses to the CDP  (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project).
BD  has reported to the CDP since its inception in 2003.
2020 goal Minimize  our environmental footprint and conserve natural resources  For FY 2020, we continued to invest in on-site  power generation and assessing opportunities to  reduce our environmental footprint across all sites.
Our energy consumption continued to decrease in  absolute terms and normalized terms in FY 2020.
A number of opportunities were identified including: • Replacement of HVAC units and other upgrades to more  energy efficient equipment• Process optimization resulting in the reduction of  compressed air usage • LED lighting upgrades Going forward, we are continuing to build a robust pipeline of  energy reduction projects that will reduce energy consumption  in addition to GHG emissions.
Click here to view the Energy data tables .EnergyIn FY 2020, we completed 109 projects that contributed to lowering our environmental footprint and to conserve natural resources.GRI disclosure: 201-EPA Green Power Partnership As an EPA Green Power Partner since 2008, we report our use of  renewable energy in the U.S. on an annual basis.
Details of the  Green Power Partnership and our current ranking can be found at  epa.gov /greenpower .
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance The latest on-site solar installation was completed for our  headquarters in Franklin Lakes, NJ.
The project saves roughly   7% of the annual power consumption, which equates to roughly  1,000,000 kilowatt hours annually.
That is enough to power 50  U.S. homes for a year.
It also reduces 700 metric tonnes of  carbon dioxide, the equivalent to removing 140 cars from the road.
The 1,500 solar panel project is one of our largest solar  projects to date.
We continue to identify and implement solar opportunities.
The next solar installation to come online will be at our   San Diego, CA facility.Solar Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Water management Water is vital for sustaining healthy lives and   the planet.
Having access to clean and sufficient  supply is critical for our operations and the  communities where we live, work and do business.
Water quality and quantity is fundamental to ensure that the  highest healthcare product safety standards are met.
Water  conservation is an important operational strategy, especially for  products that contain purified water.
Freshwater is used in  manufacturing, sanitation, sterilization, processing and cooling  for our direct operations.
Indirect water is used in the  manufacturing and/or processing of many raw materials used in  our products, such as resins, steel, and packaging and electrical  components.
Recycled/brackish water is used in ancillary operations, such as  cooling towers, because it does not meet quality standards for  most other uses.
Operating in accordance with local regulations that protect  people and the environment, approximately 96% of water used  at our facilities comes from, and is discharged to, third-party  sources (such as local municipal water sources).
We collect  water-related data for total withdrawals from our sites worldwide  through an online system.
This data is monitored and reviewed  on an ongoing basis.
We are committed to responsible and sustainable use of water  and strive to include water sustainability considerations in  business decisions.
We seek to achieve efficient use of water  resources at our operational locations by investing in and using  new technologies when feasible and implementing water  conservation and water management practices.
Water risk is considered part of business continuity planning.
Water-related risks within operations are identified, assessed and  addressed through the general enterprise risk management (ERM) process.
We use established water risk tools to evaluate  the basin risk and operational risk at the corporate level.
Efficiency audits are conducted at the site level to identify  opportunities for reduction of water usage and consumption.
These local site efficiency audits also include energy, waste and  emissions to provide prioritization for conservation projects.
These are projects that may reduce energy consumption along  with having a significant water reduction associated with it.
Water-related issues (such as resilience from water scarcity and  internal water efficiencies) are integrated into our long-term  business objectives.
We see opportunities to continue to improve  operational efficiencies.
Further information about our water management strategy and  programs can be found in our responses to the CDP (formerly the  Carbon Disclosure Project).
BD has reported to the CDP since its  inception in 2003.
Clean water plays a role in global health.
Damaged ecosystems  affect the quantity and quality of water available for human  consumption.
Extreme weather events are impacting water  availability and quality.
While water covers a significant amount of the planet, only 3% is  freshwater and two-thirds is locked in glaciers or otherwise  inaccessible for use.
This results in 1.1 billion people lacking  access to water, with 2.7 billion experiencing water scarcity for at  least one month of the year.
In addition, 2.4 billion people  experience inadequate sanitation, exposing them to disease and  water-borne illnesses.BD has partnered with Charity: Water  and Planet Water  in  previous years to provide clean drinking water to communities  around the world.
You can read more about our work with Planet  Water in 2020 in the Empowerment section of this report.Water Water consumption decreased in FY 2020 as a result of  continued water conservation efforts, exceeding our target of  40% reduction of water use (normalized by COPS).
Production  decreases at certain plants due to the pandemic allowed us to  carry out maintenance and upgrades to equipment, such as pumps, also contributed to reduction in water consumption.
We will continue to identify and implement viable water  reduction projects.
Click here to view the Water data table .GRI disclosure: 303-Water use Reference 1 Water scarcity.
World Wildlife Fund.
Accessed March 9, 2021.
https://www.worldwildlife.org/threats/water-scarcit y.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Waste management Effective waste prevention and management  practices are critical for protecting human health  and the environment.
BD acknowledges the  importance of responsible end disposal management for the  various types of waste generated from our operations.
Recognizing the current and future potential liabilities associated  with waste disposal is necessary to safeguard our company,  communities and planet.
We are committed to reducing nonhazard and hazardous waste  generated.
We are examining ways to move beyond the  traditional hierarchy of waste management by focusing on  opportunities to prevent waste from occurring and proactively  planning how to extend the life of materials that would  otherwise become waste.
Through management of change  processes, our manufacturing locations are required to review  and assess what waste would be generated by process changes  and design transfers.
Cross-functional teams will also evaluate source reduction and  waste minimization opportunities and will partner with our waste  disposal vendors to evaluate areas for waste reduction, reuse,  redesign and recycle.
Data associated with the generation of waste is reported by  each of our locations via an online system, and this data is  reviewed and monitored on an ongoing basis.
This enables us to  assess the type and amount of material that is being generated  and to identify opportunities for improvement that can occur on  a local or regional level.
Risks associated with the transportation, storage and disposal of  waste are identified, managed and mitigated through a series of  mechanisms, such as internal governance protocols, end disposal  selection approval process, vendor management and end  disposal site audits.
Waste performance While we continue to assess and implement waste reduction  projects, we have more work to do to improve total waste  reduction from our operations.
Disposal methods have remained  largely static, and we continue to face challenges with recycling  waste streams.
However, hazardous waste generation saw a  decrease due to operational improvements.
There were a few unique factors in FY 2020 that contributed to  our waste performance.
• Cleaning protocols introduced in response to the pandemic  contributed to increases in the hazardous and regulated  waste streams • Increased production at manufacturing facilities used for the  testing and treatment of, and vaccination against, COVID-• One-time waste generation associated with development and  start-up of new production lines • One-time disposal of expired products and product recalls Click here to view the Waste data tables .Waste  Air emissions While our facilities continued to make absolute  reductions in HAP emissions, VOC emissions have risen.
Data demonstrates areas for opportunity remain and  we will continue to reduce emissions through process  improvement projects and installation of emissions  control equipment.We continue to make progress on the reduction of  ozone-depleting substances, which are used at several  of our BD Medical facilities.
Conversion plans to  eliminate the use of HCFC141b remain in progress and  are expected to be completed as scheduled.
Click here to view the Air emissions data tables .
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) management  We set expectations of environmental, health and safety  management via three key documents: • Our EHS policy • Our Code of Conduct  • Our Expectation for Suppliers At the corporate level, BD has an EHS team, led by the VP of  Environment, Health & Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S); the VP  EHS&S reports to the company’s Executive VP Integrated Supply  Chain (EVP ISC).
Reporting to the VP EHS&S are the following  individuals with responsibility for EHS activities.
• Senior Director, EHS Governance & Compliance.
This individual  is responsible for governance and compliance activities,  including our company’s internal EHS audit program, EHS  standards and training programs and communicating EHS  matters to relevant stakeholders throughout the organization.
This individual also oversees the Global EHS Advisory Council  (see the Empowerment section for further information).
• Director, Sustainability.
In addition to stakeholder  engagement and development of our sustainability strategy,  this individual is responsible for the development of our water  stewardship and waste management programs; and  management of our EHS information management systems.
The VP EHS&S engages directly with the Executive Leadership  Team and provides a report on EHS activities to the Board on an  annual basis.
The Corporate Governance and Nominating  Committee oversees matters that involve the company’s image,  reputation and our standing as a responsible corporate citizen;  this includes EHS matters.
Training At a corporate level, we provide various training to our associates,  including new hire orientation to EHS professionals; training on  new or revised corporate EHS standards, and ongoing training for  our EHS management of information systems.
We use a variety  of training mediums, including classroom training, webinars and  on-demand compliance training via our company’s online  training system.
Individual sites are responsible for identifying site-specific EHS  training needs and implementing training programs on a variety  of EHS topics, taking into consideration the risks that are present  and any local regulatory requirements.
EHS management information systems We use global EHS management of information systems that  are provided by third-party vendors to collect and manage EHS  data, such as:• EHS incident reporting (including near misses) and corrective  action tracking • EHS performance metric reporting and tracking • Safety data sheet management In FY 2020, we identified and selected a new platform to  manage EHS incidence reporting and corrective action tracking.
This new system will eliminate multiple instances in the existing  platform, simplifying reporting and improving governance.
The new platform will go live in FY 2021.
Internal audits We have a global internal audit program covering all BD locations.
Audits are typically carried out by a third party and a  representative from the corporate EHS&S team who leads and  monitors audit performance and outcomes.
In FY 2020, the BD  EHS team implemented a new risk-based audit model which  gauges facilities on three main components: inherit risk, changes  and performance.
This enabled a more deliberate focus for  selection of sites to be audited during the year.
Executive summaries  from each initial and follow-up audit are provided to site  management, operational leaders, EHS Business unit leaders,  EVP ISC and the CEO.
All corrective actions are tracked to closure  with a follow-up audit carried out approximately six and 12  months later to verify completion.
EHS management systems To ensure continuous improvement of environmental  performance at a facility level, BD is implementing ISO  14001-certified environmental management systems at our  manufacturing sites around the world.
Currently, 46 BD sites  have ISO 14001-certified environmental management systems;  most of these sites are manufacturing locations, but also  includes HQ offices and some sales offices in Europe.
Around two-thirds of these certified locations are part of a group  certificate, where we have established standardized procedures  and methods for program implementation.
This standardized  approach allows sites to work together in a collaborative way  with extensive sharing and interaction to enhance program  effectiveness.
For example, all corrective actions are logged and  shared with all sites in the respective group certificates to  facilitate learning from each other’s experience and to take  proactive actions to prevent similar issues from happening at  other sites.
Furthermore, every EMS-certified site sets  environmental improvement objectives on an annual basis and  they are reviewed for progress quarterly.
Our plan is to continue ISO 14001 certification of remaining BD  manufacturing plants over the coming years.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance GRI disclosures: 403-1, 403-5The ISO 50001 energy management standard provides a  framework of requirements to measure and use data for better  understanding of energy use, set objectives for energy use  reduction and continually improve energy management.
Many BD facilities have a strong focus on energy management  and reduction and are pursuing many aspects of a responsible  energy management program.
We currently have two facilities  in Spain and Hungary that have implemented energy  management systems which are certified to ISO 50001.
All BD manufacturing locations have a strong focus on  occupational health and safety (OHS) management for injury  reduction and prevention.
Significant OHS risks associated with  our activities are identified and reviewed for elimination and/or  control to minimize their potential effects on our employees.
The most accepted OHS management system in the past has  been the OHSAS-18001 standard, and two BD sites in Spain and  China are certified in this standard.
The OHSAS-18001 standard  is currently being replaced by ISO-45001 and both of our sites  have converted to this new standard.
Although our other sites  are currently not formally certified in any OHS standard, their  site safety programs follow many of the elements included in  the OHSAS-18001/ISO-45001 standards.
For additional details on work carried out in FY 2020 related   to associate safety, please see our goals around achieving   best-in-class associate safety performance in the  Empowerment  section of this report.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Supplier risk management is a major focus area for BD.
The overarching strategy of the risk program is to enable  processes and procedures that reduce or eliminate the likelihood  of a supplier event affecting our continuity of supply.
We have  developed a robust assessment process to identify our “critical  to healthcare” products.
This has allowed us to prioritize risk  management best practices for not only our strategic products  but also those critical to the healthcare market.
With a   top-down directive on risk management, we have implemented  an enhanced risk model with a consistent framework across all  our business units to assess, identify, prioritize, mitigate and  monitor top risks.
The program takes a quantifiable approach to assess   multiple risk factors, including direct supplier-driven risks,   such as operational and financial risk, as well as indirect or  market-driven risks, such as natural disasters and geopolitical risks.
We continue to build our capabilities to include the identification  and monitoring of our tier-n supply chain by leveraging supplier  surveys and AI discovery services.
Additionally, we have formed  a cross-business, cross-functional and cross-regional crisis  management team to proactively monitor and respond to  events around the world that may impact our supply chain.
The program will continue to evolve as we leverage sophisticated  technologies to aid us in our journey to resiliency.2020 goal Establish  supplier responsibility evaluation methodology  BD is committed to partnering with suppliers to actively work  towards eliminating human rights abuses across our supply chain.
Our Expectations for Suppliers (EFS) document details the  minimum standards that all our suppliers must meet with regards  to human rights.
More information on this document is provided in  the following section.
On an ongoing basis, BD suppliers are analyzed annually, via a third  party, against two focus areas: industry-specific risk and geographic  or location risk.
* BD recognizes that our highest risk suppliers are  likely to be found in countries cited for having the highest  prevalence of modern slavery and human trafficking rights  violations.
Suppliers with the highest risk profiles are prioritized for  further evaluation.
Those suppliers identified as high priority and/or providing “critical  to healthcare” materials will be asked to complete an in-depth  desktop audit led by a third party, the results of which may trigger  site inspections and/or in-person audits or guide corrective actions  if deemed necessary.
BD also maintains several policies, mechanisms and trainings that  support our work in this area.
These include;  • The BD Global Human Rights Policy which prohibits the use of  forced, prison, indentured, bonded or involuntary labor in all of  BD operations, among other human rights issues; • The BD Code of Conduct that reaffirms the human rights  commitments outlined in the above policy; • The BD Global Speaking Up Policy, which encourages and  expects all associates and agents to speak up about any actual  or suspected violations of laws, regulations, the BD Code of  Conduct, BD policies or relevant industry codes, except as  prohibited by law.
Those that speak up in good faith are  protected against any form of retaliation or discipline; • The BD Ethics Helpline which allows for anonymous (where  permitted by law) and/or confidential reporting of all matters of  ethics concerns, including known or suspected human rights  abuses, both within BD and in our wider supply chain.
It is available online or via telephone in a number of  languages; and • Forced labor and human trafficking training developed by a  third party and administered annually to BD associates online.
This course explains that forced labor, also known as modern  slavery, still exists in the world and prompts the learner to  consider ways of identifying, preventing and stopping it in the  supply chain.
It also trains BD associates on how to report known  or suspected human rights abuses via our Ethics Helpline.
This course is delivered to BD associates that interact directly  and indirectly in sourcing, managing, advising on, or are  otherwise involved with our suppliers, including but not limited to  our leaders and our associates in the following departments:  Environment, Health and Safety, Procurement, Supply Chain,  Quality, R&D, Operations, Human Resources, and our Law Group.
More details on our human rights due diligence efforts in our supply  chain are provided in our compliance documents, which can be  found on the Sustainability page of bd.com .
BD Expectations for Suppliers As mentioned above, the BD Expectations for Suppliers (EFS)  document details the minimum standards that suppliers must  meet—these cover human rights standards, as well as  environmental and governance standards and ethical practices.
BD includes language that requires its suppliers represent, warrant,  and/or certify to comply with the EFS and all relevant laws in our  contracts, purchase orders and supplier terms and conditions,  among others, where failure to comply could be a breach of  contract and result in contract termination, payment of damages  and other consequences and/or remedies depending on the terms  of the agreement.
Our desktop audit program is designed, in part,  to verify compliance with the expectations laid out in  this document.
The BD Expectations for Suppliers document is available  online  in a number of languages and is updated periodically   to reflect the high standards by which BD operates.Human rights due diligence in our supply chain * Risk, in this case, is specific to human rights risk.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Supplier diversity encompasses more than simply tracking  spending or “doing the right thing”—it supports our business  values and objectives.
Being committed to supplier diversity  entails developing and implementing strategies that ensure our  supply base aligns with the diverse customers, communities and  patients we serve, as well as the diverse markets we seek.
Having a successful supplier diversity program not only supports  sustainable procurement efforts, but it is integral in how we  support the economic empowerment of underutilized and  underserved communities.
Further details on our Supplier Diversity Program can be found  on our website .
We remain committed to increasing the number of small and  diverse-owned businesses in our supply chain.
After our supplier  diversity performance was negatively impacted in FY 2019 due  to a number of merger-related data alignment factors, we have  made concerted efforts to resolve these challenges.
Through focused revision of our data tracking and management  systems, we have improved the way we capture, track and report  spend with small and diverse-owned businesses who are tier 1  and tier 2 suppliers.
With respect to the challenges small and  diverse-owned businesses face during the COVID-19 pandemic,  we have made concerted efforts to extend net terms  considerations to small business suppliers, both diverse and  non-diverse owned.
Both efforts have resulted in identifying  small and diverse-owned suppliers more accurately and in  higher quantity, thus helping to provide a more accurate picture  of our accomplishments and remaining opportunities.
Further information on how our program supports our  communities will be provided in our FY 2021 report with the  addition of our newly established annual economic   impact study.
50% 0%40% 30% 20% 10% FY 2013 FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 2015 FY 2014Total div erse spen d Disability owne d Veteran owned Woman ownedMinority/W oman owned Minority owne d90% 80% 70% 60%100% FY 2020 FY 2012Supplier Diversity Program: Percent of spend by designationSupplier diversity Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance 2020 goal Reduce  priority materials of concern in specified product categories BD actively engages in dialog with our customers and advocacy  groups to understand their position on the use of safer chemicals  for consideration in our work to reduce priority MOC.
This engagement includes our continued response to the  Chemical Footprint Project  (CFP).
The mission of the CFP is to  transform global chemical use by measuring and disclosing data on business progress to safer chemicals.
It provides a tool for  benchmarking companies as they select safer alternatives and  reduce their use of chemicals of high concern.
As in previous  years, we have chosen to make our response public and, as such,  have been recognized as a CFP 2020 Disclosure Leader.Chemical Footprint Project PVC is used in medical devices for a number of reasons,  including its ease of processing and the ability to tailor its  properties to a range of applications.
It has allowed for the  development of single-use devices, reducing the risk of infection  due to multiuse devices.
PVC comes in two forms; un-plasticized  PVC which is rigid, and plasticized PVC, where additives are  introduced to change the properties of the material.
Plasticized PVC has a number of favorable properties, such as  flexibility (allowing for ease of use for healthcare professionals  and comfort to the patient); kink resistance, providing  confidence that fluids and gases will flow unhindered and stay  resilient against potential damage.
There are a number of challenges to replacing PVC in existing  product lines.
It requires conversion to non-like materials, which  can impact performance (such as the favorable properties  noted above), manufacturability and the ability to meet  functional requirements.
DEHP is a common plasticizer, used most often in PVC to make  it flexible.
DEHP is one of several phthalates that are heavily  regulated and, in some cases, restricted for use in certain  medical devices due to known health impacts for certain classes  of patients.
In Europe, the Medical Device Regulation1 SCHEER  Guidelines2 require phthalates to undergo more complex   benefit/risk/alternative assessments than other MOCs. In addition to the increasing regulatory restrictions and health  impacts of DEHP, we recognized the environmental concerns  that our stakeholders—particularly customers—have about  PVC.
This prompted our efforts to reduce the use of PVC and  DEHP in our products as part of our 2020 sustainability strategy.
Using knowledge gained from the development of the   BD Nexiva ™ Closed IV Catheter System, a PVC-free product which  uses thermoplastic urethane tubing, * further products were developed and launched, including peripheral IV catheters, IV  extension sets and catheter extension sets, such as: • BD™ Gravity IV Sets, launched in FY 2017 in the CSA, Europe  and Japan regions.
These advanced gravity IV sets contain  features such as anti-run dry technology, autoprime caps,  needle-free injection ports and non-DEHP materials.
These products have non-PVC material options made   from thermoplastic elastomers (TPE).
• BD Pegasus Plus ™, a closed IV catheter with features for  preventing needlestick injuries.
It was launched in the  Chinese market in February 2016.
The product contains  extension tubing made from polyurethane, replacing DEHP- plasticized PVC that was used in the previous version of  the product.
• BD Intima II PLUS ™ was launched for the Chinese market in  2015.
It meets basic requirements for infusion and meets  additional requirements for pediatric, gynecology, oncology,  CT and specialty infusion processes.
The new product is  made from polyurethane, replacing DEHP-plasticized PVC  that was used in the previous version of the product.DevicesDetails of how we manage materials of concern (MOC) can be found in the Product Safety  section of this report.
* Launched in the USA in FY References 1 Regulation (EU) 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017 on medical devices, amending Directive 2001/83/EC, Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 and Regulation  (EC) No 1223/2009 and repealing Council Directives 90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32017R2 Guidelines on the benefit-risk assessment of the presence of phthalates in certain medical devices covering phthalates which are carcinogenic, mutagenic, toxic to reproduction (CMR) or  have endocrine-disurpting (ED) propertiesPerformance BD is working to reduce priority MOC *   in each of the following product categories: Devices:    PVC and phthalates Instruments:    Phthalates, brominated flame retardants (BFRs)   and heavy metals Packaging: PVC and expanded polystyrene *Intentionally added Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance We are accelerating the pace of qualifying alternatives to DEHP  and, in some instances, assessing substitute materials to replace  plasticized PVC or designing out components that contain  plasticized PVC.
While removal of DEHP and/or PVC is not always  possible, strategies have included development of products  without DEHP and/or PVC in certain product categories,  providing an alternative choice for our customers.
With a large portfolio of products, conversion away from DEHP  and plasticized PVC—where feasible—will take time.
In addition,  we face regulatory complexities in certain regions of the world  which still prefer DEHP and don’t yet allow alternatives due to  potential safety concerns.
Instruments In 2017, we completed product changes that eliminate certain  heavy metals and flame retardants and brought impacted  monitoring and control instruments into compliance with the  E.U. RoHS Directive.1 Subsequent inclusion of certain phthalates  in the directive2 impacted only a small number of products.
Products have been redesigned to remove the  restricted substances.Packaging We continue to utilize PVC and expanded polystyrene (EPS) in  certain packaging systems, such as trays.
While alternative  materials are being assessed, they do not always offer the same  functional properties.
For example, EPS packaging is required to  withstand significant weights.
Its light weight is also an  important factor when considering the significant impact  transportation and distribution can have over the life cycle of our  products.
Taking a life cycle assessment approach to assessing  current materials used in packaging applications will allow us to  identify hotspots and areas for opportunity.
In addition to  assessing alternative materials, areas for opportunity may  include light-weighting, or extending the useful life of packaging  materials through reuse or recycling.
References 1 Directive 2011/65/E.U. of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2011 on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in  electrical and electronic equipment.
2 Commission Delegated Directive (EU) 2015/863 of 31 March 2015 amending Annex II to Directive 2011/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the  Council as regards the list of restricted substances.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance 2020 goal Improve  life cycle impacts of current and future products Transportation and distribution activities are a significant  contributor to our Scope 3 emissions and, in some cases, a  significant contributor to the individual footprint of products.
Utilizing electric vehicles for  deliveries in Brazil In FY 2020, our Supply Chain team in Brazil began using two  electric vehicles (EVs) to deliver products to key accounts inside  the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo.
BD is the first company in  the healthcare segment to use EVs to make deliveries in Brazil.
Many hospitals and labs do not carry inventory, therefore reliable  deliveries are critical.
Use of EVs helps to ensure business  continuity, for example when availability of gasoline and   diesel is limited (as experienced during the strikes in 2018).
Additionally, EVs are exempt from rules in place in Sao Paulo  aimed at reducing emissions from vehicles.
Routing procedures were adapted to consider the size of the  vehicle and maximum distance of travel between charges.
The EVs are able to make deliveries in two cycles each day,  charging in between.
In the first 6 months of use, it is estimated  that nearly 1,800 deliveries were made, covering 34,800 km,  preventing around 8,400 kg CO2-e of emissions.Due to the success of this program, we are looking to expand to  other countries in Latin America, specifically large metro cities  which have vehicle restrictions in place aimed at reducing  CO2 emissions.
SmartWay BD has been a U.S. EPA Transport SmartWay® partner since 2010.
The SmartWay  transport partnership provides a framework to  assess the environmental and energy efficiency of goods  movement supply chains.LogisticsBD continues to focus efforts on improving the life cycle impacts of our products.
In 2020, we continued our engagement with the Healthcare  Plastics Recycling Council (HPRC) both in the United States and  the European Union, and the Sustainable Healthcare Coalition  (SHC) in Europe.
The activities we undertake as part of our  engagement with these entities support, among other projects,  our efforts to limit and minimize waste produced during the life  cycle of our products.
Reducing end-of-life impacts of syringes  used for vaccinations As noted in the COVID-19 section of this report, BD is supplying a  significant number of syringes to support vaccination programs  around the world.
Due to the presence of sharps and patient  contact, end-of-life disposal options for syringes are limited due  to technical and regulatory challenges.
However, there are certain components, such as needle shields and packaging that  may be recycled where facilities exist.
Information to enable end  users to properly dispose of or recycle products and packaging  components, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements,  is available on bd.com .
Product takeback Where required by law, we participate in compliance schemes to  ensure responsible collection, management and disposal  (including recycling) of packaging, batteries and waste electrical  and electronic equipment.
For details regarding product donations, please refer to the  Empowerment  section of this report.Supporting reduction of end-of-life impacts Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance GRI disclosure: 301-3   SASB disclosure: HC-MS-410a.We continue to manage the end-of-life disposal of products from  the BD Pyxis ™ Portfolio at our San Diego, CA facility by recovering  materials and components for refurbishment or recycling.
In FY 2020, 18,746 units were processed through our facility,  representing 3,529 metric tonnes of materials that were either  refurbished, reused or recycled.
No materials were disposed of  via landfill.While there have been challenges due to recycled commodity  pricing, we will continue to explore opportunities to improve the  end-of-life disposal options for products through programs such  as this.
Where product take-back is not appropriate or viable, we  will look to alternatives, such as cross-industry partnerships found  in HPRC.
These programs will be just one element of our 2030  sustainability strategy to improve the product impacts.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance FY 2020 efficiency targets— performance data tables Solar panels installed at Canaan, CT site.
A total of 2.9 mega-watts are generated from solar panels at this site.
Restatement of data In FY 2020, we reviewed our reporting boundary and excluded 20  sites that were divested between 2010 and 2018.
Therefore, data  from these divested sites were removed back to the baseline  year 2008.
We have included data for 11 new sites, two of  which were acquisitions in FY 2019.
Energy usage for the two  acquired sites have been back casted to the baseline year 2008.
The overall impact from the boundary update has led to a  general decrease in utility and emissions from all historical  years, including the baseline FY 2008, compared to what   was reported last year.Notes on data Bard For most performance indicators, we have included data for  Bard back to our baseline year of FY 2008; however, in   a few instances, no historical data was available.
This is noted  where applicable.
To allow for year-on-year comparability and transparency, we  are reporting performance data separately for both legacy BD  and Bard organizations across all performance indicators, in  addition to combined performance data.
In previous years, we used COPs to normalize data for legacy   Bard.
As Bard is now fully integrated into BD, we have used  GAAP COPs for BD Interventional as a proxy to normalize   FY 2020 data from legacy Bard locations.
Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentGHG emissions—Scope 1 and Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Total GHG emissions Scope 1 absolute (metric tonnes  CO2-e), legacy Bard11,093 11,093 11,093 11,067 14,680 16,618 20,506 17,297 16,247 23,702 36,621 16,291 15,Scope 1 normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy Bard12 12 11 10 13 14 16 13 12 16 36 12 Scope 1 absolute (metric tonnes  CO2-e), legacy BD85,240 86,078 84,441 78,232 78,059 75,532 72,654 72,097 72,361 87,092 97,994 101,421 101,Scope 1 normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy BD18 18 17 15 14 13 12 13 11 14 13 13 Scope 1 absolute (metric tonnes  CO2-e), combined96,333 97,171 95,534 89,299 92,739 92,150 93,160 89,394 88,607 110,794 134,615 117,712 116,Scope 1 normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS), combined17 17 16 14 14 14 13 13 11 15 15 13 Scope 2 absolute (metric tonnes  CO2-e), legacy Bard62,328 59,127 60,943 59,513 59,742 58,656 60,257 68,769 67,226 73,472 65,467 69,990 69,Scope 2 normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy Bard67 62 60 55 53 50 48 53 50 51 64 51 Scope 2 absolute (metric tonnes  CO2-e), legacy BD452,473 403,250 341,460 314,034 264,553 223,997 230,363 195,246 145,879 126,597 135,199 170,103 247,Scope 2 normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy BD95 85 67 59 48 40 38 35 22 21 18 22 Scope 2 absolute (metric tonnes  CO2-e), combined514,801 462,377 402,403 373,547 324,295 282,654 290,620 264,015 213,105 200,069 200,666 240,093 316,Scope 2 normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS), combined91 81 66 58 49 41 40 38 27 26 23 27 Total absolute (metric tonnes CO2-e),  legacy Bard73,421 70,220 72,036 70,580 74,422 75,274 80,763 86,065 83,472 97,174 102,087 86,281 84,Total normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy Bard79 74 71 65 66 64 65 66 62 67 100 62 % reduction from baseline 21% Total absolute (metric tonnes CO2-e),  legacy BD537,714 489,329 425,901 392,266 342,612 299,530 303,016 267,343 218,240 213,689 233,193 271,524 348,Total normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS), legacy BD113 103 83 74 62 53 50 48 34 35 30 36 % reduction from baseline 62% Total absolute (metric tonnes CO2-e),  combined611,134 559,549 497,937 462,846 417,034 374,804 383,780 353,409 301,712 310,863 335,281 357,805 433,Total normalized (metric tonnes  CO2-e per $M COPS), combined108 98 81 72 63 55 52 51 39 41 38 40 % reduction from baseline 58% 2020 goal: Reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 50% (normalized to COPS).
Current status: Reduced by 58% TARGET ACHIEVED   Data represents Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect from electricity) energy sources.
BD uses emission factors that are temporally, geographically and technologically accurate for each site and source within its operational boundary as specified by the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol.
This includes updating electric power emission factors to reflect changes in the  grid mix for areas in which BD operates.
In general, historical emission factors remain consistent with the publication that was most recent at the time of original reporting.2020 goal Reduce  GHG emissions and increase climate resilience throughout operations and value chain  Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard  combined GRI disclosures: 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentGHG emissions—Scope Measurement and UOM  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY GHG (absolute) (metric tonnes Co2-e) Purchased goods and services  966,282 1,069,505 1,065,132 1,147,55211,147,Capital goods  42,728 37,691 39,602 21,516221,Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2)3106,340 103,995 106,451 106,360 101,856 105,617 111,946 101,392 91,Upstream transportation and distribution  72,640 125,904 280,636 286,0511258,Waste generated in operations115,266 15,302 13,789 13,071 15,465 15,380 19,239 19,359 19,Business travel435,273 38,230 41,171 68,259 107,049 95,612 117,116 147,795 88,Employee commuting 1,743 9,157 13,061 4,888 102,232 73,195 83,829 138,010152,Upstream leased assets 27,094 47,011 32,299 1,35951,Downstream transportation and distribution Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevantProcessing of sold products Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevantUse of sold products 263,924 298,638 326,682 415,8821435,End-of-life treatment of sold products 87,558 97,082 191,821 192,440 7132,Downstream leased assets Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant61,52451,Franchises Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevantInvestments Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant6Not relevant2020 goal: Establish Scope 3 GHG emission baselines for categories applicable to BD.
Current status: We provided limited reporting of Scope 3 emissions in previous years, and in FY 2020 we continued to work with external partners to  establish baseline Scope 3 emissions across all categories.
This information is being used to inform future strategy and to establish targets for reduction.
2020 goal: Initiate climate resilience planning for BD facilities.
Current status: As the devastating hurricanes across the U.S. in 2017 demonstrated, resilience planning for extreme weather events is essential to ensure operations are  restored as quickly as possible.
Work continues to be carried to deepen our understanding of potential risks to our supply chain and operations, to ensure potential impacts are mitigated or reduced.
Further information can be found in  our Climate Change Management Report.
1 Includes Bard.
2 Includes Bard.
Reduction is driven by change in sector classification, which have lower capital goods emission intensities.
3 Data for all years reported has been recalculated to include Bard.
Data for all years also now includes emissions related to transmission and distribution losses and well to tank emissions from all energy sources, not just electric power.
(In prior years we disclosed emissions related to  transmission and distribution losses from electric power only.)   4 FY 2019 and FY 2020 includes Bard.
FY 2016 and FY 2017 have been restated due to error in earlier calculations.
5 Includes Bard.
Significant decrease due to more accurate data used in calculations.
6 Relevance based on 1% threshold relative to total Scope 3 emissions inventory.
Determined this category to be not relevant to the company’s business activities and did not estimate the associated GHG emissions.
7 Emissions are for a subset of our company’s portfolio only.
GRI disclosure: 305-Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentEnergy Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Total energy consumption Scope 1 absolute (GJ), legacy Bard 215,241 215,241 215,241 215,241 266,085 297,752 376,921 329,117 312,945 410,851 617,098 309,637 289,Scope 1 normalized (GJ per $M COPS),  legacy Bard231 227 213 200 238 254 302 253 233 285 607 224 Scope 1 absolute (GJ), legacy BD 1,595,001 1,614,825 1,584,194 1,473,342 1,452,446 1,351,514 1,365,597 1,356,050 1,361,896 1,663,909 1,875,420 1,945,456 1,951,Scope 1 normalized (GJ per $M COPS),  legacy BD336 341 310 277 263 240 225 243 210 272 244 255 Scope 1 absolute (GJ), combined 1,810,242 1,830,066 1,799,435 1,688,583 1,718,531 1,649,265 1,742,518 1,685,167 1,674,841 2,074,759 2,492,518 2,255,092 2,240,Scope 1 normalized (GJ per $M COPS),  combined318 322 294 264 259 242 238 245 214 274 286 251 Scope 2 absolute (GJ), legacy Bard 428,405 429,481 429,578 429,578 443,139 454,612 475,974 541,190 556,285 604,081 595,166 579,184 565,Scope 2 normalized (GJ per $M COPS),  legacy Bard460 454 425 398 396 388 381 416 414 419 586 418 Scope 2 absolute (GJ), legacy BD 3,284,961 3,239,706 3,335,681 3,353,830 3,332,961 3,429,182 3,507,524 3,456,404 3,498,860 3,552,016 3,637,374 3,709,835 3,683,Scope 2 normalized (GJ per $M COPS),  legacy BD691 683 653 629 603 608 577 619 539 580 473 487 Scope 2 absolute (GJ), combined 3,713,366 3,669,188 3,765,258 3,783,408 3,776,100 3,883,794 3,983,498 3,997,594 4,055,145 4,156,097 4,232,540 4,289,019 4,248,Scope 2 normalized (GJ per $M COPS),  combined653 645 615 591 568 570 544 580 518 549 486 476 Total absolute (GJ), legacy Bard  643,646 644,722 644,818 644,818 709,224 752,363 852,895 870,307 869,231 1,014,932 1,212,264 888,821 854,Total normalized (GJ per $M COPS),  legacy Bard690 681 637 598 633 642 682 669 647 703 1,193 642 % reduction from baseline 9% Total absolute (GJ), legacy BD 4,879,962 4,854,532 4,919,875 4,827,173 4,785,408 4,780,696 4,873,121 4,812,455 4,860,756 5,215,924 5,512,793 5,655,290 5,634,Total normalized (GJ per $M COPS),  legacy BD1,027 1,024 962 906 866 847 802 861 749 851 716 742 % reduction from baseline 33% Total absolute (GJ), combined 5,523,608 5,499,254 5,564,693 5,471,991 5,494,632 5,533,059 5,726,017 5,682,762 5,729,986 6,230,856 6,725,057 6,544,112 6,489,Total normalized (GJ per $M COPS),  combined972 967 909 854 827 812 781 825 731 823 772 727 % reduction from baseline 30% 2020 goal: Reduce energy consumption by 40% (normalized by COPS).
Current stat: Reducedced by 30% Data represents Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect from electricity) energy sources.2020 goal Minimize  our environmental footprint and conserve natural resources GRI disclosures: 302-1, 302-3, 302- Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard  combined Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentEnergy Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Renewable energy (RECs, green power)—combined Electric power (GJ) 3,713,366 3,669,188 3,765,258 3,783,408 3,776,100 3,883,794 3,983,498 3,997,594 4,055,145 4,156,097 4,232,540 4,289,019 4,237,Green energy (GJ) 104,745 161,475 181,361 264,315 202,821 170,913 99,492 97,626 246,777 448,020 345,797 580,285 608,Renewable energy credit (REC)  purchased (GJ)18,547 133,415 570,815 670,714 1,012,696 1,318,215 1,326,356 1,492,190 1,817,926 2,020,847 1,896,194 1,476,279 678,Renewable energy offsite—direct  (physical) PPA (GJ)50,Renewable power - on site (GJ) 1,218 1,203 1,344 2,667 1,099 1,229 1,131 1,Total green power 123,293 294,890 752,176 935,030 1,215,517 1,490,347 1,427,051 1,591,160 2,067,370 2,469,966 2,243,220 2,057,695 1,337,As part of electric power consumption: % from REC purchases 0.5% 4% 15% 18% 27% 34% 33% 37% 45% 49% 45% 34% 16% % from green energy 3% 4% 5% 7% 5% 4% 2% 2% 6% 11% 8% 14% 14% % from direct PPA 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 1% % from on-site generation 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% % of all green power 3% 8% 20% 25% 32% 38% 36% 40% 51% 59% 53% 48% 32% As part of total energy: % from RECs 0.3% 2% 10% 12% 18% 24% 23% 26% 32% 32% 28% 23% 10% % of all renewable energy sourced  and generated2% 5% 14% 17% 22% 27% 25% 28% 36% 40% 33% 31% 21% 2020 goal:  Increase renewable energy consumption by 50% of total energy (absolute).
Current status:  Increased to 21% GRI disclosure: 302-Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentWater Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Water consumption Water (cubic meters), legacy Bard 919,476 927,676 927,676 927,676 935,769 903,390 904,646 909,787 918,124 895,182 938,842 686,256 505,Water - Groundwater (cubic meters),  legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 275,757 266,040 285,Water - Rainwater (cubic meters),  legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Water - Recycled (cubic meters),   legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Water - Surface water (cubic meters),  legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,239 0 Absolute (cubic meters),   legacy Bard919,476 927,676 927,676 927,676 935,769 903,390 904,646 909,787 918,124 895,182 1,215,838 952,296 791,Normalized (cubic meters per $M  COPS), legacy Bard986 980 917 860 836 771 724 699 683 620 1,197 688 % reduction from baseline,   legacy Bard41% Water (cubic meters), legacy BD 4,583,955 4,220,395 3,809,810 3,834,116 3,889,155 4,020,578 4,221,694 4,450,833 4,399,485 3,902,538 3,835,244 3,696,898 3,465,Water - Groundwater (cubic meters),  legacy BD71,878 76,400 73,188 81,361 72,860 64,179 53,377 33,988 40,747 34,398 11,369 18,979 20,Water - Rainwater (cubic meters),  legacy BD0 0 45 60 60 60 1,297 1,851 1,660 1,340 1,285 1,629 Water - Recycled (cubic meters),  legacy BD42,885 27,052 56,220 47,851 31,167 24,043 25,349 6,522 11,954 3,582 3,061 3,174 3,Water - Surface water (cubic meters),  legacy BD0 0 33,869 61,955 74,218 56,445 80,132 86,135 84,446 85,700 103,870 129,714 154,Absolute (cubic meters), legacy BD 4,698,717 4,323,846 3,973,133 4,025,344 4,067,460 4,165,305 4,381,849 4,579,329 4,538,292 4,027,558 3,954,830 3,850,394 3,643,Normalized (cubic meters per $M  COPS), legacy BD989 912 777 756 736 738 721 820 699 657 514 505 % reduction from baseline, legacy BD 55% Absolute (cubic meters), combined 5,618,193 5,251,522 4,900,808 4,953,020 5,003,229 5,068,694 5,286,495 5,489,116 5,456,416 4,922,740 5,170,668 4,802,690 4,435,Normalized (cubic meters per $M  COPS), combined988 924 800 773 753 744 721 797 696 650 593 534 % reduction from baseline, combined 53% 2020 goal: Reduce water consumption by 40% (normalized by COPS).
Current status:  Reduced by 53%.
TARGET ACHIEVED GRI disclosure: 303- Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard  combined Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentWater Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Waste water discharge Absolute (cubic meters),   legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 185,028 242,905 242,536 248,418 350,708 787,000 837,735 806,Normalized (cubic meters per $M  COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 158 194 186 185 243 775 605 % discharge, legacy Bard 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 20% 27% 27% 27% 39% 65% 88% 102% Absolute (cubic meters), legacy BD 3,399,366 3,220,323 2,671,884 2,757,745 3,000,525 2,996,344 3,232,445 3,165,895 3,156,006 2,926,977 3,151,365 3,412,453 3,069,Normalized (cubic meters per $M  COPS), legacy BD715 679 523 518 543 531 532 567 486 478 409 448 % discharge, legacy BD 72% 74% 67% 69% 74% 72% 74% 69% 70% 73% 80% 89% 84% Absolute (cubic meters), combined 3,399,366 3,220,323 2,671,884 2,757,745 3,000,525 3,181,372 3,475,350 3,408,431 3,404,423 3,277,684 3,938,365 4,250,188 3,876,Normalized (cubic meters per $M  COPS), combined1598 566 436 430 452 467 474 495 434 433 452 472 % discharge, combined 61% 61% 55% 56% 60% 63% 66% 62% 62% 67% 76% 88% 87% 1 Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
GRI disclosure: 303- Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard  combined Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentWaste—nonhazardous Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Total nonhazardous waste generated Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy Bard 4,673 4,673 4,673 4,673 4,673 5,145 5,737 7,156 7,581 8,692 12,327 9,379 11,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M COPS),  including regulated waste,   legacy Bard5.01 4.94 4.62 4.33 4.17 4.39 4.59 5.50 5.64 6.02 12.13 6.78 8.% reduction from baseline,   legacy Bard-64% Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy BD 43,232 42,161 43,804 42,742 42,884 43,578 42,114 40,842 45,211 46,189 54,690 58,085 57,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M COPS),  including regulated waste, legacy BD9.10 8.89 8.57 8.02 7.76 7.72 6.93 7.31 6.96 7.54 7.10 7.62 7.% reduction from baseline, legacy BD 22% Absolute (metric tonnes), combined 47,904 46,834 48,477 47,414 47,557 48,724 47,851 47,998 52,792 54,881 67,018 67,464 69,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M COPS),  including regulated waste, combined8.43 8.24 7.92 7.40 7.16 7.15 6.53 6.97 6.74 7.25 7.69 7.49 7.% reduction from baseline, combined 14% 2020 goal:  Reduce total waste by 50% (normalized by COPS).
Current status:  Reduced by 14% Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Nonhazardous waste landfilled Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy Bard 1,647 1,647 1,647 1,647 1,647 1,905 2,329 2,612 2,668 2,935 3,489 3,524 2,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M COPS),  legacy Bard1.77 1.74 1.63 1.53 1.47 1.63 1.86 2.01 1.99 2.03 3.43 2.55 2.% landfilled, legacy Bard 35% 35% 35% 35% 35% 37% 41% 36% 35% 34% 28% 38% 25% % diversion, legacy Bard 65% 65% 65% 65% 65% 63% 59% 64% 65% 66% 72% 62% 75% Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy BD 23,347 22,191 18,777 14,046 12,342 11,726 8,897 7,855 9,405 9,341 11,963 12,248 11,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M COPS),  legacy BD4.91 4.68 3.67 2.64 2.23 2.08 1.46 1.41 1.45 1.52 1.55 1.61 1.% landfilled, legacy BD 54% 53% 43% 33% 29% 27% 21% 19% 21% 20% 22% 21% 20% % diversion, legacy BD 46% 47% 57% 67% 71% 73% 79% 81% 79% 80% 78% 79% 80% Absolute (metric tonnes), combined 24,994 23,838 20,424 15,693 13,989 13,631 11,226 10,467 12,074 12,276 15,452 15,772 14,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M COPS),  combined4.40 4.19 3.34 2.45 2.10 2.00 1.53 1.52 1.54 1.62 1.77 1.75 1.% landfilled, combined 52% 51% 42% 33% 29% 28% 23% 22% 23% 22% 23% 23% 21% % diversion, combined 48% 49% 58% 67% 71% 72% 77% 78% 77% 78% 77% 77% 79% 2020 goal:  Increase diversion rate by over 85% (absolute as % of total nonhazardous waste).
Current status:  Increased to 79% GRI disclosure: 306-5GRI disclosure: 306- Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard  combined Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentWaste—nonhazardous Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Nonhazardous waste incinerated Absolute (metric tonnes),   legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 212 203 Normalized (Metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.02 0.21 0.15 0.% incinerated, legacy Bard 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0% 2% 2% 2% Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy BD 2,770 2,667 2,759 2,275 2,778 4,073 4,123 3,485 5,928 6,232 8,156 9,712 10,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy BD0.58 0.56 0.54 0.43 0.50 0.72 0.68 0.62 0.91 1.02 1.06 1.27 1.% incinerated, legacy BD 6% 6% 6% 5% 6% 9% 10% 9% 13% 13% 15% 17% 19% Absolute (metric tonnes), combined 2,770 2,667 2,759 2,275 2,778 4,073 4,123 3,485 5,928 6,254 8,368 9,915 11,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), combined10.49 0.47 0.45 0.36 0.42 0.60 0.56 0.51 0.76 0.83 0.96 1.10 1.% incinerated, combined 6% 6% 6% 5% 6% 8% 9% 7% 11% 11% 12% 15% 16% 1 Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Nonhazardous waste recycled Absolute (metric tonnes),   legacy Bard3,026 3,026 3,026 3,026 3,026 3,240 3,408 4,545 4,913 5,735 8,626 5,652 8,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy Bard3.25 3.20 2.99 2.80 2.70 2.77 2.73 3.49 3.66 3.97 8.49 4.08 5.% recycled, legacy Bard 65% 65% 65% 65% 65% 63% 59% 64% 65% 66% 70% 60% 73% Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy BD 17,114 17,303 22,268 26,421 27,764 27,779 29,094 29,501 29,878 30,617 34,572 36,125 35,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy BD3.60 3.65 4.36 4.96 5.02 4.92 4.79 5.28 4.60 5.00 4.49 4.74 4.% recycled, legacy BD 40% 41% 51% 62% 65% 64% 69% 72% 66% 66% 63% 62% 61% Absolute (metric tonnes), combined 20,140 20,329 25,294 29,446 30,790 31,019 32,503 34,046 34,791 36,351 43,198 41,777 43,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), combined3.54 3.57 4.13 4.60 4.63 4.55 4.44 4.94 4.44 4.80 4.96 4.64 4.% recycled, combined 42% 43% 52% 62% 65% 64% 68% 71% 66% 66% 64% 62% 63% 2020 goal:  Increase recycling rate by over 70% (absolute as % of total nonhazardous waste).
Current status:  Increased to 63% GRI disclosures: 306-4GRI disclosures: 306- Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard  combined Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentWaste—regulated Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Regulated waste (biohazardous and controlled waste) Absolute (metric tonnes),   legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 187 276 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.18 0.20 0.Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy BD 196 181 693 923 840 680 995 1,206 1,079 1,094 934 1,052 1,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy BD0.04 0.04 0.14 0.17 0.15 0.12 0.16 0.22 0.17 0.18 0.12 0.14 0.Absolute (metric tonnes), combined 196 181 693 923 840 680 995 1,206 1,079 1,099 1,121 1,329 1,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), combined10.03 0.03 0.11 0.14 0.13 0.10 0.14 0.18 0.14 0.15 0.13 0.15 0.1 Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2,008 baseline.
Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Hazardous waste generation Absolute (metric tonnes),   legacy Bard324 324 324 324 333 439 1,057 1,142 1,053 1,182 1,153 903 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy Bard0.35 0.34 0.32 0.30 0.30 0.37 0.85 0.88 0.78 0.82 1.14 0.65 0.% reduction, legacy Bard -90% Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy BD 2,718 2,103 2,523 2,043 1,854 1,826 1,646 1,739 1,866 1,753 2,088 1,786 2,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy BD0.57 0.44 0.49 0.38 0.34 0.32 0.27 0.31 0.29 0.29 0.27 0.23 0.% reduction, legacy BD 56% Absolute (metric tonnes), combined 3,041 2,427 2,846 2,367 2,187 2,264 2,704 2,881 2,919 2,935 3,241 2,688 2,Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), combined0.54 0.43 0.46 0.37 0.33 0.33 0.37 0.42 0.37 0.39 0.37 0.30 0.% reduction, combined 42% 2020 goal:  Reduce hazardous waste by more than 60% (normalized by COPS).
Current status:  Reduced by 42%Waste—hazardous GRI disclosure: 306-3GRI disclosure: 306- Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard  combined Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentVOC emissions Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY VOC emissions Absolute (metric tonnes),   legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 182 155 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.18 0.11 0.Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy BD1189 136 106 104 132 123 139 138 148 183 212 200 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy BD0.04 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.Absolute (metric tonnes), combined 189 136 106 104 132 123 139 138 148 183 394 355 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), combined20.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.05 0.04 0.1 Absolute legacy BD restated back to FY 2008 baseline,  due to removal of duplicate VOC data.
2 Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
HAPs emissions Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY HAPs emissions Absolute (metric tonnes),   legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 82 79 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M COPS),  legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.08 0.06 0.Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy BD 15 13 23 23 18 17 14 12 16 23 26 21 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M COPS),  legacy BD0.003 0.003 0.004 0.004 0.003 0.003 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.004 0.003 0.003 0.Absolute (metric tonnes), combined 15 13 23 23 18 17 14 12 16 23 107 100 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M COPS),  combined10.003 0.002 0.004 0.004 0.003 0.003 0.002 0.002 0.002 0.003 0.012 0.011 0.1 Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
GRI disclosures: 305- Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard  combined Efficiency data tablesAccess Innovation Governance Efficiency EmpowermentVOC + HAPs emissions Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY VOC + HAPs emissions Absolute (metric tonnes),   legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 264 235 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.26 0.17 0.% reduction, legacy Bard 45% Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy BD1204 149 128 127 150 141 153 150 164 207 237 220 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy BD0.04 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.03 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.% reduction, legacy BD 21% Absolute (metric tonnes), combined 204 149 128 127 150 141 153 150 164 207 501 455 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), combined20.04 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.06 0.05 0.% reduction, combined -38% 2020 goal:  Reduce VOC and HAPs emissions by 65% (normalized by COPS).
Current status:  Increased by 38% 1 Absolute legacy BD restated back to FY 2008 baseline,  due to removal of duplicate VOC data.
2 Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized  performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
Ozone-depleting substances emissions Measurement and UOM FY 2008  baseline  FY 2009  FY 2010  FY 2011  FY 2012  FY 2013  FY 2014  FY 2015  FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY Ozone-depleting substances emissions Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy   Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy Bard0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Absolute (metric tonnes), legacy BD 323 274 249 254 235 236 228 218 192 185 172 103 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), legacy BD0.07 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.01 0.Absolute (metric tonnes), combined 323 274 249 254 235 236 228 218 192 185 172 103 Normalized (metric tonnes per $M  COPS), combined20.06 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.% reduction, combined 95% 2020 goal:  Reduce ozone-depleting substance emissions by 95% (normalized by COPS).
Current status:  Reduced by 95% TARGET ACHIEVED 2020 goal:  100% elimination of use of HCFC141b in manufacturing.
Current status:  While a number of our facilities have completed conversion plans and eliminated the use of hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC), we continue to make  progress implementing conversion plans at remaining facilities and expect to complete all conversions as scheduled.
1 Absolute legacy Bard data for FY 2019  restated due to data error.
2 Combined COPS were used to calculate normalized performance back to FY 2008 baseline.
GRI disclosures: 305-6GRI disclosures: 305- Legacy Bard  Legacy BD BD + Bard  combined Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Our Purpose is a promise.
Those words truly capture the culture  that is BD.
With our Purpose of advancing the world of health ™  driving everything we do, the role of inclusion and diversity at  BD is clear.
Following the acquisitions of CareFusion and Bard within   a three-year span, we had a very unique opportunity to create a  culture that was authentic to the new organization and position  inclusion and diversity as a top priority.
We lead with “inclusion”  intentionally because we recognized the need to bring three  distinct cultures together, and we could only do that successfully  if we developed a new, inclusive culture.
We took the “best of  the best” of the three to ensure each organization truly felt a  part of the new whole.
As the new BD, we recognized that to best serve our diverse  patients and customers, and in order to attract and retain the  best talent, we must be committed to building and engaging  inclusive and diverse teams.
In addition, appreciating  individuals, and leveraging their unique ideas, backgrounds and  experiences would deliver better outcomes for our global  marketplace and our customers.
We’ve realized this vision by actively developing systems,  processes and tools, and we’re very proud of the progress we’ve  made.
The steps we are taking ensure we are fair and that our  associates, no matter where they come from or where they are,  feel valued and comfortable being themselves at work, and  have an opportunity to contribute, succeed and realize  their potential.
Our commitment to inclusion and diversity has never been more  important and valuable than during the challenges we were all  presented in 2020.
With broad feelings of uncertainty,   a need to feel connected to the organization and each other,  and racial injustice, it was necessary that we did not shy away from the difficult conversations and demonstrate ours is a  culture where we can address the tough topics head on to  provide associates the outlet they needed.
While we’re proud of the foundation we’ve built and the  progress we’ve made to support associates and our  communities, we still have much more work to do.
FY 2021  marks the beginning of a three-year strategy that will further  advance inclusion and diversity within BD, our communities and  industry, and bring about a more equitable and just world.
At BD, our Purpose is a promise and is central to our culture,   The BD WAY.
We live our values and improve every day our  individual and collective sense of belonging, our commitment   to helping each other be great, and the firm belief that inclusion  and diversity make us a stronger team as we work together  advancing the world of health ™.
Johnel Evans   Vice President, Global Inclusion Diversity & EquityIntroduction We profoundly respect that what we do is for the good of people.
That’s why BD associates work with  humanity and kindness across cultures, regions and relationships.
It is the behavior that is necessary to  be responsible global citizens.
It is what it means to care.Empowerment Positive workforce and community impacts Letter from our Inclusion Diversity and Equity office Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Inclusion, diversity and equity are a prominent and lived piece  of our culture as we firmly believe that inclusion and diversity  makes us a stronger team while enabling us to better deliver on  our Purpose of advancing the world of health ™.
Over the past five years, we’ve established and continually  invested in teams, processes, policies and programs to embed  inclusion and diversity in everything that we do, and we’re  committed to making sure that all BD associates, regardless of  where they come from, have a chance to succeed and realize  their full potential.
We’re building an inclusive environment  where people feel valued, have no fears speaking up and are  empowered to give their best.
Our associates come from all backgrounds, perspectives and  experiences.
The diversity of the teams working at BD  across the globe allows us to successfully meet the needs of   the ever-expanding global marketplace.
Additionally, our work and commitment to inclusion, diversity  and equity extends beyond the walls of our organization to  make an impact in the healthcare industry and communities  where we work and live.
We also influence and advocate for  more inclusive and equitable practices through global public  policy changes.
Because we foster inclusion and diversity within our company,  industry and communities, we’ve made significant progress  towards fulfilling our Purpose of advancing the world of health ™ —for all.
Key programs and achievements  We foster an inclusive environment where every associate has a  chance to succeed and realize their full potential, and we seek  out diverse perspectives because it drives innovation and is core  to our purpose and strategy.
• Nine associate resource groups (ARGs) provide professional  development opportunities.
• ARG-led global mentorship program was recognized by the  Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association as a 2020 winner of  its ACE Award.
• Our learning and development program, BD University,  provides career development resources, including accelerator  programs and career mapping guides.
• We facilitate ongoing dialog sessions to foster a speak-up  culture and provide educational resources.
Past discussions  have focused on timely topics, including racial injustice and  toxic masculinity.
• Leadership engagement through the Global Inclusion  Council, local inclusion and diversity champions and  ambassadors, and ARG sponsorships.• We drive accountability and monitor progress through  corporate-level goals, executive inclusion plans and Voice of  Associate surveys, among other methods.
• To bring the best talent and diverse perspectives to BD, we  initiate diversity recruiting efforts through the National Black  MBA Association, Society of Women Engineers, National  Sales Network, MVPvets, Skillbridge internships and Hiring  Our Heroes fellowships.Associate impact2020 goal Increase the diversity of our workplace, particularly in leadership roles Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance We advance inclusion and diversity within our marketplace,  industry and global communities to create opportunities for all.
• Membership in the AdvaMed Board’s Inclusion and Diversity  Committee and subcommittee • Collaborate with the Healthcare Businesswoman’s  Association and Society of Women Engineers to advocate for  women in the business of healthcare and in engineering  and technology• Implemented a supplier diversity program that ensures our  supply base aligns with the diverse customers and  communities we serve, as well as the diverse markets we seek • Annual participation in PRIDE events around the worldCommunity and industry impact We strive to be catalysts for change to bring about a more  equitable and just world.
• Members of Chief Executive for Corporate Purpose and The  New Jersey CEO Council • Advocate for LGBTQ+ inclusion through membership in the  Human Rights Campaign’s Business Coalition for the Equality  Act and OPEN for Business, and we endorsed the UN  Standards of Conduct to support LGBT+ individuals • Celebrated the landmark Supreme Court Title VII ruling that  protects LGBT workers in the U.S. from workplace discrimination  • Philanthropic contributions to nonprofits that:  – Broaden healthcare access among vulnerable populations,     including the BD Helping Build Healthy     Communities ™ Initiative  – Expand access to food, shelter, healthcare services, job     and skills training among diverse populations that are     being disproportionately impacted by COVID-19Societal impact Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance BD condemns the acts of racism and violence that have  occurred in the communities we call home.
The racial inequality  and injustice that’s taken place across the U.S. are inexplicable  as they are unacceptable.
Our commitment to our values—and our fundamental belief  that inclusion and diversity are essential to our purpose and our  strategy—compel us to speak up against racism, divisiveness  and hate, and to stand up as one BD in support of justice and  equity for all.The BD Purpose— advancing the world of health ™—reflects our  commitment to help everyone, everywhere in their pursuit for  better health and a better life.
We are proud that BD associates  come from all backgrounds and experiences, and firmly believe  BD is better because of this.
The summer of 2020 was a turning point for long overdue  change, and it was an opportunity for BD to learn, grow and to  come together.
This spotlight details a selection of our initiatives  in FY 2020 and through February 2021.Our commitment to racial justice, inclusion and diversity Spotlight—racial justice Fostering dialog: AABD fireside chat Following the senseless deaths of George Floyd and Breonna  Taylor, our Executive Leadership Team encouraged associates  not to shy away from conversations about what we all saw  happening.
Instead, associates were encouraged to ask  questions about diversity, belonging, inclusion and equity so we  can grow and learn from each other.
We began with a virtual discussion with Black senior leaders,  who spoke openly and candidly about their personal feelings,  emotions and experiences.
The event was a catalyst for a series of open dialog sessions on racial equity and justice to further  build our learning and growth together, and to drive better  awareness internally on these critical issues.
Subsequent discussions focused on topics such as combating  COVID-19-related racial bias against the Asian community,  exploring disparities and health impacts of COVID-19 in Black  and brown communities, and moving from intent to action  through allyship and advocacy, among others.
Encouraging learning: 21-day challenge In 2021, our African Americans at BD (AABD) ARG and Social  Investing team partnered to create an innovative and  educational way to raise awareness and understanding of social  and racial justice issues and continue advancing our culture  of inclusion.
Beginning on January 18, in celebration of Dr. Martin Luther  King Jr’s birthday, and running until February 15, in honor of  Black History Month, our associates could opt into a 21-day  Racial Equity and Social Justice Challenge.
Each day participants  would receive an email with articles, videos and interactive  content about racial inequities in areas including criminal justice  reform, education, healthcare and civic engagement.
The idea behind the challenge is that it takes 21 days to make a real  change in habits, and we saw it as an opportunity for associates  to begin what we hope will be a lifetime of learning.
We also hosted an online exchange featuring videos and posts  from associates as they participated in the challenge and  captured some of the pivotal moments of their awareness  building.
Associates could also share their personal stories and  learnings with the broader BD community.
This stimulated  conversations across BD and increased our collective  understanding of the challenges and barriers faced by many  of our colleagues and that we must all work together to  eliminate them.Standing united as one BD Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance  Spotlight—racial justice Virtual event series  BD has also hosted a number of virtual events and sessions for  associates.
During the U.S. election season, we hosted a free  screening of the documentary John Lewis: Good Trouble   focusing on the life of John Lewis and his lifelong work  advocating for voting rights for underserved and  underrepresented communities.
Guest speakers at our events included: • Dr. Gershom Williams, professor emeritus of African American  and United States history at Mesa Community College • Rep.
E.
G.
Butterfield (D-NC), House of Representatives  member representing eastern North Carolina and long-time  champion of the underprivileged• Dr. T.
Anthony Spearman, president of North Carolina NAACP • DeRay McKesson, acclaimed civil rights activist, podcaster,  and author of the critically acclaimed memoir, On the Other  Side of Freedom: The Case for Hope .
He is the co-founder of  Campaign Zero and host of the award-winning weekly  podcast Pod Save the People • Reverend Kenneth Clayton, president of the Paterson, New  Jersey chapter of NAACP • Helen Archontou, CEO of the YWCA Northern New Jersey Enacting change in our communities Because we expect unity, respect, fairness and inclusiveness in  our own organization, we also aspire to these same values in all  the countries and communities we operate in throughout the  world.
Recent efforts and charitable contributions include:  • Donating $10 for each participating associate in our 21-day  Racial Equity and Social Justice Challenge to nonprofit  organizations selected in partnership with the AABD ARG.
With the support of the nearly 6,000 associates around the  world who participated, BD donated a total of $60,000 to  Americares, the National Association for the  Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) , the Equal  Justice Initiative  and the UNCF ; • Participating in the “Stop Hate for Profit” campaign, pausing  advertising spend in July 2020; • Contributing more than $450,000 to nonprofit organizations  focused on inclusion, diversity, equity and justice, including a  $100,000 donation to the Equal Justice Initiative ;  • Committing $22.6 million through the year 2022 as part of  the BD Helping Build Healthy Communities ™ Initiative.
The contributions support Direct  Relief  and the  National  Association of Community Health Centers  in expanding  the innovative practices of U.S. community health centers, which collectively serve more than 30 million U.S. patients,  the majority of which are uninsured or underinsured.
This program targets its support on patients with  hypertension and diabetes, two health conditions that  disproportionately impact the Black community, based on  the social determinants of health; • Partnering with the UNCF to sponsor three scholarships for  the 2020–2021 academic year; • Supporting the expansion of evidence-based racial bias  training programs that educate parents, business owners and  community owners throughout New Jersey about key issues  that can help eliminate racism through a two-year donation  to the YWCA of Northern New Jersey ; and • Participating in the Chief Executives for Corporate  Purpose’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)  Accelerate Community , which hosts conversations about  philanthropic giving with an equity lens, and how to recruit  and retain diverse talent.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance In this section of the report, the total number of associates  being reported for FY 2020 is 72,077, which includes Bard  associates.
As part of the integration activities following the  acquisition of Bard, BD worked to incorporate Bard associates  into our single HR IT system.
FY 2019 is the first reporting year  to reflect this change in data.
All reporting data for years before  FY 2019 does not include Bard associates.In the chart below, “Other” is defined as people who do not  identify as those ethnicities listed below, or who identify as  more than one ethnicity, and “Unknown” indicates that   the associate chose not to answer.Demographic data FY 2020 worldwide associates by gender 49% Women51% Men 72,Total associates  FY 2020 Board of Directors—ethnicity Asian/Indian Black or African American Hispanic/Latino Other White Unknown 0Gender breakdown of the Board of Directors and executive officers Board of DirectorsWomen Executive Officers Officers 6Men 9* 10* *Includes Vincent A.
Forlenza, Chairman of the Board and former CEO.
GRI disclosure: 405-Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance For the following tables, the total number of associates for each disclosure in executive and management positions is noted  in the corresponding table.
Bard associates are included in FY 2019 and FY 2020 data.
Data in previous years has been restated due to improvements in data collection systems.
BD defines executives as those in VP, SVP or EVP roles.
Management positions are defined as those in manager, director or  equivalent roles.Executive and management positions Executive FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Female 22% 21% 23% 25% 27% Male 78% 79% 77% 75% 73% Total 303 280 283 354 364Executives and management positions by gender (worldwide) Management FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Female 37% 38% 39% 39% 39% Male 63% 62% 61% 61% 61% Total 7,271 7,364 7,736 10,086 10,Executive FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Under 35 0% 1% 0% 0% 0% 35–54 72% 70% 68% 72% 70% 55 and older 28% 29% 32% 28% 30% Total 303 280 283 354 364Executive and management positions by age (worldwide) Management FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Under 35 11% 11% 11% 11% 11% 35–54 72% 72% 72% 72% 72% 55 and older 17% 17% 17% 17% 17% Total 7,271 7,364 7,736 10,086 10,GRI disclosure: 405-Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Executive FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Asian/Indian 9% 11% 10% 10% 11% Black or African  American2% 3% 2% 3% 4% Hispanic/Latino 2% 3% 4% 4% 5% Not disclosed 5% 2% 3% 3% 5% Other 0% 1% 1% 1% 1% White 82% 81% 80% 78% 75% Total 243 225 225 291 293Executive and management positions by ethnicity (U.S. only) Management FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Asian/Indian 14% 15% 15% 14% 14% Black or African  American3% 4% 4% 3% 4% Hispanic/Latino 5% 7% 7% 8% 8% Not disclosed 4% 2% 4% 4% 5% Other 3% 2% 2% 2% 2% White 71% 71% 69% 69% 67% Total 4,578 4,558 4,704 6,028 6,GRI disclosure: 405-1Ethnicity data reflects that of the U.S. workforce including Alaska and Hawaii, and Puerto Rico but excludes any other U.S. territories.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance FY 2016 * FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Under 35 33% 34% 35% 38% 37% 35–54 48% 52% 52% 50% 50% 55 and older 12% 13% 13% 12% 13% Total 50,920 46,641 48,473 70,200 72,*In FY 2016, age was not disclosed for 7% of the dataset.Associates by age (worldwide) FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Asian/Indian 13% 13% 13% 11% 11% Black or African  American7% 8% 8% 9% 9% Hispanic/Latino 13% 16% 16% 16% 16% Not disclosed 4% 3% 7% 8% 9% Other 3% 2% 2% 2% 2% White 59% 58% 55% 55% 53% Total 18,392 22,944 23,790 24,220 24,Ethnicity data reflects that of the U.S. workforce including Alaska and Hawaii, and Puerto Rico but excludes any other U.S. territories.Associates by ethnicity (U.S. only)For the following tables, the total number of associates for each disclosure is noted in the corresponding table.
Bard  associates are included in FY 2019 and FY 2020 data.
Data in previous years has been restated due to improvements in data collection systems.
Workforce includes all associates, both management and non-management.Associate positions Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Female 36% 14% 13% 26% 27% Male 23% 13% 12% 23% 26% The way BD reports this metric has changed.
The new metric calculates the rate at which employee start working for the organization as a percentage of average  headcount, during the period (e.g. Female new hire rate = Female new hire count/Avg headcount of female employees).
In the past, this metric was reported as  count of new hires (by category)/total headcount.
As a result, all data has been restated to reflect this new metric.
New hire rate by gender (worldwide) FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Under 35 36% 28% 19% 32% 43% 35–54 14% 14% 8% 11% 13% 55 and older 16% 19% 11% 11% 13% By turnover we mean the percentage of employees who exited voluntarily or involuntarily during the period.
The way BD reports this metric has changed.
This new  metric is calculated using the number of employees who exited divided by the Average Headcount for the analysis period (e.g. Under 35 Turnover rate = count of  Under 35 who exited/average headcount).
As a result, all data has been restated to reflect this new metric.Turnover rate by age (worldwide)FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Under 35 49% 26% 24% 48% 50% 35–54 13% 8% 7% 12% 13% 55 and older 6% 3% 3% 5% 6% The way BD reports this metric has changed.
The new metric calculates the rate at which employee start working for the organization as a percentage of average  headcount, during the period (e.g. Under 35 new hire rate = Under 35 new hire count/Avg headcount of Under 35 employees).
In the past, this metric was  reported as count of new hires (by category)/total headcount.
As a result, all data has been restated to reflect this new metric.
New hire rate by age (worldwide) GRI disclosures: 401-1, 405-FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 BD + Bard FY 2020 BD + Bard Female 33% 32% 15% 21% 26% Male 21% 21% 11% 17% 23% By turnover we mean the percentage of employees who exited voluntarily or involuntarily during the period.
The way BD reports this metric has changed.
This new  metric is calculated using the number of employees who exited divided by the Average Headcount for the analysis period (e.g. Female Turnover rate = count of  Females who exited / average headcount).
As a result, all data has been restated to reflect this new metric.Turnover rate by gender (worldwide) GRI disclosure: 401-Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance At BD, we continuously drive the implementation and execution  of programs that will keep our associates safe.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, we redoubled our efforts to  ensure the safety of our associates and business continuity.
This work meant undertaking major new initiatives, such as:  • Institutionalizing the use of additional layers of PPE while  simultaneously ensuring we have access to a continuous  supply of PPE; • Redesigning our facilities and process flows to minimize  transmission of the virus; • Conducting effective contact tracing and investigations  through systematic methodologies; • Rolling out educational campaigns to modify behavior inside  and outside facilities to reduce transmission; and • Conducting COVID-19 testing in locations where community  spikes have impacted our facilities.
Although maintaining the safety of our associates during the  pandemic has been our priority, our planned improvements also  moved forward, strengthening our organization and assisting in  keeping our workforce safe.
In FY 2020, we continued to solidify  and streamline our standards and practices across 80+ facilities  with focus on sites gained through recent acquisitions.
The continued establishment of governance platforms drove  this work.
The Global EHS Advisory Council, with representation  from all BD businesses, provided a unified direction in establishing global objectives and strong collaboration efforts  across the organization to streamline efforts and work  as one team.
Furthermore, in FY 2020, the BD EHS team implemented its   new risk-based audit model, which gauges facilities on three  main components: inherit risk, changes and performance.
This enabled a more deliberate focus for selection of sites to be  audited during the year.
This new model was launched during  the pandemic, which added a layer of complexity by shifting the  audit model to a virtual one.
With a shift to virtual audits and a  transformation of methodologies to address this new platform,  we were able to continue to audit facilities to ensure an effective  level of governance oversight and address these new challenges  during these unprecedented times.
BD continues to reinforce systems that strengthen our goal to  drive a culture in which the health and well-being of our  associates, visitors and contractors are an integral part of every  decision we make.
Instrumental in this vision is the continuation  of programs that drive management and leadership  engagement, peer-to-peer coaching, and education  and training.
For further details about our EHS management programs,  please see EHS management in the Efficiency  section of  this report.
In FY 2020, there were no fatalities.2020 goal Achieve best-in-class safety performance GRI disclosure: 403-9FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY LTIFR* per 200,000 hours worked 0.29 0.32 0.26 0.24 0.OIFR† per 200,000 hours worked 0.004 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.Occupational IIR‡ rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.51 0.Data provided reflects manufacturing sites only.
FY 2008 to FY 2017, excludes Bard.
*Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) †Occupational illness frequency rate (OIFR) ‡Injury and illness rate (IIR) There have been no fatalities since FY 2014.
Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Charitable giving summary, by the numbers: FY 2020Social Investing First grants issued by BD Foundation The BD Foundation was established in 2016 as a private 501(c)3 organization, with the goal of expanding and strengthening  the consistency of our ability to make strategic, multiyear, global philanthropic investments in initiatives that expand  healthcare access, advance human potential and support resilient communities.
The BD Foundation issued its first grants in  2020 to Direct Relief in support of the BD Helping Build Healthy Communities ™ Initiative and to multiple philanthropic  partners in support of global COVID-19 relief efforts.
Total cash donations $9.9 million Total product donations $12.6 million Value of company match to associate donations $1.8 million Number of grants issued, worldwide Number of nonprofit beneficiaries Number of matching gifts distributed 26,FY 2020 cash contributionsFY 2020 charitable giving summary *Includes matching gifts and contributions from individual BD locations.
†Includes $540,000 for COVID-19 emergency relief.
‡Includes basic needs/hometown giving.
§Includes care for the uninsured/underinsured, diabetes and prevention, global health, infection prevention, maternal and newborn health, vaccine preventable    diseases, women’s health, cancer and other health.$12.6 million   Product donations$338,000   Volunteering – pro bono   hours donated$32,000   Skills-based volunteering $9.9 million   Cash donations * $22.6 million Total contributions   (cash and product) $310,000   Arts and culture $4.2 million   Health and human services  §$1.5 million   Civic and social welfare‡$400,000   Disaster relief $2 million   Education$1.4 million   Other† $9.9 million   Total cash contributions Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Community health centers are on the front lines, every day,  providing lifesaving care to more than 30 million people in  vulnerable rural and urban communities across the  United States.
Without these community-based “family doctors,”   millions of uninsured and underinsured patients would go   without healthcare.
Implemented in partnership with Direct Relief and the National  Association of Community Health Centers, the BD Helping Build  Healthy Communities ™ Initiative awards grants to community health centers, to support the implementation of innovative  approaches to meeting the unique healthcare needs of local,  underserved and vulnerable populations.
Since this program’s inception in 2013, and through 2022,   BD and the BD Foundation have together committed to invest  $22.6 million in this initiative, which clinical data predicts will  have a meaningful impact on the grant winners’ ability to  expand access to quality patient care, particularly among  patients experiencing diabetes, hypertension, depression and  difficulty with medication compliance.
Expanding healthcare access in the United States2020 goal Partner with nonprofits to address unmet healthcare needs, locally and globally BD Helping Build Healthy Communities ™ Initiative BD Helping Build Healthy Communities ™ Initiative, by the numbers Product donations have  reached 400,000 patients .
Health outcomes of 65,000 patients  have  been improved through our cash support.BD has provided Direct Relief with more than 38 million insulin  syringes  and 743,000 pen needles , valued at $11.2 million .
48 grants , totaling $6.7 million , have been issued  to community health centers in 20 states .These items have been distributed to  1,400 community health centers,  free clinics and community clinics in  all 50 states and Puerto Rico .
BD investment, 2013 to 2022   $22.6 million Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance In response to the success of the BD Helping Build Healthy  Communities ™ Initiative, and to reach an even broader at-risk  population, BD worked with the National Association of Free  and Charitable Clinics (NAFC) to introduce three companion  programs in 2017, which support free and charitable clinics.
The BD Continuity of Care Mini-Grant  Program , implemented in partnership with  Direct Relief  and  NAFC , provides member  organizations with cash grants to support  critically needed healthcare programs for medically underserved  patients.
From FY 2018 to FY 2021, BD and Direct Relief  committed $515,000 in grants to 24 NAFC member  organizations in 14 states.
The BD Advancing Community Health: Driving  Quality Outcomes—Patient-Centered Medical  Home (PCMH) Program , co-developed with  Americares , provides grant funding to help free  clinics achieve the National Committee for Quality  Assurance (NCQA) quality standard for a patient-centered  medical home.
Since 2017, BD has invested $760,000 to support  six free, charitable and hybrid clinics in five states in their efforts  to work toward NCQA certification; and has donated $5 million  worth of diabetes care products to Americares for distribution to  the U.S. free clinics.
The Advancing Community Health—   Point-of-Care (POC) Enhancing Clinical  Effectiveness Award,  co-developed with  Heart to Heart International  and NAFC ,  provides essential, diagnostic point-of-care testing equipment,  supplies and quality controls to help free clinics effectively  administer and share the results of diagnostic tests during a  single medical visit.
Since FY 2017, BD has committed $1.8  million to this program and deployed 12 associate volunteers   to provide free lab training to 15 free clinics.Expanding on program success In recognition of our centennial anniversary in 1997,  BD co-founded its first signature philanthropic  program, supporting UNICEF’s Maternal and  Neonatal Tetanus Elimination (MNTE) Initiative   worldwide.
The initiative seeks to reduce annual neonatal tetanus  incidence through vaccinating pregnant women and women of  reproductive age, promoting clean delivery practices, such as  umbilical cord cutting, and utilizing surveillance to enhance health  professionals’ understanding of the circumstances under which  cases can occur.
Between 2000 and 2018, the World Health  Organization estimates deaths from neonatal tetanus had  dropped by 88%.
BD has committed $14.8 million in cash and  products to this initiative, through 2025.
Reducing maternal mortality and delivery  complications in Zambia Since 2014, BD has committed more than  $675,000 in cash to support CMMB’s Children   and Mothers Partnership Program  in delivering  high-impact interventions to address the high  rates of maternal mortality, HIV infection and delivery  complications in Zambia.
This program has enabled CMMB to  continue to deliver healthcare interventions, including safe  motherhood, community-led total sanitation, integrated  community case management, maternal, adolescent and young  child nutrition, and community-based growth monitoring  and promotion.
Bringing free, safe surgery to those in need Each year, 18.6 million people die due to lack of access to surgical  care, 93% of whom are in Africa.
As COVID-19 threatens the  stability of already fragile healthcare systems globally, the need  to provide basic lifesaving care is greater than ever, especially in  low- to middle-income countries.
Over the past 25 years, BD has donated more  than $1.5 million in cash and products  to   Mercy Ships  to support its mission of bringing free,  safe surgical care to those in need.
To celebrate our 25th  anniversary of supporting Mercy Ships,  BD committed $1 million  ($750,000 in cash and $250,000 in products) over three years   (FY 2020 to FY 2022)  to help Mercy Ships double its surgical and  training capacity via the Global Mercy ™, a new ship that will  primarily serve patients in Africa.
BD committed $500,000 in cash and products  over two years  to the RCI University of Medicine  and Health Science, Ireland , to support the launch  of the KidSURG initiative, a pediatric surgical network that seeks  to expand surgical access to 8 million children in Malawi.Eliminating maternal and neonatal tetanus worldwide Expanding healthcare access globally Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance For more than a decade, BD has partnered with international relief agencies, including the American Red Cross, Direct Relief,  AmeriCares, MAP International, CMMB, and Heart to Heart International to deploy product donations and cash support quickly  and efficiently to the people and communities who need them most, both for the management of chronic disease and during  times of disaster.
Disaster response and strategic product donation * Includes $540,000 for COVID-19 emergency relief.
† In response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Of that $2.8 million, $540,000 was donated by BD.
‡ $2.5 million reflects the combined COVID-19 philanthropic donations made by BD and the BD Foundation in FY 2020.
Our philanthropic response to COVID-19 ($540,000)  is reported in the category “Other” in the BD Cash Contributions chart on page 107.
More detail regarding BD and the BD Foundation’s philanthropic response to the  COVID-19 pandemic is included on page 20 of this report.Our total FY 2020 product  donations worldwide were valued at   $12.6 millionFrom FY 2016 to FY 2020, our product   donations worldwide were valued at   $53.5 million From 2015 to 2020, BD issued $6.7 million * in cash donations to support our nonprofit partners in building the resiliency of  communities worldwide as they have worked to recover from some of the most significant disasters of the decade.
2020 2015 2017 2018 2019$250,Hurricane Joaquin $25,U.S. wildfires $80,Nepal earthquake$250,Hurricane Maria $50,Ebola response in  Democratic Republic   of Congo$25,Kerala floods$200,Hurricane Florence$300,California wildfires $100,Hurricane Dorian$25,Australian bushfires$50,Puerto Rico  earthquake $160,Hurricane Laura,  Hurricane Sally,   U.S. wildfires$2,800,Pandemic response†,‡ Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance Helping eradicate polio… In 2018, BD donated 20 million auto-disable  syringes, valued at $1 million, to Rotary  International, a nonprofit organization dedicated  to tackling the world’s most pressing humanitarian  challenges, in support of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative.
More than six decades prior, in 1954, BD donated 1 million of  the first sterile disposable syringes for the Salk polio vaccine  field trials in the U.S., which inoculated nearly 1 million school  children known as “Polio Pioneers.”Helping children learn to manage type 1 diabetes… Since 2011, BD has donated nearly $2.4 million  worth of syringes to 10,000 children with type 1  diabetes in 20 under-resourced countries through  Direct Relief and the Life for a Child program.
Since 2015, BD has donated $3.5 million in insulin  syringes, pen needles, swabs and lancets to 200+  summer camps for children with type 1 diabetes    via Direct Relief.Increasing the strategic nature of product donation BD plans to expand this approach to virtual volunteerism in  2021 and beyond.
We are also creating new virtual volunteerism  partnerships with Operation Smile and the National Association  of Free Clinics.From 2015–2020, BD significantly evolved its approach to medical product donation.
First, by aligning with our sustainability  commitment to reduce waste and by making a concerted effort to ensure that an increasing percentage of product overruns and  other non-saleable products were targeted for donation to communities in need.
And second, by strategically partnering with  nonprofit organizations to direct more of our product donations to programs that help combat humanitarian challenges and help  patients better manage chronic conditions.
Key examples of our strategic product donations over the past six years include: 2020 performance highlights BD encourages associates from around the world to join together to serve their local communities through volunteerism—with the  goal of bringing our values to life, while making a meaningful difference in the communities where we live and work.
BD Volunteer Service Trip Program Having celebrated its 15th year in 2020, the BD Volunteer  Service Trip (VST) Program sends teams of BD associates to  low-resource countries to help strengthen local health systems  through training, education, laboratory services and  construction projects.
This program enables BD associates to  share their knowledge and expertise, enabling them to live the  company Purpose of advancing the world of health ™.
The onset  of COVID-19 in 2020 made it impossible for BD volunteers to  participate in inter-country travel.
In response, BD developed  new virtual skills-based volunteer opportunities to keep  associates engaged to maintain our culture of service.
During 2020, BD virtual volunteers: • Delivered COVID-19 infection prevention  training to healthcare workers in partnership  with Heart to Heart International • Helped community health centers expand  access to healthcare via telehealth technology,  together with the National Association of  Community Health Centers and Pyxera  Global .
2020 goal Drive social impact and associate engagement through volunteer programs Access Innovation Efficiency Empowerment Governance These global awards celebrate the outstanding and creative  volunteer service of BD associates and retirees.
In 2020, BD  awarded grants totaling $80,000 to 13 nonprofit organizations around the world, recognizing the community service of   13 associates from six countries.
Since 2013, in recognition of the   Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service,   BD associates from more than a dozen locations  across the United States have joined together to  pack shelf-stable meals for Rise Against Hunger, to be delivered to hungry  and food-insecure people around the world.
In 2020, BD volunteers  reached their ambitious goal and packed their one millionth meal for Rise  Against Hunger.BD Volunteer Service Trips by the numbers 15 years  of  volunteer service trips262  BD volunteers From 89  BD  sites, globally33  country locations Henry P .
Becton Volunteer Impact Awards Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service In 2020, BD collaborated with the Planet Water  Foundation to celebrate World Water Day for the  third consecutive year.
While COVID-19 kept BD from  deploying BD volunteers to participate, BD funding  enabled Planet Water to install two AquaTower  systems, including 12 handwashing points that provided clean, safe drinking  water to 3,600 children and community members in Aguascalientes, Mexico.
Since 2018, BD funding has empowered 33 BD volunteers to bring clean water  to up to 12,600 children and community members in five countries through  the installation of seven AquaTower systems.
World Water Day BD matches charitable donations to eligible nonprofit  organizations, up to $5,000 per associate, per year.
In FY 2020,  BD matched 26,000 donations to eligible 501(c)(3) organizations, for a total investment of $1.8 million.
From FY 2015 to FY 2020,  BD matched more than $8.8 million in associate donations.BD Matching Gift Program Awards, recognitions and affiliations Corporate recognition FTSE4 Good Index since FORTUNE ’s 2020 World’s Most Admired Companies List FORTUNE ’s 2020 Change the World list Newsweek ’s America’s Most Responsible Companies List Innovation Top 100 Global Innovator–Clarivate Efficiency U.S. EPA Green Power Partner U.S. EPA SmartWay® Transport Partner Empowerment One of the best companies in Brazil (Brazil)  Best Companies to Work for in Brazil–Health Sector (Brazil)  Top Employer 2021 (Africa)  Top Employer 2021 (China)  2021 Goodness award (China)  PRC 70 Years Healthcare Special Contribution Enterprise Award (China)  2020 Outstanding Contribution Award to Anti-Epidemic (China) Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality-The Human Rights Campaign Foundation 2021 Gender-Equality Index (GEI)–Bloomberg  Best Places to Work for Women in 2020–Great Place to Work (Argentina) BD, Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417, U.S. bd.comBD, the BD Logo, AccuCath Ace, Advancing the world of health, Alaris, AllPoints, Arctic Sun, AutoGuard, BD Helping Build Healthy Communities,  Caterpillar, Cato, ChloraPrep, ChloraShield, CLiC, COR, Covera, EleVation, FACSCelesta, FACSDuet, FACSLyric, FACSMelody, FACSymphony, FlowSmart,  HealthSight, Horizon Brilliant, Insyte, Intelliport, Intevia, Intima II Plus, Kiestra, LifeStent, Lutonix, MAX, MedMined, Nano, Onclarity, OptiBuild,  OptiFix, Pegasus Plus, PhaSeal, Phoenix, PowerMidline, Precise, Provena, PureWick, PurPrep, Pyxis, Rhapsody, Rowa, SupplyStation, Synapsys, Totalys,  UltraSafe Plus, UltraTouch, Vacutainer, Venflon, Venovo, Veritor and WavelinQ are trademarks of Becton, Dickinson and Company or its affiliates.
All  other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
© 2021 BD.
All rights reserved.
5848 (06/21)To find out more about sustainability at BD or to provide feedback on our reporting,   please contact  BD_Sustainability_ Office@bd.com Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements involve risks  and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements.
Forward-looking  statements may be identified by the use of words such as “plan,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “will,” “may,” “anticipate,” estimate,” “target,” and  other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future operations and financial performance and strategy  for growth, future product development, regulatory approvals, competitive position and expenditures.
Forward-looking statements are, and will be,  based on management’s then-current views and assumptions regarding future events, developments and operating performance, and speak only  as of their dates.
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond the company’s control, including without limitation, challenges relating to  economic, competitive, governmental, and technological factors affecting our operations, markets, and products, and other factors listed in our  2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC.
BD expressly disclaims any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking  statements set forth herein to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, except as required by applicable law or regulation.
